(dramatic music) - [Narrator] Arizona Territory, 1879. The Mescalero Apaches led by Victorio, the proudest and fiercest fled from the San Carlos Reservation. Once more they would wage war against the men who had dared Company B, United States Cavalry, the men who were desperately back onto the reservation. - Pick it up, pick it up! Come on, look alive! Look alive! (bright music) Come on, pick 'em up, boys, pick 'em up! Captain Green! - Captain Green, I'm Jeff Stanton. - [Green] Captain. - Some orders for you. - Being relieved of my command. Well, good luck, you're welcome to 'em. - Where are the rest of your men? - Well, they're dead. Three weeks we've been with those Indians. Every time we get close to 'em, they, they hit and run and we're - They're at home here, Captain. Just like you'll be back in St. Louis. - I'd be glad to see it. After this miserable place. The men and horses are tired, - Not as hard as Victorio's - I haven't given him time - They don't need it, an and live on nothin' but We'll have to do the same thing, if we're ever gonna catch up with him. - I don't envy you, Captain. These are General Crook's I hope someday you get a Sergeant Cobb! - Captain Stanton is taking command. - [Cobb] Very good, sir. - Well, Captain, they're all - I'll need it. (dramatic music) - Take care of yourself, Sergeant. - Yes, sir. - How are you, Sergeant? - Good to see you again, - That it has. Have the men dismount. Prepare! Yes, ho! - Men, my name is Stanton! The mission of this Find the Apaches, and to do that, we're gonna have to cover as sleep as little as they To do that, we'll have to travel light. Get rid of those bed rolls, Sergeant, you've got five - Yes, sir. Alright, you men, you heard the captain! Get a move on! (soldier speaks Spanish) What's that you say, Ramirez? - I said, Capitan Stanton, - Yeah, well he doesn't - No? Let me tell you somethin'. I fought the Sous with him. He can outfight, outride or the likes the two of you. - What's he buckin' for? - His father trusted the You know, they slaughtered a court martial and he was - Yeah and the captain's been tryin' to make up for it. Killin' Indians. We're ready to move out, sir. We'll save these horses We'll proceed on foot. (moody orchestral music) Troopers! Fall into horse, forward! Steadily! March! (rousing orchestral music) (dramatic orchestral music) (somber orchestral music) A small raiding party, sir. - Small raiding party, two but chase small raiding parties. - We're gonna have to turn back, sir. The men and horses can't - Pick your burial detail, Sergeant. - Yes, sir. Morgan, Devot! Break out a couple of shovels! (moody orchestral music) - Well, Corporal? The tracks lead southwest. - About a half-hour, would you say? (Ramirez speaks Spanish) - See, the edges are still sharp. The wind hasn't rounded them off yet. Half-hour is just about right. - Sergeant Cobb! - I wanna try something different. Pick six of your best riflemen, issue them 50 rounds of ammo, put 'em in that supply wagon, tell 'em to keep their heads down. You'll be in charge of the detail. - And where are you gonna be, sir? - I won't be far away, Sergeant. - Yes, sir. You, bring a carbine. You. You. (suspenseful orchestral music) (Apaches howl) (dramatic orchestral music) (Apaches howl) Alright, you saddle busters, on your feet! (guns fire) (Apaches howl) (Apache speaks Spanish) (gun fires) (guns fire) (Apache howls) (guns fire) (Apache screams) (guns fire) Hold your fire! - [Stanton] How many men - [Cobb] None, sir, only three wounded. - Any of them alive, Hogan? These Apaches rather - Capitan, this one is still alive. (ominous tones) No, Capitan. This is Red Hawk, Victorio's son. - Are you sure? - He's Victorio's only son. Be careful what you say. He went to mission - All my people understand You are like a wolf who moves among sheep. Killing for the pleasure of it. - I have orders to talk to your father. - You expect me to tell so you can kill them? - Sergeant? - I want a white flag - [Cobb] Yes, sir. - My father will not any more than he will - Flag's not the bait, Red Hawk. You are. (moody orchestral music) You and I both know there's an Apache face behind every rock out there. And if I'm wrong, then Just about three hours of this sun is all any animal will be able to take. (Red Hawk spits) (Red Hawk grunts) (ominous music) (Ramirez sighs) - What's he waiting for? Why doesn't he kill him - Sometimes the ends justify the means. (suspenseful orchestral music) - Captain! Over there. The flag of truce. - Yeah, I know, been watchin' Sergeant Cobb? - cut him down. - Dress his wound, give him some water, tie his hands behind his Corporal, get that flag, - Yes, sir. - Captain, you're not just the two of ya? - Why not? If Victorio doesn't go 100 men couldn't help us. (rousing orchestral music) (Victorio speaks Spanish) Well, translate. - Yes, sir, but I don't think... - My father said your is well known here, Captain. - Tell the great Victorio from General Crook. (Ramirez speaks Spanish) (Victorio speaks Spanish) - He wants you to release his son, sir, before he listens to - Cut him loose. - Sir, if you do, we'll - We have to show good faith Cut him loose. - Yes, sir. (horse neighs) (Red Hawk speaks Spanish) (Victorio speaks Spanish) (Victorio speaks Spanish) No need to translate - Tell him General Crook wants him to lead his people back and he's to keep the (Ramirez speaks Spanish) (Victorio speaks Spanish) - &quot;It was not I who - General Crook knows that. The men responsible will be punished. Tell him that a new Indian (Ramirez speaks Spanish) - And what of the gold seekers? The general said they but they did. Your people broke the - If you lay down your arms I promise I'll run the never let them return. (Ramirez speaks Spanish) (Victorio speaks Spanish) - [Ramirez] &quot;Do you promise?&quot; - You say my reputation's well known here. Then you know I keep my word. (Ramirez speaks Spanish) (Victorio speaks Spanish) - No! - [Ramirez] He said they'll go back, sir, when they see the miners - Agreed. (chatter in Spanish) Tell him we're takin' the - We hold no woman prisoner, Captain. - We're takin' you with us, ma'am. - By force, Captain? They won't stop us if we - You don't understand, - You're not here by your own these, these dog-eaters? - If your kind hadn't driven they would've have to eat what they did. - Look, who are you anyway, what are you? - My name is Gillis. I'm a missionary from - A missionary. Huh, well, so civilization That's a big job for a - My work was going very well, until we were forced off the reservation. - You wouldn't have thought been with me and seen those - Have you ever seen an Apache woman after your civilized Have you ever heard their - God. The only god they know is war. - What makes you think from the one who watches over them? - Miss Gillis. I wonder who's converting who. Tell him the miners will within three days. (Ramirez speaks Spanish) (moody orchestral music) Let's go. - Do you trust the captain? Do you believe he spoke the truth? - He thinks Indians are - You did not answer. Do you trust him? - I don't know, how can you trust anyone that has so much hate for our people? (horse neighs) - Alright, soldier, back into bed. - Damned Indians. - You know, Captain, I've cut time and it's the strange their skins, their insides - Is that so? Now, what's that supposed to mean? - You come on over here, I'll to dilute some of that bile You know, before you got here, worrying about having so But you changed all that. It's not that I sleep any harder, but uh, you at least keep me better - If you can think of a I'll listen. - Well, I was wonderin' Keepin' the peace, hm. Well, you're not your father's I knew him pretty well. - You didn't tell me that. - No, but uh, I did. And even after the disgrace he still believed that - Just goes to show he was a hard-headed, stubborn man that wouldn't face reality. - Reality can be a point of view. - Mm-hm. I'll drink to that. Doc, know anything about a - Well, now if you're thinking They only take girls. (moody orchestral music) - [Narrator] Captain Stanton from the reservation. The miners felt that the gave them the rights to the mountains. But with the captain ready the Arizona territory settled (ominous tones) - You men dismount and - [Cobb] Yes, sir. - Victorio and his son, Red Hawk. - It's an honor to have New Indian agents aren't usually accepted. They have to make their friends. - Victorio only speaks Spanish, - [Agent] I can handle this, Captain. It seems your presence is resented here. (speaks Spanish) (speaks Spanish) Thompson. (Victorio speaks Spanish) (upbeat orchestral music) (children yell over each other) (Gillis speaks Spanish) - It's amazing what a full and water can do, isn't it, Captain? - Yes, ma'am. It sure is. - Well, you mean I almost I'm sorry, I didn't mean that. - [Jeff] I deserved it. - I really do wanna thank you for the food and clothing you brought. But you know, there's still - What's that? - Well, we need writing slates, books to read and some Bibles. - Bibles, for Apaches? - You still don't - Oh, yes, I understand You were sent here by the school. - No. My father's beliefs brought me here. He was an Indian agent and fighting for their cause. He found he could do nothing for the people he considered his friends. You don't believe these do you, Captain? - No. - Well, you're wrong. After my father's death I stayed But it didn't take me they needed more than food and clothing. So, I decided to go to missionary school. When I graduated, I asked I've been here now almost six months. They accept me, it makes me very proud. - [Cobb] Captain Stanton? Supplies are unloaded, we're - Very well, Sergeant. You'll be staying here at the agency? - Oh, yes, where they live, I live. - I'll see that you get those supplies. Especially the Bibles. - Thank you. (moody orchestral music) - [Cobb] Detail, move out! - I could not help overhearing. You left out half of your story. The best half. - I know. I'm not ashamed that my (dramatic music) (bell tolls) - What do ya know? Just like the last two Sundays. And he's right on time for the sermon. - I hear the preacher's You listen, it might do you some good. - You think so? - Well, if it ain't the female do-gooder! - You didn't even hear that. - How is livin' with them Apache bucks? Most white women can't (thud) (solemn organ music) - I'm sorry about that. - Dawn, what do you care what they say? - Take me back, please. - I don't understand you. You expect me to carry you groceries to you and you don't Now, as of, shut that door! And you, Hodges. As of now, you're down Wilson, 560. You, Black, $225. And Miller, Miller, - Did you call us in here to - I don't owe you nothin', for a grubstake, for - That's right, a grubstake! You're right, I grubstaked you might make, and some of - I was so close to that - [Investor] So far, I for the money I spent backing you men. - How do you expect us to pay won't let us anywhere near That land belonged to us - That's right. Why don't we take the government to court? - Let the case drag through - Alright, then why don't into that captain's head, - [Investor] I've tried that. - [Hodges] What about - [Investor] Alright, Shut the door! - Well, it's a little bit hard said, Mr. Owens, there's more - What do you mean, Greer? Well, what happened? - I just had my teeth chipped by a captain of the United States - Any witnesses? - Men like Stanton are but we're no longer at war. In our peaceful territory, the the dignity of the individual Right, men? - I'll send those exact words If the territorial delegate we'll be back in those (men chatter) - The issue is whether or not methods of this Captain General, the rights of our above all others, even of every Indian in the southwest. - The delegate from that the Indian does not - I am not, sir, but I of your duty to honest, God-fearing men, who have gone forth to what was just a short And I assure you, if we Arizona will turn again into a wilderness. - It is certainly not the exterminate the Apache. But there may be Since we have declared of Captain Stanton do seem out of place. I will have the matter taken - Thank you, sir. (moody orchestral music) - [Narrator] With the delegate and the gold that they knew miners were in open defiance (explosion booms) (Red Hawk speaks Spanish) (miner coughs) - Hey. (miner coughs) Gold! I told ya, didn't I? That's the richest rock I ever did see. - Look at that. I'll get the sacks. We'll carry as much of - That vein is two-feet-high. Ya-oh! (ominous orchestral music) Greer. (suspenseful orchestral music) (gun fires) (gun fires) - Wait a minute! Don't shoot him! - Gold. Almost pure. It's richer than ours. Lookie that. - &quot;Both the shots and the blasting &quot;came from the deep canyon &quot;between here and patrol camp five.&quot; - Patrol camp five? - We're closer to it than they are. Come on. (ominous orchestral music) - Where'd you get this, boy? Where'd you get it? You'll be glad to talk when Stupid Indian. What do you want with gold? Why don't you tell us? - You'll talk, or lose all your skin. (tense orchestral music) - [Cobb] Don't do it! - Throw them up here. (guns thud) (dramatic orchestral music) Next time, I'll use the edge. - We found gold, Captain. I tell you, right in there, we found gold. - You found nothin' but trouble. - That claim's been You got no right to come in here! You got no right, I tell ya! (moody orchestral music) - Sergeant? - Take Red Hawk in the infirmary. - No! - Have the doc take care I'll take those two into town. - [Man] What right have you to - Yeah, what right? - My orders are to keep - Indian-lover, huh? - Sheriff, we're putting - Look, Captain, I can't arrest these men just for bein' on that land. - Maybe not, but we sure - They've been doing it to us for years! Now it's time we paid 'em back! (townsfolk murmur) - [Man] I saw them torture a woman, too! - Simmer down, simmer down, boys. Captain here's only doing his duty. Just as the sheriff is doing his. Now, if these men have done wrong, they must have a court trial. Sheriff, book and hold these men. That is, until bail is furnished. - Alright. Alright, Captain, I'll - Who can blame the boys for being a little short-tempered, Captain? - I'm warning you, keep They're not healthy. - Are you threatenin' us, Captain? - No, I'm not. I'm just wondering how when he finds out what - Alright, boys, let's go. - [Delegate] George, - I thought you told us - He is, only he don't know it. Colonel Perry rode through - Captain. Where's Red Hawk? - Oh, funny thing about that blistered just like yours would - Never mind the lecture, where is he? - Gone, right after I received orders to get his red carcass out of here. - Who gave you that order? - Colonel Nathan Perry, - How many men at this post, Sergeant? - Five, sir. - For a total at all outposts of... - Captain Stanton reporting, sir. - Oh, yes, Stanton. Glad you were able to Be with you in a moment. For a total of, uh, almost three troops. Was the disposition of the outpost patrols your idea, Captain? Outpost patrol all passes - [Nathan] The men entrusted spread out over an area of Is that correct? - What do you suppose would've to break out of the reservation in force? - I don't think you have - They would've been massacred, sir. Slaughtered without a Sergeant, do I understand when that you can send heliograph - That's right, sir. - Then flash this signal at to break camp and return here immediately. - Yes, sir. - In case of an uprising, mobile fighting unit ready as I did against the Kiowas. - Colonel, an Apache is 10 The Apache looks on war - [Nathan] Exactly, and how if your squadron's spread - I don't think there'll be any guarding the reservation against Victorio's no saint if we'll keep ours. - The last time I heard an officer express such a ridiculous opinion, were slaughtered two days later. I'm sure you know the officer If I hadn't been assigned as junior officer, I - As I'm being relieved, Colonel, may I have a copy of my orders? - Yes, Captain. You will remain on here as my adjutant. Have your orderly gather Good day, sir. - [Narrator] The Colonel's The outposts were called (suspenseful orchestral music) - Captain Stanton? All the patrols are on their way in, sir. - Very well, Sergeant. Can I say just one word off the record? - What is it? - Sir, I've been in the but of all the back-bitin', connivin' politic that I And after all you done to - I suppose the men all feel the same way? - Yes, sir, they sure do. - Well, let me tell you If I ever hear you or any against our commanding by the heels to the nearest - Yes, sir. - Now get ready to stand inspection. - Yes, sir. Detail, ho! - Yes, sir, I'll tell you, it stinks. The whole thing just stinks. The army's outta the way. But I can't send men and Those Indians would be - We got the richest strike I ever seen, and we can't work it. - I tell you, I'm sick of talk! - What about the Indian agent? - Oh, I've tried for the last three months to make friends with him. He's not like the last one. I even offered him a part of - A guy who makes a lousy few dollars a month turned you down? - He not only turned me down, he threatened to go to Captain However, I did find out one thing. When Geronimo acted up once too often, they shipped him off to Florida. - Why don't we do the - 'Cause Victorio ain't - No, not now, he isn't. But if given reason enough, he would. (ominous orchestral music) - That a fact? - Yes, sir, that is a fact. - [Narrator] Just a simple to create the trouble - They shot with him with this, in front of the agency office last night! Greer here saw them do - Yeah, that's right, I seen - It just shows ya how the - Dirty Apaches! - [Man] Much against us going - [Greer] What I wanna know is, what're we gonna do about this? (men yell over each other) - Now, now, listen, folks! I'm not gonna let you take - [Greer] Don't you try - Listen, you two, you're You take my advice, you keep outta this. - [Greer] And let these (men yell over each other) - [George] Now listen, folks, - Alright, we're ridin' You goin' with us? Get your horses, let's go! (suspenseful orchestral music) - [Man] Yah, yah! - Come on, let's go! (suspenseful music) - The army has moved from the hills. I have come to see Mr. - Well he hasn't arrived yet this morning. The door's still locked. - Perhaps he has ridden to Stanton mentioned anything - [Gillis] I haven't seen the - 10 days? No message from him, no word of any kind? Could he have found out about you? Has he learned you are half-Indian? - Why is our blood so important? What difference does it make? - To some people, no difference. To men like Captain Stanton, it is everything. Dawn. My feelings towards you have not changed. I can even forget you are half-white. (suspenseful orchestral music) - Let's get these children inside. Help me get this door open. - [Greer] Alright, men, let's get 'em all! (guns fire) (rousing horn melody) (rousing horn melody) - Moving into line at the ready! Hold! (suspenseful orchestral music) - If you've come to help - Place those miners under You do have a law against - You bet we do, Captain. - This is our law! These Indians killed Greer here seen 'em do it! - And we ain't leavin' - At a 45-degree angle. - You're bluffin', Captain! - Fire! (guns fire) - I told you he couldn't (ominous orchestral music) - Greer, the next order I - We ain't leavin', Captain! - No! Murderers, butchers! We got nothin' against you! - Kill me, too, I'm half-Indian, kill me! - Alright, what're we waitin' (gun fires) (guns fire) - Fire! (guns fire) - Get out of here, come on! - Cease fire! - Dismount and take care of the wounded. (somber orchestral music) - Where are you taking her? (moody orchestral music) - Now, what do you have - Nothing, sir, except If I hadn't ordered my men to open fire, all of Victorio's people - Captain, you're forgetting - This is no proof Red Hawk Thompson, it could've - What about the eye-witness, Captain? A man named Greer said - Greer's a liar! Your involvement with has evidently clouded your senses. - My involvement with this is my personal business. I don't think the Apaches killed Thompson. I'd stake my army future on it. - You just have, Captain. Until I can track down consider yourself under arrest Any questions? - No, sir. - Men are mounted and - Very well. - Oh, Colonel. There's a delegation of the - Tell them I haven't time to see them. - Sir, I just did. - [Man] We demand that You've got a murderer in there! - That's him right there, - [Man] It's your duty to - It's my duty to see If he is at fault, he will I assure you, the army will do everything to discipline properly. Now, go back to town and - Barricade, you mean we're - This is merely a precautionary measure. I'm riding out with my entire intercept Victorio before he reaches town. - You dirty, dirty Indian-lover, you! You're not gonna let 'em do that, are you? - Sergeant? (rousing horn melody) (rousing horn melody) Company! At a trot! Forward! Ho! (dramatic orchestral music) (Red Hawk howls) (Red Hawk howls) (women scream) (girl sobs) (somber orchestral music) - How is she? - I've located the bullet, - Did you give her something for the pain? - All I have is whisky You just hang on and - Jeff. - Talk to me. - Jeff, the doctor said, Victorio and my people are - Yes, that's right. - Stop them, please stop them. Make them go back. - Alright, I'll-- She's fainted, doc. - That's a blessing. Got it. (suspenseful orchestral music) (gun fires) - Hold! (Apaches howl) (gun fires) - Sergeant! - At the ready! (dramatic orchestral music) (guns fire) Ho! (suspenseful music) - What're we chasin', Apaches or ghosts? - Forward! Ho! (Apaches howl) - At least those aren't ghosts! Bugler, sound the charge! (rousing horn melody) (rousing horn melody) (rousing horn melody) (rousing horn melody) (rousing horn melody) - Hold! (suspenseful music) (Ramirez speaks Spanish) - I said, sir, please have mercy on us. I think we've ridden right into a trap. (guns fire) - Take cover, ho! (dramatic orchestral music) - Get on ground, take cover! (guns fire) - Get that wagon down. Come on, move it! Come on! - Sergeant! (guns fire) (Apaches howl) (guns fire) (guns fire) - Fix this leg up, Colonel. (guns fire) Orderly! - Sergeant, we'll never get As soon as it gets dark, I want a volunteer to take - Yes, sir. Ramirez! - Yes, sir? - Yeah, you're comin' along fine. There you are, take a sip of this. I'll be right back. (suspenseful orchestral music) - The tribe is moving into the hills. I have come to take you. - No, I belong here. - You speak like a child The hatred that he has for us is not good. - He loves me. - That's good news, doc. Feeling better, good. - I have come for her. She is in danger here. (melancholic orchestral music) - She'll be in more danger - Perhaps. But at least she will not Have you not forgotten she is a breed? Her mother was a squaw. A Comanche's squaw. You are going to marry her, Captain? You will be very proud when you hear your children called breeds, animals. Well, Captain? - I'm ready to go. - And you're the one that stubborn, hard-headed man who - [Doctor] Bring him over here. - The whole command is pinned I couldn't have made it to The wires from town have been cut. - Jeff, they'll wipe out the command, and probably the town and - Doc, can you still ride? - As soon as I patch him up, I'm ready. - Then you'll have to go to Tuscan. Bring help from the fort. I'm goin' into town. I don't believe the If I can prove it, maybe I before it's too late. (suspenseful orchestral music) - I'm going over to the store. Call me in an hour and I'll expel you. - You don't need me yet, I'm You. You're supposed to be under - Come over here. What's the matter? - I don't like bein' surprised. - Get down over there. I wanna ask you some questions, and that arrow that killed Mr. Thompson. Know anything about it? - I don't know nothin' about any arrow. - [Jeff] Nothing? - No. - I think you need a drink, - That'll do. - All of it. (Hodges coughs) That arrow that killed Mr. Thompson, was Arapahoe, but you don't - No! (groans) No more, please. - Down with it. - I can't tell you what - [Jeff] You don't know - Unless it was Apaches. I have no idea. Apache. - Drink it. (suspenseful orchestral music) (door handle rattles) (knocks) - Who's out there, what do you want? - It's Hodges, Mr. Owens. Gotta see ya, it's important. - What could be so important Oh, you're drunk. You'll be court martialled What do you want here? - Some answers, who killed Thompson? - You must be out of your mind. - Maybe so, but the Apaches didn't do it. They wouldn't have used an Arapahoe arrow. - Arapahoe? That arrow was so crooked, - Oh, so that's it. I knew Greer was up to something. - Keep talking. You know the position These people look to me for leadership. Unfortunately, I can't control 'em all. Now, Greer came to me a few that would help our cause. He did ask me if he could - I see. (Hodges snores) (glass smashes) Stay there. Over here, we'll go out the back way. - [Owens] But it's not I told you it was Greer. Look, Captain, can't we make a deal? (bucket rattles) (gun fires) - I seen... - Get rid of it. Owens was just on his how you killed Thompson. - He won't be able to - No, he won't. But you will. (distant guns fire) (distant guns fire) - I tell you, we can't (distant guns fire) You're turning me loose? - You need me, don't you, boy? Just long enough to help - Oh, no. Killin' Apaches is against the law. Besides, I ain't lookin' forward to spendin' the next few years in jail. - Jail would be a lot better to you if they ever You make up your own mind. - You need me, too, don't ya? Come on. (dramatic orchestral music) (distant guns fire) (guns fire) - Well, the command's pretty well shot up. (ominous orchestral music) Hold your fire! It's the captain! - Hang onto him, Sergeant. Colonel Perry, Ramirez got through to me. Help is on its way. - Stanton, I'll see that gets into the report. Colonel, here's the man that swore he saw an Apache kill Thompson. I think he's ready to tell the truth now. - Well, go ahead. - It's like I said before, Colonel. The Apaches killed Thompson. - Sergeant Cobb? - Throw him out there and (Greer grunts) (gun fires) (guns fire) - Alright! (guns fire) Indians never killed him. I done it. - I want a signed confession. Give him paper and a pencil, Sergeant. Sir, if I can reach Victorio and the townspeople were taken I'm sure I can arrange a truce, - Permission granted. - If successful, I'll signal - Good luck. (guns fire) (dramatic orchestral music) (bullet ricochets) (Apaches howl) (Red Hawk speaks Spanish) - Victorio, (speaks Spanish) Victorio. (somber orchestral music) - My father, Captain. Well, Captain? - That's up to you, Red Hawk. You're their chief now, you If it's war, then there's no If you want peace, read of the man who killed the Indian agent. - Has your colonel seen this? - Yes, he asked for a truce. - I will meet with the colonel. - He's waiting for my signal. Miss Gillis, how is she? - As far as you are (suspenseful orchestral music) - Colonel. Captain Stanton made it, there it is. - Sergeant, get my horse. Colonel, look. It's the reinforcements They're in position But we won't need them now, will we, sir? - Sergeant. Break out the heliograph I wanna send a message. - Match this. (somber orchestral music) - Colonel, this is Red Hawk. He is now chief of the Mescalero Apaches. - Let's discuss the terms. - I will tell you the terms. My people will go back to the reservation. There are to be no reprisals - That sounds reasonable, Colonel. - You give your word? - Colonel? - I guess I have no choice, Captain. - Do we have your word, Colonel? - You have his word. - He must tell me. (rousing horn melody) (dramatic orchestral music) - I'm sorry, I can't keep that promise. Order your people to drop your - Colonel, you let me give my word. - I needed the time. - Liar! (moody orchestral music) - [Narrator] After three Captain Stanton was ordered of General Nelson from Washington. - Colonel, your work out here is finished. I'll see that you're - Yes, sir. - You'll take charge of this post, Major. - I appreciate your confidence, Here's my resignation. - Your resignation, I - I would be, if we'd been able - Stanton, my orders were to I'm sorry I had to use - Didn't you? - Would you leave us, please, Colonel? - Sir. - Officers with a sense with compassion are hard to find. Your father was such a man. Unfortunate they didn't find I'd like you to reconsider, Stanton. - I've made up my mind, General. Sorry. - So am I. - Red Hawk, I want you to know something. I disagree with the army and about shipping you and I can't change what has it's worth, I've just - They say the reservation in tall grass. My people are being given a fresh start. The Texans have no old wounds to remind them of the bad days. But you must not leave the army. - You're the last person I ever - When we met beside my father's body, you spoke of the responsibility and their future. You have as much that will be brought to If you stay, you will not be alone. One cannot dictate to the heart. Visit me one day in Texas. Bring your children. - At ease, hut! (joyful orchestral music) (upbeat orchestral music)