Right now, we're going to take 21 seconds God for his mighty power and his awesome work, and Lake Norman and Ballantyne. We're going to do it in our bedrooms and kitchens Praise him on the treadmill! Some of y'all have our podcast going. Just holler in the gym. They won't throw you out. &quot;I praise you, Lord! I'm running and not growing weary. I'm walking and I will not fade. I give you praise! I'm not ashamed to praise you!&quot; Didn't that feel good? Just get those hands out of those pockets Devil's head. Let me start the sermon now. Welcome, everybody, to Elevation Church. I'm going to share with you today this Scripture. I had a substitute preacher ready because tour, but it was almost like a battle of two to me. I was like, &quot;Well, I'll preach this week. Somebody needs this word.&quot; The Lord brought me here for you. Do you believe God loves you that much that I totally believe that. I want to preach for a moment from Haggai, Graham said, &quot;Are you preaching this week, I said, &quot;I think so. God is speaking to me.&quot; He said, &quot;From Luke 5?&quot; Because that's what I've been preaching in I said, &quot;No, son. Not from Luke 5.&quot; He said, &quot;Let's go.&quot; He was so tired of hearing about Simon and Chris didn't get tired of it one time. Chris got saved every night on the Elevation He rededicated, sanctified, Spirit-filled. He was walking around speaking in tongues Davide was eating grapes. Tiffany is about the only pure one on the Don't let their smiles fool you. I love this Scripture. It's such a powerful prophecy and promise Listen to this. Haggai 2: &quot;In the day of the seventh month, the word of the to Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, governor of priest, and to the remnant of the people. Ask them, &quot;Who of you is left who saw this How does it look to you now? Does it not seem to you like nothing? But now be strong, Zerubbabel,&quot; declares the &quot;Be strong, Joshua son of Jozadak, the high Be strong...&quot;'&quot; Say your name. &quot;Be strong.&quot; You have to talk to yourself this way. God is not always going to have Haggai following So, say, &quot;Be strong,&quot; and say your name. &quot;'Be strong, all you people of the land,' For I am with you,' declares the Lord Almighty. 'This is what I covenanted with you when you And my Spirit remains among you. Do not fear.' This is what the Lord Almighty says: 'In a It won't be long. It might be happening right now. It might happen before you get home today. &quot;'In a little while I will once more shake dry land. I will shake all nations, and what is desired this house with glory,' says the Lord Almighty. 'The silver is mine and the gold is mine,' &quot;And the crypto. And the Bitcoin. It's all mine. Whatever they make, I trade in it. I am the Lord Almighty.&quot; &quot;'The glory of this present house will be says the Lord Almighty. 'And in this place I will grant peace,' declares Not &quot;Declares Pastor Steven.&quot; I wouldn't give you $2 for what I say, but This is the word God said to say to you today. Are you ready? God said to tell you (this is my title): Stop So, we have to talk about temples. That's what's happening in Haggai 2. They're rebuilding the temple, the temple It has been in ruins for over 50 years because I'll give you a little history lesson real Just a little one. Just a little context. Every blessing has a context. You don't want to just shout over something set in. It's very important to understand they've off. Not of their own choice, but they've been When Psalms says, &quot;By the rivers of Babylon up their harps and their electric guitars it all up on the willow tree, which represents So, what we're stepping into in Haggai, chapter I hesitate to use that word because it's so Certain words right now just make you feel &quot;We're going to rebuild this nation. We're going to rebuild this economy. We're going to build it back better, praise That's not the hype right here; this is the Not the hype, but the hope is that they are are going to reinvent their template. What comes to mind when I say template will If you're in a computer background, a template If you use machinery and stuff, they use metal something. Or if there are really any geniuses in here, the template. Understanding this will really help us to people. This temple they're rebuilding that was destroyed, in Jerusalem, was completely unfamiliar to They had only heard about it. They never saw it. The only people who saw Solomon's temple, I'll tell you a little bit about it in about now senior citizens. That's important. But let's talk about Solomon's temple. It was so grand that one historian said half was used to overlay the temple. Half of the world's gold! I started studying about it. What would you need half the gold in the world Can't God meet you anywhere? He met the Israelites in a tent in the wilderness. He didn't need a bunch of gold to meet with I mean, he'll meet with you... Some of you met God not somewhere in a church trying to crawl to the toilet to throw up, you will get me through this.&quot; Or &quot;If you will let the test be negative, I know it's early to be in your business, I mean, anywhere. You can meet God throwing up in a toilet bowl, and he wanted it built that way, because he's The silver is his. The gold is his. He doesn't mind any of that. I had a guy come to church one time. He said, &quot;I would get baptized, but I don't I said, &quot;Who told you that?&quot; He said, &quot;There was a preacher one time who I said, &quot;Did the preacher who told you that?&quot; Because the guy was rich. Apparently, he had some preacher who was trying was trying to work this guy, saying, &quot;Well, the proof of your sincerity is poverty, so God.&quot; The Lord said, &quot;I'm not stuck in your scarcity. I can bless you so much with my runover.&quot; Ask the disciples. God blessed them so much off of five loaves home leftovers. God said, &quot;You will break your back trying seek me first.&quot; Not just money, but peace of mind. Don't you want that? Meaning and purpose and significance that I feel like preaching and telling somebody, Anyway, that's a lot of gold. Right? The candlesticks were made of gold, five on The basins were made of gold. You know the tongs they would pick up the Those were made of gold. This is how crazy God is. Even the hinges on the doors were made of That's extravagant. That was Solomon's temple. That is not the temple that is being built It's a different temple, and it requires a Psychologically speaking, right now you have anyway) by the neural pathways and associations Really, our template is based on familiarity, What feels true to you might not be actually Imagine this. The prophet Haggai... We don't know anything about this guy. He has some leaders: Joshua, who comes from priest, Moses' brother. You might remember hearing his name one time. Moses was like, &quot;I can't speak, God.&quot; He's like, &quot;Here comes Aaron. He'll speak. You shut up and do what I tell you to do. Here's your staff,&quot; because God always sends So, that's who Joshua son of Jozadak is. He's from that priestly line of Aaron. Then there's Zerubbabel, who's a governor. Now, here's something that'll help you to The king at the time was called Darius. This is before he started Hootie &amp; the Blowfish. (I just have to keep y'all awake during this shifting around like, &quot;When is he going to This is the sermon. Okay? Because every blessing has a context.) Darius wasn't even supposed to be king, but When the Persians took over Babylon, the Persian He was like, &quot;I want y'all to like me, so That's who is back in Jerusalem (more specifically, of them. They come back, and they start rebuilding their template, the way they saw it... Their model was that spirituality should be We are almost, in the day where I preach, For us, spirituality is like the last thing We will sooner move to a city based on the Do you know what I noticed on corona? I would see people... I don't care if you wear a mask or don't wear I'm not here to talk to you about that. I'm not a doctor. But what I would notice is I would see people everybody mask off everywhere, and I'd come We'd be at a ball game, a restaurant, a movie, I'd ask, &quot;Have you been back to church?&quot; &quot;No, we haven't made it back to church.&quot; But you made it to the ball field. &quot;No, we haven't made it back to church.&quot; Because for us, our cultural template, the God is an app. Scripture is a salad bar, and I pick what That's our template. It doesn't matter what's true. &quot;Oh, no, no. You have to live your truth.&quot; What if your truth is trash? So, they know, &quot;Before we can rebuild the and start to do, not without opposition. &quot;Before we can rebuild the economy, we have But they get discouraged in the work, because It doesn't look like the one they heard about. &quot;This is the temple? Man, I thought it would be better than this.&quot; You make your decision to follow Christ, and &quot;This is Christianity?&quot; I'm sorry. You have a bad template if you think God exists That is not all God is. Do you know what Bible verse I love? John 11:35. How many of y'all need to memorize more Scriptures? Less football stats, Chunks, and more Scriptures. Fantasy Football. If I could just take some of y'all's heads So, we'll start today. Baby steps. You don't do it all at once. John 11:35: &quot;Jesus wept.&quot; Now look. The week hasn't even started yet, and you Give yourself a hand. Come on. That's good. &quot;Jesus wept.&quot; You're like, &quot;Well, what does that have to It's all about expectation. In John 11:35, Jesus is going to see these Their brother died, and Jesus didn't show thought he should. And he could, and they thought he should, Now, Jesus did not say to the sisters what would say to me. &quot;If you don't stop crying...&quot; Finish it. &quot;...I will give you something to cry about.&quot; (Y'all look traumatized. I felt trauma. Your shoulders got tense when you said that.) He didn't say that. He wept with them. He weeps with me. He knows my disappointments. They don't have to stay hidden. I can bring them right out in the light of behind the disappointment that created the He knows the descendants of my disappointment. He knows what disappointment led to what disappointment. Jesus did an ancestry tree on all of the things He knows the real template that's driving He knows the same about you. He knows why you push people away who are You don't even know why you do that yet. It's a mystery to you. You don't even know why yet when things get them up. He knows why. It's because you figure &quot;Rather than let somebody time, I'll just take it away from myself. I will take my ball and go home. I will take my blessing and go home.&quot; Watch this. If your template is &quot;Every relationship ends the very thing that you fear to avoid being The template of these people was a temple gold in weird places, like the washbasin. They made Solomon's temple's washbasin gold, So, then they start building the new one. &quot;Ah, we're going to build a temple.&quot; &quot;Oh, we're going to get our life together.&quot; &quot;Oh, we're going to lose 20 pounds.&quot; Do you know what the hard thing about keeping Nobody congratulates you for not putting it &quot;Oh, you've lost weight.&quot; Nobody has ever said to me, &quot;You still look It has been six years and you haven't fluctuated. Your jeans look the same size. That's awesome. Good job.&quot; Nobody compliments you when the jeans stay That's what's difficult. They're not just rebuilding a temple. God is reinventing their template and their They've been in Babylon so long they have They've been on pandemic, on church online in a crowd without being scared of catching Do you see why I have no patience with people Is this not us? Not only have you been rebuilding what was to reinvent. You have the same title, but it's a completely I talked to the campus pastors when they were for people and lay hands on them. I said, &quot;This sucks for you, doesn't it? You signed up to do ministry with people, because you can't touch, and touch was your It was so hard to reinvent. It has been hard for me to reinvent my identity For years, my adult identity for my ego... In high school it was &quot;How much do you bench Then as a pastor it's &quot;How many people come I went from bench to attendance. &quot;Oh yeah. You have 10,000? I remember those days. Small beginnings. That's all right. Don't be discouraged. The Lord will give you 20.&quot; Can I get a 30? Can I get a 40? Can I get a 50? Wait a minute. Now you're talking about... I was coming up in the church wondering if I mean, after training behavior... I'm not fussing at anybody who comes online, for ministry now that we can reach you wherever I praise God for it. I mean, there are some places we can't put God can give you a breakthrough where there Now God is expanding the territory of the I hear from Zimbabwe and Sao Paulo, Brazil, I hear from everywhere. I hear from Kentucky. God is good. Sometimes God says, &quot;Your template is too This is not a temple built by human hands. This is a temple that his name in heaven is It is a shadow of Jesus Christ. Wow! [Audio cuts off] It's a text about reinventing. It's a text about temples. It's a text about templates. It's a text about trauma. It's a text about tears. There's a time for tears. If sadness was a sin, Jesus couldn't have Disappointment doesn't make you wrong. Anger doesn't make you wrong. There is just as much of a danger of stuffing it out. I hate to hear preachers say, &quot;You don't need All you need is the Holy Ghost.&quot; The blood is on our hands when we talk like lives. It's all a part of the process that he uses. As a matter of fact, that's so dumb. Let's take that to the extreme. &quot;You don't need airplanes. All you need is the Holy Ghost.&quot; I don't see any preachers flying to their It's so stupid. God uses stuff. Even in the text I read, it said the word Sometimes the help you need, the healing you I treat my daughter differently than my sons, they'll remind me. &quot;You're too easy on Abbey. It wasn't like that for us.&quot; And they're right. For them it was &quot;Dry it up.&quot; For her it's like, &quot;I'll buy you one. Don't worry about it.&quot; What's wrong with me? It's different raising boys and girls. It's like a different template. It's different. So, what God is trying to get the people to had before but to get ready for something So, all this time you're spending wishing wasted, because God is not going to make it If he listened to you and made it what it The Bible says we go from glory to glory as Not your image of what God is supposed to Not your template of what you were told God Not your template of what men have always always been. God is not consulting your template. It will be according to his truth. &quot;God, what is your truth?&quot; That's what I want to be my blueprint. I have to get in the Word and find out what about me became a faulty template to keep It's going to be better. Sometimes the enemy of better is not bad; All right. Haggai shows up. The people have gotten so discouraged building there's resistance on the outside and there's Both are happening to you right now. It's almost impossible to live in this world, Everything is against us. Do you know what I'm saying? And it's a little bit of both. It's a little bit of you. It's a little bit of the world. It's a little bit of the Devil. It's this perfect storm. You're not just rebuilding; you're reinventing. Not just for those of us in a midlife crisis, You are always reinventing. That's the nature of it. Or you're dead. You're reinventing or you're dead. Those are your two options. So, the Lord gave me these things I want to We don't have time to go through all of them back next week. Go ahead and put it on your schedule and tell I have to hear the rest of this sermon.&quot; Can I give you what I can give you today? Okay. It's four Rs of reinvention. I want to call your attention to as many of They're all from the text. The first one is a word you may not hear a It's in verse 2, where God told Haggai, &quot;Speak I thought it was so cool. Zerubbabel. You need a baby name. You've been praying for one. There you go. I'll just throw that in your bag for free. That comes with the Happy Meal. Zerubbabel. I thought it was cool how his name said rubble around. It sounds like rubble. That's what they were looking at. The city was still burned. It didn't look like it used to look. That's a sad thing to look around at your to be there for you, all of that, and go, We're back from Babylon, but we're not exactly be, at least not how we heard about it. We're back. We love God. We're here for it. We're doing what we can, but it's not exactly So, God tells Haggai... He has a word for him. &quot;The word of the Lord came through Haggai: of Judah, to Joshua son of Jozadak, the high That's the first word I want you to write The remnant. It means what's left. It means the small part that stayed. When you find yourself in a period of reinvention normal and nothing makes sense and nothing nothing looks like where you've been before, gold? Where's the temple we heard about? Where's all the stuff that used to happen?&quot; Or if your body is starting to ache in ways figuring out how to work around that... God said, &quot;Speak to the remnant.&quot; The remnant could represent a fragment. Remember, there were hundreds of thousands Only 60,000 came back. That can discourage you, especially if you're Do you know what the hardest thing about staying me? Having to keep a good spirit even when people Not if they leave to go on and do something I'm talking about people who just flat fall This is how some of the campus pastors feel to volunteer yet. &quot;After everything we did for you... Really? You? I was praying for you for every ingrown toenail. You called me at 2:00 in the morning because to the hospital, and I would pray for you, Let me run into you in Ruby Tuesday. I will cuss you out.&quot; See, if I'm the Devil (and I'm not), if I'm focused on who left you don't see what's left. There's still a remnant. Even if it's a fraction of what it once was, There is a remnant. &quot;Yeah, well, I don't have anything to be grateful There's a remnant. You just did it. Did you breathe in? Did you breathe out? Well, let everything that has breath praise Even if you lost your business, you still Even if you lost your boyfriend, you still Hey, who's not to say that dude was rubble? Maybe God was clearing him out so you could God said if you stay so focused on who didn't &quot;like,&quot; who didn't endorse, who didn't click This is what the Lord said to me in one season He said, &quot;If you keep focusing on who left who's lost and what's left.&quot; I was crying because some people left out &quot;Oh, we'll never leave.&quot; Be careful of those people. That's like Peter saying, &quot;I will never deny Jesus was like, &quot;Before that rooster says He's not even going to get to the 'doo' and You're going to cut the rooster off mid-crow While I'm crying over who left, God has given who are lost. That's the mission of Jesus: to seek and save The Devil can't take... This is one thing he can't do. He can't take what God gave you. He can't. But if he can get you so depressed, so distracted, He wants to keep you crying to keep you from Stop crying; it's coming. For everything that left your life, God has &quot;I am with you to this day.&quot; Let me finish the sentence. &quot;If God is for us, who can be against us?&quot; If God is with me, he is more than the world I know you've been crying. It's all right. God sent me with a prophetic word like Haggai. I see him reaching through the centuries to You don't want to miss what's coming because What's coming is better than what's going. God is taking you from glory to glory to glory. If you feel comfortable, touch your neighbor Put it in the chat. Stop crying; it's coming. How long will you mourn over what God has Fill your horn with oil. David is in the field. It's coming. I don't say that by feeling; I say it by faith. It's coming. Joy is coming. Peace is coming. Praise is coming. Restoration is coming. It's coming! In fact, lift up your eyes. The harvest is here! Not four more months...right now! Fill the temple with praise! Stop crying; it's coming. If the Enemy can keep you crying, he can keep Haggai said, &quot;I know what you're thinking. I'm thinking it too. This is nothing compared to that. I saw pictures of Solomon's temple on Pinterest. It was expensive.&quot; It was the same place Solomon's temple was God is reforming it. He's reforming your life. He's shaping it like a potter and the clay. He's reforming it. That's what it is. It's his hands, not the Devil's. When we write songs, the worse they suck when finish them. Then we take it home, and we have the demo, There's this thing called demoitis. It's when you listen to the first version it really needs a lot of work. The Devil has some of y'all in demoitis. You thought the first version was the only what your gifts are, but the Lord said, &quot;I Stop crying. I know it sounds insensitive. &quot;Pastor Steve, Jesus wept. Didn't you see that?&quot; Yeah, I'm the one who told you about that. But that's not all he did. Look at John 11:38. It says after Jesus cried, which is important... Trauma is real. Seventy years in Babylon will make you cry. It'll make you forget to sing. When you find out what your kid has been doing When you and your husband don't even look so you can fake it real good, it'll make you God doesn't correct the sisters, but I'm glad In John 11:38 it says not &quot;Jesus cried,&quot; but So, he cried, and then he came. Stop crying; it's coming. I don't want the old temple to keep me from Seriously. You know how it said in the verse in Haggai now...&quot; Did you catch that? It's a really small thing in verse 5. I didn't make a big deal out of it, but it They thought Pharaoh had to let them go for That wasn't their biggest problem. Their biggest problem was letting go of Moses. See, Moses gave them the Law, and they were who is the true image of God, to show them Not to break the Law but to fulfill it. When Jesus came, they could not recognize So, while we're fighting like, &quot;Hey, Pharaoh, Hey, addiction, let me go. Hey, temptation, let me go,&quot; God is like, glory.&quot; I don't know who it is. If it's three people, it's worth saying. You have to let go of former glory to receive Now, that means a lot of things. It means the same Jesus who cried at the gate It didn't stop him from doing what he came He didn't come just to cry or give them a He didn't just bake them a roast so they could He came to show them who he was. He came to reinvent their concept of God and only am I a healer; I am resurrection.&quot; He came to prefigure what he would do. He came. So, he cried. (Come on, don't tap out on me. This is the best part of the sermon. I know y'all aren't going to listen to a sermon the end of the sermon. This is the part I wanted to preach us to.) He cried, and you've been crying. You have a Christ who cries, so that's fine. He will cry with you. But then you have a Christ who, after he stopped So, he's coming to the tomb. He's coming to the part that's buried. He's coming to the part that's broken. He's coming to the part that's dead. He's coming to the part that stinks. He's coming to the part that's rotten. He's coming to the part that has given up He cried, he came, but that's not the good The good part is verse 43: &quot;When he had said So, he cried, he came, and then he called I hear that voice calling today through the to this very moment in the house of God. &quot;Lazarus, come forth! Come forth!&quot; He's speaking to your joy. He's speaking to your peace. He's speaking to your strategy. He's speaking to your spirit. &quot;Come forth!&quot; So you cried a while. It's all right. I am convinced that the sufferings of this glory that will be revealed. Did you catch that whole sermon? He cried. He came. He called. You have to call some things out today. They're not going to come automatically. You can cry over it as long as you want, but the inside. What the prophet told the people was, &quot;You Is wishing for something you don't have keeping I don't know. Maybe it's just me, but I needed this word. The Lord said, &quot;You can cry, but eventually things that be not as though they are, beneath The promise is... It's a covenant, not a commitment. Commitments can be broken; covenants cannot, one who cannot lie. So, it's a lot of pain. When they laid the foundation... Ezra showed us something. When they got that temple started... I think I'm going to pick this up next week It's your fault. You were shouting and receiving and glorifying I didn't come to get through my points. I came to give you this word: stop crying; The Bible says in Ezra 3:10, &quot;When the builders the priests in their vestments and with trumpets, took their places to praise the Lord, [like With praise and thanksgiving they sang to endures forever.' And all the people...&quot; I want y'all to do what the text says. Stand up. &quot;...gave a great shout of praise to the Lord, because the foundation Now, that's where I'm going to pick up next foundation to somebody else's finish line, Next week, if you will give me the opportunity preach about how to shout about foundations. I'm going to teach you how to do a dance when I'm going to teach you how to dance on the I'm going to teach you how to do it, because by eating a cookie. When you lose a pound, you buy some shoes. But if you're getting out of debt, you don't So, I'm going to teach you about how to shout the balance of it so you can keep your progress Oh, I love y'all. We're going to do it next week. But I have to show you this, because this They were shouting about what God was doing, &quot;Wow! We're going to have a temple. I've heard about this.&quot; One generation was saying, &quot;But it's not like Watch what the Bible says in verse 12. &quot;But many of the older priests and Levites The ones who should have been leading, the and we can't fail. He's going to do a new thing. It's who he is. It's what he does. He's reforming us.&quot; When they saw the foundation... They had seen the former temple. They had the old template. &quot;This is what it has to look like. This is what I thought marriage would be. This is the city I thought I would live in This is how old I thought my mom would be This is how I thought it would be.&quot; When they saw the temple, it didn't match They wept. The sounds of celebration, the shouts of joy, One generation is weeping over what it was, will be when God gets done with it. What I want to know is...Are you going to You have forgotten who you are working with. The Lord Almighty is in you. It's by his Spirit that you're building. You are not building this by yourself, and He is able to do exceedingly, abundantly above He transcends that. So, within the same body, you have shouts Which one will you listen to? Which one will you obey? He who began a good work in you will be faithful and do the work. You're not working on your own. It is God who works in you to will and to So, maybe God brought you here to remind you remnant, that God has left everything in your I always read the Ecclesiastes verse, &quot;There Charlotte. I don't know what the weather is like where three different seasons in the same day a We don't know how to dress. We'll wake up in the morning shivering, six You'll be sweating by 3:00 p.m., shivering That surprises people who come here from other They just can't believe how violent it is. They put up all of their shorts, and the next &quot;I need them again. I put them in the attic. I have bad knees.&quot; It's confusing. Remember Solomon who built the first temple? This is something he said. I'll leave you with this, and we'll pick it Receive this. Ecclesiastes 3:1: &quot;There is a time for everything, heavens...&quot; So, new season, new temple, new template. That's what's happening in your life. That's why you're uncomfortable. God didn't leave you. He's showing you himself in a different dimension. That's all it is. Watch this. &quot;...a time to be born and a time to die, a to kill and a time to heal, a time to tear a time to laugh, a time to mourn and a time You know what? Sometimes you are doing both in the same season. I thought those were two different seasons. &quot;Oh, I'm waiting for that dancing season.&quot; Sometimes you are going to have to dance while dancing anyway. For the glory of this present house will be God said, &quot;I will fill the house with glory.&quot; You keep looking for the gold, but God said, Not what you can see...what you can't see. &quot;I will fill this house with glory.&quot; It's coming, but you might not see it. You might not feel it. He said, &quot;I want you to keep working even Be strong, Joshua. Be strong, Zerubbabel. Speak to the remnant. Strengthen what remains, because it's only I don't care what the Devil has been telling Your best days are not behind you. I rebuke that right now in the name of Jesus. The glory of the present house will be greater. Everybody who receives it, shout like they Shout over the foundation. The glory of the present house, what God is Glory to glory, strength to strength, joy Lord, thank you for sending your word through We receive it. Thank you for laying this foundation. We receive it. Thank you for Jesus who is the greater glory.