Typically, writing a PhD or master's thesis is But there are some rare cases where a on their very first try. Across history, there a huge impact on not just their scientific Several scientists have even gone on to win Nobel student. I tracked down eight outstanding and in this video I will show you what made mathematics, chemistry, astronomy, Each distills the work done by a degree. For a master's this is typically be from three to more than six years. all the students findings and will Yet, while these theses are shining they don't quite show the whole picture. For there is a mix of skill, determination, you don't have to write an award winning thesis. scientists who never wrote a thesis at all. I'll let's see what we can learn from This first PhD thesis, also called a dissertation, was handwritten by Paul Dirac and He submitted it at Cambridge in May 1926. seemingly written in pen, others contain in pencil. In one corner of a page, a seemingly Dirac's thesis was the first to be written which had only been introduced by Heisenberg years old. Dirac writes in his preface that of this theory from a slightly different The table of contents shows that the thesis motion of a particle in a central field, systems with more than two theory of Compton scattering, and intensity ideas that you would still expect to see Throughout his thesis Dirac lays the to quantum mechanics. The pages aren't laid hard to read this thesis but you can skim developing the Dirac delta functions that get his thoughts towards what would go something that is now considered one of the The Dirac equation merges quantum mechanics with close to the speed of light. Thinking about these positron, and in 1933, Dirac was awarded the Nobel for his contribution to the discovery of This next thesis has been called the in astronomy. It is titled Stellar Atmospheres, High Temperature in the Reversing Layers It was her PhD thesis at the Harvard And it changed not just how we study the stars, but what we know about their composition. In the dark lines left behind when observing a because of their elemental makeups, but She found that higher temperature made it more which changed their absorption spectra. Yet, Cecilia Payne-Gaposchkin, as wrote a thesis full of caveats Perhaps because, as she writes, astrophysics is was a young student. The editor's note before remembered that the interpretation of stellar ionization is new and the methods employed Hence, we must expect that a study such as is extension in many places. Yikes. These unwarranted resulted in the omission of one of the paper's she made the discovery that our sun was made However, senior colleagues warned her that this Payne-Gaposchkin included the result in of Elements, but with a note is almost certainly not real. Luckily for The Sun is indeed made nearly entirely been tragic if she had removed that finding believe. Another scientist who also collecting data for their astronomy And like Payne-Gaposchkin, Burnell's by her more senior colleagues. In her titled The Measurement of Radio Source Burnell was consumed by collecting data signals These signals are the bright lights emitted the supermassive black hole. Burnell helped to called the Interplanetary Scintillation Array. Burnell and her telescope generated miles of data, which she searched through with a fine tooth comb Some nights she would review as one night she found a signal that didn't match up. It wasn't exactly a twinkling radio source Burnell had spotted a 1. 3 second that didn't match quasar behavior. thought it must have been an error in I didn't talk about it to my supervisor until I Ultimately, Hewish and Burnell published her published her own PhD thesis on quasars. or more commonly now called pulsars, would go on to win Hewish a Nobel Despite having identified the radio overlooked by the Nobel Committee. As credit for the discovery. The Nobel Prize was Martin Ryle. Even though Burnell was the one who She later said that the fact that I was a graduate in terms of receiving a Nobel Prize. While she did go on to have a great career in astronomy and Breakthrough Prize in Fundamental Physics in 2018 The prize money was roughly three times that to the Institute of Physics to fund women and students to become physics researchers. There have and this next thesis is one of them, but you More than a decade before we even had the like the ENIAC, a 21 year old master's computing logic. That student was Claude Relay and Switching Circuits, Shannon's Boolean algebra to electric circuits This is the kind of logic that would later bits like on, off, and if. Today, these of all the complex computing at our far beyond Shannon in the 1930s, instead logic can be applied to automatic telephone and in almost any circuits designed to Shannon's work was not in a field But he is commonly known as the and his thesis has been called the most important Shannon went on to do a PhD in mathematics, That thesis, unlike his first, didn't An Algebra for Theoretical Genetics, and whilst Shannon lost interest in it. He later and early artificial intelligence. This next thesis is very unique. Some students complete their postgrad degrees work they spent years completing. Mathematician Nash wrote a thesis for his Princeton it was only 27 pages long. It While short and sweet, this thesis laid now called Nash Equilibrium that became part of Nash explains that in finite games with there must exist at least one equilibrium their optimal strategy and would not be Beyond the poker example used in Nash's thesis, today, including helping robots navigate if you haven't heard of Nash Equilibrium, maybe A Beautiful Mind. The film won Best Picture work on top secret military code For the work on game theory that he Nash shared the 1994 Nobel Prize in Economics. So it was also hugely impactful, probably the most for his lifelong contributions to mathematics, Nash was awarded the prestigious Abel Tragically, on his way home to New Nash and his wife Alicia were killed when Nash was aged 86. His legacy extends far raised awareness of mental illness, having This next thesis is one that I've covered on Sklodowska Curie. Known simply as Marie Curie, but most people don't realize this pioneering work born scientist who moved to Paris to pursue In Paris, she earned degrees in physics and embarked on a PhD. As Curie herself says her work was the extraction of new study of their properties. The title of her This work was undertaken in the last few thesis was published in 1903, Marie, Pierre and Nobel Prize in Chemistry for their work the work laid out in Curie's thesis details the polonium, named for Curie's Both of these elements were many discovered by Becquerel several years earlier. to this day. Uncovering these new elements was then unbeknownst to them radiation sickness To find a sample of radium, the a radioactive ore called pitchblende, precipitated, collected, re dissolved, ore's elemental components until they Marie Sklodowska Curie was the first woman but for her it was only the start of a life second Nobel Prize, that one in chemistry, most exciting physics discoveries of her in 1985 that would ultimately go on to win her only 23 years old and had not yet completed her But let's back up. In 1984, Greider one of her future co awardees, who was conducting DNA that protect a chromosome from damage. The aging, the more easily a chromosome can be As part of her graduate work in Blackburn's telomere elongation when she found it in the transferase. It was over drinks with colleagues catchier telomerase. This enzyme would have major This discovery of telomerase was first Greider published her PhD thesis titled Telomere Terminal Transferase in 1987. and their colleague Jack Szostak received When Donna Strickland got into physics, study, and that's when she discovered high University of Rochester, Strickland who was trying to create high powered laser pulses And I just thought, that sounds neat, I'm other self described laser jocks in the lab had originally hypothesized, Strickland was through a mix of stretching the lasers and then ultimately compressing them back Stritchland described this process called thesis titled Development of an Ultra Bright Ionization. This laser amplification approach where it's used in corrective As well as industrial machining. In 2018, Physics for their work developing this method. have made a huge impact on their fields at an Most scientists will never win a Nobel Prize, and So what do these hugely impactful theses have thing at the right time. There is an element of is that to be the first to discover something a time early enough for no one else to have made technology exists for you to make the discovery build upon all of the existing knowledge that's and a great physicist, but also happened to just a year after Heisenberg and Schrodinger had There were many open questions ready for Dirac maybe someone else would have done the same, or maybe the whole field would now be that these people all took a risk on ideas that For every Marie Curie who spent years doing there will have been other people just as looking for. There are parts of experimental of your control. There's an element of They show off times when the hard work pays are just as smart and work just as hard Jocelyn Burnell and Cecilia Payne also consider. Students face the additional the face of senior scientists who may That's one reason why choosing the as choosing the right topic to work on. list like this actually exclude? PhD and shape in Eastern Europe and so while the idea influential elsewhere as they may seem in In the 1920s, PhD degrees were only handful of universities. Prior to this, such as through debates and oral presentations. contributions to science, including winning Nobel This includes C. V. Raman, who won the research on light scattering. He didn't have who worked on quantum mechanics. Bose's name has named partially after him. Doctoral degrees so some of their best scientists are Take for example Tu Youyou. With only in pharmacology from Beijing Medical College, Tu 2015 for her work discovering a novel therapy for found by studying ancient Chinese medical texts to Looking through many ancient medical texts, two being used as a treatment for intermittent isolated a compound found in wormwood that seemed the solution first on mice and monkeys and then before administering the treatment to malaria It is the distillation of this compound's the Nobel Prize for her contribution to malaria lives worldwide. To that point, many of but winning such a prize is still only Some theses may be more impactful in raising awareness, inspiring people, launching a recognized by the Nobel Prizes, such as pure scientist is about trial and error, learning the Science is hard work, but occasionally all course of history. Thank you to this video possible and a special shout out