It's 7:30 a.m. Victor hurries. At 22, he is on an internship that there is no question of arriving My parents, Some of my friends, They thought His professional training Victor performs it in the kitchen the most prestigious in France, that of the Elysee. Good morning sir. Thanks. For security reasons, we find him in the huge kitchen of the Presidents of the Republic. Around twenty Today, loaded with mash You do not need That, you put it Once And when we prepare we are very far There we pass to remove Then, this water, we recover it, to have exactly Here the apprentices Chef Guillaume Gomez, takes care of the selection himself. To find rare pearls, When I need to select me someone. All the kids I see they are and that they want to learn Today, it is an address This school, we call it In the neighborhood a temple of culinary education, 25,000 square meters of classrooms Two thousand students of all ages, of all nationalities. Mandatory suit and tie, from CAP to bac +3, they come here pastry, high gastronomy or the art of French service. Restaurant the most popular in Paris. The equivalent, If Joel Robuchon, is its honorary president, the Ferrandi School launched young chefs Kristin Frederick, the American who, imported fashion Remy Escale, one of the youngest or even Gontran Cherrier, the trendy young baker from Montmartre hill Today, This is table eight, We followed Victor, maybe one of the future Three, four minutes. It's the hour of truth. Patrice, a senior executive Maria and her friends, all from the end of the world to get started You're ready ? Absolutely, I'm just putting on my tie. And then there is Aubin. This young man at the Ferrandi school, After a moment, Not easy to do? Not too. He made his comeback and still have a little trouble Ah, are you tying my knot again? Yes, because there you are not there. If you had been told that at 15, would you have believed it? It's unthinkable to be - That's enough ? The last two years, all his holidays in the hope I was really dreaming It was my absolute dream. Because already Not all, but some It's certain Often, the cap, Yes, I quite agree. There, are you proud? From the time who they like... My big, Thanks you too. Get up at 6 a.m. to get to school. Good morning sir. Are you doing well ? Yes, very well. In this institution you have to bend first This morning, Aubin's day The general subjects represent half of the program. Sit down. Aubin is part of To enter Ferrandi, The selection is made on file. So inevitably, are already taken Do you work on Sunday? Everyone has their specialty? I think yes. Me, A crunch Other specialties? and chocolate pies. Tartlets Yes, that is simple. Everything that is Anything artistic. It's a little No. Not at the moment. Who is this - Me ! This afternoon, after dropping the jacket, they will have The recipe of the day, cream puffs, - Hi there. Like I've told you, At the wand, Sebastien Rein, 32 years old, It must melt quickly, - Chief ? Sounds easy, actually? But it's easy. Everybody can What do you think about it? Must have - For you, is it a formality? So why are you watching We have to. In case. We'll see what they're up to I hope it will be easy. For this first day, Aubin and his comrades choux pastry and cream. But it's boiling, there, it's boiling. The day after, and some will fall from above. At the fourth floor, The most prestigious section, that of the Bachelors, must organize from the school restaurant. A crucial day - Hi there. Today, menu number 2, Fall themed meal. The teacher is Eric Robert, twenty years in the kitchen The chef, Victor Lemoine. The second, Eloi Spindler. General Manager, Laura Boucher. - Hello, Laura. The two students of the day are Laura, and Victor, the Elysee apprentice, For tonight, These Bachelors have They pay This Tuesday, Laura and Victor will have to and above all lead I ask you as quiet as possible. Listen carefully Normally the service Everything seems written in advance. Only in the kitchen Hi guys ! In the menu of the day, In high gastronomy, the quality There, you have a bass that has been fished He still has his mouth open. There is still He still has his mouth open. He has very bright eyes. Look, there it really is The bar is splendid. We can't say They look tired. We see that the gills are dull. There is silt, That, you send it back to me, Look, We have an emergency, it is absolutely necessary First stress for Victor, All day, There is the production kitchen, And in addition, Must be This former student 25 people you have everything Alice has to debone the pigeons. It's you, miss, who came up with the pigeon recipe? Baptiste has to cook the pumpkins. It's missing It's still too vegetable. And then Tristan, him, from which he must lift to prepare for cooking. Good news, the new arrival is Really, We can see it because the net, it remains quite well. The eye, we can see it We are still We had a little trouble Indoors, no rest either. At 4:30 p.m., with your cocktails. She is eight o'clock to the number of reservations. And then eight, We didn't have that many tables. It's quite spacious here, With his teacher, Fabrice Ribeiro, Laura prepares the carcass. In jargon, A puzzle, the scenery changes OK that works. You will present it for the brief. But its role does not stop there. Even in the living room? In the living room, What is that? She must have her eye everywhere. It's the candles. But that's not pretty. You don't like the candle? She is dirty but when i pass Imagine you are going to a restaurant, you pay we are you pay and you find this on your table. It is not possible. Show ? Give me that. Everything must be spot on. And with this little piece of woman The trigger for this profession, Baccalaureate in hand, this young girl of a special education teacher. But after barely a month, Laura, you give her I was going to say - I was going to say something macho. Nope, It's not - It's a little better, though? well you do that When I'm back I was barely 18 years old. I did not want I didn't want to take my head I wanted to do I like beautiful things and I like the restaurant. I like hotels. I love to organize. I love managing everything. - Being a bit of a chef? Ten to one. I would like in that all the tables are covered you are done. Like Laura, all are trained great restaurant. Setting up the tables, students learned This is the b.a.-ba of the profession. In this place, The fold that is here, that is to say, it is necessary of the customer's entry. - Will he come that way? This fold, we try Put a tablecloth, so it's an art This fold must be But you have It's necessary on all the tables. Yes, but, is that our second full fold, he is there and he is not there. And where are the others? Frankly, Laura, Because the customer, The customer comes to eat, It's attention to detail. Guillaume, It's a work There's not much left Before the arrival This attention to detail, from the Ferrandi school. Somewhere other students Here, The boys Girls, The boys prepare We are discussing. But we will soon put them It's been a month since Maria, And she got All are like her in the section There is Kevin, the New Yorker who, this evening, Paolo, the Brazilian, or those Americans, by a crime scene the same afternoon. Look at this, look! Oh my God, he's still moving! I was so scared. It is the chief who kills an eel. Everyone was screaming. That said, but to see the cook kill At school, Maria She's a beginner in this. Wait, give me that. you have to turn Until then, this commercial boss of a big It was he who allowed because the entrance ticket it's 19,000 EUR for barely In one month, I have already learned brioche, choux pastry, sugar loaf Have you learned to do a lot of things? You are Almost. If they all paid it is above all because at the exit, at a pastry chef of their choice. I go around a bit And there I'll be fine I'm a little hesitant to go I'm afraid or that I am asked Waiting, And for that, Mr. Averty, 22 years old On the program, the Paris-Brest, wheel-shaped during a bicycle race You will get there, Maria, I think yes. Finally, I hope. Easier Fortunately, Maria and the other students are entitled Their teacher is forgiving, the rather relaxed atmosphere, which is not the case Come on, two minutes, Aubin, the young apprentice Shortly, on the realization of their cabbages. She looks good, successful. I think that as we respected everything, Contrary to appearances, the most delicate. And beware of those Give me a serrated knife. Just once, You will understand why. Monsieur Guermonprez is not It is both interesting and uplifting. Get closer. There I weigh I am a customer, I am being sold On the exam, you will be asked It is in your interest to choose And the jury, I don't even need to look. Between a cabbage that is empty there is almost no Show your two hands. So speed Mohammad? You take It's time for the verdict. Our Top Chefs Here the problem is you did not remove dabbing, so what happens? Surplus Your cabbage, he is not... I put you 13 today. I'm a little disappointed. It's the very first time. How much did you get? Me, I had 12. It's not great. You're welcome - It's certain. Pressure ! Aubin! This is not bad. It's not badly stocked. There is only one Generally, It's almost the same, that Pauline, But it's not bad So, 14? The next time, School mission accomplished Will Aubin keep the same In Saint-Germain-en-Laye, this Saturday morning, barely raise their curtain. It's 8 o'clock. For some people, well before dawn. Gentlemen, No, he was put away there. It must be It's already been It is alternating at Sebastien Goulet, Despite a week Aubin is still going strong. This morning, he has already realized and attack pineapple tarts. What are you running on, Aubin? To motivation. teenagers we can't find any more. That's why I took it He's really into that feeling. That's what we need Are you done decorating it? No, go ahead, finish. On average, during the first year. Aubin, him, as a good ambassador to give up, I can not do You see the butterfly, there, Non, it is not OK. Leave it like that, it's fine. You make small bites. I will show you. It's Axel who is three years old who will teach him. This one, you finish it. You put your butt straight, But when I'm not decorating today. - It does not please you ? Usually I come What do you think ? I think I was the same before too. Always want to load. And with time, we realize the more it pleases. You don't have to put a topping? Yes, you have to coat them. Well seen. Like what, he catches up. Good game, In two years, after his CAP, he will touch Hot Hot ! But this great greedy already thinks by specializing At 6 a.m., this man is often We could However, Patrick I come by bike and then I like it. And that, That's for sure. To come by bike? To come by bike, yes. Because before, we were rather Yes we were One year ago, executive and gave up Good morning ! Today it's We get on A bit of disinfection. Patrice is part of the class one of the I was in the council, I was a bartender. I was in a company There I am It's hard to say but in any case, the values, thanks to this profession, yes, I agree Patrice and his comrades have only which normally takes two years. So every morning Next, we will realize again So it will do milk bread, is that the dough, we are going to work on it We are going to look To start, Touch there. Yes. There, I would have to feel So what is it Here it is, the roll stroke. After five hours, Patrice managed to produce I asked you It takes width. Lying well, it's good, like that, But it's cooking In three-four And that can be terrible. At the time of rendering is always a bit criticism from his teacher. We have sixty, There you gave so there, the grids have To make up for it, but it would have been It is always Either all slightly pointed ends It will be Find a style, okay? So that everything looks the same. Very well. Did he work well? Yes, progressing there was still There, it stays straight, that's good. What I wanted, It will be a step. The next step will be in a year. Patrice account open his wife's country of origin. In one morning, one hundred At the Ferrandi school, nothing is wasted. Morning batch. A big part goes to the cafeteria. There are five per bag. OK, As for the surplus, by a charity. An old tradition I think there, It's not Back to the school restaurant. four hours before kitchens to change the menu. It will not be She didn't so it will be It's not vineyard fishing. Is it venison or not? There is no more fishing Menu changes, That's it, we have to inform ourselves If there are products that we do not have the room as soon as possible. And the annoyances At the end of the afternoon, under the eye In 20 minutes - Yes sir. &quot;B.A.P.&quot; means Clearly, two hours the teachers will test the menu. Alice, - Is it 6:30? Tristan hurries Laura, They will be ready. It'll be OK. Victor will already be judged It's funny. It's good. It's good That's pretty. And unfortunately, There's only Rocket. The salad, she was After, We will do It's pretty. - A beautiful photo. The plate is very graphic. The gnocchi, the little things. It looks nice The zander is almost raw. A mistake of Victor of each cooking. There is a big mistake, however. Cooking fish. That is a big mistake. - Can it be corrected? Like nothing ever happened, distribute the good points. You, it's nickel. It's a bit too acidic And the leek, -Tristan ! cooking fish, With Tristan, the big downside of the test meal. But when customers in a few minutes, serious consequences. Return to Maria, the Mexican. That's Paris-Brest. There, there is one His roommates What to do with all their cakes? That's cabbage We have way too many. I have an idea. We could have a contest Every night they go home Suddenly, Maria, the greediest since his arrival in Paris. It's starting to weigh on him. So the three friends found while improving their French. They offer who, by force, - You want it ? We will be able to put it's my wife's birthday. - Do they often do that? I had a cake You no longer need to buy - Nope. Thanks. Goodbye. Ah, the French Touch! This legendary French welcome. Maria and her friends are going to make some At the end of the day, of the best pastries in Paris. Soft lighting, minimalist decor and worthy cakes This one, And this grapefruit cheesecake, A prestigious pastry, it's exactly But the boss, Claire Damon, yet a former student The courtesy visit What do we use, for a compote? It's not green The green we forget The Granny Smiths, or so, - The Goldens? We also forget. They are in a formation that at the exit, among the older ones. That's all the drama. Because today who arrive for conversion. I find that conversions, that our profession has the wind television, etc. but a pastry chef puts But in five months? It's not even so what It is not possible. - She was really tough, huh? &quot;Do you know this? &quot;In five months, This interview was crazy. I knew the cooks weren't but I thought the pastry, But she, They still have three months left welcoming if possible. Eight o'clock, the restaurant To start, corn with - Good tasting. Do you know what polenta is? Great, He has an education. Good evening sirs. Customers booked two months Price of the gastronomic menu, 45 EUR. For the moment, Only quack, thrown to the bottom Does it work or not? It does not work, No way to stop it. The virtual chimney fire, that's the idea No, but that's the catch Go for it. - Its good ? Whatever they are Errors must be quickly corrected. The teacher keeps watch. It's a little wonky, so - OK. Very well. And you don't have to We just opened so it would be nice if we could That's why you offer them an aperitif, one bottle for two cups If they don't want now, To want to be everywhere which is playing. Customers are out of wine. - Yes sir ? Yes, the wine is coming, sir. There he is I want - Are there any small omissions? In the kitchen, To be continued, a bass and a zander! it's not much better. Inflexible, to want to achieve I swear to you that the man, His teacher, sink into error. Go ahead, send it. Claire, you can send me Fish Chief, We'll see, Just a minute later... Yes sir ? Lack of cooking. Return to sender. You see, who want It's not cooked there. You put it in the trash For Tristan, it's the customers But he will eventually give in Now, Twenty three hours, and the fireplace Yes but here Just now Maybe it's better You didn't like it In a school, to bring a little creative side, It's incredible. To finish your meal, As wants the two chiefs - Good evening ladies and gentlemen. No. Me, I have been Oh, well done! I just wanted to have and the service We forced ourselves from the beginning Do they deserve Yes, widely. It's nice, with full It's nice to see that customers, It was not seen We have seen it. Now the customers, no, because we are coming to continue that they don't realize it. For this evening, Victor, a 15 out of 20. As for Tristan, the teacher preferred not to write it down. He did however According to the Ferrandi school, at the end of their studies.