Top 10 Most Popular Speedrunning Videos Being quarantined sucks, and it's gotten of speedrunning videos to watch. But this made me wonder, are there any big I know about? I mean speedrunning has been around for over that have levels or modes with speedrun in speedrunners, so I wouldn't be surprised with a huge number of views on them. I've always known speedrunning was really just how much. I hope you all enjoy. The first spot on this list comes from the Legend for his video 10 Speedrunners Who Were I remember exactly when this video came out so many views every speedrunning commentary I was getting 4 times my normal daily views For a long time before this we never really commentary content. There was my Accidental Skips Discoveries In Speedrunning which were 3 or 4 million to be around 5 million views, but this video And honestly, I'm not surprised in the least. Cheaters in speedrunning have always brought video featuring 10 cheaters, back when not to be successful. I was still left with the impression that may never grow to the same success, but since Summoning Salt, Karl Jobst and Bismuth that content will always have the potential to I would like to note that I'm not a huge the image that speedrunning is riddled with in all of these videos the cheaters were caught Getting away with a cheated run is very difficult within the community before anyone will give of day. I really like the point that Karl Jobst made on Youtube that cheating is much more often like they deserve the result of a world record without being able to execute that perfect Without having inside knowledge or ripping very unlikely for some random person to waltz time. I think the biggest reason why we don't little benefit to doing so. All of the people that have cheated thus far and usually did all of their gameplay offline video which often wouldn't do well without big part of what makes world record runs so I've actually seen a lot of articles that of which I actually was interviewed for, but fit that narrative. So, I just wanted to get my feelings on that this in a video before, but hey I have no hell I've even made one myself. These videos introduce a lot of people to about it, and I'd have to assume that's The next run on this list is a Minecraft Set Traditionally with speedrunning videos, the to be world record runs for obvious reasons. But in this case Funderful's run wasn't another runner called TheeSizzler, so how Minecraft speedrun? Well if you're getting 11 million views most likely has no idea what speedrunning They probably have no idea leaderboards exist they just wanted to see the game be beaten I did take a look at TheeSizzler's channel why his videos weren't blowing up to the was posted. None of his runs have the word speedrun in to show up on search or be shown in the suggested therefore way less likely to get a featured isn't monetized, which I'm not sure if But Funderful's video did have the word up getting a lot of time on recommended. If anything, this is proof that if you're your personal best speedruns on YouTube and titles since you really never know who may I know not every speedrunner is worried about views, but keep in mind that your videos not community and how many new people get involved goes a long way, especially in this case. The next run on this list a Super Mario Odyssey and SomethingElseYT on commentary. This video was posted on January 29th 2018, game. Since its release Super Mario Odyssey has to speedrun around the world, but that's so well. The Odd1sOut is one of if not the most popular known for his story time videos that I find So, I think the video's success was a combination popular game on the switch with 16.59 million creators featured in it, and also the easily creating a speedrunning video. Usually when people watch speedruns they watch time build up really helps videos perform Also, TheOdd1sOut edited down the speedrun a way he was way ahead of the curb as far Regardless I thought it was a fun video and speedrunning that previously hadn't heard And even though this speedrun was far from really fun to watch through with a lot of Before moving on with the video I want to to support Feeding America. If you haven't heard of this charity before US dedicated to providing resources for food Given the current crisis and food shortages this charity. And in order to help promote the charity and get competitions, all of which will have $250 Basically, how this is going to work is I day after this video is posted over on my has the first competition posted. And for every $1500 raised for Feeding America until we reach our goal of $15,000 is reached and if Something even bigger, I just don't know what it is yet It's really important to me with these competitions them and that top times will not be required I'll make sure to provide the resources to get you all started on your very first The donation link will be in the pinned comment you to softgiving. In your donation comments let me know which competitions made for. I'd also be really interested in running if anyone has any good ideas for those. Thank you for listening and I hope you enjoy Next on this list is the Banned from PS4 Speedrun 14 million views. In this speedrun spllitz utilized his knowledge fast menuing and headed to the PS wallpaper An interesting strat he used here was skipping there would probably give the opposite effects After posting the image the rest of the speedrun (Leave a thumbs up if you appreciate the Closed Captions :) Alright so last video had 14 million views, 20 million views. This is a speedrun I think everyone was expecting surprise when I say the next run is DoodleBob in 25 minutes by Listern. If you for some reason haven't heard of paragraph Wikipedia article that somebody Apparently, this is a fan game made by TechnoSuperguy Hedgehog if anyone has ever heard of that. This game was meant to be a birthday present it's honestly pretty wholesome. I spent some time playing this game on stream what it actually was. I feel like the pencil mechanics were pretty the drawn platforms only needing to be used to kill enemies as you could just damage abuse Most of the bosses could be cheesed easily I actually really enjoyed the final boss fight on because I wasn't expecting it to be so But why does this have 20 million views on I have no idea... most popular flash game in the world, the This game was published in 2008 by Snubby Move a red square to the end of each level But while the premise is simple, actually difficult which is why the game is accurately So there were 2 videos I could have picked 6 minute and 39 second deathless speedrun actually a playthrough of this game that was was also deathless in a time of 8:37. This wasn't initially listed as a speedrun, qualifies and also has 16 million views. Since then Hachimen has improved his time leaderboards. But the most interesting thing about his most 2018, and his first personal best was posted from each other. It really is not that often you see someone years. I recently watched Nicroveda play through so skilled at several different video games It took him roughly 3 hours and 643 deaths So, could you really consider this the world's I'm not so sure... but the world's hardest Next up on this list is Getting Over It with Bennett Foddy by Lockness06 with 22 million Getting Over It was released as part of the being a really difficult platformer. You use your mouse to scale up this mountain would otherwise cause you to fall and lose Naturally these easy to understand games with as runners try to understand nuances of the But this video wasn't actually posted by Yeah, around this time IGN noticed the spike would reach out to several speedrunners and their channel. If you're a speedrunner and IGN ever approaches Because while you may be thinking, but EZScape that be amazing exposure towards my Twitch Who cares if IGN reposts the video, monetizing and subscribers for doing practically nothing? Well if we check socialblade Lockness at most 22 million views. So, you can clearly see here how this isn't But I do have to give credit where credit devs react series on YouTube where they have video games they created. It's unique content that we haven't really My personal favorite is the DOOM Eternal one I'd highly recommend checking that out, speedruns. The next videos on this list are the animated I really cannot emphasize how much with the most viewed video being this Breath Just to show how much impact this video had about the any% category that still have the the same month as this video, and I really This content is very entertaining and also out what the speedruns look like in the actual Honestly, I just think this creator makes them would have to be their video Speedrunner perfection. I'll be sure to have it linked in the description already. Alright guys we are getting pretty close to Before I show the next speedrun video I want during research. For some reason in late 2011 to early 2013 off on YouTube recommended and getting an being very low. The videos literally look like they were viewbotted, Let me show you what I found. First is a Super Mario 64 120 Star Speedrun Outside of the other speedruns I'll be mentioning to why this video did so well as when it was In the early stages of SM64 120 star world to pick up traction, the first sub 1 hour and the leaderboards were absolutely dominated Honey, Nero and of course Elmo all until Siglemic late 2011. Let me quickly go over the rest of the videos. New Super Mario Bros DS TAS, 9 million views. Super Mario 64 70 Star BLJLess TAS 16 million New Super Mario Bros Wii 100% Speedrun 10 New Super Mario Bros U any% speedrun 36 Million "This has more views than Wii U's Sold" I really didn't want to have a bunch of of the video so I kept them to this one spot, that I think is the most interesting is this of 2006 with nearly 36 million views. This was the first Super Mario 64 TAS ever game TAS ever made which used the 16-star There's no real surprise why this video of the first full playthroughs of Super Mario so it had good video quality compared to most it beat the game in an unbelievable short God I can only imagine the confusion on peoples' BLJ across every level. Unfortunately, the YouTube channel that uploaded across every video, and I'm not really sure I would have loved reading back through some If you've ever watched any tool-assisted actually stumbled across this YouTube channel uploading TAS videos instead of... well TASVideos. Apparently from reading the bio the owner websites speedruns.org and speedruns.net and be some general speedrunning websites. I'm assuming they were abandoned due to not wanting to compete with them. But this WebNations channel was a director it could upload videos that were over 10 minutes longer speedruns and TASes are archived today. Before we get to the final video on this list, everyone was expecting to see on this list, 10 spot. I'm of course talking about the 4:56.878 This speedrun was one of the biggest milestones a spectacle to the outside world for so many Darbian just has this sort of calm presence persists you can noticeably see his heart enthusiastic as everyone knows they are about The ending is just emphatic, Darbian breaks face of someone who has worked hard to accomplish done before. I also found a Reddit post by Darbian where to him personally. What's funny is Darbian only expected this up taking a year and 15 days for him to finally I guess I felt the need to include this run speedrunner to so many people. But one day, like the Avatar, he vanished. But after his 20-month hiatus Darbian has posted a Q&amp;A video explaining his absence. I just have huge respect for Darbian for making something which I don't feel like is discussed even stigmatized at points. I feel like I wouldn't have made this video first. It's completely normal to feel that type isn't under your control, and I think it's okay to If you're a fan of Darbian and have been this is a video that could help you out as on, and that's pretty much all I want to So, without further ado the last speedrun 4 by Family Gaming TV. Now I don't know much about Roblox, but This video has about the same amount of views Alright everybody I hope you enjoyed this If you did be sure to leave a like as it's As a reminder I am partnered with SoftGiving you would like to help contribute the donation comment. There will also be $2500 in various speedrunning Speedruns everyday for the next 10 days and I will create another $250 competition until of 20 different competitions. I feel like this is a great way to raise money which we can't do anyways right now, and the community to try attempting their very The goals I have in mind should be achievable everyone who competes will have an equal chance If there are certain games and categories know in your donation comment. Anyways guys that's all I have to say, subscribe as always, I hope you all have a beautiful