Now I'm no military man - but as a word fan, I can see there's something very wrong with Etymologically speaking they're all in the wrong come from and you see we have chiefs being led It's a mess! But in this video, and potentially make some I'll come up with a new hierarchy we all can use And while I'm at it, I'll answer some of why is Colonel spelt like that, not that? And how are you actually meant So fall in, eyes front. It's time for a As we rewrite the rankings Welcome to another RobWords. Before we get into full swing with the re-ranking, we've got to sort out some I wasn't sure where to start with this, QUITE LITERALLY - it's loo-tenant (or leftenant... for "place holder" or "holding". Lieu Tenant. It another person. They've basically had a job But let's face it, the issue here isn't There's basically no trace of it ever anglicized versions of those components. Nowadays it's the Americans who come loo-tenant - which, though much more true kind of sounds like the occupant of a restroom. In the armed forces of pretty much every other LEF-TENANT. Which is frankly baffling, isn't So why is it pronounced like that? of the many unsolved mysteries of English. or something like it, in England for a long time. Since the Middle English William the Conqueror brought his fancy French Various spellings of the word show how it was being said out loud. One of the most popular theories for why in the Middle English period the letters So perhaps people saw lieu-tenant, It seems plausible, doesn't it? But the have rejected that idea saying it "does Another theory is simply that English speakers were mishearing how the French speakers quirk of Old French pronunciation, and Anyway, by the time we get to the 17th century, English settled on the French spelling - but So loo-tenant slash lef-tenant on our new ranking. But where Let's march on with this idea their pronunciations, and look What on earth is going on here? Well the reason for the weird spelling is Firstly, in the 16th century from Notice anything? NO STUPID EXTRA L!! And it's from that spelling that we add a few centuries of lazy English speech and But our spelling of colonel Not long after importing the French word, Italian military texts. Influenced by the started using a spelling of colonel In the meantime, the French had also because they realised it was more true Colonel derives ultimately from the Latin leader of a column of soldiers. And is exactly a place holder. So I'm keeping Colonel above The next stop as we meander is another weird looking word: SERGEANT. Again the spelling doesn't we say it. But the spelling does give us a Because we have another word in English and which we spell in a very similar. In Both the words sergeant and from Old French and both of them come from In Middle English the word could but its usage to mean a common These days it can take over a decade of obviously makes no sense when all that's why sergeant is definitely going to And while we're at it, let's put sergeant major in "bigger" or "greater". It sits alongside "Magnus", So a sergeant major is, etymologically speaker, Hardly worthy of higher rank than a So Sergeant Major (or just Major, as Now, there's nothing too controversial here. is in the British Army these days. But I Because in real life a Major outranks a captain. The word Captain again comes to English from it back to the Latin word caput. Which means chapter, decapitate and even - So if captain means head, where else can it go but... the top! And do you know who else is Don't be fooled by the look of the word "corporal punishment" for example, or &quot;corpse&quot;, which just means "body". The word corporal in the sense ultimately from the Latin word caput - via So, although corporal normally slots in behind sergeant as well, I'm boosting it up to the Next up, one of the more There's no special trick with the word here. and me - sort of, common, applicable So as a title in itself, it doesn't really make That's because it's actually not Captain General - which is one of those weird like attorney general or procurator fiscal So a general is in fact a general head... a run-of-the-mill head. So I'm popping Right, we've just done heads, so now let's do privates. What's so private about a private? This is The title harks back to the Medieval British term hired by some fancy nobleman who was hoping to They were private as opposed Nowadays, it's the lowest rank. There's a lot beat me up so. Plus a soldier is major the servant is. So I'm Okay, let's finish on a biggie. The top So on the face of it, it looks pretty solid. They are the marshal of the field - the It's only when we dig a little that things start to take a turn for the worse. Do not confuse THIS word with this word. Because this type of martial could barely be more of war - it means "belonging But we're not talking about this martial. We're talking about this marshal. And It means... "one who looks after the horses". like a sergeant, but a servant to a Oh dear, that's not going to go down So there we have it! Order - based entirely on what those words who got a hefty promotion. Commiserations Leave your approval or And to my military friends remember - it's just a bit of fun. I'm sure your stripes Thanks for watching. Please and watch one of my other videos