Hey there guys Paul here from TheEngineeringMindset.com. In this video we're going to be looking at what a kilowatt hour is. We're gonna cover kilowatt hours, watts, kilowatts, and joules, converting between watts and kilowatts, also how to calculate with some worked examples towards the end. And lastly, how to calculate your monthly electricity bill. Now you've probably noticed will show you've been which we use, and when you buy electrical goods they are rated in Ws or kWs. Your electricity bill is rated in kWh, which means kilowatt hour. This is how much power was Power multiplied by time equals energy, so let's quickly look at what a kilowatt is and then we'll come with some calculations, and this will make things a lot easier. On the electrical goods you purchase you'll see a value stated in W or kW, meaning watts or kilowatts. This is the power demand of the item, it tells us how much energy per second this will demand in order to work. You can see this air heater and this light bulb is rated at 100 watts. Kilo means 1000, and named after the engineer To be precise, a watt and a kilowatt hour equals 3.6 megajoules. What is a Joule? A Joule is an amount of energy transferred to do some work. Our food contains energy and we consume this to But in this case a Joule is the amount of energy dissipated as heat when an electric current of one Amp passes through a resistance of one Ohm for one second. If you want to learn more then you can watch one of our other videos on how electricity works. The link is on the screen or you can see the description box below. You can convert kilowatts to watts simply by multiplying by 1,000. So one kilowatt multiplied You can also convert watts to kilowatts simply by dividing by a 1,000, so 100 watts divided by To work out how much electricity we need to know how much and how long it will be switched on for. We can see that this item If you don't know the you can buy one of these which will tell you the volts, the amps, the watts, and also the kilowatt hours. They're pretty cheap and very easy to use, so I'll leave a link in if you want one of these Now back to the heater. So we want to know how many We know we can use the energy formula, which is energy equals We also know that the power and that this will run for three hours. So two kilowatts multiplied by three hours equals six kilowatt hours. But what if the heat We can still use the energy formula, but because we're we need to convert the seconds into hours. So there are 60 minutes and an hour and 60 seconds per minute. So 60 multiplied by 60, gives We can then convert the 30 seconds runtime into hours by dividing That means we will run for 0.0083 hours. So two kilowatts equals 0.0167 kilowatt hours. How about smaller items Let's say we have a 60 watt light bulb and it is switched on for 10 hours, we still use the formula energy equals power multiplied by time, but we need to convert as we're invoiced in kilowatt hours. So 60 divided by 1,000 is 0.06 kilowatts, and 0.06 kilowatts multiplied equals 0.6 kilowatt hours. If we want to calculate the cost, then we simply multiply the by the electricity tariff set per kilowatt hour. If we look at the heater fan, which is two kilowatts, and we run this for three hours, then two kilowatts equals six kilowatt hours. Our electricity company at 10 cents per kilowatt hour, so six kilowatt hours multiplied by 0.1 dollars per kilowatt How about calculating our for the month? Well we need to create a table in the building, then we note down their power. Remember to quantify how and ensure that each item Then we need to calculate they will be switched on for. From there we can calculate for each item using multiplied by a time formula. Once you've done this for all the items, just add up the values and this will give you a total kilowatt hour consumption per month. Once you know this you Don't forget they will on the suppliers invoice, So you know if you need this in there, then you can build these in Ok that's it for this video, I hope you liked it and it has helped you. Don't forget to Like, and if you have any questions leave them in the comment section below. And also don't forget TheEngineeringMindset.com.