Thanks to Great Courses Plus for supporting PBS. They say that a watched pot never boils. This has now been proven true by quantum mechanics. "A moving arrow is at rest." This is obviously a nonsensical contradiction. But Zeno, Greek philosopher famous for his conclusion is just this. Here's how it goes: if you look at an arrow snapshot in time, the arrow doesn't travel If time is composed of an infinite number move in any of them, then the arrow is at The moving arrow is at rest. Nowadays, most physicists and mathematicians don't really see Zeno's arrow as paradoxical. We think of an instant as a vanishingly the moving arrow travels a vanishingly small distance - but the "vanishingly small" part cancels out and the arrow's instantaneous velocity is very real. That's what a mathematician might tell you two to say about extremely tiny distances In fact, if we're talking about a quantum simply by looking at it, through the aptly The quantum Zeno effect predicts that certain quantum events - like the electrons moving between atomic energy levels, or the decay simple act of observation. I'm going to tell you about some very real this phenomenon. But first, let's see if the Quantum Zeno arrow. First we'll give our arrow a few weird behaviours befitting a good quantum object: we have quantization - certain properties of our arrow can only an electron can only occupy certain energy In this case let's say our quantum arrow's at the start and end of its path, but not In order to travel from start to end, it has intervening space. One way to do that is by executing a quantum jump, which we discussed in our recent episode. OK, the next quantum property we need is superposition. Just like Schrodinger's cat, our quantum arrow can exist in multiple states That means it can be at the start and end It could be 50-50 split between the two, or Now, you never actually see it in both states Rather, each state has an amplitude that determines the probability of finding the arrow in that state were you to try to observe it. In the language of the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics, we say that the "wavefunction collapses" on observation. Prior to that observation, the arrow exists of its position; its wavefunction is spread But after observation it collapses to definitely one or the other - at least, according to Copenhagen - and we'll be coming back to This superposition thing actually gives our and gradually, but still without occupying And maybe for us to save ourselves in the Here's the scenario: someone shoots a quantum arrow at you. It begins in the pure state of being entirely a superposition of states - mostly at the If you observe the arrow now, most likely but there's a small chance it would suddenly appear at the final state - having reached you. But if there's no observation the wavefunction evolves - less and less amplitude at the starting state and more and more at the end state - until it finally enters the pure state of definitely hitting you. Two ways this can play out: the arrow leaves the quantum bow with a quantum twang. In shock you close your eyes for a second, wavefunction to evolve smoothly into the state of quantum ouch. But what if you keep your eyes open? Every observation you make of the arrow collapses its wavefunction into one of its possible positions - start or end. But because you start watching it close to little probability of it collapsing to the Your observation resets the trajectory to has to start evolving from scratch - but you again through the magic of the Quantum Zeno Effect. So the message is clear - if anyone ever tries to shoot you with a quantum arrow, don't blink. Of course arrows don't really behave this real quantum systems should do. If a system can occupy two discrete states transition can be halted if you continuously This has actually been tested for electron about the experiments in a minute. But in principle this would also work for The basic idea of the quantum Zeno effect got a full theoretical description in the And then in 1990, a group of scientists headed up by David Wineland and Wayne Itano claimed to have demonstrated it in an experiment by These were some of the same people who first demonstrated quantum jumps, and using a similar scheme that we described in that episode. To recap - we have a collection of laser-cooled atoms in an electromagnetic trap. A constant radio-frequency field is tuned two energy levels - call them 1 and 2. Just like our quantum arrow, sometimes an but in between it's a smoothly-varying superposition of both. Next they flash the atoms with a laser whose frequency matches the energy difference between state 1 and a new state, state 3. If the electron is in state 1 when the laser jumps to 3, and then immediately drop back that the researchers can detect - so the atoms glow during these laser pulses. On the other hand, if the atom is in state photon and the atom would stay dark. But what if the laser hits while the electron of states 1 and 2? According to the wavefunction collapse picture, it has to make a choice - the superposition must vanish and the electron will be seen According to the researchers, the laser acts should be able to freeze quantum arrows and presumably also electron transitions via the Quantum Zeno Effect. To test this, the researchers start the atoms series of very rapid laser pulses. In theory, if these "measurements" are from evolving. And they report that it did exactly this. The faster the chain of pulses, the more likely that atoms remained in state 1 - which they could check with one final pulse to see if Long story short: it appears you can freeze Further studies have claimed successful observation of the quantum Zeno effect, including various studies of atomic energy levels, as well as phenomenon that allows particles to "teleport" out of nuclei during nuclear decay. It's even been proposed that the quantum reactions that give birds their ability to about before. So there we have it. Quantum Zeno effect verified? Well, not quite. A flurry of papers came out after the 1990 and the arguments have continued. But I want to highlight one particular point. The physicist Leslie Ballentine argued that that causes the quantum Zeno effect, but rather it's a physical consequence of interacting with the system. In this case, hitting the atoms with a laser Ballentine's objection gets to the very do we mean by a "measurement" and what Let's start with measurement. It's never possible to perform a measurement without interacting with a system, and that interaction has consequences beyond just increasing our knowledge. If the measurement interaction is subtle enough then you might hope to gain that info without perturbing the system too much. Ballentine showed that each laser photon perturbed the system in such a way that the electron had an increased chance to jiggle back to And to achieve a true quantum Zeno-like freezing you'd need to hit the atom with many, many photons - and that was certainly not a "subtle" measurement. Recently, a group of researchers from Washington University claim to have proved that it's perturbation, not measurement, that causes with the right type of "jiggling" a quantum than to freeze - in what's called the anti-Zeno effect. Another way to think about measurement is from the system. The idea is that measurement causes wavefunction collapse because it scrambles the delicate information connecting different parts of Superposition only exists if the different correlated with each other. We would say that the wavefunction for different electron states or quantum arrow positions are in phase with each other, or "coherent". But that coherence is easy to mess up. Any interaction causes information to quickly spread into the environment. Decoherence occurs, and the different parts realities, can no longer interact. In fact, as argued by Ballentine, you can state without true decoherence. But to get a full quantum Zeno effect - a arrow - you need to perfectly measure it, of wavefunction collapse. So on to wavefunction collapse. In the Copenhagen interpretation, only the the measurement outcome survives. But in the Many Worlds interpretation, the you split with it. Obviously we've talked about decoherence what the quantum Zeno effect looks like in The effect should still exist, because Many But in this case, you're not forcing the position through the power of observation. Your interaction with the wavefunction causes it to decohere - which means two things - you perturb the system in a non-subtle way. For example, by forcing the electron or quantum In Many Worlds, that means generating separate realities corresponding to the possible outcomes. If you do it right you'll produce more "worlds" in which the system goes back to its starting state. And then you enter the world of of the possible outcome states - again, most likely the starting position. But if your observation wasn't perfect, state is chosen rather than the starting state. Like I said, if someone shoots you with a The quantum Zeno effect appears to be very real - but its interpretation is still hotly debated. And perhaps some of this is just semantic and interaction? And what is wavefunction collapse? But quantum zeno experiments are difficult, us clues to unravel the deepest mysteries So there you have why a watched quantum pot never boils. And it's because you did watch space time. Thanks to Great Courses Plus for supporting PBS. The Great Courses Plus is a subscription on-demand video learning service with lectures and courses from professors from top universities and Through your subscription, you'll get access interests you...science, math, history, literature, or even how to cook, play chess, or become a better photographer. If you've enjoyed our recent series on time deeper, you should check out Mysteries of In the course you'll explore everything entropy and learn what cutting-edge science has to say about the nature of time. To learn more, check out TheGreatCoursesPlus.com/spacetimepbs to start your trial today. Last time we gave you an update on the crisis in cosmology - the tension between the expansion rate of the universe measured at the beginning of the universe with the cosmic microwave background, and in the more modern universe measured with supernovae. TLDR: the so-called Hubble tension is getting stronger. Patrick Bryant offers some excellent clarification, pointing out that that the CMB number isn't actually a &quot;measurement&quot; of the current rate because that light comes from the Instead, it provides us with an enormous amount of information about the composition and expansion of the universe back then. We then use our cosmological models to predict what the expansion rate should be today. For example, based on the amount of matter and dark energy, we can figure out now much the expansion should have slowed or sped up. And the value we get is different to what The tension could therefore be resolved by measurements, but also by finding one of the assumptions in the CMB calculation is wrong - which would force us to change our model That would be the most exciting case, in my In might, for example, tell us that dark energy has changed over time - which might help us figure out what dark energy actually is. Max Graham asks how gravitational waves encode the distance that they've traveled. Glad you asked! The intensity of light drops off with the square of the distance traveled. If you know the true brightness, or luminosity, measuring the distance-dimmed brightness lets you calculate that distance. Trouble is you can't get that luminosity directly from the light by itself. But it's different with gravitational waves The intensity or amplitude of those waves But the important thing is that the amplitude of the wave is directly encoded in the frequency of the wave. As black holes spiral towards each other, is pretty uniquely determined by the so-called chirp-mass, which is a combination of the masses of both black holes. But that chirp mass also determines the power that was radiated in gravitational waves during the inspiral. So, measuring the inspiral frequency gets amplitude before it fades over distance. So then the amplitude of the wave as we see it at Earth tells us how much distance the wave must have traveled. I said at the start of the episode that it's Hidden Marty offers this correction: Scientists love when OTHER scientists are proven wrong. I gotta hand it to you, that's even more exciting, especially if those other scientists were the ones saying that YOU were wrong. But the point is that scientists do celebrate point us towards increasing knowledge. And it's really worth pointing out that this everything is hard baked into the scientific Scientists are wrong a lot, but their wrongness is self-correcting. Tumasch says Ugh, cosmology, I can't be bothered with YOUR crisis right now... Tumasch, the beauty of science is that it Its crisis is everyone's crisis. Whether it's a full blown existential crisis, in your neck from staring at too much supernova data. Science, the great unifier.