(strumming guitar) - (sigh) Alright, so What new hell have we sunk to now here in the United States of- - [Voiceover] They ask you how you are and you just have say that you're fine and you're not really fine but you just can't get into it because they would never understand-- - Well, it's a Kentucky Police patrol car with a blue lives matter, thin blue line, Punisher skull on the hood. Um... There's a lot to unpack here. But let's stick to tradition and begin by examining the skull. The skull is the symbol of &quot;The Punisher&quot;, the Marvel comics' vigilante anti hero. The Punisher's real but he changed it to Frank Castle, I guess 'cause he's ashamed Disappointing. Frank Castle is an ex-Marine whose wife and kids are leaving him an empty husk of a man whose only consolation is Nyaa. There's been a lot of of &quot;The Punisher&quot; and as I did watch all of them. And my conclusion is that the best one is the 1989 version where Dolph Lundgren dyes his hair black to pass as Sicilian and runs around naked worshiping the god of You know, just like the police do. (police chatter on radio) Hi, I'm Nyatalie. Creator of &quot;Catrapoints&quot; and no, I'm not a catgirl. I'm a catwoman. I'm sorry you're intimidated by that. Look I'm tired of only being valued for my petite, heterosexual body. I'd like to be recognized as a wife and (piano music) as a woman with values. Just kidding, I'm trash. Let's talk about justice, uwu. Justice is when I get The Punisher's main quest who murdered his family. But once he gets revenge, because it's the only to his shitty life. So he wages a one-man But no matter how many bad guys he kills, it's never enough because and take the place of the old ones. It's like a cycle where and nothing ever really changes. It's almost like this comic book is trying to tell us something about the nature of crime and punishment. But you know what? Let's not overthink this. Sure, just slap a giant skull on the car. Great. Perfect. - Are we the baddies? - Look, maybe you're assuming ANTIFA-sympathizing, big who sits behind my iPhone with my latte, criticizing the police, even though I could never do a job 1/10 as difficult as theirs. And to that I say, how dare you assume things This is, excuse me, a There's just nothing better and having the first dose of the chemical you're addicted to. They tried to make me go to rehab, I said, &quot;Nyaa, nyaa, nyaa.&quot; But you seem like a reasonable person, a person of science, a seasoned vendor, the free marketplace of ideas gorg. And as a reasonable person, I'm sure you wouldn't dismiss my argument just because I happen to enjoy head pats. As Socrates once said, &quot;Two plus two is four is equally true whether uttered by a philosopher Or a nekomimi. Kawaii desu! (laughs) Is this problematic? Cringe culture is dead This is beyond cringe. This is cursed, children, cursed. So actually Socrates I just made it up but that just proves the point I'm making. so maybe you should hear me out, nyaa. I'm making this video at a of police brutality are spurring on a movement to And at the same time, there's a growing culture where justice is taken into demanding accountability and All of this raises a lot of what should the consequences Who should impose these consequences? And under what circumstances If we were to abolish police and prisons, what would take their place? Oh my god, these contacts. I'm literally doing a whole video with f*cking sideways cat eyes. Ridiculous. Why don't we start with the what is justice, Socrates? It's a question philosophers have pondered for thousands of years with no conclusive answers. I think I can probably figure 'cause the philosophers were dummies and I am very smart, nyaa. Ra ra Rasputin. One, revenge. &quot;The Punisher&quot; represents about what justice is symbolized by the skull so the bad guys know they're &quot;The Punisher's view is that justice means harming people who harm people. An eye for an eye. This is called retributive justice. The idea that people who commit crimes deserve punishment in It's a very emotionally because it's rooted in our instinct to strike back at someone who's harmed us. Social animals like humans and chimpanzees often practice revenge, probably because it serves If another monkey in your and you don't get revenge then other monkeys will learn But if you get revenge on the letting her boyfriend pick then that sends a message that it is not profitable So our little monkey brains have evolved a taste for vengeance. And even in cases where it our desire for retribution is strong. And our little monkey brains reward us with a pleasant when justice of this kind is served. So of course there's a devoted to scratching this itch. For example, there's a with 1 1/2 million subscribers. I first found JusticeServed when the popular feed showed me this post of two teenage thieves, and photographed as punishment and all this celebrated under In fact, before the murder the description of the community was, now with 20% more police brutality! Fun fact, this ain't it, chief. Period, full stop. That's the tweet. Of course I subscribed to someone should be keeping Here's a typical Justice Served post, woman sets P-E-D-O husband on fire after catching him R-*-P-E titled, this man got what he deserved. Instant regret, predator exposed. To be honest, when I wrote I forgot I was gonna be wearing cat ears. I'm really out here trying about immolating sex offenders while dressed like an aging bargain bin, Belle Delphine impersonator. Well, dress for the job you want. I mean, whomst amongst us wouldn't set their husband on fire under those circumstances, right? Let's look at the comments Let's read the room. She's a hero in my opinion. Should have had it live on television. Give her a medal. Give her two medals. So most people are in favor but you know, there's always a couple buzzkills in there whining as usual about &quot;oh, maybe we shouldn't be cheering on burning people alive with no due process and no evidence.&quot; &quot;Lots of men like to f*ck my wife 'cause I'm too busy But those people get They get called pedo-symps. (laughs) Pedo-symps. So JusticeServed is a community for people to gather together and bond over our shared love But of course there's always someone who takes it a little too far. On this video of a thief until his face is a bloody pulp, one commenter says, &quot;That's I dream of the day I catch the thieves that stole from me and Criminal fail, prank gone wrong. So when the righteous zeal for justice becomes the cloak of blood lust, that is off-putting to some people. As one disgruntled former I wanted to see stories getting their comeuppance. Instead I got bombarded with an angry, toxic, moral absolutism. Everything is black and white with them. If you don't support mutilating then you must support giving and letting them fuck your wife. Unsubscribed. But even this liberal &quot;videos of assholes I think pretty much everyone is capable of enjoying some version There's a lot of sub genres. You've got Justice Porn, Play Stupid Games Win Stupid Prizes, Instant Karma, Bad Parking Revenge, Predator Poaching. - Why don't you just shoot me? Serial killer sentenced to death and the whole train clapped, instant justice was served, karma fails, stupid people getting A lot of this content has kind of a right wing feel to it. Unmarked police justice, criminal gets shot after fighting cop, home invader takes shotgun Arizona, just Arizona. What about more is there to say? Arizona. Justice served, punished. It reminds me of NRA people who spend 10 hours a day they're gonna kill home intruders with the gun they keep in the bathroom. But I don't think this is distinctively right-wing. Left-wing people have the They just have it in different situations. Think about the jubilation on Twitter when they get a racist Karen fired. Remember that ugly hag Lisa in front of an apartment building? Karma. And she got her husband fired. Dumb bitch really should Love to see it. She will probably end up with but I would love to see her in Firing them was not enough. Life in prison! (laughs) Life (clap) in An example I personally enjoy is that video of Daniel Holtzclaw, the cop who abused his power to sexually assault a crying in court as he's sentenced to serve 263 years in prison. He just cannot believe that he's actually facing And of course there was the of N-A-Z-I Richard Spencer. Let's watch it now. Please try not to enjoy this. Remember, this is purely for educational, monetizable purposes. - It's uh Pepe, he's (crowd noises) - That was informative. the reason that video was so popular is people just enjoyed watching an N-A-Z-I get what he deserves. Justice served. Punished. Smashing. Very happy gay sounds, uwu. Remember to smash Subscribe. So this punitive, retributive impulse, no matter how righteous it feels, is still basically a of schadenfreude. The satisfaction of justice served is the pleasure we take in the suffering of someone who deserves it. Now the phrase &quot;deserves it&quot; is doing a lot of work here. The correct use of that between a morally well-adjusted person and someone who's hiding It puts the lotion on its skin, nyaa. But people generally agree that those who harm others It's why we love stories about revenge. Stories like &quot;Mean Girls&quot;, &quot;The Crow&quot;, &quot;Old Boy&quot;, &quot;Titus - Much too good for children! Revenge is such a popular plot line because it's easy for people to identify with a revenge-seeking protagonist. And it's just the easiest about spectacles of violence. This technique was used in &quot;The Odyssey&quot; by Homer. I stole this copy from my high school and I stole this copy from my college. I still just read the SparkNotes. Well, let's read it now. See, I knew this would be useful someday. God, he's such a f*ckboy. What does Athena see in this man? He must be really hot. Okay, I'm ready for my book report. So the hero of the story is Odysseus and the whole book is to the island of Ithaca after... Okay, so in the prequel, Odysseus' shitty friend, after his wife leaves him to she was actually attracted to how dare she? So Menelaus dragged an instead of doing what and blowing off some steam Anyway, when Odysseus he finds that his house is full of men who are eating his food and trying to marry his wife. So Odysseus, and this is he murders all of his and then he rounds up all the slave women who slept with the suitors And there's one suitor, Melanthius, Odysseus ties him up and cuts off his ears and nose and feet and then rips off his And reading this, I guess was this really necessary? Like as a test reader, maybe workshop this? I mean, super unlikable protagonist, really kind of kills it for me. I guess it's a male protagonist and you can get away with 'cause men love hearing about assholes. That's why they watch my channel. But the crazy thing is I don't think Odysseus is The text seems to approve of and to his uh... his slaves. Yikes, disappointing. Casual reminder that It isn't a good look. Wow, this blew up. I don't have a SoundCloud, give me money- Oh my God, this contact This is the last time we're F*ck this! It just seems disproportionate, you know. Like it's not even an eye for an eye because the suitors didn't kill anyone. They were basically just rude to Odysseus. But I guess you have to understand this kind of thing in cultural context. They came into his home and they disrespected his wife and probably she was into it but whatever, we'll play along. So that was an affront to Odysseus' honor. And on the island of Ithaca in the year 1000 BC or whatever, honor was everything. Because this was a pre-legal society. No laws, no courts, no cops, school's out, f*ck 12. (airhorn blast) So honor is a code of conduct And that's what kept people from stealing and lying and murdering each other. Though it was also often the thing causing Because back then honor was the from being taken advantage of. If you're an ancient Mycenaean King and someone invites and drinks your wine well, you can't let 'Cause then people will walk all over you. So you need to get revenge to maintain your reputation as a person who is not to be messed with. It's also the point of hard Hard masculinity is a defensive posture, an intimidating posture. It showcases strength We call it toxic masculinity now because in our society, it's We've moved beyond the need for this, which is why it's If society collapses and we go back to Achilles in Odysseus, I'm in danger. I'm much too delicate for Back in Homer's time, I'd be, well, I'd be a slave at Femboy Symposium. Extremely sad gay sounds, nyaa. But for people in situations where appealing to community is not an option such as kings of ancient Mediterranean islands or gangsters who need to resolve conflicts outside of the law, or wild west cowboys, hard masculinity has a function. It's a warning signal, or the stripes on a poisonous snake. And the poison is vengeance, justice served. So revenge is arguably the most basic form of The philosopher Francis Bacon defined revenge as a &quot;wild justice,&quot; according to the first paragraph of the Wikipedia article about revenge. Research! I am very smart, nyaa. But in most modern legal systems, revenge is frowned upon, An eye for an eye will didn't you know that? If someone harms you and you then his family is gonna try It's a cycle, a cycle of smashing. At the end of &quot;The Odyssey&quot;, the families and the band together and plot to get And literally the last thing is that the goddess Athena, who has an inexplicable steps in and saves him by just making the families forget that Odysseus killed their children. So only divine intervention and amnesia stops the cycle of violence. But in reality, that So these cycles can last for In Albania, there's an which requires a family to commit murder in order to preserve their honor when another family offends against them. Life for life, blood for blood. This historically led to blood feuds between families that And in fact, it still sometimes happens in parts of Northern Albania. There's documentaries on YouTube about families who are trapped at home, possibly for the rest of their lives, because there's a vendetta against them and if they leave the Historically, blood feuds led to a high mortality rate for young men, which may have contributed of what are called Albanian sworn virgins. These are assigned female at birth people who would take a vow for getting to live as men. There's still some of them around, and in a very patriarchal society they're socially recognized as men, allowed to wear men's clothes, use a male name uwu, act as head of a household, and generally have the rights Extremely happy trans sounds uwu. I bring this up just how devastating the Because only desperation hundreds of years ago No one wants that so you - Um, sworn virgins weren't transgender, - Yeah, I know that sweaty. It was just a joke okay calm down. Revenge cycles also between communities, nations, I'm worried if I give a real example, I'll be canceled for seeming neutral about a conflict where I'm So, in the interest of cowardice, let's say that the cat girls bomb the dog girls and then the dog girls bomb the cat girls and that cycle repeats for a few decades. And by that point, both and bitter list of that reconciliation is Extremely angry gay sounds, nyaa. So a revenge-based code of honor is not really an ideal justice system. It's bloody, it's chaotic and it produces these So at some point in the something has to be done caused by vengeance. And the most popular way to do that is to create a state legal system. Two, retribution. The extremely heckin cute Max Weber defined the with a monopoly on the In an honor society with no rule of law, anyone is allowed to kill someone as long as they do so in But once you have the state, usually only the government In ancient Babylon, there who enacted one of the first law codes in the world around 1750 BC, an era that scholars The code of Hammurabi looked like this. The laws were crudely using some primitive attempt at writing. I mean, it was like a I'm sure they were doing their best. It's very good, sweetie. I'll hang it up on the I was expecting this replica to be bigger, sort of a Spinal Tap The actual Hammurabi steles and they were publicly placed in the city so that everyone knew what the laws were, even though most people were illiterate but, hey, they tried sort of. Let's read some of Hammurabi's laws. That's content, right? Catgirl reacts to the code We don't deserve rights (laughs). So there's 282 laws and so if you do X, then the punishment is Y. Law 22, if anyone is committing then he shall be put to death. That's extremely valid. If a son of a paramour or prostitute say to his adoptive father or mother, &quot;You are not my father or my mother&quot;, his tongue shall be cut off. At least they're standing If a man put out the eye of another man, his eye shall be put out. Now we're getting into If he break another man's If a freed man strike the he shall pay 10 shekels in money. But if the slave of a freed man strike the body of a freed man, his ear shall be cut off. Oh, so there's different So it's like our legal If a builder build a house for someone and does not construct it properly and the house which he built fall in and kill its owner, then that If it killed the son of the owner, the son of that builder Love that. Okay, so by modern standards, the code of Hammurabi, it does not pass the vibe check. The vibrations are very negative. It's a lot of cutting people's hands off and burning them alive. Just a major vibe killer all around. But you have to credit Hammurabi's code for resolving the problem of You know, if you live in instead of retaliating and potentially starting a you take your grievance who reach a verdict and impose So the involvement of is one major difference and a state legal system Let's list all the differences. Revenge is personal in the who does the avenging. It's often emotional, an act of passion. It can be disproportionate, as in Odysseus killing the suitors for And it's sadistic, it's Revenge is sweet. On the other hand, a legal is impersonal in the is imposed by a third party, the state, and not the victim. It's therefore disinterested, so not in theory motivated by emotion and also lacking the It's also proportionate, again, in theory. You know, an eye for an eye sounds brutal, but it's an eye for an eye and that could be considered humane compared to say, revenge killing someone's And it's also consistent. So different offenders are supposed to get the same punishment I mean, unless you're rich, in which case, don't you about it, just pay some gold, it's fine. Girl, these contacts, like- (ominous music) So there are supposed between revenge and retributive justice. Which is why it's so to identify with the outlaw Punisher. Modern criminal sentencing while rejecting revenge as lawless. However, I feel that retributive justice is still spiritually akin to revenge. It scratches the same emotional itch. It's basically revenge by proxy. If revenge is wild justice, then retributive justice In both cases, there's a drive of things, to balance out the karma by harming the person who caused harm, sometimes in a poetic justice kind of way. Like in the code of Hammurabi, there's this symbolic retaliation of punishing the body part cutting off the hand cutting off the breasts of the wet nurse who switched the babies, cutting out the tongue There's a kind of aesthetic an appreciation the this For a modern example, from r/instantkarma. &quot;Mugshots.com puts and then demands payment The site's founders were Here are their mugshots.&quot; There's something metaphysically pleasant about poetic justice, this sense of beautiful cosmic harmony. And my guess is that this in some primeval human instinct that's difficult to get rid of. But that doesn't mean we The logic of retribution for thousands of years by philosophers, reformists, messiahs, you know, fancy people who think they're One school of anti-retribution thought we could call the love And the main love and forgiveness guy is a preachy lib you may have heard of called Jesus of Nazareth. Back in Bible times, the Hebrews had laws that were similar to Like in the book of Exodus, God gives a bunch of laws to Moses including some relaunches Viewers at home may to Exodus 21:22. If people are fighting and she gives birth prematurely, but there is no serious injury, the offender must be fined whatever the woman's husband But if there is serious injury, you are to take life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, burn for burn, wound for wound, bruise for bruise. Headpats for headpats. Welcome to catgirl Bible study, nyaa. Extremely devotional gay sounds, uwu. I feel very spiritually aroused right now. My third eye chakra? Dripping. Macaroni in a pot. (Macaroni stirring sound) I need Jesus. I'm so sorry. So the law of Moses is It's basically an eye for an eye, don't be a homo, you know, basic common sense. But then Jesus comes along and he's riding his high In Matthew 26:52, a disciple tries to defend after Judas betrays him but Jesus says, &quot;Put your sword back in All who draw the sword Now, some people read that as saying that violence begets violence even to the point where you which is peak radical centrism. Denying the right of marginalized people to defend themselves? Rethink this. It gets worse. In the sermon on the mount, Jesus says, &quot;Love your enemies and pray Love your enemies? But I No loving, smashing! But maybe, Jesus wasn't You know, religion is and I have my own Bible interpretations. And my personal view is that a lot of what Jesus says is actually sarcasm. Like, consider Matthew 5:38. Why is no one talking about Matthew 5:38? Jesus says, &quot;You've an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. But I say to you, do But if anyone's strikes turn the other also.&quot; Think of the drama of what he's asking you to do here. Someone strikes you across the face and you go, &quot;Uhhhh.&quot; This is not pacifism. This is passive aggression, some sort of primeval Hebrew shade. This is the Christianity of, okay, well, I'll pray for you. But if you do take Jesus at face value then I would argue that and forgiveness as a is not justice at all. It's an alternative to justice. In the absence of justice, forgiveness is an emotional unburdening of the resentment and anger that victims of injustice experience. And religion often provides this release, instructing people not to worry too much about serving earthly justice, because justice is really God's business, and he'll take care of that It's a little bit like there's the idea of karma, which is like a cosmic law that exists independently of You reap what you sow basically, so maybe don't worry about injustice too much 'cause karma will take care of it. This kind of thinking is sometimes called the just world fallacy, the cognitive bias that sees the world as inherently fair and good. &quot;Everything happens for a reason.&quot; If something really horrible happens, like a child is murdered, people say, &quot;There's a special place in God's kingdom for little angels taken up so soon.&quot; And then they'll fantasize and being an*lly demolished People reassure themselves like this because it relieves the stress of enduring unresolved injustice. In the Bible, the book of Job deals with the problem of injustice. Why do bad things happen to good people? And the answer is, just It's part of God's plan. It'll all work out in the end. It's fine. Everything's fine. The alternative is being that the world is just In which case you might start about, I don't know, maybe I guess I should disclaimer and obviously many political activists have been influenced by faith. But let's put a pin in that for now. Three, utilitarianism. So there's also a secular tradition of anti-retribution thinking which tries to define justice as something other than retaliation. Utilitarian reformists have argued that the goal of criminal justice should be to improve society rather than punishment Utilitarianism is the that the right thing to do is whatever causes the highest to human suffering. So the utilitarian approach to punishment looks forward at preventing future crimes, where retribution looks backward revenge by proxy. Some utilitarian punishment punishing criminals as not to offend, or incapacitation or rehabilitation of criminals, trying to educate or discipline them so that they can reenter society. A lot of people consider to be more rational and which is very based in emotions. Also the utilitarian idea even if you don't believe in free will. Cause retribution really only makes sense if you believe that people and are therefore culpable and can be deserving of punishment. Because punishing someone for something they didn't meaningfully The Greek historian about the Persian King Xerxes ordering the sea to be after a storm destroyed his bridge. Which seems irrational, right? To punish a force of nature. Leave my beautiful wet wife alone! It's debatable how free humans are, like we're at least partially our environment, our upbringing, our Hogwarts house, the placement of Venus in our natal chart, dry, oily or combination. And modern criminal sentencing tries to take all of that into consideration. Like you might get a lighter you know, your mother never it was a crime of passion. Through no fault of my own, I was high on bath salts at the time of the tax A lot of the language around punishment in our legal system is utilitarian. Like, prisons are called and not &quot;retribution cages.&quot; But &quot;correctional because the fact is, these facilities are not I'm sorry. In the United States, are rearrested within three years, and 76% are rearrested within five years. And just think about the way Like if someone really we say, &quot;Good, I hope he rots in prison.&quot; Like when was the last time you heard about a criminal sentencing &quot;Good, the proven efficacy of will rehabilitate this man and release him a contributing So even the institutions we have, they are supposed to serve a correctional or rehabilitative function are still obviously I think the problem with while it's very rational, it's often offensive to human emotions. And you can say facts don't we shouldn't be basing our legal system on whatever sadistic caprice And I agree with you, if someone hurts your child, you don't wanna rehabilitate him. You wanna set him on fire. And this disconnect between the legal system and human emotion affects law enforcement too. A YouTuber called Jose has a video called &quot;Why Some Cops Think which argues that some cops and soldiers admire &quot;The Punisher&quot; because they relate to while fantasizing about of his vigilantism. Jose quotes from interviews who say things like, &quot;Castle which, unfortunately, the is littered with and and sometimes even hinder victims of crime from getting the justice they deserve. Frank Castle is the ultimate definition of Occam's razor for the military. Don't worry about uniforms, inspections or restrictive rules of engagement. Find the bad guys. Kill the bad guys. Protect the innocent. Any true warrior? That's the dream.&quot; So these cops and soldiers feel cramped by rules of engagement and that are keeping them from You know, law enforcement if it weren't for all these pesky laws. There's a childish simplicity and dualism to this moral worldview. Find the bad guys, kill the bad guys. Again, it reminds me of the NRA rhetoric about how you need a good guy with a gun to stop a bad guy with a gun. They sound like eight-year-old boys playing Cops and Robbers. &quot;Good guys and bad guys.&quot; That's my impression of And to be fair, I totally understand the People love Justice Served and Instant Karma videos for a reason. We take satisfaction in swift, decisive, elegant retribution. But the procedures of law enforcement and criminal justice don't allow for that. There's all these tedious roadblocks. Right to an attorney, right to remain silent, right to a fair trial, A lot of police wish they by being judge, jury, and executioner. But the function of police to making arrests and initiating They're not supposed to be walking avatars of karma dispensing free-form retribution in the streets at will, justice served, Now with 20% more police brutality. But a lot of people defend the police when they behave like this because the thin-wristed civilians are just as emotionally frustrated by due process as the cops. Wow did I just say &quot;All I'm double canceled. Well look, all lives are bastards but only some bastards and licensed to go bastarding around town. The rest of us have to be I also think there's a secular version of the just world fallacy going on here. People like to think that it must be because that Karma at work, justice served. Victim blaming is an expression you get what you deserve so if something bad happens to you, you must have been asking for it. And obviously racism You know, there's the that occupies Black instead of investing in communities, and people are prejudiced and more likely to think of Black people as criminal thugs and therefore deserving So we get this &quot;no angel&quot; every time a Black person where they bring up the or a picture of them as if that proves they deserved to die. The problem with this, of course, is that no one is an angel. There are no angels walking this earth. We're all flawed, we've all made mistakes, we've all done bad things. That doesn't mean we deserve And then there's people and Elijah McClain who as far as we know were about as close to but that didn't protect them. Though that is 100% beside the point because Black people in America should not literally have to have white feather wings and glowing halos to deserve not to be In fact, people of all races to be low life, drug who contribute absolutely and yet still not be executed by the cops because that's what it's supposed to mean to live in a free country. So, things need to change. The Punisher police have got to go, and a lot of the rest of our We need to imagine a whole And to be honest, that might take more I know at the beginning I what justice is, but... I lied. I'm sorry that I can't fix America. I'm just a lonely cat. I guess the only solution And by revolution, I do mean vote Democrat and then bully the Democrats And if they don't listen, well... (phone rings) Hang on, let me get this. Moshi moshi? Heyhowareyou desu! (hiss) &quot;Catgirl Army&quot; by Zoe Blade