- I want you to listen to these two sounds and decide which is higher. So this is sound A. (sample sound buzzing) And this is sound B. (sample sound buzzing) Okay, so to me, sound A is clearly higher, but that's strange because sound A was just Sound B had that same 100 hertz frequency, but also 150 hertz and 200 hertz. So we added higher frequencies, How does that work? I think there's this idea that what our ears do is simply of vibrations in our 20 hertz and 20,000 hertz. But there is so much more And in this video, we're of audio illusions that of hearing actually works. Most of these effects will work on a phone or laptop speakers, but if you I'd recommend putting them It's like a whole body - Absolutely yeah, yeah. - This is the Sydney Town Hall pipe organ. When it was built in 1890, it was the largest organ in the world. Something I didn't realize about organs is that they were meant to instruments playing together. - Organs are sort of a Very flutie, right? - Yeah. Compare that to a trumpet. Oboe sound. So you can hear all these We could get inside the instrument too. - Should we go look? - Let's have a look. Yeah. - Okay. - For each instrument, in the organ which play all the different notes for that instrument. - I mean, there are 8,000 - 8,000? - 8,000, yeah. - Why do you need that many? - To create all the different - What you see on the outside of the organ itself. Whoa look at all these. - [Titus] They are, yeah. And some are wooden, some are metal. Some have resonators at the bottom of them to create the more reedy But then these wooden ones are more of the deep flutie sounds as well. - This is like what a keyboard? - It's a keyboard. Yeah, that's right. A keyboard layout of pipes. - Very nice you position yourself well... - When two pipes of the they both play the same note. That's because they're both frequency that is the lowest and usually highest amplitude But if the pipes are made they will sound different. So you can tell they are and that's because each of higher frequencies called overtones. They're not as loud as the fundamental, and we don't hear them as distinct tones, but they affect the quality It's how you can tell apart a trumpet from say a flute. They have overtones of and relative amplitudes. For a lot of instruments, the most common overtones of the fundamental frequency. These are known as harmonics. - If this was your fundamental note, the notes that you're gonna So all of those notes are - Now, harmonics can be to play really low notes. The Sydney Town Hall pipe organ is one of only two in the world - It's actually so large that it has to be folded over itself. - Where is the 64? Can we see it? - You've got the grand question that I don't know. I know it's somewhere here. - Like that's a really big - Oh, yeah. - Could that be it? This pipe is used to produce - When you get to that that you feel rather than - For sure. The lowest note most big 16 hertz, which is just at But even this requires a 32 or expensive for many organs. Do you know where the 32 footers are? - Well... - They're ones out the front? - They're the ones that That one. - That's the 32 footer. - So that's nearly 10 meters. - Nearly 10 meters. Yeah. It's pretty scary to think about from the top of it actually. - In 18th century Europe, Georg Joseph Vogler He wanted to tour the continent, but that would require building that he could take with him on the road. And we obviously couldn't haul around the huge 32 foot pipe So how could he still that make the organ so powerful? Well, Vogler realized that of 16 hertz using shorter pipes, your brain would hear Can we try the trick and see if it sounds? The fifth is that sort of which you're gonna hear but basically the quint and it creates the lower resultant tone. So that's just the 16 metal. - It's so funny because you add it and I do not hear it going up. You're playing a fifth above. - Yes Like you just pull that out and I'm like, oh yeah, the note dropped. - That's the trick. Yeah. - With the two sounds I the first was a pure 100 hertz. (sample sound buzzing) But the second sound was made up of the harmonics of 50 hertz. (sample sound buzzing) So you actually heard this even though it wasn't there. That's how higher frequencies low frequencies if they are Now, this might not be If you look at the wave you find that adding changes the period of the sound. It makes the period longer so as the missing fundamental. - If you kind of recreate some you're actually gonna bring - So, the idea of like you and hear the fundamental even if you're not - That's right. Yeah. - So different frequency sounds can combine to make notes that aren't there, but they can also do - Hello, it's me, Mario. - In Super Mario 64, there's a staircase that seems to go on forever. Players can't level up until Now listen carefully to the music. The scale sounds like and up, just like the endless staircase. This is the Shepard tone illusion, and here's a Shepard Glissando on its own. (music escalating) An ever increasing tone because we can't hear anything beyond the 20,000 hertz limit, and yet this sound keeps The trick is a Shepard There are multiple all separated by octaves. All of these frequencies are increasing, but as they do, their volumes change. So the high notes get quieter, High notes soon fade out, and This gives the illusion like the audio version Shepard tones can also evoke emotional or physical responses in some listeners. A 2016 study found that after listening to Shepard tones, participants reported feeling nervous, anxious, and disturbed. Perhaps that's why during in the film, &quot;Dunkirk&quot; in the accompanying score. Hopefully this won't make you uneasy, but I want you to try to figure this is, all of the notes but they've been mixed up (sound beeping) Did you recognize the song? Well, here is the unscrambled melody. (sound beeping) But now that you've heard that, can you follow the scrambled version? (sound beeping) To me, it's fascinating I heard the scrambled melody, which is very different from Our brains can find patterns This is the phantom word illusion created by Dr. Diana Deutsch. Listen to this audio and try to figure out You can put what you When one speaker plays a word, the second speaker plays a different word at the same time. According to Dr. Deutsch, in the air before they reach your ears, you're given a pile of sounds to choose from, so you can A lot of what we hear depends of sound, but on how Dr. Deutsch noticed that when exam week, students reported &quot;I'm tired,&quot; or &quot;No time.&quot; And we can actually what we want it to hear. For example, using text. Take the case of this crowd chanting. (crowd chanting) You're primed to hear the lyrics you see. These are called Mondegreens, after a misheard poem &quot;They have slain the Earl Amurray and Lady Mondegreen.&quot; Except in the real poem, the Earl dies alone and his killers actually Sometimes mondegreens happen logically, but incorrectly, such as hearing pullet surprise Language familiarity would help you hear the correct one from the start. So while UK football fans that is embarrassing. - [Crowd] That is embarrassing. - An American football fan might not. What's even more amazing is how subtle visual cues What am I saying in this clip? If you heard the word bear, that's because that's what I was saying. But what am I saying in this clip? Now I bet you heard fair, but if you play back both you'll find it's the exact same audio. All we changed was the mouth movement, and I can prove it to you by playing those two And what you hear will clip you focus on. So what we see affects what we hear. And the reverse is also true. In this illusion if no sound is played, it looks like the two circles are passing through each other, but at (balls dashing) and immediately it seems like they're bouncing off each other. (balls dashing) What we see and hear are Because in the real world, one sense can reliably inform the other. But what if there are In the 1950s, air traffic with multiple pilots Unfortunately, messages from all of the pilots would play and the overlapping audio to pick out just one voice. So researchers started cocktail party effect, focusing on a single Most of us can do this with It's kind of like taking the recording of the entire party and pulling out a particular voices waveform. The sound waves interfere with each other before reaching your ears. So this should be a difficult task. In this recording, try about a flight in this crowd. (crowd talking) I find that really hard, but if you hear the voice of the conversation is easier to follow, (crowd talking) This is much easier what words will come next based on context and language structure. The second way we can focus where the sound is coming from. Listen again, but this played in your left ear. (crowd talking) In a cocktail party, you by ignoring sounds that Once researchers realized that different pilots be broadcast through different speakers, spread out throughout the control room. This allowed air traffic controllers to more successfully But how do we actually Well, I'm gonna put on this blindfold and ask my wife to walk around me and clap in different locations, and I am going to try to point So let's give it a try. Normally you can pinpoint a sound to within a degree or two. And there are actually four different cues that help me identify the How is it? The first is volume. A sound on my right will My head sort of casts a sound And the second cue is that higher frequencies more It's kinda like when your You can't really hear the high but you can hear the bass because low frequencies by distance and obstacles. The third is time delay. It takes a sound half a so sound will usually arrive Listen to a beep on your left. (sound beeping) and then on your right. (sound beeping) Now, as the delay between (ound beeping) it's less of an echo that's really on your left. (sound beeping) The fourth cue we use of a sound is at what the sound arrives at each Is it arriving at a peak or a trough? The phase of the wave at one than the phase at the other ear. Now you run into a bit of trouble when the sound is either directly in front or behind you or on any that passes through the And that's because the of your ears is the same. And therefore, those four Owls solve this issue Their left ear is actually lower on their head than their right ear. So sounds from below are Humans typically have symmetric ears, but their shapes are important. This is where the outer I mean, what we'd normally Technically this is called the pinna. Depending on the location it will bounce off these ridges and bumps on your ear and end up inside your ear And those reflections will actually change some frequencies differently than others depending on the location. Scientists placed tiny microphones inside volunteer's ears to measure this. They could see, for example, that a 6,000 hertz sound located above you might be but that same sound below by 10 decibels. These figures depend on the unique bumps and ridges of cartilage in your ear. So each person's ears have to different frequencies And over the course of our lives, our brains learn the way our ears, and we use that information to identify the source of the sound. Now, every person has So what if our ears changed? In a 1998 study, researchers placed small of participants changing Here's one subject's data. The rigid background grid represents where sounds were actually played. The dots are the subject's guesses, and the darker warped grid is Before the study, they were but after changing their pinna shape, they were downright terrible. Over a series of days and the participants all adjusted and became better at locating sound. So it is something your Thankfully, after the molds were removed, participants had no trouble reverting back to their original ears. Pinna shape is so key to an in virtual reality that and Sony actually scan your ears to create personalized spatial audio. And for a long time, people and amplify our ability to locate sounds. In 1880, professor Alfred called a topophone to It was made from two By changing the distance sailors could narrow down the Unfortunately, they weren't very useful because sound waves interact with fog. But then during World War I approach was of central importance. So armies developed special to amplify sound. In Britain, sound mirror to locate an enemy up to But as planes became faster, sound mirrors couldn't and they were eventually abandoned after the invention of radar. But even though the the system was not. The radar team used the that was first developed from Linked radar stations in the Battle of Britain. This is the Vox Angelica on When two pipes are slightly out of tune, there's this pulsing effect to the sound. You can hear that in a more pronounced way if I play pure tones. Here is a pure 261 hertz sine wave. (sound beeping) And a pure 263 hertz sine wave. (sound beeping) When both of these tones and refraction waves Sometimes the peaks line up and when a peak lines up with Because these frequencies you hear two louder pulses every second. This is known as beating. (sound buzzing) Now the beats are really clear, and this makes sense when the two waves are interfering in the air. But what happens if a 261 and a 263 hertz tone (sound beeping) What did you hear? Well, the tones never but you can still hear Your brain is firing to the phase difference When your brain mixes it's called Binaural Beats. (sound beeping) And maybe you've already as a quick search of YouTube shows that some people claim they But a 2023 review was inconclusive and emphasized the need for more standardized testing methods. Audio illusions aren't of hearing is faulty. I mean, the world is a messy, noisy place, and our brains have to deal with ambiguity. You fill in the gaps with your past experiences Without your brain making these subconscious adjustments, a cocktail party would always Audio illusions show us where but the system as a whole is pretty good at getting to the truth. (static hissing) Now, illusions remind us that we can't always take And while our unconscious minds time to time, it's our that do the heavy lifting of And if you are looking to start building these that right now for free with Brilliant will make you a better thinker and problem solver while in everything from math and data analysis to programming, that you're curious about. On Brilliant, you'll learn through discovery by trying And you'll not only gain you'll learn to apply them to real world situations all This gives you the tools to solve whatever problems come your way. You know, learning something of the most important things and Brilliant is the perfect way to do it. They have thousands of bite-sized lessons you can do in just minutes. Right now, I'm spending a logic course, which has been a great way to brush up on my own skills of discerning what's true and false. And the best part about anywhere right on your phone. So whenever you have a few minutes, spend them building a To try everything Brilliant for 30 days, visit or you can scan this QR code or click that link in the description. You'll also get 20% off Brilliant's annual premium subscription. So I wanna thank Brilliant and I wanna thank you for watching.