child daughter child Thank you, benefactor Absolutely not I am Qiao Feng from the Beggars' Sect. Thank you, benefactor Captain Qiao All solved Have you figured out what happened? He is a soldier under the King of Chu. Come here to play grass valley I found this on the leader. Take a look. Where is the boss now? Shaolin holds a martial arts conference Boss Wang has already arrived at the meeting There's something wrong in Liao territory, I'm going to Shaolin You help the people Thanks Daddy Who is this person? Give someone a taste of their own medicine Able to defeat the opponent using his opponent's famous trick Who else but Gusu Murong I am Gusu Murongfu I wonder if there is any hero who would like to give me some advice? It's really amazing Donor please Donor be careful Thank you for the reminder, Master. I don't know what to call the little master Don't dare to call me Master The monk's name is Xuzhu The leader of your gang is drinking tea with the elder abbot I'll report it now. Please wait here, sir. Many thanks News of Liao Dynasty's conscription We also suddenly learned It can be determined according to the initial agreement between the two countries Even if there is conflict There is no need for conscription But according to this secret letter The King of Chu alone has recruited 30,000 soldiers. There must be something fishy about this. I'm afraid it's not good for our Song Dynasty The Emperor was young There was another rumor in the palace The Queen Mother I am unwell Even if there is a covenant first I see Liao people It is also possible There is another purpose The Liao people were ambitious Western Xia Jurchen Even Dali There is nothing they dare not provoke This recruitment Maybe there is no other intention. The lips and teeth are interdependent. If the Liao people were allowed to become powerful One day, the sword will point to the Central Plains That being the case I immediately wrote a letter and sent it to Dali Remind Duan Shi to do more defense Also, be careful with the court. And this border walk to inquire about the matter Master, please rest assured My disciples are all over the world This is an obligation Thanks Good skills If I don't learn from him today Isn't it a pity? This Murong Fu is a martial arts expert. It's a pity that there is no equal opponent This year's conference is inevitably a disappointment I'll come Good job, sir. I am Qiao Feng from the Beggars' Sect. Learn a thing or two from this He is Qiao Feng Murong in the South and Qiao Feng in the North Murong in the South and Qiao Feng in the North The passage of time Hidden Dragon Do Not Use It seems that Murong Fu lost There is still a gap. I lost. good Qiao Feng is awesome You are too modest. So many battles I just gained a slight advantage through brute force. Let's discuss it again some other day. It's worth our acquaintance today Farewell Donor Wang said he had something important to ask. But I don't know what it is. Qiao Feng is coming today The two masters saw it with their own eyes Unknown What do you think? This boy studied martial arts in Shaolin when he was young. Shoulder into the Beggars' Gang You've made a lot of progress over the years. I heard that today on the stage Gusu Murong stole the show Gusu Murong stole the show But I'm not his opponent. People say Bei Qiaofeng Nam Murong It can be seen that he has a good reputation in the world. The Liao army's reinforcement Thanks to him for spreading the word Donor Wang suddenly asked Could it be To be honest I am Wang Jiantong Limited qualifications Limited qualifications I'm older It is time to give way to the virtuous. Qiao Feng is extremely talented Taishan Conference He is only in his early twenties But he defeated nine powerful enemies of the Beggars' Sect But he defeated nine powerful enemies of the Beggars' Sect For my Beggars' Sect, I will dominate the world Once alone Deep in the enemy camp Assassinate Liao Lieutenant Such a great achievement You should have been the leader long ago. I should have expected it Since you taught him the Eighteen Dragon Subduing Palms Since you taught him the Eighteen Dragon Subduing Palms And let him do meritorious deeds everywhere I wanted to pass the position of gang leader to him. Must not The Beggars' Sect is the largest martial arts sect in the world How important is the position of the gang leader? This child I grew up watching He values friendship the most I want to erase the demon in his heart I once gave him three difficult questions. He resolved them one by one If I hadn't been making things difficult for him The leader's position It's already his. Since Donor Wang has already made his decision I think it is not impossible It's just that we should be prepared for the worst. But I'm not afraid of one side, I'm just afraid of the worst. We need to be more prepared. The two masters rest assured This matter I already have arrangements So good Amitabha It's really amazing good good Awesome good Xuzhu This master is not here again What are you trying to do here? You saw Qiao Feng today Have you competed with Murong Fu? I tell you it's useless to watch it You're such an idiot. You just see the next life I can't even touch a finger. Do you know why? Because you are stupid Because you can't chant Because you're a fool Don't you think so? Yes, yes, that's right. Master said: See the good and strive to emulate them To have progress Although these two benefactors are now heroes of the world I think they should be Starting from the most basic martial arts Although I am stupid But the slow bird can fly first I should work harder. He has already made a name for himself in his early twenties. Look at you You're still sweeping the floor here. Senior There's nothing wrong with sweeping the floor. Didn't Master say As long as you are careful Eating is a spiritual practice Walking is also a form of spiritual practice Sweeping the floor is also a form of spiritual practice. What did you say Sweeping the floor is also a spiritual practice Good good good Aren't you sweeping the floor? Then you sweep the floor well. Practice well You're such a fool. Amitabha Abbot You guys don't study hard. Why are you teasing your fellow disciples here? Buddha says all beings are equal You are frivolous by nature. Bullying fellow disciples here This goes against the Buddha's teachings. I will punish you to copy the Prajnaparamita Sutra 100 times. Go and take the punishment yourself. yes Xuzhu What do you think of the Eighteen Dragon Subduing Palms? The disciple is dull I really can't see anything I just think that Mr. Joe used it Unstoppable Extraordinarily strong The Eighteen Dragon Subduing Palms is a very strong and powerful technique. But in terms of its ingenuity But it is not about being strong but having more than enough Don't underestimate this move. But the strength of his palm is sometimes strong and sometimes weak. Swallowing and spitting From the most rigid can come the most flexible That Murong was defeated again It was at this moment of strength and softness that I was defeated. Between Reality and Illusion Heroes are born in the world If you have the opportunity to go out and practice in the future Knowing that the world is vast Disciples must remember There you go yes Not surprised by praise or criticism This may be your blessing. This time I went to the border Most important The word secret We must find out about the Liao camp. To increase troops or not Camp configuration Operational arrangements Remember If there is no special reason Never confront them head-on So as not to alert the enemy yes in addition I have informed General Han Ask him to be more careful If the Liao people have any unusual movements You can join him too. Ready to support the imperial army at any time yes Master See the leader The Liao army's reinforcement Master Xuanci has informed the Ministry of War But the court believed This is just our guess. Not paying attention But this is about the people living on the border. Even a little disturbance We can't just ignore it. This matter There is further news Let's inform the court. You go down first yes Feng Er You have been in the Beggars' Sect for ten years, right? Master More than ten years I joined the Beggars' Gang when I was sixteen. Over the years How do you feel about the Beggars' Gang? The Beggars' Sect is like my second home My brothers treat me like family and blood Close and intimate Irreplaceable Over the years I set it up for you Three major problems Seven Tests Let you run around for the gang's affairs And let you go alone deep into the enemy camp Almost lost my life Have you ever blamed your teacher? This is Master's strict requirement for me. How can I blame my master? good I, Wang Jiantong, was not wrong about you. Beggars' Sect disciple Qiao Feng Kneel down yes Wang Jiantong, the eighth leader of the Beggars' Sect Today, on behalf of all the gang leaders Dog Beating Stick Passed down to Qiao Feng, the ninth generation disciple of the Beggars' Sect You will The ninth generation leader of the Beggars' Sect From now on, we should put the Beggars' Gang first in everything. Good fortune and bad fortune go hand in hand We share honor and disgrace I have already informed all the elders and the branch leaders. A succession ceremony will be held at the headquarters soon. From now on The Beggars' Gang is now handed over to you. Qiao Feng Will definitely live up to expectations Welcome to Deputy Gang Leader Ma I don't deserve it. Feng Er Not yet succeeded as the leader rule As it should be How come everyone is here? Everyone is here Gang Leader Not only the Beggars' Sect disciples Even those who have missions outside The four elders Song, Xi, Chen and Wu also returned. Just to get a glimpse of the new gang leader Meet the boss The four elders Feng Er Let's go Walk Helper Arrives Qiao Feng Since joining the Beggars' Gang Friendly relationship with fellow students Dare to take responsibility Defending the country Fight the enemy For our gang Make great contributions Great Chaos in the World Liao people Gradually invading the south Erosion of the Song Dynasty I need you to wait today Loyalty Turning the Tide Good good good Qiao Feng Disciple We Beggars Known as the world's largest gang Do you know why? Because all dynasties in the world There are people who have become beggars Exactly Our Beggars' Mission In Honor your promises and keep your word Eliminate the strong and help the weak Is to let people Informal But it's impossible Lost the righteousness Qiao Feng Do you know this dog-beating stick? Its weight The disciples understand good I am Wang Jiantong I am not talented today Take the position of leader of the Beggars' Sect Passed on to the ninth generation of disciples Qiao Feng Hold the baton Dear Brothers Today I am Qiao Feng Inherit the position of leader of the Beggars' Sect In the future, it will be everywhere Beggars' Sect See the leader brother Come come come I drank it. Did it thousand Respect the Boss Drink it up. The boss is really good at drinking Rare in the world Brothers, you have worked hard every day. Good wine and good food today Don't go home until you are drunk good Come Come Come and do it I heard that the leader is very good at martial arts. I wonder if I could ask you one or two questions. good Come We It's been a long time since it was so lively Come on, come on, drink You are Black Tiger Heart Make it good Some heat The action is too big Easy to be seen through Thank you for your guidance good Who else is coming? We have been in the industry for so many years. It's time to give way to the young people. But I still feel uneasy You all know the situation in Song Dynasty The emperor is young Queen Mother Every day is worse than the day before National power decline Strong enemies around Their current environment Than us It's much harder, isn't it? Yeah National crisis It's time for us to step forward But You, Wang, have such a disciple What else do you have to worry about? Exactly. Qiao Gangzhu's martial arts skills are unparalleled Righteousness He leads our Beggars' Gang Is there any problem that can't be solved? The helper is The younger generation will have their own blessings. We're still overthinking. Drink, drink, drink. Come come come drink let's drink Gang Leader Let me teach you The boss and I Come again Come and do it Come come come Come Boss Qiao is really amazing Old Wang Your apprentice is really good at teaching. The martial arts of the sixth-level disciples In the gang It can be considered a famous one. But The fight just now We all But I can see Clearly Qiao Feng Not only is the force just right Even The wine in this bowl Not a drop leaks either. You don't even look Whose apprentice is that? Drink more, drink more, drink more I drank it. I heard that the King of Chu was recruiting soldiers. There must be a reason for this. But what about the court? But I just hope for the best How is it now? The lips and teeth are interdependent Even if it is not aimed at the Song Dynasty We should also prepare early If we station troops here earlier How could the Liao army So arrogant and rude What now? The priority now It is to inform the court Quickly dispatch troops to deal with this matter I have sent a letter to General Han. Ask him to defend Yanmen Pass And requested the court to send troops to support I'm in the Beggars' Gang I have sent pigeons to the four elders. Order my Beggars' Sect disciples to prepare immediately If necessary Support at any time And called on fellow martial artists If possible Get to the Liao-Song border as soon as possible Fight the enemy together yes Boss Joe General Han is also waiting I'll take you there right away please yes The great boss Qiao has arrived General Han Boss Joe I finally got you here. Qiao heard that there were changes at the border I specially brought my fellow Beggars' Gang brothers to help in addition Master Xuanbei also brought his disciples There are also heroes from all walks of life Already arrived in the city This is so nice To be honest The Liao people's attack this time was sudden. Although I have asked the court for troops But the Liao people are strong in both military and cavalry The King of Chu personally supervised the battle I'm afraid this time I can't wait for the reinforcements to arrive. Boss Joe, please look It's only been a few days The Liao people had advanced hundreds of miles. Deploy troops at Yanmen Pass In the past few days, the Liao cavalry has invaded many times We can only defend Boss Joe Why don't you follow me to the tower? General Han Labor please etc. My Hand yes Come here Boss Joe, please look The Liao army was large in number And they are all elite The current situation Can't last more than three days Catch the leader first To stop the Liao army's offensive It has to start with the head coach It's a shame to say We haven't thought about these methods. But the King of Chu himself is a master of martial arts. There was no one in the Song army who could match him. Secondly, When Brother Qiao led his men to assassinate Yelu Bulu The Liao army was even more vigilant. Every time the King of Chu went to war I have to find four or five people to pretend to be him. Don't talk about capturing him now. It's hard to find him. Then we have to find a way to lure him out. Elderly Sit here Thank you, sir Thank you, sir. No thanks, no thanks. Thank you, sir. Elderly Why are these people so anxious? At first glance, the young master came from outside These days The area outside the Great Wall has become the world of the Liao people. Nine out of ten rooms are empty There's not even a rescuer. These are all refugees. The Liao army came so fiercely I don't know when it will arrive Only into the city There is only a way to survive. In this case Why is the city safe? There is a city wall here There is also General Han guarding There is no one outside the border who does not know his Over the years If he hadn't retreated several times This city I can't hold on any longer. You guys find a place to stay first. Get to know the city Key Points It is to find out the distribution of the troops of Song and Liao. No special circumstances Do not move without permission yes Sir, what about you? I have something else to do. We split up Wait till I finish my work See you again no I have to find that villain. Please ask him to take me as his apprentice. Otherwise, Miss Mu's life will be in danger. But if he insists on teaching me The ability to break a person's neck It's useless to say anything. Xin Zhang Master Xin The Left Sect Leader is also here. Sikong Gang Leader you Don't come over here. The Holy Messenger Arrives See the Holy Messenger Holy Messenger Get up Who are you? What are you doing here? I In the next paragraph A few days ago, I visited Jianhu Palace with my friends I never thought I would meet the leader of the Sikong Xuan gang. And Mr. Zuo There seems to be a little misunderstanding I was originally I really want to mediate for you. But I didn't expect I didn't expect it to be such a mess. Later, I was ordered by Gang Leader Sikong Xuan to Go get the antidote Never thought I met a big villain on this road. The name is Yue Lao San, the Crocodile God of the South China Sea He said I had good qualifications. He insisted that I worship him as my teacher. You brought me here unreasonably. His words are true, right? Report to the Holy Envoy He is telling the truth But this person didn't have any skills at all He messes up everywhere You said those two bitches pretending to be my sisters Escaped to this mountain Where are the people? Mr. Duan Mr. Duan You can see two people wearing black capes There are no women dressed like us. Sikong Xuan Welcoming the Holy Envoy No Duan Yu has been on this mountain for several days. Haven't seen The girl dressed the same as the five holy messengers Sikong Xuan You have been under Lingjiu Palace for quite a while, right? It's been eight years. It's been eight years. Even our sister couldn't recognize it. So confused I hope you can give What does Tong Lao do? The antidote to this year's life and death talisman Don't count on it. this Please have mercy on me Please have mercy on me, Holy Messenger. You two Take Mr. Duan down The matter of capturing those two fake little bitches I'll hand it over to you, Wuliang Sword If the four evil men come to Tell them to come to me at Lingjiu Palace on Piaomiao Peak Holy Envoy Please go to Tonglao She said that I, Sikong Xuan, had let her down. Master, Master Master, Master Master, Master, Master Take me down How can you arrest people randomly? The surname Duan Please be quiet Noisy again Don't blame us for being rude. If you come, make the best of it Now that I'm here, I can only leave it to fate. Thank you all heroes for your help You're welcome, General. General Han As you said We cannot engage the Liao army head-on at this time. Then we can only attack them by surprise. Creating a riot As long as the Liao camp is frightened I will definitely ask the King of Chu for instructions. Then we will follow the clues We should be able to find the King of Chu. Joe Donor But I have an idea in mind actually I do have an idea. But I can't do it alone Still need the help of heroes What's there to say about this? But whatever the brothers can do Uncle Qiao, just give your orders. Even though I was told Boss Joe Despite the order Boss Joe please I don't know if you are here Is there anyone who is good at using flint? I This hero's surname is very famous. I am just a nobody in the world. Hearing about the invasion of Liao soldiers Come to help Bu Zhi Qiao Bang Zhu Yao Yong Huo Shi Zuo Shen A The so-called troops have not moved Food and grass first To make the Liao army lose its composure The best approach Burning their food Let my Beggars' Sect disciples take advantage of the chaos to attack Matching mechanism hidden weapon The people in the Liao camp thought Our reinforcements have arrived. So I plan to Night attack on Liao camp Whatever I can't get out anyway. So much has happened these days I'm sorry to neglect the fairy sister. I might as well follow the instructions of the fairy sister Practicing her Bei Ming magic Internal strength of this sect It is contrary to the internal strength of various schools. Therefore, anyone who has practiced internal energy You must completely forget your own learning Concentrate on practicing new skills If there is any confusion The two works will collide with each other Immediately went insane and vomited blood All the meridians are disabled The most dangerous thing I don't have any martial arts skills. It's convenient Who quick Come come come eat meat eat meat On Fire I don't know what happened. Man has a four-sea stomach, which is the sea of water and food Chong Meridian is the Sea of the Twelve Meridians Tanzhong is the Sea of Qi The brain is the sea of marrow People can only eat water and food for one day Reveal all Use Shao Shang to draw the inner strength of others and store it in my Qi Hai Take one point Save one point Like the huge pool of the Northern Ming Tianchi A Kun that can float thousands of miles Wonderful, wonderful Learning this step is like solving a puzzle. It's really fun. coward This Manggu Zhuha hasn't appeared for a long time. This night it suddenly chirped I don't know whether it is good or bad. This Manggu Zhuha The King of Poisons Supernatural powers Highly toxic I heard When this person saw Manggu Zhuha The poison gas immediately blinded my eyes. As the poison enters the brain I'm afraid I won't be able to see it clearly. The appearance of the King of All Poisons Then click Brother Yu The Holy Envoy doesn't like men. But he was polite to the boy inside. What is Mr. Duan? It's so affectionate. You mean a young girl? Being polite to a pretty boy What do you think it means? Is it possible? The Holy Envoy has taken a fancy to that pretty boy I see The Holy Envoy It's just a polite name for me. You've locked me up here from childhood to old age. What's the use? Bring me some more water. Come on Two more people are coming. Look over there What is the situation Stay calm, don't panic. Catch them over there. Come on There's someone behind the carriage Surround them superior Lord What's going on? How did it become like this? A master entered the barracks and caused chaos Aren't they just a few gangsters? You are afraid of this Where is the courage of the Liao men? This expedition Determined to win Don't say it's just a few gangsters The Song reinforcements really came. Could it be that I am afraid of him? Lord The prince really wants to take action They're definitely not opponents. But most of the people in the underworld are desperate. The King's Body of Ten Thousand Gold Why bother fighting them personally? Although we lost some food and grass To the point of not being able to If the prince makes a mistake That's different. Exactly. The opponent's martial arts is very strong We already have several experts. It's all in their hands. Fortunately, the camp had already arranged a replacement. My Lord, please retreat first. For safety Eighteen Dragon Subduing Palms You are Qiao Feng Don't move Don't move This step Starting from Mingyi Jing Ben Jiji Family Step through the sixty-four hexagrams Just one circle and it's all gone Just finished It is really wonderful. The commotion started early this morning What on earth is this kid doing? I'll go check it out What are you yelling about? I said If you say a word, I will slap you. You can't forget it. Avoid my slap I punched him in the chest The general algorithm you strangeness I just punched that pretty boy. Why so weak and feeble? This person is really arrogant. I just said a few wonderful words What's bothering you again? Punched me for no reason Fortunately, it doesn't hurt My chest feels a bit stuffy. Untie the prince yes Do you know what the consequences will be if you capture this king? Know For the King Qiao knows a lot. Tell me You two go down. yes The Emperor died that year The throne was passed to the eldest son Xingzong But the Queen Mother loved the second son Chongyuan Conspiracy to make him emperor Fortunately, Chongyuan informed him in time The Queen Mother's conspiracy will not succeed afterwards Xingzong expressed his gratitude Establishing Chongyuan as the crown prince And promised to pass the throne to him in the future But later Xingzong became seriously ill Broken oath Or pass his throne to his son? That is the current emperor Yelu Hongji After Yelu Hongji ascended the throne Feel bad So he named the crown prince as the crown prince uncle He was also conferred the title of Grand Marshal of the Army of the World He also conferred upon his son Nerugu That is, you are the King of Chu In charge of Southern Branch affairs Become the King of Nanyuan Lord You are different from ordinary people He was also a high-ranking official in the Liao Dynasty. But others only know you as a royal blood relative I didn't know there was this layer. You are not from Liao How do you know this? My Beggars' Gang is all over the world Know this news It's not difficult actually I also know that in Liao Many people support you and your son. Said Yelu Hongji was a usurper of the throne Your father is the rightful king. So what? Lord You are a smart person You see the situation more clearly than I do. You are in our hands now Your father's advisers and personal soldiers may want to save you But the people in Beijing But not necessarily Are you sure they won't use the excuse that the negotiation is not going to work out? And it has delayed your return to Liao Or something unexpected happened Let you die here The tribes of Liao may have supported the Liao emperor. There are also people who support you and your son. The two sides disagree The depth of the contradiction It is not something that can be resolved in one or two days. The Song Dynasty and the Liao Dynasty reached an agreement As far as I know You broke the peace treaty and rashly sent troops The Liao Emperor may not agree If you win, that's fine. But now you sit here Think about how long you have been detained by us. Will this military power still be in your hands? you What do you want to do? Very simple We just want peace on the border The people can live a few comfortable days Boss Joe Enter Boss Joe Lord Let's take a look now How much are you, the King of the Southern Courtyard, worth? Before I dodged their slaps. But he didn't dodge that punch. This must be because This skill is not mature yet If you want to escape with this step Must be practiced to perfection When you walk out, you don't think about it. This is possible The peace talks between Liao and Song lasted only a year The Liao soldiers have already invaded the border We have no other requirements I just hope your country will keep its promise. Retreat immediately And promise never to do it again The Song Dynasty gave nothing They want us to withdraw. That's wishful thinking. Nothing else to say The wages of so many soldiers And our food and horses were burned Winter supplies, etc. Who will compensate? If we can't make up for this shortfall The matter of retreat I'm afraid there's no room for negotiation. Robbery They even asked the robbed person to pay for the loss. I have lived for so many years. This is the first time I've heard of such an unreasonable thing. General Han Negotiations between the two countries When is it the turn of the outsiders to speak? you Don't think that there are a few gangsters in charge Get carried away The prince is in your hands. We really need to fight You have so little military strength. They are no match for the Liao Dynasty. The King of Chu was the Southern Court King of Liao What a distinguished status When the day of defeat comes You still have to send the prince back respectfully. Lord, you are I promised to withdraw Let me go now I am the King of Chu What you say counts well good The Liao army retreated forty miles I'll let you go immediately Qiao Feng I remember you Slow Walk Not sending Looking from afar As bright as the rising sun Forced to observe Bright as lotus flowers emerging from green waves It's like a light cloud covering the moon Floating like the thunder of the wind Standing tall like a crane If you want to fly but don't fly The surname Duan What are you doing? Playing tricks Want to run Wu Guangsheng Let me go Let me go. No, no, no, no, it hurts, it hurts This big brother Let me go Can you please talk it over? Let me go, let me go, I can't do it Let me go Chase fast I've been running all this way I don't feel tired at all On the contrary, I feel more energetic than before. Bei Ming Divine Art How come this inner strength can never be fully stored? Nothing will go wrong, right? No, no No matter what I have to meet up with Mu girl quickly. I just don't know where she is now. Go this way Your master can't find you. I hid here by myself. If I take you back to Miss Zhong She must be very happy. Come on, Diaoer Come here Mink Mink Good Mink Good Mink Good Mink Come here Why are you so unreasonable? I I am your master's friend. How dare you bite me? you I Manggu Zhuha This is the Manggu Zhuha, known as the king of all poisons. Be careful, Mink Be careful, Mink Mink is dead If Miss Zhong knew this, I wonder how sad she would be. Why did this centipede come to join in the fun? This is my mouth. Don't make a mistake Treat it as a centipede hole Brother Zhu He What are you going to do? Brother Zhu He Catch the centipede quickly! There's nothing fun in my stomach. How can I move again? It must be the Manggu Red Clam and the Centipede I got into my stomach and used poison to fight poison, but it actually cured the mink poison. Into my belly This time it's all up to us The boss has done his best. Otherwise, If we can't beat them, come here, Boss Qiao. I deeply admire Master, I am laughing. His martial arts skills and character are beyond reproach. Come and eat Everyone This time we were able to successfully repel the Liao soldiers. I rely entirely on the help of all the heroes and knights. Han prepared some wine here today. To show gratitude To all heroes Dry Come and do it Xie Han Come and do it Come and do it Stop the Liao army Guarding the Song Dynasty This is my generation's business. Why should General Han be so polite? Old Monk Tea instead of wine A toast to you all good Come Dry General Han Heroes This time our sneak attack was successful Boss Qiao can be said to have made great contributions We brothers are just doing our bit. Not worth mentioning Come Heroes Done Brother You Don't ever say that. If it weren't for the help of heroes from all walks of life, There is no way to capture the King of Chu alive I, Qiao, would like to greet you all. Come on, let's do it. Come and eat meat This brother Thanks for setting fire to the stables. Creating chaos It also bought me time. Could you tell me your name? Let's be friends Thank you, Mr. Qiao, for your kindness. I am a nameless person. I don't dare to make friends with a big shot like you. Everyone We'll meet again. Farewell Gang Leader This person's origin is unknown Suspicious behavior I'm afraid it's a secret spy of the Liao army. This hero took risks Deep into Liaoying I guess he's not some scoundrel. Save the country without leaving a name True Hero Come Let's drink I respect you all good Come Come and pay tribute to Qiao Yingxiong Good Joe Hero thousand It's not good to be here, boss. Good wine. Something big happened in the gang Heroes Something important is happening in the Beggars' Sect now General Han I have to rush back immediately Please forgive me Boss Joe See you later See you later What can I do? Don't talk nonsense Boss Joe has arrived Boss Joe is here Boss Qiao Boss Qiao Deputy Chief Ma Gang Leader How is my master now? Not very good Ever since the leader led his brothers out of Yanmen Pass The old boss fell ill. But he didn't let us tell you. I'm afraid this will divide your heart This is the person known in the Jianghu as Doctor Xue, the enemy of the king of hell He has been treating the old boss these days. Labor My master's current illness I don't know what the corresponding strategy is Shame This is an old injury from many years ago. In addition, I work hard every day Worry grows Leading to deficiency of qi and blood We doctors can cure diseases. Can't save lives There is only so much Xue can do. I'm afraid it will be in the next two days. I'll go in and see my master. Master Come Slower Disciple is unfilial I cannot always serve my master. What is filial piety? I know my body Are you guarding me? I won't die? The old beggar's life Festive and lively After I left You all should be happy Did you hear that? Come sit down I am a beggar I joined the Beggars' Sect when I was seven years old. He also did a lot of things in the underworld, robbing the rich to help the poor. Nicknamed Jianran I know now No matter what kind of hero you are Arrived before the King of Hell All the same Have some tea Come Even if the King of Hell sees you I have to call you a hero But the only thing I'm worried about is you. Our Beggars' Gang is so big The great thing is that it teaches everyone No threshold poor weak solitary bitter As long as you enter the door He is a disciple of our Beggars' Sect. We, the Beggars' Sect, don't have any great principles. Those are nothing more than Defending the country Chivalrous and righteous yes This fan Teacher gives you The poem It's for you too. The snow falls and the Yanmen Pass opens Pingshaliluanjuanpenggen's fame and reputation are counted as the number of captured lives Kill Loulan to repay the country's kindness You have to remember Your life They are all from Song Dynasty No matter when You must put the Song Dynasty first Be careful Thinking about the country You have to swear to the teacher. Whatever happens You have to protect the Beggars' Sect disciples. Defend the Song Dynasty Master You can rest assured I must be like you Chivalrous and righteous Defending the country Be a stand-up A straightforward man Tantan Swing This life I can't do it magnanimous Your name is Qiao Feng yes Why practice martial arts? Chivalrous and righteous How to The Greatest Hero For the country and the people The Liao Kingdom has been spying on the territory of the Song Dynasty for a long time Border residents suffer greatly My Beggars' Sect takes fighting the enemy as its mission You join my gang There will be life concerns Are you scared? Sacrifice for the country Seeing death as returning home At a young age There is a sense of home and country Master Xuan Ku is indeed a man of insight. Master Xuan Ku is indeed a man of insight. good Today you will become a disciple of my Beggars' Sect I am Wang Jiantong's apprentice. Thank you, Master Master Two people stay Today is the funeral of old boss Wang No one is allowed to enter May I ask the names of the two seniors? Tan Gong It seems that this has been less common. The younger generation doesn't recognize us anymore. Little Doll I have a life-and-death relationship with your boss Wang. Give way Chongxiao Cave in Taihang Mountain Mrs. Tan and her husband arrived Failure to welcome Young disciples are ignorant Please forgive me That old guy Wang Jiantong really went there Master knows that the two seniors are coming. I must be very happy. If you can't drink, run away What kind of hero is this? Old woman Bring the wine Dragon paste wine from Wuyishanli I went to great lengths to find a bottle Cheap for you Old buddy High mountains and long rivers Goodbye Boss Joe My husband and I are leaving now. No need to send far Farewell Farewell to the two seniors You are back This time, my junior brother went north to fight against Liao Really What hard work Brother, thank you Defending the country is our duty I will do my best to do this This time the Liao troops were defeated The Beggars' Sect leader Qiao has made great contributions If he hadn't devised a plan to capture the King of Chu We won't win so easily. Amitabha There are people like Qiao Shizhu in the Song Dynasty It's a blessing Junior I have a letter here You take a look The four evil men want to embarrass Prince Duan Exactly Disciples of the Discipline Academy walking outside Hear the wind Send me a special letter Miss me Song The Liao Dynasty invaded the north repeatedly Daxia Watching closely Only Dali Kingdom is safe in the southwest Always on good terms with our Song Dynasty The Dali royal family has a deep connection with our dynasty. Junior Brother Xuanbei I want you to go to Dali again. Give warning To prevent any mishaps to the Duan royal family But at the command of my brother That's right This time I went to Dali In addition to Huizhen's disciples Can you bring another disciple? Who do you want to take? Xuzhu Under the Wheel of Wisdom Why is it him? I also thought This person is ordinary But after several contacts I found this person to be open-minded. Others' entanglement He walked on flat ground No worries in my heart this time I want to take him out for some training. Maybe I can get some enlightenment It is unknown This may be the fate between you two. This person has average qualifications Buddhist Martial Arts Nothing surprising But since you want to give him a hint Just go and tell Huilun. Then I'll prepare. Master This first cup I respect your chivalry Heroes of the World One Day Teacher Father for life This second cup Qiao Feng salutes you A great favor The third cup Disciple will see you off There is always someone better There is always someone better than you You think the height is not high People feel that low places are not low Being in it but not being in it Don't be proud of your talent Don't use favor to bully others Remember