Gemma's Bigger Bolder Baking Hi Bold Bakers! On Bigger Bolder Baking, I like to take what to share with you amazing recipes using simple So this week we are making No-Knead Donuts So let's get baking! So I've made baked donuts before and they But the one question I got asked was can you These donuts are way less fuss than a traditional the fried ones. So we're going to start out in a large bowl. And the reason you use a large bowl is because the same bowl so we need to give it a lot So into our bowl, I'm going to add in my flour, Now the reason I add them on separate sides your yeast onto your salt because it will sides of the bowl and then you can feel free other. Ok. Perfect. We're going to set this bowl aside and mix In a separate jug we're going to add in our A recipe with all that butter cannot be bad. Vanilla extract, honey for sweetness and your And then with a fork, simply whisk all of You'll notice these are a lot of rich ingredients buttery and eggy. It's delicious. Lovely. All of our eggs are mixed up. Ingredients are combined. So now we're going to add our wet into our Then just take your spatula and mix until And this is it. What you're doing right now is eliminating So give it a good mix up until all of the It is a bit of a soggy dough but that's ok. Also, using a no-knead method and developing flavor and better texture. Ok lovely. As you can see, all our flour is wet there It smells beautiful and rich and a little Now the next part is where the magic happens. We're going to cover this in cling film and Once your three hours are up, we're going then we're going to use him the next day but 3 days in your fridge and use it whenever Now I do get asked the question: can you rush fridge overnight and the answer is YES. It's all very important to the end result So here's a dough I made yesterday and it's And as you can see, it's bubbly. It's around the same size after it was proofed. It doesn't grow a whole lot in the fridge. Look at this. You can see the little bubbles. With no-knead doughs, essentially what you you add in time. And time develops all of these gases, all it gives it all its texture. It's really a fabulous way to make bread. Okie dokie. I'm going to stop poking the dough now and and start cutting it. I don't know if you guys can see this but gluten strands and that is strength. That is the sign of a strong dough. Beautiful. I'm going to flour the top of the dough a to roll it out to around a 1/4 inch thick So somebody actually asked me the other day dough and you can always tell because it leaves touch, how soft it is. It's seeing it growing. All of these types of things. So what I use to cut out my donuts is a scone I'm not going to buy a donut cutter and this Then we're going to save this guy because as delicious as regular donuts. So we're going to bake those off, too. If you want to do some filled donuts like leave it whole without cutting out the center, you can actually fill them with jam or whatever Once your donuts are cut out, we're going paper. Now it's really important to use a good quality get a little bit overcooked on the bottom trays that will help a lot to keep the bottom When you're laying your donuts on the tray, grow and puff up. Once your donuts are all cut out we're going at room temperate for around 20-30 minutes. Our donuts are proofed and I want to show ready to be baked. So if you look you can see the edges have So that means it's well proofed and ready But just before we pop them in the oven I'm butter because it gives them a lovely golden Now today we are baking these but if you don't them that will work just as well. And you only have to shallow fry them you These guys are looking great and they're ready I'm going to bake my donuts at 375F/190C for them because they do brown quite quickly. While our donuts are in the oven, we're going Now we're going to make three easy glazes For the first one, we're going to mix together Mix it together until it's nice and smooth. For the second, we're going to mix together bit of pink food dye. And mix together until smooth. And then for our last, we're going to mix extract and milk. This chocolate glaze looks delicious. I can't wait to try it. For all the recipes that you saw on today's Everything can be found on www.BiggerBolderBaking.com. I just heard our timer go off so let's check When the donuts are fresh out of the oven them in the glaze because I feel like it soaks more like a donut. So I like to immerse it in the icing and then Not all of it obviously. You still want some on there for the donut. You can actually see already instantly because this lovely little shell. For the donuts with the sprinkles on them, And then pull it out and I'm going to add This kind of reminds me of a Simpson's Donut. Don't be shy with adding on your sprinkles. Now for the chocolate one, I do something Just dip in the top and let the excess drip I like to make my icings kind of thick so your own preference. And if you want to dunk the whole thing in So I'm going to add a little bit of grated it a little bit of extra oomph. So these guys are best eaten warm so I'm going And I just want to show you the inside. If you can see all of the bubbles, and the this dough overnight. That's why it's a really good technique. This is gorgeous. You would never know that this is not a fried This is such a great alternative to frying or you don't want to fry. Like why should you if you can bake them just Make sure you share your photos of your donuts Thank you so much for subscribing and I'll Bigger Bolder Baking.