Thank you to Brilliant for supporting PBS. Physics progresses by breaking our intuitions, may require us to do away with the most intuitive and time themselves. Physics came into its modern form as a description They are the stage on which physics plays But that stage begins to fall apart on the physics falls apart with it. Many believe that the only way to make physics powerful intuition yet. In our minds, space and time but that primacy may not extend beyond our minds. In many of the new theories that are pushing level is not what we think it is. We're going to explore the "realness" We'll ask: Do our minds hold a faithful and if not, why do we think about space and And if space and time aren't fundamental, What do space and time emerge from? But today we're taking the first step by and time in physics came about in the first fall apart. We have this sense of space as an extended with matter - a regular, continuous, mappable is embedded. Meanwhile time is the continuous rolling of governed by the same unstoppable clock. But this idea of space and time as having of its contents, became cemented in popular time that they became cemented in physics. However humans have been arguing over the for millenia. We can summarise the two main conceptions as a network of positional relationships of exists independently of objects, and rather, The latter seems to have emerged only relatively Let's start with the ancients. They certainly thought a lot about space--after But the geometries of Euclid and Pythagorus as an absolute entity--they were relational. For example, a triangle is defined by the angles. You don't need a coordinate grid to define Greeks didn't have one. Sure, their maps had longitude and latitude, habit of gridding up empty space with x, y, As such, they didn't tend to think of empty The idea of the coordinate grid came much, Perhaps you've heard of the Cartesian coordinate X, y, and z axes, each at 90 degrees to the space can be defined with three numbers - the the axes. This idea feels pretty intuitive to many of 1637, when the French Rene Descartes made it cool. With the coordinate system, it became possible spatial terms--for example, by graphing an But it also gave us a tool for describing arbitrarily large and this application would soon revolutionise Regarding the actual nature of space, Descartes Plato, who didn't believe in empty space. Descartes said that space is only real as and matter. But the invention of the first true mathematical very different conception of space. And that new conception was almost entirely He gave us a set of equations that could, of objects and how those motions change through Newtonian mechanics is built on Descartes' Those mehcanics proved wildly So much so that many, including Newton, began the mechanics--the coordinate of space and Newton himself insisted that space is absolute; objects within it. The empty volume implied by the Cartesian And according to Newton time is also absolute. From Aristotle to Descartes, "time" was But In Newton's view, there's a single all observers--time passes "by itself ", even Newton also believed that there was an absolute Like, a master frame of reference whose x, was fixed relative to those axes then you This is contrary to the ideas of Galileo a is relative--the speed you measure for another The laws of physics are the or inertial frame, and so all such frames are equal. While Newton accepted the of Galilean relativity, he in defining a preferred inertial frame was universe. The success of Newtonian mechanics elevated in everyone's minds. But there was one prominent naysayer. Newton had a nemesis. Or maybe it was Newton who was the nemesis Ok, he shared a mutually nemetical relationship with the German mathematician Their most famous rivalry was over the discovery of calculus, which they Leibniz probably getting to it first. Newton however accused him of plagiarism, and being by far the most powerful scientist of his day, secured the credit for himself. But another point of contention between these Leibniz did not accept Newton's assertion and independent of anything in them. Instead, he thought that both space and time What does that even mean? Well, it means that objects exist, but they space. Rather, what we think of spatial separation rather of the connection between them. Exactly why Leibnitz thought this and rejected have time to get into right now. Instead, let me try to give you a sense of in objects or in their relationships, rather Let's start by imagining only one dimension This is a Newtonian space, where every point We can put some particles in the universe. The position of each in space is defined by mark it's next to if we add a coordinate The particles might have intrinsic or internal but their position isn't a quantity that's In Leibniz's view there is no space, so The particles still exist, but they aren't They're sort of just bundles of properties Space doesn't exist so maybe we should place then again if location is meaningless we might Let's add a new property to each particle X is what we call a degree of freedom--something values, and it can change. Other degrees of freedom could be energy and X behaves in a particular way. For example, it can change freely. If it's changing, then it keeps changing Now these particles have no idea about each other's existence, except For example, If two particles have values of X that are each other, changing the Maybe they want to try to be more similar, If we were to represent these X values with the behaviour of the particles looks just attracting or repelling each other only when We can't tell the difference between particles emerging from a degree of freedom within the This thought experiment isn't explicitly what Leibniz described, really be to explain a universe like For one thing, we need 3 spatial dimensions, X, Y, &amp; Z would all have to be close to each Also, Leibnitz thought that position was not in the objects themselves. He gave his elementary particles names - monads consciousness, and that space emerged from But we don't actually need idea of particles with interacting, internal degrees of freedom illustrates how space can that are themselves not in space. So that's Leibnitz on space. He disagreed with Newton on time in a similar intrinsic to each element, rather than a cosmic Of course Newton was the undisputed boss of absolute space and time won over the physicists, imagination. But who was really right? Are objects in space and moving through time, their connections? Are the dimensions absolute or relational? The big next development seemed to support Over the 19th century, our understanding of converged, revealing the existence of something A field is just some property that can take For example, temperature is a field defined It's emergent from the properties of the But the electromagnetic field doesn't need For the first time, it seemed that a field So, surely if space can have properties, then And more intrinsic properties emerged with example, space was shown to have a sort of vacuum energy. However, if we really want to decide whether Leibnitz and Newton--we need the ultimate We need the greatest expert of space and time We've talked about Einstein's special before. Let's just go over what the theory changed With special relativity, the separation of They became 4-D spacetime. Einstein showed that our motion through space A clock moving relative to you ticks slower And then with general relativity we see that warp both space and time. This causes straight line trajectories that and the apparent change in an object's path of gravity. Relativity overturned some of Newton's notions independent entities, that there's a universal of ultimate, rigid coordinate system for space. But what did these mean for the central question space and time? Actually, spacetime in Einstein's universe It's like a fabric that can be warped. It can hold energy. It can even propagate waves--gravitational Einstein showed that empty space has properties, Well, maybe - but Einstein's view is really extent that Einstein even called himself a Newton believed in space as an underlying danced. But Einstein insisted that no such background and the gravitational field are the same thing. This field is not painted on top the coordinate system is a quality of the field. Absent this field there is nothing. So all of this landed Einstein somewhere between He believed that there is an extended structure on which distances and durations can be defined, the way that Newton thought. According to Einstein, Descartes was right, as empty space. To quote Einstein, So is Einstein the last word on the matter? Far from it. We know that general relativity breaks down 10^-35 meters, which is the Planck length. There it comes into hopeless conflict with to meaningfully define shorter distances. Just as it's meaningless to define durations This conflict between Einstein's theory challenges and inspirations for progressing And essentially all of the possible paths of the dimensions--whether multiplying their emerge from elements that, themselves, do gravity, which we've discussed, or the cellular the entanglements between horizon, or from Arkani-Hamed's amplituhedron among others.. If any of these latter are true, then Leibniz in the relationships between some sort of something, not as an absolute and physically Leibniz also had another controversial idea: This isn't the same as saying that reality as saying that space doesn't exist. Rather, Leibniz felt that whatever it is that's the subjective feeling of depth, breadth, organise objects that are separated by an Kind of like how the subjective experience frequency of light. It's incredibly difficult to imagine a universe The dimensions seem hardwired into our brains. Perhaps we need to break this preconception If so, we need to explore how and why our and temporal inner worlds. And we'll do that in an episode very soon, we live in an absolute or a relational spacetime. Thank you to Brilliant for supporting PBS. STEM with hands-on, interactive lessons. Brilliant professional and inexperienced. Brilliant courses and problem-solving activities/exercises.) and For example, Artificial neural networks of information. Like your own brain, data-processing machines that make predictions humans at tasks like chess and cancer diagnoses. machinery of artificial neural nets through You'll develop intuition about the kinds and by the end you'll be ready to dive into To learn more about Brilliant, Today we're looking at your comments from about how Earth really moves through the nucleus is held together by meson exchange. Matt Thomas asks, when we put together all of we moving relative to the CMB? And what effect The answer is that we're moving at 368km/s things in the universe have some relative there should be a time dilation relative to the stuff of the Earth has on average been moving Less time has passed in that reference frame Bang was more recent for our hypothetical moving 10,000 years. Pretty tiny compared Karl Sheffield asks what is in Well, immediately in front: the interstellar containing its outward-flowing solar wind and low-density gas and dust grains. There easily--bits of rock or ice like oumuamua There will be ejected planets, brown dwarfs, terms of stuff we can see--well we're heading also orbiting the galaxy and so we're not going close enough to a star or stellar remnant to mess being an increase in inner-solar system comets. the disk and especially in a spiral arm. It'll Moving on to the episode on Fensox asks whether Hideki Yukawa eventually got strong and weak forces. He did. He got the of the pi meson. And his name is all over the the strong force part of the standard model Several people asked how it is that the particles to be attracted. After all, in at each other, it seems that the exchange The short answer is that the balls analogy of virtual particles is something of a metaphor. between and around the particles are disturbed in virtual particles. But those virtual particles travel in a straight line to particle two. They uncertainty principle, including on the opposite including complex masses. All of this enables way that pulls the particles together instead mathematical fiction to describe field Feelincrispy points out that I could easily just make something up and %99.9 of sleekweasel asks how the given that if a nucleus grows too big, To remind everyone --the island of stability is nuclei that is theoretically more stable Actually, I don't really know the details of this. But fortunately Gareth Dean jumped He says: Nuclei aren't just blobs of particles, the few particles in them are far apart and lots of particles are packed close and can places where the shells are full, binding Regarding my use of the labradoodle to adjacent protons in an atomic nucleus. Many of as some sort of standard unit of measurement. to use the mean weight of a statistically large number of labradoodles. But I personally volunteer to run the NIST labradoodle standards facility to their standard treats and pets. Many of you also is not a universe they'd want to live in. Also the elimination of the strong nuclear force and and life, as a promising way to rid the world of labradoodle-foe, and your name has been passed standards facility. They'll be watching