I was super maximalist growing up. I had over 100 I went to a party. And I just loved stuff. So that you don't need to be better at cleaning or was such a turning point for me and I think that's And today I'll take you on that journey. So middle class Swedish family. In the middle of I got my first job abroad. So I moved to France. to be away for. It was sort of my intention to me. So that's where my minimalism journey really Especially moving countries. Because you're first time I had to like carry my suitcases and I left my parents home. When I'd been in So again it was this whole process. Again I and I realized that this would be a lot easier option of two suitcases, because I couldn't really couldn't carry a third suitcase myself. Once really started my journey towards minimalism. and I felt so similar to her. I used to always And in her book she said that, that's something absolute necessity to be able to survive in clutter haven. So I lived in Japan and after about little bit. And I realized that it would be Especially moving continents. At the same time and I started becoming more and more aware Especially plastic and clothing. So this was minimalism. And it really, really made me more mindful about what I purchased. Especially after much plastic. And so many cute little things, And in Sweden it's not necessarily accepted to Whereas in Japan it completely is. So as Despite being very cute. Another thing I realized minimalism is always the answer. Because it is a a job for a while. And I went to university. So simply couldn't afford to buy stuff. Then I moved a lot of money. And I paid a lot of rent. This a friend and we both realized quickly that the to keep it very clean. If you live in a cluttered ultimately. Unless you're both very happy with the one tiny space I think it's really important to to do this, is by not having lots of stuff. So I buy stuff. That's just something you do as a human a weird like dichotomy with my parents because look down on people buying expensive things, yet really understood this. And that's when minimalism I realized that I don't have to buy stuff. You want. As many parties as you want. In as many at home. My goodness it was such a relief for me. abroad really, really helped me on my minimalist year I've moved continent with two suitcases and mindful because if I can't carry it myself and there's no way I can keep it. In China there was was the idea of freedom. For the first time I I didn't need more stuff and especially not heavy felt so much better feeling this non-attachment that I realized I had to go back to Sweden and get I was 18 and left my home. That means selling all Making sure I had no stuff in storage. And there's everything I own to make sure that no one else And to make sure that I was completely detached connection to my childhood home. This was a of who I used to be. Letting go of attachment. and didn't make me happier. I do still keep some photos. So yeah. This was another really big minimalism to extreme minimalism. And I realized then it's gonna have to go. Now I live for me to be minimalist in and especially an long I'm going to stay living like this. Which responsible lifestyle. Everything we've acquired for. So we know where everything's going to go to sell my bed base and sell the bed. The plants of how the end life of every single product that Before minimalism I didn't use to think of it's so important to realize that the things you from nowhere. And that was a really big point and minimalism. The idea that everything has and packaged and then opened and then one day, really important to think about when you buy new that helps me now to not get more stuff. Because I something new and that it would one day go to to extreme minimalist. Thank you so much Mystic thought it was such a fun idea so I wanted to what you think? Too much information? Not enough less anxiety. And mainly there is less cleaning preparing for the end of life of my stuff environmentally friendly living together with I really enjoyed making this video. I hope and leave a comment telling me if you were also a to this channel because it really helps. And I Can dhey hear det? What i didn't realize was living in