Of all the enlightened intellectuals, brilliant in world history, Alexander the Great is undeniably Was this most legendary Macedonian king an Did he eventually succumb to alcohol or belief We here at Kings and Generals, after a long of those myriad questions and many, many more. Welcome to our series on the stunning conquests Our first video will cover just how Alexander Philip II and consolidated power. Many scholars note that Alexander's education endeavors. Thanks to our modern technology you can learn sponsor of our video Skillshare! Skillshare offers thousands of inspiring classes design, photography, video, freelancing, and If you want to further your career, to start has a course for you! Most classes are under 60 minutes, making All that is curated for learning, which means - everything is geared towards helping you Kings and Generals team has been using Skillshare of our work, be it scriptwriting, animation, correction, audio editing - this is not If you want to make videos like ours, Jake in Adobe After Effects is the perfect place for Artists: Organizing Yourself for Success So what are you waiting for? Join us and millions of others in learning The special summer offer is here - The first in the description will get a 1-month free creativity today! In October 336BC, on the eve of launching II of Macedon died to an assassin's dagger, future. But as soon as the monarch's body had been of Philip's most respected generals, immediately son Alexander, who ascended to the throne This young king inherited three key things army with its stalwart phalanx, brilliant Secondly, the Hellenic League - a post-Chaeronea Sparta. Finally, Alexander inherited a Macedonian 10,000 troops under generals Parmenion and But these inheritances were tenuous, and to and appease. Showing his mettle, the new king and his ruthless purge of key opponents. A loyal friend was dispatched to Asia Minor commands, he flipped Parmenion to Alexander's who had been conspiring with external enemies. That decisive stroke purged perhaps the most kingship. Philip's death had also left the wider geopolitical anti-Macedonian rumblings in the conquered as well as unrest in subdued tribal areas Although advised by Antipater and others to instead chose boldness and audacity. He grabbed 3,000 handpicked cavalry and sped royal authority. Arriving at the Vale of Tempe, Alexander found held against him by a strong Thessalian force, whether or not to admit him. Unwilling to sit by while this recalcitrant men carve steps into the seaward side of Mount up on the Thessalians from behind. He was quickly acknowledged as their overlord With blistering speed, Alexander rode south Council declare him hegemon at Thermopylae. Then, before the Greeks even knew what was outside Thebes, shocking the proud city and Athens, which always chafed under Macedonian Alexander of its loyalty. His boldness, daring and ability having scared the Hellenic League at Corinth, had his status He did all of this in the course of two short The winter leading into 335 BC was spent giving warfare. Now that Greece had been dealt with, Alexander and Illyria, so that they were not a threat When spring of 335 arrived, Alexander advanced heavy infantry Pezhetairoi, 8,000 lighter Arrian states that the Macedonian army first Haemus', 'where the lower slopes of the This was probably the modern Shipka Pass. There, a substantial force of Thracians occupied with a wagon fort. But Alexander, prescient both to his own weakness that it was their plan to send the wagons He warned the heavy infantry of this and carefully With that taken care of, Alexander ordered regiments in the centre and his hypaspists As predicted, the Thracians sent their wagons tightly packed Macedonians. Following their king's instruction, the gaps to let the wagons go by harmlessly if locked shields above their head if not. Not a single soldier was lost to the Thracian with a cheer, morale at a high. With the primary threat dealt with, Alexander position in front of the phalanx, where they by loosing arrow volleys. When the heavy troops, whose advance was eased they easily dislodged an enemy whose armour 1,500 tribesmen were killed, but a significant Captured women, children, equipment and goods Descending onto the Danubian plain, and the three days' march from the Danube at a tributary Syrmus - King of the Triballians, had been army's movement ever since their incursion Realising he had to take action, the chief women and children, to a large island in the Alerted to this suspicious population movement, However, he had only just set off when the cut by a second Triballian force, which slipped Decisively turning about, Alexander found near the Lyginus. His pace appears to have caught them with into a wooded glen. Loath to risk his heavy infantry, the king troops to pepper the lighter-armed Triballians the hail, they charged out. With his Thracian foe now shorn of their defensive good fighters, Alexander sent a wing of hetairoi tribesman to ribbons. 3,000 of them died, at the cost of 54 Macedonians. Three days' march later and Alexander reached refuge, known as Peuce. There, as planned, he rendezvoused with a manned them with heavy troops and archers, Unfortunately for the Macedonians, a mixture and a fierce current led to the failure of Seeing he was getting nowhere, Alexander withdrew By that time, a formidable band of 10,000 had gathered on the far side of the Danube. Rather than seeing this as a threat though, and the island might well surrender out of But his army had to cross the Danube, and So, Alexander ordered that every single native should be made from tents stuffed with hay. Thus provisioned with such a makeshift fleet, boldly ferried 4,000 of his infantry and 1,500 Successful, he disembarked them on a section nearby Getae by tall fields of grain. Just before dawn, the king drew up his forces with their sarissae, and cavalry behind. The moment Alexander's strikeforce broke his 1,500 cavalry straight at the Getae, while went forward in lock-step. Impacted by the fearsome companion cavalry Getae collapsed and fled to a nearby town, But, hotly pursued by the Macedonians, the as they could and fled onto the steppe. After leading his triumphant troops back to became reality. Syrmus and his Triballians, awed into submission of capitulation to the king. At about the same time, an embassy of tall The king asked these veritable giants what his name. Instead, they famously remarked that they Alexander was not pleased, but sent them off With the potential danger posed by Thrace south via the Shipka Pass. Rather than turning south, Alexander pivoted Langarus of the Agrianians who had accompanied 'Agrianes' skirmishers. There, he learned that three Illyrian rulers were in revolt against him. But for the moment, all of the king's enemies So, leaving his faithful Agrianian colleague to assail Cleitus' mountain stronghold at The plain on which this citadel stood, dominating sides by densely wooded hills which could It was hard to get in, but also hard to get The moment Alexander marched his army onto to safety behind the walls. Such freedom of the land allowed the Macedonian siege equipment. That proved to be a tactical error on Alexander's Less than 24 hours later, Glaucias and his strong positions on the wooded heights encircling In need of supplies, the king dispatched the to forage near the hills. Noticing this, Glaucias shifted his forces reacted swiftly. Moving to Philotas' aid with a picked force king managed to save his comrade and send Despite this small win, the fact remained entirely by the king's hasty miscalculation. If Alexander attempted to withdraw through Cleitus' Pelium garrison would assail his If he stayed where he was, unable to gather would be inevitable destruction. To his credit, Alexander thought fast and He drew up the sarissa phalanx into a mass on either side. Then the king had his highly disciplined infantry At a signal the phalangites would've, in before lowering them to horizontal. Like a programmed machine of a war, they pivoted utter silence. Disconcerted and enthralled by this unprecedented were not ready when Alexander gave his final Suddenly, the infantry clattered their spears At the same time, the left flank of the Macedonian charged a portion of Glaucias' men guarding The demoralised Taulantians, taken aback by their hilltop positions and withdrew into Taking advantage of the opportunity his maneuvering an escape route - a ford in the Apsus just He secured a hill overlooking it without resistance followed by the phalanx. Realising their quarry might be about to escape on the crossing point. But Alexander, the companions and agrianes siege catapults could be set up on the far This first ever use of 'field artillery' crossing to be completed, and all of a sudden, Not having lost a single man in extricating away, Alexander withdrew a few miles from scouting parties to see what Glaucias and After three days of general recuperation, news. Believing Alexander was gone, the Illyrians fortifications or trenches3. Sensing that an opportunity was ripe for the force of companions, Agrianes and some archers, Under the cover of a dark night, the Macedonian his Agrianians at the forefront, assaulted It was a slaughter. As Arrian relates: "Some they killed in as they tried to escape. Many were caught and killed on the spot, many Cleitus, his entire army cut down or scattered Pelium, set it ablaze and then fled to refuge forces suffered a similar fate. Our primary sources do not detail exactly believes that the Macedonians marched up the where they reunited with a victorious Langarus. With news of victory, however, the Agrianian Always hating their new, ignominious place Athens, together with a number of other Greek some time. But when dangerous rumours spread that Alexander Triballians, Thebes in particular took the Alexander's garrison there4 and raised the Alexander, angered but understanding that elements in the court at Pella and might even Moving over 30,000 troops 250 miles at a speed the king descended into Thessaly, passed Thermopylae Not long after that, in September 335BC, he outside Thebes, much to the disbelief of the There was surely no way for an army of such off barbarian country. Moreover, Alexander was dead anyway, as the of new Macedonian recruits under Antipater. Only slowly did the Thebans realise, to their alive and in charge. Fortunately for Thebes, the king's temper Keen to reconcile with Greece so he could Empire, Alexander merely demanded that two and Prothytes, be handed over, and everything The Thebans spat on this olive branch, making Antipater should instead be handed to them. Moreover, all who wanted Greece free from the banner of the Great King and Thebes. As Alexander flew into a rage at this nerve-grazing the gates and made lightning attacks on the killing a decent number of the king's troops they were repulsed. Night fell, passed and then the sun rose again, to the Electra Gate, which was within shouting Cadmeia fortress. It is somewhat difficult to reconcile the However, after three days, it seems as though Alexander's, left the walls and deployed of the relentless phalanx to meet them. Other, smaller units were seconded to assault while another small contingent under Perdiccas As Roman historian Quintus Curtius Rufus relates a force that could hardly be withstood because of the phalanx, but the Thebans were superior in the gymnasium.' Fighting with grim determination to defend defenders came with a hairs' breadth of However, at the decisive moment, the mobile Theban line and managed to break into the of Alexander's archers. Worse still, the Macedonian garrison in Cadmeia, even further disorder. When the king had his phalanx redouble their was inside the walls, routed. Their cavalry managed to flee across into The throng of stampeding, terrified hoplites clogged and could not be closed before the Bitter, brutal street fighting followed during a valiant last stand near the Ampheum. But the Macedonians and their allies, sweeping them from every side. Thebes was brutally sacked. Arrian tells us that the main culprits were from Boeotia, such as the Phocians, Thespians played a part. Doors were kicked in, houses and temples throughout or 'subjected to outrage without limit', By nightfall, the bloodbath had claimed 6,000 Alexander entrusted the broken city's final to it. As he probably intended, these Boeotians decided the remainder of the city was utterly annihilated, Every woman and child would be sold into slavery. News of Thebes' grisly fate reverberated the execution of anti-Macedonian demagogues Compliance was the order of the day. Turning his burning gaze to Athens, which obvious role in the outbreak, Alexander coldly who had 'opposed his interests'. Instead, an Athenian known as Demades went to forgive and forget, which he reluctantly But this final clemency didn't avail him With Thebes' unprecedented and shocking nail into the coffin of his relationship with 'Outwardly they collaborated, with cynical '-But they never forgave him... After their first shocked terror had worn hardened into a bitter and implacable hatred." But for the moment the king was not overly The invasion of the Achaemenid Empire was the next episode, so make sure you are subscribed Please, consider liking, commenting, and sharing Our videos would be impossible without our whose ranks you can join via the links in early access to our videos, access our discord, This is the Kings and Generals channel, and