This is my child, I offer my child back Oh my God Who are you? I live nearby. I don't know who you are. Go home. If not, I'll call the police. Go home. The baby is so good. This lady's house is here. My son is here. Is anyone home? This is my son, please take my son back to me. My wife left, just leave my son here. I don't know who this guy is. He doesn't have any documents. He suddenly told me that his son was the only one . What word, this guy says it first. Stray dog, don't let me get close. Today I will spend the last of my money to buy a pig to raise. I will take my son to buy a pig. This guy is harrowing the field. Prepare. winter-spring rice cultivation It rains and the soil is moist so it's easier to harrow the field. You have to harrow many times to make the soil soft and smooth. This guy uses a harrow to toss the seedlings. When the seedlings germinate, they will become young rice plants that can be transplanted into the field at a corner. This field can grow about 2 fields. Mother and child have arrived. Is anyone home? Does your family still raise piglets? Yes, my family has 6 piglets. Please come here and see. I want to get a female pig to give birth in the future. The pig looks very beautiful and fat. All animals have the same stripes . I brought the mother and her child from the forest to raise it. When they grow up, they must be very big and beautiful. This is a red-striped pig that will still be red like its mother when it grows up. Let me go in and catch piglets for you. Give me a female pig so she can give birth in the future . There are 2 females in this herd. I will catch the biggest and most beautiful one of 9kg . Thank you. Thank you. She gave me sugarcane. Hey , thank you. I 'm so good. I'm home. Mom, please put me down. Hello . Hello. Are your legs tired? Can I wear sandals, mom? Let's go slowly. We're home. Bon: I'll put the pig in there to raise. Bon, come here and see this pig . Bon: Pig, be good. When I have money, I'll buy another pig to live with mom and me. Let's go pick vegetables for the pigs. May I ask where Ms. Huong's house is? Go over another hill to get there. Thank you . Go find food for the pig. Carefully hook it to your leg. Is anyone home? Is anybody at home? Is anybody at home? Is anybody at home? This diploma is enough for a pig. Let 's go home. Let's go home. Bon: Mom, let's go home . Who put the bag there? Who put the bag there? Let me check Let me check Why would someone leave a gift bag here? You can't eat it, it's from a stranger. Bon: I want to eat. Let the baby eat it. It's from a stranger. Who would leave a gift here? Mom, please feed Bon . You can't eat it . Crying. .. give me something to eat I'm hungry Give me something to eat Mommy please give me something to eat Chop vegetables for the pigs to eat Baby Bon is upstairs waiting for mom Take straw to make a nest for the pigs so they don't get cold Make a nest for the pigs Mom peel Let's eat sugar cane for us both. Mom and I gave it to you. Today, my grandmother sold me some sugar cane. This sugar cane is so delicious . Eat it. Bon, come down here and watch the pigs eat. Dear pig friend. Dear pig friend. Oh, let mom close the door. Close the garden. Then let's go upstairs. Bon, let mommy eat, feed the baby. Grandma eat too. Yes, grandma left me. She's not with us. She left. Then Bon, do you remember your grandmother? Yes Eat a lot and then grow up and go find your grandmother Mom, Yesterday I dreamed about my grandmother Eat a lot until I grow up and then you and I will go find my grandmother Do you eat green vegetables? Yes, let me eat some green vegetables. Here are some green vegetables. It's delicious, Mom. Eat it all. I'll get more for you. Mom, give me more soup. How delicious? It's so good that the child is repairing the house and eating noodles. Taking advantage of the time when the child is sleeping, I go to harvest the pumpkin tops downstairs in the house . The new pumpkin flower season is very beautiful. It grows a lot, so I will pick and sell part of it. It is not eaten by worms. Garden There are a lot of squash vegetables, pumpkin flowers, and there are also fruits. The bees go looking for honey. What is the selling price? Each bunch costs 5 VND. Where did you get these flowers? These flowers are from my garden on the hill. Oh, they look delicious. Okay, I'll buy all of this. Thank you so much. Pig friend. Pig friend. Pig friend. Pig friend. Let's go upstairs. Is anyone home? Is the other child alone? Where has your mother gone? Mom, you're already at work. So I'll give you this mattress. You're so good. Aren't you afraid of being alone? I'll get you a mattress, sleep warmly. Can I come up to your house and play with you? Okay, sleeping on this mattress will be warm at night. Do you like it? Is there another child living alone like that? I'm sorry. Please bring me this leaf. Are you good? Are you good when you stay with your mother? Yes Are there only two other mothers and children living together? Please go up to the house , I'm going up to the house, uncle, I'm going home . I'll follow you. I'm going up to the house, I'm going home. Uncle , please come up with me. So, uncle? Wait here for your mom to come home. Yes, that banana is big. You're good. What 's wrong with your leg ? Oh my god!!! Who are you? I live nearby, I'm just coming to visit. Who let you into my house ? I'm just coming here to visit my child. Is it my child? Is it your child? I heard people say you found a baby Who are you??? I am the child's biological father. I went to work far away from home. I left my wife and son behind. I heard that my wife ran away from home and abandoned the child. After several days of searching, I heard that my child was at home. So I came here. I don't know who you are. Go home, otherwise I'll report you to the police. Next time don't come to my house . Oh my god, why is there even a mattress? Chop vegetables. Let me bring food for the stray dog. Let's give food to the stray dog, Bon. Let's go to the house to eat. Mom, I have delicious food. Mom , it's delicious. Isn't it delicious, Mom? Mom, how delicious, Mom. There's a dog , Mom, eat it. Baby, eat it. Mom, this is really delicious. I'll give it to mom . Yes, mom, please . Eat it too . That's good . Tomorrow, mom, cook for the baby to eat. Let's play here and wait for mom. Picking vegetables, Bon, what are you doing ? I'm watering the vegetables. Yes, wait there for mom. Don't go anywhere. The wind is blowing, it's very cold. Baby Bon, go home . Let's go home and go to the market. Your clothes are all wet. Already? Mom, it's a banana tree . It's a banana. It's a banana for the baby. Bon eats it. Goodbye banana, yes. Goodbye banana. Let's go to the store. Goodbye banana. Give me 1kg. Yes, how much does each kilogram cost? 5 dong per kg? Yes, I'll get it for you. 1kg, please . That's good, take it on the scale for me. That's really good. Round 1kg . This is change . Oh, I forgot, thank you. 1kg is a lot, isn't it? It's delicious. More than 1kg, just 1kg. Mom, please give me the money to pay the lady. I'll pick it up here for you . Okay , where is the banana? ah, there's that banana. That's the banana. We 're home . Let's go upstairs. Her house is here. My son is here . She won't let me take him away. She said it's her son. Yes. anyone at home? Is anyone home? This guy is here to solve it for me This is my child. This is my son . Please come down here to work. Yes, wait a moment. Please come down here and make things clear. Report to you that my wife left home and my wife took the child. Let's leave it at this house. This girl adopted me. This is my son. My wife ran away from home and brought it back. I don't know you, nor do you know him. Do you have any documents to prove that this is your son? I do n't believe it. Everything I said is true. Over the past few days, I've encountered many things that have scared me. I don't believe you. I'm telling the truth... I don't believe you... Wait a minute, this guy should speak first Yes More than a year ago, you and your wife had a child . Because my family is so poor, I had to work far away to earn money to send back to my wife and children. Raise the child here . Then, a few months ago, I couldn't contact my wife and children anymore. I immediately returned to my hometown . Searching for my children all the time . Searching and searching. I couldn't find my wife anywhere, and I couldn't find my children anywhere. I saw people telling me about my wife. I left home. I took my child away and I don't know where he is. I've been looking for my child for more than 2 months. People told me that my child was abandoned at this house . This woman took my child in . This is the truth. It's true that it's my son. That's what I told you. Do you have a birth certificate or any documents to prove it? Yes, now... When my wife and I got married, our marriage was not registered due to lack of understanding, so we didn't have a birth certificate or any documents . Don't you have any? But in my village over there, everyone knows. Report it to me so everyone knows. It's your turn, tell me . I picked up this child right in front of my house, but... I don't know where this man came from. I don't have any documents to prove it, but if I want to take my child away, can I just say take it and take it away? I have raised my child for so long, knowing what this man is planning to do with my child? If this guy can't prove himself, I won't give him my child. Now this guy also doesn't have any papers to prove that he's the baby's father. Neither side has any papers. But this is me telling the truth. Okay, I will verify and investigate further. Is this your adopted child? Yes, I adopted my child when I was very young. Now this guy takes me away, I know where he took me, and for what purpose? This guy also doesn't have any papers to prove it. This is my child. Many people know . It's just that I don't have any papers to prove it. It 's actually my child. Now I'll say this for now . This guy doesn't. If you can come here to harass me, I know where your house is. I'm not here to harass you, just to visit my child. Now I will report to my superiors for more specific verification . Don't come here to threaten and make people afraid. Okay, this girl is alone so she's scared. I see that she's also a good person, taking care of her children all along. For now, please take good care of the child, I will monitor it. Then I will wait until the investigation and verification is complete before I can get my child back? That's right Yes, I agree So during this time, please allow me to visit my child. Okay, agreed, I will monitor both of you, don't fight with each other. Now this sister must also let me Come visit my child , don't chase me away all day long. Not when I'm not at home, you're going to steal my child somewhere. I agree. Temporarily agree, go home. Dad, go home. Dad will come over to play tomorrow. I'll come with you. I'll come with you. I'll come with you. I'll come with you. Tomorrow, dad will come over and play with you! I want to have a dad... A few days later I planted purple sugarcane. Taking advantage of the drizzle and the wet soil, I will plant purple sugarcane. This garden used to grow cassava, I have harvested it all. Sow the grass to clean the soil . I love this job, working in my small garden Purple sugar cane, they are so soft and sweet I think about the fact that I can no longer raise baby Bon. How will I live? Baby Bon is everything to me. Will I have to be alone.... I'm so sad . I'll keep working. Heaven It rained a lot so the grass grew very quickly. I raked the grass to make it clean. Hoe holes to put the sugarcane down to plant. It was raining, the ground was wet so the soil was a bit sticky. It started to rain harder. Sometimes it rained. Sometimes it stopped. The weather was really bad. I'm often afraid Bon will leave me for that man. I don't know if he is a good person or not? Just planting sugarcane can be planted with stems or tops . Fill it with soil, but don't need to be too tight, so it can easily germinate and shoot out of the ground. It's raining again. It's finally done. I don't know what to say other than thank you everyone. Those who have always cared for me and encouraged me and my mother, thank you very much!