This episode was made possible by generous Hey Crazies. In my last video, I explained how mass and and that got a bunch of you wondering: What the heck is energy? I've said a lot about energy on this channel, It's time to put it all in one place. Hmm, where do we start this? Definitions? We have to be careful though. Physics tends to use a lot of ordinary words and "Energy" is no exception. There are a lot of ways we use this word in I feel the energy of the spirits. Definitely not what we're talking about. Oh man, I am so out of energy. Good example, but not really a definition. I get energy for the power grid. Again, good example, but not a definition. A typical definition for physical energy is but that just raises more questions. What the heck is work?! You don't got to go to work work work work. Ok, the point is we can't understand energy We need both together. But let's make something clear. Energy and work are just properties. They're numbers. Objects and particles are physical things Objects and particles have properties, like Work work work work. Take a ball, for example. We can label where it is by assigning a property called "position." We can label its motion by assigning a property called "velocity." An object can have motion and that motion is real, but the velocity we assign to it is not. It's just a useful number. Properties are useful because they measure All of these properties here, measure all We need to figure out exactly what energy Work is a little easier to understand, so Everybody's working for the weekend! A typical definition for work is that it's as long as that force contributes in some Let's say you wanted to do work on this All you'd have to do is push on it with That force times the book's displacement We know a force measures the influence or interaction amount, so it makes perfect sense that forces are involved in work. The key here is this displacement. In order for work to be done on the book, If the object doesn't go anywhere, then No matter how much it feels like work to you. A working class hero is something to be! Stuff has to happen for work to be done. In fact, that tells us exactly what it is. Work is the amount of stuff that has happened the amount of stuff that will happen. So what's that make energy? Well, let's look back at the definition. If energy is the ability or capacity to do and work is the amount of stuff that has or then energy is the amount of stuff that could There is an upper limit to how much stuff and that upper limit is measured as energy. Thanks for liking and sharing this. Wait a minute! What stuff?! Do you think the crazies are going to be satisfied OK, I guess you're right. OK, so there is a lot of stuff that could Lifting, swimming, climbing, dancing, swinging, doing other things, boiling, electrifying, chemical reactions, nuclear explosions. Let's just say there are a lot of options. Right, so how could all those things be the They're all examples of energy being used If you're lifting a box, you're turning chemical energy in your body into gravitational nergy. That change does work on the box, moving it You didn't use all the energy inside your Just a little bit. All of the energy in your body is all the The work is what you actually do. That box now has energy it can use to do stuff, The gravitational energy is gradually turned That's not even all the energy inside that box. Sure, it has gravitational and kinetic energy, not an absolute zero and a whole list of other energies tied up in the material. None of which are getting used to do work. The only work done is the box falling. That's the stuff that's happening. So how do we measure these things, anyway? Well, we don't, at least not directly. Unlike position or velocity, energy and work We have to calculate their value by measuring If it's gravitational energy, we measure usually the ground, and calculate the energy using some equation. Twice as high means twice the energy, meaning If it's kinetic energy, we calculate it with a measured speed. Twice the speed means four times the energy, There are equations for finding all types and every single one adds to what an object could possibly do. If you can change energy from one type to another or move it from one object to another, you're doing work. Something will be happening. Working in a coalmine, going down down. There are a lot of different places we can so it helps to split them into categories. We could take the list and organize it based but there's something we can do that's All energies can be described by two generic Potential Energy, related to location, and That's all there really is. Remember, the purpose of energy is to show and the only way things happen is if they Location and motion pretty much cover that, as potential and/or kinetic energy. Nuclear energy is just the potential energy Chemical energy is just the potential energy Thermal energy is wiggly kinetic energy plus But don't location and motion depend on Yep, and that's more evidence that energy Energy is not a thing by itself. It's a property of things, all have to agree on how much is there. If location and motion are relative to the then so are potential and kinetic energy. There's always some kind of reference point where you define zero. For kinetic energy, it's usually your own speed. Two observers moving at different speeds aren't going to agree on the motion of a third object, so they're not going to agree on its energy either. That's perfectly fine because energy isn't a tangible thing. It's just a number. A similar thing happens for potential energy. For gravitational energy, the reference is but there's nothing special about that choice. You could move that reference around and it's totally fine. What matters is the difference in energy between two events across time. That's the work done. That's what's actually happening. She works hard for the money! So what the heck is energy?! Energy is amount of stuff that could happen. But, in the end, all that really matters is and that takes work. So, got any questions about energy? Please ask in the comments. Thanks for liking and sharing this video. Don't forget to subscribe if you'd like to keep up with us. And until next time, remember, it's OK to The featured comment comes from Dale Hildebrand who said: The idea of relativistic mass can lead to false conclusions. Well, yeah, sure it can. I even said in the video that it can get really confusing. But that doesn't mean relativistic mass isn't real. It just means that it stopped being useful. Anyway, thanks for watching!