Flayed flesh! Psychological torment! you absolutely don't want in there! What's gonna count down the top 25 historical And believe us, the last one Number 25 - Waterboarding! Kicking off the list of most painful tortures is involves strapping the victim down, placing pouring more water over it to keep it soaking wet, The pain caused by waterboarding is sessions can lead to oxygen deprivation, lung victim struggles against their restraints. way back to the Spanish Inquisition, but its so-called &quot;enhanced interrogation&quot; Speaking of enhanced interrogation... Number 24 - Sleep Deprivation! This is another form of torture that was commonly called 'the frequent flyer program', because times a night and moving them from cell to cell. involved shackling them in uncomfortable or playing loud music at all hours of the night. This torture has been recorded everywhere and was even used in American prisons as recently As the name implies, it involves caning the Unlike regular run-of-the-mill this torture doesn't cause lasting injury, but that doesn't make it any less painful. It How about some mouth torture? This instrument of torture and and America in the 16th century. It was and was designed as a punishment for The scold's bridle was a metal mask with into the mouth. This would prevent since even a slight movement of the tongue would the masks would often have animal and sometimes included a bell around the This next one is sure to Number 21 - Denailing. Unfortunately, it's basically exactly what it on your fingers and toes are yanked out. Think still used today in places like Venezuela nail and had to rip the broken part off, you During the Armenian genocide in the 1910s, there nails ripped off but also of sharp wire and Now, from pulling nails to pulling hair... Number 20 - Pitchcapping. This form of torture goes back to common during the Irish Rebellion like a body wax on steroids- a conical would be forced onto the victims' head, then taking all of the person's hair and a lot of their But, unlike our next example, at Number 19 - The Rack. To paraphrase Charli XCX, when you you want to hear the torture classics, and The rack was a wooden frame designed The victim's wrists and ankles would be strapped would be dislocated over time as the crank was today, but the rack actually dates back much the interrogation of a suspected arsonist called Speaking of joint dislocation... Number 18 - Strappado. This was a popular form of public punishment in would be lifted up off the ground by the wrists, would lead to the shoulder joints dislocating, This one was reportedly performed origin of the term "Machiavellian" - and it was also used by the North It was extremely painful, but not Number 17 - Tarring and Feathering! This was a common act of vigilante where a suspected criminal would be and then rolled in feathers. We've ranked it from this practice, but sometimes the tar was usually came with the added bonus of being If you were really unlucky, they'd a man named John Malcom was not only whipped, tied to a tree, then force-fed But at least it won't drive you Number 16 - White Torture. This is a form of sensory deprivation, is kept in a soundproof white room, made to white food from white plates. The lighting of and the floors are soft so that the prisoner This might not sound especially heinous at going weeks without any new sensory hallucinations, and full-on psychotic break. But enough about psychological pain, let's get Number 15 - Dismemberment. This is a form of torture and execution that gruesome dismemberment method was described According to Lithgow, a punishment for murder in then wrapped around the waist with increasingly have you ever seen what happens when you put a one strike with the executioner's blade, that's But that's not the only nasty Number 14 - Hanging, Drawing, and Quartering. This was the sentence for men convicted 1300s. This punishment involved being a horse and dragged through the street, The key word here is 'almost'? Why? Because they wanted him to still be alive for the part where they emasculated Then, as icing on the cake, he was was cut into quarters. We specify 'he', used on men. Women suspected of treason a naked woman being dragged behind a horse But that's nowhere near the nastiest Number 13 - The Catherine One form of torture that was famously used on so named for St Catherine, who according just by touching it before she was set to be iron-rimmed wheel that would roll over a A Catherine Wheel torture session usually started got to the chest and the victim died from having happen, and plenty of people survived up to a week One German murderer in 1581 having been deliberately We can think of a more painful Number 12 - The Breast Ripper Also known as the iron spider, this was an iron clamp that sort of looked like It was often heated before use, and as for its on the label. Like other famous torture devices, there's debate among historians on or if it was just a piece of Victorian-era list since there seems to be at least some Saint Barbara and Agatha of Sicily this instrument before being So, in the name of equality, Number 11 - Castration. Removal of the testicles has been a form of with prominent records of it being used Italo-Ethiopian war of 1935. More online of Russian soldiers castrating Castration isn't just for war criminals, Pakistani Kashmir, and in the castration is used as a punishment for who have abused children. In the past, it was which is what happened to English mathematician Now, back to another classic... Number 10 - The Brazen Bull. Also called the Phalaris Bull, after Phalaris this was a hollowed-out bronze statue of a being tortured would be shoved into the statue, up until the person inside burned to death. designed in a way that the smoke coming from through the bull's nostrils, and the echoes of Ingenious torture method, right? The gotten some kind of bonus Well, true to form for a guy who would order the first victim to go into the bull was Let's keep the temperature Number 9 - Boiling Alive. This is another one that appears because dunking people in hot liquid Japanese bandit Ishikawa Goemon was boiled In 1420 in Scotland, the laird of Glenbervie was had a spoonful of their macabre broth During Henry VIII's reign in England, boiling was poisoning. One contemporary source of a public some pregnant women threw up and fainted at pretty boring, and would have preferred to Even in the modern day, ISIS would sometimes boil their enemies alive in hot engine oil. Number 8 - Crucifixion. This is a method of execution where victims and left to die out in the elements. While we in with the Romans, the practice is actually In Ancient Rome, crucifixion was enemies of the state, and slaves Even today, crucifixion is still technically on Saudi Arabia and Iran. In both countries, the three days on the cross, you're free It's still a nicer experience Number 7- The Spanish Donkey. This next torture method really gives new ass.' The Spanish Donkey, also called the bench that pointed upwards. A victim would have forced to spread their legs and straddle the In some cases their legs would in place and increase the strain on their but it did cause tearing, severe pain ability to walk. This torture was used but was also used as a form of extreme discipline Now, let's get down and dirty... Number 6 - Live Burial. This is a truly gruesome way to die you'll eventually succumb to a lack of for a variety of crimes in medieval europe, most In ancient China, the emperor Qin Shi Huang is alleged to have buried alive and during the Holocaust some people were and later had to dig their way out. As recently American First Infantry Division might have But at least you go to the grave in one piece... Number 5 - Sawing In Half. There's variation from place to place on transversely. Either way, you're getting cut they would saw you in half transversely-that Simon the Zealot, one of Jesus' apostles, they and cutting from the crotch to the head. Sawing to minimize the body moving around the victim was seated and held in Speaking of China, this next method is one of Number 4 - The Death of a This involved tying the prisoner to a wooden frame over a long period. This torture was reserved and patricide- but sometimes it was used for This torture was considered particularly removing pieces from a person's body stops them But at least it doesn't get animals involved... Number 3 - Rat Torture. During the Eighty Years War of the Sonoy once tortured a prisoner then placing that bowl face-down When Diederik heated up the bowl with hot started burrowing through the prisoner's Almost makes you want to peel your Number 2 - Flaying. This is the practice of removing a person's most detailed accounts of flaying as a form who lived in the middle east around the 9th to couldn't get enough of flaying, as the act is kind of like a torture selfie. In one quote King 'I have flayed all the rebel leaders; I have But even that is nothing compared Number 1 - Scaphism. This, in our own humble opinion, definitely this was a method used by the ancient Persians. force fed to the point of sickness, then doused the boat is sealed off, leaving only the The process of force feeding and repeated every day in order to worms and other vermin. By this agonizing vomit and excrement and is eventually devoured Now check out Most Brutal Torture Methods