Shodoshima Diner Run by 80-Year-Old Mother Yes, it is. Maybe it's the mother's taste. You must be hungry! I think my favorite part of the restaurant is the proprietress! She's fine! How many years have you been going there? About 50 years. Three generations of parents and children (and they go to the store). Really. I didn't like it at first, but it's getting interesting, I guess. I get a lot of customers. You can work hard even if it's hard. Thank you! Shodoshima, Shodo-gun, Kagawa Prefecture. An island in the Seto Inland Sea, blessed with mild climate throughout the year. Fukuda, a port town connected to Himeji by ferry, attracts tourists and businessmen. 2 min. walk south from Fukuda Port. Island diner run by 80 years old mother. Sano-san, the owner, came to the restaurant. Good morning! Sano-san's mother opened the diner about 56 years ago, and he has taken over the restaurant for 32 years. A store in the store. Since there are no stores nearby, ferry passengers and local children use the store. Store owner heads out to take out the trash in the morning. Sano-san runs the diner by himself, except on busy days. Preparation begins. Eggs are boiled. Cut potatoes. (Staff) Potatoes from the neighbors? (Owner) Because people bring me things like scraps from the fields. So I'm going to make potato salad. It's a waste. Put the potatoes on the fire. Rice is cooked. Carefully check amount of water. Making green perilla juice. Add citric acid and mix. (Owner) This is green perilla juice. This is not for sale, though. I'll make it and let everyone drink it. (Shopkeeper) I'll give you a drink later. It's delicious. Stored in a refrigerator in the store. We had freshly made green perilla juice. Aroma of shiso spreads and tastes refreshing, perfect for a hot day. Oden preparation. Making oden soup stock in succession. Seasoning with sugar or salt. Add Yamahira soy sauce, a long-established local soy sauce from Shodoshima, Japan. Ingredients such as eggs and tofu are added. Make sujikon. At most, 200 oden are prepared. Cook for 2 hours until the flavor is absorbed. Potatoes and eggs are cooked. Boiled eggs are cooled. Eggs shelled. Potatoes are mashed. Leave for a while and take off heat. Make pickled cucumber with mustard. Making mustard for oden. Add white miso paste. (Shopkeeper) Karashi to add to oden. Most people don't put it on. Because it tastes too strong. I make barley tea. Cut purple onions for potato salad. Cut cucumbers. Boiled egg cut. Season with salt and pepper. Ham is added. (Owner) Because it's been 32 years since I took over the restaurant myself. (Since I started the store) I think it's been about 56 years. (Staff) How old are you now? (Owner) Eighty years old. His mother ran the store by herself. It was always a children's store with a lot of children. It's a candy store, okonomiyaki, and teppan. Teppan that has been used since the store was built. Potato salad is ready. (Staff) Why did you take over the restaurant? (Owner) Because my mother suddenly collapsed. I didn't want to do it, but people just told me it was a waste. (Staff) You weren't too keen on it at the beginning? (Owner) Not only did I not get into it, I still don't like it. (Owner) The food itself tastes like your mother's? (Owner) Yes, it does. Maybe it tastes like my mother's. I didn't even get the recipe for oden, I just knew because I was eating it. So everybody. They say, "Give me the recipe," but I can't give it to them. I put it in by eye. It's already a feeling. TAI from Shodoshima, given to me by a neighbor. Preparing fish. Carefully remove scales and guts from fish. Making Nanban-zuke (fish marinated in soy sauce). Cut onions for Nanban pickles. Make pickling sauce with rice vinegar and soy sauce. Put fried fish into marinade. (Owner) Fukuda can get tai anytime. People in this area don't need tai. But cooked like this, it's delicious. Because people outside of the prefecture eat it well. The owner was born and raised in the town of Fukuda. (Shopkeeper) Not so much anymore. There were dozens of boats. The boats that carry stones. They're gone now. All the men went to Kobe or Osaka by boat. The area called Fukuda speaks an almost Kansai dialect. This is the only place in Shodoshima that speaks Kansai dialect. There's no people left at all. There were 500 or 600 kids alone. I have kids come to the store from time to time. Only about two or three people come in here. Preparing tonkatsu. Making soup stock with iriko (dried sardines). Put on fire for a while. Make miso soup with the broth taken out. Onions. Tofu. Wakame seaweed. Miso. Miso soup is completed. Kamaboko cut. Cut to even numbers, since two pieces are used for each. Sweep carefully with broom. The store will open soon. 11:00 store opens. Parking lot across from store. Total of 12 seats. 2 seats at counter. Table seats 10. Daily set meal 650yen. Somen noodles (cold or hot) 450yen. Oden (oden) 120yen each. Total 9 kinds. Tabletop condiments sauce, soy sauce, salt, pepper, shichimi. Two men come to the restaurant. They eat oden immediately. This is the third time he comes to the restaurant, a customer from Himeji on business. Oden is well soaked and delicious. Two cold udon noodles and tonkatsu (single item) are ordered. Chilled udon noodles are made. Chilled udon noodles are completed. Tonkatsu (single dish) is made. Served with lettuce, cabbage and potato salad. Cut deep-fried pork cutlet. Tonkatsu (single piece) is finished, topped with sauce. Delicious! (Staff) What did you ask for today? Beef tendon (sujikon), konnyaku and tofu. Oden tsuyu (soup for oden), I think I keep adding to it, It has a good taste. That's the first thing. And pork cutlet. Okay, this is good. They fry it here. (Staff) Is there anything you like about the restaurant? I think it's the landlady! I'm fine! I'm here on business, and I don't know where I can have a meal before I go back on the boat. I think these restaurants are important. Three customers visit the store. Ginger-yaki set meal order comes in. Pork is fried. Ginger yaki is completed. (Staff) How long have you been going there? About 50 years. Three generations of parents and children go to this restaurant. (Staff) What do you recommend? I recommend oden suji. (Staff) What is your favorite part of the restaurant? I guess the taste. Orders are placed for daily set menus of tonkatsu (pork cutlet) and nanbanzuke (pickled fish). Set meal of fish, nanbanzuke. Tonkatsu with fried fish. Fish is good taste! Fish tastes good. It's delicious! A visitor comes to the restaurant. Local people came with extra fish. (Owner) Very fattening. He makes tonkatsu set meal. Make miso soup. Tonkatsu continues to be completed. Crispy tonkatsu first. He quickly throws rice into his mouth. Fried fish with fresh fish is also excellent! Eating up in no time, It was a feast! Two men come to the store. What is it today? Daily change. (Owner) I have (pork cutlet) and fish in nanbanzuke. I order tonkatsu. Tonkatsu for 2 for daily set meal is made. Two men come to the store. Order Tonkatsu (pork cutlet) and Nanbanzuke (pickled fish) of daily set meal. Serving fish with pickled vegetables. Fish fry is made. Pork cutlet fried. A visitor to Shodoshima on business. It's very nostalgic or delicious. Really. Second time customer. (Staff) How is the food? It was delicious! Oden is the best! With cute mom. Maybe I'll come back the next time I come. A visitor on a road bike comes to the store. Somen noodles (cold) and gingerbread (single order) are ordered. Somen noodles are boiled. Hand-pulled somen, a specialty of Shodoshima. (Owner) I only use Shodoshima's. Make gingerbread. A visitor comes to Shodoshima for cycling. It's delicious. I'm glad the store is open. The owner continues to cook without a break so far. Tonkatsu is finished. (When I come to Fukuda) I always come here. (When I come to Fukuda) I come here all the time. It's delicious and has a lot of food. (It's cheap. That's not the price nowadays. Order katsu-donburi (pork cutlet served with rice). Pork cutlet rice bowl, 700yen. Thick pork cutlet with broth is nostalgic, simple and delicious.... Daily special is a small bowl of rice topped with spicy mustard. Thank you for the food! I get oden. Sujikon 120yen. Oden is light and has a hint of soy sauce. The sweetness and stimulation of mustard enhances the taste. Preparation of fish given by customers. (Staff) You've been in the same place for 32 years, and you've kept the flavor all these years. (Owner) Yes, we have. I've had so many bad experiences, I've thought about quitting so many times. (Staff) What has kept you going in the store? (Owner) I wonder. I didn't like it at first, but it's getting interesting, I guess. I get a lot of customers. Even though it's hard, you can do your best. I don't know what I'd do if I didn't have customers. (Staff) They seem to be quite happy talking with the customers as well. (Owner) Yes. Even if you don't know them, they talk quite normally. I don't use honorifics. Please enjoy the taste of your mother's favorite food on the island, which has not changed over time!