This is a video I never thought I'd be able to of today's generation, but how does he compare to travel back in time to compare.. and there is, time capsule in climbing history. They call it for over 30 years. This was the testing who were the strongest climbers in the world take training seriously and without them This was known as Pod's wall, so there's it. That was in the late 70s. I started climbing in 1980 and it was already known, Pod's Wall gyms? There were no gyms here at that time were the best in the world.. was it like 25 Yeah and even though it was a long time Once you've been there you're always there. Yeah yeah and Adam is currently the best, so I think some of your tests pieces. We're gonna crush him. those guys were so good and I'm so bad, that's what's gonna happen today. But back everything was about endurance and bouldering really wasn't a thing, so if you'd done the hardest boulder problem in the Peak District and you phoned up the magazine hardest boulder problem they'd say we're we're not we're not going to print that, Then you can pinch that thing to get that thing, get that, up to that and then go up there. So this is all the training that remember somebody saying to me one winter in really good for climbing and I remember thinking really believe it, but I'm going to try it for did loads of pull-ups. That's all we did, pull-ups, loads and loads of pull-ups. And then at the beginning of next year we went to Stony Middleton and the top rope route we used to do for training was Wee Doris and I was like.. That's when I started to think that training mark on does training really work, or is it best with training these days aren't they, but climbing is still a very technical sport isn't it. Yeah and what is training? I mean climbing is also training. Yeah. First time you are here, could you climb the the day I don't know anybody who could do this in Like this? Yep, you can do it that way, if you're going up there you might as well do it that that way. Yeah and then match and then where do I go with my..? Foot holds are down here. Okay. Up here is really good. You can get shake out just above it. Just a bit further. Right is good. Your fingers are quite strong. He's done 9b+ Jerry. No that's the other guy, that's the tall guy. Dropping right down there. Your foot is a Okay. So Adam is going to try to onsight this. It's a holds. And then the other one you can do is hand there. This is your last shake out and then this is the crux bit.. the next bit. Yeah crimp that. Crimp that one and get this it's a real .. Awww I had no feeling. Aww I wanted you to do that. You had it! Oh no he's doing it too easy. I'm surprised You feel the pressure? Absolutely. He did that because his fingers are so bloody Oh yeah this is the one I remember it. So we're still just warming up right? Yeah, well Yeah that didn't look like a warm-up anymore. All right everybody looks pretty equal in power at the moment. I think you're edging it at the moment Ben a little bit. Looking a little bit going to show us is around 8A+? I think 8A+, probably, or I suppose Perky Pinky gets 8B, but when you graded those problems that was like You wouldn't grade something 8B, really would you? That would be the same as Adam grading an indoor problem 9A or something, or 8C+. Yeah you know you wouldn't grade something 8B. You just wouldn't do it. You'd just think that's not possible, even than another 8B, or another 8A+ and you know two weeks on one, you go &quot;still 8A&quot;. I think outdoors bouldering now it's just so easy to get you did in Font, you're using like really hard beta just.. Yeah, yeah. Well back then it was hard to find the boulder problems. And there was a bit of a rivalry between France and and Britain at that point..? A of climbing because I remember in the real thing Was it hard back then? No, piece of piss haha. It was okay to be honest, you know I think for what you had to do for your sponsorship compared talk yourself up show a lot of photos, write climbing competitions was pretty good. The prize money, a lot of the competitors who train down here.. I was talking to some recently about prize money and it's less now than it was back in our day. And also, we got paid travel expenses to go to the comps by BMC and now they don't even get was Bercy that was 5000 pounds, but buy a house for 20 000. There was no social media back then so it was all about getting into magazines you know. But that's social media you know, so the sponsors would ask how well have you done in competitions and stuff. Wow. I mean for me it's good, but it's bad for the industry maybe, because it will squeeze out a lot of talented climbers. Yeah. Who are not good at social media. Yeah. What about that um &quot;Pego's gone to&quot; that's a classic as Come on. Easy, come on. You had that. Then you could go footless I gotta say Ben you look pretty strong, I think you made that look easier than Adam. I mean you've done it many I can feel the pressure. All the cameras.. I felt the pressure as well, With all the filming we did in The Real Thing, felt pressure because it was 100 pounds for three minutes, so every time they went, go! And you're just thinking oh my God. And we all split the money. It was three-way split so all of us are chipping And then uh..? Now there's power. Come on! What do you think of the new generation so far, does he look strong? Don't like campusing. We're still warming up. Come on, oh you hit the wall! I would Actually like a hardcore 7C+ from 25 years ago. Tyler Landmann flashed it, when he was like 16. Oh he did. And Adam flashed it now too. And Megos flashed it. Wow. You would join royalty. Oh wow! Yeah, joining the group. I like that be bloody strong for that. Every move like. So this is one of the real thing.. I watched the real thing probably 20 times many things I would still remember, so like to Well this was probably done in 1993 this problem. That's really weird. Isn't it just better to hold first bit bloody horrible. It's all about getting that thing correctly. So how many people have you seen do this problem? Alex flashed not many. I do feel pressure, for sure yeah. All right. Yeah do that. yeah all right. Especially when you hear that Alex pissed up it. Hahah Nearly. Haha, but you made the first move look Oh nice! Wow. Come on! Right foot on the spiky one. Come on, yeah easy. No, no. You didn't quite get that one right, did you? if I placed the foot straight away. I don't think you got that one quite right, did you. That's good. That was a historic moment. Yeah, it doesn't matter. would come and flash this back then would The thought of somebody coming trying to do it first go and being annoyed that they fell off it, it's just insane. Come on. Come on, come on, come on, come on! Nice! When that foot was slipping again and again, I Come on Adam. Come on. Come on. Yeah, well done! I think it was the pressure that got you, you have too much pressure. Yeah. So where did you guys get like knowledge about training never even thought about training. There was no any books back then? There weren't training running. Built a campus board after seeing Wolfgang my back garden and I got this book on Plyometrics. other sports, and you'd read it and you think how relate that to get stronger. You know stronger arms and stuff like that. Because now there are a lot of books, and also Martin and Stian, called The Climbing Bible. You probably recognise the book maybe? Technical physical and mental The Practical exercises. This is a picture of my sister actually. And also you have a book as well? I'd read various articles and I thought wouldn't it be amazing time and ask them, like Adam I asked him about. And I know this would have helped Right. So you guys should check it should we try something harder? Yeah let's do Oh that's a hard move. Good. Oh yeah, if the foot didn't.. You Do you think this one is around 8B? Yeah, Yeah easy, come on Adam. Come on. Yes, come on! Have you seen anyone been closer on the first go? I don't think so. That hasn't been flashes, has it? Yes, you're gonna do it. I thought you that so good. You really got your Come on Adam, yeah that look easy, come on. Come on, yes. Nooo, I was going too static like too careful. Nooo. Do you want some tips Adam? Pull really hard, give it everything. Is this the next problem? Yeah this flushed, Adam did you hear that? Yep, That's close. That was close. Come on, yes.. Easy come on. Well this is an honor. Climbing with Ben Moon on the moon board. Yeah we're gonna do a Ben Moon Benchmark Come on. Come on. Nice one. That's a really good training It's not easy right? Nope, it's a benchmark. getting better? Yeah, it's just getting better, like my endurance is better than it's ever been, in the last three or four years is declining. So I thought I would bring some present up the classic incut crimps of the Moon pinches. And we also have some chips, one that will have them. Wow. So you have designed these yourself? Yeah. So what do you think, how hard is this? I reckon it could be 7A+/7B. Come on, nice. Bicycle, match. No idea how hard that is, could be anything couldn't it. I I don't think it's harder than 7A+, your benchmark 7A was harder Oh I might be able to do it. Do it and say it's 6C Ben. Nice, come on Ben. Always try to be as wide as possible, and use this edge to really bite into this Well you have something to work on. I got project. thank you Ben and Jerry and of I think it's a childhood dream for both you both and climb with you. Make sure you check Board. Also check out Adam on Instagram, YouTube