Behind me are 100 sets of twins, and Everyone go to your cube. Out of these 100 pairs of identical twins, only one is walking away with And if either twin crosses the Let's find out which of you is the best I have never been around Everyone looks In school. Did you I took a test for him. Really? I'm putting that in. Right there, the pot of money. We got this. We got this. But little do they know, this video is going to put Shut up. Let's go. I feel sick to my stomach. I'm so sorry I'm not gonna I don't trust you You'll have to drag Attention, everybody, Every challenge in so that you and your twin In the first challenge, this room You and your twin must work together and enter them on your tablet. If you enter them if you enter the colors Oh gosh I'm low key scared I'm gonna start you off easy. For the Blue, Yellow, Enter the order you Blue, Yellow, Green. What's interesting is some cubes are actually I think we got it. Did you get it? Lock it in. If it's wrong, it's Love you too. Three pairs of twins entered the sequence And fun fact, the three pairs that got eliminated Everyone cheer We salute you. This next sequence is 15 colors. And if you think this is hard, This is getting to be too much. We kept adding more and more Yellow, Green I'm going to see Blue, Yellow, Green I already forgot it. Oh, this is bad. Let's just No! She placed third in our and then in this I messed it up. My heart is absolutely And yeah, 15 colors but not even close to the Did it end on green? No it ended on yellow It ended on yellow. You You're not listening. Why would I listen to you? Help! Help me, help me! Push Submit! All right, everyone has voted and in our final round, 12 This is everyone that was eliminated. And that concludes challenge I told you I'm right! Winners! Winn-ers! Mr Beast. This is the Olympics, and that's my gold Calling it Derting Top two. And like always, we destroyed Karl, that's how Are you all ready Bring out the second challenge! Pay very close attention, this Half of you are going to be Yes, it's going Wow. Everyone pull the Feastables? They're Feastables cubes. One of you in your cube is the other is going The twin who's wearing the blindfold The twin holding the tray will have to move But if you drop even I don't got it! You and your twin Do you want to hold it or stack? I'll hold it. I'll stack You stack. Half of us are going home. And last thing I you'll be competing and only one set of No! No! It's either one of us, Bruh I'm sick! We'll start with this section of Reach out, reach out, reach Get to stacking! Down, there you go. Because the twin who's blindfolded this game completely relies Your opponents already Oh God Gentle, bring it down slowly. Perfect. It's perfect. Oh, no. You guys need to hurry. Bro, hey, your opponent's - Where? Luke I need you to hold. I can't really help you. But completing the tower of The hardest part is moving Dude. They're wobbling a lot This is the most important Oh no! Oh, they Yeah! And remember if the tower somehow falls that also counts as a fall Oh, no. Oh! Oh great! But with some of the other Some chose to not even touch and bet it all on their They're going to drop How many blocks are they No. Are they just Yeah, they're going to sit there. But just waiting for their opponent You got it! This is an interesting strategy Go girl go! Haha okay. They're trying to distract their You're going down! Well you're going to lose. But they're being so loud that the twins all the way across What's the strategy? I don't know I don't know what you have to do What is happening? All right, ten minutes whichever team has the Whoever gets the When the Collins twins realized they quickly began stacking and they were able to tie it How many are they at? They at Five. Jay, it's shaking a lot. I think Less than 20 seconds Wait, I can grab another block. Go straight. Are you going to go for the win? Yeah, we are Hurry hurry! Ten, [Continues on in All right, come, come Seven, Six, Five, Four Here up, stop, be still! Two, One Drop! It touched his nose. - Oh my God! You guys won! No! No way. You're gonna have to But these games were only getting Oh no! adjust the... Oh, it fell! Oh, no. During this challenge, we got to see which Right, come that, Bro just directed him with his - It's a twin thing. But the way some of these you could hardly Dude keep it still. Keep Oh, he almost hit your head. Bro for twins, we are And in our final round, we had two games Two, one. Hands You won! Their stack fell over, Yeah! They are now one step closer And as promised, half of you We're wheeling Get some sleep because the That last challenge The Morrises, we've kind of worked together So right now it's the two of us What do you think kinda feels like heaven Alright goodnight Final 36 baby! - Goodnight! And after the the twins were a lot more We're going to win this We're ready. We're locked in. Good morning everybody! Guards! Bring out the next challenge. Remove the black cloth on the This next game is As you can see, each of It's completely up to you And if you do take it, there is a 50-50 chance you'll be But if you don't take it, you We're going to throw Play it safe and move on, The choice is completely yours. Why don't we just Five grand isn't enough Whatcha doing? Well, this is guaranteed. This is guaranteed, but It's not much. It's a free five grand. I know, but we decided we We came here to win big bucks. The stress from this decision was I say we leave the money. You get too uptight. No no no don't, I'm I want to walk away with No, that is what our You guys officially You don't care No. We just want to win the We want bragging rights! Bad Beast Barbies! And in the final moments, the last few Take the money bro! All right. Put that on my shoulder boy! I always like to ask myself, I think that Jimmy would take and say, nahhhhh! Because eight contestants that means we will be randomly And to ensure its random, we're Grab a random name, and We got bread though! Can you carry me out? Sure. Allen twins come up to the The next elimination is Moore. No! Our greed got the best of us And once again, the eliminated And the next set of twins If we didn't take it, we'd That's life changing money And the final set The DeAngelo twins We got a guaranteed five K? I felt You just got to take Bye guys, good luck! And with that I'm glad I didn't take it! So far in this video, it's been you But for this next challenge, you all as a group will decide Two buttons are going If you press the green button, And if all of you press If you press the red button, Whoever gets the most or nobody has to go home if you you have five minutes to make a decision. Personally, I find it very Being a twin is all Green! Vote green! Like I said, if they all voted But since the Collins twins have You're going down! It didn't seem like that Hey, boys. I think we know Taking justice Word spread quickly and it started a chain reaction which made Stacey and Tracy Stacey and Tracy. Tracy, Stacey. Who's the biggest threat here? Who works hard? Time is up. You guys No. Literally no one thinks that. Okay. Only two pairs of twins received votes. Bye boo And the Collins twins... received 26 votes. Oh, my God. That's a lot of They're scared! Wait we didn't vote for us. They're scared! The witch is dead. Alright thank y'all. I've never seen this many It's a lot quieter And now that the common One and done. One and done. Everyone decided to vote green. Timer has hit zero. Yeah! I'm gonna to go set That was wild. We all could of I'd rather people go out on their own terms. Yeah, instead of people 31 sets of twins remain, but we're about By the end of it, we will be Oh, God. Randomly over the next few hours, the lights in this room And when that happens, the first pair is safe and moves on. But anyone else who and wasn't first We're doing this ten times, which round you press the button. Ideally, all 30 of you don't try Because the more people who attempt We're going to go second, and we What are you We're going on one baby! I think most people I have a pretty What's the strategy here? We're going for We're gonna like announce it to everyone. If you don't want to get But not everyone was I will say you're very far away Going first is never the answer. Okay. All right everybody, the Good luck The moment it Dude, I'm telling you right As soon as that - Should I yell Red? It could literally Oh, God, I'm so Oh my gosh. That was the first one. Yeah baby! Oh my God. It looks like four pairs of Let's see who tapped the button first, and I don't usually hold hands like I know we don't So you guys, either - Or we won. Yes You pressed it? Yeah man! A bunch of other people pressed it, we We made it through four challenges. Whatever happens, we Reveal the results Oh my God. But before the twins We got this in the bag We decided to surprise The alarm went off Did it? Yes, its red. And once again, only four You did it? Yeah, I did it so fast. Reveal the result and by The Cliffords won round two. Let's get it! No! Dang! I'm so proud of y'all. Now we're watching Wish us luck! If you did not win, Bye! See ya guys. Two sets of twins have How many of you are You think we go here? Yeah. Maybe you just wait. Stop looking away. Maybe on the 10th press, Focus! His finger are far You keep looking away. I Alright! I don't know if I got that. I did it quick, I don't For round three, three pairs Before we reveal the result, we're bringing We need to cheer you guys - Feastables! - We love Feastables! Oh, duh! The boys are currently handing AKA the best chocolate on the planet. Feastables baby! And I'm excited to announce we just launched our brand new Cookies and creme? It's my favorite. Cookies and creme! Cookies and creme, please! You want another one? Yeah! You want another one? Yeah! You want another? I'm probably biased, but this is literally the best Feastables Cookies and creme We also launched our brand because this year Feastables is going to give If you don't hand out clearly you hate And now for the results of round three, which to be honest, is pretty ironic, Oh my. I'm not going to Sixteen more of you to go and there's only seven slots. Technically, your odds have improved by but there's still Can you tell people You got this. You wanna just do it? So scared. I don't I felt really good about that. Round four's winner Let's go! I thought we had it. Sorry it didn't work out. No distractions. You got this dude. Round five is Leiva. You guys The Narvaez twins! The Morris twins! Seven sets of twins remain, I'm getting down Lock in. It's gonna Is Fischer doing it? Don't talk. Yes. It's just us and Fischer. Just Who? It's the ones up there. Badgett's have their Who? The boys? Yeah. You have two other competitors. Should I go ahead for it? Yeah, get ready. Alright, they're Are the ones at Stop asking No! No! I did, I did it already. I was quick. You did it fast. And the winner of round eight is the Badgett twins. and after that, round nine's And round ten was And that concludes this challenge. Congratulations to Yeah! Still top 10 baby. Top 10 baby, lets go! Make sure you sleep well one pair of you is winning I'll see you then. We did it together. That's what we're taking home. We're locked in. Tomorrow, I don't We're so psyched. Hey goodnight. Goodnight. Goodnight. Goodnight top ten. Sleep well. Good morning everybody. For this next challenge, we will be dwindling you down Each pair of twins will be in a comically large game of We got this challenge And to make it even the twin that is the That changes things And the other one will have I'm not worried about it. We're going to beat whoever. Since you won the first Simone Biles We're going to let you pick who you We don't go bowling a You guys good bowlers? Not really. I suck. Rosenbergs, They got glasses. They're We just got to give it our all. And while they're strategizing, I want Lunchly, which pairs Feastables and Prime together Lunchly comes in Fiesta Nachos, Turkey And inside each box is a miniature Let's go see what the twins Oh. We got pizza, turkey, nachos. - I'll get the pizza. And that is real cheese. Oh, these are fire. Yummy. Delicious. - You guys hungry? Each meal comes with a tiny Feastables That might be some of the and that's saying something And Lunchly is only around $5. I can't wait to see what you guys Am I the bowler or I don't care, I'll do it. You can step out. Promise? Yes, I promise you will not be How does it feel to This is so weird. So this is your bowling lane and now you Bro, this is crazy. Who you face is up to you. Pick us. Just pick us. You won't. I'm not picking you. - Sorry. No. You gotta remember, So it's not all about strength. Okay, we're going to Let's go. Whichever pair of twins knocks down the The other pair will be eliminated. Okay, ready? Three. Two. One. Go! Good, good, good, Wow. Oh my gosh. That's really bad. Okay. What do you want me to do? Not that much force Netiher one of us put Blindfold up. Yes. Just like that. - Two. One. Go. I don't even know. I am The Hershey's twins knocked out 48 pins They are 11 behind with one bowl remaining. Get mad. Are you mad? Yes. Act like it. $250,000 on the line. Let's see if they clutch up. Three. Two. One. Go! - Great job. Great job. I actually have no Oh my god. The Hershey's That might have been the That hurt. The Hershey twins The Sansone twins knocked Yeah! Oh my gosh. Who do you want to go next? Pick us, pick us. We're going to pick Alright, you two can Thank you. Who do you think you I think those two kids up there. Alright, we'll pick them. Narvaez twins, I'm Godspeed. Godspeed. Twins, are you ready? Yes. Yep. Three. Two. One. Go! Let's go. I will take it. Alright, blindfold up. Go. They're off. Oh, that might have Y'all chose us. Y'all chose us. Man, that's a lot $250,000 on the line. Get your twins in position. Three. Two, one. Go! The last bowls. Oh my gosh. No! 89 pins knocked down, to 74, sorry gentleman. GG's boys. Who do you want to go next? These guys. Knowing that only five pairs they all chose their I think we're going to Oh my gosh. The blindfolds are on. Go! Right down the middle. Oh. I'm so sorry. Alright, who's next? - Leiva's. All right. The Clifford's. You can exit your cube. Three. Two. One. Go! It was becoming clear who is I used to be in a league. I'm friends with a lot of Bowling is a strength. Do you guys think I'm not too worried. And the final two sets Let's see which Alright gentlemen, $250,000 on the line. I'm so glad we didn't have Three. Two. One. Go! Oh, my gosh. Dude, those are Great bowl. Okay, okay. Those are our best ones yet. You can definitely tell It is neck and neck. This had to be the match up. Oh, yeah. Let's see if that changes. Three two. One Go! Oh, the ricochet. Woah, I don't know. Dude, they barely The last bowl of the challenge, one of these twins and one's going to top five. Three. Two. One. Go! Oh my gosh. They might have made a comeback. That was a good ball though. That's I think that's good enough. Oh my gosh. Wow. This is going And the final tally is 82 to 86. Yes! Yes! Yes! Oh my goodness. Congrats on making it to the Gotta do what Top five baby. The Clifford twins. Let's go! The Derting twins. We're freaking out. The Sansone twins. And the Morris twins. The bowling champ right here. Now we'll be going head to for this quarter of $1 million. Good luck to everybody. You ready for the - Yeah. A little bit of nerves, but I mean Oh, we're stoked. So if you won, what are you We're going to go to Japan. Japan and school. We talked about investing. Buy my parents a new house. Really? Probably not. Going to put it like all in our brand famous rockstars. - Oh, really? My parents. I mean, they and they're trying it would mean the world and then I'll probably - Good luck in this next challenge. Thank you. I appreciate it. - Thank you! I appreciate it, Jimmy. At the start of this challenge, and now we're down to five. Congrats on making it this far. But up to this point we've still not So for the grand finale, you may The final challenge will This is terrifying. I'm excited for any Bring out the podiums. - Oh my God. This is so scary. If you've seen our this probably At the beginning of each round, Meanwhile, I will be Now the left side of you Which briefcase do you want? Can I just pick it up? Yeah, just pick it up. Put it on your podium. Four of these while one of them holds the check for All five of them have now and only they The players without briefcases, will cast a vote to eliminate The contestants with the most votes and if their case is But if their case has a You'll never believe this, but that pair of If twin telepathy was a thing, Throw up a ten minute timer. Hey Morris at the I might. He's shaking a little. I don't think he has it. Do you think you have a good understanding I think so. Does anyone want to admit they have the Oh, so you're I have it. That's bold. That's some I don't know, why would he would Yeah. That's so sus. Who are you voting for? I don't know. Toss me the vote. How well can you read your Vote for me. Dude, stop. Just stop talking 45 seconds. I think we should vote him out I don't think he has it What if they do have it? You're going to have I'm just writing who Five, four, three, two, one. Alright, Karl, gather their votes. Feel good about this? I don't know. The first vote was for Clifford. The second vote was Morris. The third vote was Sansone. Oh, we have one vote for The fourth vote was for Beatty. The fifth and final is Beatty, which means they received two Oh my God. No way dude. I have it, yeah. No! It's empty! Wait, I voted for him. You voted for your own brother. The Beatty twin with the briefcase That is until his own brother Could've just kept Don't worry though boys, - Appreciate you man. Bye guys. With that, I need all of and we're going to Now, the opposite side will be Joe watch people's body Yeah. Would you like briefcase Three. Alright, third briefcase. Oh. Give me two. I'll put it on your podium. One. Here you go. Morris, that Now, only the people with the Look at what's Only they know what's in there. Alright, I need all of You may take Start the ten minute timer. Do you have it? I might have it. Do you have it? I don't have the money now. What about y'all down there? Don't have it. So nobody here has it. That's just factually not true. Somebody has it. I don't think the I agree with you. I feel like you're all Well duh. I think the Morrises have it and I already I think Clifford's If you're making a decision now, That's what you think, bro. I'm voting for Morris. I think Morris has the money. I'm telling you, they I'm sorry. I love you all. Three. Two. One. Time is up. Oh my God. Oh my gosh. The first vote is for Morris. The second vote is also for Morris. I'm so nervous. Did you listen to me? The third vote is for Derting. If Derting and gets If not, the Morris twins will The final vote is Derting. We have a tie. You guys have three The four of you recast votes either Wait. So who should I vote for? He looks so stressed. Is he fake stressing? The Morrises have the money. Vote Derting Don't put my name down. You see, like they're trying that's what I'm saying Crystal, what do you think? I don't know. Ten seconds. If you want to make the top Trust me. Trust me, -Four. Three. Trust me, bro, trust me. One. Hands down. I hate to do it bro. Let's tally these votes. Morris or Derting one of Our first vote is for Derting. Our second vote is also for Derting. The third vote is for Derting. The fourth vote, which is Four? All four of them voted Bro. Reveal what is Fourth place, Told you. Oh my God. You're also going - That's awesome! And now that all of you at for this next round, we're not even You want one, two or three? I'll do two. I'll do one. Karl give Morris the last one. The three of you with Look inside your briefcase. Alright, close them. You guys may take off your Start the timer. I think I have an And who's that? Wait, you think they have it? Again. What if you had it, though? She looks nervous. That's all. I mean I've been nervous. I'm telling you, So then what? Do you Hey, you saying they have the money means Do you have the money? Do you want to come look? John. YOU DON'T HAVE IT? $250,000 on the line. You got 47 seconds. One of you is Okay. Who do you think? I feel like Clifford Clifford, you guys have You make up your I've got the suitcase, but I can't 15 seconds. I'd start writing. Give me something. I know what I'm doing. Okay. She knows Do you have it in your I might have it in my suitcase. He's lying. How am I lying? I don't know, I don't Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Pens down. The first vote is for Morris. The second vote... is also Morris. We don't even need to Bring the table on over. Good luck guys. All right, Morrises, it all You do not know Alright, you want to show him? If it's empty. They lose. And the game continues But if it has Ah, you got it! Yes, yes, yes. Good job, bro. I'm gonna cry. It's okay. What are you guys going It's going to our family. I mean, they Pull it apart. That is your $125,000 Dude. Congrats. And, dude, I can't believe it.