What's up guys! We're here we're going to show you our top things Madrid is the vibrant capital of Spain, located history, and culture, Madrid has elegant parks, and culinary we highlight 12 of the best things to do in we'll also share three travel tips that will We are Zac and Ine. We make helpful videos about destinations around the world so you The beating heart of Madrid is Plaza Mayor, brimming with history in the city center. This bull fights, and even executions. Today, inviting you to grab a coffee or drink while it's also the perfect starting point to Madrid's central neighborhoods offer trendy cafes and vintage shops line the bars and a buzzing nightlife. Lavapies pot of Middle Eastern and African flavors. is an interesting area where you can find Madrid's inclusive heart. Each barrio promises A stone's throw from Plaza Mayor, the popular within a stunning century-old building. Over 30 food stalls showcase Spain's finest to delectable tapas, sweets, and local wines. We because prices are more inflated There are a lot of cheaper and less like uh, Tirso de Molina behind me you can check out our blog post and we'll leave a Dominating Madrid's skyline, the Almudena historic center. Its construction spanned different architectural styles. Marvel at and magnificent neoclassical facade. but there is an admission fee to visit the There are over 40 museums in the city, and interactive experiences. We explored the art masterpieces by Velazquez and other lesser-known Museum of Romanticism, which houses and decorative arts from the 19th century. with some other great museum options in Madrid While Madrid will easily keep you busy for a and bustle at least once. We went on a day tour south of Madrid. Also called the &quot;City of Three Muslim, and Jewish remnants. Wander its the architecture. One of the most impressive which is a must-visit. But our favorite thing the various miradors. We left a link to the There are also two other beautiful are worth a visit. These are the cities of Segovia and Avila. While Avila boasts beautiful ancient Another way to escape the fast Casa de Campo, a sprawling green oasis you can find some cute cafes and restaurants with very peaceful atmosphere. But besides relaxing, from renting a kayak on the lake to pedaling There's a lot of hidden so we highly recommend exploring the different Madrid's historic center offers an interesting mix Wander its cobbled streets lined with grand monuments of the city. In this area, you can find la Villa, the Egyptian Temple of Debod, the grand you truly want to dive into the history of the Madrid's magic unfolds beneath you from are a number of sky-high bars that offer roofs and iconic landmarks. At the you get unparalleled views of the city. But is a magnet for tourists. Our favorite rooftop which offers a more relaxed atmosphere and Madrid's most popular attraction is the Royal the city center. This majestic baroque Palace is Europe, with over 3,000 rooms. And while the used for state ceremonies. Inside, you can find tapestries, and glittering chandeliers. In total, each uniquely decorated. Make sure to book your Madrid is a foodie paradise. Beyond iconic tapas Michelin star restaurants pushing culinary specialties. The best way to explore its local the Tipsy Tapas Tour, where we visited four of shared dishes paired with an assortment de Verano. Our guide also offered insights into well as local dishes. This was the best food and you can find a link to book the same Madrid's most beautiful Park is El Retiro, an It's packed with things to see and do, like the and the Rose Garden. Stroll along its treelined relax by the decorative fountains, or simply if you can as the park can get very busy As we promised at the beginning of the for Madrid. First, we recommend exploring main attractions are near each other. For efficient, and affordable. Purchase a travel Stretch your travel budget in Madrid by Many world-class museums like the Prado or evenings or afternoons. Research free entry individual websites. Finally, while central areas they do come with a hefty price tag. Consider good metro connections if you're traveling on a which seems quite far away. But in fact, it the city center. We added a few accommotion If you're planning your Spain trip, we recommend travel planner. Find a discount code in the links in the description that will help you with map so you can get to each place that we