Now I'm sure you've already heard about fair in Miami. And about the person who ate the banana. And the multitudes who've created their You might already have a firm opinion about But I'd like to ask you to clear away for this thing that's happened, and consider What do we think of this $150,000 banana? Let's get the facts in front of us. (And yes, there are still facts.) This real banana, attached to the wall with is titled Comedian, and it the brainchild It was presented in his gallery's booth an art fair that's been held annually in Galleries from around the world apply to have their wares within the Miami Beach Convention Then, for a handful of days in early December, on the fair and the many others shows, events, Collectors come to buy art, of course, but $50--can come just to look at a ton of art phenomenon. This is all to say that Comedian was just a loud and crowded convention center filled rather huge. But it didn't take long after the doors and also buyers. Galerie Perrotin was offering three editions Two of those sold very quickly, and then the third, which also sold. There were an additional two "artist proofs" by the end of the fair. Now "artist proofs" are generally the that an artist hangs on to for their own collection, important. They're often regarded as special and can though, yes, they are technically the exact And this is very funny in the case of Comedian The buyers did not purchase actual bananas They paid 120 or 150,000 dollars for an idea. All they're getting is a certificate of artwork by Maurizio Cattelan, and instructions Can anyone who wants to buy a banana from in the exact same way? YES. But only people with the certificate are technically as often as needed with a fresh banana and The museums that own the certificate are the duct taped to a wall this way, and put a label I'm guessing they'll have the right to too, who will likely be clamoring to get in This may sound absurd, but there are many of conceptual art. It's what allows museums and individuals who issued certificates of authenticity with instructions for how they should be installed. You didn't need LeWitt to paint the walls he's not. If you move or want to show the wall drawing destroy the old wall drawing, and have it But you've got to have that certificate. This is what is simultaneously so maddening He has selected one of the most common and will and clout and roguish ingenuity, has All artists perform a type of alchemy when will pay money for. But Comedian sets this reality into high relief, the context of a sceney art fair, calling narrow sliver of the privileged population But it's not actually nothing that the buyers They now own a valuable artwork by Maurizio The same Cattelan who has been long been pulling and galleries around the world. He made a solid gold fully-functional toilet available for use in a bathroom at the Guggenheim That is, until it was stolen when on loan But for Cattelan, nothing is sacred. When viewed in the context of his sculpture or his miniature figure of Hitler kneeling subject matter, even with its obvious phallic But Comedian is firmly in the Cattelan tradition and hate, and hold dear. It pokes fun at our desire for art to be unique, And for art buyers and sellers, it laughs and the perception of scarcity. Cattalan has a track record for involving In 1995, he designed a costume for his dealer of the show. And in 1999, he duct taped gallerist Massimo opening. So the duct tape is an art world in-joke, to Cattelan's wider body of work. Oh and the guy really likes to hang things, For his 2011 retrospective at the Guggenheim, ceiling of the rotunda instead of putting Comedian also has plenty of ties to art history, Marcel Duchamp was the famed progenitor of a non-art object into a gallery and call it part of that tradition. And very many artists have put bananas and did in 1967 for his Velvet Underground &amp; Nico The banana has appeared frequently in works art, like Natalia LL's 1970s Consumer Art And art historian Linda Nochlin's 1972 play tray apples. The Guerrilla Girls have put the banana to and plenty of other artists have, too. All of these things may or may not have been for this work, but it doesn't matter. They are all things that makes Comedian a Cattelan for a collector to own. They can of course show it off at dinner parties, having to always make sure to have bananas If that's your idea of fun. They can also loan it out to museums for shows, a considerable profit. That is until the art bubble bursts. But for the museums who've purchased it, Who wouldn't want to come take a selfie likely going to confront the same challenges Lines formed quickly of people wanting to went relatively smoothly until one fair-goer, banana from the wall and eat it, explaining "Hungry Artist." While it did get a lot of media coverage, The gallery had another banana, and Comedian Because Datuna didn't eat the artwork. To do that, he would have had to have eaten Which is a performance I would actually really But the gallery did decide to take the work the crowds and risk to the safety of other And let's talk about the gallery for a minute, this. Their instagram posts explain Comedian as "a wry commentary on society, power, and worth and what kind of objects we value." Which is all fine and good and you can accept their post about taking the work down. They say: 'Comedian,' with its simple reflection of ourselves. We would like to warmly thank all those who as well as to our colleagues. We sincerely apologize to all the visitors participate in 'Comedian.'" Yes, that's right. Participate in. Because the artwork isn't just the banana, really. It's all of us. It's those who flocked to see it, our response As Teddy L Wang astutely commented to our is the art." And the outrage around the art of course makes famous, which these days is a proxy for value. "Hungry Artist" may have been intended done is bolster the value of Comedian. Several of you asked me to not make a video Us talking about it gives this work its power, For everyone who loves art or spends a lot creative endeavors, both Comedian and Datuna's That the only art that filters out into wider sales or this, does devalue the good work And it adds fuel to the already-raging fires anything art-related is a con game. Some of it is a con game, but not all of it. But whether or not you like Comedian or think today. One of the great things art can do is point all the other moments. And life for many of us is confounding and I by outrageous I mean filled with outrage, And it's rarely about the real outrage, of wealth, but about... bananas. This pool of images we're swimming in, and left us even more unsure than we've ever It shouldn't shock us that a mere idea can What after all is intellectual property? What is &quot;influence&quot; and &quot;views&quot; and &quot;likes,&quot; capital captial. Nothing is sacred, everything is a commodity, My problem with Comedian is not that it's our superficiality in a superficial way. It demonstrates what is deeply wrong with Which is to say: It might not be the art we is the art we deserve.