On March 11th, 2020, Moon Studios released Xbox One. Will of the Wisps is the follow five years earlier on March 11th, 2015. And game in its own right, Moon Studios pushed Wisps. Moon Studios grew from a team of about fifteen on the second Ori game. Since their inception of its employees to work remotely from their This flexibility lets them hire talent from from companies like Pixar, Disney and Blizzard characters. Chris McEntee, who worked on the work on level design. Moon Studios even hired a popular Metroid 2 fangame. Well, popular This larger crew helped make Ori and the Will predecessor, with more characters, more features, as well as an entirely new combat system. of enemies with a large arsenal of weapons, for the player to test their skills against. heaped praise all over Will of the Wisps, Studios had crafted a masterpiece. And that else from this video, let it be that Ori and impressive Metroidvanias ever made. But, there was another thing people were saying before the game even released. After the Ori was revealed at E3 2018, one of the lead game gave an interview with the Daily Star, explaining Metroidvania. This involved studying and researching Blind Forest. Mahler mentioned by name two Verge and Hollow Knight. This interview was shared on ResetEra, an games. The thread contained a variety of opinions both Ori and the Blind Forest and Hollow Knight. Mahler, a regular on internet forums such as well, responding to comments and questions the name "Jeffrey Guang" expressed concern too much from Hollow Knight. I hope Moon Studio doesn't lose sight on what focusing too much on replayability. ...Please don't be a Hollow Knight clone, Thomas Mahler responded to this post as well, were nothing to worry about: ...don't worry about us copying others too our team, but I don't think people will the likes. And well... Then the game came out. Experience the new look and feel of the Ori glance at Hollow Knight and said "I guess In fact Ori and the Will of the Wisps takes of the past few years. That's right, I'm The first game had one original thought in your save points which was slightly wobbly to the curb in favor of making a game more If you haven't played these games, to be might piss people off, but the base of it Let's start by going over all the Hollow Moon Studios for doing. That's a good model If I failed, I knew it was because of my own game. Oh yeah! I mentioned that Will of the Wisps not only to Hollow Knight's charms. Will of the Wisps introduces a system that Hollow Knight. So it's got a similar badge system... I think people have made this comparison, badge system. A little bit similar. Very similar. Speaking of exploration, there's a map maker you're looking for another bit of Hollow Knight And there's an NPC hidden around the world It's even got the one mapmaker dude you keep map for the current area. But that's not the only Hollow Knight influence. healing skill. Moon Studios must have looked at Hollow Knight's can we top that?" Well they didn't, but Because Hollow Knight was popular and did the giant money machine, all praise its benevolent So it's pretty clear the team enjoyed Hollow The comparisons to Hollow Knight came immediately, that they could see the clear inspirations name "Mindsale" even created a thread Pastiche or plagiarist?". Thomas Mahler Knight wasn't really the inspiration for Final Fantasy VII, Dark Souls and The Legend to Mahler's posts were mixed, with a number calling him a liar and a salty manbaby. In gaming forum, the entire thread turned into heated that the thread was locked by a moderator A few months later, the other lead developer the similarities during a Reddit AMA. Korol Knight comparisons, a lot of the systems in Knight already existed in early prototypes So what exactly is going on here? Mahler has Hollow Knight and that the game inspired them. times, by fans and reviewers all over the of Moon Studios say that Hollow Knight wasn't of the Wisps. What's the cause of this discrepancy? to Hollow Knight? Before we dive into the comparisons surrounding issue that needs to be discussed. It seems ideas in gaming comes up, a lot of people and "clone". And discussions immediately time to talk about what inspiration and imitation The question of what constitutes a rip-off mentioned earlier is a good testament to that. up many times before. In fact, the issue of by some of the greatest minds of this generation. Alright, I gotta set the record straight. gonna call stuff a rip-off, let's call it it off, created Minecraft. This is Keemstar. Most well known for his DramaAlert, Keemstar is a very polarizing the big YouTube star he is today, his first for the 2011 Xbox Live Arcade game, FortressCraft. you might think it's just a rip-off of another Minecraft. But let's take a closer look, makes people perceive a game as a rip-off. Here's Keemstar explaining the game in an So just tell us exactly what is FortressCraft? FortressCraft is a genre that was developed doesn't have a name. A game was the inspiration but it's only on the PC. In the same genre that, we've developed the game FortressCraft, different at the same time. Keemstar's first point here is that Minecraft but itself took ideas from another game. This Markus Persson, or Notch, was heavily inspired creating Minecraft. Keemstar's point was Adam Sawkins. According to Sawkins in an Ars FortressCraft and Minecraft are simply part to. Sawkins, who had previously worked on compared this to the racing game genre, saying: All racing games have cars, tracks, tarmac, and chevrons. To remove any of those things from maybe trees. If I were to remove voxel generation, or--as one YouTube comment accused I no longer have a 'Minecraft clone.' I also Notch didn't see it that way. In that same on games like FortressCraft and Terraria: Both FortressCraft and Terraria appear to inspired by many other games, including Infiniminer, I do not believe you can achieve something to emulate something successful. It becomes any inspiration when it's painfully clear is an obvious attempt to just take something I still think it's important that people are it's hardly graceful. Accusations like this haunted Keemstar and Keemstar tried his best to dispel these criticisms... Don't fucking talk shit about me and my fucking your whole goddamn crew... But Public Relations wasn't really Keemstar's to Notch's comments with an open letter that separated it from Minecraft such as more rayguns... trampolines. Sawkins also said: FortressCraft is 'basically Minecraft' Infiniminer'. It's just that Minecraft have an enormous list of plans and ideas I on. It's undeniable that both Minecraft and look at the video description for the very Sawkins wrote in the description: Minecraft clone, running on the Xbox... If you look at the first Minecraft video Notch This is a very early test of an Infiniminer So what is the actual difference here? Why while FortressCraft gets flogged and crucified? mechanics not found in Infiniminer. Infiniminer game. Notch took those elements and added Infiniminer and create something new. FortressCraft mode, with a few game modes like tag thrown games, it's hard to believe that FortressCraft as Minecraft innovated on Infiniminer. Sawkins' hasn't been around as long as Minecraft, for the game hadn't been added yet, stating FortressCraft is a novel with chapters unwritten. But this point leads into the bigger reason a rip-off. For whatever new ideas and mechanics sandbox genre, it was clearly overshadowed and unpolished, banking its success entirely It seems like FortressCraft's actual main except unlike Minecraft, it was on the Xbox 2011, which was like a million years ago. known to man yet. There were a lot of young and there were YouTubers like Keemstar who identity of playing Xbox Live and being a the perfect game for people like Keemstar audience. Just watch the official FortressCraft This ain't about me. This is about the console I am not a PC gamer. I have not been a PC That is a reality. That's the way it is. But when I looked into it, I found out it's waiting as long as everybody else for this up till 12 when I heard that it was supposed It's also clear that they knew people were deflect as much as possible. Even the game's isn't ripping off Minecraft. Getting kinda worked up over FortressCraft into it or anything, but I think Minecraft In the end, FortressCraft performed incredibly clear that the game did well financially. a bit more candidly about his real thoughts quality, saying in 2020: That was my first big, big break. Not a good It was a Minecraft clone but it was the only kids are gonna buy it. Brilliant, brilliant move. As for Sawkins, he actually continued development FortressCraft Evolved, which blended the standard in logistics and tower defense mechanics to Sawkins was honest when he said he had a lot Minecraft. As for FortressCraft: Chapter 1, all that innovative or unique, and it will game clones created to cash in on what was the original FortressCraft on Steam to celebrate check it out if you want, if you have a PC So what can we take away from that little games all of the time. It's perfectly natural of one of the greatest video games ever made. same genre are bound to have similarities. are all in first person. Roguelike are all least something unique and different from might be called a rip-off. Finally, the single biggest part to what makes rushed, poorly made, and is released shortly same genre. Even if a lot of the comparisons in said genre. This is especially true when This is why early FPS games were called Doom-clones called GTA-clones. But what if the genre is old? Minecraft and when they first came out, so what about the How does that impact our ability to talk about Will of the Wisps and Hollow Knight are both genre as a whole. The word "Metroidvania" is a portmanteau which themselves are portmanteaus of the words "Transylvania". And somehow this portmanteau now describes an entire genre of 2D action-adventure power up based progression systems. It's safe to say that Metroid, released proper "Metroidvania" games. Metroid featured player primarily progressed through by collecting high jump and missiles. This set it apart time like Zelda 2 and Castlevania 2, which cryptic puzzles. Other games such as Blaster Master and Wonder it wasn't until Super Metroid released in Super Metroid set the stage for what a modern giant map and ability upgrades. Three years of the Night. The previous Castlevania games Castlevania 2 experimenting a bit with an games were also hard as balls. According to the assistant director for Symphony keep the length of previous Castlevania games they looked to a different game as inspiration. from 2014. Well, a translator explains: We really wanted to extend the life of the heads was Legend of Zelda, an exploration team, including myself, were huge fans of similar. So now you know, the origin of inspiration I have the utmost respect for that game, and So as it turns out, Symphony of the Night by trying to make a side-scroller that progressed Symphony of the Night and the games that followed saw similarities to Metroid. People started "Metroidvanias" with the earliest instance all the way back to the pre-civilized world And thus the grandparents of the genre were co-opted to mean any game that follows the games. And... There's a lot of debate about use, with people suggesting alternatives like non-linear 2D action platformers, action adventure non-closed-world side-scrollers, and open-world Regardless of if you like the term or not, do well is demonstrate how much these games at the same time, they will mix other games NES classics such as Contra, Bionic Commando, inspired by another indie game, Castle Crashers, elements. Ori and the Blind Forest mixed the found in Super Meat Boy. Want to play a Metroidvania Maybe a Metroid pinball game? There's Yoku's Actually, I don't think any of those exist. And then, of course, there's Hollow Knight. see in Hollow Knight comes from the minds the Metroid and Castlevania games, Hollow school NES and Super Nintendo games like Mega We've stolen a lot of ideas. But there was one game in particular that Hollow Knight is a metroidvania souls-like This is more of a metroidvania souls-like. Hollow Knight takes a lot of cues from the It's really the Dark Souls of games that without actually being Dark Souls... Dark Souls... Dark Souls... Dark Souls... Mario... Hollow Knight is pretty much just Dark Souls. Of course, there was a certain craze back Souls. But the comparisons to Hollow Knight Cuphead. After all, a lot of people seem to at least in some vague sense. The original Dark Souls game is also a Metroidvania Dark Souls, itself a cousin of the Metroidvania... And I love Symphony of the Night, but no non-2D I'd argue since Metroid Prime, and then I to happily halberd hellspawn. This just shows how vague and malleable terms are to a lot of people. It's this vague Is trying to find the bathroom in a crowded souls-like" experience? Team Cherry has of their main inspirations, but they do acknowledge Maybe a bit of Dark Souls in there as well. When pressed, they usually downplay the comparisons Hollow Knight feels similar to Dark Souls games. You have a new generation of people who haven't those early games. So they don't have the it's much easier to say &quot;like Souls&quot; as a all of those qualities of the unknown, and to access new areas. Although they do admit that the corpse running they did in Hollow Knight. They've also a loose inspiration for Hollow Knight's When you hit an enemy in Bloodborne, you regain with our soul system which is just that you use to heal at your own rate. However, there was another comparison some A game that appears to have had no influence Again, Hollow Knight's cartoony, slightly The atmosphere created in this Ori and the The comparisons to Ori were not quite as prevalent happened enough to warrant a comment from When you're coming out as an unknown developer Everyone who saw this game, or I'm not going a lot of sentiment which was "Oh, it looks played. But it looks fantastic and apparently sure we'll be able to get some time once There's a sequel soon so we'll just wait We'll wait till the sequel and buy a bundle So even before Ori and the Will of the Wisps Knight was being compared to Ori and the Blind the claims surrounding Will of the Wisps been to be made that Will of the Wisps shares more game did with Blind Forest. But I think another Hollow Knight fanbase is much bigger than subreddit and Discord server are both over That's not to say that Hollow Knight is I think it contributes to why so many more Knight and other games. And I'm not just In December of 2019, Nintendo showed off the game was developed by a Japanese company called who even helped with the development of another of the Night: Koji Igarasha's spiritual The immediate reaction to Gleamlight's trailer Knight. The game's publisher, D3, addressed Gleamlight is still in development and it's aware of Hollow Knight but the game has nothing Very few seemed to actually believe this statement. Stuart Gipp said the following: Gleamlight's developers have claimed that They're right. If it was a rip-off, then it'd flair. The creativity, the baseline of enjoyable missing. It's not a rip-off of Hollow Knight, So what exactly is it about Gleamlight that FortressCraft, the game looks very rushed recently after Hollow Knight's huge success. similarities. They are both platformers with They both feature a melee combat system where sword swipe. And some of the areas bear a but is any of this really all that unique? With FortressCraft it was a lot easier to that looked like Minecraft in terms of game in common with Hollow Knight are not very moody atmosphere is not particularly original, Tim-Burton-like. It brings to mind &quot;The Nightmare Before Christmas&quot; It's a little bit &quot;Tim Burton&quot;. There's definitely going to be a connection It's got that like "Tim Burton", or And remember how people compared Hollow Knight out? A lot of that was probably due to the metroidvanias featuring small-sized protagonists. As for combat, melee combat in a Metroidvania games have primarily used melee combat as somewhat from the side scrolling combat of is really old. As for areas... Well forests in real life to say that's a rip off. And there are purple crystals. So that's not really that unique come on, have people not been playing 1.17? On top of all of this, Gleamlight is barely but Gleamlight doesn't really emphasize each room linearly, and there's no map at it really is the bare minimum. All that being said, it's certainly possible in on Hollow Knight's popularity. But if had no idea what it was that made Hollow Knight less to do with developer intentions and more games. One of Hollow Knight's first exposures to 19th, a friend of the dev team and the voice on Reddit, linking to the Ferocious Foes trailer upvotes, and hundreds of comments came flooding were comparing Hollow Knight to other games. of the Night. Ori and the Blind Forest. Dust of Light. Mario. Uhh... Bleach. How many of these games did Team Cherry actually see a new video game, our brains immediately that resemble it, to help us get an idea of recognition machines, seeing things even if online in the last year should know this painfully new games to not be compared to old ones. Gleamlight was dropped into the limelight I can tell you, a large chunk of the Hollow in the futile hope that there might be even So when Gleamlight popped up, and shared a the comparisons happened immediately. Now those comments on Hollow Knight from 2015 people calling Hollow Knight a rip-off, but that was probably because Hollow Knight looked well... I'm gonna have to say something at the Japanese company DICO watching this trailer looked really shitty. Like the game So when a whole bunch of Hollow Knight fans it was inevitable that everyone would start played Gleamlight, it doesn't seem much still a bad game. I got every achievement it's a bad game. But I think that has more and having very little experience with game in on Hollow Knight's success. Of course, that's not to say that Hollow There have been quite a few games to pop up Curse of the Sea Rats, Ender Lilies, Unbound: claim Hollow Knight as an inspiration in some particular, Crowsworn, ended up getting some When they posted their pre-Kickstarter trailer calling the game a rip-off of Hollow Knight. Once the game was brought to the attention due to me tweeting about it over on my twitter a lot more positive. Since then, Team Cherry's marketing director, In an interview with the The Indie Gamer, has no issues with Crowsworn: Look, this game looks cool. We don't mind want to do that too". Leth also pointed out how it just makes sense Unity game engine would make games that look There's only so much you can do with Unity and Ari were very clever with how they developed and it's also very good. So if you depart something bad. And when Crowsworn went live on Kickstarter, hours. So the game clearly has value to a on their Kickstarter saying their game looks Now to be fair, I understand why some people Crowsworn. Crowsworn does wear its Hollow what we have seen of Crowsworn, it appears are putting work into making their game stand reference the Donkey Kong Country games as basically barrel cannons. They've American, bit with the inclusion of guns, which I thought Knight, to be honest. In reality the vast majority of the games inspiration from Metroid and Castlevania, games like Super Meat Boy and Dark Souls to controversial and those games are seldom called became extremely popular, resulting in both to Hollow Knight, and a lot of people seeing whether or not that was actually intentional So what makes it okay to draw ideas from Metroid, from Hollow Knight, like Crowsworn does? I copy Metroid and Castlevania because those keep in mind, the gaming industry is very There are now thousands upon thousands of so we are likely going to see iterations of frequently. It took so long for games to take really a thing until Cave Story came out in Well, depending on who you ask. At the end of the day, as long as a game does that inspired it, we really shouldn't be the games it takes from are. And just watching to know if that's the case. Seriously, the looked like Ori after watching the Ferocious different those two games are. Enter Ori and the Will of the Wisps. You know, After the completion of Ori and the Blind Studios was going to make a sequel. The co-founders, exactly onboard with making a sequel, until could improve on Blind Forest's weaker parts, on the original game. If you would see Ori and the Blind Forest could actually become like Super Mario Bros. Sort of like what Super Mario Bros 3 was to We want Ori and the Will of the Wisps to become the original Super Mario Bros. My next guests say this game will be the best Super Mario Brothers. I guess that's a quote. And part of that process of refining the sequel were released since the first game. In terms of the gameplay we really just wanted all the Metroidvanias that also came out after say &quot;How can we even take it a level further Like we saw earlier in this video, Hollow looked at when creating Will of the Wisps. Korol have both denied taking any inspiration of all this back in March 2020, I went on over at twitter.com/mossbag69 claiming that from Hollow Knight, and were now blatantly occurrence for Twitter, but my tweets were the greater context surrounding the situation. I made those tweets. But that was over a year both Ori and the Blind Forest and Ori and Pac-Man 2: The New Adventures a few times development of the Ori games to better understand So, have my thoughts changed? Well, yes, but clear cut answer here. So let me just answer Was Ori and the Will of the Wisps influenced Most likely. Did Ori and the Will of the Wisps directly Probably not. In order to get to the bottom of this, I'm Moon Studios has participated in, as well made on the websites ResetEra and NeoGAF. in gaming forums. And once we dig into his doesn't really like Hollow Knight. Mahler first played Hollow Knight right as After playing the game for a few hours, Mahler Hollow Knight. Mahler criticized the game's to games like Super Metroid, Symphony of the also said he isn't a fan of Hollow Knight's say this next point was criticism, Mahler like Axiom Verge and Hollow Knight don't genre forward, as opposed to the Ori games platforming found in games like Super Meat Mahler's criticisms of Hollow Knight are Knight, it's not a perfect game. There are some people. One of Hollow Knight's biggest pacing. Hollow Knight is a massive game with and far between. As a result, some areas feel moments to keep the player engaged. This can and progression if the hook of exploration out by a few reviewers here on YouTube. And even with every ability it can take a map is absolutely massive. Massive and boring! And the world is fun to explore, but asks usually entail given its sheer size. A building of tension in exploration, story, instead of a climax. I'd call this poor Boooooorriiinnnggg! Even people who praised Hollow Knight as the Toolkit have issues with how long the game I felt finished and satisfied with the game time, and when I discovered online that there the drive to carry on and seek out yet more In terms of combat, Hollow Knight's combat to what is featured in Ori and the Will of the game, when the player doesn't have a into affecting the games pacing as well. Up first is that it takes far too long to This means that there is a long stretch of options during combat compared to the potential as simple as they are right at the beginning, you're close to finished. And it is fair to say that Hollow Knight doesn't of reviewers pointing this out. Although Hollow Knight may have many of the before, it stands above thanks to the strength The mechanical aspects of the game aren't responsive, easy to learn and most of all Hollow Knight maybe doesn't rewrite the book them feel meaningful and very important to I should point out that while Mahler has discussed times, he has still consistently said that he has also constantly said he's happy that Knight have released since Blind Forest. But just didn't do it for him, saying: I get that fans might see similarities between game when I played it, so... However, Mahler has done more than just talk also gone back and forth on whether or not did finish it in a post from shortly before he didn't finish it after everyone started another point he compared the sales figures Forest just came and went while Hollow Knight has expressed a very competitive mindset whenever So it's clear that Mahler has a complicated sake, the only thing Team Cherry has ever heard they are fantastic. Of course, Team Cherry are pretty tight lipped presence, either personally or professionally. Mahler has the opposite problem. He is just even he admits that it lands him in hot water posted a public apology on his Twitter account Sky and Cyberpunk 2077 snake oil salesmen Mahler made some interesting points in his culture in gaming incentivises studios to he probably should have avoided calling specific In his Twitter apology, Mahler said the following: I always really liked the idea of gamers and about games, so that we could all figure out I think this is why Mahler is so open about likes discussing game design with other gamers, And I don't think there's any problem But it's the amalgamation of his attitude make me think his feelings towards the game Mahler has a competitive mindset when it comes Knight's massive success as a challenge Looking at the language used by Mahler and seems like the goal for this game was for "perfect Metroidvania." In an interview the following: A lot of what we're doing with Will of the Metroidvania. We looked at a lot of games Knight, Axiom Verge - and studied them and it to the next level. That's how Ori evolves. game, and we push it further. We take it further. Korol has said this as well: We really want to make sure that absolutely be perfected. And we can see this was the case before Will the goal was to push the platforming found bringing the fluid platforming of Super Meat Meatboy's rotting corpse in the game, in Thomas Mahler explains: We wanted to improve Metroidvanias by really honestly, if you look at your typical Metroidvania. Metroid, yes they do have platforming but level of Mario.... So that's where we wanted to improve things. one of your core aspects, if one of the core around these levels, why wouldn't the levels Mario? Like that should be the case. So that's After the release of Hollow Knight, however, further as well, thus having both the best genre. And to do that, they seemed to compare Then Team Cherry came in and did Hollow Knight right? Or Axiom Verge for example also did And I think that's fine, but in terms of I always like that competition and the challenge how you can follow up when we do this stuff. The combat itself in Blind Forest was much you have games like Hollow Knight coming out and so on which just wasn't the focus for we could do that as well, right?" And we here's what a metroidvania should look like So it's clear that Moon Studios was very the Wisps, and I think part of the whole "perfect "better than Hollow Knight". So does Mahler's Moon Studios' philosophy of perfection prove no, but I think it shows that Hollow Knight made the game. But if we ignore the Hollow Knight stuff for the Metroidvania genre is an interesting approach from what Team Cherry did. William Pellen their game a Metroidvania at all. So when we were making the game, obviously like Metroid and Castlevania, but we weren't or anything like that, you know? It was just sense, what we wanted to make... In another interview, Leth confirms that they Metroidvania: Team Cherry was the same way. They didn't They were calling it &quot;action platformer&quot; or In fact, Team Cherry has even said that Hollow Everytime we say Faxanadu, which is probably everyone just goes. "Ah what?" Faxanadu is another one of those early 2D Super Metroid truly defined the genre. Faxanadu for an NES game and cohesive world design. at a ruined kingdom in despair, with some This is very similar to Hollow Knight's a civilization wrought by an infection. So you have one developer working to push by crafting the best platforming and combat Super Metroid and Symphony of the Night as that isn't really worried about sticking taking inspiration from other old school open Both Hollow Knight and Ori and the Will of ideals and weaknesses that may stem from their quite a bit, mainly in their level design Hollow Knight's level design prioritizes and an insane amount of secret areas to explore. the majority of the content Team Cherry created. look very different from someone else's. In contrast, pretty much every area in the path. Because Moon Studio does this, it allows around what abilities the player has obtained here and there, you will be seeing most of the critical path. In terms of storytelling, Moon Studios uses character animations to convey the plot of more universally recognizable story that doesn't There's still a certain tone to Ori where dialogue as possible, because I want people or something to get as much out of the games this to be a global thing. Hollow Knight, on the other hand, has tens and analyze, if they can even find those words exactly clear on a lot of the details. To going to need to go online and discuss it about it by people who constantly remind you it when YouTubers ask you to like the video of the video. So those are two very different approaches, Whereas Hollow Knight is much more open ended. Knight fandom is so big compared to other one another online to find out about that where the game turns into Super Meat Boy, happening in half the cutscenes of the game. a better Metroidvania? Can we even know what Personally, and I might be a little biased I value most in Metroidvanias. Why is it that Metroidvania genre? It's because Dark Souls like about Metroidvanias: the interconnected movement upgrades in Dark Souls. It's still And I think Team Cherry kinda stumbled into system that's found in games like Castlevania their game, they weren't afraid to strip to create a more freeform experience: The basic outline of the game at the start, a much more rigid kind of traditional "this power up" and you follow that through the working on it, we kept finding interesting so we kinda chipped away at the floor or the a little more freely. While I think Hollow Knight better captures say Hollow Knight is a better Metroidvania own thing within the genre, and they both to even compare them. Oddly enough, Thomas I think Hollow Knight and Ori honestly both see all that much overlap apart from them Mario and Sonic to me - Sure, both are platformers, just glad we're seeing more amazing Metroidvanias So while Mahler does talk a lot about wanting that there is room for variety within that a very complex man, in case you couldn't The whole notion of figuring out what constitutes to me. We would need to set up a rubric and and methods for evaluating those components. some degree. But this system would be worthless interesting and worth playing is that they new. And a lot of times, when people make what makes a perfect Metroidvania, they use and Symphony of the Night. But there's no design choices that worked well in those games the pinball Metroidvania Yoku's Island Express of Mist? While it's certainly possible to compare certain mechanics better, it's important should judge them based on how well they execute comparisons to 20 year old games. Anyway, now that I'm done talking about let's compare these games. Earlier in the video, I mentioned that a lot apparently stole weren't all that original as well, but luckily Moon Studios has provided development than DICO ever did. So let's new addition to Will of the Wisps: combat. If we look back to Ori and the Blind Forest, of that game was the combat. As fun as exploration is, combat is a little Combat isn't one of Ori's strengths. Basically the combat in Blind Forest consisted a homing energy attack until they died. So A big part of Will of the Wisps' reason for from Blind Forest. When we started really working on the game that people gave us. And one of the big things the combat system and made it crazy in terms That's the first big thing about Ori 2 is completely revamp it. Make it absolutely awesome in a Metroidvania before. When people point out the similarities between just point out that the Knight's nail and just pointing out that Will of the Wisps has Wisps probably would have had more refined since combat was the weakest aspect of Blind As it turns out, a prototype version of the during the development of Blind Forest. According We had a working version of sword fighting it work. It was such a big game and we needed Due to Moon Studios' small size and the Forest ended up letting combat take a backseat For the sequel, Moon Studios wanted to create in a Metroidvania before. We saw earlier that Thomas Mahler looked at Cherry did with that game's combat, while Hollow Knight's simplistic combat system. Knight's combat just so they could try and they even reached out to one of the developers combat for Ori. And looking at the final products, are noticeably different. According to Korol and Mahler, the combat Symphony of the Night as opposed to Hollow The Melee stuff is inspired by Symphony of games we looked at when it came to how to Korol also mentioned Dark Souls in another We were almost inspired by games like Dark dances with the enemies... Dark Souls and Symphony of the Night differ wide variety of weapons aside from just a your goddamn fists, it's really up to you. nail. There are still different playstyles be whacking off with this thing from the very In Will of the Wisps, Ori has a variety of a sword, a bow, a giant hammer, a giant spear, of all, a feather. These attacks, and a few allowing the player to change weapons on the Another major difference with Ori's combat the button. In Hollow Knight, you press a very straightforward. Mahler didn't like We really wanted to take it to that level an animation-based combat system.' My idea a super fucking cool ninja. That being said, I think Hollow Knight still be as complex, but the game gets a lot of Wisps is certainly an improvement from Blind or enjoyable to me as the platforming. The YouTube channel Ingeniousclown Gaming the Will of the Wisps. And I pretty much 100% Granted, Ori's combat is significantly more the inspiration can be seen regardless. Hollow combat with, while Ori has a measly six. But keep in mind, I'm definitely biased boss rush mode several times. If I didn't then I'd be an absolute lunatic for doing much time into fighting the bosses in Ori. So did Ori copy Hollow Knight's combat? they seemed to take it as a challenge of sorts Cherry did. But in reality, Moon Studios was it was Blind Forest's biggest stumbling into the game is very different from Hollow So... yes?... but actually no. The healing system is another comparison I've heal either by finding health drops in the Ori whenever it created a save point. In Will face buttons for equipping skills, leaving to this, they decided to replace that feature was turned into one of the equippable skills. On the face of it, expending a resource in is pretty much what Mahler said when people Knight. But it's the way this healing plays feel similar to some people. Healing can now requires Ori to stand still and avoid taking very similar to Hollow Knight. On the other Both Team Cherry and Moon Studios have cited And we know that Moon Studios wanted to replicate with enemies in Dark Souls. Part of that dance enemy attacks to use an Estus Flask to heal. Hollow Knight's focus mechanic took cues as well. So did Ori construct their healing spell to wanted to replicate Hollow Knight's gameplay, Dark Souls, and replicate that? Did Ori copy Or did Ori just copy Dark Souls? It's at where an idea came from or how it migrated about. It's like jumping. Does every game it popularized the jumping mechanic? I think the healing spell change in Will of design philosophy, and might just be an extension possible Hollow Knight influenced them in Souls out of the equation and saying they of details out of the picture. And that goes Ori and Hollow Knight draw from that series, in these games "feels similar" to a lot different. The concept of Metroidvania games using RPG of the Night, which boasted an experience both Moon Studios and Team Cherry also put Ori and the Blind Forest features an ability and perks, such as breathing underwater, better and making attacks more powerful. The tree lot of the later power ups are locked behind this issue: With Ori 1 we kinda had a tree system, so get all the upgrades before it on a certain The shard system introduced in the sequel having to spend resources on abilities you shards depending on what they are struggling similar to Hollow Knight's charm system, in Ori is worth exactly one shard slot, whereas depending on how powerful the charm is. Shards was a planned idea for Hollow Knight's Godmaster Both Moon Studios and Team Cherry cite different looked at the badge system from Paper Mario. be spent to equip badges, with some badges to what we see in Hollow Knight. The developers based their shard system on the Materia system and armor have a certain number of Materia they gain the Materia's power, and the Materia through combat. According to Mahler, the shard system in Ori that, saying: ... at some point in the game we literally shards into - that became too cumbersome, Gennadiy Korol echoed this inspiration, saying: We looked at the materia system from Final you can customize your character and have Korol also mentioned that the shard system long before Team Cherry ever showed off Hollow The ability to level up shards is probably the final implementation of the shard system didn't just rip that system straight out Ori and the Will of the Wisps features a much people have compared this to Hollow Knight's good reason why Ori and the Blind Forest didn't Ori and the Blind Forest had a very unique First the developers would create and rig wasn't actually used in game. Instead the 2D sprites. These 2D sprites were then modified of field effects. Then a whole bunch of ingame the surrounding lighting. This was done for owl Kuro. So when you look at Ori in Blind that has been rendered as a bunch of 2D sprites. want to learn more about how it was done then James Benson. In Hollow Knight, Ari animated each character much it. Moon Studios' involved process for creating just the barebones cast we see in Blind Forest. of the Wisps, the developers were able to with. They also just ended up using 3D models larger cast comes from A Link to the Past, game. And honestly, I think saying Will of virtue of having more NPCs is pretty dumb. and Dark Souls, with people saying Hollow from Dark Souls. However, there is one specific NPC that a two games: Lupo. Lupo is a cartographer who of each area. This function is similar to When people on ResetEra brought up the comparisons that the Castlevania games have merchants the concept. And that's true. In Symphony map from the Master Librarian, among many same as Cornifer and Lupo. The Castlevania concept of a cartographer NPC wasn't present unique. That being said, the idea of a map making a Metroidvania. Honestly, it's weird that of one. And there are memorable cartographer really not that unique of an idea. Regardless, Lupo's implementation is nothing you need to find Cornifer to even get a map. map, which only happens when you sit at a Compass to even see where you are on the map. In Ori, your map still fills in without talking of each area. And the player icon and map way less involved, which makes sense because world, and more about moving through areas hot trophy wife. So that's a pretty big On top of that, there are other parallels traveller who drops random bits of lore and new attacks, similar to the Nailmasters. At different archetypes of characters you can game. And Cornifer and Lupo just happen to Okay, this one is pretty damning. Did Moon the fact that both Will of the Wisps and Hollow has never commented on this blatant rip-off, undeniable that they stole this idea from But it goes a bit deeper than that. As it the concept of putting spiders in games, there truly ahead of its time. Another minor comparison people make is that called "Thorn", which is obviously a rip-off the concept of thorns dealing damage like such as Diablo 2 and FortressCraft. Those are the main notable comparisons I have can see that on an individual level, these have alternative explanations. A combination can explain a great deal of Hollow Knight being said, when you take a step back and together, what elements they chose to include, the final product does end up barring some of these baseline similarities that seems And from looking at the developers' claims genre, it's possible that Moon Studios was in some way, and this lead to a game that even if when put under a microscope, those That's why I prefer to say Hollow Knight terms of combat. I think while the combat the combat in Hollow Knight, the developers for them to compare themselves against. So the platforming of Super Metroid and Castlevania if the final product isn't much like the still visible to a lot of people. I personally think Moon Studios should have Will of the Wisps' development once everyone to acknowledge some influence before launch, I can understand why they did so. Team Cherry They did take some inspiration from Dark Souls, play that down in interviews because a lot Souls weren't intentional on Team Cherry's That being said, Team Cherry never contradicted and they've never compared the sales figures And that does set them apart from Mahler. So to sum this all up, Hollow Knight certainly of Will of the Wisps, but I think people overstate Knight. I think the wise people over at Honest Where they took a glance at Hollow Knight There's a strange irony to all of this. like Hollow Knight. But at the same time he could surpass Hollow Knight in the public genre. But in attempting to do so, he created Knight anyway. Even if Mahler didn't intend fell together to make a game that was arguably but also seemed more like Hollow Knight. It's Rex just without the eye gouging. And I should say, while I have scrutinized video, I still respect him. He's clearly The beauty and design of the Ori games are to take heat for what he says on the internet. other game developers snake oil salesmen, Trust me, me talking openly about games and quite a bit of trouble before, I'm very aware that happens and when I was younger, I loved forums to explain this or that. It's great at least I think so. My goal with this video isn't to make you Mahler is a bad person, but to highlight how influence in the creation of any work of art a game than people usually realize just watching Also Thomas Mahler isn't the only one working on these games, each bringing their own creative And like I've said 100 times by now, the totally worth picking up if you enjoy platformers Wisps down to just being "Ori but more like it is that makes both Ori and Hollow Knight thing I want from this video is to start some and Ori fandoms over which games are better. I first played Hollow Knight back in April was small, and it felt like this undiscovered recommended it at the end of his video shitting it? By comparing it to other video games. Bam! Hollow Knight. It's like "cute Castlevania" the DuckTales hop. But now, Hollow Knight and its fandom loom sequel, Hollow Knight Silksong being the third With such a successful title and large fanbase, to Hollow Knight will be ending soon. It's become like Dark Souls in that people will looks even slightly similar. That's not necessarily a bad thing, though. Dark Souls probably helped convince people just how people describe new games to one knight aren't done just to put games down with games taking inspiration from them. Look, this game looks cool. We don't mind want to do that too". Just like how Team Cherry took a lot of their Zelda II, Metroid, Castlevania, Faxanadu, as well, Megaman X, Megaman Zero as well, According to their website, Moon Studios "prides process". And that's how great games get that be through popularizing an entire genre [Minecraft]. Or by combining and executing degree of polish [Hollow Knight]. Or by transferring something fresh and unique[Ori and the Blind And we as a community should try our best from great games and finding new ways to build developers taking mechanics or art styles since it's really easy to falsely attribute not to say that some developers aren't just game, but as long as the final product is not sure the other factors matter all that I'm excited to see how the Metroidvania amazing games as Hollow Knight and Will of game developers continue to drop, and the knows what Metroidvanias will look like in up with a better name for them. Eh, probably