Today I am going to show you how you can Well, except for the subwoofer, To start our journey, we are going These are the TMM Overnight Sensations, If you're building a sound system these are the speakers that I would start They are going to be And also these are probably the most that I've built to date. I took all the lessons I learned while building my other speakers In fact, I actually built those towers these hardwood speakers So once we're done, I'll have a comparison that a larger and more technically correct So with all that being said, Today we are going to be building Now MDF is actually the optimal material to use for speaker cabinets However, it looks like this. So it's going to present some interesting But we'll talk about that Let's just cut this guy up The problem with using hardwood to make speaker cabinets different parts of the wood and that can introduce distortion sound differently MDF, on the other hand, doesn't for at least a slightly better sounding Since these are tower speakers, I started by ripping some long, on the miter saw. You can see here to make sure that all of my pieces which should make my assembly later Now that we got all these pieces cut, But before we do that, And if you didn't know, a window brace that adds strength and rigidity Will still allowing air which is important for tower speaker is that massive internal air volume inside the cabinet means and efficiently do their job of moving air aka generating sound waves. Compared to my older, smaller speakers, and mid-range umph, while still being able and that's all thanks to that Assembly was a bit messy to overdo it here as you're trying And besides, any excess glue can easily there's one speaker cabinet done And then. two speaker cabinets done Or at least we're done with the back We still have to do the fronts. I don't want to make some boring to find a way to spice up the design I just need to find some Maybe. Now we're talking. That's it. We're going to use the power of plagiarism Give me a couple seconds to whip And then we are going to cut these guys 20 minutes was all and the machine got to work Well, Well, the X-Carve is over there You know what this dumb, me yelling I'll just tell you guys in a voice over. On the back side of each cabinet, The first one up top that allows air to move in The length of it is pretty important, before installing it. Down below where all eventually connect Now I put the breather port up higher likely to be blocked by baseboards, Next, I set up to install Originally, I was going install and then seal up the boxes, but that would And I'll explain why later With the X curve nearing completion, With the glue barely dry, I started cutting out large openings And good dust extraction as MDF dust is really nasty. All right. The curve is done just about the same time as me However, I got to give a slight edge It did beat me by a few minutes. these are going to sit A little something like that. So obviously these guys are still around the edges from the initial carve. So why don't we clean them up, and get them ready to be installed? After punching the centers out and sanding off what was left of the tabs, To and gave all of the exterior edges One of the reasons, aside from esthetics, these front plates to my speakers with sound quality on my old speakers, of the cabinets, which theoretically adds a bit of interference to the sound waves On these new speakers, the drivers will sit perfectly flush so there's nothing in the way to introduce We're going to leave these guys to dry Well they do. We're going to get started that go inside these speakers. This is a crossover. And what it is, that sits inside of your speakers audio frequencies It looks complicated, but I'm You don't have to be genius to figure out In fact, I don't even know what However, I am able to follow very simple like the ones that I got for the crossover as a kit to assemble your own crossover and to work a soldering iron. And honestly, you don't even have to be I know I. in order to give myself some landmarks I started by screwing which can be a bit tricky at times. These are junction points where you will Then I moved on to placing the capacitors, There's a ton of different ways But I prefer say glue because it sets instantly So if you want to get some for yourself, in the video description. now that we have all the components and twisted together, it's time to do I went and got myself a little soldering To make this project When he first starts he is going to look like a giant bowl of spaghetti with wires going But just stay calm. Stick to the instructions Before you know it, you'll have a clean, organized circuit Oh, and as a little bonus step, to the ends of each wire that runs This isn't strictly necessary, but it will make installation and any Now, I think we need to address Obviously, I wasn't just going to leave I don't think that would look very good. So today we're going to do something and I'm quite excited to try it out, We are going to. That was significantly less slick Today we are going to veneer these So I think the first thing we need to do this big giant sheet when it comes to pre cutting veneer And cut it so that it's the perfect size Make it an inch or so too big and that way when you go to install it. Trust me, it'll be a lot easier. Now that they got all these pieces cut, it's time And in order to explain that step, I think I'm actually going to switch to voiceover because it's about That's because I opted After a bit of research online, best hold. But the downside is that it's quite stinky Oh, and also Let me explain. first. As you can see, you roll it onto both of the surfaces Try to distribute it but don't work it for too long because it which is good because it doesn't need I told you it's a bit weird. once everything is dried to the touch, I use these wood dowels as spacers I had the veneer where I wanted it, A little bit of light pressure is all it should take to permanently bond But if you want to be extra safe, one should make sure It was definitely a bit odd bond together so well, Before you move on and start a good idea to trim the excess off Some people will use a trim router Did the job just fine. And a little bit of 220 sandpaper I made a pretty good mess while installing But by the time I got around to doing face of the cabinet, If possible, I would highly recommend applications before Well, But, hey, I learned a new skill today, and I think these look pretty decent I mean, obviously, it doesn't look as good you know, from two, three feet away, it's really hard to tell So I don't know. The next thing we need to do is cut out all of the holes So let's do that with a drill The drill will give you an initial Trimet will trim the veneer flush This part was actually really satisfying. Now, one of is that it's basically pre sanded However, And the reason for that is, well, just because I've been kind of rough so I've got some little scratch There's also a couple spots where the glue dripped over the edge and I just want to polish off that glue But I am not going to do the full sand I'm going to go right to 240 and I don't want to burn through it When you're working with material that's keep the sander flat and don't hold it If you try to round over an edge through the veneer So just be careful. Now, as much as I would love to continue by trying out a new finish, to match my existing speakers, with the exact same finish It's water based polyurethane. Roll it on, give it a sand It's going to be a little bit boring. So honestly, we're not going All right, that is it for finish. So I'm gonna let these guys drive, first we'll do the easiest bit. These breather ports Next I did the input plates, which And then I carefully lowered them into position, screwed them to the back of the cabinet, And now, before we go any further, these cabinets full of this stuff, and the point of Dacron is to absorb that might be bouncing around inside in the past which is the filling that you would find Honestly, I'm pretty sure brand name attached to it, What should I make these windows I keep scraping my elbows. Now we're ready to install the faceplates. Now, at this point, that I shouldn't be permanently What if I want to get in there the speakers Well, earlier I carefully sized it either of the driver openings, that you should always be applying This way, if I ever need to get in there for any reason, all I have to do The paint is now dry and we We got ourselves a little bit of an issue You see, And in preparation for that, Allen hex head impact. Allen key bits. What am I saying here anyways? I can't find them anywhere in the shop. So I teach you guys a little trick. We're going to modify this Allen key First, you're going to want to clamp it the last two inches or so using a bandsaw Take that little bit that I just cut out Oh, and before I forget. Each one of these speaker drivers sound dampening ring at this point, you're probably starting Good sound quality is all about You want to hear the sound waves that they're making, Not the drivers Next, it was finally time because I attached those little solderless connectors to the ends of each wire. This was really easy. All I had to do and then drop them in place. Then, using my newly created I was able to quickly and easily Just be careful you don't over crank them Oh. Does that not look nice or what? so at this point, we're basically done. However, I would like to do one last little bonus step I decided to add four leveler Not only will these keep my tall tower over on uneven floors but they also have which should help to dampen the speakers and providing yet another very, There we go. With that last little piece in place, So let's take these speakers home and finally answer that question Better sounding than what I made before. Oh man, these are heavy. So I think the headline is they sound great They have much better low which is great for listening to music, the biggest difference is listening It's just so much easier to understand it's interesting too, because I've never This big subwoofer here behind me kind of has that and cover, was in that lower part of the midrange, So yeah, big speakers are So now let's talk about all those things I did like using MDF instead of hardwood I can't rightfully say whether or not because I don't have But I will say this. One of the things that I've learned don't really know what could speaker bring them home And then after a few days, You essentially just raise the bar audio quality is. Now, I know that might sound a little bit discouraging at first, If you take the time to build a set of speakers that you're really proud of, Probably not for their technical accuracy, all the things you learned And whenever somebody comes over to your house, In this section of the video, and build a severely underrated This center channel. Now, a lot of the mistakes informing the decisions I made. When it came time to build the tower, If there's one thing I've learned, it's that every building But those pain points are within push So that is exactly why I had these. Building is pain, I just like being able to with a project and think, yeah, but it's making me a better builder. So if you want to get one for yourself, down below the video For reference And I am currently wearing a large. All right. What's going into this next project? here in front of me, we have all of the stuff we're going We have the wood for the cabinets that actually go inside the speaker We're going to set this stuff aside on the woodworking, and start In keeping with my previous design, were walnut and ash. The walnut I cut into two inch I cut into narrow little one You might also notice that That's a magnetic feather board. And if you've never seen Think of it like a helpful friend within an inch of the saw blade to help what you see in front of me here Or they will be Now, many people don't realize this, cabinet is actually So I had to make sure these glued up for the job at hand. Thankfully, so I didn't have to do too many complex However, I was going off the beaten path The instructions included with my kit dimensions of the cabinet, and assumed Seeing as I was actually making it a three quarter thick hardwood, Remember, when it comes to building speakers, it's Wait, that's the expression, right? While we wait for these to dry. Why don't we cut the front MDF is the ideal material But I don't know. I really like the look of a real hardwood, so I'm willing to take the sound quality But the front and back panels so why not make them out of MDF? As I talked about in the last project, NFS uniform density Well, one of the best parts about building get to pick and choose And honestly, we're talking probably not going to be detectable So try not to stress out I'm dreaming. I'm. Let's take off these clamps With the clamps off, it was time to do my usual clean up I've shown how useful my drum sander and stuff like that, but I think it really shines components provided There's no reason you can't run a bunch back over on the table. Saw. I carried a second design theme over That front chamfer again, that technically hurt sound quality You want the sound waves to come off the drivers Just like the MDF versus hard wood this actually matters is probably lost you know if you have better ears than I do and you want to build the best speakers the next thing I did was cut some half This would have been faster and easier saw switching to a Dado stack also which I didn't happen So I took the scenic route and cut After a quick test fit of the front panel, one for the rear. My friend, the feather board It kept the wood the whole way through the cut, which So, believe it or not, these two pieces here are going to form This is going to be the top piece. That's going to be the bottom. Obviously we have two pieces here. So we're going Using the miter saw When it came to cutting these miters, The first of which was getting perfect Based on my own personal experience, from the factory and can be out by as much as a full degree, But when you compound that error across eight cuts, so before you start cutting, check The other thing I had to watch out for was keeping my mirrored pieces And just like in my last project, I achieved this with a really cheap Stop blocks just clamp them in place All right, so let's do a little test this guy goes here. Come on. There we go. So at this point I think you guys can kind of understand So the next thing we have to do is cut the openings Believe it or not, the location of is also an important factor. And sound quality by all the things Yeah. Me too. At this point, I felt like I had made enough So I laid out all five drivers, That's right, for the mid-tones and one one inch tweeter I cut the three inch holes underneath the front panel to make sure Sitting here watching this footage is a great reminder It's tough to tell or just friction Once that was done, one inch hole saw it was back over to the assembly table We are almost ready to start I think I'm going to paint these panels I assemble it, because it's always easier The paint I'm using here is an ultra flat dark gray speakers in my setup. I chose to roll it on you get from a roller versus a brush, but that's really and as far as I know, it doesn't have I rolled two coats on the front, This is feeling pretty dry, so The hardest part about assembling this cabinet was keeping all six of its pieces Thankfully, I like to tape the corners of boxes This keeps everything but still allows you to flexibility with my tape hinges in place, a little bit of glue to all the seams, folding the cabinet into its final shape. Clipping the whole thing together was a bit tricky, you know that I'm not scared This actually would have been a great time frame to clamp things. Unfortunately, I don't own one of those, with my regular clamps. the actual cabinet itself I got all the clamps off, but we still have to do a little bit of, We had to sand and apply the actual finish to it, One thing we do have to do here, a little access hatch, all the wiring of the internal components If you don't have an oscillating multi-tool in your tool and go order one. Seriously, these things are so handy, Without mine, it would have been really annoying Oh, and don't worry. The panel that goes over this hole is slightly so I didn't have to worry Got that Cutlass sue. Quick test fit and. Yeah, that is pretty perfect. And they're nice. Does it vibrate? All right, As you might expect with a build was pretty quick and painless, sanded the whole cabinet to 220 grit, gently and then brushed on a few coats Normally I roll my finish on, interior corners, If I were to do this build again, though, to the cabinet reassembly To avoid all this cutting. Let's let that dry and well's dry. We'll get started on the internals in front of me. Here I have all the various Or I guess in the case of the drivers, some of the external components as well. So this is the panel that gets mounted And on it we are going to mount to actually soldering everything together, to figure out the spacing and location once I was confident, I started permanently I screwed down these terminals, I just used CA glue, couple of drops spray is all it takes. Some people use hot glue some specialty glues But it's hard to beat the convenience From there the various component leads, soldering them together, When it comes to soldering, a bunch of solder on your iron all over the wires. it might work for a bit, and decreased sound quality for Use your iron to heat up the knots of wires Okay, so I think that's our crossover So now let's move on this should be pretty straightforward. Stripper wire. And then crimp them Don't have a proper pair of crimpers. But these pliers seem to Cool. connect this onto here, And then the this end of it So pretty simple. You just have to do that I don't really know. We're it wasn't that bad. A few minutes of stripping and crimping hooked up. this crazy bowl of spaghetti here should now be a 100% Unfortunately, so that I could test this before But thankfully, all these little, quick relatively easy to troubleshoot the setup we're almost ready to start installing but we have a couple more jobs to do the first thing was just reinforcing all of my crimps This just made sure that those wires because honestly, the second thing I had to do was remove a little bit of material I cut them tight But as you can see here, when you attach So these notches are just to accommodate Also a quick side note, but really a dremel or a die grinder I think we're finally ready We got all our prep work done, First thing we're going to do This is a great example of do as I say Always, always, always test your I was flying completely blind here if the speaker would work And yet I did it anyways. So basically what I'm doing here that twisted ball of spaghetti Except now I'm doing it inside I'd connect a wire to the driver, and connect it back to the crossover. once I was satisfied and in the right place, and did my best not to knock off so hard to place. I'm pretty sure this is the same stuff And what it's supposed to do is absorb and dampen any sound waves don't want those dirty second hand You want the crisp, fresh ones Finally, it was time to start And I can't believe I made it this far inch drivers. They're basically the entire reason once I saw that cool metallic bronzy color how it would look paired these ones specifically are called who also happens to make the tweeter a metallic front, so it's hard Also check out these cool At first I was a bit bummed I would have to screw them in manually, in retrospect, I really dig And with those last few screws in place, Or at least I hope we done so some sort of amp I don't really know whether or not everything's working in there, and hook it up to the sound system So let's go do that. I should have clarified this earlier, which means that it needs to be plugged Or in my case, in order to power it and make sound So we're gonna hook this thing up that I did all the wiring right? This should be as easy as just slitting This one in here. Threading them both back And then connecting them Output. Push this back into place, with some music So getting a copyright strike. So we are going to Okay. I don't know. It's not coming out of the speaker. Okay. Hold on one second. This could still be a little bit of a Now they're working, and they sound great. quick word of warning. If you're thinking about attempting just be aware that it is going to turn you I used to be the type of person to the free pair of headphones These days, not so much. I definitely notice a lot more than I ever did in the past. So I guess the moral of the story is They're time consuming to make. They're expensive That is, unless, like I said earlier, you really happen to enjoy building things I think these speakers look great, So once you have your front and center the next thing I would But I got a little bit of a problem. You see, these speakers actually predate so I don't have any footage What I do have, however, is plenty These are Dolby Atmos height speakers is actually really cool. They build sound waves off of your ceiling of the sound happening above. You. but I'm going to let you guys in The only difference between these speakers some slight physical modifications So if you strip all that out, So I'm going to show you how I made these. And I think if you watch with a critical eye, you can very easily So the very first thing that I want to do on this And what we do that violating the principles of good speaker Just like in my center channel project, I'm going to be building But this time around, will help compensate and that same trick should also help I made the exterior You see, I wanted to make these speakers But I also needed a very specific interior to function optimally. So the easiest way to do that was to just shrink However, this introduces a new problem. It's going to make the cabinets which is also not good for sound quality, but I'm getting a bit ahead of myself The last step was just a quick pedal sheet of wood. Oh. Righty. Well, we wait for those panels We are going to cut the front baffles behind me on the CNC, but not because of its acoustical Just because it's cheap Now, obviously not but don't worry, there are other ways The first would be to just use and then a trim router you could be really lazy The speakers I'm building are going to be a modified version and there are a ton of retailers out there that include precut cabinets. In fact, these kits are a great way in the world of DIY audio and build out The rear baffles lacked I just cut them on the table, saw So that I could give my pieces I chose dark gray because I want to match my existing whatever you want here. Just make sure you seal up all the exposed MDF in order to keep it With our panels now dry. Let's talk about plan here was to fold them into boxes. So the first thing I did was work out There's very little margin for error here, before cutting my miters. With my sheets now separated into panels, saw to cut a series of rabbits The easiest way to cut these channels but I don't have one of those, the next best thing and cut them out Pro tip by the way, identical cuts like this, plan it out so that you're adjusting That will keep your measurements consistent between pieces As you can see the front And as a final detail I cut a small Normally this type of forward projection would be bad design, now it's time for my favorite trick Lay out all your pieces, edge to edge and If you do it right, into their final shape If not, adjust your tape When you do finally get it, apply Slot your from baffles into position. Fold it all together again and then apply you might be wondering why I didn't also And that's because we've still got quite So let's talk about the crossovers. You might be thinking that for Dolby Atmos the circuitry inside these speakers But you'd actually be wrong. All the crazy positional wizardry happens upstream in your AV receiver, But because these crossovers to do what all the other crossovers sounds to the tweeters and low frequency the only big change here that helps to keep all the things These are a great addition and I'll make sure to include some links tools and products I've used throughout the last step was taking the crossovers So that they'll be easy now that we are done with the electronics, we have our speaker cabinets here So I think what we had to do But that's kind of boring. So we're not gonna spend much time on this To keep things brief, and then rolled on a coat of the same polyurethane finish so that everything stays Now let's talk for a second Oh, right. Look at these. This is actually really dark walnut, that I like so much about Walnut is what you're going to get now that we've got these all finished counterintuitively Normally, you'd put the holes for an input plate with these speakers, that's not really going to work. So I picked the side and cut them there instead. three of the ports were easy, I had to cut these holes This is my go to choice. Any time I need to cut straight down into a flat surface, to have in the shop. A quick test fit made sure my holes were big enough So now I would like to fix a problem because I made the wood of these cabinets They're quite resistant. They've got a good drumming sound to them, which, as you might imagine, is not great So in order to fix that, I would like to borrow a product Anyone who has ever installed a subwoofer Dynamite. Or rather, its generic cousin, for pennies on the dollar. This is a foil backed butyl rubber, which and the beauty of it is that it So I got a bunch of small sheets of our cabinets, okay. Now that we got the first one done Here's that one. And that one as you can hear it still knocks. But this one is quite So yeah I think that actually works Oh and as an added bonus, look really cool, which is obviously the Speakers. So as you can see, these sheets the resonance of our cabinets, which should more than compensate and should make for much cleaner Alrighty, now we get to do We get to put all the components together Step number one was creating I installed the rear that will create a permanent, so that air can only go in and out This isn't an issue though, speaker, build is that all of your internal components through the largest driver hole. So if I ever need to get in there I can always do it through the woofer Next, I saw the two leads coming off Some people will use crimped on friction much prefer to use solder as it offers And similarly, I did the same thing B ns and the tweeters I've got a lot of experience as I've used them in Not only do they sound great, but they also look great The only downside to them they're clips drivers Before we install these last two panels the speakers. This is polyfill, and it's essentially or a stuffed animal. this stuff's going to go inside the speaker, and it's and make the speaker Smells like nothing. If you're doing this at home, you might be as you can into a set of speakers, I'd suggest putting in On the side of filling So let's talk about the projection Because conventionally speaking, As the sound waves they're going to reflect off And you're going to end up which is not what you want. But these are not conventional speakers. The goal of these speakers is going to be and then bounce them down. So in order to help direct to line these front projection These will absorb sound waves which should in theory anyways, focus beams. that way you're only hearing them Now thankfully for me So I was able to chop them up and then just glued them in place. Ooh. Would you look at that. Our speakers are now done. So I think is take them home, and see if they actually work as hate Oh, and as I'm chilling the speaker Right now, I'm just realizing we still have to make a custom that will hold the speakers like this kind of like bounce off like that. Unfortunately, anyone who saw my coffee that this is going to be a big pain My TV receiver, which is going to be in a compartment below my coffee table. This magical black box is responsible need to play, which sales in order So in order to install these new speakers, under my carpet and then up the backside It did take a while to set this all up, well worth it like I said before, Our speakers are pointed And given that our seating area it's probably not going to sound the best. So what I want to do to get these speakers And in order to do that, So this is what I came up with. And it's not dissimilar If you've ever seen one of those with some fingers on them And then if you look over here at the finished one, or there There's a couple friction And then on the other side there's a nut. So as you tighten down on this bolt, it basically locks the fingers And the cool thing about this is that you can adjust it to basically So it should give us a ton of flexibility downstairs, a little bit of double sided tape did a surprisingly good job And then it was time over the next couple of hours. The first was testing out and seeing what gave the most convincing And then the other one was running the This involves around the room, and playing a test The receiver some EQ magic to compensate and any suboptimal placements All right. So I guess the thing that we have to do And it was actually surprisingly hard had Dolby Atmos But I hear Dune on Netflix So I'm going to watch this for a minute Pretty much right away, I was confronted with something that I didn't really expect There's just not that many sounds that happen above your head What I noticed more than anything was the change For instance, when these helicopters moved from the bottom you could definitely hear them but they never really sounded Which makes sense Overall, I was still really impressed But that was only the start of my testing. one thing that I wanted to test just got a software update and now the So let's give that a shot And you know what. What I found here was equally surprising. At first I thought the Dolby Atmos would only be supported because it's such But what I found is that it actually works guess somehow they found a way positional audio over into Atmos. Okay. That might just be a game changer. Especially an older title like this is like a tech demo I didn't actually think but then as soon as I went in the area above my head, you can immediately sense that the sounds Again, it's like the movie. It doesn't sound like it's happening really get the sense that the sound Bottom line, And it's going to add a whole So that is how you build your own DIY and, well, they don't work exactly the way They do work surprisingly well, so that is how I built my entire home With one glaring omission. The subwoofer. Now, looking at this thing. You might think that, yeah, Zac probably built the subwoofer, What I actually did was take a clip, subwoofer and reskin it So it's literally just an off the shelf subwoofer But again, So as we wrap up this video, Would you like to see me Because I've actually got an idea So let me know down in the comments Peace.