So what was dinner time like in the Middle ages? the time manners were actually very important So to bone up on my Medieval manners stewed beef ribs with sauce. So thank this video as we mind our Medieval So I don't believe that any culture ever since we started walking upright has been completely As far back as 4,500 years ago wrote about proper conduct at court and at meals. My favorite instruction being &quot;Be silent for The gift of silence has never really been our modern table manners at least in the Western where they were written down in courtesy books, That was actually Amy Vanderbilt's etiquette Manners when I was a kid. I went with my mom, my not go well. I actually cannot even say everything but safe to say we did not get invited it would have been in that second mannerly eat ribs because ribs but when I eat them I'm a bit like a test my Medieval manners with this recipe from &quot;Stewed beef. Take fair ribs of fresh beef, and then put it in a fair possenet; cast raisins of currants, powder pepper, and salt; then cast there to wine and and let it boil soakingly on a then lay the flesh in dishes and the syrup there going to have that sweet and spiced flavor paired in Medieval and Renaissance cuisine yet a flavor with barbecue, and probably a few other things, A sweet and tangy sauce slathered on meat. So I'm really curious to see if they So for this recipe what you'll need is: a three to four pound or one and a short ribs will work as well. A half cup or a handful of minced parsley, a of currants. So let's talk about this ingredient a lot of confusion there are two things with the and then there are the currents of the ribose calls for currants what they mean are the They were originally called raisins grapes of the Greek city of Corinth, and as as we can see in the recipe today The berries sometimes erroneously called true currants didn't begin being they took on the term currant likely because when dried they look very similar So it's not always easy to tell which one they're talking about in a recipe unless then it's definitely a currant, the zante currant, but if it's afterward then if it's being juiced then it's probably the berry otherwise One teaspoon black pepper, three quarters one teaspoon red sandalwood powder. So this is the saundres in the recipe popular ingredient in a lot of medieval flavor especially when put up against things color so if you don't have it you can skip it and A pinch of saffron, 1 teaspoon of salt, a and two cups or 475 milliliters of white wine. And two cups is just the perfect amount of this Silverscape verdejo that i got It almost has a tartness to it like a it really dries your- dries your it's crisp it's perfect for summer. verdejo has actually been grown mostly in Spain. I don't know that but at least it's in the right period. And the fact that I can get this now is one along with more traditional varietals like also have less common varieties like It's often compared to a pinot noir though I and learning these little facts about wine Bright Cellars because they send these cards with about the the flavor of the wine as well And by taking a simple 7 question quiz they so the wines they send you are sure to impress they'll send a replacement And right now Bright Cellars is giving viewers off of your first six bottle box. So just click also this wine is kind of perfect because my mom always taught me that it's just good manners to bring a bottle of but before we get to the manners let's make rack there is usually a thin membrane along the peel off or you can have your butcher take remove any chunks of fat then set them in a Then wrap the pan tight in aluminum at 325 degrees Fahrenheit or 160 And you can barbecue them on the grill as then could mean several different things but make sure that they don't get entirely done While they cook add the parsley, onions, saffron, and salt to a bowl Then pour in the wine and the Then let that sit by as the ribs continue ribs out then place them in a What you do want to make sure is that it you want the liquid that we're going to pour in liquid mixture in then cover that and return it Now if you're not subscribed a fantastic time because it's just good manners though I don't think that they covered Now movies would have you believe that a decorum when in fact they were often more and observing someone's table manners was often Now the Medieval period can cover up to a even more so than today but anything that we during certain portions of the period&quot; but it So with the caveat that nothing ever covers of Medieval manners at least to have started in 13th century Italy, or but done so by an Italian. to write down was done so because Like the idea that dogs were always present That was actually very common but even in 13th century Italy they decided they needed to put some rules around it. &quot;The third rule after the thirtieth: not to stroke with the hands, so long as thou It is not allowed unto the courteous to stroke animals These early books of manners were a hit because the nobility of Europe was trying to hence deserved their position and nobody did so with more zeal than the English. King Edward IV had a man whose job was to keep track of the manners of those young men sent to the royal court. The &quot;How mannerly they eat and drink, and to their communications and other forms of court after the Book of Urbanite.&quot; The Book of Urbanite or Urbanitatis being a 14th century &quot;When you are set before the meat, fair and to pick your teeth at meat be loth. Nor in the cup All good advice and it clearly shows that there but we've gotten ahead of ourselves because the manners and etiquette of a meal actually start long before the food ever arrives. In 1460 one courtesy book which were the books of manners mainly directed it says that when you get to the hall This would not include the knife that everyone but everything else goes and then you would ask permission to enter the hall and if it's given then &quot;When thou comest the whole Then you would look up toward the deus or the raised would end up being and if anyone was there make whatever kind of bow you needed to do, and only then would you go to your seat. The more often there was actually nobody up at that table because the higher-ups didn't come in until everyone else was already seated, the origin of being fashionably late. Also before you you must wash your hands. It was done before the Usually servants would go around with basins of and they would make sure that everybody's hands were cleaned before any food was brought out. Oh and it's not just your hands but So provided you're all fresh and clean now you can finally take your seat, but don't get too comfortable because you are expected to stand up every time somebody more important comes in the hall, and as you wait for the feast to finally begin you might as well check and make sure that you have all of the accoutrement that you're going to require: a short knife which you use to cut food into bite-sized pieces, and at certain times this would also include a spoon. The spoons could be rather expensive and were often and both knives and spoons were actually a great Instead of a Maserati you had a really nice spoon. The wealthiest used spoons of silver or gold, and one set of knives owned by King Henry VIII were encrusted with emeralds, pearls, rubies, and diamonds. A true flex of the age... or was he trying to compensate for something? Now you wouldn't have a fork because in most of Europe at this time forks were only and forks for eating really didn't become a thing until the very end of the Medieval era or even into the Renaissance, and then it was in Italy. But in England starting during the reign of the fastidious King Richard II one which was used to wipe your hand. Specifically it but still before the food arrives there are You were to speak to anyone who spoke to you. Very rude to ignore Though if everyone is following the rules those who are speaking to should never raise your voice in the hall. In fact then best &quot;To mostly maintain silence, but if you do speak be where you are, to whom you are speaking, and of whom you are speaking. Rules that should still apply today except on the Now another rule that still applies today and I don't see why that is still a I mean I don't know if it's rude. I don't know- if anyone Tables, especially the and they weren't permanent fixtures but only set that were balanced on the legs with no actual attachment. So depending on how big the table was or how heavy you were if you put your elbows on it you might flip or collapse the table, but finally it is time for the food to arrive usually on big However that doesn't mean it's time to eat. &quot;Don't be greedy over the food. Sit for a time before you start eating to show your temperance, and eat only what you need. Now that may have been the goal but it was clearly not always practice because the poet Andrew Barkley wrote &quot;If the fish be pleasant, either flesh or fish, ten hands at once swarm in mangling the flesh and in the platter flee, to without a gauntlet or else a glove of mail.&quot; Basically watch out or you're gonna lose a hand. So now if you have minded your manners up until this point So you would take, using your knife, a piece of the meat or whatever it was which was either wood or it was a slice Then you'd cut the food up into bite-sized Because &quot;Blow down not online meat nor drink.&quot; Then you would bring the morsel to your mouth using your thumb and first two fingers. What you would not do is take the meat or whatever it was on the knife, and put that into your mouth. 1) that's tacky 2) it's kind of dangerous. Speaking of dangerous the Medieval manners books usually not to drink with food in your mouth, and I always just assumed that that was because nobody wanted to see the half masticated cow in your mouth but it's actually a matter of safety. As one book says physics is not on your side and when you take that drink &quot;Thou may be choked on that bite, if it go wrong thy throat into and stop thy wind, thou art done for.&quot; And before the Heimlich maneuver you might be surprised at how many people died simply by choking so it was really a matter of self-preservation. Some of the other rules you may want to know about is to never take salt from the salt cellar with anything but the Also don't chew on bones as dogs chew on bones but cut all of the meat off of the bone before eating it, something I want to remember when I eat my ribs. Another rule that I think doesn't go far enough that hits rather close to home considering my kitchen came with this 'No Spitting Sign' is that you should &quot;Turn away when spitting lest your saliva fall on someone. If it should be trodden upon lest it nauseate someone.&quot; &quot;Nor is it seemly, after wiping your nose, to spread out your handkerchief and peer into it as if pearls and rubies might have fallen out of your head.&quot; You know who you are, and this one might apply to you as well. &quot;Do not move back and forth on your chair. Whoever does that gives the impression of constantly breaking or trying to break wind.&quot; These rules are from the Dutch writer Erasmus and you don't want to swallow it, maybe it's a bit his idea of where to put it is even worse. &quot;If you cannot swallow a piece of food, turn around discreetly and throw it somewhere.&quot; Then, and this one will make it so he is never invited to my house for dinner, &quot;Do not be afraid of vomiting if you must; for it is not vomiting but holding the vomit in your throat that is foul.&quot; Strongly disagree. Now the English writers definitely give some more sensible advice like &quot;Don't loosen your belt sitting at the table for that is most uncourteous. Don't burp or fart... Share your delicacies with your fellow diners so as to be seen as kind and generous and don't complain if your serving is small.&quot; And some must-have advice for Medieval Europe, and today at the dinner table. &quot;Pick not thine ears nor thy nostrils. Pick not thy teeth with thy knife. Laugh no nor grin and with much speech thou mayest do sin.&quot; Okay that last part went a little too far no the no picking your ears and your nose Actually in Medieval Europe touching your head Another thing to keep in mind is to not finish and more importantly you'll seem stingy because is given to the poor, so don't be that guy or gal. And these rules did apply to men and women but I do feel that the women were often held to a higher standard. The 13th century French poet 'Le Roman de la Rose' or the romance of the rose lays out how a lady specifically should behave at table. &quot;She must be very careful not to dip her fingers nor to smear her lips with soup or garlic or fat meat, nor to take And she must be sure never to touch Let her wipe her mouth so clean that no grease at least not upon her upper lip, for when grease is left on the upper lip globules appear in the wine, which is neither pretty nor nice.&quot; But for the men don't fart at the table, and if you have to hock a loogie do it over there. Double standard more even more so when it came to the conversational part of a meal, and at least one Medieval writer Robert &quot;If she speaks, someone says iit is too much. If she is silent she is reproached If she is friendly and courteous, someone pretends it is for love. If on the other hand she does not put on a bright face she passes for being too proud.&quot; I'm so glad that all of those issues have been completely banished from today's society, right? So that's a lot of rules to remember but I am going to as I enjoy my Medieval beef ribs. So at about 90 minutes or two hours remove the ribs from the oven and serve them on a platter with plenty of the liquid left. And here we are, beef ribs from 15th century England. So first I'm going to cut Then place one rib on it so as not to seem greedy, and do my best to cut the meat off the bone and into bite-sized pieces. I will take a morsel and pop it in my mouth. That's perfect. Wonderfully tender and even though the sauce isn't on it right now really I would dip it into the sauce at a Medieval feast, but there's some sauce on it so you're still getting so much of the flavor, and by sauce really I mean like the liquid and the other things that it was cooked in but anyway you still get so much of the flavor and it's sweet and it's also like tangy and it kind of reminds me of barbecue sauce because we have so much- so many currants and everything so that's really what you're getting. I feel like the sugar- a lot of the sweetness probably comes from the It's really more of the currants and maybe the cinnamon. Really, really good and I'm going to finish all of these ribs [CHOMP] So a reminder that the Tasting History Cookbook is available for pre-order online at pretty much anywhere where you buy books and I will see you next time on Tasting History.