Vlad Gozman: Obviously people know you you're at the helm of what I would say for developers worldwide, and also a player early on But before we go into all that and GitHub, I want to go back a bit. I'm curious, something what people might not know Thomas Dohmke: I took a plane But I think you're asking I was born in East Berlin in 1978, and so for the first 12 years of my life, I didn't really have access to computers. There was a Robotron, in the geography lab that we were And then I bought And, you know, it's been forgotten I had to buy like a yellow book. It was literally called And then you taught yourself coding, There was no forum, no Reddit, no GitHub. You had to either figure it out yourself, or you had to go and hope there's another nerd there In 1998, I started university And, you know, one of the big benefits was that you had a landline that didn't cost any money And I bought SUSE Linux in the bookstore to get into the world of open source. And obviously, I found lots to ask all the questions the Usenet. And you know, went And when the iPhone SDK it's time to do something new. I quit my job at Bosch at the height of the financial to become an independent that builds iPhone and Android apps. And of course, you know, I was able to also distribute all my apps and then later build a platform that was acquired by Microsoft in 2014. And that then moved me from Stuttgart where I got lucky in 2018 to be part of the GitHub acquisition. And ultimately, you know, VG: What a journey. It all has led to this moment. (Applause) But, you know, it raises You've been successful And then you left. I mean, your further steps But you left. So my next question is, you know, how do we keep the next What does Europe need to do? TD: Microsoft made me leave. You have to say it like that. Although, being honest, it also was always a dream of mine in the '90s, when I was a kid, I felt I was born too late to be part But then obviously now where we are today, it's clear that there was another one with cloud, and now we are in one with AI. And so I think, you know, maybe they would just say you can work or remote-only work. It's much more prevalent That said, though, you know, I can come up with three things And the first one is school and schooling, which, it's ridiculous to me that we don't teach kids like, we teach kids physics, biology and chemistry that you almost But we don't teach them how to build and for their computers that we all Like, think about that for a second. These are the most important You know it because you can that doesn't have their phone Whether it's in the subway So I'd say schooling And, you know, it's easy to blame oh, the politics have to change something. I think it starts with us as parents to think ahead and think outside the box of what frontal lessons are The second one is start-up It's so hard to found a company and in many European countries. The GmbH has to go away. That's just the fact. You see a lot of German start-ups that the first thing they do and click in a Delaware LLC, because that's much easier We have so much regulation in Europe, GDPR, you know, DSA, DMA, you name it, that start-ups need to follow Like that's I think where we need to build a new ecosystem ... Because we know that disruption is coming from start-ups. The big incumbents There's exceptions, of course. And, you know, hopefully GitHub But the regular mode the founders are the ones And then lastly, you know, infrastructure. You know, my hometown, on their web page, they're saying 95 percent of all But what they mean is 50 Mbit. That's not broadband. When my kids stream Netflix or YouTube and have a WhatsApp chat I can no longer, you know, join the Zoom call with you And I think this is where the European and have an infrastructure package, and not bridges and streets and all that. That's that's good too. But like broadband internet, VG: Well, some might argue How do you stand on that? TD: Regulation is good with a big law department because then you can go here, I check all the boxes, so you don't have to argue Instead, you can just, you know, go through the sales process much quicker. But it's not good It's not good for small start-ups that do not want to spend all their money consulting company or for a law firm. And so there needs to be exceptions Innovation needs to be focused open-source developers to move really quickly. And then if they reach a certain size, when they actually become Same with banking, right? When they become relevant to the system, that's when the regulation, VG: And do you see, you know like, we lived through this really fast-paced, really, really fast-paced Do you see it now leveling And again, with a bit How does that change the game a start-up from Germany, for instance? TD: I think it changes and one is actually on my shirt, it says, "Copilot speaks my language," because you can use Copilot, ChatGPT, almost all these AI chatbots in the language you grew up with. Here in Austria and Germany, Most six-year-olds, seven-year-olds, they speak mostly German while the open source are mostly English speaking. And so if you want to learn coding because you have already played you don't want to learn English first, what you want to do is build a little game because that's what humans want to do, And so they can now approach this how do I create a snake game or pong game or how do I build a Minecraft extension? And they don't need parents at home Like, if you don't have anyone that can help you when you're stuck. And that's the most important moment is when you're stuck, so you're not frustrated and go back scrolling through TikToks? That's the moment and that's where I believe there's a huge And it's already happening The second piece is, you know, Europe has slept through like, most European countries on the cloud transformation. If you look in, you know, the Drager report that came out of the top 50 tech companies, And I'm sure most of you I can only name one, SAP. And in the last 50 years, there has been not a single European that has reached more than 100 billion while the six trillion-dollar all have been founded That's where the opportunity with AI is, We don't need to catch up on the cloud as much as we need to be all-in on AI. And it starts all with you, right? We can always blame it and on our bosses. It starts with all of us I'm assuming that's why you're here today. And hopefully tomorrow or figuring out how AI works and how you can leverage AI in your career or your start-up or your team. VG: Yeah, thank you for that. I want to push back, though, a bit, because it sounds, that Silicon Valley usually gets, right, it sounds techno-optimistic, right? What about -- A comparison that I've always heard is, you know, we're living through a new type of industrial When I think back on the Industrial it had really heavy So what would you say to somebody who would call you a techno-optimist? TD: What's wrong with being an optimist, would be my first response. Especially as a German, I think, you know, being optimistic (Laughter) (Applause) I think we, as humans, we love to focus on the day by day. And the day by day, whether it's in our lives often has lots of ups and downs, and we focus heavily on the downs because those are impacting us emotionally But if we actually zoom out or if I go back to my grandfather's my father was born in 1939, what life was back then, there is no question that life Like, massively. Like, life in Europe, everywhere here and everywhere has gotten so much better. Our lives are so much more comfortable, our houses are so much warmer, And obviously with technology the internet and FaceTime, it's also much easier to travel to live on the other side of the planet. You know, I moved my family and we call our parents That wasn't possible, you know, when people immigrated It's indisputable And I think we should have optimism But of course, it starts with us, You know, we need to all have the mindset I can make the world a better place." My first job after university So back then DaimlerChrysler, I feel like Europe needs We want to be the best in everything. We want to be the best in soccer, right? And we are kind of like because almost all the Formula One But let's apply that model and all the ideas that we're pursuing, all the companies that we're building, and I think we're going to create in the long run. VG: Well, I sure hope so. I want to pick up about us teaching our kids Now AI is changing the game It influences the way we code, perhaps, though, making coders obsolete. So what would you say OK, you develop technology Why should we teach our children to code? TD: If you look back at my journey we could have asked that question You know, you could have asked me from cassette tapes When we went from punch cards that I first saw in my mom's to assembly language Basic and all of a sudden, When we went from no open-source at all or we typed listings And most of the listings they were checksums because you could put more checksums to the internet Today, no startup anywhere and no big company is starting a new project without Open-source operating system like Linux, open-source editors like VS Code, open-source container technology thousands of open-source libraries. When you start a new React project, if not thousands of libraries And that means millions of developers because they built all they made your life easier. But they haven't replaced the demand In fact, if you are or if you're in a company I bet you anything all your feature for your personal perception. Because the developers They have the innovation backlog. You know, their own ideas, their product manager's ideas, all these kind of things, the innovation that drives And that's an endless backlog. I will never be done I will just retire and give up and somebody else comes in And then on the other side we have the compliance requirements, all the European regulations security, privacy, accessibility, all these other things because if you don't do them, you have a security issue, and you have to go to the press and tell them that you lost which is often driving a company And so you have to balance those two And you can't only do this one, So you need to use AI to bring it so developers can actually innovate more. And now with AI they no longer have They have to do back end and front and AI and prompt engineering So I'm sure there's a bunch And so I don't think I think we are drowning in software. Marc Andreessen said, over 10 years ago. Software has eaten the world. And we as software developers And we're still managing COBOL (Applause) VG: So what you're saying is with AI, And I know GitHub is sort of where even more developers are enabled maybe share a bit of that vision. How would we get to a world where we have not a few hundreds but over a billion TD: At GitHub, one of our if not the most important value, is that we have the saying, as we always put the developer first every product design, every process. My HR team is using GitHub. My legal team is using GitHub, which also means red lines are much easier because it's just a diff And that comes with, you know, the conviction that if you want that means you want to make Because happy developers productive developers are innovating And so Copilot is following that vision, because we really built because we wanted to make our developers a little bit more happy. And we believe, you know, that journey will continue If you think about the original Copilot, it was just predicting the next complex algorithms, you could explain code, you can now document that method, you can write test cases. And you can all do that And that building block of a line of code or multiple lines of code is going to grow as the AI We will have smaller agents something that tests all our software I don't know many developers It's more like, how little test cases so I pass code review So we really are on that journey of enabling people to write a short prompt a little web page, a little module, a piece of code that pushes them forward, that lets them stay I know many people that use Copilot from Monday through Friday, but also are telling me, "This is so great on a Sunday afternoon, and getting back on my hobby is hard if I constantly have to go how things are done So we want to spark ideas, you know, we want to keep developers in the flow, and we want to enable, you know, 60-year-olds, you know, anyone who wants to learn coding, VG: That's kind of Now, before we go, but, I'm curious. I mean, a lot of people know GitHub here. A lot of people know Copilot. I'm curious if you can share What is GitHub working on? TD: So we have our conference coming up, and we have a lot that I cannot share with you today. (Laughter) But I think, you know, it goes along that journey that we will, you know, that lets you spark new ideas and where you can explore VG: Great, so a nice teaser. Looking forward to finding out more. Thank you a lot. TD: Thank you.