You hear not with the ears, but with the mind; Confucius In psychology, as well as popular culture, The dopamine detox, for example, also called as a way to "reset" our brain's reward that bring pleasure. This serves different purposes. One of them is increasing our motivation, so easily available anymore, so it becomes Another purpose is working with our addictions, the relationship we have with things we're to handle. Hence, the method of Alcoholics Anonymous The idea of detoxing ourselves from outside The ancient Taoists acknowledged the value exhausting maelstrom of judging, identifying, According to the Taoists, silencing our faculties it also brings us closer to a mysterious and The 'fasting of the heart' entails a temporary This concept isn't just about detoxing the down the mind and the senses. This video explores the 'fasting of the The term 'fasting of the heart' is coined in which Confucius has a conversation with Yen Hui wanted to travel to the kingdom of and wisdom. Confucius criticized Yen Hui's plans for is waiting for a know-it-all that enters the When Yen Hui asked what he should you then, Yen Hui then replied: "My family is poor, wine nor flesh. Is not that fasting?" "The fasting of religious observance it fasting of the heart." For a Westerner, the heart has a different The word 'heart', in this context, is (Xin ) which could be translated as 'mind', the heart was the center of human cognition. Thus, the 'fasting of the heart' is actually Confucius explained it by saying that it 'cultivates of the mind. Or as he states: "You hear not with the but with your soul." To understand what Confucius meant by 'cultivating concept that the Taoists call Tao. The Tao is an all-encompassing force that Nonetheless, it's eternal, it's everywhere, We cannot recognize it with our senses, nor But, we can feel it. Because our mind cannot know the Tao, and way to get closer to the Tao is by stopping left to disturb the connection we have with So, it's a subtractive process, a way of and experience oneness with the universe. So, it's the abundance of thought and sensory Confucius called 'cultivating unity'. Even if the idea of Tao doesn't appeal to of the heart, as it's an ultimate detox should we say our non-being). This helps us to achieve what so many people inner peace, or just simply: a break. The senses are the gateways between the world what the senses pick up. A mind is a powerful tool, but it can also out of control. The mind's survival mechanism is based on Good and bad, beautiful and ugly, healthy But in the Taoist worldview, these are just In other words: as there is no high without no beauty without ugliness, and so forth. Seeing the world in opposites also creates Our fears, our aversions, our hatred, and discerning faculties. It's the old story of us and them, which between humans and nature. Needless to say, this mechanism serves an Without it, how can we distinguish friend Or a good decision from a bad one? Without thinking, how can we plan for the Using the mind helps us to thrive, communicate, But when we let the mind use us, there's than an asset. The more we attach ourselves to our beliefs, The more stern we are, the more brittle we The stronger we desire something, the more will be. The more troubled our thoughts, the darker The more we feel that we possess something, we become. The continuous chatter of the mind exhausts How can we find inner peace, when we're 'Cultivating unity', therefore, is the the experience of the interconnectedness of everything, which can be achieved by quieting the mind. I quote: Can you coax your mind from its wandering Can you let your body become supple as a newborn Can you cleanse your inner vision until you Can you love people and lead them without Can you deal with the most vital matters by Can you step back from your own mind and thus End quote. When our hearts fast, we become passive and When we become still like a pond in the center becomes clear. When we let things slide and don't intervene, Confucius probably knew that the fasting of to not intervene and let the kingdom of Wei His mingling with a business not his own would As Lao Tzu stated: "For those who practice End quote. And so it works with the mind. Could it be that all our neuroses, addictions, are products of mind's tyrannical efforts Do we embark on a 'dopamine detox', because any longer? If so, then abstaining from external pleasure problem lies in our hearts. Thank you for watching.