It is important to learn from your I am Mohammed bin Salman, better known under the acronym MBS. I am 34 years old. Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia, I am accused of having kidnapping a foreign leader. I am waging a bloody war in Yemen, suppressing all opposition. I am considered impulsive, unpredictable. Yet, I am welcomed with all honors. My kingdom owns huge oil reserves and weighs on the global economy. I hold the main holy sites of Islam. I am the main customer of Western I am a key partner in the fight I am leading reforms that could and enrich you. I am unavoidable. I am your ally. But for you, it comes at a price. What does Mohammed bin Salman Where is he going? He could, at the passing of his for several decades, and become a well-known His future, is in a way, ours. MBS Like every year, in the desert, the traditional camel festival In the guise of celebrating the event reminds everyone, to whom Saudi Arabia belongs to. The world's only country His name, Mohammed bin Salman Al Saud. His grandfather founded His father has been king His family owes its power to the in the name of a radical Wahhabism. Then, the discovery of black gold as well as life insurance, since a pact with oil versus safety. The descendants of the founder, several hundred princes recognizable by the golden trim rule equally over MBS was born and raised He was born in a palace in Riyadh, His father, Salman, one of the is the governor of the city. Her mother, whose only photo is here, is the third wife, and his favorite. Favorite son, his childhood was In a world of traditions where music, cinema, and diversity But in private, a well-born prince Few people greatly know than this American academic, great specialist in Islam. He got to know MBS through his brothers that he had He lived in palaces, spent time in Europe. His family had homes He had all sorts of tutors. Anything he wanted, he could get it. He was surrounded by flatterers, people who always thought Imposing discipline in this universe Turbulent, quarrelsome, MBS imposes He often prefers to have fun rather than to listen to his tutors. His strong personality was As a teenager, he made his first in the premises of a Saudi television He seems already eager to come out of the shadows. He was 16 when an event disrupted The attacks of 9/11, organized by the offshoot of Bin Laden. And executed by 15 Saudis that the country feeds and exports. The relationship with so essential to the power At first, the royal family Then, as from 2003, Al-Qaeda attacked Saudi Arabia. It was an electroshock Mohammed bin Salman took precisely at this time of transition. When it became clear threatened the survival of The Saud family, therefore, hunts but continues to live as unable to challenge its system. In 2013, at the age of 28, MBS goes with his father to a summit largely financed by the kingdom. His father became crown prince, the designated successor Still in his wake, MBS was promoted Many princes were educated abroad, often in major British In a way, he is a bit of an exception He was trained the old-fashioned way. He studied at the University of he acquired it while which undoubtedly also allowed His rise is unusual, in a regime seniority prevails. There are different ways to try chose his young son. Perhaps this young prince reminded Of course, it's classic who devotes too much love and In the name of God, I swear to my king and to my country. In the name of God I swear to never betray the State. It is the beginning of Two years later, in 2015, his father At 85, in poor health, his first decision was In the Saud family, power is not but between the founder's King Salman designates says MBN, 56 years old. Long-serving graduate of an American university. It was him that everyone saw as Everyone thought that he was MBN, he has a lot of support, but also abroad, where Salman, however, came as a surprise. At only 30, his son was appointed of Minister of Defense and This appointment of an far beyond the royal palaces. Two countries, the United States and France, keep a close eye on - Thank you so much On site, they each have their own The very polite French ambassador, present in Riyadh since 2007, is no stranger to the ruling family. He represents France's interests, whose armaments industry And New Yorker Joseph Westphal, the new ambassador the guardianship power in Riyadh. I was new here so I asked who it was. I did what we do today, to try to understand. He is a tall, handsome boy, and someone who wants to take action, who wants to show that he has He gave me the impression of someone who wanted to move it forward. The prince is very young, so, yes, there was I'd be lying if I said that I had the positions he held afterward. In the secret of the palaces, his youth is an asset, and not a disadvantage. For these are perilous times - Good evening everyone. - I am your father's uncle. - And your grandfather's brother. The new minister, accompanied attends a family reunion This aging and wealthy generation, knows it's out of breath, out of touch from the real country. Half of the kingdom's 34 million Often idle, they suffocate under in the homeland of Wahhabism. The Sauds fear that they During the visit of an American the young minister confides During our long conversation, was heading towards disaster. Too many young people, with great expectations. The Sauds are petrified by which four years earlier, saw peoples rise up Protests occur regularly but Feminists are calling for basic or the abolition of the vice squad. - What do you want from me? - Is it because I'm wearing He understood the dilemma He told me about opening cinemas, culture. He was in favor of opening However, he was not so naive as to snap his fingers It is a conservative country. He was aware of the political The prince knows that if he wants he must start by asserting himself. To this end, he surrounds himself with a new completely dedicated. Ali Shihabi belongs to Saudi Harvard graduate, banker, he leaves everything to work for MBS. It takes a strong leader A weakling won't get anywhere. The problem with Saudi Arabia is that over the past 30 years, I saw in him special qualities, We really needed it. And indeed, at the gates of his kingdom, to prove himself by confronting In March 2015, in Yemen, a poor country south of Saudi Arabia, a rebellion conquered the capital, The Houthis are supported The mullahs' regime has always accused of being pawns of America The Sauds feel besieged by Iran, whose in Iraq, in Syria, in Lebanon, Without your strength and will, nothing will be possible. Thanks to God, we will go from Two months after taking office, the young Minister of Defense He launched an aerial without even warning People say, he's young, impulsive, It's wrong. Prince Mohammed did not want because the Americans you want to fight Iran He told us, let's go ourselves. And he went to war. It was unacceptable for an Iranian MBS can be confident. The kingdom is fighting a But it has the world's and the support of its Emirati ally. A more seasoned leader would is always uncertain. We talked about Yemen, both on WhatsApp and face-to-face. Initially, he thought he would I told him that we could not - He who sells his soul to the Saudi, - He who sells himself to the Saudi, - Death to America! I suggested other methods, He listens, I am sure I am not And his answer, is&quot; listen Death to America, death to the Saudi. He compares Ayatollah Khomeini He sees Iran as a revolutionary state that only aims at destroy - In the name of God, take off If MBS is not listening it is also because this conflict A new image, in a country hitherto run by MBS seized the opportunity to play This is something new Saudi Arabia has always been much larger than the Saudi nation. We referred to Islam. Today, we have the impression that anti- to build Saudi Arabia into a nation, The war makes him popular. A video clip broadcast widely the capture of Tehran. Young MBS advisors are suspected In the real world, his army is gradually mired in hopeless, and ruinous. From 2016, the country even became MBS then turns to his allies. He demanded that we do something. He asked us for more help But we wanted a peaceful solution His allies are under pressure shocked by the use of Western weapons in a conflict causing famine, and bloody blunders. We have made a decision. We will help you, but not You will have technical assistance Likewise, regarding ammunition that he runs up against similar The United States, ourselves, were that all this should lead to in other words a political solution. And MBS throws a little tantrum I will send black people The West was very cautious. America was careful not to get Saudi Arabia bought a lot of And that requires ammunition, &quot;If we don't get them, we'll do It is not about Western aid. These weapons were paid for outright. MBS feels let down by and in the first place by America. Barack Obama, whose country withdraws from the Middle East. Worse, when he goes to Riyadh to announce the signing with the Saudi' sworn enemy. None of our nations have an interest in conflict with Iran. We welcome an Iran that plays They felt that they had not They were surprised by these They criticized us for going they considered as enemy. If Saudi Arabia is treated like this It is also because it has bad And finally, true and lasting that serves all its citizens, and respects universal human rights. Off camera, a revealing The President expressed concern for a simple tweet. 1000 lashes, 10 years in prison, 16 years in prison. He cited all of these cases. The king responded. And then MBS got up and spoke, which was contrary to custom. Sharp, the young minister went to the American president This is our system, we have our laws, It was a striking moment. Maybe I'm overinterpreting, but what was clear was that between the boss, at least the one who had it was Mohamed Bin Salman. Within the American administration, some are concerned of his ascension. In their eyes, his outburst only I cover intelligence services and I am particularly interested My CIA contacts were They considered him too young, inexperienced, impulsive, with a Manichean vision Based on their sources they even considered him This portrait is the opposite of the reigning crown prince, The Americans cannot decide But in Saudi Arabia itself, of competition between the princes, to be the one closest It counts in power. If the person chosen can develop with the President this allows him to strengthen Six months later, everything changed. MBS is surprised to see returning a man who vilified Obama's The prince kept convincing his father Him, rather than MBN. In March 2017, he achieved his goals. Then Donald Trump's advisor, Steve Bannon is in particular MBS was deputy crown prince, not crown prince. I found it surprising. He was said to be impulsive. Maybe it was true, but I thought to myself that the royal If they sent it to him, For MBS, this trip to Washington Today we are facing a serious danger when it comes to the hostiles activities the extremist and terrorist These 3-4 days in Washington The meetings followed one another. I saw someone who was Well briefed, who knew what The most impressive thing was He can charm anyone. Of all the people he has met, However, he seduced them. He knows exactly which what message to convey to charm someone. It's a skill. When it's useful, MBS knows to use Especially when convincing the former of his will to reform his country. I was impressed. He is very impressive. First, he wants to completely In addition, culturally, he is trying to open up He has a sense of urgency. It fits well with Trump, "Let's go! Now!" MBS was the same way. Two months later, Trump grants his first trip abroad, to Saudi Arabia. The one who just tore up is received as a viceroy. We were in the car following They could be heard from afar. When we got there, they had swords, there was It felt like we were on the set A young man the same age as MBS is competing for his honeymoon The president's son-in-law, Jared gets along very well with MBS. They have a real connection. MBS is a millennial like him, who understands technology, media. Their proximity is not only They have the same vision of life. Kushner is in charge of an ambitious which would finally offer diplomatic Trump appreciates MBS's enthusiastic Iconoclast, the prince is in favor of for a long time the number against today's common enemy. We have differences with Israel, But we see Iran in the same way. And Iran is the biggest threat This is not the only reason. MBS admires Israel's economy He would like Saudi Arabia to become and militarily. We talked about it. For example, he admires which are themselves very He is interested in these It does not mean that he approves I am only talking about His friend Jared's peace plan But for MBS, right now, the American president's visit He still has one last hurdle A month later, on 20 June 2017, this scene is filmed. - I give you my word of honor. Despite appearances and signs his cousin is forced - May God bless you and - I am relieved. God bless you. - I'll never be without your MBN has a lot of support. You can't do things any way The operation will be carried out destroying MBN's reputation. We will explain, in particular, and there will be leaks communicated and covered by some foreign media. According to which MBN is addicted which makes him unable to govern. MBN will no longer appear in public, probably placed under house arrest. The ambitious Mohammed bin Salman Two years after his arrival at the and to prove himself in the eyes Sick, King Salman fades away and leaves him with He is 32 years old and a kingdom Without delay, the new strong man as spectacular as symbolic. In a few months, he abolished grants women the right Here's another historic victory. A brother lends his car Finally, he allows public concerts previously banned. In the land of Wahhabism, - 70% of Saudi Arabia's population - We are not going to spend another accommodating ourselves Let's return to a moderate Islam, MBS is shaking up the powerful pillar of the monarchy. We all expected that he would He urges the religious to approve it, like this leader of the influential or else pay the price. What he did was, one month before he sent a powerful message He had 70 or 80 religious "I won't tolerate any resistance It worked. They muted their protests. A few months later, to one of MBS will send this video of by writing to him "It was either - I cannot believe that I am - My heart is pounding. - I want to feel I'm part of this, So, is MBS progressive? Women's liberator? If MBS is for women's rights, Why is she hiding? There are no photos of her. She's a ghost. He doesn't even allow his wife or Whenever I talked to MBS, I felt that ideology was Survival, power, adopting pragmatic measures all of that is much more important. It is all about survival. By opening his country, he offers a much-needed And to the Western world, at a time when he needs it the most. Indeed, the kingdom he inherits The Sauds may be as rich as Croesus, they can no longer fund Their 34 million subjects don't Two-thirds of them are employed by But 80% of the kingdom's income comes from oil. Its price plummeted, Worse is to come. Western demand is decreasing, and in a few decades Already, 12% of the inhabitants You would be shocked. In Riyadh alone, forget about We don't have bus lines. We don't have a subway yet. In some neighborhoods, Water flows into a hole Every month, someone and dumps it elsewhere. This is so, even though we have MBS is exhausting his ministers. When I came for a meeting in I walked through the palace exhausted from working until They took the situation seriously The word austerity enters The hiring of civil servants and the first taxes introduced. Simple milk jugs. In the long term, MBS knows he needs And he can't do it alone. Mohamed Bin Salman's survival to create a modern country If he does not keep he will lose all legitimacy In autumn 2017, the prince organized before an audience He needs their money to develop infrastructures, Something of a revolution in Saudi Arabia, as the kingdom Please welcome to the stage his royal highness, prince His plan is called Vision 2030. 2030, as the expected end - You have foreigners, foreign what do you need most - All the factors are here to create something big Thanks to unique opportunities and to this practically we want to grow and expand, and create a new way of living. To attract investors, he offers them a series of The world's largest expanse of solar A tourist city aiming to attract A giant industrial city. And Neom, city of the future a hundred times the size of Paris, populated partly by robots. - We only want to work with dreamers. This place is not made for but for dreamers who want But investors are anything Tens of millions spent or promotional films leave them It was good, but a bit unrealistic. Saudis tend to stage big events with all sorts of VIPs. But in the end, not much Vision 2030 is at the beginning written by western consulting firms, at the request of MBS and When you read it, in fact, you see who know very little about MBS is fascinated by He thinks it is the solution So, there is a fascination that Western consulting firms And who, in turn, are raising in advising Saudi Arabia. And he hangs on their every word. To finance his economic projects, he has the option of selling Aramco, the oil company with a brand- Its partial privatization could to the kingdom's treasury. But even this prospect inspires As Bertrand Besancenot notes, who left diplomacy to advise Implementation, everyone is aware, And you can see that clearly. On the guarantees that will be given, So we note that today, business largely in expectation. Westerners want time. But patience is not one of - There will be a gym next It's one of a kind! And here, a museum housing These reforms are stalling, And the state's treasury is To replenish, MBS has In October 2017, he had confined in a palace among the wealthiest and Accused of corruption, they are forced to give up part MBS thus brings 100 billion dollars But this extraordinary purge that he needs to seduce. So the lengthy detention of Prince - This is my night Pepsi. Wealthiest man in the country, shareholder of Disney, Apple he eventually surrenders part of his Prince Al Waleed was one of It was quite shocking because Obviously something was changing. It was an original way of dealing enrichment of the elites. One day someone told me I said yes, but the country can We had too many centers of power and each one was very Ali Shihabi is referring to the for half a billion, plus the most expensive house And the most expensive painting, in November 2017. The young prince strives to modernize but at the service of his power and under his total control. While he grants his subjects he doesn't tolerate any Where are the arrested women Ask yourself the question. The people must have the power. This academic will be imprisoned, like several leading feminists, demanding more than The political climate is very bleak, as never since the foundation We have never had so many He had people arrested, reduced But during this period of big change, To do that, you have to come up and say, I'm going to do It is like that, and not otherwise. Because if you let go you may lose control. The best solution is enlightened But it's an art, not an exact Art that can be a bit rough when despotism, however enlightened, In the fall of 2017, overnight, MBS ordered a land and air blockade He blames them for supporting the Muslim Brotherhood, to converse with Iran, and to give voice on its channel Al Jazeera, to its opponents, like here, a certain Jamal Khashoggi. Jamal, you've compared MBS to Putin, to Iran Supreme leader You said he's creating &quot;an I still see him as a reformer, but he is gathering all power within The embargo did not make an MBS advisor goes up to suggest to dig a canal that would turn Shortly after, MBS kidnapped The Lebanese Saad Hariri, who is is invited to a picnic in the desert, arrested, and forced to resign from Riyadh. MBS accuses him of being too lenient Faced with the global outcry, the prince accepted the mediation traditional protector of Lebanon. MBS had put himself in a trap, Macron stays for three hours, because, I quote, the advisor to Elysee who called me, Emmanuel Macron explained to the relations between Arabia Understandably, Mohamed bin Salman's President Macron argued that it was not in anybody's interest and tarnishes Saudi Arabia's image The prince ends up releasing Saad to Lebanon, as compensation. Everybody makes mistakes. If you don't try anything, Acting quickly, doing a lot of things can lead to mistakes. In the end, the Hariri story had It was just bad publicity. These mistakes, these expeditious to these projects that are crucial for So, in the spring of 2018, the prince for Westerners. He feels the need for this, because in order to succeed in his project, it needs massive support He will meet not only businessmen, but also cultural elites, etc. For its promotion, MBS has the world's largest employs the largest as well as an army of lobbyists. This opens many doors. His tour is worthy of a rock star. In three weeks in the United States, he visits Silicon Valley, Hollywood, meeting bishops and rabbis, former American presidents, visit the Louvre, and ends with a gala by His image of a young crown prince, who is transforming his country, who wants to be an ally of the West, made him naturally attractive. Ladies and gentlemen, the man that He owes his image not only to Your words speak for me. I'm very glad to be here with you. But also primarily to his reforms I represent change: the integration of the men For Westerners, the women's as important as it is right now. By investing in a matter that to be dear to Westerners, The Saudis can imagine it'll make you forget And indeed, documentaries on women. The end of the driving ban has Mohammed bin Salman has and it has benefited a few very He was hailed as someone Everyone had some kind of fever It's called Saudi Arabia's You did meet MBS, tell us about it. I saw things in Saudi Arabia I've People wanted to believe this idea of an ambitious open-minded, in a country western democratic values. He said everything he needed and seemed to be going in We promote peace We are opposed to anything I am of a positive nature. It was a great story. In this country, a lot of people MBS hopes that its economic For the time being, he is still the 12 billion weapons, the price of its protection That's peanuts for you. As for France, whose country is he settles for a check with a bonus. With Donald Trump, France is So there was a small reward, It's that we gave France on the Al-Houla site, a Nabatean But We haven't been allies with to do cultural things, because the cultural, in Saudi Arabia, Before coming to France, meeting the Bush, father and son. They knew I was coming to Paris so they gave me barbecue sauce in case I don't like We will see if I use it today. Bon appetit! We exchanged WhatsApp's. He considers that he has indeed, is clear, that was not that he could acquire it This is really what emerged from the with the Prince, in fact, How could the prince not have the and to be able to rule Mohammed bin Salman is surrounded At the same time as they are doing they are also the closest advisors, MBS uses them to intimidate to be a threat to him. Increased repression, the doubling in power, like that of these teens the abductions of opponents elicit no reaction from He has been given a green card. He was allowed to get out of all regional and international. There was one exception, Both states have expressed Well, Mohammed bin Salman He expelled the Canadian ambassador. This kind of behavior has intimidated Of course, voices are being raised. Give women more rights. The right to happiness and Fighting corruption, But he is also maintaining of a repressive system. Actually, he is expanding at that. He doesn't need to do that. There is no opposition to him. Jamal Khashoggi is a former He later became an opponent, Traitor as he is linked to For the past months, he to writing editorials Jamal Khashoggi knew a lot about it. He could contradict Mohammed bin The Saudis are being silenced. Things are not transparent, and for reforms in Saudi Arabia. The fact that Khashoggi chose annoyed Mohammed bin Salman, who was spending millions of dollars in a lobby and in a think tank, Everything can be bought. Khashoggi is offered an advisor He refuses. On 2 October 2018, someone close to MBS assured him to the Saudi consulate in Istanbul, where he must sign documents Coming from Riyadh, including MBS's personal bodyguard, Kills him, then dismembers Using a consulate in a foreign so out of the ordinary, that I was stunned at first. Then there was a lot of Some of them here were his friends Jamal, God bless him, was clear-cut political opinions. In the context of relations between we use their dissidents, There, our security services It was incompetence. It proved to be a disaster Unfortunately, these things happen. The real turning point came when we were the first to reveal Based on their sources, intelligence services estimated that Mohammed bin Salman This murder shocked the world A leader other than him would not Two weeks later, who shows his trust in him, MBS extends its condolences and compensates him dearly. The prince response was to announce of uncontrolled elements. This heinous crime cannot Some people are trying to exploit to turn Saudi Arabia and Turkiye To these people, I address this you will not achieve your goals as long as there is a king and a crown prince called I would like to add, Saad Hariri is here for two days, I am free! On the stage of his annual If MBS is joking so kindly, it is because he knows he has Trump's America. To be sure, he was able to send In a text message, MBS wrote to me that in the way the West blamed it, that he could look for other allies that is to say in China and Russia. Did he tell you that? Yes. Obviously, this message was He wanted me to let it be known that At the G20, the meeting of world leaders MBS attaches the acts to the SMS, openly. Westerners cannot afford to lose And he sent a second message. People need to understand Frankly, the stability of Saudi is 100 times bigger than This is one tragedy as it happens The stability of the country What he makes clear, is that if he fails to reform it could be chaos in an already His messages are well received. The condemnation of his allies and his personal responsibility was never officially questioned. I saw and heard the accusations, and that shocked me. Although I didn't know him well, he didn't look like the man But the State Department and we have received reports, we are in line with what I asked Emmanuel Macron what "I have high expectations of It was three months after the - I am worried... - yes, yes. - I told you. You never listen to me. - No, of course. - Because I told you so. High expectations, however, real politics has since done And France, sooner or later, will send its Foreign Minister because of the economic Westerners are forced to deal This is the price of real politics. But Mohammed bin Salman is also a of their venality, of their loss of influence And him, how long will this tightrope To survive, he is doomed to succeed. But in his kingdom, the numerous opponents or Islamists, are waiting Outside too, in September 2019, the Iranian rival has struck at without his hard-won armaments Against Iran, the Saudis are more Still more bogged down in Yemen, unable to turn back their major That's the whole paradox of He draws missiles onto its ground, as well as music stars. He wants to embody modernity, but must live cloistered, like a tyrant of ancient times. He is worried about his safety. Someone like him is likely to be His protective system is very He even has drippers at his service. His food is cooked, annealed, His security is strong. Unless there is an assassination he will be the next king, and he will rule for a very When his father dies, he will becoming then, maybe for several decades, a well-known figure in our world.