I've made a lot of setup upgrades some of them were just aesthetic others actually mattered but this is how my first setup used to look like so if I had to build a setup from scratch these are the 10 products I'd focus on starting with something I don't think enough people appreciate or even know about a mouse with an infinite scroll wheel here's why I think it's a game changer First, it lets you remove the steps on a I like it because it makes navigating your PC so much rather than multiple individual scrolls it's extremely convenient and useful as it ends up every time you scroll you save a few seconds and if you do that 100 times a day, it adds up but it's only available in select mice such as these ones the second upgrade on the list solved and it's this thing over here the Deltahub Carpio, here's why: I don't touch much grass... I'm always on my setup so I had a gradual increase in wrist pain which forced me to that's why 5 years ago I started using this wrist rest and it changed how I use my mouse instead of moving my wrist every time, because the PTFE feet on the Carpio Glide easily this meant that now I'm putting less strain on my wrist and on top of that, it lets you rest your hand in which also makes a significant difference just as much as the third upgrade on the list because it makes your setup look better improves desk ergonomics, and is quite affordable and they are... Monitor Arms! here's why you should consider one: first, it makes your setup look way cleaner and spacious because you don't have a monitor stand on your desk anymore occupying valuable desk space and second, it improves desk ergonomics because it lets you easily adjust your monitor to the perfect height which is having the monitor's top bezel at your eye level have you realized that it's much more comfortable if your eyes are at the same height as the monitor's top bezel you can comfortably see the entire screen which is a terrible idea if you sit on your desk and you have your neck bent upwards or downwards by the way, a free option would be to just stack boxes and it still looks good if you get a bit creative the fourth upgrade made my life so much easier and that's to get a second monitor I always have multiple tabs open and with a second screen I can have everything open at once rather than it's both great for productivity and procrastinating IT'S A FREE TECH TIP! the fifth upgrade makes a lot of sense but Linus hates it for some reason and it's a Monitor Screen Bar! Let me explain... at first glance, it looks counterintuitive to shine but that's not what's happening the light is angled so it hits your desk while it greatly alleviates I stream while working late lamps can help but screen bars: and are more convenient... and also, look great in photos that's a big upside the only downside is that during summer I kill one... I kill one... and there's nothing I can do about that the upgrade is for the sacrilegious people out there you know who you are :) this is all you need to do Step 1: Buy any cable management tray such Step 2: Install it under your desk Step 3: Shove all the cable in there and quick and easy I like the out of sight out of mind approach as long as you don't see it, for me, it's well enough managed lol by the way, NEVER use double-sided tape, ONLY screws I've tried to tape things many times in the past because they always end up falling I have velcroed a net here... that way I can put things here Pro Tip! Consider getting an under-desk drawer so you don't have stuff on your desk all the time by the way, if you're finding this video valuable, the 7th upgrade you need to try is completely free and it's to find a clean and minimal wallpaper you like here's why: I like using simple and minimal wallpapers because they make everything look less cluttered it's the same concept as working in a clean one that's an absolute mess... the first one is nice and pleasing to look at and the second one makes my brain hurt I often use wallpapers from but I stick with ones with less movement so it's not so your face and a bit more chill... and a free option I use is Unsplash.com where there's a huge library of professional photos there are only 3 things left on the list and for some reason, no one or at least, nobody that I know of talks about the last one but before that, this is the 8th upgrade you need to consider Standing Desks! they are EXPENSIVE and the broke college student in me but one day a company offered to IT'S FREE REAL STATE! it's been 4 years since I started using this standing desk and First: Ergonomics most people don't pay enough attention to desk ergonomics or they can't afford to, which is also reality... me 5 years ago... standing desks made a lot of sense once I got one as it's extremely easy and convenient to set with the push of a single button also being able to work standing is a nice feature to have even if you have the most comfortable chair Second: Convenience if I'm doing cable management, cleaning, or moving stuff around being able to move the desk out of the way awesome! I love that! I would totally buy another one if my desk suddenly exploded Pro Tip! avoid this mistake I made when choosing a tabletop consider picking one with plenty of depth it's often overlooked but it makes a huge difference in how much stuff you can fit on your desk and in ergonomics with a deeper tabletop, you can comfortably rest your place your monitors further away if needed and have more space to work with in general the problem I have now with my desk is that this is as far as it gets and it's a bit too close because the desk is not deep enough on top of that, I like to use a thick desk pad so I'm not resting my hands on hardwood stacking two on top of each other works even better :) the... ninth... ninth upgrade is the most important one you might have noticed that I centered my message mainly around ergonomics rather than aesthetics or anything else Aesthetic upgrades and things like fancy mechanical keyboards are the obvious things everyone likes and sees but what matters in building an actually really GOOD workspace is ergonomics and a chair is something you're going to use all the time I'm using it right now :) so you might as well put some proper thought into it and get a comfortable chair that won't like back pain... neck pain... I sound like an old man kind of pain~~ you don't even need to buy a super expensive one for it to be really good I'd recommend you check out Ahnestly and BTODtv they are the chair experts on YouTube and I've been using a SIHOO M90D I find it even more comfortable than most Herman Miller chairs which are the best of the best according to a lot of I went to try them at a store and they are incredibly well-built but I found the seat cushion on this SIHOO chair and this is 1/10th of the price... overall it's a really solid chair and I like it, REMEMBER! you should always try a chair and see my body is not the same as yours so, try to get one with an easy return policy, sit for at least 10 minutes, or 20, or 30 minutes and last but not least... this is the lifesaver that keeps my setup running SAFELY: and that's a UPS which stands for uninterrupted power supply in simple terms, it's basically a battery bank which happens quite a lot at my house I already had a motherboard on my PC die from this and I'm not going through that ever again :') whenever I hear the circuit breaker go: and the power is still fine it's just a HUGE LIFESAVER! SUBSCRIBE if you found this helpful and maybe SEE YOU NEXT TIME :)