I arrive to this place with scepticism. It's known for its multi sensory experience high concept dishes, and one of the most expensive restaurants Just a big song and dance to take people's Or is there really something behind it? Join us as we travel to Denmark and pull back at Alchemist. We're here in Refs-hal-ooven, a part of Copenhagen that was once a famous Around here somewhere is the restaurant foodies I know Copenhagen is one of the world's but this looks like a good place to get robbed. We find the enormous building that looks like Now, we are looking for massive bronze doors I think that's them. By pure chance we meet two guys who work at Lars composes the music and sound effects. and Jon is Creative Director. Wait, are we going to a restaurant or the There are no handles on the door. Thankfully it opens on its own. We are welcomed into the lobby and given a The lobby is a bit strange but the kombucha The host asks us if we are ready for what's He gives us fair warning that Alchemist will There are 5 acts, each in a different room, As he opens it, he says that this part of What the hell is going on? Lots of big mirrors and deep questions. And this lady who serves our first amuse bouche a black seaweed wafer with raspberry and caramel. We are left chew on that and a quote by Edith the first woman to win a Pulitzer. Suddenly, we are in the lounge. This is my kind of place. Look at that wine tower. 8 meters and more than ten thousand bottles. They have pretty much any wine you can dream It's breathtaking. Then there is the window into a different It's the research and development kitchen. The wall is filled with jars of ingredients The designers had to use fifteen hundred lights It looks like something from a Wes Anderson Time for a welcome shot. This is the daisy, Denmark's national flower. Made into the form of a cocktail. It has a nice orange flavor with bits of frozen This is wine director and our sommelier for She is kind and cheerful and really knows I like her already. She even lets me step into her world. It's three storeys of heaven. Alchemist is an official Ambassador of Krug, which means they have enough to fill a small I like the sound of that. Nina and I talk vintage Krug. After we share stories about the ones we tried We are back to the table. Thats when Nina does something extraordinary. She changes my wine pairing. She takes out the Krug 2002 which I've tried And she puts in a special vintage. The 1998 delayed release. The final year before Krug was bought by Louis This was a small thing for Nina but it meant And that made it taste even better. She shows me the interactive drink menu. I feel like the captain of the of the U.S.S. Enterprise. For drinks, you can choose a pairing, and there are lots of options. There is a non-alcoholic pairing and a mixed The Exhibita Pairing includes wine, house and two tea services for 375 euro. And then, wine. Alchemist has three levels. Essential, Amplified and Exclusive ranging from 240 to 1100 euro. I go for the last one, and Nina tells me she Our first amuse bouche is called Smokey Ball It's puffed gluten filled with smoke and When I bite into it, the aroma hits my nose Hard to say more except that it was brilliant. I'm still wondering how they got the smoke when who sits down beside me? Chef Rasmus Munk. He's a small-town boy. Son of a trucker and a nurse. Whose only restaurant experience growing up He stumbles into cooking and after a few years, Soon, he is head chef. And he is only 22. One Christmas, he volunteers to cook for poor Nothing fancy, just traditional food. He is touched when he sees how moved they Far more than his usual customers. He is so disturbed by this, he quits fine He realizes that he wants to do more than He wants to make an impact. He opens a 15 seat restaurant in Oosterbrew. and calls it Alchemist. One of his early dishes turns many heads and It's lamb's heart, served with a "blood Under the plate is a brochure that asks. Have you signed up for organ donation? Fifteen hundred people sign up. It gets Chef Munk a ton of press. At this point he knows... he is on to something. A few years later, Rasmus is ready to expand. He raises 20 million and opens Alchemist 2.0 It has 52 seats and a whole lot of technology. Within 7 months, he has 2 michelin stars. I can't help but notice Rasmus has a little It's our next amuse bouche. They raise the butterflies in-house and freeze Under it is cheese and a candy leaf. With this dish, Rasmus brings a new source 4 to 5 times more than beef. How many butterflies equals one steak I wonder. But you know what? It wasn't bad at all. Crispy, but the butterfly really didn't Our next impression is The Omelet. After years of traveling and hundreds of bad Chef Munk set out to make the perfect one. It's cooked egg yolk filled with more egg Then it's heated to 52 degrees. We are told that's the sweet spot. But the flavor is anything but sweet. It's topped with paper-thin lardo and black It's the perfect temperature and texture Chasing perfection. The best egg dish ever. When you think of the word Alchemist, what The book? A strange old scientist? In the golden age, alchemy was a mix of science Here in Copenhagen, Rasmus and the Alchemist not with gold and silver, but with food and When Nina feels we are ready, she leads us into the next room. This is called the Dome. Or as Nina puts it: The inside of Rasmuses head. He calls it Holistic Cuisine. It uses the word "impressions" rather And there are 50 of them. The aim is to give people a dining experience They're doing a damn good job of that so Rasmus says it was inspired by Copenhagen's So far things have been great, but seeing Is it all sizzle and no steak? Or is there a real experience waiting for This is called... It takes inspiration from George Orwell's It makes look this issue straight in the eye At the bottom, pork, pickles, Chanterelle and on top is caviar and jelly made from the codfish. Delicious dish and an eye-popping presentation As we soon learn, not all the impressions This next one is a drink. It's called cheers. Our server explains that in a few seconds, and we should all cheers together. The lights go off, but our glasses are glowing. Cheers! We are distant from each other, but still All 52 of us. The next wine makes me do a double take. Earlier, when we were touring the wine cellar, I noticed the 2010 Musigny Grand Cru. I pointed out to my wife that 2010 was a great And can you guess what magically showed up That's right. The 2010 Musigny. Coincidence? I don't think so. It's paired with an impression called the This is made of silicone, and it's a replica On top is pickled vegetables, edible flowers I am supposed to suck and lick it off. This is a little awkward! After I got in there, it was actually fun. And gave us more than a few laughs. It might seem absurd, but this one really how important delivery is when we are talking The same way a glass can change the taste Drinking it from a professional glass is a experience than spraying it straight into your mouth. The stuff on the tongue has bold, well-rounded and is the weirdest presentation of the evening. And maybe the year. That is exactly what Rasmus hopes his impressions In interviews he talks about the theater and In fact, this building was once a workshop Rasmus says the key to creating something Try everything and keep what sticks. This is plastic fantastic. Yes it's 100% edible. It brings our awareness to the oceans. Where there are plastic islands 2 kilometers It may be hard to believe, but everything The texture is really strange at first, but then the "plastic" quickly melts and leaves The flavors and the message here are both There is much more to Chef Rasmus Munk than During Covid he took the lead of a project to help feed the homeless in Copenhagen. Working with the city council and using social he used his four empty kitchens to make healthy He is not just raising awareness, he is leading Our next impression is called Food For Thought. This is lamb brain. It is made into milk first, and served on a deep fried brioche The idea here is to think about the parts In many places, people eat nothing but the Rasmus is trying to change that. My family was not the richest in the Hungarian in fact, we were quite poor. When I was growing up, we didn't waste a We ate the animal from the nose to tail. So this dish wasn't shock for me, because It was shock because this was the first time, I ate lamb brain. Although, I clearly see the importance of Taking this idea one step further is Rasmuses It's the new global research center focused They will develop new food and do something to nomalize eating things To build it, Rasmus raised 1.3 and bought a one thousand square meter space One impression draws our attention to animal It's called Burned Out Chicken. Here we have a chicken wing. Chained to a cage. The bone is removed and it's filled with This impression literally forces us to come We are told not to eat the chain. Perhaps is absolutely unforgettable. Here these classic flavors fit together perfectly. The last wine in the pairing is a really important A dessert wine from producer Arnaud de Villeneuve It's crazy to think that this was bottled And its still absolutely delicious. Whenever I have a wine like this I feel really and a whole generation of people no longer There is so much more I could show you, but You'll have to check it out for yourself. The full menu with 50 impressions is the only It goes for 650 euros. After finishing our impressions in the dome, Nina takes us to the next room. But first, she says, take off your shoes. This is The Freedom Room. It's like a palette cleanser for the mind. No message, no themes just play. After the dome, we get an inside look at the Each column is a table, and here they put key information about which as well as any allergies. They can also track what will happen in the so the service team doesn't interrupt any After 4 hours of dining and drama, we are The low chairs and soft light make a great to talk about our experience over the last Our total for today is 3600 euro for two people. So, is this place a big song and dance to If they blindfolded me on the way in, and I ate my meal in the dark, I would still say: Unbelievable. Take away the theatre actors take away the dome take away the fancy production and you still have one of the best restaurants There are lots of restaurants out there where Here, both are wonderful. One more amazing thing about this place is With 50 courses and 52 people to serve, that's 2500 impressions pumped out by the team. Night after night. average stay is around six hours. That is unbelievable. It's all thanks to Chef Rasmus Munk, his and an arsenal of cooking technology. From fire and smoke to molecules and modern Also worth a special mention is Wine Director who did more than just select great wines. She listened. And modified the pairing to give me wines It was really memorable, one of the best I've ever had. But still, the Michelin guide gives Alchemist Why not three? I don't know how the inspectors make their but I do know what three stars means. Exceptional cuisine worth a special journey. I've been to hundreds of fine dining restaurants and I can say that the food It's something I've never had before and But is it worth a special journey? If we could ask the thousands Or those lucky enough to get a reservation I'm quite sure the answer would be: Yes. And that does it for this episode. Thank you for joining me! If you like this video, hit subscribe! See you next time!