TARA NARRATING: Previously -Sorry, Bob. -Dad's pulling me out -I think I have a boyfriend. -Principal of the -Natasha Willis. [applause] -Darling. I've been looking for -Hi, Mom. -They won't let me dance. There's no way I'll You'll have to promise me -Abigail. -Someone get the doctor. [music playing] THE WHITE RHINOS: [singing] Take a breath, close your eyes, lead the way tonight. This is my chance, this chance to feel alive. TARA NARRATING: Lately, all I of different body parts. I'm not a person. I'm a hip that needs to be be better supported. And so I've started playing this my reflection by surprise to staring back at me. -Are you sure, Mrs. Armstrong? I know. I know. But you know, it's the end of feeling really worried OK. OK. Thank you. Bye-bye. Thanks for nothing. -She still won't put -Nope. TARA NARRATING: I think family -Hey! TARA NARRATING: --because they And you could always count -Hey, darling. How are you? -Good. -Hi. -Darling. -Hi, Mom. -Is Dad coming? -He got stuck at the surgery. -Um, [inaudible] is probably should be saying that. -Yes, that's right. -Is that chocolate? [sigh] TARA NARRATING: This is away from my parents. -Dad! -I wonder what they'll see. -Aah-ha-ha-ha. TARA NARRATING: I wonder how -You look gorgeous. -I can't believe you -Your father has been -Ah, I might have mentioned -Well, you know it's just It's not actually -Oh, Mom. Mom. Dad. This is Ethan. -Hi. -Hello. Crazy. You two have the exact -Well, it's delightful -Neil. I've heard so much about you. -Mr. Webster. Funny. I didn't hear about you -Well, I don't want to interrupt See you at lunch? -What? -I'm almost 16, Dad. -And how old's he? -She's allowed to have -I don't recall giving -Dad. What happened to your tooth? -Cracked a belt. -For weeks, I've been asking But do you think he'll -I'm not entering any beauty It can wait until we -I love you, but you cannot open here. -[sigh] -I'm serious. People are going to [laughter] [music playing] -Trina. Interesting what happens I'm afraid even without that still looks sloppy. Yes. You're actually starting [applause] -Go Tara, Banana! -Neil. -Shh. -Fan club? -It was meant to be a fair non-dancing holiday Now she's got us doing some interview thing. I swear, all this good behavior -Lamington? -Uh, T, they're bonding. -It's not necessarily -And she insisted all summer I'm talking to Kat's mom about saw, remember? -Not completely. -Lamington? -She would scream if I tried to and demanded that we all [laughter] -We've an appointment in town your acting classes. -Uh-huh. -I'm glad the city's put out -Hmm. -Your father wanted to friends out to tea. Do you think that's all right? -Yeah, it sounds great. -You wouldn't know it today, horrible lately, just -Interesting to hear rain -Oh, Dad. I don't think he meant -Roll, Evan? Where do you think the wheat -I hadn't really thought -You think it just magically -Uh, I think we left the -We could order drinks here. I mean, we're sitting -I don't think anyone's going -We know all about -Imagine what he could do -Huh. -Hey! What do you think Talking to you, son. -You've, uh, got a leak. -Is that right? Weren't you just dancing -So? -So I didn't think a interested in cars. -Didn't think a ballet own something decent. [music playing] -No, your folks are great. I mean, your dad obviously wants minor detail. -You think you have problems? -If I didn't relish the image would tell her to stuff -Mom-- -Hi, Mom! It's good to see you. -Tara, I wanted to invite parents for dinner tonight. Boncafe? -Oh, thanks but, um-- -I think they wanted But we can always -Well, I did, but, but then they're busy. -Shame. Still, you should come. Let's go comb through We have a meeting with -Save me. -Hey, you didn't have to ditch -Trust me. Dad would complain about the would go on about how It's just easier if I do -Tomorrow? You guys don't mind, do you? That I'm cancelling? -No, princess. I had my heart set on the too tired-- -Tara! -Yeah, we really, really are. Thanks, Dad. [music playing] -Abigail? -You look nice, darling. -We decided to go It was a spur-of-the-moment Oh. I can do that. -Our meeting today We're trying to refinance Uh, they're not taking -So, what? Are we losing the farm? -Oh, no. Look if all prices go up, everything's tight. -I can get a job. On Sundays, I think, or-- -I don't know if that's going -Then what can I do to help? -Look, I'd be lying you here wasn't expensive. And with the boarding fees, leotards, it all adds up. -No. -Let me finish. -No, Mom. This is me. This is my dream. -I know it is, sweetie. And I want you to have that. But I'm just, I'm just trying dreams right now. Look, would it, would it world if you deferred Just until we can -What does Dad say? -Your dad doesn't want He's so proud of you. It's all he talks about. -You can't ask me -I'm not asking you to do consider it. -You look like sisters. -I know. Natasha, when I saw you dance had a 15-year old at home. -So, Kat, did you see your -Yeah, yeah, I-I-I-I I love watching her. -It just amazes me, Natasha, Lars Peterson told me that the European gala. -Uh-- Let's reset, yeah? Let's reset. I mean, that's practically You can't tell me that you and clean the bathrooms. -No, but nothing's -Sorry. Silly me. Uh, when's the gala again? -Um, it's in a couple You'll be going to see your -Yeah. Yes. Luckily for me, it's right as my school holidays. Mom always makes sure that I remember once in Singapore caught up in the tour that she flew out of the country, was back in the hotel room. Ha, ha! Let's reset, yeah? [music playing] -Thank you, Sammy. We now have Tara Webster doing Duckling.&quot; -His loss. You were amazing. -Kill it. Where's the duck? [music playing] [applause] -Was it gruesome? -What? -Oh, I just skipped my solo. I all of a sudden couldn't -No one said anything. -Well, I need some retail see the bill, so feel little baby a workout? -You know what, Kat? A lot of people would give what you have. It's getting really old how you -Tara Banana! Come help your old dad. The city boy does not know how -I'll just be back in a sec. [music playing] -Hey. It's clean. Your dad was telling me Sounds-- -It is. They're actually ugly, All those ballets going on about but up close-- -Weird necks. MRS. LIEBERMAN (OFFSCREEN): sensational, wasn't it, Ari? ARI (OFFSCREEN): The last -He was never going -He was absolutely It's just going to -Ball park estimate? [music playing] -Bye. -Bye. -Mrs. Armstrong. Yes. No, I know that she's resting, to take any phone calls, tell her that I-- that I called. [SOUND OF PEBBLES [music playing] -Hi. What are you watching? Mighty good choice. -I have to-- -Shh. It's a good movie. -It's not a steakhouse, but with not be such a bad thing. -Dad, this is fine. Do you know how much they -It's not like home, is it? -Actually, that's something I've you guys about. Having you here has kind of made missing everything. -What? You love it here. What's the matter, princess? Is someone giving -No, Neil, she-- -It's something like that. I guess I just love the But being here all the And if I go home, it's not like all together. I can still do it a couple -I'm not sure what to -Tough. Because I've made up my mind. -Miss Raine? -Tara. I was going to look I have something I said I'd give them back to -Thank you for everything. But I've come to let you know next semester. I'm going home. Some things just are -Than ballet? Well, if you believe that, you -I know I need this place to But I don't really And if I truly love it, And besides, I don't think I'd didn't like myself Thank you. [music playing] -So the holiday's off, but on are going to erect a statute You know we can keep our stuff -You guys can come stay -Well, I think it's crap. -Yeah, uh, news flash. We all do. -Correction. I think Tara's crap. -What? -You told me to stand And now he's probably not going which is fine because So why is it so difficult KAT (OFFSCREEN): Sammy! Sammy, come back. -Just leave him. -Hey, results just got posted. -It's not like we have anything -Hey, you did good, you know. -Yeah? -Yeah. I'd give up this place for -Come with me. -How'd you do? -Who cares? Look. You got it. [music playing] -You got your scholarship. -All fees, boarding expenses. It's not a gift. You'll earn every cent. Every week, you'll be doing working harder than you -What? You're telling me I can stay. -It would seem so. -I can stay. -Yes! [laughter] [chatter] -All this for three weeks? -You guys don't mind it's I know you miss me. -Mind? I'm putting the billiards Don't ruin it. -Tara. Honey, you know I never -First grown-up thing -Help! The women are blubbering. [laughter] -Hey, Sean. SEAN (OFFSCREEN): Yo. -Can you take a picture of us? -Yeah. All right. OK, are you ready? OK, big smiles. And three, two, cheese. There you go. Hey, see you next semester. -Thank you. -Can we borrow her for just It's an emergency. -Sure. KAT (OFFSCREEN): It your going-away present. SAMMY (OFFSCREEN): I wanted [laughter] -This can't be safe. -The trick is, Sammy, Everybody knows that. TARA NARRATING: Families are parents grew up. It's like there are no It doesn't matter what When someone's family, They're the people who turn up hold your hand without The thing about family matter where you are. When you're with them, I have two now. Two families, two homes. And I know what it's like to [music playing]