While working at Control Data Corporation, computer designer Seymour Cray was once &gt; Five-year goal: Build the &gt; One-year goal: One-fifth of the above. Seymour Cray literally only wanted In today's video, we look back at a genius's ## Beginnings Seymour Cray Jr. was born in the Wisconsin in 1925, the son of a civil The elder Cray fostered in his son a love for did electrician work for his junior After serving in the army as an electrician, Cray went to university on the GI Bill Minnesota with a bachelors in electrical Then in 1950, he joined a small company called Engineering Research Associates ## ERA During World War II, the US Navy This division was known as the Activity - Washington or CSAW. And powerful machines to break Axis naval At the War's end, people realized that codes - Soviet codes this time - but with budget So the Navy worked with an investment for-profit company that would hire and employ ERA's people worked largely in secret out of an old glider factory. Their first products But the team quickly began moving towards emerging technologies like magnetic drum memory. One of the first such products was a commercialized version of a device You can say that Minnesota in the 50s was Thanks to the strong military presence, ## Working With Cray Despite being just 25 years old, Cray Cray was quiet, but had the unshakable was wrong. He had incredible focus and rigid with a gift for understanding Thus, Cray was challenged to produce the ERA 1103. The control system breaks down the Control system design required front-to-back had to coordinate all those resources Cray did the work, and quickly rose Like another legend of the times, An Wang of Wang difficult to work for. Cray preferred to work If someone wasn't doing it right, or was taking They called it &quot;being scrayed&quot;. But despite being very quiet, Seymour treated respected. Just a bit eccentric and enigmatic - ## Rand In December 1951, president and sold ERA to the computer company Remington Rand. Parker didn't tell the employees at ERA about this And it angered key workers like William Norris, who joined early and rose Remington Rand was a typewriter and shaver Rand had already bought a The Eckert-Mauchly Computer Corporation. J. Presper Eckert and John Mauchly the first programmable digital computer. And then EDVAC, pioneering the that today underpins the Von Neumann architecture. Along the way, Eckert also created the first School Lectures, which helped popularize the Von And then UNIVAC I, a computer that some dude named Dwight Eisenhower would The world-famous Eckert and Mauchly had at ERA accepted the arrangement. business computer marketplace while ## Tensions Today, the computing needs of both by a general purpose computer. But in those Computers for business did simple and multiplying and with only 2 decimal be done at large scale, thousands of Scientific computing was different in with up to 20-30 decimal points munch on a problem for hours just The guys at Eckert-Mauchly in Minnesota guys as mere &quot;farmers&quot; who did Minnesota guys saw the Philadelphians making computers faster even if Things got worse in 1955 when Rand merged with The merger forced together the two formerly The tensions really flared between ERA, The aforementioned William Norris, said to the Philadelphia guys, &quot;You people When Sperry took over, its top management they were buying a market leader. That was be what IBM eventually became, but Not only in R&amp;D to build the machines, but leasing business back then. In 1957, enough was enough. Norris left Data Corporation, or CDC. a new company if it did not work then he and his family Norris invited a few of his ERA coworkers to come having seen the writing on the system categorize his project as ## Control Data a vague idea to make computers, No plant, no product, and little money. CDC IPO'ed. Like literally, they stood members of the public for a dollar each. The company got its first splash of publicity a sports columnist at the Minneapolis Tribune Minneapolis Lakers (what?!) - mentioned the Many prominent local investors one saying that they &quot;didn't have Decliners included a guy named Warren Buffett. he declined due to a lack of understanding. Years later, the $1 shares would be worth about company's 300 initial investors and created a ## The 1604 Cray was the most technical person at the to build scientific computers rather His reasoning was that their clientele - labs - cared less about marketing and client What they wanted was compute. Serious you can't just test-fire a nuclear weapon and even discounting the environmental issues So to study a detonation, we needed chain reactions - stepping through all detonation. That means the biggest Cray was convinced that he could build such using transistors. He went down to the local selling reject bipolar transistors for radios for These reject transistors sucked, outputting a weak signal. So Cray paired them up in with the second transistor amplifying the output with the right design, you can use substandard Over a year into the venture and with a deal with the US Navy for what would But now they have to build it at scale, Norris and other managers cut their salaries swiping transistor companies' free The CDC 1604 first hit the market in 1960, carrying a price tag of $990,000 or about it was the most powerful commercially-available ## Supercomputers It is about pushing the envelope in computing, bringing out a computer that leads was not alone in the market of producing UNIVAC released the Livermore Automatic year as the 1604's release. It helped hydrogen bomb and was the most powerful The LARC scared IBM so much STRETCH supercomputer - designed by the back the crown of the world's most powerful But the LARC and STRETCH products. UNIVAC only made 2 LARC units. Control Data turned the supercomputer into at that. The 1604 sold to the University of The company began to turn a profit, challenging stock went from $1 to $9. Now Norris had to keep ## A New Hope After the 1604, Cray and CDC Follow up on the 1604 and finally attack the would mean iterating on the 1604 architecture a very good and successful But Cray only wanted to build The scientific community had only started modeling - Finite Element Analysis, Finite Element Analysis involves splitting elements and running simulations based on breaking a car down into tiny shapes and using With Finite Element Analysis, the more steps you model and predict complex systems like the weather infinite need for compute. Cray wanted to He threatened to leave the company over this on splitting the two teams. One CDC Meanwhile, the 35-year old Cray and his team hometown of Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin. This new Cray and his team worked on a machine some 15 ## The CDC 6600 When Cray and his team sat they started off with something like the 1604. The 1604 was built with Ferrite magnetic cores for main memory and magnetic tape for they had germanium transistors. Everything was But as they worked on the 6600, Cray he sourced silicon planar transistors faster than germanium transistors, The rest of the 10-15x speed up goal though on the building-block approach. Each block had caused noise issues, but also limited input/output So Cray threw it all out and switched to called &quot;cordwood modules&quot;. The shorter wires repair and necessitated the replacement Another concept they implemented to do housekeeping functions or the task. Why should the &quot;main processor&quot; have The 6600 contained 11 individual computers each other - they only shared a central memory. peripherals, leaving the eleventh computer Additionally, the 6600 lived and breathed called an instruction set architecture thus also defining how software can control it. The 6600 simplified its ISA, ditching everything instance, instructions for handling large amounts users. This simplified instruction set allowed a bigger job to smaller ones that can be assigned CDC delivered its first 6600 The machine's incredible speed - three Chairman Thomas J. Watson Jr. &quot;34 people - including the janitor&quot; beat the answer of course was that IBM's architects could ## Discontent The splitting of the teams within but discontent continued to fester. Norris and other managers continued to build peripherals and software to accompany the Control Data also purchased a consumer finance their $3.4 billion of working capital to fund its seemed smart at the time - eventually backfired Over a hundred CDC 6600s were sold Energy Commission. But each cost $8 million or it limited the market to about But Seymour Cray felt this was a feature, names of each of his customers. Yet Control the belief that peripherals and services, Control Data followed up the CDC 6600 with fastest computer, five times faster than the of its predecessor, it sold poorly in part Then after that, we had the 8600. This discrete transistors. But Cray wanted which meant every wire had to be shorter than 2.5 Things got so dense that Cray couldn't figure out he decided to throw everything out and start again But this was 1971, and Control Data was lawsuit against IBM. Cash flow was running 10%. Unwilling to do that, he cut his own This did not solve the issue. In the before could not be done - they already Cray decided to leave and start ## Cray Research &amp; the Cray-1 million - 20% of which was his own The company's goal was to build the biggest It did not care for big revenues, nor did rather than manufacture. Like Star Trek, In a show of goodwill, Norris and Control and invested a quarter million dollars in the For his first computer, the Cray-1, Seymour Cray he decided to turn to a new Most CPUs of the time used scalar single data items like integers or So imagine the job of adding 1 and 1. A register from memory, load the second 1, add Count it up. This job used 4 instructions. So if we are summing up 2 sets of twenty numbers, that is 80 instructions that A vector processing machine single-dimension arrays of data: Vectors. So if we have those two vectors loading the two vectors into and storing the results vector into memory. Control Data knew about vector processing vector computer called the STAR-100. But the to live up to its promises. Control Data shipped Cray studied the STAR-100 and realized its bottlenecking the overall system performance. And second, the computer's vector processing from before. Before you can run the addition to load them both into the register. Same The problem was that this was taking too long. is compared to scalar processing if So Cray introduced &quot;vector registers&quot;, very fast intermediate memory systems that Seymour also decided to adopt integrated circuits and cut down on wiring, allowing the Cray-1 By then, ICs were roughly about 14 years old and choosing older technologies - &quot;a decade behind&quot; as But when it came to memory, Cray could and bought bipolar semiconductor memory chips had more density, and ate less power. The computer's clock cycle of 12.5 nanoseconds So every wire in the machine had And of course, you can't forget its iconic look. A circular shape to accommodate an added bit of flair to differentiate And it had cushions too. ## The Cray-1's Stir The Cray-1 made a huge stir upon its release in A hundred Cray-1s were sold to various like the National Center for Atmospheric It generated 150% revenue growth with another 50% growth a year after that. which is a lot for an $8 million IBM did not even try to compete. found itself thrown off its feet. They like the Cyber-205 - but they had gotten The company suffered large financial losses and eventually sold itself off CDC's most profitable business was Ticketron ## The Fruits of Success As I said, Seymour Cray wanted and to build it from a &quot;clean piece of paper&quot;. Even as the Cray-1 was in the Seymour started to shift his gaze towards with a clock speed some three to six Such a machine had obstacles. With that clock again bringing back the same heating To his dismay, Seymour could not focus business needed him. To fund early development, Cray Research IPO'ed its stock, which brought And a bit poetically, the company's success hand-wired and custom-made like some that took a year - the company had no choice From 1978 to 1980, the company grew from Cray Research employed over 5,000 people in ## The Same Dilemma Seymour originally pursued scientific own software. It let him just focus on hardware. But times had changed. Customers no longer every time. They wanted portability - it is why So Cray's customers were increasingly than a radically different Cray-2 all their software. It was the story of Eventually, Cray Research's management, dual approach once more. On one side, 1S - still a very powerful computer but not Meanwhile, Seymour Cray stepped down over to the CEO Rollwagen, and became an work on the Cray-2. He moved to Boulder, ## The Cray X-MP The Cray-2 eventually did come out in 1985, Famously, it had this massive liquid immersion an aquarium. Even so, memory latency caused Then to the surprise of many, Seymour's computer produced by a separate The X-MP team was led by a named Les Davis as well as a talented young Where the Cray-1 had a single CPU, the with four CPUs along with new solid state the X-MP was the world's fastest than the 1S - without the radical design It sold very well compared to the Cray-2. By sold as compared to the almost 200 units sold of ## New Pressures There were other changes. In the 1970s, Cray had But throughout the 1980s, new supercomputer woodwork. First over in Japan, where Japan's growing advantages in VLSI semiconductor Cray still dominated the market. In traditional supercomputers, but the Japanese In a similar vein, supercomputer nCUBE began exploring new approaches computing. The most prominent of which These systems coordinate many commercial billions of floating point operations being bought off the shelf meant This combined competition from the startups, the Japanese, and even old friends like Systems put a lot of pressure on Cray to ## Cray Leaves Cray Cray Research's unexpected success with Designer Steve Chen was featured as one of the next Seymour Cray, even. But unfortunately, the the MP line after the Y-MP spiraled beyond 64 processors, custom integrated circuits, the company was already invested machine the Cray-3 and the Y-MP products that needed money too. It had no So that year, Cray Research scaled back much heralded Steve Chen quit Cray Research and Supercomputer Systems took $150 IBM and other investors like Ford and In 1989, the company could no longer accommodate called Cray Computer Corporation or CCC in Research thusly would go onwards with the existing The Cray-3 would have used gallium arsenide faster than what was possible with silicon. It The Cray-3 soon fell behind, and in 1991, their orders because of cratering defense CCC could only sell one system before filing never materialized either. Seymour Cray's clean sheet of paper&quot; and building a &quot;big iron&quot; Seymour Cray formed a new company, SRC designs. But he then passed away in 1996 at the Cray Research was eventually sold to Silicon but is now part of Hewlett Packard ## Conclusion Advancing semiconductor technologies have made the In 2010, an electrical engineer to emulate the Cray-1A supercomputer using He even put it into a cute little Cray-1 package. It now sits in the Computer History Today's leading edge semiconductor makers his supercomputers. Thermal problems. memory retrieval. I am struck by the similarities. Unfortunately, the semiconductor industry and start anew with a fresh sheet of paper.