Silent Sitting 13 October 2021 Om Namaste. Welcome everyone, We know that many people are joining in celebration, a most auspicious celebration, on Papaji Jayanti today. And so, I'm very happy, very happy that we are joined from around the world today, at this point. And thank you for joining. Quite a number of you I can see, and welcome, welcome, welcome And for all of you, wherever you may be, May it be that you are not but in the living darshan of Papaji, whose grace is ever with us. And we are in gratitude to the Supreme Self by whose grace we are expressed as life, and those experiencing life, in the good fortune of being pointed to that Satguru within the heart of all beings. Here in Monte Sahaja, and, I feel, this has become not our belief, but verified through direct experience. So, out of this joy, out of the blessed auspicious good fortune to be so blessed and endowed with such grace, we come together today to celebrate, not the past, not the future, but in that which we call the timeless now. And I feel that each of you in the place where knowing and being are one. So, thank you for joining us with your presence in this space of harmony. And what we have come to recognise It is called Sahaja Nishta, above and beyond the systems, the categorisations through the mind But not running away, be very, very present as presence itself. So, thank you. Today, as we sit together, with the mind resting inside beyond imaginings, beyond visualisation, empty of superficial intentions, empty of any projections, or clinging to the temporary manifestations, beyond, beyond all of this, here in the now that never passes, we find ourself at the feet of the Lord Supreme. So, I consider ourself most blessed and share with as many as those whose hearts are open the continuing, to be the embodiment of that grace, beyond ego, beyond pride, beyond division, beyond imagination, That. This. Thank you. Wherever you may be, rest in this peace now. Jai Papaji! For all lovers, not admirers, but lovers, children of mighty Satguru, I welcome you today. For without Papaji, none of us would be here, not like this, presence, joy, confidence in the spirit of Truth. So we celebrate, also, We don't know what has happened if there are such things. We don't know what will take place But what we know is right now, here. We are available, beyond imagination, in the heart of awareness itself. This, our Master pointed out, and keeps pointing, through those who to be in the grace of the Self. Thank you. As I sit today, for this short time, whether speaking or not, my attention and Being rest in that silence together in this one space. From time to time, just in respect and gratitude Whatever may come, thank you, thank you. Om We will sit together for, perhaps, the duration of one burning incense stick, today. Om At the end of our time of sitting you will hear the bell again. And it only means that it is the closing of this session Throughout the day, we have, by grace, been able to put on some of Papaji's videos and other celebrations, here in Monte Sahaja. We hope you have the opportunity Thank you. Om [sound of the bell] Let us take this opportunity of leaving, just for now, everything aside. It is so possible! So free all the thoughts about ourself and life, our intentions, and our inner tensions; simply leave them aside. There is no force required for this. All thoughts of past or future, or even present, though they may swim up we will not engage with them. The invitation is this: leave everything. Even the very idea we have of ourself, everything we have learnt, all projections or expectations, No force. Why? Why? For many people, the phenomenal waking state, we often find that in contact with sense objects within the field of imagination, about time and memory, or the sense of future and projections, or the interpretation of even the present moment. But I want that you know, all this, whatever appears in form and in time, is simply clouds passing, and is witnessed It has always been like this. But our attention often swings out towards the things of the world. Nothing in the world is, by its nature, wrong. Whatever is formed out of the five elements All the objects we see, nature, the sky, the earth, feeling the wind, and water, and fire; all objects that appear through the mind, in themselves are innocent expressions They don't wish you harm. They are there. But, the attachments we feel inside the heart, to possess, or to manipulate, that bring in a sense of desires, we are all meant to experience of the personal sense of self, and to transcend them, because they do not lead to lasting happiness. We know this now. And I know that I am in the correct company to share these few pointers again. So, for this moment, leave everything, And even if some thought sensations it doesn't matter. It's not that they appear, but we don't think too highly of them. Keep your attention in the space Because, until we are willing and capable, to leave aside the things of time and change, to be aware of that space behind the facade of the mind and the sense of personal self, which are manifestations appearing inside the limitless field of pure awareness. By doing this, and how easy, what is required we find that if everything were taken aside, outside, for a moment, left aside, there remains This, which is immovable, beyond form, beyond change, beyond time, This, the very heart of awareness itself. And this, our Master pointed again and again. Keep your attention here. Discover the fruit of your abidance that this is a tree that bears fruit immediately. And the fruit of this tree is peace, wisdom, loving kindness and compassion, openness, and a natural confidence in the timeless, the everlasting and perfect Self, beyond the field This, when a human being can bear and be this silent emptiness, we are in the domain of the divine, in the presence of God, beyond the you and me, in the field of harmony. When? Now. Now. Rare, it seems, in the span of the waking state, do we find ourselves able to verify This alone is unchanging and real, immeasurable, beyond any categorisation, the very heart of awareness itself, that which gives life to life, that takes care of life; ever-present. Now that we turn our attention to verify and to be absorbed in its completeness, Not an imagined peace, but peace which is the very foundation Where the urge to plan futures, or to secure past subjective memories, does not molest your being. Here, in the now beyond time just Is. Not sustained by any human effort, the discovery within the heart. It is no one's possession. It's everywhere present, in every heart is shining the light of this world. We must also recognise, the field of maya is also within our being, where once we hold onto it will induce a state of sleep, even in the waking state. Be aware of this. Because the Self does not sleep. Nor is it awake in the phenomenal sense. Beyond all definitions, unreachable through the mind, yet choicelessly ever-present shines the Lord of the universe And I hope these words are not alien, not strangers to your heart and ears, but are confirming your authentic Self. This was, and is, Papaji's work in the world that he has imparted to each and every one of us. Simply discover. And honour your discovery, here, now, beyond the field of waiting and projecting, leaving all attachments aside, If you do this for one moment, you will find the eternal in this moment itself! May my words being spoken now in your presence not be accepted in the mind It is itself the evidence of the real, and beyond the words spoken. Beyond, not in terms of distance, but in subtlety, is our true nature. You are one with your Self. Anything other than this is only imagination. Thank you that we have this opportunity to be reminded, again and again, of That which Is, which alone Is. And not only to be reminded of, but to dissolve in, that this alone is substantial, that nothing can compare to the nectar, that radiates within You are This, beyond the categorizations of the world! Om Remember. Inquire. Verify. Know. Whatever is perceived in the mind, of whatever shape, nothing here is permanent. All are passing. Even the instrument of the senses and the body is also fleeting and passing. But all are passing in front of and within the presence of a witness the Self itself. Observe this. Know this. Be confirmed in this. It has always been so, but often it has not been recognised This is why imagination or mental study is not enough. What we know through the mind must combust into wordless knowing. We do not need to store up knowledge, but to digest and assimilate. By grace this is happening. Only the resistance of the imaginary self, creates the sense of distance, Know these to be imaginary. Paying attention to this space but the witness is untouched; Here shines peace, unfading peace and harmony, and joy, and confirmation of the spirit of Truth, the all-pervading Truth and silence. Again, I remind you, It is self-evident. Simply leave aside engagement, personal engagement, with the things of life, And come to notice that Even now, here, this is so evident. From where are you looking? As what are you looking? Even your very idea of self and this form is perceived in that consciousness, unbound. There's nothing to imagine. Only recognise the already-so-ness of What Is. You are not where you are by accident, It is our opportunity, our moment to verify. And the joy, the peace that emanate out of this knowing, The joy, not just hard work, but with a deep intention to find out. This intention, if it is there, even this is given by the grace of God. And what is the fruit of our inquiry? A deep silence that is there when actions are performed Even when thoughts come, we do not need to fight, because they can only appear They come and go. It is our joy in knowing this. Not just believing this, but proving this, verifying this unto ourself. Fully, fully imbibe this in the heart. For even if you could sit for a few moments, it will return to you as timeless existence. Om Being aware of time, you're beyond time. Being aware of forms, you're beyond form. Being aware of thought and sensations, see, this witness is beyond forms and sensation, beyond thought, beyond intention, beyond shape, beyond name. This is the field of imageless awareness itself. This is the inner language of God. Here you begin to experience the confirmation that the God-Self alone exists, unchangingly, imperishable, unbound. Where else can we know this? Where else and in what other way except within the very heart itself? Beyond, as I said before, beyond even belief. Belief is important, but belief must be transformed Should there be restlessness don't fight. It is only a mode of the mind. The awareness within which these are perceived, that is free of distractedness. It simply Is. Thank you. Let thoughts be replaced by peace. This peace comes by grace, not by effort. Any effort is only to prevent the attention towards the changeful, the temporary, just enough to be confirmed that is the Self. Blessed are we. What good fortune. What good fortune that this invitation awakens inside the heart, In the recognition of this, the power of this recognition, yes, has the scope and the power to bless every aspect of our expression Yet, you remain the unmoving. Not by trying not to move physically, When you are silent, this silence is not the fruit of some practice, it is effortless silence. Sometimes we imagine that Sometimes people even try to hold their breath; this is not the true silence. That limitless expanse but itself is untouched, know that to be Self. And the great news, we are This already! Now, only to confirm. Not just belief. Belief is important. Verification is the fruit of our endeavours. No one who is alive is here by your own effort. By the grace of God, by the grace of God the vital force as the breath in this body. Everything is happening by the grace of God. Have this attitude, and already it will take away the stress of trying to be. Love is your perfume. Joy is your perfume. Openness. Righteousness: your fragrance. Patience: your fragrance. Knowledge: your perfume. But the flower from which they all emanate, not with the senses or these eyes, Earlier than the mind, Do not just be in a state of waiting. The Self is not apart from you, to wait. It's not going to come, But only to remove the imaginary, and the Self is already here. This is the fruit of satsang. Have this attitude, Be further confirmed, in the hearing of this, the gift of God. How paradoxical that, nothing is lost, nothing is missing. Having all things available to the senses, nothing is missing. Abide in the Self. Abide in the Self. Even while, as it says in the Ribhu Gita, 'Abide in the Self in the world of names and forms'. We do not need to speak about it, lest the mind will boast, But be confirmed. Then your joy is unbound, your peace undisturbed and undisturbable. Grow in this inwardly, in this knowing. This is our gift in life to each other, to live in the Heart, as the Heart itself. I hope these words are not a stranger but only a friend that comes to help you, It is so. Not so and so. To your heart's joy. Sometimes, from the mind, because there's still the maya-presence Sometimes we can feel even irritable, because we are in the presence But don't despair. These things must play, and they must happen. Just keep confirming, as we can, all these are sensations that come and go. It is as old as time. Our Heart, the light of this world, in its purity. Do not let the mind cover it. Let discovery, Self-discovery be our joy, Even in the midst of challenges and from our conditioning, do not be in despair, because you are already the Self, it is already the Truth, We are simply waking up, This is the blessedness of life. So, on this most auspicious Papaji Jayanti day the ancient song is being sung. Remember who you are. Be established in the Heart. Transcend the waves and the clouds of the mind. God is on your side. It arises in my heart to share a Psalm from the Bible, actually, right now. The 23rd Psalm, it's coming up, It starts like this, 'The Lord is my shepherd'. Here we are put in the position of a sheep, and God is our shepherd, it puts it like this. Also, the Guru is a shepherd. 'The Lord is my shepherd. He guides me to quiet waters. He leads me to the quiet waters and restores my soul. He leads me in the ways of righteousness, because of His name, it's true. Yea, yea, though I walk through I will not be afraid, Your words and your staff, they comfort me.' He says, 'You prepare a table before me in the presence of those who despise me. You anoint my head with oil until my cup is overflowing with grace. Surely goodness and mercy And I will dwell in the house of God, forever.' This is Psalm, the 23rd Psalm of the Bible. This is a Psalm that can be sung with great joy. Thank you. Om On this day, Papaji day, a God day, bless that each one, from your heart will continue shining powerfully the peace of God, the power and wisdom that transport us Bless those who are challenged by mental or emotional challenges. Bless, by the grace of God, that each transcends, and above all, that each one, each one awakens and finds everlasting peace. May it be so. May it be so. May it be so. Om shanti, shanti, shanti, shanti. Blessings towards all beings, whatever race, whatever culture, whatever situation, whatever circumstances. Blessings be upon all living beings. All the peoples of the world, peace be upon you. The peace of God be upon you, and all of us. Thank you. Thank you. May your days be permeated with peace, with joy, with the silence of real Being. May that joy continue to expand and to deepen, at the same time, leading to eternal happiness. Let it be so. Let it be so. [Friend] Babaji, the broadcast has stopped. [F.] The people on Zoom are still here, [Mooji] Thank you, thank you, thank you. I've just come to hear that the broadcast, the wider broadcast is having some struggle. But you, who I can see in the room, thank you, you are here. Thank you, for I feel in my heart, When we discover, remember and honour God, we are always in the greatest company! [F.] We are good. [Mooji] Thank you. And I know for a short few moments You're back again. But in the heart you have missed nothing at all, except my reminding and blessing; you are already that which you seek. The highest of which is to seek harmony with And to radiate through this form, the love, the joy, the peace of God. To be in the full living discovery of that which is timeless and imperishable. Bless you, bless you, bless you. Thank you for this opportunity to sit together. Thank you. Wherever you are, bless you. Bless your life and your expression. But above all, bless for full awakening So be it. So be it. Thank you. Hallelujah. Amen. Thank you. [music] [sound of the bell] Copyright (c) 2021 Mooji Media Ltd. No part of this recording may be reproduced without Mooji Media Ltd.'s express consent.