somber country -[Peter] Will, how's it going, man? -Thanks for meeting up. -Going on a adventure today? [door creaks] -So you living out of this? -Yep, seven years now. -Gotta a stove top, you have a rock collection. CD collection? -DVDs. -And then copilot? -Miss Baby Girl, -Seat belt's not happening, right Will? -Nah, you don't need a seat belt. -There ain't no police, -How far away -A little over an hour and he's not coming if it ain't important. -How many years have you been out here? -I've been out here -Where are you from originally? -Okay, so you went super urban -Literally the most populated and I looked for See this is... I'll be taking this sign down We don't approve of those things. -Who put that up? -BLM. Not BLM in the city, BLM. -I know people confuse that, -Yes, yes. -Which I didn't even know until I was in the cites at one point And they had to explain to me, -So there's not a strong -No, not at all. [Will laughs] -So pioneering spirit? -Pioneering, rebel, outlaw. You know, just no government overreach. Nobody approves of it and we defend it. I was fully emerged in the New Jersey life and I owned some businesses out there. So I was all over the place. I came out here once before &quot;This is freedom.&quot; This is real freedom. There's no one telling you what to do. There's no &quot;No trespassing&quot;, and it just brought me out here. I had to get away from it Not even for a second. [door creaks] [Peter] You don't want to mention -Not necessarily. -So we'll just call it the town. I mean everything we see right here, You can literally see everything. -And your cat's like a dog, -So she made the van, she got cat-napped I was freaking out, you know, So the only thing I could think of to do to deal with it was I took a Sawzall and I figured if I have a distraction Built it up over six months All by hand, no power tools. -10,000 feet up in the mountains? We're at 6,500 here roughly? -Closer to 55. Six months in, and I got a picture of her so I say she made the van 'cause I started it when she left -Wow, that's so cool. These are magazine rack holders And these are my doors, [creaking] My table that I have right here Which engineering and designing with this big gap in here I only have enough electricity No refrigerator, no bathroom, I have another home It's a house boat on the dirt, Which I always thought was crazy of that house boat -Okay, you said because your landlord says no but we can stand outside -Right. -And I'm only in town or helping out my buddy We have a couple head of cattle, So I tend the fields in the summer and get all the free beef I've been doing construction I do everything, mechanicing, plumbing, Carpenter by trade, [Peter] Okay, so you said -Mm-hmm. -If someone's gone, Aren't some people gonna break into it -No... no. Because everyone's watching. You know, we're in the Wild West So you gotta understand someone will take care of business -I mean they're not shooting them but they're just getting them out of town? -I mean in the past... [laughs] -In the past out here, yeah, of course. -Yeah, but they'll escort them they'll do whatever needs to be done -So the place manages itself? -Basically. -Without police? [door creaks] -All right. Look at this place. Built into the mountain, wow. Look at this art up here, Look at this, in the store. What a cool place. -[Peter] So you take the Goldback here? So this is very cool, this is his business. This currency is being used and he said even out here it's being used. Obviously your store. It's beautiful. [woman] Exchange rate is $4.08. -It just goes to the gold price? When something happens It will be legal tender. -So I believe there's actual gold -Uh-huh. -The actual gold is in there. -From what I understand a one, or a five, or a twenty. -How much gold is in-- -When they tell us all we can use is a card. -I only operate on cash and I've run into it numerous times -So you think there's that push and get rid of the paper eventually? -How many times this year we're having a coin shortage? We have a coin shortage? No. You're just telling people that so they because you can't get your change back. And cash goes to many other people, -And a lot of non-business owners when you use plastic, has to pay 3% or whatever. So the bank, JP Morgan or whoever... -Makes all that money. And if you get everyone on that, -Right. They can control what you spend because they can -They're doing that in Canada. -And they can track you, they know -You really think it's getting that bad? -Yes. -You think it's going there? -Ten years? -That's one benefit being out here, -Oh yeah, we've already seen it, and everybody from the county, helped everybody else. And it will be that way too because They're patriots. They're patriotic people, and they believe And the ones that don't believe that and off the government, and need And we outweigh 'em. And what's scary is that Like groceries, If something happens and everybody starts coming 'Cause they all -Oh. -Then that takes our supplies away -They think they can buy it here. -We only have a certain amount because we can only get supplies So that's gonna be a crunch but there's enough of us and there's enough of us and cook it for dinner, butcher a cow. You know, we can... -You can make it work? -We can make it work [Will] Mm-hmm. -If I don't remember how to can a tomato, there's four other ladies and we can all have gardens, back in their storage and stuff. So we'll survive. -It's mostly LDS here, right? -Um, I would say half and half. -You're LDS, right? -Margaret accepts me and I'm not. -But he's okay. I mean I can talk to him -He's proved his worth in town? -Oh yeah, he has. And we're pretty good friends. -That's cool. -But the bigger towns are different because most people and they're not as trusting but we all... We seem to manage pretty good out here. -Thank you, take care. -Margaret's great, she feels like maybe -I love her to death for sure. -What a cool place. I'm starting to feel the vibe of the town. &quot;Leave me the F alone.&quot; 'Don't tell me how to live.&quot; -Mm-hmm. Which I can respect for sure. -That's really what it is that's what they stem from, is people Like that guy, he's been there for a week. -And that's fine? -Doesn't need a permit or anything. If you overdo something So it's a matter of making sure you don't cause a scene, and then everyone's okay with it. Those are the cows that we raise, -So what's with the house boats out here? -We recycle them and salvage them. That's my place right there. -That's your place? -The house boat? -See the slide coming down the side? -For quick... quick exits. -You slide out of the house? And then all those columns, that's just and I was like, So I made columns out of the roofing That took forever, it was daunting. I did that last summer, 110 degrees, &quot;Oh man, columns.&quot; I was dreaming about columns. But I had to get it done. [laughs] I don't know the story but they're old, hundred years or more. -I'm sure they came with the pioneers? Where I moved was, as the crow flies, -Okay, where was that? -I can't say. -But it's part of -Okay. -And it takes about three hours and this was the closest town. So ever since day one and then once I finally wanted to live this was the best place to be. -So you were living -The most remote ranger station Most people, you know, never going on pavement -And you did that? And it was beautiful. -Okay, did you get lonely though? -I had a girlfriend at the time. This is the elementary, and then they get shipped out an hour, to go to school every single day and the graduating class -From here? -So you don't have a choice in friends. [laughs] I think that's amazing 'cause where So that's just wild to think of. -You think there's an advantage -100%, I wish I did. -Why? -I learned a lot in the East but nothing that helps me. Everything that helps me, You know, about how to survive, All the good morals 'Cause you're not in a bubble, I grew up about two miles Which is right next to Newark. So lots of crime. My neighborhood was a nice neighborhood, but you're right there So the hood came to you, So people got murdered. Not every day or anything I was into drugs, you know? I've been clean and sober since 2008. -Nice. -But I did heroin, I had been pistol whipped, I been to jail but nothing serious. And it's just, you know, It doesn't matter where you're from. You have a connection to that stuff [ATV passing] [Will] So this is the main drag That's why the church is here, There used to be a market over there. They've lived here forever. A friend of mine Her whole family's lived here -Okay. -That's someone from California -So the Californians coming here, they're just done with urban life, and they want to get away from it all? -That's what they say. -[Will] Hey, Sam. -Good, how you doing? [Peter] Sam's got -I want that truck. Good old eight-by-eight. -Does it run? -I doubt it. It's been in this spot ever since But the gas station's for sale -There's a hot tub in here. So this doesn't bum you out seeing -That's what makes me happy. -Like that? -I don't know, it's just history. I think it's beautiful. I prefer an old decayed thing than some modern, When I first moved here, this was and I was talking to the guy here as a welcome to town. And it was a good looking stick. [laughs] [Peter] Lot of creativity out here. [Will] This is a Volkswagen Beetle. [Peter] Look at that car, that's cool. -'Nother Volkswagen. -Oh, that's awesome. [Will] Ain't no biggie, brother. I like that. C'mon. [taps] Thank you. There was this one time So there's a hot spring up there two miles each way. We're on there one day when I'm hiking with her just in case, and a coyote came up, and ran up the hill and as he's running up the trail I pulled my knife out, jumped on his back, stabbed him right in the side he yelped, let go of her. She was fine. He ran off and that was that. [laughs] [Peter] So everyone's -Yeah, I mean working inside. These people here Which they're good people. Then the postmaster lives here. There's no delivery of mail to the houses, you have to go to the post office -This is the local park? So the fireworks are here. Which surprisingly, Like the 4th of July, They have a dance, the rodeo... -You're saying there are people -Yeah, like you can see -Yep. -But then the owner of that store, Just living off-grid. -So when an event happens here, brings all these people in? -When church happens on Sundays? Other than that, Keeping it simple, working, and their animals, and everything. -You're single, right? -Yes. -Okay. So that's gotta be tough out here. -It can be for sure. I mean mainly it's tourists in the summer. People traveling through and everything. That's when I get to meet girls Like back in the day when you went that's kinda how I operate. -But you said there was -Yes. -But there's no social place or anything. So you can't like go to a bar, and expect to have an interaction. You know, it's just in passing, So you can just throw your number, and in that situation never heard anything back. [laughs] -Okay, what about healthcare? If someone gets hurt, Like seriously hurt. -Well there's Life Flight. So a lot of people do the insurance That's the only way 'cause and you don't get pulled over, you might be able to get to So at that point it's like if it's not 'cause it ain't worth it. Otherwise you're gonna get And this is where the people that this is all his employee housing here. Gas station, two restaurants, He owns half of the residential units The unelected leader of town. [laughs] -Is he loved? By some... not by me. Tell you that much. -Does he have oligarch vibes? -100%. Takes advantage of his powers, 100%. And I will proudly say that. [laughs] -You want that on the video? -F*ck, why not? [laughs] -So you guys have one market? -Yep. -It has the most basic essentials In every direction there's national parks. -Yep. -So that's all the tourism. -So you have new businesses like this? Not businesses, but one. -Yeah. -[Will] I love old atlases. That's a map you're seeing a lot of -Yeah, but it's separated, -Right, what year is that? Pre-'68? -The front says '75. Huh, well this is all -I have an old atlas in the van It's got a whole part on -[Peter] Is this your business? -How's it going? It's been busy even with it being colder. -How long have you been open? -You ladies living here? -Okay, how many years? -Less than one. -Less than one, okay. Is it still honeymoon period -I don't think there ever was. -There was no honeymoon? -Not for our lifestyle -Okay, so why'd you move here? -Take it away. -Um, well our men, they work on a ranch down here. -Okay, okay. -So all last year we hotel hopped and then now they have a house. And so we live here. Our house is getting finished. Anywho, I've only been here she's been here almost a year, and we've been starting a ranch So no house, no corrals, no water. -Wow. How's that been? -Rough, to say the least. somber country [splashing] [Will] I love that. My brother, I brought him out here once, but he couldn't admit it when he got home that only crazy people or dirty hippies would want to live Like those are the only possible reasons. And I've heard from a lot of people, they just don't... They don't have any interest I honestly think You know, 'cause it's intimidating -It's the openness and barrenness of it? -Yeah. And knowing that you're on your own. Like I have a friend in the military and he's in the military and he's freaking out the whole time. Paranoid, looking over his shoulder, -C'mon. 'Cause it's so &quot;dangerous&quot; and there's no one to come and help. That's some people's mentality. Whereas all those same reasons for why out here is so safe and awesome. Because you're on your own and you don't have to worry And nobody's gonna come out Like why would you do that? You know, &quot;I'm gonna drive five hours [Peter] Don't you get... but lack of stimulation? There's just like, But you sort of know everyone if you meet a girl Do you feel like you're missing anything? -No, 'cause even when I lived when I took a girl out, We'd go out to explore If I'm trying to show a girl you know, have a big fire. I think that's real romance. Going to a restaurant in the city, -Look at this, street signs. [Will] Jackrabbit. [Peter] Oh, look at that guy go. So fast. Okay, so this guy we're talking about, what do you mean well watcher? -A well watcher. So it's just a water well in the ground. There's actually official paperwork, and I was the official well watcher. I just made sure but it was on the side of the highway. So at night time I would put on -Yeah. 'Cause there's a lot of UFO stuff -Okay. -So I'd do that and go looking all around, and stuff. -What's your take of UFOs? -I've seen some weird sh*t out here. -Like what? -Um... So the weirdest thing, I was and it was like 2:00 in the morning, and there was this weird red light And I got weird vibes, something felt off. And then all of a sudden the light maybe a quarter mile right up to me. Blinded me. You know, for a split second, same thing. We both got concerned We were trying to get our heads and in the bushes there was deer 'Cause they had antlers coming out And I don't know what it was but I've never seen deer like that, and we lived there, -You weren't on anything? -So is that consensus out here? Do most people say they have UFO -The guy at the market, A lot of them. And then the property there's a long history I don't think it's an insane topic I think a lot of people are like, [Peter] Cemetery. &quot;The first inhabitants&quot;. Do you recognize a lot of these names -Avery, Robinson. The critter garden in town, Hunts. This guys right here, look at this. Where was it? Fifteen years old. One. [Peter] So Will, these lots are for sale? -Yep. -And this is an old ghost town? -Trying to bring it back And from cemetery it looks like is when everyone left here I can respect this work because I used to making circle rocks square and it takes a lot of work -It looks in great shape. [Will] That's what's glorious 'Cause I mean a piece of wood that's been will basically look the same way The desert preserves. And they left because it kept on flooding and they kept getting wiped out -They just gave up. And the people buying these plots, You don't worry [laughs] I mean I know it's hard, you know? When it was flooding and my buddy here, he was scrambling Trying to stop his home I like that you have to worry about instead of traffic going to the store It's the real stuff, important things. I think that's a big reason for why 'cause you do, None of the nonsense. -Just the cycles of nature -Mm-hmm -Yeah, because-- -Yup, and the thing is places like this because man can't dominate it. You know, we're in the year 2023 and there's no high rises here [Will] That's the other thing, That's a big part of why I'm here. 'Cause you're redneck, your Mormon, You're not turning at this street, you're turning at the rock -You said you're a redneck hippie, -Mm-hmm. I love nature, I love music, I love, you know, free spirit stuff That's a big part of me. But at the same time I love the redneck mentality your place, your honor, Like something that to me, Having that confidence, you know? And not letting people And I find... I don't know, 'Cause rednecks, they have respect. -Like a code of honor, right? -Yeah, and it's a universal language. You go to a foreign country that's all you need. I feel like at least. -I think the people out in these places, -Not to say they're simple. -'Cause you get all types but in the sense that you come everyone knows it -Mm-hmm. -As long as you're cool to them it's like you get it back in volumes. -It's that respect. -If you come in looking down, it's such a losing game, like... -Well, the one guy in town the last straw with him, he said to someone about an issue He was talking to another person, and he said, &quot;Small town, small mind.&quot; And that was, &quot;You're out.&quot; -Once he said that. -You know, you're gonna be made or literally escorted out of town. You know, you're just not welcome by making that phrase right there. But there are people out here that, You know, some people were here, and nobody knows where they are. somber country [Peter laughing] Oh, sh*t. [Will] Woo. [Will] So people just come down here And they'll do crazy sh*t. They'll go flying 50 feet, -Oh, yeah. -And you know, It's a big playground for everyone. -And this is just -Anyone can come out? No one to tell you I wanted to slide down these hills -Oh look at that guy. [dirt bike revving] [rider] You guys rolled up, [all laughing] -When you saw the van? That dude? No way! [all laughing] [Peter] Spencer, -It's like a dirt bike kind of Mecca. It's an open OHV riding area. Most places where you dirt bike they want you to stay Places like this if you're inside the boundary zone -Whichever direction. And there's not lots of places like this. The motorized community gets a lot from the non-motorized people. We're loud, we make dust, you know? We kind of leave a mark and everyone else And so when you come to places like this that don't want you there. Lots of trails and other places you ride, equestrians, bicyclers, and it's like we're the outcasts -Okay. A lot of us are really We do our part, we recycle, you know? We're not complete just idiots but our form of fun leaves a mark. It just does unfortunately. [Peter laughing] Look at Will's form of fun, I guess we're gonna do a... a sledding. [Peter] Ooh, cardboard falling apart. A lot of resistance, friction. Ooh, a little fall and a roll. [laughing] A roll. [Will] Woo! [Peter] I think it's a purposeful roll [Will panting] Woo. [all laughing] [Spencer] Taylor was flying [Will whispers] I have one of those. [Peter] Oh wow, with the dirt bikes there. That is so cool. [Will] Oh, that's right here. [Spencer] You guys need to [Peter] Are these guys -Yeah, they're taking a break. Come into camp. -All right, so you take it seriously, [Peter] Nice. -This is Will and Peter. -These two are badass riders, -Are you going back out right now? [grunts] [bike engine revving] Holy sh*t! [Peter] Woo! [Peter] Holy sh*t! [laughing excitedly] Wow! Oh, god! Whoa. I'm gonna drop him off, and get a couple shots, [engines drown out chatter] [revving] -[Peter] Oh my god! [Peter] Oh my God, [laughing] Wow! -That is badass. -That is badass. -Yeah guys, I don't think the camera the sheer scale of this place. It is like being on another planet. [engine revving] Oh, yeah! [laughs] [Spencer] So sick! -What do you think [Spencer yelling] It's probably 150. -150? -It's a ways, dude. [bike approaching] -Oh my god! That was epic. [Spencer] Nice, Will. [Peter] Will's... Energy drink Will. -Utah's so diverse from north to south. Northern Utah with the Wasatch high mountain lakes, right? Rivers. And this here, this blue dirt, gray dirt, I believe it was a really deep ancient sea that no plant life or anything So this soil, they say is inert. You can't grow anything in this. [Will] Something interesting At your spas in the cities and stuff, right here, this is about $50. -Really? -Yeah, this is what they do -They cake it on themselves? [engines revving] [engine fades into country music] [Will] People from Alaska when they come down they come to these parts They're like, Doesn't look like it Same for Australians. I was shocked to see that Australians And I grew up thinking [Peter] So you're not worried about 'Cause a lot of this stuff is accessible are super far away or what? -Yeah, I mean during the virus -Really? -Just RVs? -Just covered in RVs and everything. So of course not everybody knows but they're not hard to find and the damage that has been done So it's kinda it is what it is. To me, these spots are like the city. The spots that I enjoy deeper into the desert from here. And those are areas and you don't talk about them. You don't share 'em with no one. You find it if you find it. I just hope anybody that comes out here, The feelings you get and the enjoyment There's no trash on the side of the roads. People are friendly. So if you come out here Be friendly, don't leave trash, don't leave cardboard You know? Just take care of it and make sure [Peter] This is absolutely stunning. What a beautiful place. [Will] It's just the tip of the iceberg. [door creaks] [both laughing] [Peter] If you were to sum it up what has living out here taught you? -As much as I might hate to say it, confidence. -Confidence? -Why do you hate to say that? -'Cause I'm from New Jersey. I was confident [laughs] -Okay. -But coming out here, getting stuck places, getting lost, running out of supplies. I've been in so many situations The first time I was stuck somewhere, no radio service, -Okay. -And I forgot my map. And it was in a place that you need a map. And I wandered for probably 30 miles I didn't think I was gonna die, but I was unhappy -Right, and we never really go for the most part, right? -Right, yeah. -You're never really challenged like that it builds confidence, right? -Yes. -And another thing is being prepared. -Okay. -Carrying everything 'cause you're on your own and you gotta figure it out. [Peter] Oh, this is so cool. And it's all free, you know? You try to pay for these places Friggin' hard to beat this. -And something else I always think about, people pay... Like right now this isn't a place 'cause we're in a park, but everywhere else people will pay millions of dollars -Yeah. -Why are people paying $10 million Call it home. [silence] So out here I like to do guides for people and show people around the desert. -Cool. -And show 'em how to -Respecting it. -What I do, it's not your typical You gotta be prepared -And you'll get them way out? -Get them way out to places that -Okay, so you don't have social media. How do people find you? -So I can be found at -Okay cool, I'm gonna put the link If you're coming to this part of Utah It's been awesome today, man. -Hell yeah. Really interesting lifestyle And the feeling I get few people I've talked to, freedom. -Freedom. -That's the vibe. -And it's a special thing. -Very special, and we're in America. -So you might as well know freedom. -Right on, brother. -All right guys, Until the next one. -Peace. somber county