Now, constraints are dispelled within the intent that is the true nature of phenomena. To begin with, without interfering with the arise, you dispel constraints within the unique purity, beyond ordinary consciousness. &quot;If you are not distracted from the essence lucidity, there is no problem without restriction.&quot; This is illustrated by the fact that as long nothing contradictory about five-colored light directions. It is not as though you hold your consciousness, without restriction, within a single context. Rather, you ensure a simple, from bare awareness, &quot;Well,&quot; you might think, &quot;wouldn't one be proliferating thoughts to scatter however But here distraction is not possible. As subtle energy moves outward, awareness turns back inward, its dynamic energy is freed because that is the bare essence of The All-Creating Monarch states: phenomena, Given intimate contact with the meaning of there is no distraction. Given the unified sphere of being, thoughts proliferate anywhere. If you have not fathomed this key point, it progress along the spiritual path. Even though you may meditate day are fixated on or attached to or nonconceptual awareness, stability of the gods bit farther out of samsara. Even though meditative absorption may be thoroughly if one indulges in overt fixation on it, entertainment.&quot; This will not lead to actual nirvana. When yogins come to a realization of bare due to its dynamic energy, they are conscious outside the scope of its essence-the true so they have not strayed from the spontaneously enlightened intent of dharmakaya. Given the view that concepts are free in their when one rests naturally and without distraction, to do or to seek. Everything, moreover, occurs naturally and Let me summarize the significant points here. Even though deliberately contrived view and you should understand that they are within characteristics. As for what is completely &quot;ordinary&quot; and uncontrived, to realize in response to sense objects is When the distortions of hope and fear awareness, all the &quot;sharp You should understand that if there realization, there is a nondual the victorious ones. The same The essence of the teacher is the all-creating While the true nature of phenomena entails or ordinary thinking, is samsara, To seek something and meditate on it is the and characteristics. Therefore, the all-creating one does not proclaim lies in abiding in meditative absorption that and fear. When realization severs the bonds of these one abides in the meaning of equalness, the and so the enlightened intent of me, the all-creating is spontaneously accomplished. Thus, the pith instruction is to focus one's on the heart essence, which cannot be cultivated Having dispelled constraints within the essence which is beyond ordinary consciousness, you the transcendence of the proliferation and recollection: the limitations imposed by path of yogins who desire enlightenment not will not cross-purposes. Therefore, there can be no deliberate process there is simply no straying from the naturally realization of bare awareness. This is the enlightened intent of naturally It is free as the supreme state of total perfection The Great Garuda states: itself continuously in is free in that these empty objects rest in without being analyzed. The very absence of extremes purifies the higher realms. The unobstructed essence of awareness-the a purely conventional perspective: Since this From the standpoint by elaboration, it is great perfection, the Within the context of your realizing your consciousness is limpid and nonconceptual, thoughts, no coming or going, and so this lucid meditation. Since this essence does not involve the duality is that acceptance and rejection are naturally is the unique state of nondual conduct. And since samsara and nirvana do not exist there is no renunciation or attainment, no unique fruition state Conduct is beyond the dualities of reifying Meditation is beyond the duality of discarding View is beyond extremes and bias. Fruition is beyond the dualistic extremes and attainment. When myriad dream images manifest, even though years-even eons-seem to pass, none of them simply manifest as they do without straying of rest. Similarly, you should understand that even as the universe of appearances and possibilities, for space that is its essence, and this primordial state. Now, there are some major criteria for making limitations imposed by conceptual doubts. One such within naturally occurring samsara-that is, perceptions based on confusion: The essence of self-knowing awareness is not and even though it manifests as a display, is not sullied by external sensory appearances. Inwardly, you do not reify what arises within energy, and so it is emptied of karma and There is in samsara or fall into confusion, and so and sensory The stronghold of dualistic perception crumbles. Aware ness becomes fully evident as an unobstructed perception and reification. Then you are said to have &quot;arrived at the pure realm of Samantabhadra,&quot; to have &quot;gained being, dharmakaya.&quot; When you experience awareness free of ordinary is also free of ordinary mind's confused perception. So there is no place This is because the essence that is buddhahood, it, When awareness is involved with ordinary mind, it is free of ordinary mind, The Pearl Garland states: the distinction between ordinary mind and Ordinary mind is the ground of all habitual It is the distortion common to ordinary beings. It is the reification of objects and mind. 79 If there is freedom from ordinary mind, that to buddhahood. The distortions common to all ordinary beings been exhausted. Beings are driven by ordinary mind, driven. Therefore, beings appear as if in a magic Due to the ordinary mind that reifies things, objects, though they lack true existence, five ways- as forms, sounds, odors, tastes, Due to the ordinary mind that reifies itself, inevitable consequences, as well as afflictive ways. Samsara-the reification of objects where none exists-manifests to ordinary beings like a of dualistic mind. By their very nature, ignorant and spiritually try persistently to tie space into knots. They reify their perceptions of sense objects, objects do not exist. Though nothing exists as self or other, and other. Thus, forging the spiritual path with unique mind does not exist-is the key point for of ordinary mind, in this Forging the path with ordinary mind entails that do not transcend the state of ordinary buddhahood. You may ask, &quot;Doesn't one forge the path is, with an aspect of responsiveness, the Though you are in fact forging the path with refers to bare awareness-the ground for the thoughts-not wavering from its natural place You absolutely of thoughts-that is, with the dynamic energy of responsiveness. I have already explained, again and again, rest in the essence of awareness, you let vanishes naturally. Therefore, understand that ordinary confused rooted in the nonrecognition of awareness, and is unable to &quot;stay in one place&quot; without up in sense objects-is a confined space. And so forge the path with unobstructed, nonconceptual consciousness that engages in thinking in The Perfect Dynamic Energy of the Lion states: beings. As for the perceptions of ordinary mind and of awareness, sense objects where As for the perspective of awareness-timeless things with identity. There is no hope that something &quot;is&quot; This key point alone is understood to be extremely Though there is freedom from ordinary mind, mind, from ordinary consciousness, still the forsaken. This is the inconceivable secret of suchness. Awareness abiding in its natural state of naked, unobstructed awareness. This can be differentiated from a one-pointed without thoughts As you become familiar with that state of karma and habitual patterns that perpetuate of the cessation of ordinary mind. Your present familiarity with awareness, free which is All moments in which you experience awareness awareness does not stray from the ground of for the fruition becoming fully evident arise the flow of awareness moment by moment.