(patriotic orchestral music) AFA's central Florida Martin H. Harris Chapter (audience applauding) - Thank you. Thirty-six years ago, our chapter established and has been working closing with AFA to keep it one of the premiere professional development Today, it's our honor to participate in continuing that great tradition by hosting this session. I am pleased to introduce to conclude our symposium. Lieutenant General John Thompson is responsible for approximately He commands an annual to support the research, acquisition, and sustainment of satellites and their associated Accompanying General Thompson In 1980-- (crowd cheering and applauding) In 1983, he taught himself at the age of 12, sold the code for a Basic-based for approximately $500. And in 1990, in 1995, he started Zip2, a web software company later But more recently, you might know him for for revolutionizing electric cars as CEO and product Development-- (crowd cheering and applauding) That's all the Tesla owners. (chuckles) Development and manufacturing and spacecraft for missions as founder of Space Exploration (audience cheering and applauding) And conceptualizing known as Hyperloop. (audience cheering and applauding) And if you haven't heard some of these quotes by let me introduce you to one. Here's my first one and I thought, &quot;Well, it &quot;it's also written into the contract &quot;of every airman in this room, &quot;and every man and woman who has served.&quot; The quote is, &quot;If something is important enough, &quot;even if the odds are against you, &quot;you should still do it.&quot; Now, looking back to by Dr. Roper when he one of the Muskism quotes is &quot;Failure is an option here. &quot;If things are not failing, But my favorite quote, &quot;I would like to die on (audience laughing and applauding) General Thompson, Mr. Musk, over to you. Thank you and welcome. (chuckling) - Well, Elon, thanks so As you know, and many we're reprising a fireless fireside chat that we did at Air Force Space Pitch Day back in November. I ran into General Goldfein, the Chief of Staff of the this morning and maybe I was being a little bit too confident but I said, &quot;Hey, I think that we did &quot;at Space Pitch Day that &quot;for a much bigger &quot;and everything like that.&quot; And General Goldfein &quot;No, J.T., you guys are gonna (audience laughing) So we're gonna talk a little For those of you in the audience that nothing that was introduced about Elon made it to the prefrontal &quot;I still don't know who this guy is.&quot; You may remember him from a or the TV show &quot;The Big Bang Theory.&quot; You may remember him, when you used to have you may remember how over a dial-in modem. - And if, just in case in the sand for the last decade, you absolutely have to know him for Space Exploration a tremendous partner of in the space business. And for Tesla. So, just for grins, this fastest-growing auto company on the planet, most amazing capability, he pulled up, he and his entourage, in three different Teslas this morning. How many Tesla owners do (audience cheering) Stand up, stand up if (Elon laughing) (audience applauding) Very nice. - (chuckling) - So, Elon, you and I have talked about whether the Air Force is The Department of the Air Force now, and the last time we interviewed, it was just the Air Force. Now we're the Air Force that's part of the Most of those people who stood we have a lot of first adopters here in the front of the audience, apparently. Or maybe those are the folks (audience laughing) Okay, so, again, today's And how we can make the the most innovative department within the Department of Defense and perhaps across the So, Elon, question number one. When you put a weapons into production, and you start delivering very, very frequently there is a push-back within the production organization that, &quot;You know, we don't want to &quot;It's successful.&quot; We have a lot of legacy systems that we're responsible for in the Department of the Air Force. There is a lot of reticence, at times, to incrementally improve to those systems. From the context of Tesla and SpaceX, how do you motivate your workforce? How do you work with your customers? How do you work with technologists in your ecosystems, your various ecosystems, to try and make sure that and they continue to - Sure, well, first of all, It's an honor to be here with from the Space/Air Force. (laughs) And, we've obviously with the Air Force and the support over the years, so I just wanna make sure I say that. And look forward to doing a lot of interesting things in the future. I think it's actually, it's cool that there is, the creation of the I think it makes sense that there's a major branch for every domain, you know? And so the domain of space, the domain of air, are both important. I think space-based is (laughs) - [General Thompson] Sure. - And I think there's some very If I may just say it, like what the public wants, I think, and I'm actually pretty confident that the public does want this, is a Starfleet Academy. You know with like (laughs) Yeah, like how do we make That'd be pretty amazing. I'd love that. (laughs) You know? And so I think the fastest we can make sort of Starfleet real, then, (chuckles) - [General Thompson] (audience applauding) speaking for the United there already is a Starfleet Academy, it's the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado. (audience cheering and applauding - Sure. I've been there, I've given a talk, and, you know, the first we had a Falcon sat from That rocket blew up. (audience laughing) But then the funny thing is, it blew up, the thing is truth is the satellite was shot through the fairing, arced through the air a and then plunged through and then landed on the floor. And which was actually I mean, for crashing through the ceiling, but, you know, like, recognizable. (audience chuckling) And we gave it back and said, &quot;We've not lost one of (audience laughing) - So, from a SpaceX perspective, - Just buff it out. - A partial mission success? - Well, it's like, it's (both men laughing) It's a little worse for But then we subsequently to actual orbit, that was great. So, I think there's, I think we can go a Starfleet real and making these, sort of, semi-utopian futures real but it will definitely One can't get there by expendable boosters, there's just no way. - Yeah. - So, the, I think we need to push for radical breakthroughs and if you don't push for you're not going to get radical outcomes. And that does mean taking risks. And, common sense, that in order to have a big reward, It's, most of the time, you cannot find big reward for small risk, those are rare. So you're gonna have some proportionality to the risk and reward. But if the goal is important enough, and I think increasingly for many reasons, the goal of having the that is, I think, gonna And it'll be increasingly important for the United States to use what I think is its greatest attribute which is invention and innovation to create space technology And in fact, I think does not use breakthrough innovation, it will fall behind. So, I think this is not in times past but I think is a risk now. - Okay. So, yeah. - Do you characterize that risk in terms of peer-adversary competition around the planet? Are you suggesting that that require us to be Or is it just we can't become complacent and stay incrementally we must take those giant leaps forward as a nation regardless of the competition? - I think there's little, I have zero doubt that does not seek great innovations in space, it will be second in space. - Okay. - With, as sure as night follows day. So it is a big deal. But this is a very innovative, there's no country more than the United States. So it's just important That's the ace card. - [General Thompson] Okay. And since it seems like we're going down the geopolitical path how does the United States as a nation maintain that innovative edge? That ability to invest in things What kind of governmental policies or processes do we have to encourage the right kinds of behavior in your view? - Well, I think having is actually very important. - To say like, this is and who can achieve this outcome? Or achieve this outcome That company will, that's who the Air Force And will procure the thing as measured by what is important So, I mean I do think it's to achieve full reusability This is the Holy Grail of space. At the point at which for orbital rockets, then you have a profound advantage over anyone else. Profound. It will be like, if, in the Air Force, if you have planes that or if you had multi-use planes, that could be flown over and all your adversaries That would be no contest. It's the same thing in space. - [General Thompson] Okay. - Yeah, this is extremely fundamental. So, the cost of propellant is typically on the order of 1% of the cost of the of the vehicle. Or less. So, if you have a vehicle that is, say, I dunno, LOX kerosine, like you know, it's, the oxygen and the fuel are, yeah, maybe a half-million dollars But then, depending upon the mission, the mission price can be anywhere from 60 to $100 million. So, the Falcon 9 is a partially-reusable The vehicle we're working on right now, quite difficult, is Starship. And yeah, that has the potential But I think it'd be great to that are doing full reusability. I think competition is a good thing. It may seem at times that shouldn't we focus all our efforts on one system and rather than divide them and have two competing systems. Like, not to cause controversy, (moans) but like, in my opinion, Joint Strike Fighter, there should be a competitor to JSF. I know that's a controversial subject but you know, I think it's not It's good to have competition where that competition is meaningful and somebody can actually lose. Like, so, then, so, yeah. - Yeah. - So, in radical innovation, obviously the workforce is a I mean as, I mean, you were actually doing coding, right? But in SpaceX and Tesla, they are so large that What sort of things do you think about in terms of motivating a workforce like like we have in the that will help them become What sort of things do or in processes that make - Sure, well, I think the is to make sure your incentive structure is such that innovation is rewarded and lack of innovation is punished. There's gotta be a carrot and a stick. So if somebody is innovating and doing, making great progress, then they should be promoted sooner. And if somebody is completely not every role requires innovation, but if they're in a role where innovation is should be happening then they should either And let me tell you, you'll (audience laughing) The stick. It's like, how much do you want it? - Yeah. (audience cheering and applauding) So, does that carrot do you think, people be more risk averse or less risk averse? - Well, when trying different things, you've gotta have some as you were alluding to earlier. Failure must be an option. If failure is not an option, it's going to result in and you may get something even worse than lack of innovation, things may go backwards. So, if, what you really want is you want reward and punishment to be proportionate to the So, if what you're seeking is innovation, then you should reward and only, there should be minor minor consequences for trying and failing. Those should be minor. Significant rewards for Minor consequences for And major negative - [General Thompson] Okay. - So, if you have that you will get innovation - Okay, - So, you've talked at and in various interviews the machine that builds the machine - [Elon] Yes. just as important if not more important than the machine itself. - So, we talked about Are there processes that that are parts of that machine that you think are particularly valuable for innovative, radical change? - Well, what I mean by the is that the the production, designing the production I think at least an order of magnitude or two orders of magnitude harder than designing the initial prototype. - [General Thompson] Yeah. - I think like, in America, there's been less less importance in modern times placed on manufacturing. And I think this is a mistake. At this point, I would really classify, in fact I sent an email to at this point, I think Just trivial. There's like tons of books you know, if you can understand equations, Real easy. Yeah. If you say, like, two-stage, and 2% of your liftoff mass to orbit, to design something like Now say you wanna go into Let's say the next step is you wanna make even one of those things. Okay, now making even one of those things and getting it to orbit is hard. But the designing of it is not hard. The making of it, of even one, is hard. The making of a production line that builds and launches And then the next level creating a fully-reusable system and having that be in volume production and volume launch. That's super, super hard. So, that's, but by building the machine I mean creating the production system and I keep emphasizing to SpaceX the hard part is making it and making lots of them - and launching frequently. 'Cause reuse must not just be, it can't be reuse like the shuttle. It's gotta be rapid and complete reuse. So the shuttle was a case where the reuse was very slow and it was not complete. The main tank was lost every time. And refurbing the shuttle between flights was extremely expensive. It's not even clear whether it was worth recovering the booster So, just like an aircraft, the rocket must be rapidly And then you need lots of them. So, just doing kind of what's needed to establish a these are big numbers, but I think you need on to the surface of Mars, useful payload. Something like that. Because we sit on the top of a massive base of infrastructure. The economy is, you think of all the things and then just the many and in order to produce, like, your phone, or your toaster, even, there's a vast base of to produce even a simple household item. - Yeah. - It's very difficult. So, so you've gotta recreate that on Mars. So a million tons on Mars means, and we're just talking and hopefully it's not 10 million tons, and hopefully, maybe it's but probably not 100,000 tons. So, that means you need to get about about 5 million tons to Earth So we're talking like, so essentially, unless that is somewhere in the megaton it's not relevant. - Yeah. - So, Starlink. As you're scaling to build more to go on more and more reusable rockets, what are some of the challenges in Starlink production that machine that builds the machine? - Yeah, Starlink production That's the, that was a hard thing to get right. We made many iterations on And then, as I said, then building the Starlink I dunno, 1000% harder than designing the satellite to begin with. But it is important to have like, a, to design for manufacturing between the design of the object and the manufacturing system. So, when you design the object at first, you don't realize all the parts that are really difficult to manufacture. And so having the manufacturing bringing those up at the same time, so that you're actually in the beginning making a thing that you know is wrong but you're actually figuring That's the real problem. So, we brought up the before we actually had Which is actually the right thing to do. And then we discovered, oh, in the design that are And so therefore we And the satellite ended up but just was very easy to make and launch. So, I say very easy, (laughing) but it's being done and the satellites are faster than we can launch them. So, and the cost of the the cost of transporting it to orbit. Even when taking a Falcon 9 in the most reused configuration, which is to get the booster back and you get the fairings back. The cost of transporting exceeds the cost of the satellite. So the satellite's in a good situation. - Okay. - And the cost of that satellite will keep coming down as we ramp up rate and make design improvements. So we really need in order to get the total delivered cost to orbit to be much better than it is today. - [General Thompson] Okay. - When you, so in terms you can take feedback from customers and let customers pull or you can be radically or, you know, a small set of individuals and develop something and push it into the industrial base. So, customer pull would new features on the existing fleet. Push would be, company push when Apple pushed the iPad to everybody and nobody knew what an iPad was until they touched it and went, &quot;Wow.&quot; - [Elon] Sure. - And everybody wants an iPad now. What do you wall think about between customer pull and company push? - Well, in the beginning, I can tell you that. (audience laughing) When we made the original people were like, &quot;Why would &quot;My gasoline car works fine.&quot; I'm like, &quot;No, an electric car's (audience laughing) And it was hard to get First of all, nobody knew who we were, they never heard of this company. I'm like, &quot;Yeah, we're &quot;You know that guy? &quot;Nope.&quot; (laughs) So, for sure we were doing 'cause there was no one telling us that they wanted an electric car. So it was not out of, like, you know, lots of people &quot;Hey, I really want an electric car.&quot; I heard that zero times. So we were like, &quot;It's &quot;make an electric car &quot;and show that these things can be good.&quot; And then people would want them. I think it was Henry Ford said, when we was talking about the Model T, if you asked the public what they wanted, they'd say &quot;a faster horse.&quot; So, if you did a big survey and said, &quot;Hey, public,&quot; before automobiles, It's like, &quot;Well, I'd like my horse &quot;to go three miles per hour faster &quot;and eat less food and &quot;you know, be stronger &quot;and live longer and that kind of thing.&quot; There will be basically improvements on a horse. 'Cause when you say, &quot;Like a car that drives itself?&quot; Like, &quot;What are you talking about? &quot;That sounds crazy.&quot; But when you actually make an automobile and give it to people and say, &quot;Okay, now, this is a horse where &quot;you can keep it in the barn &quot;and if you leave for a month, (audience laughing) Yeah. So, carry more weight than a horse, and go further and that kind of thing. So, it's like when it's a people don't know that they want it because it's just not in their scope. I think when they first they did a nationwide survey, I think this may have in like '46 or '48, it was like a famous nationwide survey, &quot;Will you ever buy a TV?&quot; And it was like 96% of Some crazy number. Like basically everyone's like, &quot;Would you buy a TV?&quot; And maybe they put a price in But it was famously almost everyone said they would not buy a TV but they didn't know what - So the big game-changing is a company push kind of - [Elon] Yeah. changes to the product over time can be a lot more customer - Yeah, changes to the incremental changes, then customers can certainly tell you, it's good to get customer feedback to say, &quot;How can we improve the product?&quot; And once they're using it, they can say, &quot;Okay, I &quot;I don't like this other thing.&quot; And then we can improve Customer feedback after they is great. - Yeah. in the audience here, we have a lot of air we have people who use systems, we have a lot of developmental teams on both the government and we have the air and space So, I've got a little - Great. - To try and influence, maybe, in the back who are looking So, in terms of different whether it's artificial intelligence or medical or batteries or whatever, in the next five years, what technology do you think - Well, it's difficult to 'cause they're very different. But I think the probably most fundamentally - [General Thompson] A.I.? Okay. And if you were recommending and enlisted troops in the room what sort of degrees to pursue at college or what sort of education for themselves in the modern era, what would you recommend? - Computer Science and Physics. - [General Thompson] Computer How many Computer Science (a few members of the audience whooping) How many Physics people? (a few members of the audience whooping) Okay. We need more, apparently. Okay-- Information Theory and Physical Theory if you want to understand and these have very good predictive power, Physics and Computer Science. - [General Thompson] Okay. - Okay, as a nation that is interested in radical innovation to what are the things that the should be investing more in, - Right. - Again, I can't emphasize reusable rockets are. (laughs) You know? You'll love it. It's great. So, and I think you could actually do point to point on Earth, to go long distances and be Because basically just minus the nuke, add a land, you know? So, just sort of in the option package. Just, you know, uncheck &quot;Nuke&quot; and then add (laughing) And that's definitely going to get you wherever you want to go the fastest. 'Cause that's why they made ICBM's, they get there the fastest. So, I think that's going Yeah, I think, uh, yeah, once you have dramatically lower cost access to space, then many things are enabled. You could think of like, once you got the Union Pacific Railroad, then getting to the west and much less dangerous. - You're not likely to sort of end up eating your compatriots (audience laughing) So, you can just take the train. (audience laughing) (Elon laughing) So at the beginning, they thought, &quot;Why the heck are they &quot;There's nobody there.&quot; (laughs) And they're like, but once they're like, &quot;Okay, now it's easy to And now a huge portion is on the west coast. Actually, California is in the nation. But it used to be least populous, So, many things are possible problem is solved. So that's why I think it's so fundamental. If you can't get there or and you can't risk, every then it's very hard to innovate. - [General Thompson] Yeah. - It's gotta be that, okay, and the cost of running that's why I'm harping so So, you know, once you're say establishing a base on there's just a tremendous amount of work that's needed to create on the Moon or Mars. And it opens up a tremendous just as the Union Pacific Railroad did by making access to the west coast much easier. - [General Thompson] Okay. - Yeah. Outside of the space realm, I think there's still a lot I've been saying that for a long time. Tunnels are great. (chuckles) They're really great. And The Boring Company is about to finish its first tunnel in Vegas. I encourage people to copy, or do better, that'd be great. There's - So in terms of domains, - Yeah. - Obviously, Tesla covers the ground domain as capabilities. You've got the space and Starlink capabilities. I think that since this is folks in the audience if you have any ideas for - Well, for the air domain, I think things are definitely going to go into kind of autonomous or locally autonomous drone warfare, that's where it's at, I'm just saying, it's not I It's just, this is what - Okay. - It's autonomous drone warfare. And at a local level, the, I can't believe I'm saying this because this is dangerous, but it's simply what will occur, is sort of drones locally being autonomous and but I think we still want to retain sort of like, you know, authority to damage or destroy anything that isn't an We'll keep that authority back here with a person in the loop. - [General Thompson] Okay. - The fighter jet era has passed. That is, it's just, yeah, the - Okay. - So, it's drones, yeah. - [General Thompson] Um, for a minute. And the mindset that you have, you and your leadership have on failure. I mean, the SpaceX blooper reel that you guys did in - Sure. - I think it was 2017 timeframe. Was definitely, &quot;Hey, we embrace More recently with the Tesla truck and the ball through the window. - [Elon] Yeah. - Also, that mindset of-- - Didn't go through the window. (audience laughs) - That mindset that embraces failure, how do you personally, I would drive a lot of us in this room nuts. It doesn't seem to drive you nuts. Seems like you're very Can you talk about the for you to be that accepting - Uh, sure, shall we roll the video? (laughing) Should we not? - No, we should not - Okay, okay. (chuckles) Well, I think of these things as just, there's a certain amount of time, and within that time, you want the best net outcome. So, for all the set of there's going to be, and some of which will fail, some of which will succeed, and you want the net useful output of your set of actions to be the highest. So, I'd have to use a baseball analogy. You know, in baseball, they don't let you just sit there and wait until you get a real easy one. They're gonna give you three shots. And then the third one, go back to the, put somebody else up there. So, you have three strikes on baseball. Look, you're not on bat anymore. So, what you're really looking for is like what's the batting average? You know, how you're doing on on score and there's gonna be But you want your net output, that useful output to be maximized. Failure is essentially irrelevant unless it is catastrophic. - Yeah. Intellectual property. Obviously, Tesla, SpaceX, Solar City have amazing capabilities to the public and to the How do you protect your in a world where it seems like the cloud and servers and things are from people wishing to free you of your intellectual property? - Yeah, actually, at our patents some years ago. So anyone can use our patents. So we really have not intellectual property in that sense. We've tried to actually smooth the path because the overarching goal of Tesla is to accelerate the advent And so if we created a patent portfolio that discouraged other companies that would be inconsistent So we open-sourced all the patents. - [General Thompson] Okay. - In order to help the other, anyone else who wants So, I guess that's the Now, the real way I think intellectual property protection is by innovating fast enough. If your rate of innovation is high, then you don't need to worry because other companies will be copying something that you did years ago. And that's fine, you know. Just make sure your rate Speed of innovation is what matters. And I do say this to my teams quite a lot. That innovation-per-unit time, it's like innovation per year is what matters, not Because if you're wanting to make, say, a 100% improvement in something, and that took 100 years or one year, that's radically different. So, it's like what is That matters. And is the rate of innovation, is that accelerating or decelerating? A weird thing happens when most companies, or organizations, they tend to get less innovative. Not just less innovative but less innovative in the absolute. And I think this is probably because the incentive structure is not is not there for innovation. It's not enough to use words The incentive structure That's fundamental. So. - So, taking that from a business in terms of, obviously, United States, largest economy in the world, China, the second-largest currently and gaining fast, what sort of things could you share with the audience here on the competition, economic or military, between the United States and China? - Sure. Well, I think China's a I have to say. The thing to appreciate about China is just that there's really hard-working people there. And they're gonna do This is sort of independent they're just gonna do a The thing that will feel pretty strange is that the Chinese economy is going to be probably at least twice as Maybe three times, but at least twice. Yeah, so, that assumes a GDP per capita still less than the U.S. But since they have about four then it would only require of half the United to be twice the size of ours. And as I'm sure people in this room know, the foundation of war is economics. And so if you if you have half the resources, of the counterparty, then you If you're not innovative, (trumpet music blaring) - I'm not sure whether that's ongoing or not here, so. (string music blaring) The clock says I have 11 - I guess it's moot. - All right, so Smooth Jazz Elon, - Now the smooth jazz. - [Announcer] It's coming we're working to get it shut off. - Thank you. (audience laughing) - Um, yes, well, um, at any rate, (laughs) so with respect to China, two to three times the at least double. Therefore, in order for on a military level, the innovation has to in economic output. - [General Thompson] Okay. - So in the absence of radical innovation, the U.S. will be militarily second. - Okay. - Basic, basic math. - What, from the standpoint of radical innovation, we already talked about workforce, we talked about processes, we talked about protecting let's talk about overall culture. That culture that you try that makes them successful. Any of us, and I sat right next to one of your SpaceX employees a young engineer, it was motivating for - Yep. - About what she was doing every day and how important her job was and I just felt like the only other place I've seen that kind of in the Department of the Air Force with some of our young folks that are sprinkled around How do you create that to make employees like that? - Well, wow, this smooth jazz is on us (laughing) with a vengeance. I feel like we're in a (audience laughing and applauding) So, first of all, when we do ask for some evidence which in most cases includes innovation. That's not to say that everyone But we certainly need those that are doing advanced engineering to be innovative. And ideally everyone is at So, at the interview point, we select for people who want And then the incentive structure is set up such that innovation is rewarded, making mistakes along the way does not come with a big penalty. And but failure to try to innovate at all comes with a big penalty. You'll be fired. - Yeah. - The carrot and stick, that's the stick. - If you don't even try, or if somebody doesn't or their innovation aspirations are very, are not very good, then, yeah, they will no - Okay, okay. - All right, so, we've got And what I'd like to do is to talk about whatever If you have a message you have a thousand-plus in the greatest Air and So whaddya wanna tell 'em? - We've gotta make Starfleet happen. (General Thompson laughing) Like, you know? So we want real big spaceships and this will probably get me I think there should be a new uniform. (audience laughing) That's like, I dunno, cool uniforms, cool spaceships, you know? (audience laughing) I think when the public that's what they think. It's like, okay, we're gonna and, like, pretty good uniforms and stuff. And that'll be, that's So, we want the sci-fi futures, the good sci-fi futures, to be real and ideally to become real while we're still alive. You know, and we want to see it happen. And so I think we really need to drive the rate of innovation to be such that we would see big, big breakthroughs, big in the years to come. So, yeah. Just, like, try to make Starfleet happen as soon as humanly possible and definitely while we're still alive. Yeah, so. I'm not sure about warp drive, but other stuff I think can be done. - [General Thompson] Gotcha. - Warp drive and But big space ships definitely, that can be done. - [General Thompson] Understood. - All right. - Ladies and gentlemen, Elon Musk.