[sigh] So I guess we gotta talk about coffee makers now. Hi. You might have seen a video of mine on the I made that video mainly because there's this pervasive idea that electric kettles don't make any sense here because our weedy little plugs are too little and weedy But the fact is, unless you've got an induction stove (which aren't yet anywhere near what I would call "common" 'round these parts) an electric kettle remains the fastest especially for beverages. So, I don't think it's fair to blame the Instead, I said that's it's just because we don't drink tea all that much. Yes, there are other reasons you might want to use a kettle, as a matter of fact tea is pretty far down the list of reasons I use mine, but for the record I grew up calling this thing a tea kettle and I'm not alone! Just take a look at this poll - oh c'mon I was hoping for a better showing than that... Actually, I just realized something. The American children's song is actually a song about a kettle! Teapots are for steeping the tea - they don't That's what a kettle does. See, we're really confused by this whole Oh, relatedly, I've heard from lots of Canadians who politely informed me that nearly everybody up there has an electric kettle and in case you didn't know they have essentially so again - the plugs aren't the answer. Anyway, in that video, I had originally planned since we're addicted to *that* hot brown, a huge portion of us use some kind of coffee maker. But I removed that bit before making the video and thanks to that omission an interesting pattern emerged in the comments. Lots of you wondered how we make coffee without a kettle. And another, but different, lots of you thought Some of us are, yeah, but the humble and cheap drip brewer remains a countertop staple in And that's what this video is about. But first, let's get the obvious thing out of the way. Why don't kettles make our coffee? Well a big part of that comes from the fact intensely dislike instant coffee. You can get it, sure, but the bulk of our aren't great. Your typical grocery store might have maybe and Folgers is probably three of them. That was hyperbole, for the record. Instant coffee is brewed coffee which has then been freeze-dried into crystals. Add that stuff to hot water and you've got "coffee". Trouble is that most of our instant options and probably don't even use arabica beans, so with few exceptions it's just not great. Plus, like, have you ever smelled it as it's That is not a pleasant aroma, and the smell of coffee as it brews is one of the best parts! Thanks to this, the vast majority of the coffee sold here is, ya know, real! Yeah, I said it. You can either buy your beans as beans and grind 'em yourself, or you can get pre-ground coffee. And you can get it in big ol' tubs because Now, there are some methods for brewing actual most prominently the French press or a pour-over filter cone, and some people choose to go that route for taste or hipster reasons. But Mr. Coffee and his offspring have been At least until Keurigs came along. As it happens, I've already made a video coffee percolators. Those are old-fashioned devices for brewing ground coffee which you can still buy for some reason. And they are how we would have been making coffee in 1939, and in fact long before then. Stovetop percolators went atop a stove, and they were invented in the 19th century Later you could get electric percolators which giving them their own water-heating ability. You can check out that video if you want to but they're coming up here to illustrate that and we have been using dedicated coffee-making thingamajigs for over a century. Get used to a thing which makes coffee all by itself, don't drink tea all that much, and an electric kettle becomes a niche item - wait I thought this video was about coffee makers. Anyway, in 1968, Paul Simon and Art Garfunkel and although Joltin' Joe had left and gone away, hey hey hey, he'd show up again in 1973 to hawk Mr. Coffee. Mr. Coffee promised restaurant-quality filter coffee at home. [Never knew coffee could taste SO great!] [or brew so FAST!] See, for over a decade, the foodservice industry and towards basket-type brewers like the Bunn-O-Matic. People really liked the taste of this new, smoother brew, but until North American Systems Inc. created Mr. Coffee, there wasn't a convenient way to have it at home. I mean, if you were one of those weirdos who and there were also plenty of other coffee gadgets on the market But none of them would disrupt the dominance Here we have a modern drip brewer, one of Although it's much newer and refined in its design, it brews coffee in the same way as the original Mr. Coffee. To use it, ground coffee is placed in a paper Water is placed in the reservoir at the back of the machine, and when switched on that water is automatically heated It will then seep through, absorb all that caffeine (and flavors, I guess), and finally make its way to the bottom of the basket where while the filter leaves the grounds behind. No longer recirculating brewed and increasingly-hot a much smoother, more consistent, and Cleanup was also a breeze; the slide-out (or later lift-out) brew basket was much less fiddly than dealing with the guts of a percolator, and after disposing of the grounds a simple rinse of carafe and basket Mr. Coffee sold like hot cakes and before The Mr. Coffee coffeemaker didn't invent and it wasn't even the first electric drip brewer. That would be the Wagomat of Germany, patented in 1954. But Mr. Coffee popularized this brewing method in the US, and it more or less killed the percolator. However, a common feature of electric percolators Drip machines almost as a rule have a hot plate below the carafe so that you can brew a full pot of coffee when you wake up and This does not do good things for the flavor of your coffee, The original Mr. Coffee featured separate power switches for the brewer and the hot plate, but later versions (like this) And here, dear viewer, is where the script went off the rails. See, I was going to simply talk about those old Mr. Coffee machines because obviously they must work just like these new ones. But a quick search for them revealed they operate This intrigued me, so, uh, well... yeah. This Mr. Coffee machine is from 1979, As you can see it has two chonky and wonderfully surrounded by a beautifully-executed faux woodgrain decal. And in case you had any doubt this was a product of the seventies, one look at the carafe is all you need to know for sure. When I first took a look at this coffee maker The back of it is completely empty and the revealing that all of the brewy-bits are up there. There are of course two power leads going down to the hot plate, and they're surprisingly thin. I mean, sure, the hot plate only consumes about 80 watts, so it's not like these need to carry even an amp, but still. That's mains voltage going through here. Anyway, the next clue that this was nothing I poured cold water in the top expecting nothing to happen until I switched it on, but almost immediately water started coming through the brew basket and falling onto the hot plate. It wasn't much, though, and once I hurriedly put the carafe back and switched it on, the flow rate increased. Intrigued, the next order of business was That was all too easy - for being such a revolutionary product that commanded nearly $300 adjusted for inflation when it first came out, this is made incredibly cheaply. Two fasteners barely hold this flimsy cover on the back, and once removed we can see that the entire chassis is held in by these clips that are simply friction-fit to the plastic body. I needed to undo the connection to the warmer and also unfasten its little support / wire chase / grounding strap before I could slide it out, though, but once that was done it's a simple matter of pushing up the tabs and yanking gingerly. What I eventually got hold of surprised me. This is it, folks. These two hunks of metal, one of 'em with are all there is to it. The water inlet at the top of the machine simply dumps water into this upper pan which is vaguely funnel-shaped down to this point here. That pan sits atop the main chassis. Here, electrical connections are at a terminal and power is sent up to the switches at the front. In the middle of the chassis is a second shallow pan with a hole in its middle and a big curly-q heating element spiraling inward towards that hole. When I saw this, I thought "this doesn't make any sense." See, one of the things that the father of Vincent Marotta was frightfully concerned He thought boiling water was much too hot and since stovetop percolators percolated as a result of boiling, well you couldn't get decent coffee out of 'em. He was convinced the water reaching the coffee and no hotter, and no colder. He obsessed over this, devising handmade prototypes and with his business partner Samuel Glazer and the help of engineer Edmund Abel Jr, a functional, mass-producible And I'm holding the patented mechanism right here. How in the heck is this thing controlling the water temperature!? I didn't have a clue so I looked at the that I honestly can't believe works. Consider that this heating element has an We could control it with some sort of thermostat In operation this thing is just gonna run at full power, I suppose the size of this hole could be calibrated but that would only work with a specified inlet water temp, and there's too much variation in the real world for that to work. Well, the answer was staring me in the face see what that hole is punched in? Why, it's a strip of metal. And what are strips of metal sometimes? Bi. That's right, this is a bimetallic strip. If I use a torch lighter and throw some heat at it, you can see it bend away from the pan. This dead simple arrangement of a bimetallic strip In operation, the heat from the heating element which lets water through more quickly. That water, though, is cold and cools the These two counteracting forces combine to You can actually see this valve opening and closing as coffee is brewed Pretty neat. This set screw puts a bit of pressure on the which was presumably done at the factory before being boxed up. Now, I did some testing to see just how close to Not surprisingly, it's not that close. Actually towards the very end of the brew but for the bulk of the brew The thermostatic valve works... OK, but it's not able to achieve a steady equilibrium as evidenced by the fact that it repeatedly opens and closes throughout the brew rather than settling in at a somewhat fixed position. Each time the valve opened the output temperature and once it closed the temperature rose again. But the world works in averages so I'm happy to call a 20 degree range "pretty good." If you're wondering why the valve has that little hole in it, well that's simply there to keep water from pooling inside the machine and getting... nasty. A clever solution, as I learned the hard way, water will always flow through this. The instructions actually say that the coffee before you pour in the water. Then you need to pour it in quickly, and return Basically, the coffee buys you some time as it absorbs but you don't have much before it's saturated So hurry up! Calling this automatic is quite a stretch if you ask me. If you're thinking that the average consumer probably shouldn't be trusted with a 1500W heating element sealed inside of a plastic shell, well so were the designers of this as there is in fact But it's simply there to cut power to it when it runs dry. And that was also implemented quite cleverly! The thermostat lives here, right below the As the machine brews, cold water keeps landing But once it's out of water, well that cooling action no longer works and the heating element, through this bonding clip here, will quickly heat up the thermostat so it trips, Putting the thermostat right below the water inlet if you want to brew another pot immediately So now let's move onto the design refinement At some point in the '80s, in favor of a much simpler one. At first glance this modern brewer may look more complicated. Now the water is at the back of the machine and it needs to be pumped up to the top to reach the coffee grounds. Pump sounds expensive. But as it turns out, one method of pumping water requires just two things: a one-way valve and a tube that gets hot. This arrangement is called a bubble pump and as longtime viewers of The Engineer Guy will know. That's two mentions in as many videos! We miss you, Bill! At the bottom of the water reservoir, at the intake, is a check valve. Water can flow downward through it, but the valve prevents flow in the opposite direction. After passing through the valve it ends up At the other end of that tube is some more tubing which leads up the back of the coffee maker and into the sprayer, Passing electric current through the heating element, and thus making the tube containing the water frightfully hot, will quite quickly cause the small amount of water in there to boil. Once it does, well some of the water vaporizes and bubbles of water vapor form inside the tube. That increase in volume also increases the pressure inside the tube. The tube isn't sealed so it's not like but the bubbles of water vapor need to go somewhere! And since they're confined in a narrow tube, they can only move by pushing water out of their way. However, the check valve prevents the water That leaves the water with only one path to relieve the pressure, which is up this tube and out the sprayer. Each little burst of water that leaves the sprayer and once that slug of water is out, so cold water from the reservoir will now fall into the tube through the check valve and replace the water that just left. That water then gets hot enough to boil, bubbles form, pressure increases, the valve closes, and another slug of hot water comes out the sprayer. This process repeats over and over again, bubbles gurgling and the check-valve clicking Since the heating element is in contact with the pumping action begins almost immediately. Even with ice-cold water in the tank, between switching the coffee maker on and hot water hitting It's only heating a few milliliters of water at a time, thus it nearly instantly starts to boil. And with a constant supply of new water entering the coffee maker continuously moves water through itself as it heats it. The design just... works! It's amazingly effective for how simple it is. Since it moves water through itself by boiling it, that may make you wonder about the exit temperature. If Vince Marotta was so concerned with brewing Truthfully I don't know that he did, but in practice, the water that leaves isn't quite boiling. A number of factors influence the exit temperature. You'll notice that in this machine the tube That cools the water that travels up through With my very definitely scientific testing equipment I found that the brew starts at about 170 Fahrenheit and slowly creeps up to about 190, probably as a result of the water level dropping There are probably other factors influencing this as well, such as the sprayer's shape and tubing diameter, and I imagine these were at one point tinkered with to produce a more or less ideal brew - and you'll see why I think that shortly. But regardless, the exit temperature never quite reaches boiling. Another interesting side-effect of pumping is a function of how powerful the heating element is. And since brewing coffee shouldn't be done we don't actually want a very powerful heating element. If this were as powerful as one of those British kettles, it would push the 60 fluid ounces of a 12 cup coffee maker not enough time for a thorough brew. And yes, in coffee maker land, a cup is Now, to attain a more thorough brew, a much more This coffee maker runs at about 850 watts, which slows it down to just under an 11 minute brew when making a full pot. &quot;Now wait,&quot; I hear you say. &quot;Didn't the original design pull 1,500 watts or so?&quot; Yes, and that's why I wanted to investigate it. As we've discussed previously, energy is energy and water is water. More power means faster heating, so in theory And indeed this does brew coffee significantly It took the new machine 10 minutes and 10 seconds but Granpda Coffee only needed Could it be that the older Mr. Coffee models Or perhaps is the longer brew an improvement? Naturally I devised a taste test using otherwise identical setups - same water, same coffee, same amount - to the gram - same filters, between the same two mugs and... I hon... I can't taste a difference. These taste exactly the same to me. It's like I'm drinking two cups of the same coffee. Now I don't claim to have the most phosisticated taste, but I also don't want to sell myself too short, either. I start to notice a difference in my everyday coffee by about the third day after opening a new can, and it's whole bean coffee. By the time I'm at the end of the can it's VERY different coffee - in fact opening the next one is always a delightful experience. So while, yeah, I'm not above a cup of Folgers now and again, I'm pretty sure I could at least notice some difference. But between these two coffee makers, I couldn't. Looking at some old Mr. Coffee models with the bubble pump design I can see that those were also slowed down This suggests to me that with the change to bubble pump technology it required a slower brew to get the same brewing characteristics However, it may have also solved another problem. Eagle-eyed viewers may have noticed the This also intrigued me! The box claimed that this revolutionary new when brewing smaller amounts as it helped maintain a uniform stack height no matter how many cups you were making. See, changing the setting moves these little to keep the coffee stacked more vertically. Pretty clever. Apparently this feature was introduced during a coffee shortage. So I did another comparison, making four cups in both machines save for this thing set to four cups and... I feel like there is a difference but it's very small. Like, it's still, there's... to me hardly a perceptible difference between these two coffees. They both taste like Folgers. [laughs] If this pinching brew basket did anything I would have expected the older machine's coffee to taste a little stronger but... nope. These were once again imperceptibly different to me, and as a matter of fact they seemed to taste exactly as they did However, it may still be the case that had that this would have tasted weaker. Perhaps the speed of the brew in the original as a matter of fact the instructions seem I'm still not ruling it out as nothing but a gimmick, And maybe it would turn out that simply slowing Honestly I'm more than a little surprised I couldn't make out a difference I was starting to doubt my senses quite frankly this time with a small, four-cup coffee maker pitted This time there was a noticeable difference to me. This one might be a touch... stronger. Yeah this, I think this is very very slightly stronger. A little bit more bitter. Yeah I prefer this one, actually. This is a little bit better. The smaller machine had a slightly harsher perhaps extracting more acids. What caused that difference? I dunno, it could be that the water in this one hits the coffee It could be that the filter basket is smaller in this one. It could be that the small machine is slightly slower, or it may have been that its markings on the Yes I know I should have used a beaker or something but the important thing is I detected a difference! It was slight, but I detected it! So I think I can safely say these two large Anyway, we got way off track, uh, let's talk about the hot plate again. As we saw in the early Mr. Coffee machines, the hot plate was added-on separately from the core brewing function. But as competition heated up and costs demanded getting cut, a very elegant refinement was made. Modern designs use the same heating element The tube which heats the water for brewing just so happens to be bonded to the bottom of the hot plate. Since metal's generally quite good at conducting heat through itself, a single heating element can perform both the brewing Now you might think this is a problem. 850 watts is a lot of power for such a small surface, However, while brewing, the heat produced If you've seen, oh I dunno, any of my videos you may remember that it takes a lot of energy to boil a liquid which we call the, say it with me now! Latent heat of vaporization. So long as there's water in this tube, It's not physically possible. Once it's done brewing and there's no more water in that tube, though, well now we have a problem. After boiling off what little water remains the hot plate will quickly become a way-too-hot plate So that's what we do. A thermostat set just a wee bit higher than is bonded to the hot plate right here and wired in with the heating element. Once it's out of water and the hot plate the thermostat will open with a click, This thermostat has essentially the same job but by incorporating it in this way, it can do double duty as a temperature regulator for the hot plate. Once it cools off, the circuit will close again for a brief while, bringing the hot plate back into the territory of hot. That clicking and heating and heating and clicking will repeat again and again and again and again. That is until you shut off the coffee maker, Now you may have already noticed something about this design. It's absurdly simple. And that means it's absurdly cheap to manufacture. The original Mr. Coffee, without all these cost refinements, retailed for $39.99 in 1972, But people were gladly willing to pay that and made terrible coffee. It's the fastest coffee maker you can buy. With a patented system that gives you perfectly brewed coffee in seconds. Coffee that tastes better than percolated. This was at one point very fancy. Once you taste this.... You'll know why Mr. Coffee is the #1 selling drip coffee maker. However, as the design was refined over the reasons, well drip machines got cheap pretty fast. These days, a basic one like this will set you back a whole, like $20. And if you're willing to stoop to Walmart store brand, Well, OK, $13 if you want a full-size 12 cup machine. But this one is still under ten bucks. This is an older Rival-branded model but it's clearly the same machine and I actually use this here at the studio and wouldn't ya know it, it makes pretty good coffee! Is it an excellent cup of coffee? No! Far from it. But there are only so many things I'm willing and coffee ain't one of 'em. There are hacks and techniques some people and there are plenty of people who would never ever stoop to this level. But taste is among the most subjective things. I have gone through the rigmarole and spent among them the Aeropress, a French press, a few K-cup and other single-serve machines, and several other drip machines across but I keep coming back to the same conclusion. I've found a coffee I really like, I grind it the same every day, and it goes in this cheap bit of plastic a fine cup of joe. However, the one piece of advice I will give regarding these coffee makers, and I've said this before, is that if you're leaving it on to keep the coffee warm you are ruining the coffee in the carafe! Don't do that. I know it's tempting and after all that's but you really oughta shut it off when it's done brewing. If you're late to your second (or third) (or fourth) cup, I promise it's gonna taste so much better if you just throw it in the microwave for a bit to warm it back up. I'm of the belief that a lot of the bad come from the terribly burnt flavor the coffee Again. Don't do it! I also value how easy these are to use. It's just get a filter, put it in the brew basket (or cone, some drip machines use cone-style filters), then add your coffee, put water in the thing, and turn it on. Just wait a few minutes and coffee happens! I do care enough to measure the amount of and even then it only takes about 90 seconds, I could probably do it in less than a minute You might not think this is the best way to make coffee, Because this process is so simple it's hard to screw it up. There might be subtle differences from machine to machine, particularly with how hot the water reaching the grounds actually is. Depending on the shape and size of the heating tube, the exit temperature could be different between models and that will affect taste. I can't say I've noticed too much variation myself, quite honestly, but again I don't claim to have very phosisticated taste. Another benefit of the simplicity here is typically only needing a descaling every now and then. I just run vinegar through it as needed. However I have noticed an increasingly common problem as these age. The thermostats controlling the hot plate tripping in the middle of a brew. This doesn't mean it won't make coffee When working properly, the thermostat should but if it becomes a little too sensitive it'll start clicking off during the brew, That can easily double the time it takes to It might also result in an over-extracted brew but frankly I've never noticed that. I have solved this by descaling the machine, suggesting a layer of calcium deposits within the tube insulated the water a bit from the heating element's heat But getting rid of that layer of scale hasn't always worked, So far though, they've always been four cup machines. It's never happened to a big one. Anyway, I think I've gone on long enough. I am a vociferous defender of the humble drip brewer because it's simple, it's effective, it's cheap, it's reliable, As with most things, yeah you can optimize your And if you have fun doing that - by all means! That's important. But, uh, well what I'm optimizing for is the effort to flavor ratio, and there's a strong bias towards keeping the effort part *low*. I really liked the coffee I got from my Aeropress and I will happily admit it was better than what these can make, but that thing was just way too fiddly. I found my sweet spot with these things and I'm stickin' to 'em. I do eventually need to try a Moka pot, though. I wonder where I can find one of those... drip-brewedly smooth jazz ...available at a typical grocery store... just Woah. I completely - What? Your typical grocery store might have maybe I thought I put you on silent! Thanks to... heh! Are all there is to it. The water inlet at the top of ovv ov the machine Which is vaguely funnel shaped down to the th the the bleugh That.. is that still in there? Oh shoot. That may be why it was making noises. OK, well we're gonna hide you there. Are probably other factors influing this as well. Influing? Influing? Apparently this feature was introduced during a coffee shortage. This is really wet. Why don't we just get all the water out of here. Look, I just want repeatable, reliable coffee which isn't too hard to make. I know, I know, lots of y'all are gonna be like &quot;I don't understand how you can use such a terrible method for making coffee&quot; but like, we've been over this. I'm a Midwesterner. Our standards are low and we're proud of it!