In early 2007, this silent, was uploaded by a user on a conspiracy- The user claimed the video depicted somewhere off the coast of Mexico They had supposedly gained access to the video and claimed to have smuggled the potentially While some members of the forum others were not so easily convinced. For instance, the video was hosted on a website which led some to denounce the clip Even those who believed still complained that it was Over a decade later, this long-forgotten as part of an article by The New York Times. The video was now linked to and was even corroborated What had initially been turned out to be real. The video was said to depict a genuine encounter and some sort of unidentified craft. A second black-and-white video of a similar was also featured Except, this one had sound. These two videos, along with a third spread across the internet like wildfire. Comment sections and discussion threads were about aliens and paranormal phenomena. Skeptics, meanwhile, took it upon themselves in the hopes of uncovering some neglected clue Any lingering doubts vanished with the release of an official statement confirming that the videos involving unidentified aerial phenomena. So, what exactly are we looking at? The first video was recorded off the northwestern The story behind it has been recounted by and it goes like this. In early November of 2004, a naval strike group, was conducting predeployment exercises Starting around November 10, radar technicians were puzzled by a series of unidentified The tracks did not resemble and would sporadically appear Suspecting a malfunction of some sort, the recently upgraded SPY-1 radar system Once the system was brought back online, however, Among those onboard were who was an expert and had 18 years' worth of experience Day observed firsthand alternated between slightly strange Sometimes, a cluster of tracks would appear They were flying too high to be birds, and did not follow Other times, they would seemingly and drop all the way down to sea-level These phenomena continued for several days. And every time they reappeared, and use a pair of to see these tiny specks On the morning of November 14, were gearing up for a scheduled They had not yet been informed of the It was a cloudless day, and the sea was calm, One of them was who was flying a single-seat F/A-18 fighter jet He was instructed to investigate an unknown The Princeton also wanted to know to which the answer was no. Kurth made his way to the specified coordinates As he looked down his attention was immediately drawn Kurth claims to have seen which appeared as though something It reminded him of a submarine or ship The Nimitz strike group did include a The Louisville was in the vicinity so the churning may indeed If not, then, whatever was in the water, managed to evade detection Kurth was soon joined by a squadron The lead aircraft of which was piloted by Much like Kurth, Fravor claims which he described as having He thought it resembled a downed airliner and described its size While Kurth eventually Fravor and his wingman As they began their descent, moving erratically At first, they thought it could be a helicopter, In fact, it was perfectly smooth. No markings, no exhaust, The UFO appeared to maintain but made rapid lateral movements According to Fravor, it was a bit smaller than As Fravor continued to descend, and kept watching from above. Flying in a spiraling downward motion, until, suddenly, and began to climb Both of them were now flying in a circle. The UFO was coming up In an effort to close the distance between them, before the UFO rapidly accelerated and disappeared Asthey looked down towards the ocean, Okay, but what about the video? Well, so Fravor and his wingman They landed and ran into a different flight crew, They told them what they had seen and to be Soon thereafter, another tandem-seated F-18 This time, Advanced Targeting Forward-Looking Infrared This ATFLIR pod is controlled by the and the back-seater of this flight A few minutes after departing the Nimitz, The unknown target was directly ahead, The target's behavior was erratic and unpredictable. Its altitude and airspeed According to Underwood, it simply did not At some point, Underwood managed to get a and this is when the much-publicized video At the beginning of the video, Underwood then switches to visible light, revealing an out-of-focus, He then switches back to infrared and alternates between two different Not much happens when the UFO suddenly disappears As the target was too far away neither Underwood nor his pilot The Princeton continued to detect anomalous and, according to Senior Chief Day, near the Mexican island of Guadalupe. In complete isolation, utterly divorced this video is extraordinarily... ...unremarkable. It's a fuzzy blob It's only when you place it in the middle that the video itself When skeptics and debunkers I understand why many are Because the witness accounts say otherwise. A distant airplane can't just zip around the sky It doesn't make any sense. Unfortunately, we don't see any of those In fact, this fuzzy blob does not do when it suddenly disappears Now, some claim this is due to but it could also be something as simple It's difficult to tell. Underwood himself is uncertain as he never made visual contact. The witness accounts, meanwhile, If any regular person claimed to have seen moving erratically in the sky, But when that same story is told by some of it makes you wonder. And it wasn't just one or two. These UFOs were either seen or tracked by dozens of experienced aviators and sailors They were seen from and tracked by one of the most sophisticated To think that all of them are lying or all seems absurd. At the same time, there is no way to verify We have no choice We don't have the radar data, nor any corroborating evidence. Well, except for this Some of the witnesses claim there was actually than the one we see today. They claim to have seen this video and that the shape of the UFO as it violently maneuvered What's interesting about this claim is that, the anonymous leaker claimed they had four Two of them were said to be shorter, and supposedly showed Unfortunately, this extended version And, if some of the witnesses are to be believed, You see, on the evening of November 14, were supposedly erased. Witnesses claim that two men arrived via helicopter before having all the Witnesses from both the Nimitz and insist that nothing like it This has understandably lead to speculations That these sightings were that of While the US military is undoubtedly experimenting it is difficult to believe they possess If so, they would possess technology so far it would be akin to magic. And this was back in 2004. Don't get me wrong, [CURRENT YEAR] but it was still aggressively 2004. *2004-ness intensifies* I really don't know what to make of this story. After reading, watching, and listening to so many I'm left with the distinct impression The video, on the other hand, Sure, this fuzzy blob may be unidentified, The second and third videos were recorded off the southeastern coast While those who recorded the footage some of their crewmates And according to them, In the summer of 2014, a naval strike group, was conducting predeployment exercises Much like with the Nimitz encounters, the first sign of trouble Following a fleet-wide upgrade pilots had begun to pick up unidentified targets The tracks were initially but their behavior was unlike Gravity-defying maneuvers, hypersonic velocities, Attempts to intercept these UFOs Lieutenant Danny Aucoin claims that, he tried but failed Then, one day, a squadron is said to have with one of these UFOs. The two jets had been flying in tandem, no when something flew That something was oddly described as a cube Lieutenant Ryan Graves, who spoke to claims the experience So much so, the squadron filed According to Graves, These UFOs were allegedly seen and could remain airborne Yet, despite growing concerns training missions continued By early 2015, the Roosevelt strike group which is when the two, now famous, Both of which are said to be short clips taken We don't know much about the circumstances but let's take a look at the first one. So there are a few things If we ignore the audio for a moment the thing that immediately stands out I use the word &quot;apparent&quot; because some debunkers You see, the ATFLIR pod is equipped with It's meant to counteract so that the orientation of the image Also know as image stabilization. What may not be stabilized, however, are certain You can even try this yourself. Aim a camera towards a light source, rotate the camera, and there you go. The orientation while these spokes of light So, much like how the light from this light bulb the infrared radiation from this UFO In other words, debunkers claim it is the camera, Not the UFO itself. While this explanation seems things get a bit more confusing If this rotation is merely why would the two pilots Surely, they, if anyone, And they're not alone. Both Lieutenant Graves and Aucoin Furthermore, an expert on the ATFLIR system that this is not an optical illusion. But this is not the only puzzling comment So the radar is supposedly detecting which are all traveling crosswind. I mean, like the blooming exhaust of a jet engine, these comments don't make I would love to hear what these two pilots Until then, all we can do is speculate. This video may seem very striking at first, Once again, let's ignore the audio for a moment Unlike the previous two, the UFO in this one So, the ocean below is radiating more heat It may look as though the UFO is traveling In short, aircraft go fast. Camera fixed on not-so-fast UFO. UFO appear to go fast. Some say the UFO is near sea-level, and therefore But we can actually derive its altitude and find that that is not true. Everything seen in this video or some sort of debris The commentary by the pilots, however, does, I mean, it seems odd for the pilots to be but without hearing from the pilots themselves, The person responsible for making is a man named Luis Elizondo. Beginning in 2008, Elizondo was the head to investigate UFO sightings known as the By late 2017, however, with the government's lack of interest that he decided to resign. In his resignation letter, Elizondo writes are staunchly opposed to UFO research. That inflexible mindsets and political contention He portrays the government as virtually unconcerned could pose a threat So much so that he felt it necessary This seemingly uncaring attitude was also noted by witnesses of both For instance, Lieutenant Ryan Graves recalled seemed completely unfazed by this video. On the day when it was captured, then walked away Some of the senior officers are said to have had These are very bizarre reactions You'd think they'd want to make sure The near midair collision reported by seems especially concerning. To account for this apparent disinterest, surrounding the topic of UFOs. Regardless of how inaccurate it may be, become synonymous So much so, specifically to avoid Whether sightings go the argument is that people because they're concerned No one wants to be seen as a nutcase Others believe there could be something That no serious action is taken because a is responsible for the sightings. Even some of the witnesses For instance, Sean Cahill, who was the perceived the inaction of senior staff as a clear sign But, as previously mentioned, could have taken place Were talking about it would barely make sense Vehicles that can exceed the speed of sound Vehicles that can drop or climb to virtually Vehicles that can violently change direction None of that should be possible, claim they witnessed the impossible. The least uncomfortable solution, therefore, Sure, the witnesses are credible, Everything from optical illusions could be used to cast doubt And without any corroborating evidence, that is not a difficult task. As such, many government officials because they genuinely believe Personally, I'm left feeling very conflicted. On the one hand, On the other, I find this grainy trilogy of Sure, the videos are fascinating. But they're also far too ambiguous I highly recommend that you seek out so that you can judge for yourself. This is very much a developing situation. By the time you watch this video, chances are, According to Elizondo, the Nimitz- and Roosevelt Sightings by military personnel it's just that we rarely I can only hope that more evidence and that, at least, one video Something that is unidentified not because it is too distant, too small, No, but something truly extraordinary. That's what I want to see.