(upbeat music) - [Narrator] 3000 years ago King Solomon built a In it was said to be the The Ark of the Covenant, the very stones God gave According to the Bible, the Ark had unimaginable - In ancient times when anybody came in contact bad things happened to them. - [Narrator] But the Ark and the Stone Tablets What happened to them and remain among the Bible's But now one man thinks - I'm absolutely where the contents (instrumental music) - [Narrator] Jerusalem, the soul of the Western world. (ominous music) The Golden Dome of the Rock It is one of the holiest From here the Prophet Muhammad is said to have (ominous music continues) And for thousands of this was also the side of King the last place on earth the Ark of the Covenant were ever seen. - [Narrator 1] And - [Narrator] With these words, God commanded the children to receive the 10 commandments. - [Narrator 1] And thou the testimony which - [Narrator] It's awesome Bolt of lightning in plains, leveling mountains and The Bible tells us God gave for building the Ark. Its contents, The were said to be the ever to pass directly From Moses to Solomon, the Ark remained most sacred while it's great powers to victory after Solomon built the first to house the Ark. (ominous music) And it was here in the the Holy of Holies, until it vanished and from all historical record. Mike Sanders is a who has spent half a lifetime that events in the Bible can be reconciled And now, Sanders believes he and God's 10 commandments Over thousands of years, there's been endless by archeologists, treasure hunters and crackpots all claiming to have solved Perhaps the most intriguing The legend begins with Queen of Sheba, who journeys to Jerusalem She's heard of his and yet meeting the great They fall in love. (ominous music) But it would be a their passion in conflict Before she left Ethiopia, Sheba vowed to return to her people and to her throne. Obligation won out over desire. It is on her journey home that When Menelik turns 20, Sheba sends him to meet For Menelik too, meeting the Even legend proves inadequate to the man who the father he never knew. Menelik is in awe And yet all too soon, he must make the return To assure his safety, send their firstborn It is only once the caravan has journeyed deep that his guardians revealed Unbeknownst to Menelik, his caravan is carrying the Ark itself. Convinced it is God's will, Menelik continues the where many believe the in the church of St. Mary's A second prominent theory has a group of Renegade in a religious dispute, fleeing with the Ark to where they build their own Two centuries later, between the Israelites on The temple is destroyed and the Israelites Some say they took Some say they returned Some say they did neither. And still other that harken back to the When Knights in shining armor ventured to the Holy Land to battle the Muslim It was the time of King of Robin hood and It was also the time of a known as the Knights Templar who were said to as a pretense for finding One account has the knights where it is said they dug but found nothing. And yet the story is that they actually beneath the Dome of the Rock, transported it back to and have kept it hidden deep beneath the Cathedral Still others say the Ark will be found on the Jordanian not far from the location Some actually believe the legend a snake filled Well of Souls Still others believe it was to hide the sacred Ark A site sacred to three faiths, this would be the battleground and the forces of Ron Wyatt, a claim to have seen but died before (ominous music) And now Mike Sanders He picks up the trail - What is quite there is nothing in the that the Ark disappeared. It seems to just but there are clues and they - [Narrator] According five years after the an Egyptian Pharaoh invaded the Holy Land and In return for sparing the city, Shishak demanded all in the Kingdom of Judah. - Shishak comes to the with a vast army of 60,000 foot and he sends his &quot;I control totally your Give me all the and all the treasures - [Narrator] to spare the Holy city the people gave including the treasure - And all means all. It is absolutely certain that Shishak took all the and all means the and the contents of the Ark. - [Narrator] If of the Bible is correct, history has been in all the wrong places. But if Shishak took what did he do with it? And who was the Egyptian (ominous music) If Mike Sanders is correct, was taken from King by the Pharaoh known in then Sanders must and what he did with There is only one place The world's greatest collection is found here in Sanders has come What would a conquering with the loot from (ominous music) These small ceremonial were discovered of ancient Egyptian temples. In that custom, there Known as foundation deposits, they might shed light on what he took out of Israel. An expert on foundation deposits is the former director of - The foundation deposits are which the ancient Egyptian Kings from the beginning were putting under some Whatever you find in you find the names of the Kings who built or who ordered and the God to whom and some other information telling us what kinds were used in these buildings, They were putting this - In the four corners. - In the four corners. - So it was in fact, most had foundation deposits - Temples, pyramids, for the God or for the King. - [Narrator] Sanders the stones from and placed them in of one of his own temples. - He would have thought that, &quot;Ah, we've got the let's take the stones or and put it in our in our foundation deposit.&quot; - [Narrator] If he these priceless biblical relics, the actual stones God might remain today precisely nearly 3000 years ago. (ominous music) The ancient city of Luxor Across the river is with tombs and monuments of many of Egypt's The next stage of Sanders search is to find out more referred to in the old (ominous music) Written on these walls are But with virtually all represented here, of a Pharaoh named Shishak. In fact, most scholars agree, there never was a Sanders though, is undaunted and thinks he's discovered Shishak it turns out, given an Egyptian King It's not an Egyptian But Saunders must still exactly which Here, Sanders' theory could rewrite hundreds of (ominous music) For centuries, the Pharaoh referred to was the 22nd dynasty He too invaded the Holy Land and many felt the made a strong case. But Saunders isn't so sure. Once again the clue he needs would be found in (ominous music) In the biblical account his army invaded only of the Kingdom of Judah leaving the Northern territory, All the other Egyptian Pharaohs had attacked both - So we have to look who never attacked the North, to attack the South. If you go through the list of who ever left Egypt, who invaded the North. You have Ramesses II You have Shoshenq who He did not invade the South. If you go through all you're left with only one who only attacked the South and that is Ramesses III. So it looks as though (ominous music) - [Narrator] he has identified the man who invaded the Holy Land He is now certain that the was the Pharaoh Ramesses III. (ominous music) Today Sanders is about to meet the legendary Museum authorities are that Ramesses III is Shishak and have agreed to show him it rarely sees the light of day. - Now we are going to see one of the most famous (gasps) - So that's Ramesses III. - This is Ramesses III. - He's remarkably - Yes, he is in very good (ominous music) - Do we have any idea how old from the mummy himself rather than from the - Our information is very but you can say he's around and from the thickness of (ominous music) - If only mommies speak of how that Ark captured. (ominous music continues) - [Narrator] Meeting has given new hope to find the Ark of the Covenant and the holy Tablets of Stone. - There's no question that would be the most and even political discovery, not only of the decade, the - [Narrator] If Ramesses where might he have Could Mike Sanders to actually finding (ominous music) Throughout history, many left magnificent legacies. Egyptian Pharaohs Medinet Habu, the of Ramesses III. Mike Sanders has centuries of ancient history that the biblical was in fact, Ramesses III. Here, Sanders hopes to pick up to the great King's the Ark of the Covenant and the Tablets bearing Professor Mohammad Salem has offered to guide Ramesses III was one last great warrior Kings. His 31 year reign saw almost of Egypt neighboring lands. Among so many images of one prize seems to stand - I'm here in the Mortuary Temple of Ramesses III and the most exciting for is this wall where and it's been carried and above that golden box is a solar representation And it doesn't take too much to see that that golden box carried just as the Bible and above it wing cherubim, exactly like the - [Narrator] According the Ark of the with two winged creatures Sanders believes he's He claims he's the first to Solomon's great and the Ark of the Covenant. - There's one here, one further down extra ones. This whole chamber be dedicated in representing obtained his treasure and probably the most magnificent - [Narrator] Sanders was built by Ramesses and his great He also suggests it's may have been brought this far, a glorious golden spoil of and perhaps later but no one really knows. But what if it's the Tablets God gave Medinet Habu was built decades after the looting of Jerusalem. Sanders believes it's unlikely to the Holy stones for so Sanders thinks it's more likely Ramesses would have buried So Sanders must now find one of the Pharaoh's closer to the time he Once again, the ancient records Written by Ramesses' sons, recorded all of the Amid the impressive chronicle, one anomaly has gone virtually - What stood out to me was had built a temple which is not a normal occurrence in a place called - [Narrator] And there The Papyrus reveals was built by Ramesses III at the site where he received from the Kingdom of Judah. - For the Egyptian King to build a temple purposefully just to it must've been a - [Narrator] the most likely source was Jerusalem sacred treasure, the contents of including the Ark What the candidate for Sanders needs to find the at Djahi Pa-Kanaan. - Very simply, I to go to the at Times look in the index and see if there was anywhere in the index. And she comes back &quot;Well there is a Zahiriya will that do?&quot; I said, &quot;Well, absolutely. Let's find out where At which point amazingly by the jumped up because was it exactly the spot would stop his armies if he were marching - [Narrator] Could this Sanders has been looking for? If his theories are correct, then finding this finding the actual (ominous music) Finding the Ark of the Covenant has haunted man for From crusading knights, to From Temple Mount to the Well but hardcore evidence has Is Mike Sanders finally on the trail of the The temple Ramesses built Djahiriya was the natural place for an Egyptian army to camp after crossing the desert before the terrain becomes and the army would be That would also make this town the logical site for after his great conquest. - If the temple is there, the foundation deposits of the and the stones may in the temple deposits (ominous music) - [Narrator] But fighting doesn't just belong Djahiriya is situated most active political Control of this area was only to the Palestinian authority and satisfying is not high among The Palestinian Ministry of has given Sanders permission for a preliminary but they can't - The children still stone cars, we hope they won't stone us, but in any adventure, and one has to face that this is much too to worry about any dangers There's the sign. There we are. After Yes, how many people - That's about 18,000 people. - It's a bustling little town. - There's a good market here for the veterans who are - Yes. Everybody the first place to It's like so that so that - [Narrator] Sanders search Even assuming he is correct and this is where after thousands of years, it's possible no trace remains (ominous music) But Sanders hunches Evidence suggests where Ramesses camped - So the Egyptian army would build this temple the whole of the Hebron Hills as far as the eye can see. It's a wonderful - [Narrator] New that suggest they come from - You can see a lot of and it's all from Look. You see these holes? - Yes. - Look at how nicely There's one over there with (ominous music) And then there's all Look at this, very nice. Look, the finish on here. - Yes. - It's perfectly shaped, against, look at that they built ordinary This is what they use They spent a lot of time and There was a special - [Narrator] Everywhere Sanders there was once an important - This landfill, for example, It was cut a lot earlier. It was broken before it was I don't think we can get to say that any of the but they're certainly - [Narrator] When he Sanders was concerned of any ancient buildings. Now he has the opposite problem. With so many and so much rubble, how will he ever find the foundation of one (ominous music) More than 160 years ago, an American Explorer passed through Djahiriya of an ancient Could Robinson have seen the last standing remains Robinson's tower was said to an enormous, perfectly Finding one particular is next to impossible but Sanders finally finds someone who claims - Perhaps he would know where that the nine We want to know where of all the village is. (speaking foreign language) - I want to translate now. He's talking that he thinks Hasson means in He says the number is - Good. Now, where is it? Let's go. We want to go - He thinks that's over there. - This one, it's quite large. It's not the (indistinct) (ominous music) That's a nice large cut stone - Ah. - We're going 'cause we are (ominous music) You see this came from Look at this. You see these? These came from a different, So here we go. - Yes. (ominous music) - [Narrator] Finding is an exciting discovery. It couldn't be the breakthrough that reveals the location 3000 years ago. (ominous music) - This wall is absolutely to the rest of the village. Everything else has been reused. Why? Because it's practical for builders to reuse When you're building a house, when you're building a fortress, you build a normal size blocks. It's only when you that is dedicated to a God that has some special that you use something And there, there is a nine Nobody in their right taking that block and or putting it in a fortress. And they're obviously in Nobody's ever moved them, they were built specially and this is not a fortress. This is something special. This is it. Now this was put on - That's right. - All right. This - [Narrator] Sanders part of the original building. What's more, one of its corners where a foundation deposit - And the wonderful, wonderful, is nobody has touched - I see that. - Nobody's removed that stone. If this was built there will be a foundation - [Narrator] Could this be Are the sacred Stone Tablets God gave Moses on Mount (ominous music) (instrumental music) Mike Sanders believes where the sacred contents of the Ark of the below the monument to celebrate his great Now though, he needs permission from the Palestinian Minister to dig under the cornerstone. Time is an approximate After a two-hour the Minister won't be able to Sanders uses the delay With him is Israeli who has brought the latest in subsurface radar Now they can search for a cavity under the wall without digging. - This bottom corner is where I think a So we need your How do we find out below that corner? - You would have to especially to take metals out of here because the signal is It is even good that we that this ground sloping we want to look in at an angle - Yes. - Okay? So it is perfect. - Let's do it. - Okay. (ominous music) (indistinct) (ominous music continues) Now I mark the corner. I will proceed now. (ominous music) Okay, we have Let's go to the that's something is found there. - Are you sure? - Yeah. Something. I think this is the location. You see the turn here, I see evidence to which can be a cavity. It's located only 2.3 meters which is here. Just to keep in mind that and we did not do any but still we see - [Narrator] The radar but its location doesn't It's a few yards in where a foundation but Yuri hopes more when he processes the data Confident there is Sanders returns for his delayed - He's not up here. We So we, somebody knows the way. - Yes, we can go down - [Narrator] The Minister but Sanders learns where Still no luck. By the time Sanders the Minister has Finding the Ark of the compared with Instead Saunders for more detailed results - Mike I think I have a Look, we found a second anomaly. It looked as if it is a cavity just underneath the corner - Under the corner. - Under the corner, yes. - Exactly where they used - This is the anomaly - And underneath which was-- - Underneath about 2.5 meters at a depth of about But after I posted the all of a sudden this - Amazing. - Okay? And the is roughly about three meters and it might be cavity. - Is there any if there are any - Mm-mm, not now, no. It's not possible for this frequency to receive (indistinct chatter) - [Narrator] At with the elusive Minister for - Bureaucratic nonsense (indistinct) Where did he find such a law? We can't do any No scanning, no procedures. We had permission and he said, &quot;Well, it's nothing to do with whatever they want, who cares? There's a law, there's We need to make an application. We've got to have a We got to have All we wanna do is to find the foundation deposits, they want to make a big issue. - He's my boss and I have to accept his orders. - And there's nothing - [Narrator] Like so working in this Sanders has hit a roadblock just when he believes he's on (ominous music) He's certain now that he's finding the remains of an and discovering a under one of its corners suggesting the wall was If the cavity contains a he will have proof of Egyptian temple built outside Egypt. In itself, a major contribution - I'm absolutely convinced that if the two cavities are that Ramesses III - [Narrator] Whether the 10 no one can say. But the trail of clues and revealed so much. Sanders is determined to and prove his theory - I can't give up. to what could be the of our generation. - [Narrator] For now and the name Ramesses III are added to the great including King Solomon the crusades of the and so many more. And yet, if it hasn't been could that be what the God for the location of the Ark (ominous music)