So how should we filter positive versus negative feedback? Well, there's a meta-analysis here. This is Kluger and DeNisi looking at 100 years of feedback research. And they found that what is not whether it's positive or negative, it's whether it focuses on the task or on the self. So, if I tell you that you're going to get defensive. If I tell you that your work is great, you're going to get complacent. If I tell you, here's the specific thing that I liked about your work, you're going to try to And if I tell you, here's you're going to try to So I actually think we whether the feedback is and more about how do I that's going to allow me and also overcome my weaknesses. And actually, one of the things I've learned recently is there's some, I would say a growing body that asking for feedback to get people to help you. Because when you ask for feedback, you end up getting two groups of people. You get cheerleaders and you get critics. And cheerleaders are basically Critics are attacking your worst self. What you want is a coach, which is somebody who helps you become a better version of yourself. And the way you get people to coach you is not to say gimme feedback, because they will then look at the past and tell you what you screwed What you want is to say, &quot;Can you give me advice for next time?&quot; And then they look at the future and they'll give you either or something to correct. And this is such a subtle shift that it can make a big difference. Andrew, one of the things I guess I found myself after giving speeches. I used to get off stage and say, &quot;I would love some feedback.&quot; And you get back a bunch of, &quot;Oh, you know, I really enjoyed that.&quot; Thanks, what do I do I'm trying to learn how to get better. And when I shift the question to say, &quot;What's the one thing I It's like, &quot;Oh, don't open with a joke.&quot; The audience couldn't Frequently, it's give me a little bit You focused a lot on, a but I lost the connective tissue. And those actionable suggestions are much more likely to come as opposed to an evaluation. Oh, that's so good. I think, I'm going to I've never taken a pause on... I've taken an occasional but they're very rare Oh, that's just gazillion dollar advice, because I think that everyone has an ego. We all want to perform well. We'd like to perform better over time, and negative feedback hurts, and it can hurt a little or a lot depending on But a tool like you just described, to remove some of that and actually let the information in in a way that's constructive What you described, I think is a way to create but the constructive part is Yeah. As opposed to saying, I'd like some constructive criticism, and then hoping that the criticism So you're taking control over the process in a healthy way, in a benevolent way. That's the goal. And I think the big question that comes up for a lot of okay, so I get somebody to give me advice, but it might still stink. How do I get better at And I think probably my I learned from Sheila Heen, she calls it the second score. And the idea is that when somebody gives you that's your first score. So let's say, like, in my world, they gave me a three and a half, and I want to know how I How do I get myself to focus on that? What I do is say, &quot;I want to get a 10 for how well I took the three and a half.&quot; And that's the second score. I want to evaluate myself on I think about this almost every day. Actually, can I tell you a quick story? ANDREW: Please. So, when I was right out of my doctorate, I got asked to teach a motivation class for Air Force generals and colonels. I was 25, I think, 25, 26. They're all twice my age, they've got thousands of flying hours, they've got billion dollar budgets. They've got, well, this community well, their nicknames are Stryker and Sand Dune, and I was extremely intimidated. So I walked in there and I And I started talking and all my research experience. And the feedback at the end of the four hour session was brutal. I remember reading the feedback forms and one person had written, &quot;More knowledge in the I was like, &quot;True, I And then another wrote, &quot;I but I trust the instructor And that was devastating. I was like, &quot; I would really like to transform into an actual bear and hibernate for the next four months, and then maybe I'll come out I didn't have that option. I had committed to teach a So all I could do was figure out how am I going to hear this feedback and really take it seriously? And I guess I applied a and I said, &quot;All right, that are going to come and I've got to prove to them And one of the things was that they valued humility, and I had led with too much confidence, which was just an insecurity mast. And so I thought, &quot;Okay, how And walked in, looked at the room, and I said, &quot;I know what What could I possibly learn from a professor who's 12 years old. Dead silence. I'm like, &quot;Oh no, this is And then one of the guys and he's like, &quot;Oh, that's ridiculous, you got to be at least 13.&quot; Everybody started And I think what I was trying to do was to take myself off the pedestal, and say, &quot;Look, I heard your feedback. You told me that you didn't think I had anything to teach you, and I've got to acknowledge and be open to the fact that that's true. And so I want to come in and I want to see if I where we all end up learning.&quot; And the feedback was night One person wrote, &quot;Although the professor dealt with the evidence in an interesting way.&quot; I was like, &quot;All right, I'll take it.&quot; And there was something &quot;Look, I can't change the fact What I can do is convince them that I was motivated to I love this concept of the second score, and thank you for sharing that story. I think, very often we hear if people didn't catch the math in there, you were a PhD by age 25, and as far as I know, the youngest tenured So these are outrageously impressive metrics of accomplishment. But for you to share a story about, less than optimal performance and the incorporation of this second score that you're referring to, I Because I think that as much as we hear, &quot;Oh, Jordan, took many more free throws and everyone just thinks People think about all the ones he made. That's the way the game works, that's the way the mind So, I appreciate that with a personal example. I too would want to turn but I think that it's really and it makes me think of getting a 10 at bringing As it were, is really into a verb process. Over and over again, as I do this podcast, and as I've taught in the classroom, what I keep coming back to is this idea that we should be focusing more And we love to name things but when we start living life through a lot of verb processes, so instead of being fit, and we think about or running as a thing, we really think about It becomes less daunting But the idea that and this has this, there are mathematical but where you're basically talking about, like an integral right, as opposed to just some value, right? You're talking about Yeah. Right, so you're a three and a half, how are you going to get to a And you're dealing with being back on your heel psychologically from getting all this battering feedback from these highly all these Germans and literally wearing them So you, for you to see. And it's really about creating, it's about taking control from the three onward. And it's really a forward So I don't think we're being an unduly psychological here analytic. I mean, I think it's really and a noun and turning it into a verb. Yeah, I think that's right. I'm reminded the great who said that verbing weirds language, so it's harder to talk I swear I didn't steal but if it came from Homer Simpson, like I am all for it. You have to, I mean, that's incredible. Small brain, but given and people have seen the No, I think you're onto something. I think verbs are active and we're drawn to them, I think, yeah, a lot of times people and they just, like, they end of themselves and they, And what we want to try which is easier said than done, is to say, &quot;All right, like, the or advice is not to shame my past self is to educate my future self.&quot; Which I think is very connected to a lot of the work on growth mindset that you've been talking about. And there's been a around can we teach growth And I think what, what that look, you can't expect someone to listen to one podcast episode or and magically believe that they're capable of learning anything at any moment. This is something we have to actively work on on a daily basis. And part of doing that is thinking about this loop and saying, &quot;All right, the person that I'm competing and I want to get a than I was yesterday.&quot; [MUSIC PLAYING]