Alright guys, You know, when Noah and his family stepped off What was the world like for them, How did they survive in this new world? And why did it becomes so And then, what about the animals - And what about the dinosaurs, or dragons, did not exist back then. interesting and amazing video. Alright, now in the previous video, we talked in the time before the flood. when the fallen angels came down. And, men who only thought evil continually until But then, we see the same thing People became more and more evil at the Tower of Babel, especially. Did some of the ancient knowledge somehow worship other gods, AKA fallen angels? Because we do know that the people after the Secret sciences. ancient writings called the seven sacred sciences, Some of this knowledge was just about basic know the Babylonians, Acadians and Assyrians buildings like ziggurats and might even have kept these legends or cultures alive. Freemasons, it is interesting that the Freemasons knowledge - first moved from Babylon and Syria of how that could have happened - but I don't It is interesting, though, that the Bible does It doesn't call it by its name, but who practiced strange things, like magic. [Exodus 7:11] Why were these men called &quot;wise&quot;? And also the sorcerers. So the Bible does mention secret arts. [Exodus 7:12] Now, in the past, people who rebelled against People also used knowledge for good. perverted it - especially in a time And we know that a lot of people followed they've gained these secret arts or the Many ancient writings actually say that to sleep with the woman of earth to create knowledge - craft - arts - to people to teach them But that they now serve these demons as How astronomy was perverted to astrology and Chaldeans, or the Magi even in the time of Jesus. These wise men - these Magi - because of the star. [Matthew 2:1-2 ] So, is this part of the reason why the Shortly after the flood at the secret perverted ancient knowledge? where did they get the knowledge from? somehow survive the flood on stone tablets? children pervert the good knowledge of line all the way from Adam, who, of course Or what happened? things as well - what was the world really like? greatly repopulate the Earth? dragons before 1841? Alright, so let's start at the beginning. Before the flood, he was the According to Genesis 5: Ten generations. about Noah that you might not know. Even his name - Noah - meant something special. [Genesis 5:28-29] So Lamech had knowledge about Noah because of what he said his name means Now, Noah might have also looked different. Lamech said this or called him Noah. But one of the Apocrypha books does The book of Enoch says this about his description: a rose. The hair, of whose head was white like When he opened them, he illuminated Interesting, isn't it? every time when I quote from something that is other ancient writers said, it is interesting But we're not 100 percent sure. which has been inspired by God and [2 Timothy 3:16-17] Now you know the meaning of Noah. the names of Adam, Seth, and the whole line until And if you put it together it makes a sentence. Messiah Jesus Christ. Adam means man. Enosh mortal. Mahalalel the blessed one. Enoch teaching. Lamech - the despairing Now read it with me altogether. This shows the fall of humankind of man. The Blessed One shall come down teaching. His death shall bring the And that's exactly what Jesus came to do. so that we can enter His eternal rest. obey the law just from their own will, right? They couldn't. Sin just took over. But then Jesus came to die And now, those who look to Him, who believe in So now God the Father, when He What He did for us on the cross. but not only that - if we accept He makes us a new creation. ability to have a relationship with God again. sin came into the world. now we also have the new spiritual nature in us. spirit and in truth, because God is Spirit. In Genesis Chapter 7, God gave Noah And this is what happened. [Genesis 7:11] So the water did not just come from the heavens And it's very interesting that recently they And Stephen Jacobson from Northwestern says it's good evidence the He's right. world that we live in now, has a lot more water [Genesis 7:13-14] I'll tell you in a few According to its kind. So all the animals that lived before the didn't all just go on the ark. And it says that four times in Verse 14 for a after hundreds of years you but it's the same kind. we get different types of horses today but We also get many types of dogs but So was it possible to fit them all on the ark. All the different kinds of animals and beasts. What about the dinosaurs or Well, I answered the same question So every animal of its kind. Now you might say, Daniel, Dinosaurs are huge. huge dinosaurs could have been brought on the That might be true - not huge dinosaurs It will be much easier and wiser to take small so that after the flood they could have Big dinosaurs were big. depending on their kind, right? Small. egg fossil is that they found of dinosaurs? the size of a football. That's it. So imagine the size of a dinosaur that could And then before the flood they had Remember lizards, they never stop growing, and so how all the people got at that time as well. Some over 900 years old. The Ark Encounter in northern Kentucky shows us they created the ark replica according And so doing proved that it was possible to Take some time and go visit Alright now, if you want to watch the rest of the dinosaurs became extinct - dragons - then you I'll add it to your new video description so for the humans to repopulate again? Dumb and looked like apes. over from scratch not knowing how to build houses. Put yourself in their shoes. so I believe that Noah and his family prepared. things that they needed - with them knowing where people from the pre-flood So, over time, they could have checked out these And even repaired some of it if it was possible. go and try to repopulate the earth. [Genesis 9:1] So they did but sadly the world became evil again. Well, Noah had only three sons. Now Abraham and the Nation And I believe most of the evil His children were Cush, Egypt, Put, Now I know this video is long, but Listen up. You would remember Nimrod from my previous videos. many cities and something else as well of Babel was built through him and it [Genesis 10:8-10] In a sense this almost feels like a because it talks about the Land of Shinar. takes from the Bible. Verse 11 says: [Genesis 10:11-12] Now, this is where it gets very interesting information of why it got so evil again. we can understand how people spread throughout the his son started the Nation of Israel. because that's what the Bible is all about - Now I believe it got so evil We have a sinful nature within us God - the light - then we move into darkness. But it became, in a sense, it was accelerated. the devil and his demons who gave them the made available through the fallen There is a spiritual world that we cannot see influenced human beings - but it will become Let's read Genesis 11 verse 1. [Genesis 11:1-2] Now you remember in the previous verse, it said that the Land of Shinar is the [Genesis 11:3] This shows us again that they having the knowledge to build amazing buildings. [Genesis 11:4] Lest we be dispersed over Remember, the flood came so Now again, they don't want to be judged in their sin, so they want to build a place and build this tower in rebellion against God. Now, the Bible doesn't talk about had apart from what they built, right? had to have the knowledge to be able to build So we know that they have they had explain a little bit more. Some call it the seven sacred sciences, According to some, there was a pure branch There was always this fight between good and evil. back back back back to the Garden of Eden [Genesis 2:17] And then, you know the rest of the story. If you eat of it, you will be like God. And what did they do? Why? So they took the fruit. They ate They died spiritually, because they anymore because sin entered them. And God is Holy. with you if you live in darkness. So they died spiritually and we know can only worship Him in Spirit and truth. it on all humankind who were born from them. the knowledge of evil and, according to some, the secret society of Freemasons we have today. God, used the knowledge for evil and also with the They used all of that for evil, which According to the book The Spirit based on just normal architecture but I believe that those people who rebelled against way that the people did before the flood religions and occultic practices, worshiping With this game, sorcery, mysticism, And that is probably why this happened in Verse 5. [Genesis 11:5-6] So God saw where this was leading them towards... world, so He came down to stop it yet again tower, because they wanted to rebel against God. false teachings of fallen angels doing these mysticism, starting these religions of The Nelson's Bible dictionary says the tower was I believe they could have built this tower in to follow now again this pantheistic religion Now of course, a lot of Who many say that the Epic of The Babylonian Epic of Gilgamesh, it - many say that this is actually about Nimrod. Gary Wayne says in his book The Genesis 6 a dictator - Nimrod - had usurped absolute control epoch with Babel as its first united project. Genesis 6 Conspiracy which had constructed the as memorials and a legacy to their Now, this is actually a great book to read. as I said before. 100 percent - everything else you have Don't just trust everything you read. with the bath water. Now I think that the idea of Nimrod - it the whole world under one world government Of course, all the information and his fallen angels, given to And I believe all of this happened for one To lead people away from Him as the devil has certain people who want to control the world. Nimrod the first Grand Master after the flood. into evil again. Rebellion - violence - sexual a promised new world - does this not sound If you just open your eyes It's the same thing repeating itself. If you look in history and until this There are still secret societies and I won't my video off of YouTube, but there are secret one government, where they control what When Nimrod did this and God saw where this was [Genesis 11:6] I believe that this is talking I mean, with the new movie that it opened people's eyes to just the Millions of people. That's just part of the evil There is a lot more that is part of the To stop all the evil. [Genesis 11:7-9] Now Josephus, the Jewish historian, He said that they built a tower so God wanted to flood the world again, which He still won't do it today You still see it today - the rainbow - the rainbow And today a rainbow is even used for Actually the original design The one they use now it's got only six colors, but enjoy it when you see it in nature after the rain. why they built the Tower of Babel was so that As crazy as it seems, that's one of the reasons. And the people of the pre-flood world. flood of Noah's time, just in case God decided You know, you will hear different stories About the time of the flood and also but it's the same people and you will start to see Because it is the same people Even the Hebrew legends tell how Nimrod into heaven in an attempt to slay God. famous ziggurat, was built by giants legend said the ziggurat built by giant Remember, there were nephilim at this And this ziggurat sounds like the Tower of Babel. of knowledge from God in the time Knowledge God gave them about Himself. shared with their children. this knowledge if they rebel against God. and use this knowledge for evil. especially with the fallen angels or demons knowledge even further. new and it will continue to happen. [1 Timothy 4:1] But now let's go deeper. Some say that Adam told this to his children line of Seth to Noah and Noah after They say the evil knowledge spread from Cain Remember the Bible says before the flood They followed evil. It was a time where the nephilim were there. It was just a soup of evil - committing murder, raping, stealing, Now, this super evil time probably happened in earth and created the half breeds, the nephilim, [ Genesis 6:5] Some of these sources say that the evil Lamech sciences on two pillars, so that the people And that it could guide them. type of brick so it won't sink - and the Supposedly the first pillar - the one sacred corrupted sciences inscribed on it. directions to the location Some say that it was buried You know, they have a lot of interesting will tell you what they want you to know. would wonder as well but they will But that's a video for another time. So again some say that the pure Seth and then up to Noah and his children. sciences came from Cain and then to Lamech, the the evil sin came from before the world and spread Now, the Bible doesn't mention this very interesting about the evil Lamech's It mentions their names and but why .... why only Lemach's children? it does not mention any detail of Adam and the third child - Seth - where Noah came from. video, I read you 2 Timothy 3:16 that says that Written by humans but through So it is perfect, you can trust it and So it is important - it was important the names of his children and what they could do. [Genesis 4:19-20] Now remember, even with music Even in rituals or you can use it for good. [Genesis 4:22] There's a lot of instruments that The sister of Tubal-Cain was Naamah. writings say that this is where the fallen especially in the time of Lamech and his children perverted sciences so that they could use it and according to them this is where evil pre-flood world - and where the pantheistic pretending to be gods. It could have been in this time because even Many, many of the children of The Bible says this - other sources According to Dr. Oliver who wrote the Huh.. of people - the tribe Seth - his people - his Sounds interesting. [Genesis 4:25] So Seth had Enosh and they worshiped God. they still worship God. not the evil one from the the line of Cain. because there are two names in the lineages The names Enoch and Lamech. then Mahalalel, then Jared, and then Enoch. God and the flood came at the tenth generation. At the tenth generation there was the The whole world apart from Noah. Just in those few generations. While the Bible doesn't say this, so I but other ancient writings do. Books that became evil because of the the leader called Azazel, and their mixed breed Especially the humans from the line of Cain. all these other ancient writings and they the evil sacred sciences corrupting the good evil things like the seventh science astronomy Now, just very quick, if you think astrology and that your future is determined you're born, please watch my video on this. so you can have an idea of why this is evil. there was a pure branch of good A perverted one, with the Adam learned things directly Then he had Cain and Abel which For example, both of them knew how to farm. But Cain killed Abel and went east with all his having not only knowledge in So after Cain, Adam and Eve had Seth The Bible doesn't say exactly how many. but they probably taught all that they knew. sciences - that and other things And they probably taught them to use it for good. Adam and Eve had 33 sons and 23 daughters. they have but this could have been true. So Cain went to east with all the knowledge. Seth, he lived righteously and used the knowledge Josephus and other writings - Cain's perverted it with the help of the fallen angels, until it was so bad that God had to stop it. their seven sacred sciences that's perverted after the flood can continue these evil After the flood the devil was still So they started to go to work - working on to turn from God again, and to follow the Alright, now I'm gonna go deeper. So wake up - refresh - refocus. Now, most of this comes So I'm not sure how much of this is After the flood a man called Hermes - new Egyptian god of wisdom went with Ham The ancient perverted knowledge. and gave the information to Nimrod which Especially with the knowledge and this is why Nimrod was also so powerful. Now some writers say that Abraham Josephus also says that Abraham taught them the writer called Eupolemus actually says Abraham which I of course don't believe. astronomy and mathematics. Well, I'm not sure. well-educated because of his family line so Remember, Abraham came from Shem and Shem had after our Arphaxad so Shem was still alive So he could have learned a lot of things Abraham or Abram as he was called back was an important - he was a very important figure But a lot of people forget that he [Joshua 24: 2] Yeah, they served other gods. Ur of the Galdeans which was in modern Iraq. Ur Namu around 2100 before Christ. Remember this was the same pantheistic I talked about the moon It is the same pantheistic religion They did that before the flood. Abraham was around 75 years [Genesis 12:1-2] Now it is likely that Abraham could have family to family but a lot of them started the other gods we talked about in the previous Yahweh. and then he followed God. [Genesis 14:22] So Abram and his family started to follow God. But remember most of the other nations is part of the perverted sacred According to Gary Wayne. cloak draped over the corrupted sciences was many other pagan nations of the Mediterranean. Nimrod and Hermes who became a Now remember a few minutes ago I told you that It is the same thing, just different names Hermes is also the name of the Greek They started the old religion that after the flood with Osiris and Isis used Osiris was the best known. The Muchans of Asia Minor The Indians named him Dionysus. and the Arabians, Adonis. found in the same sun god allegories. We know that God is the only God. The devil is not a god at all - he's just a him - they're just angels. They have power but they're not God. and he wants to ascend himself above God. So he is trying to show people that he is the The symbol of light that we see - the sun - gods looking at the sun - I'm gonna get to [2 Corinthians 11:14] Now the sun has always been Light and knowledge, that is So these gods are all sun god Who came to give human beings knowledge. where he wanted them to eat of the fruit So the devil's plan was to bring the knowledge that's what he did and it is the same God Just look at the one dollar bill - on the top of who reach it - who are deemed worthy receive When you look at that pyramid All the 33 levels - the sun illuminates it. the knowledge to them. All of it points to who? Now there is so much here that you still need to And then you will realize how many politicians the entertainment industry - and even And it stretches back to Nimrod and back to the antediluvian period. like the secret societies of the Knights It is just the tip of the iceberg. bit of a summary in a little bit of history of Where we are now in his last 300 years, But if you want to know more me know in the comment section down below. This video has already been too long and they is only 8.25 seconds, so in Part Seven of this 10 life-changing truths every man must know. Well, you will have to wait and see. seen it in all the other parts of this series So subscribe if you don't want that life is short, so don't waste yours.