"The black sesames have now So I'm going to I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'll do it over again." [MUSIC PLAYING] "Hey, I'm Sue Li. I'm here in the New York Times my matcha and black Why do I like to be a I love the attention. Thank you. But I also really I do this a lot, I'm here to make you a just like I did the year that. Part of the reason is is very forgiving when it So matcha and black sesame There's a bit of bitterness bit of nuttiness from I think the colors And so obviously, to be great together too. O.K., it's very easy. You just make the dough, pat You'll see. Let's make the matcha dough. So you want your I think this is a good You take your finger It makes an indentation. Just dump it into your mixer. You want to cream it with which is roughly I feel like everybody should shortbreads by now if No? Well, this time, This time, it's just I'm trying to be a I am 42 now. Can you believe? I cannot believe I'm We're going to scrape the the egg yolk. O.K. So we're going which is 2 2 tablespoons might seem But it really helps and make it really look the flavor a bit more. And salt -- it's I don't think the type of You can use any Also, don't use a Save that for drinking. And start beating on low. I just paddle it for maybe until it comes together. You don't really want So you just want to take your Scrape it onto a I just use my hands. And I pat it into a It doesn't have to be exact. We're not taking out And everything's going to And it's driving me And now, I'm going to And I'll see you So now, we're going to make First, you need to toast Spread them into We're going to toast the black fragrant and toasty, which minutes. I do recommend that you buy seeds yourself. I think it's just nuttier. It's strong. It tastes stronger to me. Also, you don't know when they when they're pre-toasted. I don't know how long O.K., it's now They're very fragrant, And we're going to let it 5 to 10 minutes before we So you don't want them to be Because hot seeds or become a paste rather than I'm not trying to make tahini. I'm trying to make So it's really important And I'm going to pulse it We're going to do long maybe 20 to 30 times. If you lose count, it's O.K. it to look like. So let me take a look. I've lost count. So you basically want it And I think the visual blazer. Don't get so close. You're going to see my pores. We're going to go back into made the matcha dough. I didn't wash anything. The black sesame sugar you're going to Add the butter that is soft. So right now, you'll Once it emulsifies it's going to become a I think this is about right. So I didn't add an egg yolk that the seeds I did that on the other doughs that there's added oils [MUSIC PLAYING] "So here's the matcha I'm just going to center the me that it wasn't centered. We all have control issues. We're going to pat this make a fairly even layer. I gave you a measurement 6 inches. It's O.K. You don't really You don't need to Everything's going to be fine. And then you're going to So we're going to cut this Another cut here. And then you want to alternate So the colors are sesame, I'm now going to take of parchment and And it just appears. And then we're just And I use my parchment I use it to press it down. Now, I'm going to It doesn't have to be exact. We're not taking out I take the parchment and I'm make a log. And then just keep rolling. And it helps you make People around me -- Do you see the urge? I really want to I can't help it. You should just -- I won't do it. I'm not doing it. I'm not doing it. This is when I to chill your shortbread They should not be super warm. Because you want them and not spread out. These are cookie logs that a couple days ago. Because truly, you do want And we simply have to chill the And she wrapped them which is also great. And you can do It's very satisfying. Remember year 1 when I pistachio shortbread? I was like, cut I take it back. You want it to temper so you have cleaner cuts. If you cut it when it's cold, I'm so sorry about that. So we're going to cut this log slices. If you feel like your dough round, because obviously, because I'm putting just put it between your Totally fine. No one's ever going to know." [MUSIC PLAYING] "Let's go bake some cookies. You bake the cookies So the cookies are done. I'm going to use the --" "What is that?" "I don't know. It's what I found. Now, we're going to taste it. And you know what? It's not even just coming the pressure, it's the eating O.K., I'm going to do it. It's really good. I just don't want you guys But O.K. It's very nice. It's very subtle because But it has all the That I think you'll The dough itself frozen Plan ahead of time. Make all the doughs ahead. If you can make Spend a whole And then spend a whole day be efficient with your time. Wow, look at that. This is for me?" "Yeah, this is for you." "Thank you. I forgot the most Go to the New York to look for your Do I have to eat "You absolutely do not." "Cool. Thank you, guys. Happy holidays." [MUSIC PLAYING]