[Rhonda]: Hello everyone. I'm really excited to be sitting here with recognized for his understanding of the mechanisms Alzheimer's disease. He holds faculty positions at University of for Research on Aging. In fact, he was the founding president and that's really kind of cool. And he also is an author of a &quot;New York Times&quot; Disease,&quot; which I'm sure we're going to talk It's got a really interesting multi-pronged mild cognitive dementia and Alzheimer's disease. So thank you so much, Dale, for having me [Dale]: Thanks very much, Rhonda. [Rhonda]: So maybe we can start a little bit and pathological distinguishing features of are on what can cause Alzheimer's disease [Dale]: Right, so it's a good point because is the most common cause of cognitive decline, And by definition, this means that you have tau tangles. So those are the two main pathological hallmarks But as you can see, that doesn't tell you at the brain, and of course, you can get something amyloid and you can get amyloid without the So, it's a marker but it's an imperfect one. [Rhonda]: Yeah, that's a really good point And do you have any thoughts on why there in their brain that aren't demented and then it? [Dale]: Yeah, it's a great point. So, here's the thing, the whole world is turning of Alzheimer's. It's been over 100 years, of course, going in 1906 and 1907, and there hasn't been a And of course, amyloid has been for years neurotoxin. It does have toxic effects. The surprise has been that this is also a It's actually something that is made by your And for example, Professor Rudy Tanzi and ago showed that it is an antimicrobial. It also, as Professor Ashley Bush showed a good binder of divalent metals like copper And we showed a number of years ago, it is support, so you actually get a change in signaling. So, there are multiple different insults and this stuff. And so I think there's been confusion because at this increased risk for having a degenerative people that produce it and they successfully have the downsizing. What's often been stated is those who then the ones that do worse, and that's a very And we identified and published, a number contribute to this, but they actually break So, any sort of pathogens, anything that's it because you have a leaky gut or because you have Borrelia of Lyme disease, or you've that, all of these things can engender that And in fact, we think more and more of amyloid You got the bad guys coming across the border, kills the bad guys, the napalm but in so doing You're now living in a smaller country, and you are downsizing the overall network. So, that's what we call type 1 or inflammatory And I should mention, it turns out ayurvedic recognized dementia that was related to something inflammatory, as well as that was related where you have decreased trophic support. It can be nerve growth factor, brain-derived pregnenolone, progesterone, thyroid, vitamin of synaptogenesis. So we think of the signaling as being a ratio sending signals to make and store synapses versus synaptoclastic activity where you're And of course, this is going on all the time. You're actively forgetting the seventh song yesterday and you're actively forgetting a like where your keys are and where your son And so, there is a change in that ratio in inflammation or type 2, which we call atrophic for those synapses, so you're literally...it's five children and I can only feed four. I can either watch all five starve slowly four,&quot; and that's basically the downsizing neural network that you have. And then we have a type that's actually type And we named it that because it has features atrophic. So what happens is you develop insulin resistance, actually occurs because of this chronic high So you actually phosphorylate your IRS-1, over at UCSF. So you change the ratio of the serine/threonine and you're literally changing your response you no longer have insulin as the supportive But of course, you're also glycating proteins hemoglobin A1C. But you're glycating many proteins, so you So you have an inflammation in an atrophic And then type 3 turns out to be completely So there is a toxic form, which we call toxic In addition, there are people we called type then type 5, which is more of a traumatic to these other ones. It's really about, do you have inflammation? Are you fighting something off? Do you have trophic support, and are you exposed [Rhonda]: Wow, and so in all of these different of have some of the same distinguishing pathological between all of them. [Dale]: So they all have amyloid plaques, but the presentation can be different. Now there are some overlaps, the type 1s and more common with ApoE4, and that's true for The type 3s, the toxic ones are quite different. They often present with a non-amnestic presentation. It's executive dysfunction, problems with problems with word finding, so-called primary they are really bi-parietal presentations So these have often been called cortical presentations, like Professor Mario Mendez, to be typical often in ApoE4 negative individuals. [Rhonda]: I think I also read one in your there was a very prominent zinc deficiency [Dale]: Yes, so for reasons that we don't with the type 3, the toxic sub-type have low triglycerides. The low triglycerides may turn out to be related but we don't really understand why the people [Rhonda]: What does that mean, the copper-zinc [Dale]: The high copper-zinc ratio, low zinc. [Rhonda]: Low zinc, yeah. [Dale]: Yeah, so as, you know, copper and in their absorption. And so, too much of one actually is often And then typically in our society, as you There are actually about a billion people It's a very common problem because if you as we age, if you're taking PPIs for GERD, won't absorb the zinc very well, if you have will often compete with the zinc. And so many people have a little too much And in fact, it was noted over 30 years ago to have dementia more than those with normal [Rhonda]: Wow. So does this have something to do with it? I know there's like over 300 to 500 different So does copper then bind to those enzymes that like the theory? [Dale]: So, no. The theory is that, as you know, copper is You know, copper can act like iron in that It has a free electron in the D orbital which So in general, as you indicated, in these you said, it is an important structural component the enzymes that it serves, so it is a structural And copper, to my knowledge, doesn't actually But for example, zinc is important in many it's important in diabetes, it's important of course, in the trophic activity of insulin It's important in immune responses. So, it actually has many effects that are [Rhonda]: So it may even just be a biomarker the toxic insult type of Alzheimer's disease [Dale]: It something to keep in mind when presents, and these people tend to be very So, they tend to be young, and we see them We've seen them as late as starting their their first symptoms are currying in the 40s They are often women, they are often ApoE4 There are certainly people who are ApoE4 positive As you mentioned, they often have the low non-amnestic way. Interestingly, unless they are homozygous with an amnestic presentation, but the ones problems, as I mentioned earlier, executive And so I always ask people, are you having We had one person, for example, who was known as she started to get the problem she just She could not organize things that she could Or as I said, people will say, &quot;Oh, I can't bills anymore,&quot; anything that is math-related like that. [Rhonda]: You mentioned the ApoE4 a few times. Can you talk a little bit about just for people is, and it's a gene, and so why it plays a [Dale]: Yeah, so, Apolipoprotein E is a really Robert Mahley discovered this decades ago, genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. Seventy-five million Americans have a single And when I say that what I mean by that is, 4, and the most common one is ApoE3. So it's common for people to be a 3,3 as an However, about a quarter of the population, of ApoE4, and that's actually the primordial It's the one that was present for about 96% If you look at a chimp for example, it does about 25% of the population today. Then about seven million Americans have two Now, if you have zero copies, so if you're, for Alzheimer's is about 9%, so not terribly On the other hand, if you have a single copy so. If you have two copies, if you're homozygous, studies as high as 90%. So most likely you will get it. And of course, the vast majority of people Now, in the past people said, &quot;Don't check and that has completely changed. So there is a tremendous amount, and the reality It should essentially decrease to a very low If everybody gets checked, we recommend that a silly term but it's easy to remember. Everybody knows when you hit 50 you should you should be getting a cognoscopy. You should be doing some testing and see where you ApoE4 positive, do you have high homocysteine, issues, toxin issues, all these things, because the overall global burden of dementia. [Rhonda]: So there's a variety of biomarkers get measured? [Dale]: Yes. [Rhonda]: You know, to, this, what did you The... [Dale]: The cognoscopy. [Rhonda]: Cognoscopy, yes. That's a nice term. So, including the genetic factor, ApoE4, seeing that you kind of just mentioned. Some of those, I think you also have published as well, looking at insulin sensitivity and So maybe we can talk a little bit about some this wonderful protocol, let's see, the MEND [Dale]: Right, so it's now called ReCODE, was Metabolic Enhancement for Neurodegeneration. But as we have made 2.0 and 3.0 and we have in the book, it's become ReCODE, which is And we now have over 3,000 people who are published a number of the results. We actually have another thing that's just who have shown improvement. [Rhonda]: Fifty, wow. So the publications that I had read you had [Dale]: There was 10 and then there were another [Rhonda]: Another 10. [Dale]: A different 10, yeah. [Rhonda]: Right, and you showed that you were disease, some of them had to leave work because and they were not only were able to some of have brain mass returning and just so it was So, some of these, some of the very complex maybe we can talk about some of the key ones [Dale]: Yeah, and I should say, you know, We've been trying to treat this disease without So I usually tell people it's as if you took working well, and the mechanic said, &quot;Oh, This is called car not working syndrome and And you say, &quot;Well, wait a minute. I mean, shouldn't you figure out why, why And I said, &quot;Well, no, you know, the testing that.&quot; And that's the unfortunate situation we've People say, &quot;We don't know what causes it, There's nothing we can do, and you're going And medicine is changing in the 21st century, It is becoming less about mono-therapeutics And at the center of this is to understand When you have something like there's a simple the pneumococcus, you treat the pneumococcus, diabetes, anything that could have been contributing pneumococcal pneumonia, that's not the case With Alzheimer's there are dozens of things And so what we want to do is address all of Yes, if you have pathogens, many people have, a Lyme co-infection like Bartonella or Babesia need to be addressed. And of course, you need to change the underlying So as you indicated, there are specific biomarkers. So we want to know you are hsCRP, it's a marker your homocysteine, the marker of methylation. If you're not methylated appropriately and increased risk for neurodegeneration. And of course, it's been published that you grey matter volume and hippocampal volume [Rhonda]: Is that because of vascular reasons [Dale]: Well, the publication did not distinguish. It just simply followed people over years in volume and could show that not only was rapidity of it on a graph with homocysteine, But then if you improve the homocysteine and at less than seven as being normal not less [Rhonda]: Less than seven? [Dale]: Seven as being normal, then in fact their decline and leveled off. So it suggested that this is a causal relationship, of change in cerebral volume as well as cognitive [Rhonda]: Independent of other biomarkers? [Dale]: Independent of other biomarkers, yes. So we want to know that. We want to know whether you have glycotoxicity. So we want to know what is your fasting insulin. And again, people will accept it way off the We have an unfortunate situation where classically normal limits, WNL, very arbitrarily as being That actually makes no sense physiologically, it doesn't say that that's optimal for your So we'd like to know what your fasting insulin or less than five, although again, within We'd like to know your hemoglobin A1C, which last two months, your serum glucose. We'd like to know your fasting glucose. These three actually give you quite complimentary type 1.5 that I mentioned, the glycotoxic And then the atrophic, as you can imagine, We want to know your vitamin D, and again, but within normal limits. We want to know your pregnenolone, progesterone, And we'd like to know your brain-derived neurotrophic There's no simple way on a clinical lab test from other things, you know, what is your You know, what have you been doing? If you change these various things we've been Have you been exercising? If you're not exercising your BDNF is likely So we want to look at all of the trophic support things if you're going to make and keep a that support. And then again, that balance changes for many positive. ApoE4 gives you an advantage in that you have You are responding...so if you live in a squalid Professor Tuck Finch studied, for example, you are in better shape if you're ApoE4 positive. But if you're not living in a pro-inflammatory, fact you have this chronic inflammation that, good for if you step on a nail, good for situations long run counterproductive. So, you know, as you know, this is so-called This is something that can help you when you're diseases that will shorten your lifespan. And typically, cerebrovascular disease, of ApoE4 is actually underrepresented in centenarians. So it has been a short-gevity gene as it were. Again, that is changing and can change by by this. So we want to know all those markers and those to know the markers for type 3. So we want to know if there are specific toxins So the toxins can be metalotoxins like mercury, toxins like DDE, things like that, they can A, aflatoxin, gliotoxin, these are toxins and Aspergillus, and Penicillium, which are I mean, they're literally saying, &quot;Okay, I'm And for example, one of the responses has wood, they're recognizing something has changed, So these are things where just as we're seeing as Professor Shoemaker has pointed out, Dr. over the years on mold and mycootoxins and Response Syndrome. As we've had fungicides, as we've had, you recognized the danger from these. In fact, we've had more and more of this mold-related So we want to know all those things for the And of course, we also want to know have you if you have vascular compromise, all of those Now, you mentioned the diet. So, yes, we want to start with the basics, is customized to you based on what's actually for cognitive decline. And so, the nutritional part we call Ketoflex So keto, so we want people to be in mild ketosis for cognition, and many people do better with showed, of course, with using coconut oil do it for some people, other people like caprylic at generating endogenous ketones, which if And so we want to drive you into mild ketosis, fat, good fats, diet, things like avocados And there is a caveat out for people who are BMI, so we can talk about that. The next piece is flexitarian, so you can In general, we see meat as a condiment, but eat relatively small amounts of meat but that's If you do, if it's going to be chicken, it to be beef, it should be grass-fed beef. If you're going to have fish, great. Make sure it's wild caught not farmed fish. You don't want to have the fish with high Those are the large-mouthed, long-lived fish, that, you want to stay away from those because In fact, one of the people who called me a businessman who had early Alzheimer's and him, &quot;Come back in a year because you're not NCI phase,&quot; but you could already see the And when I listened to his story I said, you find out if you've got exposure to any toxins.&quot; And he said, &quot;No, everything's great.&quot; Well, it turned out that he was eating large be genetically a poor excretor of mercury, So he had extremely high organic mercury from from the amalgams, and then as well as...so And his mercury's actually 7 times the 95th massive mercury exposure, and he's done well So we want to know those specific ones. And again, for fish, you want to think about And my wife, who's a family practitioner, salmon, mackerel, anchovies, sardines and side and on the integrative medicine side. She told me 25 years ago, &quot;Whatever you guys I've spent my whole career looking at what to neurodegeneration. She said, &quot;You know, whatever you come up what you're eating and your exercise.&quot; And I said, &quot;No, no, no. It's going to be one domain of one molecule and it's going to be over...&quot; And of course, I should have listened to her It does have to do with programmatics not So then the 12/3 part of Ketoflex 12/3, a finish dinner and when you start breakfast you're actually a better fat absorber, as hours. If you're ApoE4 negative, 12 to 14 hours. And be careful, if you have a very low BMI, diet and so you have to liberalize typically that's a little more carbohydrate-related. And of course, in the book we talk about the diet, but 12 hours, that gives you time for night to induce your ketosis, to clean out you actually have a change in the architecture essentially sweeping this stuff out, it's And so, if you're eating with these very small fasting you're actually doing yourself harm And then similarly, you want three hours before You don't want to eat right up until bedtime hurting your cognition. That's again, giving you the same sort of doing all the things that are not helpful. So that's the dietary approach. And of course, you want to have organic. There are toxins in our food, it's unfortunate. We've got a tremendous a life-long exposure Of course, Bruce Ames, with whom you've trained, to look at carcinogens, but nobody has ever You're exposed every day to various dementogens, organics that are in some of the health and If you're living in a home that has leaks, to know about that. So that's the Ketoflex 12/3. We want it be...it's a plant-rich diet that plant-based, but either way it is a plant-rich up to you. You want to be vegetarian, that's fine, you That minimizes the toxins, you want to have fat, and you can start out with using things up. We're finding that people who have higher more beta-hydroxybutyrate tend to do better [Rhonda]: ApoE4 positive or negative? [Dale]: And ApoE4 positive or negative. Now interestingly, for the ApoE4s what we suggested by Julie G. who started the website, You essentially start with using the MCT oil after a month or two to more monounsaturates Now you can essentially balance, so you have You follow your LDL particle number, your You want to keep it below 1,000 so you can monounsaturates and polyunsaturates so they outcome, at the same time have the best cognitive Be careful, if don't get your ketones up and brain, and so then people will say, &quot;Oh my So you want to use that. You want to basically be changing over to And then, as you indicated, you want to go to make it heart healthy. [Rhonda]: So for this, for the ApoE4 positive fat intake because of the LDL. [Dale]: After you become insulin sensitive, sensitivity, so you're able now to convert, to convert from a largely carbohydrate-based So if you try to do it in a day you may end time and you're now producing, it's a whole to be less inflammatory, you're lowering your flexible, and you're now essentially developing weeks. And it's helpful to do things like exercise [Rhonda]: And then the fasting, the overnight said, if you're ApoE4 positive possibly even That's interesting that you're talking about becoming more ketogenic that you may actually because you have to really...it is kind of having a lot of fat. And so, it's something I have not experimented I found out I had an ApoE4 allele and so I've Alzheimer's disease and what I can do to prevent everyone with one ApoE4 gets Alzheimer's disease. It's a very complex diet-lifestyle interaction, [Dale]: And no one should, and that's the This should be largely ended with the current Everybody should get checked, everybody should is the medicine of the 21st century. [Rhonda]: Yeah, I wanted to ask you about Eric Verdin at the Buck Institute, I spoke paper he had published, I believe was cell ketogenic diet, and there was just, you know, what was really, really robust was the improvements it was just, you know, hands down like clear And so, you know, of course, those weren't [Dale]: But this is the exact same thing we're with early cognitive decline. Now, as you go later and later, it's more even with MoCA scores of zero show improvement. So, yes, I think the work that you quoted ketones is actually quite helpful for cognition. [Rhonda]: Beneficial. Do you think, and here's a couple of questions that...you know, probably multiple things, have improved insulin sensitivity, you're and all the inflammatory processes associated Also the ketones, as you mentioned, are used And interestingly, it actually spares...are happens with the...yeah, so glucose gets spared so that helps repair damage. But I'm wondering if people like myself, I I also don't...I eat a very healthy diet. I definitely try to make sure I don't eat or processed food or things like that. But the thing is, is that my...so my fasting and all that's really good. So, for me going on ketogenic diet, do you though the whole, you know, insulin sensitivity not sure. [Dale]: Well, I think the only way you're [Rhonda]: To try it, yeah. [Dale]: And you know, you can even do so all ability. And I do think that many of us are sub-optimal One of the problems, of course, is that there the 20th century. Yes, it's fine to have processed foods, it's more sugar, on and on and on, which just simply And it has to do with sleep, it has to do We were built, as human creatures, to do certain built for. If we all were jumping out of a third-story that would not go over well for us. And to some extent, we're doing the same thing So, obviously, you've managed to stay fit these sorts of things. However, a little bit will depend on what is your hemoglobin A1C? For example, is there some inflammation there The bottom line is that we were not made as carbs that we typically are exposed to. So to some extent, just as we're being exposed is one of them. And whether you try to be exposed to it or of different foods and things like that. [Rhonda]: Going out to eat, you never know. [Dale]: Going out to eat...there's also the So many people...and this wasn't even known but it's become very clear that it's very It does contribute to chronic inflammatory decline. So, I think that having a high-fat diet has can suggest is, look, if you ever have any and then consider this. In your case, of course, as you indicated, already know that you're ApoE4 positive, so you know, obviously, you're doing a lot of [Rhonda]: And measuring a lot of different...you is also good so you're going to measure things and all those things as well to make sure going to be good for you. I think that's very important. So the diet and then exercise and the sleep You mentioned the glymphatic system, you know, two major ways that amyloid beta plaques are system? [Dale]: Well, of course, there are multiple. There's the ratio of formation to clearance And of course, you're going to be forming a state of inflammation or of responding to So actually, you know, there was a really Fiala at UCLA, developed about almost 10 years And what he was looking at was taking peripheral taking the blood macrophages, and you're now He would give them amyloid, and just look at eating and getting rid of the amyloid. And the surprise was, all the people who have rid of this amyloid. It was as if they're literally trying to keep Then we realized, yeah, this is a state. So, as you know, it's become clear that you You have the metabolic flexibility, you have the states you change back and forth between state, and on the other hand, an anti-inflammatory, These two actually have multiple sites of So you're literally flipping back between had cognitive decline are poor at getting around. And he looked at their M1 to M2 ratios, essentially The people who don't eat the amyloid and who state where they have a lot of M1 and very had an atrophic state, the same thing we saw enough of this to resolve. So they literally had very low levels. And so in fact, getting the right levels, with the best outcomes. So, you do have this phenomenon, and so yes, degrading enzyme, Neprilysin, macrophage clearance, There are multiple ways but as long as you're mechanisms to keep this stuff around, you're it. [Rhonda]: This paper that you are referring had published a few years ago where you had use that as a biomarker if the people with beta plaques via phagocytosis with their monocytes marker for what's going on in the brain potentially, [Dale]: Right, and this is Professor Fiala's [Rhonda]: Right, and you had done a small supplements along with some antioxidants and of the amyloid plaques in the periphery, and had improved cognition, ApoE4 negative ones, [Dale]: Right, and so I was a co-author on So again, he invented the test and he's now that you described there. What we're doing is a much larger set where that is an important part of it. And of course, Professor Serhan [SP] from part. You have the inflammatory part but then you And if you don't have that resolution part, with this chronic inflammatory state. And so things like omega-3s and omega-3 derived involved with the resolution, resolvins, named [Rhonda]: Of resolving inflammation? [Dale]: Right. [Rhonda]: I remember in that paper, and I've a paper that hopefully will be published quite and particularly with respect to omega-3. So there's some evidence that for whatever are given fish or eaten fish they're protected it's not the same at least for ApoE-positive And it's kind of been mystery as to why that [Dale]: And by the way, Professor Paul Clayton and written about this. And his argument is that, of course, fish like that, so they have antioxidants, things whether you find them in plants or animals have to remember you're looking at something very sensitive to oxidation. And so you have to protect that, and you're Again, this idea that we had in the past that, to get that oil out, it's not just as good. And although the oil can be helpful, you better know, better to get it in its appropriate [Rhonda]: Very interesting, some interesting Salem Norman. Norman Salem, sorry. He had shown in animals, if you take animals feed them DHA orally, there was a transport And so I kind of review this work on a variety a couple of major mechanisms by which DHA Are you familiar with some of those? One is the through a free fatty acid and the called the Mfsd2a transporter, which is actually form. And so, it appears that there may be different and one of the ways is potentially not working that's my writing theory. But once the paper's accepted I'll send you So it's super, super interesting. [Dale]: Yeah, and of course, as you know, years looking at what does it actually take And his point was you need the DHA and you And so again, if you're going to be helping you want to make sure that they have plenty signals, reduction of inflammation, all these overall orchestrated event. [Rhonda]: The other interesting thing is that I had been digging into the literature, it glucose transporters on the blood-brain barrier. And so if you're DHA-deficient those glucose not getting glucose into the brain, which So that's another interesting thing. So, a couple of interesting things I wanted not particularly. You mentioned this type 3 sub-type. Would the herpes virus fall into that? [Dale]: So, yeah. So herpes virus could give you type 1 or type to. If it's just a chronic inflammation then it chronic inflammatory, but you're right. You know, again, many groups have said, &quot;Okay, Okay, it's about P. gingivalis, it's about And the reality is, all of these are capable you're making the amyloid as part of a protectant. As you know, it's essentially part of your So if you're responding in that way it can every single time, as far as anyone knows. So, yes, you alluded to the recent work on seven. And so, yes, not surprisingly. You know, one of the things we see frequently and chronic presence of the various herpes things. [Rhonda]: The last thing I kinda wanted to about it in case you weren't aware of it, out of Finland. Are you familiar with saunas and the protective... [Dale]: Of course. [Rhonda]: Oh, okay. [Dale]: Yeah, of course, dramatic effects, we've been talking about. And certainly, what happens when you have protein, great, that's important, and it can also happens, of course, is that you detox. And these people who are doing this repeatedly...you who showed that if you look at composition toxins that are very high, cadmium being the so a good way to get rid of cadmium, but a [Rhonda]: Mercury as well, right? [Dale]: I think you're right with mercury. [Rhonda]: Yeah, BPA comes out as well. [Dale]: BPA, especially the hydrophobic toxins, good in the sweat, but others as well. And so that's why it is very helpful, and thing. And as has been pointed out, whether you're you're doing it through saunas, whether you're good to get. And then you want to use a non-emollient soap soap or whatever you like that's non-emollient get re-penetration. [Rhonda]: Yeah, the other thing is that cardiovascular related to dementia as well. So, is that something that you'd consider [Dale]: Oh, it's part of the protocol. [Rhonda]: It is part of the protocol? [Dale]: Oh, absolutely. [Rhonda]: Excellent. [Dale]: Now, we recommend that people...and more important. But as a general rule, you know, part of this of this is resilience. We're taking people who are sub-optimal in their toxic status, in their lifestyle status, are surprisingly important. One of the first people who came through was And as we went through each thing he said you know, that's not a cure for Alzheimer's, He had well documented early Alzheimer's, PET positive, hippocampal atrophy, the whole And as we went through each thing, you know, this.&quot; I said, &quot;Look, this is not about one thing, you.&quot; And actually, he's done extremely well, and doing very, very well. So, it is about changing signaling within providing the right support for that, DHA, hormones, and BDNF, and all these things, exposure. And as you mentioned, sauna is actually a burden. It is surprising how much toxic burden most [Rhonda]: So talking about the importance are so many different pathways that lead to that can lead to toxic burden, one of the over the past few years is the failed clinical clinical trials, I mean, it's just one after [Dale]: And actually, we've had a number of with antibodies who've actually gotten worse So you have to go back to, why is there? And it's tough because yes, it is both part it's a mediator, and I think that's been one People want to say it's the cause, it's a contributing to that. So, on the one hand, it's a mediator of the On the other hand, it's also a protectant, And so there's a double-edged sword there. It's fine, I think, in the long run, it'll got to remove the cause of it first. Now, of course, people have just tried to see some improvement? So I think it won't be surprising if you can it's a little bit like saying if we fire the Well, if we're still going to go into the for the right things. We want to know why your amyloid is there things, then remove the amyloid as opposed leaving the various inducers. [Rhonda]: Right, and with Alzheimer's disease about for the last hour, there are so many causes, so many things in the environment, our diet, that it's difficult to just find And things are always much more complex. Like it seems like, well, amyloid plaques of those. They're destroying synapses, and well, as really important function. And for the longest time, I remember I was trying to understand what the normal function like what is it doing? Why is it in there? Obviously, we have this whole elaborate system, right position, and it forms this 42 amino for a reason. It doesn't seem like it would be programmed And so I think it really is important to understand beta. And also with the tau, phosphorylated tau, that you find quite often in the people that they often also have tau tangles in...? [Dale]: Oh yeah. Now, tau imaging is still kind of in its infancy, So, they may have an amyloid-positive scan However, they are clearly in Alzheimer's, do from cerebral spinal fluid. So these people that we've reported, I mean, you know, amyloid tau index, so they have the high phospho-tau and total tau in the So, indirectly from that, we can say they phospho-tau tangles. And again, if you look at what this is doing, When you are trying to pull back on a connection And what is the phosphorylation of tau do? It allows it to pop off the microtubules so So no surprise when you're in this mode of to change, you're trying to pull back on your tau, pop it off, the microtubules, and you're you see. So again, it's not, you know, that the tau based on what's going on genetically with with innate immune system, and you know, with So the things that are driving this are the [Rhonda]: Yeah. What percentage of people would you say is 2, the inflammation and insulin resistance Are those the most common would you say types [Dale]: And so this is a really good point. So, initially, what we saw was that many people In fact, again, Professor Getzel from UCSF everyone he evaluated using exosomal analysis the nervous system, whether they had it peripherally It was really striking. [Rhonda]: Exosomal analysis. [Dale]: So this is exosomes that he analyzed, which represented about 10% of the overall signature. This was this change in phosphorylation of So clearly that's a very common thing. But what we're finding is rarely do people So, although type 3, this toxin type represented [SP], over 50%, so typically in the 60% to the type 3. So in fact, most people have some sort of of thing. So what it's turning out is that it's more Are you predominantly the type 3 with a little And by the way, the easiest to deal with, can imagine, with things like resolvants. [Rhonda]: Inflammation and... [Dale]: Inflammation and glycotoxicity. [Rhonda]: ...insulin sensitivity. [Dale]: You can improve with diet, exercise, Improving the atrophic is a little harder. You've got to get all the right things, you've hormones replacement, you've got to optimize And then the hardest of all is the type 3 some people have very high ERMI scores, that's If you've got mycootoxins being produced and of there. Or if you're working in them, you need to And until you do that you've got this chronic [Rhonda]: Is there a test people can do to house? [Dale]: Oh yeah. There's an easy test. In fact, you can go on...I think the government Index, and you want to get a score that's years ago. And you can easily get it, go on mycometrics.com. They literally send you some little cloths you are concerned about, send it in, and they for evidence of these various species. And if you've got species that happen to produce Then you can actually measure the toxins in So you can get an idea, and then again, you [Rhonda]: Is that a consumer product that [Dale]: Yeah, so you can get. There are a couple of companies now that do [Rhonda]: Okay, and so for people that don't, exposure, or they don't think they do, but things that they can do in their diet and would be the major things to reduce inflammation, exercise, sleep, and then again, a lot of and fasting glucose levels and all that. [Dale]: Getting your hemoglobin A1C down, by the way, you probably know that Dr. Terry done a lot of studies now on using a similar has seen excellent results including in herself So, again, looking at the drivers, and looking are we having more of an auto-immune response, immune system response with Alzheimer's, these chronic diseases. [Rhonda]: Do you look at markers for gut health, [Dale]: Absolutely, I mean, gut health is [Rhonda]: What are the major...inflammatory for gut health that's more direct? [Dale]: Oh absolutely, oh yeah. So, there are a couple of ways to go. There is Genova test, a doctor's data test, analysis sort of thing, but you can also do So Cyrex array 2, Cyrex has a whole set of So, if you have a leaky gut you're often going your gut. Then there's a Cyrex array 3 that looks at and so who you can look at that. And then there are various auto-antibodies, So yeah, these are very helpful to know. [Rhonda]: Can you spell Cyrex? [Dale]: Yeah, its C-Y-R-E-X is the company [Rhonda]: Excellent. I haven't have heard of that one. So for the Genova diagnostics, is that the one? [Dale]: There's a gut health one specifically, And then, so yes, so Dr. Aristo Vojdani, he's for Cyrex that are now being used by the Cyrex [Rhonda]: And that's consumer available as [Dale]: And that's available, yeah. [Rhonda]: Excellent. I'll definitely check those out. [Dale]: So the reality is, you know, it's an Uber, for example, you don't necessarily In this era we can actually get a lot more and more popular and more and more common. And it's something to some extent of the responsibility more and more with us. If you want to learn more about the protocol, called &quot;The End of Alzheimer's&quot; from Random And the only thing you can do is, is you can it there. And we are responding too, there are a lot out now in 26 different languages, a lot of what URLs do we use? Where do we go?&quot; So we're actually now putting that in a second [Rhonda]: Excellent. Well, thank you so much for this conversation, [Dale]: Yeah, thanks very much and then good [Rhonda]: Thank you.