American soldiers were surrounded Vietnam. Their time was running out with canopy and the treetops made it difficult The men on the ground called providing the Air Force with accurate locations Moments later, the roar of signaling support was on the way. An innovative The dedicated CAS aircraft with a shoulder-wing approaches the area without hesitation, ready for a swift and precise bombing run. through the canopy, the YA-9 descends with poised for action. With a thunderous roar, the Fortunately for him, his YA-9 is heavily armored, of a honeycomb structure that guarantees his The devastating 30-millimeter rotary instantly tears through the dense foliage, Vietnamese troops are instantly decimated. But forces. The YA-9 returns for another strafing the thick jungle, dropping several bombs from its This is the YA-9, the direct competitor Close Air Support (CAS) involves targeted forces close to allied troops, demanding precise in the final stages of World War 2, CAS became a deploying fighter and bomber aircraft like the Stuka to support ground operations Following World War 2, the United States sharpened the introduction of the Douglas Skyraider, demonstrated remarkable precision in supporting Air Controllers for mission guidance. However, limitations of using World War 2-era aircraft for such as SAMs, RPGs, and heavy machine guns. like the F-105 Thunderchief and F-4 Phantom II their effectiveness in CAS was limited, which The A-X program was launched to create an ground forces fighting in Vietnam through were criteria set by the USAF, which included just above jungle canopies or similar infantry. This operational requirement at low speeds and altitudes and the capability to The aim of flying low and at slow speeds was for with precision in order to avoid friendly fire or the AX fighter required robust survivability to protect the aircraft and pilot from enemy RPGs, and even SAM emplacements. pilot to the fighter's vital systems to ensure enough to repel enemy countermeasures but Although it was not specified, the aircraft had up to 23 millimeters in size. Armored flight had to be armored for the aircraft to function Additionally, the program specified the need allowing for sustained operations over a target essential to address various ground targets, counter enemy ground fire. These specifications and effective CAS aircraft for the USAF. from other standard fighters of the time was its provide better control and stability at lower as the CAS aircraft was envisioned to take off Standard fighters, on the other hand, were wings were a must for the designs to achieve Mach landing gear, too, put emphasis on speed and was Nevertheless, as the program advanced, in Southeast Asia to engaging Soviet Red Army decided to march against the West. aircraft manufacturers that had grown accustomed costly prices. Six manufacturers submitted jets and a single-engine V-tail pusher turboprop. over form, with most designs employing straight hard points on their wings. While swept straight wings did the opposite. as they favored low-speed performance and and superior STOL or short takeoff and landing bases close to the battlefield. for Proposals in 1970 seeking an aircraft 30-millimeter cannon with an expected rate Such a decision was based on the testimonies their concerns about the M61 Vulcan weapon was no longer effective against North While General Electric and Philco-Ford of what eventually would turn out to be the the USAF ultimately settled with Northrop to continue developing the new CAS aircraft. cannons ever fielded by the American military. could fire over 3,900 rounds per minute with in different types. From armor-piercing to high shred armor and fortifications to pieces. the GAU-8 had a range of over 4,000 feet and a Each prototype was designated YA-9 and 20-millimeter Vulcan cannon while the GAU-8 was such as the employment of straight wings, Nevertheless, there were Northrop's YA-9A featured a high wing, while the YA-9 had a more standard aircraft appearance, of riveted aluminum and two turbofan The shoulder-wing design allowed the aircraft required to deliver CAS support and the The engines in question were Lycoming employed by the Army Chinook helicopter. Northrop stuck to USAF's price savings. assembly and provided excellent visibility roles. The bubble-style canopy was housed in an would be made of titanium to protect the pilot. duplicated and came with a manual backup in case a single hit would not result in control failure. exterior. The fuel tanks were filled and to deal with small-arm fire. The foam was risk of explosion or fire following damage. punch. Ten hardpoints were mounted under the that ranged from rockets to conventional drop bombs, cluster bombs, and laser-guided Test pilots gladly received Northrop's over 520 miles per hour and, surprisingly enough, maneuverability due to the incorporation of flaps specific missions, the rudders and flaps were Nonetheless, they were essential for improving runways and controlling the aircraft's yaw alongside stability at low speeds. vertical stabilizer accompanied by horizontal undercarriage was fitted below the center mass. Prototype had a length of 53 feet, a width of take-off weight was approximately 41,800 pounds. aircraft were delivered to the Air Force for the A-10 was declared the winner in January Over 120 test flights were conducted. Both and the USAF acknowledged that the YA9 met all the CAS requirements. that the selection of the A-10 over the comprehensive testing program and the advanced superior performance at a higher cost. the USAF's decision not to choose the A-9 led to Fairchild's extensive testing, the decision two competitors at the time of evaluation. the soon-to-be-famous F-5E Tiger and the of the company's efforts were focused on these While Northrop was enjoying the glory, Fairchild, The company was on the brink of disappearing its life: the Close Air Support YA-10. it would cease to exist. As a result, Fairchild extensively considered it to keep it in business. and later transferred to Edwards Air Force Base in Museum for display, where they can be seen today. Thunderbolt II that remains in service to that has long been ditched since the 70s. The in the battle against terrorism throughout beginning of the XXI century. the venerated close air support aircraft given its latest upgrades and its sheer firepower