Reich eagle, swastika flag, and goose-stepping parade. It was 1940. These images were filmed in Paris, France, by soldiers of the German army, the Wehrmacht. During the war years, this was their home. More than 100,000 soldiers, and women alike have passed Paris was the ultimate dream for all of us. - Paris... it was the best year. The perfumes, the good food, and all those monuments to visit. - Far from the battlefields, Paris an Eldorado. Everything The occupant knew how to choose the most They're not going to put themselves In the beautiful districts, a second where the 100 percent German offer - It was very important for them to be able to live the German way. - Soldiers enjoy themselves here without theaters, restaurants and also French - It allowed me to enjoy things that I didn't have at home, such as brothels. - For Parisians, the German occupation coupons, but also round-ups - It was scary, you could feel the hand of the occupation. - If everything opposes them, the get closer. From hostility, Stories like those of Marguerite and Otto will even give birth to children. - My father loved my mother always loved my father and - The Parisian adventures of these First Klaus, a soldier in the Gertrud, the telephone operator. Then the children of soldiers who heard their stories and archived photos and documents. Today, Peter Lorenz, son of a high-ranking daughter of a private, are the custodians - They were fascinated by the life of this city. - There are also thousands of diaries, to mention millions of letters sent So many unique stories, testimonies, about those four years when Paris was German. Who were these soldiers and officers? How did world? What were the real relations between For the first time, the occupation end of the viewpoint, from the June 14, 1940, in Paris. The weather was a dead city. The streets, the Of the 1.8 million Parisians, more than a million escaped. For good reason, their worst nightmare is becoming reality. The Wehrmacht, the German army, marches with the Blitzkrieg, the lightning war, As a result, 80,000 soldiers died. A few miles from Paris, the victorious troops made a final stop. Private Werner, 18, from Lower Saxony, remembers. - Before entering the city, we had our uniforms. We had to present We had to make a good impression. - The first units arrived from the north, at the Porte de Clignancourt and Porte de la Villette. - The first units arrived in Paris around 6 am. They are motorcycle units. They head towards the Place de la Concorde. It will become a central location for the German high command. The Germans did not encounter any resistance in Paris. - Paris, the City of Light, has just A great capture and the culmination Private Klaus was 19 years old at the time and he realizes his luck. - I was happy to be in Paris, it was the best thing that could happen to me. I am a Berliner, I know the big cities, Paris is still a class above. Here I could live without risking my life. Here, I was no longer in danger of death. - The next step for the Wehrmacht troops was to establish their military headquarters. In a city deserted by two thirds of its inhabitants, the conditions are ideal. The big hotels are empty and so are most of the apartments. To avoid fighting, Paris was declared an open city by the French authorities. This means that they must bow to the demands of the victors. So the Germans have free rein. - The best guide was the Michelin into German. The Michelin guide, What are the best places and hotels? the most pleasant and emblematic They're symbols, but obviously put themselves in a grim - These requisitioned hotels are all very prestigious. Starting with the Meurice on of General Schaumburg, the The Ritz Place Vendome, the most city, is reserved for high Field Marshal Hermann Goering, commander of the Air Force, has a year-round suite there. On the left bank, the Hotel Lutetia, the It became the headquarters of the The most important of all, the the MBF, the military high It was led by General Otto Von Stulpnagel. - Each time, it is a symbol, the Arc de d'Iena, all these names are Napoleon's - In order to guarantee maximum security locations, the Nazi secret service - Plans of the cadastre were plans always indicate the entrance This is for in case of attack, always a possibility of requisition were made according to The larger a location is, the more it has one, two or even three exit doors. - Officers will have no complaints about their housing. The George V, the Raphael, the and other prestigious addresses A question of comfort, but not only that. - Each room has a telephone. Not only could we accommodate everyone, but we also had the infrastructure. What was essential was to have electricity and control of the telephone exchanges. As hotels only have beds, then you need desks, lamps, and typewriters. So the Germans draw up endless lists of demands that the French must meet. - So how does it work? Let's take the example of the Majestic with its luxury suites. On the second floor, room 119 became in charge of managing the Next door, the former room 118 has been transformed into a secretariat. 117 is now used for the registration of newly arrived soldiers. A few floors up, on the fourth floor, the former He was in charge of controlling the entire The highest military authorities are invited. The decoration is simple and spartan, a portrait of Hitler and that's all, military rigor obliges. In all, the Germans requisitioned 400 hotels in Paris. The owners of these hotels The occupant pays his bill, It is up to France to pay the costs 400 million francs, or 160 - They set up a bank account into which the French government would pay 400 million francs daily. It is with this account that occupation. Hotels, but also Germany pays its bills, but with French money. - For their needs, the Germans put their hands on apartments, even entire buildings. That of the very prestigious London which became the credit Then on the buildings and apartments of Parisian Jews who had to flee the Nazis, and no question, of course, to pay a rent. - If you are a Jew, a Freemason, you are not allowed to own the were spoliations, requisitions, were called the apartments The Rothschild mansions, for example. - The Rothschild mansion on Avenue Sipo-SD, known as the Gestapo and the It is the armed wing of the Nazi party, known for its ruthlessness towards the enemies of the Reich. - Each time, this place is returned, a For the time being, the SS and the Sipo-SD The real power is in the hands of the Wehrmacht, the German army, but only for the moment. In addition to the hotels and buildings requisitioned, and Pitie Salpetriere, and a dental clinic There are also barracks, including Prince Eugene, Military School It is here that the soldiers will be housed in much simpler conditions. - Certain districts were privileged was considered the red-light On the 10th, 11th, 19th, and 20th, there is very little German presence. - The occupant declared a curfew. No one in the streets of Paris from 11 p.m. and windows must be closed. The Germans want a deserted city seen from the sky, invisible at night. The gates of the capital are put under and roadblocks, everyone has to show The French, of course, but also the the Ausweis, a pass valid from To get it, go to the Kommandantur, place de l'Opera. - The Kommandantur is the equivalent regulates all the administrative It issues papers that require authorization from the Germans. It also functions as a reception point for German soldiers. They find everything they are looking for at the Kommandantur. - To really make sure that Paris major intersections of the flourish to direct the troops to barracks and of course the command centers. During the summer of 1940, Paris was transformed into a German city. First demonstration of strength victory parade at the foot 10,000 soldiers march at a goose-step on a deserted avenue. - The German units made their first victory parade not on the Champs-Elysees as it is often said, but on avenue Foch. As you can see on the pictures, the Arc de Triomphe is a bit slanted. If you ask me, it was an attempt not to offend the French too much. - Nevertheless, for these men, it is a great moment of power. A young Austrian soldier remembers. - we went through Paris. I think it was We were proud to have beaten the French so quickly. - The best is yet to come, the surrender of the hereditary enemy, ten days later. Hitler comes in person, He demanded that the French surrender as the Germans had done 22 years earlier, in 1918. First of all the place, the clearing of Rethondes, near Compiegne, 50 kilometers north of Paris. Then this wagon was specially brought out that the French and Germans signed The Fuhrer triumphed a few days later with a surprise visit to Paris at 6 am. His only trip to this city, has fascinated him since his youth. - He was at the Eiffel Tower, at the Trocadero, where the famous photo of him was taken. Then he went to the Opera House. there who has the keys and can During this visit, Hitler noticed from the plans he had studied in his youth. He knew these plans of the Opera the concierge confirmed to him We can see how fascinated he was by the city. - Later, Hitler would entrust his architect Albert Speer: It was my dream to visit Paris. I often asked myself whether Paris should be destroyed. When we have rebuilt the new Berlin, Paris will be no more than its shadow. Then why destroy it?&quot; Hitler shared this fascination with Joseph Goebbels, Nazi For Goebbels, Paris was the showcase place where it was good to live, - In Goebbels' eyes, Paris had to hold a special place within the Reich. He quickly realized the need to preserve the atmosphere and the unique character of this city. Establishing a typically German into a second Berlin, was not Paris, the showcase city, was the soldiers, where they - Paris will be the city of the warrior's rest where he can forget the torments of the battlefield. If the Germans have won the war, will they be able to win the hearts of the Parisians? Late summer 1940. With the armistice signed, the war is well and truly over, at least in France. The Wehrmacht troops now become occupation troops. Little by little, the daily routine falls into place. - First of all, there is the permanent staff There are between 20 and 25,000 of them In Paris, there is no need for combat of soldiers that can be mobilized Then there is the industry on the periphery which develops weapons for the Germans. In particular, the tanks and it takes soldiers to try them. - There are not only men in the German army. Young women auxiliaries of the Wehrmacht arrived as reinforcements. They made up less than 10 percent of war effort by taking up positions and They are mainly secretaries or operators in transmissions. The French immediately found a nickname for them, the grey mice. If they get involved, it is not necessarily for ideological reasons. - The uniform was very fancy, it was a suit. A suit was a very elegant thing would give these women a suit Most of them came from rather modest homes and thought that this uniform was something very special. - The war also allowed them to escape the role of housewife imposed by Nazi ideology. As a bonus, they discover Hitler's new empire with its jewel, Paris. When they were assigned to Germany a little disappointed because Among the favorite destinations, there was of course France and especially Paris. It was the number one Paris, city of fashion and love. - Among them, there is Gertrud, Germany. She is one of the lucky She was 20 years old at the time. - I had no idea what to expect in Paris. I was just glad I didn't end up in a German weapons factory. I was assigned to the Transport Kommandantur Nord. - Gertrud arrived in 1940 with a group of 30 girls. They were housed in a hotel near the Madeleine. In Paris, everything is new for them. - We were in a city. Most of us were not familiar with big cities. We felt foreign, a little lost. You really had to get it into your head that you were now in France and not in Germany. At the beginning, we were not allowed to leave our hotel alone. We were driven to our work. We were a bit scared, we didn't know how the French would react to our presence. - How will the French react? This is there is no question of letting For his first month of stay, the soldier Klaus is confined in a Parisian barracks. - First, we had to move into our barracks at the Military Academy. Finding our marks, cleaning our uniforms. The daily life of a soldier is always organized to the minute. We always find things to do. There's never a boring moment, but we weren't allowed to go out right away. - The orders came from the Fuhrer himself, on June 18, 1940. &quot;The soldier must be an example of terms of uprightness, good humor, In short, Hitler ordered each soldier to behave properly with the Parisians. Objective, to make the enemy an ally. - In 1940, the French population felt abandoned by their own government. On the German side, it was realized that against their state was an opportunity - At the highest level, an agreement 1940, when Hitler met Marshal With this handshake, the veteran collaboration of the Vichy government It now remains to win the hearts of the Parisians. A real operation of seduction then starts. The soldiers parade every day boots are impeccably polished Then, in a very strong symbolic gesture, at the tomb of the Unknown Soldier A highly calculated tribute. - The Germans had the reputation especially in France. Here, and it was discovered that they did not look That they didn't take small children either, something we weren't so sure of at first. They had the aura of winners, they fascinated everyone without exception and even the men. It is understandable that the arrival of uniforms, leather boots on their motorcycles, - On the steps of the Paris Opera the military bands try to The canteens of the national socialist soup kitchen distribute free food to the needy. There are anecdotes that tell who played in the war all wanted because they were the winners. - Propaganda had done its work. Then, from July 1940, the Parisians returned from exile. Among them, Jean-Claude, a 19-year-old Parisian. He discovers his city and the new lords. We returned to Paris and I can still see the posters a child on his shoulders and it was written: &quot;Abandoned It struck me, we looked at it with a certain amount of disbelief. We had no idea. We returned, and everything was quiet. - The worst fears are gone on both sides. For the German soldiers, the year 1940 will be the year of all pleasures. Klaus, the Berlin soldier, finally gets his first leave. This is Paris and this is me on the second floor of the Eiffel Tower. We had gone up to the second were out of order and it - Klaus' memories are carefully stored in a luxurious album donated by the Reich Army. Leather cover, swastika helmet and this inscription in German, my military service. Thousands of them carefully compiled these little the German soldiers embarked on guided tours In front of the Sacre-Coeur, Notre-Dame, the Opera, the Louvre, the Invalides, without forgetting the Trocadero and on stage in the city of light These guided tours end in a highly symbolic way in the Hall of Mirrors of the Palace of Versailles. The same place where the infamous treaty for Germany was signed in 1919. The revenge is so perfect. - For my part, I wouldn't call it tourism, it trivializes the occupation. It is clear that the German soldiers present themselves as the victors and the new lords. Hitler and Goebbels wanted this. Soldiers had to take pictures to show pictures home to explain to their In this soldier's album, the photos and comments are clear. &quot;These are the new masters,&quot; he comments on this photo taken in front of the Palace of Versailles. This photo of the decapitated statue of Louis XIV inspired another comment, &quot;France without a head&quot;. - There is irony, of course, but mostly it is the idea that they are the new faces. - Yet another album of an officer with this photo taken on the roof of the Arc de Triomphe. The boot on the balustrade, the pose of the new master of Paris is cleverly studied. - In the occupied countries, photography At the same time, the soldiers The civilians had no more. Only the Germans were allowed to take pictures and they took advantage of it. - For these young Germans, the real curiosity lies elsewhere. Who are these Parisians? - It was a new world for me, but I couldn't talk with French because I didn't speak their language. So I remained silent, the French also remained silent because they didn't speak a word of German either. The young operator Gertrud tries her luck with her few words of French learned at school. She starts with the concierge and the maids of her hotel. I always made an effort to talk with them. They were rather reserved than others. They had their national pride. - How did you expect the Parisians to like me? We had defeated them. The French accepted their fate lived according to this principle, We tried to pretend we didn't see we came across German troops going When we saw them coming conspicuously, we went towards the windows and these windows, that is to say - It is while leaving her hotel that universe, another mentality, - The French are a bit shallow, they do not take life seriously, unlike the Germans. - For the Germans, the French are and Parisian women are the In a letter to his wife, Private Ernst takes offense at their appearance. &quot;You wouldn't believe your eyes when you see the damn makeup that women smear on their faces. If my wife did that, I would pack up and leave right away. I can't believe it! Very often, I have to think about something else, otherwise, I get extremely sick. Those bright red lips, those faces highlighted in black and those Behind this flashiness is a lot of smut.&quot; - For the Germans, it was a culture shock. from the German feminine ideal advocated Concerned about the behavior of the troops, chapter to French women in its official &quot;The Parisian woman is coquettish, even if feminine assets, she has a strong sense of - We wanted to avoid misunderstandings the soldiers that there were A French woman is not a prostitute because she looks like a - Some soldiers tried their luck. - There were some who were looking for contact. It was during their big walk, miss. They would say that in order to try to make a connection, and sometimes it worked. - However, the General Staff did not approve of any contact between its troops and the Parisians. There are even very firm instructions given to the soldiers. &quot;Avoid all contact with the civilian population. It is forbidden to take French women in a company car or to hold them by the arm.&quot; - The soldier who develops too close a relationship end up forgetting his role as a soldier, - Paris was nicknamed the city without eyes. The Germans looked at the French women who ignored them, it is untenable in the long run. - Divided by war, language and culture, vanquished live together in the 1,000-year Paris has many assets to which the invaders will succumb. At the end of the summer of 1940, possession of the heart of Paris but not only, they also invest the of the occupation was a veritable - The Germans had a buying frenzy. They bought things they couldn't find at home, like tourists. They bought everything they could. even sell them an 1870s garter - From the moment we are no longer at the commercial relationship that If a soldier refuses to pay, it is theft and will be severely punished by the German military court. - For the first time in their lives, of 90 Reichsmarks was the equivalent Except that with a new exchange occupant, its purchasing power It is only pocket money, the soldiers are fed and housed at the expense of France. Then, they discover the joys of shopping. - I bought some perfume, it was called Soir de Paris. All the soldiers were buying this at the time. It was a blue bottle with stars. Honestly, I don't even remember if it smelled good, but the bottle was very pretty. - There was not a single soldier send silk stockings in a it was great luxury. - It was absolutely necessary that we discover the department stores, Aux Trois Quartiers and Galeries Lafayette. It was a real adventure for us. We didn't know the big stores like this. We were used to the little grocer in the village. We were very happy to discover exotic fruits that came from far away countries. We had never eaten bananas before. - For officers who receive double pay, it's even better. In these conditions, a few extras are allowed, only the top of the range. This is the case of this officer, Hans only one obsession, to spoil his son - I had the most beautiful bikes French bike that you couldn't He bought all this stuff in Paris. My father also brought back luxurious perfumes and great wines from Burgundy and Bordeaux. My father had the style, he was like a rooster in Paris. - Germans are not only interested in luxury goods. Amazingly, they buy food to send home to the heart of the triumphant Reich. - They even sent half pigs or fresh eggs individually wrapped in soft boxes. The soldier wanted to fulfill to help his family who had Being away from home, all to the home was to send as At the same time it was part of the Reich's strategy. The more cheap items soldiers sent from occupied countries, the less shortage there was in Germany. - France was a reserve for Germany on and whose end the occupier The goal is to exploit all the resources of this country to continue the war against England. - The number of shipments became so great that the Reichpost was overwhelmed. She decided to limit the weight of the packages per soldier. The new lords engaged in a veritable official agricultural and industrial production An unequal division provided for by the conditions of the armistice. Parisians then experienced a real shortage of food, but also of fuel. Another plundering continues more discreetly. That of the works of art stolen from the great Parisian Jewish collectors, especially for Goering and Hitler, big lovers of art. - Goering came more than 20 times and helped himself. of course, and the emptying of apartments that belonged The objects were sorted and the aside. Indeed, it is an organized - Between 1941 and 1944, 29 convoys represented a total of 138 wagons The greatest looting of artworks of all time. The Germans do not know it yet, but the gentle occupation of Paris will soon come to an end. On June 22, 1941, 4,000 kilometers from Paris, Wehrmacht troops invaded the Soviet Union. Hitler launched Operation Barbarossa, Europe was once again ablaze in the East. A turning point for the war, but also for Paris. It was the beginning of the armed resistance. At the Barbes metro station Alfons Moser, a military officer was shot and killed by Pierre Georges, better - Towards the end of 1940, the population awoke from the shock of defeat. Students demonstrate against the occupation of the Champs-Elysees on Armistice Day 1918. They were arrested during a joint operation between the French and the Germans. These are the first signs that public opinion is shifting. - This peaceful demonstration of students, triggers fierce repression. Demonstration or attack, any anti-German action is punishable by death. A sentence handed down in mock trials. If the culprits are not found, the Wehrmacht applies ruthless measures dictated by Berlin. - As soon as a member of the more so if it is a higher rank, One hundred hostages for every German killed. - The occupier makes his sentences known on posters printed in both languages. In each case, death sentences. The objective is simple, to reign terror. - We always feared that when we arrived there would be a red poster with the names I remember very well having read the poster announcing the execution of Estienne d'Orves. - The young French Navy captain was one of the 100 hostages executed following the Barbes attack. - It was also a bit scary and you could feel these were people who were resisting, who - The Wehrmacht makes the soldiers believe behind every beautiful woman, there How do you go against human nature and frustrate an entire army of sexual contacts? - I can tell you that a horde of young men with hormones on fire is like dynamite. It's very dangerous, we have to hold it. - The solution, brothels reserved Wehrmacht. An initiative encouraged &quot;If the soldier is expected to give he must also have the freedom - Dozens of brothels were requisitioned. were French, and Jewish women were forbidden. Brothels for ordinary soldiers are in the working class areas, an unthinkable pleasure in the Reich. - What was forbidden in Germany was allowed in France. I don't know if this is freedom, but it allowed me to enjoy things that I didn't have at home, like brothels for example. - In a letter to his wife, the the operation of the brothels &quot;My dear, I didn't go. I have to say that these say that a prostitute makes an average of Imagine what a state they must be in. Good morning show.&quot; Then there are the brothels the Chabanais, a stone's throw An institution already legendary in famous and very modern One-Two-Two, High-end brothels with luxurious bathrooms and furniture leave The women wait for the customers in boudoirs with sultry decor. Dressed or not, they are handpicked. Germans are obsessed with hygiene. The real enemy of the Wehrmacht, venereal diseases. - Paris has a reputation as a city of pleasure. Rightly or wrongly, perhaps rightly so. A reputation also, of dirty city facilities are not the same. the French didn't wash every day, woman, the venereal woman - Syphilis was not a curable disease at that are equipped with a gynecological office But that's not all. Soldiers preventive treatments. On the addresses of the brothels appear on the left and Soldiers have to go there before In such an atmosphere, things A disgruntled soldier and it is the punitive expedition in a brothel. &quot;We had to show them who the lords were. We couldn't let that go. We went into the brothel, pulled around a bit and went up to see the prostitute. We stripped her, threw her stuff out the window and beat her up. People just watched us do it. It was our revenge, we were at the height of our power.&quot; - Some soldiers are terrorists. The Austrian soldier Heinz remembers. &quot;If they ended up hating us, it was our fault. We were arrogant. During the patrols, we checked if people respected the curfew and if the curtains were well drawn. When we saw lights, the officers was because of things like that The challenge for the General Staff is to avoid these slippages at all costs. In the middle of Paris, the occupier remade there are two German bookshops, on the rue Three movie theaters were requisitioned, and the Rex with a huge 2000 seat theater. On the menu, German films, romantic rhymes, but also pure and simple propaganda. - It was necessary to reconstitute for these soldiers, to give The big challenge was to keep them occupied and contained. For example, they had to be able to celebrate Christmas the German way. We had to allow them to live a bit like back home, it was very important. - In addition, Paris has several soldier's ones were in Place de Clichy, Saint-Michel Under the portrait of the Fuhrer, carrot soup, fried fish with All this in a typically German atmosphere. - We can have fun with each other and a little bit with the Germans too. That is to say, a place where you can newspapers, German bookstores and - In these places, there was still food. In the Parisian brasseries, there was not much left. The menu was small, but there was plenty of choice there. - In the luxurious airmen's hostel there is even a faithfully reconstructed Enough to make them forget their homesickness. In Private Kurt's letters to his fiancee and cakes are really good and Then, we let off steam by playing ping-pong and when I saw the little French waitress, I thought it was you, my little heart. I felt very lonely, I wish I could be with you so much.&quot; Then there is the cafe des Soldats the famous church. The most luxurious, The Wehrmacht's recreation officer officer who sent the latest In his memoirs, he describes the atmosphere of these places. &quot;The cafe was packed, it was do was eat a cake and forget The soldiers were obsessed with sweets. What was served was certainly not haute cuisine. Poor quality flour, a little milk thing was the decoration and In one weekend alone, we sold 22,000 of these cakes.&quot; Officer Lorenz is tireless in his efforts to provide all kinds of entertainment for the soldiers. - It organized sports competitions of real small Olympic Games. Track and field competitions, running races, high jump. In short, there were all disciplines. - I did a lot of sports, especially swimming. A swimming pool was reserved for us where I went very often. I took the opportunity to get my first aid certificate. Then soccer, the national sport in Germany. The Wehrmacht organized a championship. The Luftwaffe, the air force against armored division and each time The Germans always win. Hans Lorenz even solicited artists among the soldiers for painting and drawing contests. Funny painters in uniform will the most picturesque corners The result is sometimes surprising. Like these small drawings of the soldier Schmitz which put in scene his fantasies. Not sure the Fuhrer would have approved. - They wanted to keep the soldiers busy. things and that's why we organized Among the soldiers, there were real artists. - His father does not lack imagination. He even had an old barge refurbished to offer the soldiers cruises on the Seine. Every day, 200 of them embarked on the Touriste II, recognizable of course by its swastika flag. The only civil boat authorized to circulate on the Seine. On the program, flonflons, romantic ballads and beautiful accompanists. The boat trips are promoted in German guidebooks published in Paris. The most famous of these is the German pariscope specially Metro map, Parisian cultural programs, Wehrmacht program. Everything is done to make the German soldier feel at home in the great metropolis. - This guide is also becoming very important for Parisian merchants because they can put ads in it. Photo studios offer to take portraits Lido and other cabarets advertise their The cinema, the theater, and cultural life in general pick up fairly quickly. The Germans are also very active with this kind of guide. - In a few months, the Wigleiter grew The Parisian advertisers are jostling Ads in German, of course. Fashion shows, furs, furniture, baby stuff and also restaurants. In Montmartre, one of the most popular neighborhoods famous restaurant is called La Mere Catherine It is fully booked every day. For good Parisian bistro has adapted his menu French and German culinary tastes are like shellfish and seafood, while This is not consumed and so much the better for the French who can eat something. On the menu at La Mere Catherine, Strasbourg some of the food habits of the occupiers Shredded carrots may sound didn't exist before the arrival One started to eat grated carrots in occupied France, with the occupant and besides one continues. The most daring of the soldiers will try French cuisine, totally exotic to them. Here is a letter from a soldier who decided My dear, sweet wife, I want to tell you something I tried snails for the first time and I must say that it was good. I closed my eyes while eating the first one. The look and taste is a bit like kidney. I could eat it every day. Paris was the city of firsts. One had discovered hot chocolate, They learned to drink champagne, alcohol and even absinthe which some drank in bars. The officers and the staff live like nabobs. Witness this menu served at a gala oysters, bouchees a la reine, fillets chicken casserole with mushrooms and to finish in a light While the Parisian population was counting prized by the occupier were overflowing Like at Maxim's, the most prestigious address in the capital, Hermann Goring's favorite canteen. Arno Breker, the Fuhrer's favorite sculptor and a regular visitor, would later write. Maxim's was a feast for the eyes of which I have never seen before In 1941, while the atmosphere in Europe, the Nazis began to round This was the beginning of the Final Solution, the extermination of the Jews of Europe. As on these terrifying images were shot in Latvia by the executioners themselves. The organizer of these massacres arrived in Paris in May 1942. This is Reinhard Heydrich, head of the SS, the security squads. Here Heydrich meets Rene Bousquet, on the left in the picture, chief of the French Police. She will do the dirty work. The French felt that if they would retain some autonomy Since the Vichy government agreed of things, the anti-Jewish there's really no problem. The first measure was the decree of June 7, 1942. star. 83,000 stars were distributed in Parisian To add insult to injury, they have to pay for them with ration coupons. This measure deeply affects Parisians. - So there, I have a very clear old man who had the Legion of So he had his lawyer's robe, the Legion of Honor and a yellow star. I must say I was surprised and touched. Moved to see this segregation, this racial segregation that did not match in any way. They had to get into the last car of the subway. I remember that I and others also got on that car. It was a bit of solidarity for them. Which was dangerous, after all. We didn't up the Jews who were in that car, - July 1942. The Nazis announced 100,000 Jews from France. So On July 16, the Vel' d'Hiv round-up and children were arrested and Only three percent will come back alive. - At that moment, France entered the German program of the Final Solution as a real henchman. Between 1942 and 1944, 50,000 Parisian Jews were were the darkest hours that the City of Light Fall 1942. The Germans have been enjoying the Parisian way of life for two years. Gertrud, the little Wehrmacht operator, now has her favorite spots. - In the Luxembourg garden, I always found someone to talk to. When we saw little children, we talked to the mothers and it was really nice. - She goes on an adventure to the heights of she takes her courage in both hands and - I talked to a painter. I wanted to know if he was able to make a living from his work, he ended up making a drawing of the Sacred Heart for me and he even wrote my name on it. - This idyll is deceptive, the Parisian resistance does not sleep. On September 16, 1942, a first attack took place Champs-Elysees. The homemade bomb hidden at She then misses by a few minutes the soldiers who were to come out of the cinema just next door. Only 24 hours later, another Grand Rex when about 2,000 soldiers This time, four people were killed and 17 injured. The German response, several dozen hostages shot in retaliation. Heinz Lorentz, who was in the crowd, will comment on these events in his memoirs. &quot;I think that the goal of the resistance kill German soldiers but to divide That's what they were able to do.&quot; This kind of action does not remain without impact on the daily life of German soldiers. They are no longer allowed to weapons becomes mandatory. - We had to be careful, especially in the subway. There were dangerous places. If you got too close to the edge of the platform, you could be pushed onto the tracks. - You must not believe that the resistance traumatized the soldiers. The Germans are professionals. The secret service and the Sipo-SD were trained to track down political opponents. On the other hand, you have, for example, a small to print a leaflet and who finds himself completely At the beginning, the small groups of resistance fighters that are formed have many difficulties. A little information is enough to bring down an entire network. - Paris will always be Paris, the Resistance will not prevent the soldiers Lido, Moulin Rouge, Folies Bergere which The most typical in the eyes of rue de Liege, in the ninth arrondissement. These shows fascinated the soldier Lenz who of the revue was a delight to the eye, Joke games, songs, and women in multiple costumes, if you can still call it that. One of the pieces was for our We played this beautiful music You can imagine that despite my enthusiasm for the review, these tones made my heart ache a little.&quot; - The Parisian nights allowed the soldiers to enjoy what the Reich considered degenerate art. Swing, the music of the American enemy, is strictly forbidden in Germany. The soldiers also love Gypsy bands and Django Reinhardt. At the same time, the Reich deports thousands of Roma to concentration camps. - The Germans are very fond of these shows and sometimes there are real fights between soldiers and French public for the best seats in the house. French stars such as Maurice Chevalier, Arletty and Sacha Guitry performed They became the darlings of the German public. - In this war, Paris is not a military target. situation and you can spend even more - Thousands of miles from Paris, the fighting and Klaus, the Berlin soldier, joins Other soldiers arrive directly from the battlefields, Paris is the ultimate reward for their sacrifices. One of them is Gisbert Witte. signalman has always suffered Seriously ill, Gisbert was sent to convalesce few weeks from the battlefield and he - With each new transfer, the first thing that interested my father was the cultural program. - Staying in the hospital was other fellow soldiers like him, Their dream is to go to the opera. Only officer's uniforms or tails are allowed. Gisbert and his friends will then draw up a plan. - The third of the gang was a waiter in the officers' mess. So he borrowed tails from the coat check for the evening. He found the right sizes. The three of them put them on, they made the wall and that's how they spent some great evenings. My father told me later that would have done with them Yet, they have done it many times. - The Opera, the Opera Comique, the Salle of seats reserved for the troops and the - At the Hebertot theater, in the of German officer's caps. I was it was not a show of naked dancers, it was really an intellectual show. That there are so many Germans are interested in French intellectual - The Germans also want to show the Parisians that they are a great nation of culture. The best of the Reich is brought under the direction of Herbert Von Karajan. It takes place at the Theatre de three nights a week to provide More modestly, Gertrud also participated together with the Protestant In 1942, on the occasion of Christmas celebrations, she sang Bach's Passion at Notre-Dame. At the same time, bombs were falling on Berlin, Hamburg, and Munich. - When I returned to Germany Parisian adventures, the choir, My father asked me if we didn't know about the war. If they really lived like in peacetime. - In Paris, the city of exception, the war spares the soldiers. Then Gisbert, the opera lover, will do everything to avoid returning to the battlefields. - He knew that once his treatment was over, he would have to return to the Russian front. So, with one of his friends who had medical of urine and blood in order to convince the Thanks to this, he was not sent back to the front. To us, his children, he always said that it saved his life. It is important to know that none of the men in his unit returned from Russia alive. - For the moment, Paris remains the preferred refuge for the troops, but for how much longer? 1943, the turning point year. In Stalingrad, German soldiers or are taken prisoner by the For the first time, the Parisians feel that the wind is changing. The press was controlled by the occupier and the newspapers only reported glorious facts. So the Parisians have to look for information at the English BBC. - We used to put on Radio London and play it too loud, always afraid that It happened that the Germans entered the houses and immediately turn on the listening to. If they came people who listened to Radio London started to get into trouble. - The French were quietly rebelling As proof, these posters of the collaboration, Fight against Bolshevism becomes after a few brushstrokes, fight against the Boche. Parisians choose posters in the metro to do the same. - As it is forbidden to smoke were signs in every car, Rauchen The French noticed that by cutting some letters, it could remain, Green Race. It was the Germans, they were dressed was tense, the Germans did not In three years of daily contact with civilians, from occupants, some became friends, even lovers. Officer Heintz Lorenz flaunts his most beautiful Parisian conquests without batting an eye. - My parents had a very open relationship. My father was a real ladies' man. Both of them did not miss any opportunity. They lived their lives on their own. - Love between French women and German soldiers is unthinkable. Yet, from hate to indifference, from peaceful cohabitation to friendships and from sex to love, human nature does its work. At the beginning of April 1943, arrived in Paris. Marguerite She was carrying the child of Otto Ammon, in the Air Force. She came to Paris to A special regime allows women to give birth anonymously under a false name. The fruit of this forbidden union, little Daniel, a child of love. - My father loved my mother always loved my father and My mother was at home and I put a picture of my father on television. She didn't know about it. She comes unexpectedly and looks: &quot;Otto, Otto&quot;. It looked like a young girl who finds her lover. It's something that is... She was crying and crying. Yes, a very beautiful story. - This story between Otto and Mathilde the roads of Saint-Malo where - She was riding her bike on the road to Saint-Malo, it must have been her day off. She met my father who was with a car and his friend. They stopped the car and talked with my mother. My father had a little detail that amused me a lot, he was eating cherries. My father gave my mother cherries. - Mathilde finds a job as a where Otto lives. The lovers On both sides, people know about it, but they turn a blind eye. The problems come when Daniel is born. - My father went up to Paris to enter. He was not allowed - Germans are not allowed to recognize these children and marry French women. All this was forbidden by the Wehrmacht. - Otto will see his son only once to hug him. - He told his mother that he had die, he wanted me to be raised - The war takes its toll and Otto's is at the age of four that Daniel - I went back to school. They didn't know me and they came to me saying that I was the son of Boche. What does it mean? What is this? Then my mother had made a Kraut. Only words, the most absurd, All I wanted to do was cry - Being the child of the enemy, carry all his life. Under the the beautiful story between Otto and Mathilde turns - My mother was very embarrassed. I was a real embarrassment to my mother. She had shame that she couldn't... There was always someone there too to remind her, always someone. - Even today, it is difficult to children born of relationships between Estimates range from 60 to 200,000. So many hidden love stories lived in shame. June 6, 1944, the day of the landing on British and Canadians open the Western Now war is raging 250 kilometers four years, Gertrud sees the consequences, - They had to be cared for, bandaged and given first aid. More than one was dying. - In Paris, however, the high command The instructions from Berlin We must inspire confidence in the Parisians, but behind the scenes, we are active. - At that time, at the beginning Staff was considering the but the return to Germany is not considered. Then we start burning files systematically. The summer of 1944 is described as very snowy with the bits of ash that were falling down. - The events are going to be precipitated. On August 19, the first fighting It was the beginning of the A total surprise for Gertrud and for the first time she is afraid. - We were no longer safe in the streets, there was shooting everywhere. There, it was really a war. - The only option is to flee. Some have Thanks to his friends in Paris, he found For ordinary soldiers, nothing is planned, because for Hitler, defeat was never an option. - The German is necessarily victorious because good soldier is the one who dies in combat - The 20,000 soldiers were then left to their own devices. Their options are thin, in this month The railroads had been sabotaged Gertrud has only a few hours to find a solution. - No one cared about us getting metro, my girlfriends and I, There, there were still some German trucks already damaged by bullet holes. One of them took us. On the road, we had to stop several times to hide. We were shot at. It was horrible. I wonder how we survived that. - For Gertrud, the first step is Verdun and then the Netherlands. For her, the war continues. At the Hotel Meurice, the new commander received an order from Berlin, costs to the last man, he was going the telephone center, the Senate Everything is in place for Paris to become is that most of the soldiers have - The Germans tried at the last minute to assemble makeshift units. That's when we realized that among still in Paris, very few had They were mostly uniformed officials, but not soldiers. - August 23rd. General Leclerc's second armored division was 50 kilometers from Paris. Nothing can stop it. So Von Choltitz knows that defending Paris is a waste of time. He even negotiated a ceasefire with the resistance. In Berlin, there is no information. with the now famous question, - It was not an order of destruction. Von Choltitz arranged the truth war because he thought the He had no interest in informing Berlin that he had negotiated an armistice with the Resistance. This could be considered high treason. - He behaved more like a soldier than a Nazi by to preserve Paris and the troops than to go into - On August 24, around 6 p.m., the first French in Paris in front of the Hotel de Ville, which - All of a sudden, we heard the day, the radio had passed into The announcer repeated, asking ring their churches for the It was really hot, it was happening the churches around us ringing, - The next day, August 25, 1944, the fighting raged. They were particularly violent around the Kommandantur, the Majestic More than 1,000 French and 3,200 One after the other, the German Le Meurice is one of the first, It is here that Von Choltitz signs the surrender, precisely at 2:45 pm. - Then, he also had to sign surrender orders accompanied by French or Allied soldiers - Paris is liberated. These images of jubilant scenes went around the world, as well as those of the former German lords. Nearly 13,000 of them were taken as prisoners. The reversal of roles for the Parisians, is quite a symbol. - The German who marched from the Concorde to the army, therefore defeated and conversely, the defeated - Parisians have not forgotten the occupation, the shortages, the raids, and the repression. Seeing the former occupant in a defeated position is a relief that sometimes leads to outbursts. - There are scenes of soldiers will be molested, who will There is really measured violence that is verbal and physical, but it is a violence of release. It is really the civilian population is not only men but women and Even if it is measured, they take or this victor who is now - For these soldiers, the war is now over. From occupiers, they became painted on their uniform, The 800,000 German prisoners clear the beaches and work The last of them will return in 1948. Gertrud arrived safely in Germany. home region, got married, She now lives in a nursing home in northern Germany. Klaus, the soldier of the first hour, spent States. He returned in 1948 after an eight-year The soldier Gisbert returned to Germany and opened a household appliance store in Kronenbourg. Music remained his passion. daughter preciously keeps his Officer Hans Lorenz found his son. Until his death in 1966, he continued to organize cultural events such as the German Wine Festival. As for Daniel Rouxel, the child of Boche, he met his German family at the age of 12. In 2009, after years of administrative hassles, he obtained dual German citizenship. His name is now Daniel Rouxel-Ammon. In Paris, no trace remains of the dark years of the occupation. The Germans' fascination for the City of Light remained intact.