(upbeat jazz music) - Watch what happens into this ring-shaped trough Look, the flame goes round and round. Isn't that weird? I really wanted to figure and in doing so, I fell about things called excitable mediums. Excitable mediums are really interesting, and by the end I had a handful of designs that made the flames do This one in particular is a lot of fun, but first, why was I dowsing my 3D prints in lighter fluid in the first place? Well, it's actually something and they sent me an email. Rudy Stevens designed the part as a cap for a small, closed To make it a snug fit, and mold it in place. Using lighter fluid for the task, he stumbled upon this weird phenomenon, so, of course, I said, &quot;That's amazing. &quot;Please send me the file so and, you know, it worked like a charm, but it got me thinking, Like, it can be quite hard and it doesn't always burn So, I asked Oscar Morris to design me a parameterized CAD file so and see what effect that had. This is what Oscar does The link to his website See how I can change the width of the ring, I can also change the I wanted to have that ability, because you'll notice in Rudy's design that the opening is and I wondered if that was important. The first thing I varied was but I also varied the so I could nest them all and print them at the same time. I don't think that made and it turns out there is a bit of a sweet spot around five millimeters. If the trough is too wide, the whole thing just catches fire instead of forming, and if the trough is too but it doesn't last very long. With the width of the trough I then varied the size of the opening. With a very small opening, it's hard for the lighter When it does, you get a small flame that seems to travel very and then go out. Conversely, if the trough is too open, the whole thing tends to set on fire instead of having a flame whizzing round. It's a bit like when you can get a whizzing flame eventually when there's only a bit of lighter fluid, but then it doesn't last very long. I also thought it'd be interesting but where the width of until that small opening but it didn't do anything interesting. Like, it shows some of the same behavior, but just in little bursts, Making the opening point didn't seem to make a the optimum configuration seemed to be a trough that was five millimeters wide with a semi-circular cross-section. I managed to get two flames at one point, not sure how I managed that. So, what's going on? Well, when you burn lighter fluid, you're not actually burning the liquid. Instead, because the lighter it's constantly evaporating. That's why it has such a strong smell. So, above this little there's a whole bunch of whizzing about and mixing so when a flame is introduced, that mixture of hydrocarbon The heat from the burning vapor increases the rate of evaporation, so that you have a steady to keep the fire going. It's similar to how a except that with a candle, the flame first melts the solid wax, which is then drawn up through and then vaporized before My hypothesis is that when you have a very thin reservoir of then you only have a thin ring So, when it's ignited, which means the evaporation doesn't increase that much, and so the flame can't be but to the left and right there's all this unburnt vapor, so you get two flames and they die when they So, that ring of vapor arranged into a ring. If you light it at one If you keep relighting it, eventually, you get one presumably because of some or something like that. I had some success forcing a over the ring just to one then quickly removing my one of the flames, but why does it keep Well, brilliantly, in the time one full circuit of the ring, enough lighter fluid has for the flame to be able to continue, and so you get this flame that whizzes round and round and round. It's a bit like if you had a loop of fuse, but somehow, by the time to where it started, the fuse had, like, regrown or something. It's like knocking down except where you've got some putting them back up again. In other words, this mad a link to that video in the The vapor explanation would also explain why it doesn't work particularly well when the trough is too wide. A wider trough means more vapor, which means faster evaporation, and so the flame can maintain It also explains why a trough It puts a bit of distance so that the heat from the flame can't cause too much That's compared to what we saw and the flame was just but presumably, if you then you have an issue I'm not sure. So, this ring of lighter is an example of an excitable medium. An excitable medium is to switch to an excited state. In this case, it's the hydrocarbon vapor that has the potential to be on fire. That's not the full definition, though. There are three other criteria that make it an interesting subject. The first is that after it can't be excited again right away. The second characteristic is that after a certain amount of time, the medium is once again excitable. That's called the refractory time, and crucially, any part of if a neighboring part of It's such a simple definition, the fire going round and round the ring, and it's interesting just the right parameters for a thin enough channel, so that the vapor isn't after it catches fire, and a ring with long enough circumference that by the time one circuit is completed, the refractory time of and the gas above the ring It's kind of reminiscent interesting movements that You're probably familiar for example, but this is of an excitable medium, and it evolves in these interesting ways. There's lots of examples in biology. Signaling in organisms as an excitable medium. Heart fibrillation is an example of a pathological excitable medium. There's an infection and it's believed to of an excitable medium. The infection spreads, can't be infected again immediately, but after some refractory time, and you get this complex Someone called Ollie sent on the surface of a hot The bubbles are slowly evaporating, which is to say they are excitable, and to some extent each by its neighboring bubbles, it's likely that the other and so it spreads as this pulse wave across the surface of the hot chocolate. Sometimes, you think, &quot;for someone to write a paper about,&quot; and then you find out they already have. Mexican waves in sports The people are the excitable and just like with the lighter fluid ring, it's possible to get a wave that goes round and round It's possible for a forest to be in the excited state of on fire, and it fulfills all the it's just that the refractory The forest has to regrow can pass through it. On our podcast, Matt Parker &quot;How large would a &quot;to sustain a continuous forest fire &quot;going round and the ring forest, &quot;just like the flame going round and round &quot;the ring of lighter fluid?&quot; The podcast is called, &quot;A by the way, and one of and did the calculations. This is very rough, but the front of a forest fire progresses at about 10 kilometers per hour, which is surprisingly fast, actually, and some forest fires which means the refractory as one year or 8,760 hours. So, if the fire front travels and the refractory time of then the circumference would need to be 87,600 kilometers. The circumference of the at 40,000 kilometers, so if there was a forest the circumference of the Earth, it would not be long enough that goes round and round and round, but I mean, you could zigzag the forest, or maybe you could make because that grows back quickly, but anyway, there you go. That is how excitable mediums Finally, I got Oscar to design a few more cool things for me. I wanted to see what would and then came back together. That's cool, isn't it? It's interesting to see just very briefly, a sustained and it can cause other or sometimes it can act so you get more and more flames coming from that one location. And here's a spiral. (lighter clicks) And here's a figure-eight-shaped trough. I really didn't think this would work, because obviously there's a raised section where one track goes over the other, so you have it slanting either side, and I thought the lighter fluid Like, it definitely does, but I guess enough of the lighter fluid sticks around up there for at least a few times before it goes out. Then, there's this going round a central ring, and every time it passes one of the arms, a flame shoots out across the arm. That's cool, isn't it? And here's a modification of the spiral. The issue with the spiral so you set fire to one end, until it reaches the other Wouldn't it be good if you That's what the extra circle is for. The flame that goes should keep firing flames down the spiral. In reality, when you have these junctions, you often end up with a and that seems to be powering the continuous supply of but eventually, as the lighter fluid dries out more and more, the Now, there is still quite in the middle, so there's a It even sends one flame back If you want to print out there's a link in the Lighter fluid is dangerous, so that would be something and if you have any ideas for tracks that you would like to tell me on my Discord server. For example, just before I was Rudy sent me another design. This is the flames solving a maze. How cool is that? It's actually quite nice T-shirt. I don't really go for science T-shirts. It's quite subtle, though. This video is sponsored by Jane Street. Jane Street is a quantitative trading firm with offices in New Amsterdam, and Singapore. They use techniques from machine learning, distributed systems, and statistics to trade on They're also a bunch of people who love solving interesting problems, about a lot of the same For an example of their nerdiness, they designed this T-shirt, look. It shows, like, how particles You know, if you've got, and a particle whizzes because of the magnetic field, but some of them aren't, and it kind of slows and you use it in science, like and things like that, but is the Jane Street logo. They currently have a that are accepting applications and London offices for pre-university and university students. These programs are part of to give as many people as more about what they do. The programs themselves but focus on topics that things like complex mathematical theory, programming, statistics and more, and it's definitely worth saying you don't need a background Jane Street is looking for curious people from any background with and creative problem solving. In other words, people like you. Check out the link in the description now to see what opportunities and to see if any of They currently have three and one in London, and applications are so check out Jane Street today. Hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit subscribe and the algorithm thinks (upbeat jazz music)