Whenever I cover wind turbines many of you At the moment, I've got both good news and The bad news is that the current market for The good news? We have a lot of new innovations that look The team behind the U.S.-based startup Harmony for the masses and allow them to have their Plus, if you remember our video on Aeromine's update on how its "motionless" design But of course, these are far and away from power generation to our backyards. Residential wind has to have its moment someday, Or should I say, "but wind?" I'm Matt Ferrell ... welcome to Undecided. This video is brought to you by Surfshark, I have solar on my home, but it's obviously on sunnier days. Being able to augment that with wind power That's one of the reasons why companies catching my eye, but I'll get to them in Chances are that if you're interested in renewable energy, you wind is nowhere near the of residential solar...for now. Why? Well, I've previously discussed the practicality of home wind generation in depth. But for those who aren't up to speed, here's First of all, just like with any kind of home installation space. However, what makes it different from solar While solar allows for somebody to make use much more demanding. This isn't only a function of the height far off the ground, but the distance needed cause turbulence. Otherwise, you risk not only undercutting of the turbine. So, with those factors in mind, the U.S. Office you should have at least 1 acre of land for For an idea of just how much that is, keep a US single family home is 2,273 square feet of an acre of land (or 43,560 square feet However, it's worth noting that about 19% and this typically goes hand-in-hand with having enough room to Sorry, city slickers. That's not to say that urban areas are completely There are other companies, like O-Wind and wind turbines directly into existing city I can dive into these companies in future videos if you're interested, That brings us right to the next barrier to It might seem obvious at first, but to take you need...wind. If your local weather doesn't promote strong turning, then wind simply isn't worth your And not all wind is the kind that you want. So what separates "good" wind from bad? What are acceptable wind speed ranges, and It depends heavily on where you live. In a 2022 study on distributed wind setups Renewable Energy Laboratory, its authors identify as areas of interest. These places tick all three of the boxes that high retail electricity prices, and favorable On a state-by-state basis, New York, Minnesota, stand out for holding the "largest economic The researchers also spotlight my own personal as a solid contender because of its particularly It's very expensive here. When it comes to capturing wind energy in talking about wind speeds at roughly 10 meters And if you look at this map from NREL on those trend: most places have a speed of 3 to 5 That's not nearly fast enough for wind energy However, a bunch of companies are trying to more effective turbine designs that can make available. That slower, more chaotic wind is usually wind turbines at least. But not so for Savonius turbines -- a type hasn't fared too well as a mass market option. However, this is where creative engineering I spoke to Chris and Cheryl Moore from Harmony interesting Savonius turbine, about that exact "Generally, wind in the rural and even wind. It's disrupted wind, and Savonius turbines Now, it's not magic. This isn't like zero point energy or, you putting in. It's not magic. It does need wind to make power. But if the majority of the United States, wind, shouldn't we try and make a wind turbine wind condition." That brings me straight into possible solutions There are multiple companies, like Harmony a cheaper, smarter approach. Before we get into that, there's also a online tracking and targeting ... and maybe sponsor, Surfshark. Surfshark is a fast, easy to use VPN full on an unlimited number of devices with one Most of the time when we talk about VPNs we're travel around the world, but it can do way Since you can make it look like your IP address it unlocks geofencing blocks on content, like But ... that's not all. Even shopping services will sometimes gate change your location to make sure you're They also have add-ons to their VPN service will let you know if your email or personal online in a data breach. Right now they're running a special deal months for free (that's right 6 months). SurfShark offers a 30-day money-back guarantee, I've been using Surfshark for years and Link is in the description below. Thanks to Surfshark and to all of you for Back to the wind turbine companies trying the market. As I mentioned before, Harmony Turbines' which was invented by Sigurd Johannes Savonius They typically consist of blades that are mounted on a vertical shaft in an 'S' shape. If you've seen an anemometer, which measures They're designed to spin, even at low wind The turbine captures wind energy through a As wind interacts with the concave and convex force causes the rotor to spin. That differential drag allows it to operate While it's known for its simplicity and typically has a lower efficiency, which is traditional propeller designs at around 50-60%. But that's disputed by Chris Moore, the "If you really dig into it and look, you're lowest crappiest out of all of them, out of one that suddenly it's like up in the 30, It's the same graph, just the arrows are reversed. Yeah, so, the bad data, because the internet making it a thousand times worse, and just Um, in working with the universities, Penn her hands down on the table, she goes, 'Yes, the past five years in my classes, that the So they were excited to work with us on this this bad data." What sets their approach apart from a typical to control the spin. "So the way we approach that problem is (or fins or whatever you want to call them) its max RPM, they'll close in towards each And the purpose of this is twofold: one, it'll of control. But the second thing that it does is it allows Even though we have strong winds, even though power. The other ones, they stop." When wind speeds exceed a turbine's rated themselves ... or they'll literally tear Harmony's approach allows it to close itself not stop. The idea is to allow the device to keep going would typically grind production to a halt. The ability to reduce the exposure area and advantages over their larger HAWT cousins. Then there's Aeromine, which I covered in I'll link to it in the description if you using airfoils to concentrate and amplify The purpose of an airfoil is to make physics Bernoulli Effect. This refers to how gasses and liquids flow Just like an airplane wing, air moves faster bottom, creating lift. Looking at their turbine from the exterior, Instead, two vertically mounted, hollow foils them. This creates a low-pressure zone, and as wind leads the captured wind to a fully enclosed The fact that Aeromine's approach is to a building's flat roof isn't by accident. Have you ever walked between tall buildings tunnel? I used to work in the center of Boston, and meteorologists trying to stand upright in the ongoing storm. That wind tunnel effect is caused by the wind and getting compressed and funneled around It amplifies the speed of the wind, and Aeromine "One of the things that's novel about What happens is the free wind hits the face It creates an amplification that goes into free wind hits the airfoils that creates a So instead of kind of fighting the environment the building structure itself to help. We're leveraging the inherent aerodynamics of a building and those amplify the wind resources." Basically, Aeromine is taking what would normally wind turbine and making it an advantage. They've also been busy since I talked about which I'll get to in just a minute. If one or more of these companies is successful wind turbines for more residential and suburban tap into. "The traditional thinking in the wind is better because the bigger the swept area, all the sense in the world. You know, that's a lot of physics, but at to some level as far as applications ... We opportunity by leveraging these large rooftops to create You're not as beholden to, you know, transmission where it's needed." "But it's virtually an untapped market of residential areas already have wind turbines, to get rid of that and get a new one. People are looking for them ... People are and so we hope that we are the ones that fill People are looking for it, they're not necessarily solutions, I shouldn't say that, the inferior You know, they're just kind of waiting because David said something very similar. "If you think about onsite generation, They're trying to maximize And so, I think that's what really resonates the world, is that this technology allows were suitable to create uh, which can really move the needle and be quite meaningful." If a homeowner or building owner crunches their energy generation and savings by layering distributed wind generation could finally This is where it gets interesting. Since I last covered Aeromine, there's been The company has had a pilot project running and a half with great results, and it's "We have a series of approximately 10 right now and are starting to roll out in So you'll see a lot more Aeromines on the six months. And then we are in the final stages of what our mass market product, late in 2024." Meanwhile, Harmony Turbines is collaborating state of Pennsylvania: It just finished a Bucknell University, and it also has additional Harmony is also making a splash across the Bucknell's study helped the Harmony team and Penn State has been doing water tank testing That's basically determining how to group In horizontal axis wind turbines, that usually wake created by the turbines impact those behind it. What's interesting is that for vertical In fact, studies are showing that grouping their production. Again, this is about turning the disadvantage Chris and Cheryl spoke to me at length about scoop design and will be starting to gather Like I said, they've got a really interesting but they're very early days. One thing I LOVE about Harmony Turbines as of development out in the open. Most companies don't do this. They have a website and a YouTube channel basis. So, if you'd like to see what it takes to develop a technology like more time than you might think, it's awesome And let me know if you'd like me to do a companies in this area). While smaller scale wind technology still a lot of interesting developments in the works. It doesn't seem like we'll have to wait is blowing. But what do you think about the future of Jump into the comments and let me know. And be sure to check out my follow up podcast your feedback. Thanks to all of my patrons, who get ad free to new Supporter + member, Dan Liese, I hope I pronounced your name right. Your support really helps us to keep delivering If you'd like to support the channel and in the description. I'll see you in the next one.