So guys, if you're a serious chess player, you game. But to increase your rating, you need to about analysis, I know many of you don't like it its boring &amp; that just kills the fun. I understand you a simple step-by-step process to quickly learn from your mistakes &amp; eventually that will you're a beginner or an intermediate level player, reach the 2000 rating level. So let's get started. you've obviously got to play some games. you can play online or over the board. But the chess does not help much especially when you minutes and above allow you the time to think, So focus on quality over quantity. Now you might be playing online on chess.com your friends or even sometimes participating in everywhere. Now it is important to get this all so that you can review them &amp; keep a track your every move online, but that can take time. So a Evo - you can save all your games on this. It's a into it. It has chess.com, lichess, chesskid, features for all you chess lovers. I'll give you a till the end. Anyway, the point is that before organise all your games. Create a library so that Step number 3 - Identify Now that you have documented all your games, So let's say you've just played a game - you won game is fresh in your head. What I want you to do the key moments in the game. Now these key moments about your move, or something where you took a lot sometimes you realise that you made a mistake these are the kinds of moments I want you to just identify 3-4 instances which you feel Maybe you can just quickly run through all ones. If possible, I would suggest you do this that's when the ideas are fresh in your mind before you forget, please do this one more do show your support &amp; hit that like Step number 4 - Engine analysis step is to go through an engine. You can go to In chess.com, you can load your game's PGN, and you a move-by-move breakdown of how you played. If computer analysis'. This evaluates all your you played. For the moment, I would suggest just ignore the inaccuracies because our main goal the benefit in terms of improvement. So based on you messed up &amp; that's where you need to learn the pinned comment, so do check it out. patterns of your mistakes key moments as per your analysis &amp; you can also The next step is to look at all these 4-5 moves future reference, I would suggest you put in your you were thinking during the game. Now after a You'll realise that there are some common you might find that you're missing out on or you might be leaving your pieces undefended, or passed pawns in the endgame. So accordingly, you making. It would be great if you could write it And if you see, I've also mentioned the stage endgame. This will further tell you if there is with. That way you will be mindful of your Step number 6 - Practice smartly - learn &amp; improve you should practice smartly in order to learn struggling in a particular opening, you can go ideas by referring to famous grandmaster middlegame tactics &amp; strategy, you can solve For endgame weaknesses, you can study the common understand the correct technique behind them. On where you can practice by phases, solve positions specific tactics &amp; mating patterns. There are thing is to keep playing serious games, take some not to repeat the same mistakes again. solution to play, analyze &amp; improve your game, Chessnut team were kind enough to send me this now, so let's get into the details. Now inside the a tablet screen on the side, we get all these we also have these 2 carry pouches &amp; a charging 3 buttons - 1 is to power on &amp; off, and the rest 2 a charging slot. Once you switch it on, you are this tablet works on Android, so you can scroll check out the system settings - its very the magical thing about the Evo is its piece that is on the board is translated on the screen Now in terms of playing games, this is an All you can play online or even against the computer. the board - just tap on 'Clock', select start playing a game. As you can see, the timing separate chess clock to time your moves. This is a in professional tournaments. Another good feature device by simply creating a Chessnut account. don't worry, just play against the computer! against Maia, Stockfish, Leela - they have all so let's go with that. Then select a variant - a custom position to start from. Then select time control &amp; start playing. Now whenever you're every move that your opponent makes on the screen an inbuilt speaker that calls out the move, this along &amp; this way you can use the advantages of Talking about online features, if you Turn on this. And if you Turn On 'Evaluate', look what all the squares where that piece can move will means that it's a terrible move, and yellow means for learning especially when you're struggling function will highlight all the possible squares the 'Hint' feature, which will suggest you a good against the computer using the 'Bot Match' option. online on lichess, chess.com, chesskid &amp; so on. the lichess website from where you can sign in to like playing games, playing tournaments, solving analyzing your games &amp; a lot more. When you start directly on the tablet. Or if you want, you can which are automatically replicated online - so you you can easily access all your saved games. So you your games anytime. Now if you like to watch to use your screen to watch your favorite videos chessboard as well. That makes it so much better if you tap on the 'Analysis' tab, it automatically onto the tablet. You can even change the position position on screen. Now this is extremely useful the engine. It's a good way to train yourself. engine. Apart from this analysis feature, you games through lichess &amp; chess.com directly from useful &amp; comprehensive analysis solution. So guys, then I'll put a link in the description! Do check all you Chess Talk viewers! Alright, so it's turn &amp; you need to find the best move for white. many of you get this right. Guys, do Subscribe