Translator: Michele Gianella Can you freaking believe it? I'm on a TEDx stage; how cool is that? (Laughter) (Applause) And can you freaking believe it, we're actually living I am in absolute awe of what we have done. If you and I were chatting and having a conversation, that there would be a car that I could summon with my smartphone travel 300 miles, have no gas, park itself and fuel itself You think I'd believe you? It's called Tesla. If you and I were chatting that in this strife-ridden world of ours, that life expectancy across the world, and 25 per cent would I believe you? No. United Nations just showed Six years increase in life expectancy Three years in the Western world. If you told me ten years ago that a lot of cities in this world were getting 15 per cent of their food that use 99 per cent less land I wouldn't believe you, but it's true. If you told me more than ten years ago, that the United States Supreme Court would guarantee the right It would be freaking crazy, And that the transgender people - I didn't know what would be fighting And the European Union was protecting Then I would say you're certifiably crazy. We can regale each other for the next couple of hours: We are truly living And as we live and breathe we are, as most humans, And I'd argue that our number one Some would say it's food: There's some who would say it's water. I'd say no, nanotechnology And this is not in the future: with millions of litres being created on a daily basis. Some would say energy, I'd say no; solar energy has reached the one per cent Solar cells have reduced the cost and it's only beginning. Some would say because there are already including microbes that can pull and create energy alongside it. It's stuck in US Congress because it's a life form. Or Georgetown University, carbon blocks that we suck Lack of meaningful work, It is who we are as a people. It's what makes you and me, Meaningful work is a beautiful thing because it is individually defined and what it means for each one of us. This is not a story about anything We define what we mean by meaningful work. For some of us, it might be so we can play and we can grow for others it might be for others it might be It is our choice, who we are. When I was telling you this story, that should have been my crowning moment: It was the saddest day of my life. It took me months to recover. My 40-year-old friend, lover, wife, It took two-and-a-half months, and more than half those nights, It was hard: I had lost meaning. And that's the major risk we have today, simply because jobs are being decimated at an accelerating pace. That's the noise you hear in the US Somebody no less &quot;Artificial Intelligence is going to rip Between artificial intelligence, some of the stuff jobs are getting decimated. And they are not coming back. So what's the solution? Before I get there, let's describe We're mammals, as we've learnt today. But we're different from other mammals because we have this notion We have the ability to dream, These mental constructs it makes us who we are. Everything of importance in our life, Be it faith. Nation states are simply lines Faith, religion - I would argue, And so the two mental constructs I wish The first one is, meaningful work has been with us It's not jobs. Jobs are simply a subset of work. The word &quot;job&quot; itself is less and did not come into our lexicon until the beginning of the Industrial Jobs create money for us. But when we lose a job, all we can do in a slightly adjacent field, or move to different vertical This country is rich creating the wealth and the city is rooted in that. But jobs do not make work, necessarily. Work is something we create for ourselves. This paradigm shift has to change, because the people in society look at the data. In the last 30 years in the United States, the working population, defined increased by 240 per cent. The number of full-time jobs Unemployment rate What's the gap? It's this whole category People went out there In the days of old, it would be the temporary secretary, Today, it's way more than that: it's the entrepreneur; it's the entertainer; it is the academic professor and course curriculum, We create work for ourselves. That's where our dreams are, that's what our identity is, Let's break that mental construct No, jobs are a subset of work. People create work. Trudeau does not create jobs: He creates an environment and we go out there and seek That's the mental construct The second mental construct is in two pieces: And part 2 of that is, forget it: From the moment we were born we were entitled to suckle Entitlement is who we are: As we have grown through society, When we were a junior species, to provide for us when Then we relied on the Government. We need to discard all forms and replace it with one: universal basic income. Which is the individual right to unconditionally get an income As a capitalist, as a business owner, I am willing to pay higher taxes for that. Without it, we will destroy Universal basic income is not about it's about meeting the Maslow's hierarchy Universal basic income Universal basic income Our greatest innovations weren't from who didn't have shelter: Our greatest innovations - whether it be the Internet, or the smartphone, began by Blackberry, in Waterloo. These weren't homeless They were people with jobs, who lived in a nice house This notion that this entitlement is absolutely untrue. And so you and me, together, Which is, let's think of work and bring us meaning. And let us demand from our leaders It's not new: Switzerland is currently The data that came out had showed that minimal income created stronger cultural affirmation It allowed less resource uses, healthier people, lower crime rates. We have to change, we have to demand because our species' wellbeing can move a lot further, Wherever our destiny takes us, where the body fuses with whether it is singularity, as I look into the future, and my prayers are that to find meaning but meaning in the Universe itself. Good luck, God bless you. (Applause)