-Hi! -Hello! Thank you for coming back -Thank you for having me. -Do you remember the last time -I do. Do you remember? -Do you remember? -We were dancing. -We were dancing to -We saw &quot;Biebs.&quot; -Yeah, we're &quot;Beliebers.&quot; And -- -We were at the Met Gala. -And Justin Bieber He was awesome. -And I saw you. -He did. -Wear a mask, everybody. -A ski mask. But we were there, &quot;Oh, my God, I have to go over -I was very excited. -Both of us! -And we were rocking out. -We were like -- I'm like, &quot;This is a memory.&quot; Because you know I go, &quot;I know and --&quot; I'm caught up. Not completely caught up, but I'm more recent -Listen, Jimmy, You have this every night. -You know, you have a family. -Yeah, I get it. No, but I wanted -- -No, no, no. -Yeah! No, that's not my point. My point was, it's so good, And everyone in the whole But you -- I go, &quot;Have you seen 'Ozark'?&quot; If they haven't seen it, I go, and then call me the next day and tell me who And they're like -- Dude, You're so good. -Thank you so much. -I know, sorry, yeah. Like, I'm really trying to play but I'm actually, -Well, there's this scene that I tried not to look at it, because I don't want But, apparently, -Yes. Which that can be, like, I mean, it's not -- But no. But this is not -No, it's not. -You really are. -You're really angry. -Can we show the video of -If you want to stop me, you're going to have to [ Cheers and applause ] -How in the -- -I was hungry. No, I'm kidding. [ Laughter ] -But you are not that person. -That's acting. -I am an actor. -I look very angry there. -You are mad! -The picture -- It shakes. -Ugh! Jason Bateman! -I go, And very interesting answer. -Yes. So, I'm very visual different things, and I really the spirit of, like, and the darkness. And, you know, intensity and chaos so well. So I -- Yes. Yeah. -I love their Caravaggio. And their gelatos, right? -But your dad is -- Yes, an artist, yeah. -So you know all about this. -This is one of the paintings that inspired you -Well, I like the chaos. And, you know, she's obviously getting, you know, defensive. I mean, she has snakes as hair. -Yeah, she's lost her head. Yes, yes. She's very -- Yes. -Yes. And then, yeah, But, this is not -- I just like the chaos of it. I kind of just wanted my mind to feel kind of claustrophobic -And so you get into the zone. -But that wasn't really doing -- but there was And then I realized Mike Tyson is also another And I really got inspired from -Yeah. -I -- -That was -- Mike Tyson -- this face could be I mean, don't you think so? -Yes, it could be a Caravaggio. -Yes, a character from So I really got inspired from, -This was the Holyfield fight. -Yeah. -You think? I want to talk about By the way, it premieres -- It's based on a true story, -Yes, it's based off And it's about this girl who and pretends to be something I don't really know -- It's kind of better to watch it. -I remember reading about her in and like, &quot;Wait, what happened? How did she do this?&quot; -She's a New York poster child, -She was. -And, again, a great accent, -That was probably the It was a different mixture So, you know, that she's German, so she's not going to have [ German accent ] So, first, like, a German accent, right? But, you know, it's very subtle. It's like, you know, have Whatever, right? [ Russian accent ] And then, some little Russian It was a very bad But then I start to do, like -- This is more of an And then it gets Americanized, kind of add the question Like, you know what I mean? Like, Europeans -Come on. What just happened? Yo, that was -- [ Cheers and applause ] That will go in the history In 10 seconds, Everyone's face Everyone's like, &quot;What?!&quot; -So, really, my -- that it was kind of one if she goes back to Europe, all of her European friends are And then all of her friends &quot;Oh, my God, -Yeah, exactly. -I know. -You do? Thank you. Did you do it for her? So, I went to go - Spoiler alert! -So, I went to visit her, &quot;So, uh -- And I said, And, you know, Like, she's Anna Delvey. And she's like, How you playing me?&quot; And I said, &quot;Uh, well...&quot; She's like, with my character, you know?&quot; And I said -- so I started mirroring her. I was like, What you doing And she was like -- &quot;That's so funny!&quot; And then I did. I was like, &quot;Ah-ha! And then the journalist was sitting there. It got really meta. -And she's fascinating. -I want to show everyone a clip. Here's Julia Garner in Take a look at this. -All men underestimate women. Even the one -Did Alan underestimate you? Is that why you humiliated him? -You're so worried about Alan. Do you seriously think he's in I'm the one locked up I'm the one denied bail. Every day, men do far worse I've allegedly done, Nothing. No consequences, and definitely no jail time. Alan will be fine, and they'll Men fail upwards all the time. [ Buzz, cell door closes ] -Oh, that's how you do it. Julia Garner, everyone! &quot;Inventing Anna&quot; premieres February 11th on Netflix.