This is jigsaw. He's a friendly little robot that's Putting together any jigsaw puzzle, Really, really fast. It's taken us three years but according to our initial tests, faster than the fastest competitive So today, we're going to walk through to get ready for the ultimate robot And along the way, you might find helpful as a mere human But before we unpack how jigsaw does I first want to give us humans because while this seems pretty straightforward of me to be able to pick up and arrange these 12 pieces of a puzzle, I'm actually The first is just picking up a piece. Have you ever stopped to think Hiding beneath which makes them flexible and strong, thanks to the high concentration for sensing pressure We've also evolved which makes it way easier to hold tools and to manipulate and pick things up than if it was just Step two is rotating the piece to the correct orientation, when you have all the abilities For step three, we need to move the piece into position, As I've mentioned before most vertebrae have the same from a human to a bat, But when you include the hand, is the most technically capable arm of any living thing If you imagine a large cube can move this puzzle piece to any position That's really hard for a robot or pretty much any other species For step four, we have to decide where and for us humans, it's hard it's hard to explain how but when we look at this, this piece should go here. What's actually happening, visual perception to our brains, a complicated combination of pattern visual memory, and executive function, The answer just feels obvious. And not to brag. But this is once again where us humans Our complex brains are Physically, we're kind of unremarkable We're not faster than cheetahs We can't swim as well as dolphins or fly It's our brains yet they consume And that ratio is higher than any other And it's the reason because it allows for the huge survival problem solving, language, and large scale It's also what has possibly, up in history, at jigsaw puzzles. So if we wanted to make a robot or better than us at puzzles, was to take the 200 million years of evolution and figure out a robot can do For number one, in lieu of an opposable thumb we used a tiny, specialized suction cup that's often used to manipulate This solenoid here can cut off which means we could turn on the suction and then turn it off exactly when we want to let it go For number two we attached the suction cup to this very fine That's precise to an incredible That means if you attached an infinitely it could slice your circular birthday cake For number three to move a piece around, we're constantly using around here by upgrading the motors These are the same motors Our autonomous Domino robot. Once we did this, we saw it could accurately place a puzzle piece That's one tenth which means, as you can see here, jigsaw can take the lead and move all around the table, and then So now that jigsaw could pick up rotate, and move any piece The only thing he lacked was step four, And as you might guess, because all the subconscious work that handle pattern recognition that makes finding the right piece is a really, really hard problem to solve using just computer logic and code To make matters worse just as we were really struggling to come up the most devastating thing that can happen My friend Shane from the YouTube released a video about, you guessed it, And what you should know about Shane the most technically capable engineer If there are like 15 categories my knowledge goes pretty deep in maybe But then I have people like Ian and others on my team Shane, however, is somehow which is why you should subscribe When I told him he told me he personally wasn't satisfied and encouraged me to keep trying. And that's when our fortunes improved, covering the work done at Zipline, using autonomous drones, their co-founder, who's responsible for And after hearing all of our challenges by the time the plane landed on the way back that ended up being the backbone Basically, instead of trying to very complicated we took a much more simple approach by completely ignoring and just looked at the edges so while painting it white makes it more impressive It would make no difference to jigsaw. So to do this edge analysis, but not those eyes. Those are just decorative I love a good pair of googly eyes. And these were our most advanced Because the googly is controlled jigsaws real eyes were just a cell phone camera. The idea was to run a serpentine pattern and take a picture of each one, and then convert the edges of every piece So if we wanted to find a match, we would just need to take that spline that had a corresponding edge spline Because matching pieces Now, even for a small, simple puzzle edge comparisons that need to be made. So the first step is just to look and disregard any edges and that typically reduced Then for the remaining candidates, and then quantify the mismatch between the two edge splines. So two pieces that were obviously not a whereas two pieces the overlap area would essentially be zero. From there, we looked at all the possible as potential matches with each other Then jigsaw would start with one of the four corner pieces which you could picture So the correct solution is the only one that finds a good fit But as you can see, And that's because sometimes it was But sometimes there were 3 because the edges are so similar, so jigsaw would always pick what seemed like the best match But at some point and there would be no more good candidates to continue solving the puzzle. And that's a dead giveaway he chose the wrong piece somewhere so he would work his way back to the closest fork and he would keep doing this over and over until he found a path with essentially zero spline And then at that point, because he took pictures he knows exactly where each of them And he can simply assemble he demonstrated back in steps So it was working on a 12 piece puzzle, Could we scale that up to a 1000 piece, Since our ultimate goal was to dominate We figured maxing out the number of pieces to the non-overwhelmable robot. So after a couple more long weeks working through all the challenges scaling up a simple prototype we landed here. It's 3 a.m. after three years. We're at this moment about What's our confidence level? I'd say 100%. Wow! The code always works And so with that jigsaw got to work starting first And that took about 1.5 hours. And after we had the pictures, and we did it was time for jigsaw to actually try And astoundingly, while running on the actual time to figure out of all 1000 pieces was less than a minute. And I love how you can actually see him working his way around the puzzle solving, and then going back to try and find a different fork the only combination So at this point, all that was left for jigsaw to do was get to work where every single one needed to go and things were looking really good. And just as we made the mistake a single piece And then a bunch more followed And upon troubleshooting, there were a few that tended to compound on each other. The more the puzzle was assembled. So, for example, between any two puzzle pieces, Or another source of error is when certain pieces were laid down. And this led us the realized one final important Because if you think about it, when we assemble a puzzle we first just approximately place and then we rely on those to form a feedback loop with the brain to make really tiny adjustments and then a double tap is the But since jigsaw doesn't have nerves that with the z height encoder on and that encoder is so accurate if you slice a human hair jigsaw could feel that tiny hair slice So now if jigsaw went to place a piece and he could feel it hadn't because it was resting too high, he would employ a wiggle routine the piece into various directions that the piece was fully set down at which point he would give it like any puzzle solver worth his salt. And so, with Jigsaw's new hardware he was ready for one more final attempt. And I should mention, by the way, hardware software perspective, build ever on my channel, the auto Bullseye dartboard So if you really want to appreciate all the juicy details, you can find a link to the full You boys ready to try this again Better work this time. What's the confidence levels at? 100%. Have you learned nothing Ian?! Hit the dang button So jigsaw got to work of all the pieces, he once again in a mere 55 seconds which meant it was time And thanks to the wiggle routine you got this jigsaw. The first 20% was knocked out Okay, I guess we could sit back down And that meant I just get to kick back and relax gazing at this polar gantry sand garden Because unlike the CrunchLabs build box, which is made for kids, we just launched It's just more advanced and created With HackPack, you get a series delivered right to your door, step by step, that go into making the builds They're all super fun and even useful, No programing required, but since my goal is to get you to always with some simple code tweaks you can level up the functionality with some hacks of your own. So if you want to enhance of unlocking the really fun just go to CrunchLabs.com, where we're giving away one free box and back over with Jigsaw Things were looking very promising of an off the shelf puzzle, completely solved with no human intervention. Some pieces would go right in Uno Wow Some required a little bit of wiggle. Oh, actually, yeah. And some required a lot of wiggle But in the end. let's go Jigsaw C'mon last piece Jigsaw always came through Yes!! Now feeling more confident in Jigsaw's abilities It was time for him to meet the greatest What? Are you done? Who, fun fact also happens to be a national sudoku champion Tammy McLeod I'm the Human Benchmark I first wanted her to face off against the best jigsaw puzzler my dear friend Kristen Bell aka Anna, or Veronica mars, Kristen ever since I told you I was making a puzzle A little bit of trash. Yeah. The puzzle robot isn't here today. So instead, I have a friend This is Tammy. She holds the Guinness World Record for the fastest puzzle Ever solved by a human being. Hi, Kristen. We kick things off And to be honest, Three, two, one. Go! Kristen started off pretty strong. Where's the elephant? Tammy, you don't talk I mean, I could trash talk, but- Do it! You're gonna lose Tammy. And then you hit me back. Wow, that was one minute I'm sweating so much and that was a pretty decisive win. But I wanted to see one more face off, only this time with a 500 piece puzzle and a huge advantage in Kristen's favor. I think I'm going to help you on this one. Okay? And with Kristen's renewed confidence, and out of the gate Tammy was so confident She's just doing flipping? Oh my god, that's crazy organized. She saw no problem in helping our cause. What is that little guy? his tail She's right SHE'S RIGHT Mark, can I ask you a sincere question? Is this the robot? Admittedly, I did have an and that was espionage. Tammy, I noticed you're using the box. What! Tammy, get real. You have to look at the picture. It'll just distract me. I look at the pictures. I have good color acuity. I have very bad shape memory. So if you say had to go against an all That would maybe be my Achilles heel. And this was a very useful But she didn't stop there. Because she also told me the four tips she tells amateur jigsaw puzzlers First off, dump out all the pieces and turn them over For number two most people start with the edge pieces, and that's not a bad move, For example, like a gold frame around the outside you should set all the edge pieces aside and then leave them till the end, more information from the interior pieces For tip three look for groupings that catch your eye So for example, you could organize But either way, you're trying because scanning and pattern matching And this way you don't have to do them And finally, if you're down to a bunch of pieces sort by shape based on and orient them This will leave you with six total piles and will make it much easier And I needed to look no further Oh no. I look away for one minute. Don't look at Tammy's, Kristen Things have gotten dire. -to understand there must be some validity I'm not seeing your hands move I'M PANICKING I'm not trying to- DONE!? 34 minutes and 2 seconds. 500 pieces. Congratulations. Congratulations. Your next puzzle And indeed, after setting things up Tammy, I'd like to officially introduce This is my upgrade from Kristen And Jigsaw was in no mood for All right, then! As Tammy entered of all humanity What's your strategy here? The only shape I can make use of Okay, how are we doing, jigsaw? not really sure what But that's when I remember I have I might need to take measurements I'm making you something. That's why you don't have any pieces Wow, Tammy you're familiar with the saying No, that's not it. And as if on cue, My teammate, wrapped up his measuring. There's a corner piece! and began cutting. did you have to make him so noisy? Three pieces! Four pieces! Tammy, ignore me... Saying five pieces! It ain't over till it's over. You're still winning, Tammy. And while I was tempted Nine pieces! I decided to take up woodworking instead. Are you nervous, Tammy? Even if I lost today, Jigsaw. If he lost today, No My love is very conditional. Having properly reminded jigsaw Jigsaw has now officially taken the lead. Jigsaw continued to make steady progress Where's that last edge? Oh, you need one edge piece faced the limits inherent in biology I really want to That way I can say you needed my help. Without the precise search capabilities... I found it, I'm done with the edge! Of a smart phone to laptop nervous system. Click. Is there any way I could get some water. Jigsaw. Do you need a water break? You notice we are missing that's on purpose I was the ideas guy Jigsaw. That's your next piece I'm a team player. The only thing is he could be a bit of a control freak So I opted to help Tammy instead. Tammy, do you need this piece? Do you need this piece? Do you need thi- And so while jigsaw continued I made myself useful by woodworking. Solitairing Finding Waldo. Tammy right here! Nah I'll look later and just generally reverting as the annoying youngest sibling. I love doing puzzles And after all that, Tammy, I have good news and bad news. The bad news? There's only eight pieces left -but not enough. The good news is I made you a scarf! In fact, if you assume it to try all the remaining working 12 hours a day, skipping weekends. It would take her one which made this a good time to throw in the towel. Unless you're about to finish I think I'm good. Oh, this is a moment! 1000 pieces in four hours. Okay, Tammy, But alas, it's time It's an honor to lose to him That was beautiful. I gotta say! Good work, jigsaw. At ease So while jigsaw took his victory lap I put the final touches on the trophy I'd carved her. You are the best And you did a great job. Just, you know, not that great if you're a teenager or adult and you've always wanted but just have it figured out that first step This is it. It's called the CrunchLabs Hack Pack and it's basically a series of really fun programable robots that get Where we build it together and learn, step that go into making the builds and they all work But since my goal is to take you and level you up, you can easily hack of any of these robots in a bunch of ways There's also a community where you could share your builds as well as an AI chat bot named Mark Robot and help you implement On top of all that, each box has a chance If you're box has it, congratulations free for you or a loved one plus you get to come out here and brainstorm one of your own ideas with me So if you want to enhance of unlocking the really fun just go to CrunchLabs.com or use the link in the video description We're giving away that free box Thanks for watching.