On behalf of our President and our chief marketing it's a real honor for Aon to be And for many of you, is now a UK-based company, that the Aon Foundation, has made it a priority to support cultural institutions like and the Charter Humanist Circle, the lives of all of us in this room And even though we're now in the UK, that we intend to continue and it will remain high on our to support the community of [applause] On behalf of my colleagues the Charter Humanist Circle for their very valuable support, Northwestern University Law the auditorium today. At Aon, we believe in the mantra we don't do it.&quot; And because of that, to be here supporting and Dr. Kotler has defined marketing of exploring, creating, and the needs of a target He is recognized around the world on business, of marketing, how exemplary marketing has to influence global In that spirit, I hope you'll join [applause] Now before I turn the in the spirit of marketing, maybe that Aon does a great many that we've done that has created for our firm is our sponsorship which by today won 2 to 1 [applause] We're at-- at the top of the So in that spirit, I would like to present Dr. Kotler Manchester United shirt. [Kolter]: Thank you. David, thank you very much. And I will wear this, [laughter] May I say, I really appreciate Of all the introductions I've received, [laughter] Nation, nation... Oh, you may know of so I can't pull it off the same way. There will be two groups, There will be a group that and I'm going to give you and the justifications. there's another group who loves you will be totally confused, So, what I want to do is These are called That's, by the way, borrowed who wrote a wonderful book called And let me move on and say for the humanities? And we would say that One: I regard marketing because marketing has has created, not only affected and we should be, from a point interested in that. And it really-- I want to say that marketing that it's beginnings are That doesn't mean there weren't and as a matter of fact, I'd like of marketing, so that you understand As a matter of fact, if you took a in the year 1900, and looked up you would not find it in the dictionary. Yes, you would find the word market, If you then picked a dictionary... marketing in it, because marketing And it's much more than selling. Let's start... [laughter] Who is the marketer This is the biblical narrative. I hear Eve... The snake. I hate to admit it, because snake and so forth. But the fact is that it was on getting Adam to eat an apple. At least selling goes way back. Here is the father of marketing. Wow, what an insult to him! I mean, that's Aristotle. Recently I was at a group, who we would like to meet most and it boiled down to Plato, That's a hard one. It turns out that my vote Aristotle was Google, at the time. than anyone in the world. economics, rhetoric, art, Now, why do I say that he had Let me read the definition of rhetoric. by the way. The founders were They were a group who wanted to use for their own devious ends. the discipline of rhetoric on its feet. Rhetoric is the art that aims to improve who attempt to inform, persuade, in specific situations. in any given case, the available So, in a sense, he could be The idea of getting someone not have done otherwise. early manifestations of marketing. read this, so I will read it, opened when, and in what country? and you ask the question, we invented the department store. The same time we invented But it turns out that the first Mitsui company, which is still So that's where one of our The next one is the first There were newspapers early, in 1652, and it advertised coffee. started a little later. N.W. Ayer, which is still a First time a brand was put on a the brand name was Pear's soap. And then the first packaging and finally we had a marketing So, now the word markets The Middle Ages had markets. I would even say the agora, that means the marketplace-- people would come on a particular In the Middle Ages, The word marketing wasn't there. And trade was always there, has taken place between people So all that is there, and it was that marketing books first appeared. who wrote those first marketing books. What was the discipline of the people Any guesses? They weren't physicists or chemists. They were economists. So why would economists start And the answer is: they were [laughter] They couldn't find any mention of economists. In other words, Thomas Malthus, David Ricardo, they rarely talked about other The only force that shaped demand You know the famous curve. lower the price, you can sell more. that affected demand. or institutional economists, said &quot;Hey, You've got to factor in retail stores, And it was the neglect of to not really texture the marketplace that led to marketing. a branch of economics. Now who helped developed Now, probably you don't There's one person you I don't know if you can see but someone recognize anyone there? Yeah. Dale Carnegie. and his book was &quot;How to because in doing this, who was the exemplar &quot;How to Win Friends But let me give you the whole picture. Ernest Dichter. Some of He was a motivational psychologist, didn't like to eat prunes, why cigars and all kinds of things. &quot;The Study of Desire.&quot; Sigmund Freud, and he brought But he had an opponent named a head shrinker--We call The expressions we would use if you were a head shrinker, and Namely, a surveyor. You surveyed-- of people were of a certain age and Julius Rosenwald was very much the Sears company, which was the development of our retail chains. Lester Wunderman deserves of direct mail and catalogs. You don't have to be in the store. by mail and phone. David Ogilvy is the exemplar then Stanley Marcus, was a fella who could walk into 100 suggestions on how to improve and make a difference in the Edward Bernays is the father of His name has sort of become a very important person. was often used in connection with his a model to motivate you to feel regardless of the standards involved. In any case, how did Marketing got its start Every company has a sales group. to be in the office of a customer, something happens. So they don't For example, three things they They didn't want to do consumer because that's taking their time Secondly, they would've liked Now a lead means a prospect. a hot lead: &quot;Oh boy, he's ready a warm lead, a cold lead, so on. for the sales people, so they don't And the third thing was brochures and ads. And the The salesperson isn't skilled at and brochures. So sales departments from time to time. to the day today, when we have with marketing-- Those three people split from sales its own department. in the audience here may be The old name was Vice President chief marketing officer because the chief officers. Chief information chief innovation officer, Some of you may be brand managers, Category managers, market managing distribution channels, pricing manager, communication direct marketers, internet So, marketing is well-established. Now, the character of a marketing on what the CEO thinks of marketing. So, the 1P CEO is a person and he says, &quot;I don't like and all I want from marketing is I just want someone to broadcast So, that person is missing made up by other CEOs, Now a 4P CEO says, And the plan has to mention What about our product? What's good Price: what should it be priced at? made accessible? Online, And finally promotion. So that's a more educated view But there's even a better view, &quot;No! I don't want to start with 4 Ps, the market is complex.&quot; Each segment deserves its own plan. that if you just have one value it really doesn't trigger anything So that CEO says, &quot;What And what position should we What should we say about ourselves, Now there's even a higher type CEO, who ran Procter &amp; Gamble, When you ask A.G. Lafley what's he says, &quot;Well, what do you mean? [laughter] Now, marketing is everything. everything starts with the customer. And I think he's making Now, moving on, there's a lot of things and I won't go into any detail, and the sad fact is that sometimes on the average of two years. and maybe the CEO is not feeling that that the cost of the CMO exceeds There's a lot to go into about hold on to their job for two years. get a better job after two years. than the chief marketing officer. because they're so good, they go But in any case, marketing-- which I've been talking about, and then I got involved in-- We started the idea of because the set of tools that we use in other areas. called place marketing. and a city says, &quot;We're not getting any attractions for them to come located here. We would like some digital We want to start a Silicon Valley.&quot; The marketing of a place. How do you Against all of the other The second-- There's an agency called William Morris, William Morris and say, &quot;look, I want on Jay Leno's show. I want to-- I want high visibility.&quot; &quot;High Visibility.&quot; How do you So, William Morris will look and maybe say, Don't be offended, but we can That's sort of the language. walk a little-- dress differently. reignite the archetype of Joan Baez. Well, we need a new Joan Baez. and form you into the kind of Now, social marketing is Today there are 2,000 social marketers eat better, exercise more, say no get off of tobacco, say no to Positive behaviors and By the way, my memory is that to want to raise a nation of nonsmokers, And it starts at the primary school level, to avoid those vices, if that was So that's social marketing. we're saturated with. but that's another thing. I mean, fundraising is an odd form, Everything else is sort of an exchange a one-way transfer. for the museum. there's something that should come and supporter of a museum, So these are offshoots. If you read the list, we all do marketing. you knew there were other applicants? and even prepare what you're Did you compete for a desirable Or a member of the opposite sex, So, in a sense, we're human animals and market ourselves, to some extent. What do we dislike about marketing? Well, there's a long list. Intrusion, interruption, exaggeration, And I really made a list that's Here are some of the criticisms. and spend more than they can afford. And we know that from the financial with maybe nothing down. creating grand differentiation Like with commodities, you know, a So they spend a lot of time trying to their salt is really better, and so on. more goods without considering of producing the goods. by the amount of production Marketers had not paid sufficient We know that because Ralph Nader the unsafety in cars, and then we got asbestos problems, Here's a serious criticism. Marketers-- these are some particular Marketers favor giving the public what it Sure, I'll sell you cigarettes. I'll sell Therefore marketing promotes that-- we get turned on to a world of ever-changing products and and some of that. Marketers rarely talk about Yeah, some beer companies say, drink too much.&quot; That's nice that they-- have binge-drinking, but they're and so on and so forth. there's another side. because it's not a simple picture. Marketing has undoubtedly in the United States. buy new things. In other words, their refrigerators, which they were ice boxes and they would and putting it in the box, and so on. were very slow to take-- It would be very expensive to but marketers persisted in saying new appliances, and I would even go so far as to say to the idea of the middle class. and building the middle class, and marketing is an essential what it is to want, as a member Marketing in the form of social a lot of things. You know, that marketing turned to was and the ill-effects of some Preserving the environment social marketers got into. Now they're into obesity as a problem, and other problems. Marketing is very important Museums, performing arts, that cultural institutions are facing, is the aging of audiences. who are in their forties to go to opera, It's called the graying of the audiences, been with us for a long time, doing segmentation, targeting, make sure that all seats are filled are very busy, as marketing institutions, they have to get donors, they have to so marketing is almost an intrinsic But let me-- This is not time to take a vote. or you don't like marketing. the feeling-- the negative feelings about The attackers. They attacked marketing. You see Ralph Nader? I don't... Who else? Well, it is Ralph Nader. Rachel Carson, by the way, than we've given to her for her book the chemical pollution, the pesticides and so on. Vance Packard, that we are hidden persuaders. you don't know this but an ad is sort of before you sit down. which never did happen, And then John Kenneth Galbraith, so much money in making enough you have in deodorants, In the public sector, you've got and there's some garbage, And so we have a good private sector, the public sector doesn't have the You've got Naomi Klein, person now for attacking branding. You're paying more than The book is called &quot;No Logo,&quot; And Michael Sandel is-- has this and worth reading. He's the fella and would ask groups about this size in each situation?&quot; &quot;What Money Can't Buy: where he points out that and you don't like the cell, You know, maybe one with a computer But he's also-- he thinks today in social classes more clearly. I would sit next to someone who was We'd all stand in the Today, the guys who are rich and he calls it the sky box-ification of They're eating filet mignon and standing in line for our hot dog. as we used to, in the older days. I like to quote Will Rogers with this the same amount of money that they-- as they do on advertising, they wouldn't By the way, that's a very profound of the internet, it's so much easier to others and also about And in a sense, if this goes far enough, anymore. It would be not possible because the word So he's sort of touching on that point. and others will advertise Now, I want to add another group, and I'd like to call them But they're not necessarily the they're CEOs. But what-- the kind you want from your So who do you see here? [audience murmuring] Yeah. You've got to know some of the first one. Ingvar Kamprad. his name, but he's that Swedish who said, &quot;I must bring down the cost taking the air out of it and just and now people can afford to have Richard Branson is phenomenal. He's one of the best self-promoters that he was in Times Square to introduce his new cell phone, and he said he was going to drop off and-- not wearing any clothes or I don't know why they would want to in Times Square, and sure, he did and he's carrying a huge version And so everyone--not just in were covering it. All of New York a new Virgin cell phone. But right now, he told me something and he gave a speech, and we &quot;Where are you from?&quot; I said Chicago, a time when you can go from What is it-- Is this a time He says, &quot;No, it's just a rocket ship.&quot; Dubai, it just goes right up in the So he's working with some people And you want to watch him. Great, great visionary. Herb Kelleher. Thanks to him, which started a whole class And then we've got Anita Roddick, &quot;I'm not selling hope, I'm selling good That was a famous remark by Revlon, in the store we sell hope.&quot; Then you've got Bill Gates, And Jeff-- Let's see, we've gotta [laughter] If there's anyone who has wanting to facilitate the consumer or anything like that. And then to buy to buy clothes. He's done a marvelous We're running out of time and I'm going but let me just refer to This is a chart I use in basically to say that every company for the future, and its values-- and if you're a 1.0 marketer, I mean, of course you're trying and make a good product. Be better. help people realize their aspirations. they might aspire to have. and your product is different than the And suddenly, you move What's spirit? It's that small &quot;We're compassionate. We have We want to get involved. We want for improving the lives of people.&quot; to just some charity work they're doing. strain in the way they do their business. really have felt that they want into being a better world. Here's one of my favorite companies The SC Johnson company in whose products are shown over here. of their waxes or some of their but they're just winning awards Incidentally, a book that you &quot;Firms of Endearment,&quot; companies we love. And I love the subtitle, Profit from Passion and Purpose.&quot; random meeting of people--is there That you like a lot? Name a company that you would [audience murmurs] I thought you were going to say another one. Amazon. I really would. I would even [laughter] Costco. Of course. Nike. Okay, well you see these are the names of the companies I don't think there's any surprises there. Because it would be a different mix But the main thing is, these firms of more profitable than the ones One of the things is that they-- as profitable, but let's see why, everything here, look at the last of that set of companies. they spend less on marketing I bet you thought that the companies are the ones who are just They're so familiar. all the time. All the time. so who's doing the advertising? So that's where you should Create a love affair. Now I'm going to end with two slides. &quot;The End of Work&quot; It's now about 9 or 10 years old. in population growth, automation 3D printing, can the nation create enough jobs for the And it raises a question about Marketing's role normally is seen The basic role of marketing It is the job creator. Namely, it that someone has to produce. Does marketing really create create shifts in the shares? to brand Y, that's not creating-- gets a job. So, but it is true marketing will help accelerate and intensify the drive to purchase it. and other things that come along they are desired objects, the rate at which growth takes place The other book, and I'll end &quot;The Death of Demand&quot; And what is the relationship between And is-- he uses a term saturated-- global economy. I've been wrestling with that problem, Growth is the issue. And the fact is, there are So the title of the book is 8 Ways to Win.&quot; You know that we can go to We can sell in China, Or Brazil. We know we can grow We know we can grow by innovating. We know we can grow by taking and so on and so forth. we're wrestling with is how And by coincidence, another the Kelogg School of Management, &quot;Defending Your Business,&quot; and it's with mine, because the first job Hold on to the customers you have, some more growth. of the department, are wrestling with and say they're wrong, and that [laughter] and take any questions you might have. [applause] Thank you. [Moderator]: Okay, we have time for Is there anyone on this side of to ask a question? [Kotler]: Yes. I see-- Now a microphone will [Moderator]: Susan will [Kotler]: And if there's any other Would you introduce yourself, please? [Audience member]: My name is coming to the Humanities Festival appreciate your talk today. [Audience member]: My-- What really drives me nuts, is the placement of products It used to be that in a movie It seemed to be accidental. Even the anchormen have [Kotler]: You know, that's the field and we first got conscious of it where each time there was a different something else, because it was a the most for the next film to does the person speaking pick up And things like that. Most of us don't but it has been discovered as a way to Product placement. [Audience member]: I'm Cody Hagle. Again, thank you. On the evening of the ads are for pharmaceuticals. about each one! [Audience member]: And I believe requirements some years ago. because clearly that advertising costs, etcetera, etcetera. It's called over-the-counter But maybe it's also prescription. for it by saying consumers should know the right thing for them, otherwise what's right is the doctor. And the The doctors in some cases by the patient saying what he But, you know, this has happened Doctors are advertising themselves, The expert is Prabha Sinha, and he's always working with the and could help answer that. Any other things that bother [Audience member]: Hi, my name Thank you, Professor Kotler. It is You've been a big influence to so for so many years. My question-- How many of you have read Thank you-- I owe thanks to you! [laughter] [Audience member]: My question and you started off your presentation was defined at the beginning of the As you look at social media, do you see this thing a short-term phenomena for the next century. That's part 1. to apply an ROI to social media? [Kotler]: Yeah. Those are I-- This is not a fad. We are in the and there's no turning back. I see the following happening. &quot;We're gonna go digital too, on our tradition,&quot; which is newspapers-- radio, TV, billboards, and magazines. So, at best, they will say this, over to digital,&quot; which means and so on. And let's see what happens. [laughter] and hope they come back saying, Look at how many mentions!&quot; Now, that goes to your second question. of using Facebook or Progress is being made. measured advertising right either! was-- first of all, the basic notion you know that half the people will never I know that half of the money I it's just that I don't know which half! Basically, we judge things by exposed--cost per when we make an advertising budget, in the bathroom or the kitchen So... and increasingly, people on their computer screens than they And I think the advertising industry putting too many ads now. on some programs, with the They're all 30-second things. So, now about measuring. you'll see a lot of statements measurement going on. Don't take your ad budget and take which one firm did, and it Because until you know what you want is 10% of your budget some proof, you put in into that particular use [Moderator]: Okay, we've got time I know a lot of our attendees are so we have one right here [Audience member]: Mark Ruen direct marketing my entire career, follow up a question about because I've lived by my metrics. I've always guided my marketing 4 Ps or 5 Ps, depending on and in terms of the P of the certainly flattened the world, have changed. But how do you [Kotler]: Okay. First of all, let me say, Direct marketing people are much They could actually experiment direct messages and seeing-- and knowing what it costs to do the and it's just a pure P and L which we couldn't do with just Now, are you asking where the Like, what's happening to product See, there will be new I've been asked this question when which is really the case that socially responsible as well. &quot;When are you gonna And I don't really have you go from the mind to I don't know how much but I am thinking that 4.0's in the future that are building where we get involved with everything is being supplied Think of iTunes, think of the of cre-- think of Harley Davidson. I'm a member of-- they call them Harley owner... owner groupie. and not only that. and just go and meet people Others have beads, but they're fake. [laughter] They're wearing leather jackets. They may be chief financial officers, so they supply a whole system to fit into sort of begin to think about that. who's making shoes now? Zappos? They're creating beyond the shoes that you buy. So some companies, as one by the way, it's not different in where a company that supplies-- They have to create a whole system You know, once you get involved-- you're not gonna leave for So this is maybe what In other words, it won't be system-centered. A whole system. Thank you very much. Subtitles by the Amara.org community