I'm Jake O'Neal, creator of Animagraffs. And this This video is made possible by to my request for full control over the To start, let's look at what normally happens Your device, and every connected device on your local network. It's a special number When you ask for content on your device, as a little packet of data with identifying what content they're asking for, and more. under its own address, but remembers which device packet along to your modem, which is your goes from the modem to your ISP or Internet Your ISP updates the packet on their network. This address is visible to a general area of internet service where The content you're looking for is a file or files This server has an IP address too, and it's and route your requested content back to you. can have thousands of servers all over the to all of them at once. Dynamic Name Servers take to tons of possible server IP addresses, to find Your ISP sees and records this whole process, IPs they assigned to you, and So what can't your ISP normally see? and if that server is using https (as indicated packets exchanged between you and that scrambled so no one in between can read keys and can decrypt or unscramble this Enter the VPN, or Virtual Private Network their software on your device. Let's There are infinite ways to configure and use a asked your VPN to handle all your data. it leaves your device. It's already scrambled when this scrambled data from your home to its servers, network. From here on out, the VPN handles the But with some crucial differences. IP address they assigned to you. It's hidden from that website or app just sees some random Your VPN doesn't keep logs on what sites you path from your device to your destination is Useful scenarios really useful for you. All your data is encrypted Wifi connection points can be unsafe, for A honey pot attack is when someone sets up a secretly intercept all data going through it. might keep some of your data safe even so, but someone could get about you this way. Your internet service provider can see and might know it's a VPN server. Your ISP can much overall data flows through that connection. ISPs have a terrible track record for privacy. info on packets, called metadata, can be to send DMCA notices about transferring data from have been known to throttle connection may sell your metadata and any other data A VPN can help prevent these unwanted intrusions. Bypassing blocks firewalls to block or censor content, not just files from your device to somewhere else. VPN Some content is location restricted, meaning a specific geographic location. Large VPN and let you choose where you'd like to appear to Limitations might not be able to do for you. First and foremost, if a VPN is keeping logs of forcefully obtained. A shoddy VPN service isn't you trust more to handle your info. In some countries, even using a VPN at lengths to block entire ranges of VPN lots of available servers that are updated Some VPNs offer obfuscated servers that further data is less likely to be identified as VPN Privacy vs. anonymity good at privacy but may not give you anonymity. they might not know where you Even if you're not logged in, a site might do is accessing unique details about your device device type, etc., and use those unique Deep packet inspection to deep packet inspection, where automated Even with encryption, there's speculation that seems to look like -- this is comparable OpSec To combat these limitations, you might adopt new separate. Some VPNs allow &quot;split tunneling&quot;, which VPN and what does not. On the whole, if a few bucks a month lets more confidently use the free wifi at that seedy valuable data away to unscrupulous ISPs and On the other hand, if you're going the sterilization to combat a hostile nation-state,