This video was made possible by CuriosityStream. Subscribe to their Nebula bundle deal at CuriosityStream.com/Wendover It's really just four lanes, a median, and The Interstate Highway system is no engineering innovative concept. It's a simple idea--one that arose since It's not exciting, which is why it often Take the Interstates away, though, and you You have one with dramatically starker regional specifically, you have a nation absent of development and transformation. These words, like the system itself, still you are an American, regardless of whether be noticeably different in a reality without It's a single collection of roadways, with every American's life. It all started here, 102 years ago. 79 vehicles departed from the White House's They snaked through the District's streets for lunch in Rockville at 12:30 PM. The coupling on one of their kitchen trailers in all, it was an uneventful 7 hour, 46 mile, Grounds. 12 and a half hours later, they woke up, left, This cycle repeated itself. Day after day, they cut 40 or 50 or 60 miles The convoy climbed through the heights of the mud of Ohio, before crossing the Mississippi From there, they entered an area defined by Few dared venture west in a motor vehicle and speed of passenger trains. This convoy, though, was making the journey this feat was--to what extent such a journey The answer came quickly. Despite routing themselves on the most developed Highway, they constantly had to divert around bridges to get their trucks through, and fight car to pass. Gas stations were few and far between, so planning. Each time they entered a city, though, they and dignitaries, but those crowds thinned west. Most, but certainly not all, of their vehicles same can be said for their trip across some in Utah. With time, though, the trend reversed, roads as the convoy entered California--its final After a final evening in Oakland, California, the bay, and made a ceremonious arrival in and a formal dinner. That was September 6, 1919--62 days after Having concentrated nearly all their waking average travel speed of just 5.65 miles or pace on a road branded as a highway, in a refrigerators, airplanes, and long-distance The convoy accomplished its mission of appraising military purposes, but the report back to One Lieutenant Colonel, tasked with observing through the middle western part of the United improved, and then only a light truck should It was clear that, for now, until roads were would remain the domain of publicity stunts But then the years started passing. Administration after administration, observing the lives of increasingly everyday Americans, something that could be left the responsibility While individual states did make plenty of roads, their interests were insular. Iowa, for example, would have no interest of connecting Illinois to Nebraska. As Americans went off to fight in Europe during of Germany's national Reichsautobahn highway were forced to navigate a patchwork of state beyond their local areas. In the 1950s, when America was a mere decade took significant planning and the better part coast to the other. While this might have been inconvenient for there were regions that simply could not compete due to high transport costs and times. It was clear something had to change, but the federal level were constantly stalled But then came someone new. One of the members of 1919 transcontinental who provided the earlier report on the journey career, and rose through the ranks until he theatre in World War Two. Then, upon return to the US, he entered a as president on January 20, 1953. This was, of course, Dwight D Eisenhower. With the groundwork laid by decades of planning centered on finally finding the political a 1955 publication by the Bureau of Public After nearly three years of political maneuvering, On June 29th, the Federal-Aid Highway Act to constructing 41,000 miles or 66,000 kilometers Unlike previous attempts at similar programs, the costs of these Interstate highways, with funded by a hike in the federal gas tax. Just three months after the bill's signing, 70 in Kansas, and two months after that, the the first miles of a system that would engulf Now, whether it's I-40 in Tennessee or I-90 was highly, highly standardized. That was, after all, the point. These standards are codified in a simple eight Standards--Interstate System." To start with, fundamentally, Interstates manner in which vehicles enter or exit the off ramps. That's why, unlike with many state highways, on Interstates, except when rules are violated. The standards also set out a minimum speed--50 and mountainous areas, 70 miles or 110 kilometers to 7%, corresponding to 370 feet of elevation depending on speed and topography. There must be at least two lanes in each direction with a cross slope--essentially, an angle and ideally 2% grade. Tunnels and bridges must have at least 16 less is allowed through urban areas as long is available. Aside from a few smaller details, that's standards. It's incredibly simple. Implementing this nationwide, however, was When the project started, in the 50's, one to construct, or $5.3 million per kilometer, rose and the simplest sections stood completed, or $21 million per kilometer. Unsurprisingly, the Interstate system quickly but people and governments were convinced--the was reaching completion by the time the 80s To complete the original vision, just one stretch through Glenwood Canyon, Colorado. With thousand foot walls flanking on each River for a roadway, but a complex collection a cost of $960 million, inflation adjusted, million per kilometer of roadway. Once this engineering marvel was completed and more than two decades after his death, His 62-day transcontinental expedition from In such a decentralized country, consisting governments, laws, cultures, and more, the system is, in and of itself, unique. It is one of the most regular interactions and southern regions, might have with a federal Today, the largest urban center located further highway is Fresno, California, with a population In fact, only 14 cities with over 100,000 Even Alaska, Hawaii, and Puerto Rico are now that their Interstates don't actually extend With wide lanes, smooth turns, consistent safe. While nationwide the US averages 1.3 deaths for the same 100 million vehicle miles, observe Incredibly, that means that, assuming the roads, this system is responsible for saving Beyond the moral component--the innate human of Transportation, on a statistical basis, when evaluating potential safety standards, system by itself has a theoretical economic easily justifying its cost alone. But then there's the more direct impacts. Among the more populated states, construction states such as Georgia, South Carolina, or capita. Then, in less populous states, the Interstate west, with states such as Utah, Montana, Nevada, Therefore, it was the South and West that In essence, what these roadways did was connect so the periphery had the most to gain by, to centers by a factor of 30%, on average. In the case of Interstate 5, for example, the border to Mexico to that with Canada, majority of its distance, actually sees the That's not to say that benefit is small--the to a 6% loss in overall income in the state--but in the nation, would lose 15% of its income It's worth fully considering just how staggering roadway, stretching some 300 miles or 500 15% of its income. This does, however, make sense. Oregon's economy--significantly undergirded agriculture sectors--is highly trade dependent. The state does not, however, have any major Oregon, for example, needs to transport finished likely hire a truck to take the 9-hour journey The shortest non-Interstate route, however, potentially burdensome weight restrictions, constraints. It just makes getting product out harder. Now, ultimately, transport cost is rarely cost--a five-cent increase on a $10 product that's not the context that matters in the If the options are between a state that has transportation in and out, and all other factors to locate is the more poorly connected place? The economy is a competition, and in competition, don't in a non-competitive context. Considering the alternate was the status quo--individual from any national program--this program caught infrastructure projects, many of which were Therefore, Interstates made these states more to the rest of the world. That's not to say the program was perfect, Just as much as it proved revolutionary to Neighborhoods, predominantly poorer ones, Interstates and their associated infrastructure. This often created clear, physical barriers which reduced opportunity in these excluded They also had the effect of encouraging reduced impact of cities, creates scenarios where and additional potential negative impacts. Altogether, the way in which Interstates interact But when examined in aggregate, the Interstate the United States ever made. While by no means unique to the United States in the country meant such a system had a uniquely For every dollar spent on the program, it In the context of nations, connectivity is Therefore, the reason why the Interstate highway program in American history is simply because, I definitely enjoy nerding out about the Interstates, whole other video about the strangest, quirkiest 180 exists--just connecting to a town of per hour--or the town that essentially exists Interstate. You can watch that video on Nebula, the streaming educational creators. There's no algorithm--meaning we can upload is--and no ads or sponsorships--meaning Plus, we regularly release exclusive companion and more. What makes Nebula even better is the best bundle deal. You sign up through them, and then you also enormous catalogue of top-quality nonfiction Arctic, about Canada's annual endeavor to provide a seasonal road connection for many Nebula and CuriosityStream are both fantastic using, and they come at an incredible price: CuriosityStream.com/Wendover, or by clicking That's all our regular videos early and Nebula originals, and an enormous number of annual price similar to what you probably signing up helps support this channel, so