You're able to drive a car in the Netherlands smoke whatever you want, because that's when Amsterdam is well known for its of course, the Red-Light district. But how do young people here spend Meet Cosmo, a 19-year-old student born Today, he'll be showing us what his Goedemorgen, en welkom in Or, good morning and welcome to my apartment because the stairs are very, very steep. So welcome to our house in My mother actually lives up these stairs. So this is my flatmate. His name is Baby. I have a very small kitchen, Very, very small. But I'm happy that at least I wash my face in the morning. Usually, I just I would just slather this in a lot of butter. I wake up maybe 15 minutes because I have to to really get the nutrients in. &quot;Hagelslag&quot;. In 2023, Amsterdam was one of the most I've never moved. This is where I've always lived. or 30 still live with their parents just because The average monthly rent for a furnished For me, it's... I would never But now, it's time for class. Luckily for Cosmo, his university When I finished high school, I was 17, and love being busy. And I love doing stuff, Cosmo is now in his second He hopes to work in media one day. If I would look at myself in ten years from with my partner. And I'd probably be So, these are one of the canals in Amsterdam. A no fences. So, one time, my mother actually slid over. And it was winter. And then a rescue team of the reasons why every kid in the Netherlands young. Because things like this do happen. You have to use a lot of force because the After class, it's time for a short When I got pregnant, people told me, can't raise a kid in the middle of I'm going to stay here. First of all, I time he is 14 or 15, he will hate me if Cosmo and his mother share a born in Indonesia and also played There are a lot of people who are Indies &quot;Nederlands, Indie&quot;, which is former for example, who was born in Jakarta, That's why you will find a lot of Indonesian a lot of Indonesian shops, you know, so In the afternoon, Cosmo travels across who are also the founders of a queer newspaper. It started off as a school project, really. But, we really felt the necessity of a LGBT+ there's nothing similar that represents On the fourth page is Cosmo's story. He wrote I was doing research on the hookup culture, with which is a very big thing. I mean, hookup culture see how... what effects that has on young people In 2001, the Netherlands was the first before Cosmo and many of And we always want to improve, you know, but it we are really spoiled in that way. But, you And, as long as there is space, we will push it. So, my main mode of transportation in love walking around. I know most Dutch people but whenever I can, I try to walk if I take public transport because Dutch teens can drive when they're 18, but in There are a lot of people in Amsterdam that because it's just a city that's very impossible it's not really made for cars. It's made for boats can be a little bit dramatic if you want to get So, Prost. Prost! Prost! And always look each other in the eyes. Otherwise, you have seven years of bad sex. I think 18 is definitely a big age in become an adult, you're able to drive car in the smoke whatever you want. Because that's when Often associated with adult life in This is actually the oldest neighborhood know it for the window prostitution or across from me right now, there's also a and we can't film that. But it is something and it's something that you respect. It's just and you all should be respectful to The Netherlands has consistently been ranked coming in fifth place in 2023. So how does a young My least favorite thing about living in Amsterdam because the people can be a little bit I think my favorite thing about living of freedom that you get here, and also the the people are versatile, everything here is very Amsterdam is definitely my home. I feel very at to leave Amsterdam, I'd also leave the Netherlands It was so much fun having you guys over. Thank you so much for watching Dankjewel voor het kijken en goedenavond!