- Pebble raised over $43 smashing multiple records into the smartwatch revolution. But then they vanished. So what... or who killed them? Sponsored by Vessi. (upbeat music) Hey everyone, how are you all doing? If you're new here, welcome. My name is Krazy Ken and back when it was new. I actually held out for the Apple Watch. But despite what watch you use, we all owe a great deal because without their innovations, products like the Apple Watch or maybe even a couple years behind. So let's take a look at Pebble's history and then we'll explore the hardware and the software. And then we'll see how went from hero to zero in There's been several throughout history, like developed by Steve Mann in 1998. But the first big commercial success would be Pebble in 2013. And it all started with Eric was a student at the and he shared a watch concept that could display One of his earliest inspirations from his uncle in 2007. He asked Eric to hack a bedside clock so it could project BlackBerry In 2008, Eric built a watch prototype using cell phone parts and an Arduino. And with some other students, Eric formed a new company named Allerta. Next year, they announced the Impulse smartwatch Oh yeah, BlackBerry, back I mean, we can't really make fun of them, they had a good run. And the goal was simple, from your BlackBerry, via Bluetooth. - That baby will do everything - It doesn't tell time? - But Eric is an ambitious man, right? He had bigger fish to fry. He wanted to make a that was compatible with iPhone because that was the number Eric worked with designer Andrew Witte to make this all new watch. But like most things in life, you need money to make it happen. Eric pitched his new smartwatch to startup accelerator Y Combinator. And these guys mean business. You've likely used a Eric raised $375,000 through So he sought out help from Kickstarter. Little did he know, he On April 11th, 2012, Allerta, launched their campaign for with a $100,000 goal. Okay, but I just gotta warn you, that's a big chunk of change. It may take you a while to hit it. Oh, okay, you raised All right. The Kickstarter campaign ended on May 18th and raised almost $10.3 from 68,929 backers. Whoa. Pledge to my Patreon- In the end, Pebble became Kickstarter campaigns in history. The Pebble started shipping to backers on January 23rd, 2013. And it had special printed on the back. And the regular edition in July for $149. Huh, January, July, that's a big time gap. So some things probably happened. Mass manufacturing and especially for a beginning startup. And it looks like some Kickstarter backers were getting impatient. And it turns out, despite the backer shipping some backers did not get I'd be upset too. Heck, I backed Animusic 3 when it launched on Kickstarter in 2012 and I still haven't received it. So here we are at the and it's got some juicy Heck, you guys must I received a lot of replies saying how much they liked their products and some of them still Heck, my friend Brad was and he hiked with Pebble He's a Garmin user today, but he loved the Pebble back And I tapped into his brain a little bit to learn more about these things. Because again, I'm a I never owned one before. So let's take a look at the and see what's up. (upbeat music) The Pebble featured a anti-glare plastic enclosure with swappable rubber watch bands. It came in three colors, Arctic White, Jet Black, and Cherry Red. The fourth color, Orange, Pebble is water resistant allowing for 50 meters of depth. So you can swim, dive, or And no, before you ask, I'm not gonna shower with it on camera. Not again, but I'll gladly swim with it. You know, okay, I thought it over. If y'all behave, I'll shower with it and test it out at the end of the episode. If you're good, do we have a deal? Now, originally the first Pebble actually wasn't supposed Eric and the team added because, you know, they have They thought they would And they listened to their community. There were a lot of suggestions please make it water resistant. So they listened. The display was 1.26 inches big and it used an ultra low power e-paper LCD manufactured by Sharp. It featured 144 by 168 resolution and one bit black and white graphics. The display used a transflective layer. So your environment's light which helped save power. But when necessary, there And this helped achieve Pebble's legendary seven-day battery life. I've talked to several owners and it seems like the battery And to charge the battery, you connect Pebble to a special USB cable with a magnetic attachment. Now let's take a closer Pebble used an ARM Cortex M3 and four megabytes of flash storage. Pebble also had a a three axis accelerometer, a magnetometer and ambient light sensor. So you have all of these juicy gizmos and gadgets strapped onto your wrist. What do you do with them? That's where the software comes in. Pebble collaborated with Apple to make a special version of macOS that was compatible with smartwatches. No, not really. Just making sure you're Pebble ran its own which was built on a FreeRTOS is a common used in microcontrollers So it works perfectly for a tiny watch. Pebble OS lets users view on their wrist via Bluetooth. That was the big feature. But it also allows custom watch faces, which can be installed via the Pebble app. I love using the Sonic one Oh, and we can't forget about And the Pebble could run apps. It had a built-in cycling application. It had a built-in range finder. And we take that stuff But back when this was new, the concept of applications on your wrist, the whole concept of a smartwatch was kind of just a vague - Like an iPhone that's... a square. - But what about third-party apps? Well, there was no app store yet, but you could still and watch faces from other sources. And Pebble provided developers with an SDK so they can make those cool things. On April 12th, 2013, three months after the Pebble Pebble launched the SDK to developers so they can make watch faces and apps. But there were some limitations. For example, third-party apps could not communicate with your phone. But on a May 16th update, and support for two-way communication between Pebbles and with the AppMessage framework. While developers were working and third-party apps, the Pebble team was working On February 3rd, 2014, with APIs for Bluetooth messaging, background workers, accelerometer access, compass access, and JavaScript. And then one day later, boom, app store. Pebble launched a dedicated with over 1,000 applications Multiple partners like ESPN, joined forces with Pebble to get their apps on users' wrists. Okay, this is looking good. You have the SDK, you have the community, you have the partners, you Bam, now we're cooking. And if that wasn't enough, Pebble launched a new Pebble Steel. So if you wanted the Pebble experience with a more premium look It was available in black matte and brushed stainless steel for $249. And it featured a Corning By the end of 2014, Pebble And according to May 2014 data, they garnered 35% of the market share. But now it's at 0%, But how could that happen? How could that possibly happen? Well, hold on there, Eager McBeaver. I appreciate your curiosity. But there's a couple important topics we need to cover first. When you have a banger what's the next natural You make a sequel, right? Boom, say hello to Pebble Time, And it has a color display. Fueled by the original Eric returned to where it On February 24th, 2015, Pebble with a half a million dollar goal, which it reached in 17 minutes. Holy dollar bucks, Batman! These guys are redefining what it means to run a Kickstarter campaign. They're turning it into a community and marketing super tool, not Pebble Time's campaign smashing Kickstarter records. It raised nearly $20.4 Winning the title of most for seven years straight, until Brandon Sanderson passed it in 2022. Wow, I'm constantly blown away by how strong the Pebble community is. I mean, to band together that many of you and raise that much money that quickly, holy f- French toast. But this is where things start because another big company was about to launch Rewinding to September 9th, 2014, Apple unveiled the for the first time to much excitement. And then they forced a U2 album onto every customer's iTunes library and that pissed people off. Fine, be mad, I love U2 So I got no problems with that. Apple Watch was scheduled to and I actually ordered one right away. I didn't want them to sell out before I can get my hands on one. Now this Apple Watch launch date was one month after the so the clock was ticking. On May 27th, one month after Pebble Time released to backers and it sold publicly at US starting on July 20th, Pebble Time was slightly thinner and smaller than the original. And the case was curved so it could fit your The biggest difference now capable of 64 colors. And it featured Corning Gorilla Glass. And time included a microphone Pebble OS also received a big update with the new timeline feature, which lets users view alarms, calendar events, In a December 15th software update, Pebble Time also featured Pebble Health for built-in activity tracking. So originally, Pebble didn't have any fitness tracking built in, but you could use that was a big one. But now with Pebble Health, all that stuff was built into the watch. And boom, 1,211 steps. Oh wait, that's the time. - [Jogger] You're such an idiot. - Well, yeah, well, you're a biped! And with all those features put together, plus some other ones I didn't Pebble Time still achieved that legendary seven-day battery And to charge the battery, instead of attaching you now attach magnetically to the back. And if you craved that sexy Pebble Time Steel launched But we're not finished yet. Meet Pebble Time Round. It's round. Time Round had the same features as Time, but with a two-day battery but smaller design means smaller battery. Fair trade-off. Time Round used a round display, shocker, and a super small, thin, and achieving more of that Round was released to for $249. So now Pebble had multiple and multiple bands and but I'm a little concerned a bit too thin here. They're getting a little bit broad. And I don't know if that's when the competition is heating up. Apple Watch is selling. Android Wear is on the rise. The Moto 360 came out actually and that had a round display. So things might start 2016 started rough. The market was getting crowded, and Pebble sales were dipping, and investment cash was tight. Unfortunately, because of all this, Eric cut 25% of Pebble's workforce, but he wasn't giving up yet. It was time for Pebble 2, a souped-up version of aka Pebble Classic. It now featured a microphone, built-in sleep and activity tracking, and a heart rate monitor, but still a black and white display, which I still don't fully understand because the original There's clearly some trade-off but I digress. And Pebble Time 2, an upgraded Pebble Time with a larger 1.5-inch color display with a 228 by 200 resolution And then there was this. That's... different. Okay, so this is called Pebble Core. All right. Core was designed for runners, so you can track activity with a 3G cellular network, and it was compatible with And it was scheduled for a Again, Eric turned to Kickstarter, and he set a $1 million goal and he completely smashed that goal. Even in the face of adversity the community still because this new campaign from about 66,000 people. And on September 30th, a month Pebble 2 started shipping to backers. So logically, what's next? Time 2 and Core, right? I mean, you announced them, so you're going to ship them, right? Right? Unfortunately, no. Pebble Time 2 and Pebble They never sold. They never even shipped to So what the heck happened? Sadly, Pebble was winding down. There were reports that Pebble by Fitbit. Okay, I mean, that could be good, right? Fitbit makes wearables, so According to the information, Fitbit was in the process for $34 to $40 million. At this time, Pebble's debt This isn't the first time In the past, Intel and about a buyout, but Pebble declined. However, right now, they On December 7th, 2016, Pebble announcing they were The update says Fitbit would and that Pebble, as a Pebble ceased all hardware operations, but active Pebble models in the wild would still continue to work. And that was mostly true. We'll get back to that in a sec. The update also says Kickstarter will refund eligible Unfortunately, it appears many backers didn't receive refunds, at least judging from these There's also backers saying they still haven't And these comments are from way after the refund date in 2017. Yeah, it seems like Pebble really bit off more than they could chew But at least they were able to sell for enough money to get out of debt. So with the company shutting down, what happens with the Pebble hardware? Pebbles still function normally because Fitbit maintained the app store and other online services, at But once again, the day is saved thanks to community-driven tech projects. Say hello to the Rebble Alliance. Rebble maintains web services and this includes the app store, which is good because now I can install this handy focus app so I can concentrate. Dog! All you need is the official Pebble app and a special connection that allows the app to talk to Rebble. Unfortunately, the official or in the Google Play Store anymore. So you have to install it a different way, but the Rebble website has detailed guides on how to do everything. I decided to install it on Android because all you have to do and Bob's your uncle. On iOS, you have to sideload So yeah, we're just doing it on Android. And fun fact, this is that I did an episode We're actually using it for Hooray! Once I downloaded the APK file I could add watch faces You know, I find it kind a company worth $2.1 billion in 2021, was not willing or able to for customers. But people on the internet forming a practically free Really makes you think. So whatever happened with Eric? I liked the guy. Well, worry not. He went on to co-found Beeper in 2020, which is a chat app that across multiple platforms and And Eric is now a partner And guess which one it is? You're right. It's YC. Life is a circle. So now, the big question. Why did Pebble fail? Well, if you ask me, at least not completely. Let's call it a successful failure. They were still bought for And if you're worth that much, you obviously did something right. So I think the better or who, killed Pebble? And there's two sources that And I'll start with my personal opinion. What, I'm allowed to have those, right? Nothing personal, Pebble, but Apple Watch mopped the floor with you. They sold 10 million units And Pebble sold only about 2 which, don't get me wrong, is still a massive accomplishment. But for the broad market 2 million is not enough. And I can't speak for everyone, but for me, the Apple because of its appearance, its feng shui, the haptic feedback, the display quality. Pebble never used more And the backlight kinda washed But the Apple Watch displays always looked more But at Pebble's inception, that other stuff didn't really matter. But with Pebble's success, the industry listened And then Pebble ended up drowning in their own category that they created. Now, how about some answers And I think the source is pretty good because it's freaking Eric himself. He actually says Pebble did fail. Oh, come on, Eric, don't He wrote about the on a medium.com article. And I read every single word. I'll link the whole thing But here's the rundown. There's three big reasons Pebble failed. One, Pebble time sales fell short. The company projected $100 Now they were stuck Reason two, operating In 2015, Eric and the Pebble They hired more employees, They tried cramming more cool but that increased the operating expenses, and with lower sales, what happens? Your profits go into the red. And the third reason, the big factor that caused the other Pebble lost focus of their vision. Eric admits he never for the company. The original Pebble was a and with sales, but the in that success, they weren't truly aware of what their actual The geeky, techie, hacker type When Apple Watch came to a broader market, but it The Pebble team didn't really market the Pebble Time products and outside of the Kickstarter campaign. So awareness of the product wasn't as high as it should have been So there's multiple what's but if you wanna boil it all who killed Pebble? It was Eric. And I don't mean that personally. I have nothing but the He seems really humble in the pitch videos and he did a great job at and those guys are still around. There's still people that I still see some people use them today. And he's a brave SOB. Running a startup is one to do in the world. And I truly appreciate Eric's transparency and accountability that's He doesn't play the blame game. He took responsibility for what happened. And I believe Eric's core resonate throughout the Pebble community. That's how it's able to and still be active. And that kind of energy, that camaraderie combined with projects like Rebble will keep Pebble around And this will also serve as a great lesson for future startups. Also earlier in this episode, you saw me wearing That's the same brand of shoe that I wore in that iPhone 12 Pro a couple of years ago. I love how these shoes look. The white and teal of the Bondi Blue iMac, but there's many shoe types And they're waterproof, so you stay dry. And they have a super light feel. They weigh almost nothing. And they're machine And I'll tell you a secret. I hate tying laces. But with these Vessis, and then treat them like a slip on. Or, you know, you can just Vessis are just all around great. So if you or someone you know wear shoes, go ahead and get a pair. Check out the Vessi styles and use the computerclan code And when you do that, you're also supporting the Computer Clan. So thank you very much. Oh, hang on a second. Oh yeah, I gotta take that That's not awkward at all. Catch the crazy and pass it on. (upbeat music) (water splashing) AAAAAAHH!!!!