Hiding inside this box is an absolute You might just find protecting you That's got a lot of people. And while this just might look like a boring old drone, it's It's autonomous, and it weighs five times because the purpose of this drone trying to do bad guy things Now the drones have become so incredibly It's only a matter of time to attack key infrastructure, But before we get too worried, And so today we're going to take a look developed to combat And then after we see we'll investigate how a few backyard YouTube And I don't want to give too much away, turrets, Tesla coil water guns, Now to kick things off with the pros. I headed down to a company called Anduril, when it comes to drone defense, Palmer Luckey, who, by the way, you might recognize at 19 years old to invent the Oculus And right out of the gate, The United States has the ability fighter jet attacks or bomber what happens in the first few That's the thing we have to solve. Palmer explained to me there are six primary ways and every method has a major flaw The first is jamming, where you just overwhelm the drone so it can no longer hear the instructions from the human operator, 70% of all consumer drones are from DJI, to law enforcement that will jam The second method to take out a drone where you remotely hack into the drone and then by exploiting known problems and force it to land or crash. But Palmer pointed out the potential Achilles All they have to do to bypass use different or build a drone that doesn't even need Basically, by using something consumer, drones and frequencies Method number three is high powered lasers, the outside surface of the drone And this works But once again, there's a weakness. what if I just hang a five cent pie tin? Yeah It takes orders of magnitude metal reflective pie tin, it just doesnt work. The next method is a focused beam The goal here is to induce a current that it fries the brain of the drone, all a bad guy has to do to mitigate from Home Depot, it becomes practically invisible You can reduce the amount of power from an EMP by orders of magnitude, that was previously able only works if that copper taped So now the beam gun is basically useless. Coming in at number five are nets And this makes sense if you're trying to capture the bad drone But net carrying drones by default are So they're beatable Now, all of this would be real not for the sixth method that even works. If you designed a super drone that combined all the tricks and it's possibly the oldest method Smashing stuff. And because this method is so foolproof, appropriately called Anvil, to bust up a dangerous drone Imagine a children's bowling as fast as a major league That's what it's like getting hit by Anvil. And so naturally, after hearing all of this, So they took me out to their test grounds, where a bad guy drone was zooming Thank goodness we've got Anvil Now, they immediately identified the drone And that's due to the towers you see here. Each tower has sensors on it, such And then they use computer classify and track everything of interest It's so precise in fact, it will actually identify and They call this software system lattice, at the core of their company. So what we do is and if it's something let's say you try to jam it, It doesn't work. You now launch Anvil. Oh, here it goes. Anvil immediately zoomed out to the bad guy drone, Instead, it just locked into position about 30m underneath it, perfectly Turn for a turn, just waiting to use it's terminal guidance sensors smashing into the drone at And, besides just Anvil, such as Roadrunner here, and larger drones where you would But unlike a Patriot missile, Roadrunner and if you just scare off the threat then it can come back to be reused Ultimately, Anduril is taking the SpaceX engineering to make things And you know they're doing something right because they have some portion in a lot of different places. national parks, military bases around nuclear energy sites. There's a lot of sensitive places who's there and what they might be doing. And so now that we've got a handle on the question you're probably wondering is I think the answer is, it will probably look a 7 foot tall fully articulated that fires a 6 shooter barrel worth of and so to properly test out I called 3 of my engineering buddies who also would tackle the problem, and it sort of turned So in addition to my mega turret, their designs a vortex cannon that can do some real damage that does a little of it's own autonomous drone tracking but for context on our bootstrap engineering showdown It's important that I first let you know about a for over two years because ever since I launched CrunchLabs the biggest piece of feedback was that this was great but what about something for teenagers and adults? Well, I'm happy to say that starting It's called Hack Pack, of really fun, programable robots where we build it together and learn the kinds of engineering skills that go And don't be intimidated a programmable microcontroller Because if you can put together a Lego set, you can put together this No programing required Heck yeah. Meaning for the first desktop It works just like my mega turret, degrees worth of pre-loaded darts, after which you just refill And then for the next box, domino robot that will follow any line and lay down a path of dominoes but then it knows to stop for a refill After that, you've got this oversize just a Sharpie and a roll of masking tape, controlled with a polar gantry. But here's the thing And this is the real magic of Hack Pack. You can easily hack the brains to completely level up the functionality. So for example, for the desktop turret, so only you can control it. and gets it wrong, Or there's a party mode. Sort of like Pie Face, and it will spin around as it Or you can hack it. So when your dad turns on the TV, and autonomously turns to his chair But there's even hardware hacks, too, And if you add a proximity sensor six convincing So all these cool ideas act as a motivator coding module, where you can plug in your robot brain And when you're there, At level one, and you can only swap out the full code hacks like the passcode hack. At level two, you can now change some key the barrel turns or how many numbers And then at level three, And since my goal is to take you from wherever you're currently at where you can post questions, that will check your code for you and help And each really slick looking hack pack not only includes a video from me that shows you how to put it together, nugget about the tools I use your creative engineering brain muscles We put up the lid sticker instruction Arduino crash course on the CrunchLabs so you can see for yourself Just like with my YouTube videos, and making them simple. So if you've always But if you're a master coder and builder, because this is a community. So I'll absolutely be looking for ridiculous hacks and modifications. And then we'll be sure see them so they can be inspired And Hack Pack is a great activity or even just by yourself. If you've always wanted to make but just haven't figured out On top of all that, a couple times a year which I'll place the Platinum Scholarship, Because college is now free for you Plus you get to come out the CrunchLabs with me and my team for a day. So if you want to embark on this journey of discovery with me, or use the link in the video description. We're giving away one free box We poured our hearts into these I am so confident But supplies are definitely limited on this first run, be sure to go check out that And with that, let's What's the confidence level at? Here? Can I have a shovel? That's the sound of an engineer I'm excited to face off my turret versus Your turret actually shoots things. How do you know what mine is? It's right there. oh. That thing. It's controllable with the Hack Pack No. I'm sorry. Move it that way. Lucky for the boys. The turret got distracted pausing at a height where only a mega I could absolutely hit that with a rock. And maybe that's true but let's face it none of us are exactly first to be picked in gym class At any rate, it was time to see what Let me line it up. Hold on. Oh, yeah, that's looking good. Three two. One. Ohhhh that was pretty cool. Yeah. But you missed. Dang it. Oh A little to the right. Fire! Oh! Wow! Oh, this is the one. I can feel it. Three, two. One. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Wait. Hey! What? The drone recovered from that. That drone is so much more impressive Lucky for me, the definitely not made up if a dart makes contact with the drone, Yes! Oh, the mega turret had secured It's dead. A mega hit Yeah. Whats up now? Lets see you guys beat this. Huh! Question is, which one of you guys First up, we've got Kevin. Where is Kevin? He's uhhh... oh! Yee haw! Woo hoo! Yee haw! Kevin! Yeah, yeah. Coming for your drones. This feels like it's bigger than. Whoa. Necessary. This is the V rad Avian defense. So what, you scare birds with that? Yeah, and shoot down drones. This concept was actually invented shooting it at hail clouds in the sky But then they found a far less speculative towards birds, to scare them away You're going to look so silly down with this thing Kevin, giddy up! And when you mix just the right amount of in the combustion chamber and You basically get a single shot Three. Two. One fire! Fire! Wow. Kevin. Real impressive. ohhh! God! And it absolutely destroyed the drone. Oh, my God, it, like, That looked like a really good way Actually, that was just really good. And that's when we realized it was also called chicken. Bring it on. And if you think for a second we were scared to stand before this You're right. But what's even more scary? Oh Oh Oh Oh my god! wait. thats like a jet flying overhead. Was doing it over and over again Oh, my. I wasn't ready It's coming up towards us. Oh my gosh. I hope it blows your hat off Oh, no. Oh, Earggghhh. It got my head. Oh oh. Oh Oh. It's still going. Oh. It's still going. Oh my god And in our game of chicken, to get much closer to the cannon But sadly, This is my invention. This is a Tesla coil. You know When you rub your feet on a carpet Yeah, I know it. This is like a billion times three, two, one Tesla coil? And if it was a contest for coolest Wow! See that's pretty cool, right? Alan definitely would have won right on the spot, but it wasn't. I feel like All right, here's my real plan. Salty electrically conductive goo. Is that legal? What in the world is this? So this is Xanthan gum and salt. It should conduct electricity. That nozzle So when it touches the drone, it's Well, it's just salty protein. Yeah. Yeah! It's thick. It's safe to say I had reservations about As predicted, the coil on its own to hit the drone. Goo stream on. Oh! Oh, wow. Why is so low? That's no good. And it But after a little pressure adjustment, the electric goo gun made contact. Oh, now come on. Oh yes. Yes. And it seemed like Alan Whoa oh, It's still like trying to be alive. There was no way to salvage things here. So sadly... This feels wrong. We had to put the little guy No, Mark! Mark, it's still twitching I'm so sorry. Goodbye, little fella. Oh. Oh, no I said good bye. May your microchips forever And that's how you kill a drone. The light's still on. Oh. All right, Will, I think it's your turn. It's this. Wait! Throwing in a fog machine. And special effects? I didn't know we could order a fog. But Williams creation gloriously emerged. Sort of. I want you to hold on to that. Wait. This is the point, I realized. Will's drone. had taken a sudden interest It's looking at you Mark. It's looking at you Run away, Mark. And it was totally tracking me I did finish it just 30 minutes ago. Will had very ambitiously taken the Anduril approach of attempting Ultimately, his hunting drone to look for a specific IR source and then it would keep itself oriented in the direction You have to attach this thing to know where it is. I mean, how's it going to take it down? Let's do it. And this is where Will brought But to be fair, was hitting the gas All the other choices were being made Okay, I'm taking off, All right. So it's it's hunting. Oh, it's going towards the drone. Run! Ohh. Oh it missed! Oh boy! it's coming back Okay. Go! it reminds me of like Toro. Toro. Ohhh that looked pretty good. But after a series of near misses. yes, the hunter got serious. Oh. Whoa. Nice. Smashing into the drone for the final kill of the night round of applause. That was cool. Time to announce the winner I get to decide since this is my channel. And honestly, As much as I hate to say it. From an engineering standpoint, And your prize, you get three Hack Packs. Whoa oh oh. Now you guys can, you know, And so if you too want to hone your own even just begin to learn some basic possible while having a ton of fun Be sure to check out that link to get your free Hack Pack