I'm Mr. Beat Come on, step up, let's go if (Mr. Beat regains his composure) I'm sorry about that. I'm just kind of in It's got me really paranoid and negative about Look, all human beings make mistakes. No one is Anyway, American Presidents This video is about the greatest mistake in office. They're worst failure, When I say "greatest mistake," I mean the And when I say "thing they did that hurt the most people," I say it with my historian hat So I guess recent Presidents have the full extent of the damage they've George Washington Even my favorite President wasn't perfect. failure to use his influence to call for an he had long privately said that slavery was bad financial security prevented him from freeing his Washington went public about his changed views on Presidency. The country would have been so John Adams Alien and Sedition Acts, four of the worst laws in harder to become a citizen. The Alien Friends Act any foreigner who they thought was dangerous. more powers to detain foreigners during a war, and in my opinion, made it illegal to talk trash or I hope you realize that the Sedition Thomas Jefferson was even worse than George Washington when it came for it to eventually end, and he did sign a law but he likely fathered multiple enslaved more slaves than any other President in American Ugh, Jefferson. But that all aside, I think was signing the Embargo Act of 1807. It banned Jefferson supported the law in order to avoid war the American economy. The country lost tens of James Madison In my video about every president's Madison's biggest achievement was holding Britain his biggest mistake was failing to prevent They called it "Mr. Madison's War" for good Congress to move forward with declaring war easily defeat them if it really wanted James Monroe mistake was signing the Missouri Compromise. but now I say it was actually a major cause of Missouri as a slave state and Maine as a free states and free states that had already of a line of latitude west of the southern Monroe had expressed SEVERAL times that he wanted made the institution more permanent. Sure, it the can down the road. The crisis would ONLY get John Quincy Adams same ol' Teach. I hate tariffs because they make and me. As it turns out, JQ's biggest or as I and other critics like to call both industry and farming alike, and Andrew Jackson and causing the Trail of Tears was horrible, but ultimately hurt even more people. He refused instead allowing state banks to just freely loan it. In response to THIS crisis, Jackson issued federal government land be paid for in either gold Eventually this all at least partially led to the in American history. Normally the President but Jackson's actions certainly played Martin Van Buren it was a series of forced displacements of Seminole, Chickasaw, and Choctaw nations. the Southeast and marched out west for thousands relocated suffered from disease and starvation on Andrew Jackson may have signed the Indian but Martin Van Buren certainly carried out the Cherokee from Georgia. At least 4,000 of THEM they traveled on foot through a particularly harsh William Henry Harrison mistake while President was drinking got him sick and led to his death John Tyler Tyler didn't make many mistakes as President. Then either. I think his biggest mistake was He even vetoed a bill to charter one. While all rosy throughout history, most economists helped prevent economic crashes. In fact, that been avoided if there had been a central bank help failing banks. After Tyler vetoed the would experience some of its worst recessions James Polk was starting an unjust war with Mexico. Polk he sent troops into disputed territory along starting a war. In fact, I'd argue he hoped it It was completely reasonable for Mexico to which they did on April 25, 1846. Polk couldn't urging them to declare war on Mexico, claiming soil." Congress, of course, went along with it. the Mexican-American war was a war of American Zachary Taylor 16 months, but that was enough to make mistakes. the months leading up to the Compromise of Taylor rejected any compromise with the slave originally agreed under the Missouri Compromise. I but his rhetoric against southern leaders only which I guess...yeah it was Millard Fillmore Fillmore took over and SUPPORTED the Compromise the WORST PART OF IT. He signed the Fugitive Slave was responsible for finding and returning escaped free states had to cooperate. This was definitely Franklin Pierce to the Civil War. The Kansas-Nebraska Act! Pierce federal laws ever passed in American history. It settlers to determine whether it would be admitted this caused a mad rush of proslavery and violence would often occur between earned the nickname "Bleeding Kansas." Pierce James Buchanan dude who did some shady stuff to help only him mistake was allowing Southern states to secede. to prevent them from doing so, he didn't even talk so. He was like "oh well, I personally don't think So Buchanan didn't just do NOTHING to prevent Isn't that something? Abraham Lincoln noticing a pattern here with me. You mess with and Lincoln certainly abused the First Amendment. who criticized his handling of the Civil telegraphs that undermined the war. Lincoln for crying out loud. I don't care if Andrew Johnson made PLENTY of mistakes, but I think his to happen. The Black Codes were laws passed by recently freed slaves miserable. Essentially, the 13th Amendment, but the Black Codes made After the Civil War ended, Johnson allowed take back over and yeah, nearly Ulysses Grant and enforcing the Comstock laws. It all started which made it illegal to mail stuff or receive "immoral," or "indecent." It was another After Grant signed the law, a dude named Anthony became THE ENFORCER against bad stuff in the mail. Heywood mailed one of his pamphlets which made the their own bodies. Comstock also arrested another Rutherford Hayes as part of the Compromise of 1877, but it still removing federal troops from the South, marking to a dramatic rise of white supremacist rule had federal protection, and for decades would be James Garfield was letting the media know his schedule. That's going to be at the Baltimore and Potomac Guiteau shot Garfield. Now, Garfield's OTHER Willard Bliss. Garfield was actually things up. While trying to get his bullet he caused a severe infection, which ultimately Chester Arthur was signing the Chinese Exclusion Act, another banned the immigration of Chinese who were which uh...the country desperately needed laws that further discriminated against Chinese it led to what's known as the "Driving Out" era, and even killed Chinese Americans if they didn't Arthur signed the Chinese Exclusion Act because of Grover Cleveland crappy law? Cleveland's biggest mistake the President could subdivide Native American individual heads of families to privately own public to settle. This law singlehandedly led 62% of their land. But its main goal was Benjamin Harrison also hurt Native Americans, and I'm not talking to American settlement. I'm talking about the murdered around 146 Sioux on December 29, 1890 Today we call this the Wounded Knee Massacre, gave out Medals of Honor to 20 of the American William McKinley Philippine-American War, a war so messed up that twenty times. It was an unjust war from the very from Spain and McKinely now wanted the United and between 1899 and 1902 perhaps as many of it. American forces burned villages, and tortured Flilipinos who were suspected horrible stuff American troops did, but I won't go This war is one of the ugliest parts of American Theodore Roosevelt about Teddy's crappy foreign policy, I give his Presidency. He was a man who changed after all. However, one thing still stands Presidency- The Brownsville affair. after someone killed a white bartender and residents all decided to blame all the members even though there was no evidence they actually ordering 167 of the 25th Infantry Regiment's Teddy didn't allow them to have due process of By the way, the Army found them innocent in William Howard Taft signing the Payne-Aldrich Tariff Act, a law that that it deeply split the Republican Party. later calling it "the best tariff bill the lower tariffs on some items, it raised it everyone. It also made the Philippines Woodrow Wilson (Wilson!) Yes. There were MANY to choose from signing of the Espionage and Sedition Acts. Passed the Espionage Act made it illegal to interfere in it a crime to say "disloyal, profane, scurrilous armed forces, or even its flag. According 1000 people went to prison And Sedition Acts signed by Wilson. Some of Again, these are laws that, in my view, Warren Harding NOT good in terms of xenophobia and and Harding definitely played a role in that. His Act, a law restricting immigration from certain it was just meant to restrict immigrants That said, I also have to give two dishonorable Fordney-McCumber Tariff...hey you know how I which was really just a law super wealthy people Calvin Coolidge immigration laws, Coolidge's biggest mistake which expanded xenophobia to Asia. It HEAVILY also called the Asian Exclusion Act, by the the Immigration Act of 1924 favored Europe...for some reason...I guess because their the xenophobic immigration system solidified by and Naturalization Act of 1965. Immigrants a much stronger place, and Coolidge's Immigration Herbert Hoover blame the entire Great Depression on poor Hoover. Hoover's biggest mistake was the Smoot-Hawley to buy American-made stuff by placing tariffs Instead, it led to trading partners retaliating froze international trade, causing companies' dramatically made the Great Depression worse. fail. By the end of 1931, nearly 2,300 banks had Franklin Roosevelt FDR's biggest mistake was Japanese Americans to live in concentration camps, despite no evidence that any of them were If you want to learn more about it, I have Then again, you're probably already and have already lost faith in humanity. So maybe Harry Truman was The Cold War. Wait, the ENTIRE Cold War?!? contributed to the Cold War happening in the first known as the Truman Doctrine, called for military "support for democracies against authoritarian whether it was getting the United States involved aid to countries to fight governments friendly development of nuclear weapons, or destroying Truman's actions all played a big role increasing wrong, I'd blame the Soviet Union's government were far from innocent...but Truman's actions some slack, though. He was president during Dwight Eisenhower know, ("I Like Ike"), but his presidency wasn't roundup of undocumented Mexican immigrants along Order 10450, which contributed to the Lavender was allowing the CIA to help overthrow the Mosaddegh in favor of the Shah, Mohammad Reza time the CIA directly orchestrated a coup of later led to a more radical government getting in then led to the Iran Hostage Crisis. The bottom government's involvement in overthrowing their United States and Iran have a poor relationship, John F. Kennedy was the Bay of Pigs Invasion, which was a exiles landed in Cuba in order to attempt led by Fidel Castro. Most historians acknowledge failures in American history. It made Cold War tensions with the Soviet Union. Not Soviet Union, setting the stage for the Lyndon Johnson of troops in the Vietnam War. Not only do most LBJ's justification for dramatically increasing on a straight up lie. Congress agreed to escalate became known as the Gulf of Tonkin incident. As attack, and the second attack....well that never lied about it. So ultimately, tens of thousands of Richard Nixon that Watergate was Nixon's biggest mistake, and Laos as revealed in the Pentagon Papers, was his biggest mistake. It was more than just Law Enforcement, which eventually morphed into who mostly went after nonviolent drug offenders. with people of color disproportionately being than other groups even though they used drugs War on Drugs was mostly racially motivated. which criminalized drug abuse and said, without psilocybin were just as dangerous as heroin and who have needed medical treatment have instead According to some estimates, the United States has war on drugs. And the drugs have won the war, by Gerald Ford long enough to do much damage, but I'd argue his Indonesian dictator Suharto and his invasion of thousands of civilians dying, and Ford gave Jimmy Carter and Carter later even admitted this as a big Iran Hostage Crisis, which I have a video about, No matter what Carter seemed to do, diplomacy, or even sending in the things just didn't go right to Ronald Reagan Reagan's biggest mistake might just be Reaganomics is basically the economic policies but they're nothing new. Ya know, stuff like fight inflation, and reducing the federal income I'm personally a fan of all that stuff, Reaganomics took all that to the extreme, dramatically reduced economic mobility, difficult for Americans to get out of poverty. a widening income gap...the rich getting richer definitely led to a general trend of the George H.W. Bush ought to go to Operation Just Cause, which to overthrow their leader Manuel Noriega, I six of the convicted criminals associated I think it greatly undermined the There's a vid about the Iran Contra Affair. Bill Clinton gets remembered for his personal scandals, ultimately led to him being impeached, but I damaging for the country. Three laws stand harm than good: The Violent Crime Control and the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity While the Personal Responsibility and like decreasing unemployment, saving the federal management, it completely ignored existing even more poverty among people of color and difficult time after they get out of prison. The number of giant corporations to control nearly days for independent musicians, filmmakers, But Clinton's biggest mistake was signing the build new prisons and hire new police officers, overall. Because of that law, tens of thousands they deserved. And just like the Personal the 1994 Crime Bill made systemic racism more than whites and got harsher sentences By the way, Clinton himself has admitted that George W. Bush one. Bush Jr.'s biggest mistake was Operation was mostly a huge failure based on lies. The Iraq leading to the deaths of hundreds of of billions of dollars of damage, and Bush and Barack Obama Obama's biggest mistake was the expansion and dramatically increased drone warfare, targeting often ignoring the sovereignty of those bombs on innocent civilians. In fact, as much as He normalized the use of drone warfare, Related to this, Obama killed this 16-year it may have been an accident, but geez man. The Donald Trump drone warfare, too. He possibly killed even know for a really long time since he kept all But what's not secret is his blatant attempts to 2020. After he lost the election, he repeatedly and in the process riled up his devoted the country that culminated with the By undermining the 2020 election, he put Even today, tens of millions of Americans and it's only mostly because Trump of their so-called "evidence", "evidence&quot; and it's crap...I'm sorry, Joe Biden withdrawal from Afghanistan was a disaster, matter who was in charge. Therefore, I'm going more employees to enforce a vaccine mandate. Court as it should have been in my opinion. I'm sure if he tries hard enough, And there you have it. Every President's biggest mistake. I should stress that these are If you feel that I'VE made a mistake about these mistakes below. (awkward pause) Hopefully Inflation sucks, but Mrs. Beat and I have found using Upside. You may not know this about me, but up my automobile with the stuff. And Upside helps gives me cash back on every purchase for doing about me, but I also like to eat. We've also been groceries. Not only that, we've used the cash Starbucks and Texas Roadhouse. In comparison to earn three times more cash back with Upside. AND third parties. Upside users are earning hundreds have a 4.8 star rating on the App Store. free and use code MRBEAT to get an extra 25 cents If you enjoyed this video, you're weird, you'll probably also enjoy the video in which Accomplishment. (looking up at the thumbnail) Now it's time for my monthly shout out to all more each month to my channel. Starting with Pat Iapicca, Adam Luckey, Alicia Solberg, Corey Rieman, Douglas Martin, Dr. Isaiah Warfield, Joe Cook, Matt Standish, Samuel Striz, Sean Conant, Society's Basement, Ian Driscoll, KkkaSenjika615, Ilan Capone, Jack Oliver E., LT Marshall, Naterade, Stacey, Waterfort, and Zachary F. Parker. Thank you to ALL