We've lit the fuse on a population bomb is no tomorrow. Mass starvation and genocidal long-prophesied Norse Ragnarok, the Abrahamist Hopi Tribe's "Last Day." If you're an end is near. And if you're a nerd whose best work solved have never been better. Because Armageddon is not just mythological behavior, and two men: one, a Goliath celebrated the other, a David relegated to relative obscurity. It's the story of a bet that bound them natural resources that served as a proxy for have almost been entirely ignored because to survive. The foundational question of their wager is killing ourselves by existing? And if the facts say everything you think "The battle to feed all of humanity is over. of people will starve to death in spite of late date nothing can prevent a substantial In 1968, Paul Ehrlich opened his doomsday with those three sentences. Ehrlich was, and field of study is butterflies, and 4 years the world, he popularized a theory of 'coevolution' happen in isolation, and that plants and insects both their evolutionary paths. He'd spent decades thinking about how the ecosystem worked -- minerals, water, plants, didn't. Or, that it didn't anymore. He he not only knew why it would happen, but When he was catching butterflies as a kid so large that it filled his bedroom and he no idea that his life was on a collision course a few miles away. Julian Simon's interest between Ehrlich and Simon was a decades-long you. It's a debate over morals, mankind, and wager between Paul Ehrlich and Julian Simon started with a political economist whose students Thomas Malthus focused on economics and demography. Population," Malthus wrote that: "It has been said that the great question start forwards with accelerated velocity toward or be condemned to a perpetual oscillation effort remain still at an immeasurable distance OKAY. His life span almost perfectly covered the and he was at the center of it in Great Britain. -- for the first time, machines operated by which were then traded throughout a global Improvements in mining and refining made iron power had finally matured. Life was getting But if you watched my video on Ignaz Semmelweis early 1800's, you know that it was also improvements and increases in overall wealth, any point in history. Poverty, disease, and that surrounded Malthus -- and the environment The River Thames had been the lifeblood of Caesar's invasion -- and Malthus watched dumped waste directly into the river, including houses. Garbage was also just thrown in because it was the perfect outlet for human sewage. and infinite toilet killed wildlife, made that killed tens of thousands at a time. And it really STUNK -- July and August of Michael Faraday described The Thames as "feculence visible at the surface." The point is that Malthus was witnessing progress fathomed -- and he was also seeing misery, obviously unsustainable future. He concluded that the problem was people: He wrote: "It is an obvious truth, which has been must always be kept down to the level of the To Malthus, the math is what made the threat catastrophe" came down to comparing exponential the human population left unchecked grows babies. In the 1700s, women of the lower class 5 of them reaching adulthood. If 2 parents 5 more, and each of those produce 5 -- your 4 generations -- that's an increase of 7,750% And it was an economic problem, too: the more labor, the lower the wages. And the lower food that everyone is competing over. Contrast that with an increase in food production the available farmland can only produce so to restore the balance. He wrote, "Subsistence and that was that -- in the battle of geometric side is going to win. Malthus tried to depict "man as he really unless compelled by necessity." To him, poor. As Malthus wrote the Principle of Population, -- but it was also in the wake of having suffered of its American empire, and the day by day Bonaparte's France. If everything that got country in the world, why would he have an future? In 1971, Paul Ehrlich agreed. He said, &quot;By a small group of impoverished islands, inhabited take even money that England will not exist In 1980, Julian Simon noticed that England Ehrlich saw as a set of problems destined an incredible opportunity. The really interesting thing about Julian Ehrlich. In the 1960's he published articles -- encouraging people to limit births -- on circuitous. He studied experimental psychology and played poker to support himself. He also factory, and a brewery, so he knew dirty work with both. After college he enlisted in the Navy and ports of the world where he saw the struggles negative impacts of mechanization. He left and economics, studying in a University of Milton Friedman and Friedrich Hayek. Through lives of the most vulnerable people in the no academic does now: changed his mind. Just like Malthus, it's important to understand off their debate. When Ehrlich published The generation removed from the most terrible military and civilian deaths from World War and the war ended with the debut of the most the 20 years since worrying about which of the other. Meanwhile, in the United States, social conflict had been assassinated, and in '68 both Martin -- right as dissatisfaction with the Vietnam India were struggling to feed billions. Ehrlich in the country with the world's highest would look at all that evidence and conclude good! Environmentalism had also branched out from era -- by the time Rachel Carson published threats from pesticides used in agriculture happening. David Attenborough said that her behind only Darwin's "Origin of Species" on exposing problems in the environment, but Also in 1968, ecologist Garrett Hardin published the metaphor of a public, unregulated plot the point of total obliteration. Hardin wrote, -- and the message was that left to our own Modifying human behavior is hard -- the simplest humans at all, and if we didn't do it ourselves, In the 1969 essay "Eco-Catastrophe," Ehrlich growth curve is one familiar to biologists" and depend on their environment, populations can provide. He called it the "outbreak-crash of abundance and crash -- or completely disappear he wrote in Audubon that "We've had most the crash." The world population at that 2% per year, which put it on pace to reach Malthus had already outlined two types of become Ehrlich's Population Bomb: preventative check is an act that controls population by have kids, limiting the number of children one-child policy -- and the wider availability A positive check is actually... not that positive. like war, disease, famine -- or murder. It And you might be surprised at how many academics of eco-justice. In their 1967 book "Famine! 1975," brothers United States should limit its foreign food with growing populations. They categorized So, no food for them. Pakistan scored higher food. And the idea to withhold food in an was typified by President Lyndon Johnson's the Bihar Famine of 1966. He told an advisor, in nations where they refuse to deal with Ehrlich supported food punishment. He said, in all my recent talks on the population crisis," for a good cause" because India was "hopeless." It was India that actually inspired Ehrlich Bomb. He had traveled to Delhi in 1965 with of London in the time of Malthus: "My wife and daughter and I were returning were hopping with fleas. The only functional city, we entered a crowded slum area. The was a haze of dust and smoke. The streets watching, people sleeping. People visiting, hands through the taxi window, begging. People to buses. People herding animals. People, through the mob, hand horn squawking, the the scene a hellish aspect." Ehrlich knew something had to be done. 65 years ago Leonard Read detailed the seemingly the creation of a single pencil. Think about and logging the cedar, mining the graphite, a lighthouse guiding shipping vessels into their own to make a simple little thing. And Education he created would turn his unique Their Unscene series investigates the stories just released a video about how Disney caved Martin Scorcese film about the Dalai Lama. reveals how the world really works. You can in economics hosted by... me. Thanks again to the Foundation for Economic the link to their channel in the description of complex systems of human behavior -- throw Coercion wasn't off the table for Ehrlich parents did not have a natural right to have a worldwide limit of 2 children per set of to breed is intolerable," but warned that coercion" -- because trying to control people In The Population Bomb, Ehrlich said that are necessary to establish a reasonable population of Population and Environment" that could Forced sterilization was an option for him agents in public drinking water. He said that that compulsory birth control offers the only Some of his allies became increasingly nervous radical ideas, including members of the group still exists, now called Population Connection their global sterilization efforts were not people. But Ehrlich wasn't the only one sounding diplomats, economists, and business leaders their 1972 "The Limits to Growth: A Report of Mankind" presented an MIT computer model industrialization, pollution, and consumption They called for an absolute halt to economic production would collapse, population would air, sea and land would be "polluted beyond wasn't today, it was actually yesterday, but with awesome suddenness, with no way of The movement's most radical ideas became program in 1975. The BBC described the initiative: "The drive to sterilise began in the 1970s of millions of dollars from the World Bank, and the UN Population Fund, India embarked During the 1975 Emergency - when civil liberties former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, began campaign' to sterilise poor men. There were virtually dragging the men to surgery." 6.5 million Indian men were sterilized in Nazis sterilized -- and about 2,000 of those In The Population Bomb's chapter called "When we suggested sterilizing all Indian have encouraged the Indian government to go should have volunteered logistic support in instruments. We should have sent doctors to training paramedical personnel to do vasectomies. cause." His priority was to systematically eliminate were almost exclusively poor and non-white. Even in his days of population concern, Julian or The Club of Rome: he argued that avoiding and that it would save $114 -- which he called offering payments to families not to have check. His idea rewarded people for their their will. But Simon eventually started to realize that When he studied family dynamics and their income drove different behaviors among families have larger families, and larger families on reproduction, and still do. He looked to who concluded that a larger population means work that showed population density determines and its efficiency. Simon realized that population made it out to be -- and not simply subject Ehrlich created, which was Impact = Population But Ehrlich was the guy everyone wanted to charismatic -- which made him totally unlike as he detailed humanity's impending doom Show over twenty times. Here he is with Johnny of a growing population just... isn't really Ehrlich: "Why don't we try doing a really can do that. After we've got 4 billion people with good health, and everybody's fed, and we can say, well, gee, alright, maybe we can of 5? Well, there would be another half a find..." Carson: "Well, you'd like that!" Ehrlich: "Yeah, right" [audience laughter] care of right first." [audience claps] Carson: "Yeah, I think you're right. I Ehrlich was masterful at presenting the science moral and emotional terms. Do you want kids human suffering? No. Do you want to see the all plant and animal life? I don't know. PROBABLY And he fomented guilt, too -- especially among States and Western Europe. Is your standard world pays? In "The Bet," Paul Sabin writes that Ehrlich's in whipping up Neo-Malthusian fervor. He points Resources, Environment: Issues in Human Ecology" Center for Population Studies, that highlights "Staggering, sobering, disaster (three times), tremendous, highly lethal, extremely dangerous extremely fortunate, extremely vulnerable, not gruesome enough, colossal hazard, biological Revelle noted what he called "apocalyptic I just read appeared in only four pages out Ehrlich had become a celebrity on TV, was not happy. The 70's brought a series of energy crises in a 43% increase in the price of gas, gas numbers, and serious fears about dependence smart -- but Simon insisted that population rather than frighten us." How!? How could he look at a world in crisis Simon had spent the 70's writing about all were wrong: wrong about their models, wrong the way the whole world works. And he was writing, seemingly, to no one. Doomslayer" -- he said seeing Ehrlich tout me out of my skull... Here was a guy reaching environmentalist hysteria, and I felt utterly people?&quot; Well, the truth of the matter is even those 1800 and 1980, the price of wheat in the United growing by about 4,500%. It didn't matter increase geometrically, and birthrates had -- including below "replacement rate," to maintain current levels of population. 1980, it was 61 -- and that happened due to food production, and greater wealth. That's All his frustration led to an article that debate over humanity's future. In the June "Resources, Population, Environment: An summary says it all: "False bad news about population growth, published widely in the face of contradictory arable land has actually been increasing, food and energy has been decreasing, and basic positive trends. The aggregate data show no upon standard of living. Models that embody influence of population size upon productivity of additional people." Simon completely decimated claims that arable noted that cultivated land was rising at 1% nations were producing more food on less land better at farming and technology was making To the charge that the world increasingly capita food production had also grown at about Now It wasn't good news, yay yay yay, cotton will be. Simon was honest about that. But in vulnerable countries were overwhelmingly political instability. He called out The New Bank -- and, of course, Ehrlich. And he lamented delivered grim, and ultimately wrong, projections "Population growth and productivity increase Rather, additional persons cause technological new productive knowledge." He also wasn't the first to challenge Malthus some unexpected allies throughout history. Karl Marx called Malthus a "plagiarist," and Engels refuted Malthus's concept of "... the determining factor in history... immediate essentials of life." Marx and collectivism that would eventually become of freedom and markets -- but they all believed population problems that seem hopeless. But Economist Henry George stated the difference saying, &quot;Both the jayhawk and the man eat chickens, while the more men, the more chickens.&quot; Monarch butterflies eat nectar produced from nectar to support the monarch butterfly population, level. But if humans have restricted access something -- or it becomes too expensive, that humanity has two superpowers: adaptability and we can substitute, all of which constitutes thought. Because, to Simon, those finite resources used copper as an example, saying that we because: "new lodes, new methods of mining lodes; because copper can be made from other boundaries within which copper might be found Even less possible is a reasonable calculation we are now accustomed to get from copper, of other materials for copper, as in the case Translation, we are good at finding more, it, we're using it more smartly, and how how we'll use it in the future -- if we Simon wrote in Science that we have so much where the funding is for researchers -- and who talk about everything getting better. of exponential growth models" have the "power so many people compare the present with the of comparing the present to the past. Simon and his growing ranks of optimists were -- referencing the Greek mythological horn ran out. Ehrlich said Simon was "like the and says how great things are going so far Ehrlich insisted that not only did we have up fast, while Simon was effectively arguing help that he wrote that humanity's only of the universe. To Ehrlich, we were doomed; to address our problems, but that we'd come was kind of a big difference. So the battle lines had finally been drawn future of the human race. It was time for In Social Science Quarterly, Simon said he'd still existing 20 years on -- but instead, that the cost of non-government-controlled not rise in the long run.&quot; Simon said that Ehrlich could choose any 5 to him -- and that they would track the prices On September 29, 1980, Ehrlich agreed to a each of 5 resources he and his colleagues coming decade: copper, chromium, nickel, tin, went up, Simon would pay Ehrlich their difference prices went down, Simon would win the bet Copper has been used in various capacities to modern conductors. Chromium is a component wrenches are hard and don't rust. Nickel use it now in the rechargeable batteries of and plating -- which is why plated steel cans is extremely hard and dense, and it's necessary presented a cross-section of nature-dependent would force demand and scarcity to collide. The 1980s saw a dramatic policy shift in the for a freer market in line with Simon's real, holes in the Ozone layer threatened and the Exxon Valdez oil spill dominated the of nuclear war still loomed, and a nuclear Mile Island. So things did not seem awesome. But on September 29, 1990, it was time for In 1980, the price of chromium was $3.90 per by half from $8.72 to $3.88. Three of the inflation, and the other two both fell in Simon won the bets on all 5 of the chosen and his doomsday philosophy lost. In October of 1990, a check from Wells Fargo Simon's mailbox. There was no note, and wife. In his book "The Ultimate Resource," Julian "Adding more people causes problems. But The main fuel to speed the world's progress our lack of imagination and unsound social resource is people--especially skilled, spirited, will exert their wills and imaginations for will benefit the rest of us as well." It was truly a triumph of hope and optimism lucky? A 2009 paper called "Luck or Skill? An Examination the bet been run one more time from 1990-2000, the wager taken place for any of the possible Ehrlich would've won 61.2% of the time. Actually, the data shows a massive crash in means they spent the rest of the century slowly an artificial bias toward Ehrlich's rising point about the power of human cooperation of cooperation -- to determine how we use It's easy to look at the results of the -- and it's even easier to revisit failed and worldwide famine killing billions and to understand why those predictions happen natural to think everything is bad and getting and popular, and why the doomslayers aren't In 2016, Swedish physician Hans Rosling was writing "Factfulness: Ten Reasons We're his "last battle in my life-long mission published in 2018 a year after he died. Rosling to convince us that the world is forever going devastatingly-wrong reactions to our problems. is to consider the differences between the the majority or whether all levels of society And he argues that our "Negative Instinct" at all. Our "Straight Line Instinct" causes us exactly as they are right now rather than Instinct" distorts our perception of risk Our "Size Instinct" makes us feel overwhelmed Instinct" lumps all our problems together Instinct" makes us feel like none of our tend to get better slowly. Our "Single-Perspective Instinct" hyper-focuses considering many solutions that work in combination, on the bad guys who we're convinced are threatening might be the "Urgency Instinct," catastrophe if we don't do something immediately Only a single comma separates "Do something, Ehrlich was 0 for 5 on his bet with Julian checklist of instinctual pathologies. Paul Ehrlich is now in his 90's, and he's he's right -- or that he was never that after being featured on 60 Minutes that, "If is always peer-reviewed, including the POPULATION honor. Sure I've made some mistakes, but no Elon Musk disagrees. In June, he said that, humanity. Immense. I despise him." In April of 2023, Ehrlich gave an interview deny anyone the opportunity to have children, "... if you have 10 children, you're an world." The birth rate in Somalia is 7.5 times higher whether Ehrlich thinks Somalians are 7.5 times In 1981, the year after the Ehrlich-Simon Ultimate Resource&quot; came out -- 88% of the Deng Xioping's market reforms then fueled standard of living. China's extreme poverty any restrictions on reproduction, and China in the world. In 1980, the average daily caloric intake India, it rose from 1,994 50 years ago to we now have a new problem of consuming too Life expectancy globally was just 61 years In 2022, about 630,000 people worldwide died about 2 million per year just 20 years ago, commercials for combination antiretroviral levels. In 1998, Julian Simon was jumping rope on upstairs to answer it. It was their daughter Julian's first grandchild. A grandchild that was not just one more mouth unlimited creative capacity -- a brand new time, one with the power to innovate, to identify maybe just one more human to make life worth Not an insect whose primitive cerebral ganglia a person who can harness that flame to cook the rocks they dig up. Julian Simon's grandchild got a little better every day, even when it Julian's wife ran down the stairs to give the living room floor. He'd had a heart Paul Ehrlich's Population Bomb theory was bet with Simon, the Western Monarch Butterfly We cleared forests for farming, and the milkweed to control weeds in crops shrunk available But we've responded by doing exactly what plan that includes planting 1.3 billion milkweed Everyone knows we are mired in problems and one way to avoid armageddon is to think beyond most basic instincts, and to make use of our And as always, thanks for watching. &quot;Because it has been agreed by the nations sustain a continuously increasing population,