- This is one of the most popular enthusiast gaming keyboards on Amazon. But today, I have a simple question. Is it better to buy the pre built, or is it better to build it yourself? Welcome to episode 1 of Buy I have 30 minutes, starting now. Now, I've built a lot of and usually that is a smart move, but as someone who's built half a mechanical keyboard in my life, I'm gonna need a lot of help. So, I'm gonna use the AI Alright so, Bing is telling PCB, switch mounting stabilizers, key caps, USB I could just go with this now. Alright so, lemme just look So, can I get the Epomaker? Bing found it in literally one click. Oh wait, is it in stock? Oh, it's a pre-order! No! Okay, so this is what I was afraid of. You don't just go and order what you need. You will pre-order something, it may take 6 months, it may take 9 months or 12 months before Now, Drop, previously known as Massdrop, they're a little bit more I would say, of a mainstream brand. Mechanical keyboards. Oh, DIY kits. Okay, yes. Yes, yes, yes. So, here's the thing. I conceptually know what I'm doing, which is a little different what I'm doing. So, I want tactile switches. Okay, so, Bing was telling that I would like the Holy Pandas. Good Lord. I'm over, like, $230 just by throwing enough key switches in. Wow. This is so much more $105 just for my switches? Maybe I don't need Holy Pandas. Maybe I need crappy pandas. Could I get cheap switches please? What are cheap switches? Yes, Speeds. There we go. How many is this? 35 unit. Okay, Imma do this one instead. I don't even know if these are good. I'm just gonna do these instead. Okay, I'm up to $175 dollars. (cries) All right, all right, all right. What do I still need? So, I need key caps. (screams) Why are they so expensive? Should I go to Etsy? Okay, I'm gonna go to Etsy. Oh, my god. They've got Squirtle in a key cap. Okay, one extra key cap is fine, right? These are actually not terrible. Oh, these are kinda nice, actually. The only thing is they're white. So, my keyboard is just gonna be black with white key caps and a blue Squirtle. (screams and cries) All for $300. Wait, I'm at $294 plus another... How much for my Squirtle key cap? Another $35. Wow, this is so expensive. This video is sponsored by Headphones.com. A few months ago, we took a Holy (beep). (laughs) These are high-end audiophile headphones that also rock active noise cancellation. And, look, there are a ton of specs but, ultimately, they sound incredible. Focal are famous for their which deliver impressive clarity, without sacrificing punchiness, even when over Bluetooth. But what makes the is the USB DAC mode, which takes sound Even beyond the 3.5mm jack Just plug into your device high-res audio with minimal latency, something that's really to edit video, like the The Bathys also has a slick from Focal's Passive closed-back line but with the addition of The headband and yoke structure are made out of light-weight, but sturdy, Not to mention the incredible quality, thanks to them being built in If you're ready for a serious because the Bathys are their regular price at Headphones.com. I would act quick though. The sale only runs through Definitely be sure to check them out at the link in the description. And, of course, huge thank for sponsoring this video. (elevator music) So this is the Razer Huntsman V2, which is currently available which is a lot of money for a keyboard. But when you come to the $200 is a drop in the bucket compared to what you can spend So, there are a few things So, you do have access to So, if all you're looking pre-built keyboard, and with a couple of additional key caps, you can do that very easily. But the real advantage, in my opinion, with building a keyboard is The build quality, the You can do so much to, not in the actual board, but also every minute detail along the way to make sure it's Now, I'm not gonna lie to you and say that this is an easy process. And, again, I've only really built, like, one keyboard in the past but I also am very enthusiastic I love it and it's something so, for this video, you as like the average enthusiast who's just trying to decide, &quot;Should I go out and buy the pre-built, which is well-reviewed, that I'll be very happy with, or should I strike out on my own? Walk into the wild, dark abyss of not knowing how to do it yourself and come out the other Only one way to find out. - This is where I get - I'm not gonna be judged by So, I'm just saying, if I am not gonna accept your judgment. My base is, the tried and true, Drop CTRL. I acknowledge that this is, maybe, not the world's most It was the only thing that that was not months backordered. Let's take a look at the keyboard Starting out with my Drop CTRL. So, this is the base of my keyboard. Now, importantly, this is when it comes to the TKL layout, which is my preferred way of typing. You'll see it's really, very, very basic. So, it is all metal. Sounds a little hollow. - [Ken] That's my biggest - So these are my Kailh Copper switches. So, these are specifically Now, I ordered these because, as a budding keyboard enthusiast, I relied on my good buddy, Bing, to tell me what would be good (Ken laughing) - [Ken] Wait, hold on. Hold on, hold on. So, you, Austin Evans. - Yep. - [Ken] Tech YouTuber. - Yes, that's me. - [Ken] Who has a lot of friends. - Lots of friends. - [Ken] You know, in the creator space. - I didn't call any of them. - [Ken] Yes, that they've definitely built a lot of keyboards before. Did you not think to... - No, because, Ken, I'm trying to and not everyone can and ask for his opinion. - [Ken] But they can watch him. - I'm not gonna watch videos. You think I've been doing I used the power of AI to So, these are my switches. - Oh, those actually sound pretty nice. - It's pretty good, right? - So, Speed switches? - Speed. - Yeah, yeah, Speed. - I am Speed. - Uh, actu- - I'm Lightning McQueen. I'm Speed. - The actuation is higher up so the press happens way higher. Are you lubing any of these switches? - Oh. - Are you lubing switches? - How funny you mentioned that that is actually going to happen. So I've got myself some Krytox 22, I read it upside-down, 205. The very famous lubricant and that I've heard of before And I got an entire random - [Ken] I'm surprised - I... That's the scuffed version of this video. This is not building a If I was doing that, I would be soldering but soldering is scary because hot and it smokes a little bit and I don't like soldering because I'm not very good at it. But instead, if I wanted to, it'd be very straight forward. All I would need to do is line it up and then I just go. (switch pops) Boom. And then, if I had a key I just do this. I've got my keyboard deck, I have wide variety of Speed switches, I also have my lubricant, but what I'm missing is to complete this set up. Which is where the key caps come in. These are black and white, Well, I would say, not a It looked a little different online. So, it's a very, sort of, complex shape when you look at it from the top. So, it's kind of scooped up and then it's very much, sort where, you know, you... It captures your fingertip So, I've got all of my key caps here, but wait. Oh, wait. Oh, I'm stupid. Oh, I don't have all my key The piece de resistance, my friend. - [Ken] The piss? - [Joanna] That's what - The piece... (Ken and Joanna laughing) The piece. Piece de resistance. Behold, my friends, the one key cap that is going to pull this Oh, okay. - [Ken] Is this how you proposed to Karen? - Yes, with a little Squirtle key cap. Look how cute that is. Look how cute that is. Now, is the most expensive Oh, I think it was. And did this take weeks and It sure did. But, this is such a cool thing. So, you can see, if you get really close, it is a full 3D little Squirtle on, what looks to be, like, I don't know, like, the ocean floor or something. So, I believe it's all - [Ken] Okay, so, how - Don't worry about it. Let's try this guy out. Let's try this guy out. And now. Oh, look at that. I'm basically done. But, one thing I'm missing, if your keyboard is not on and you're gonna be asked to leave, which is why I have purchased this. It is a Bitwit. Bitwit. Noted friend of the channel, Kyle Bitwit. (indistinct) His name is Mr. Bitwit. Fun fact, last time I hung out with Kyle he had to give me a ride So, I paid him back by which are available at the at Bitwit.tech. He didn't give me a discount though. I paid the full price for this. In all seriousness though, if as building your own keyboard, on some kind of slightly softer surface. Ooh, that's nice. Look at that. Now, my friends, it's and begin the keyboard building montage. (intense music) Let me show you how to Take it from a guy who learnt So, I have this little jig, to pop my switch out. So, I'm just gonna line it up and then just push it and it comes loose. So, there are a few pieces So, there's the outer plastic piece, there's the little stemmy guy, there's a spring and This is the actual where the metal touches to form the actual connection. So, gonna do this is I'm on my tiny brush. So, I'm gonna just lube around Now, I'm going to lube the spring 'cause, obviously, I Got my spring, and next, My stab, my, I don't, not sure Gonna reassemble this, making sure that I don't do it backwards 'cause I did that the first time and accidentally got my key And then, the whole things And now I will go ahead and I am doing the less important keys first so in case I learn that I want I can still tweak it and tune the ones that are actually important. But if I line this up, there we go. Oh, that's not bad. I've got six down and 81 to go. Think what that means is I'll see tomorrow when I'm done lubing all my switches. (standby noise) Behold, my friends. The ultimate keyboard experience Let's plug this in and see it come to life Woo-hoo. All right, let's get started. Okay, ready, and. Woo. I will say, man, that space bar sounds bad. Ugh, okay. I'm happy with how this went but, if I were to do it again, and, maybe, a few extra bucks, there's some changes I would make. But I'm not gonna tell Ken any of that. Oh, hello there. Hi, friend. Have you come to see what the future of keyboard gaming is like? So, I'm still preparing but I can give you a tour right now. - [Ken] Okay. - So, here's the one-size-fits-all option. It's a Razer thing. You can try it, not important. Or, you could experience the specifically designed by a true artist known as Austin Cornelius Evans. - That's not my name. (indistinct) - I just made that up but it sounded funny and I'm just gonna confidently continue to talk directly into the camera. - I haven't looked at the and I certainly haven't tried the V2 but oh, that does sound pretty good. - Yeah, if you're a pleb who just wants to use a regular keyboard. - That space bar is a little - You know what? No, I don't think that's... I think you just need more which is why I have to be full of character and- - Okay, okay, okay. - Yeah, go ahead. - We're gonna go down. - Okay. (keyboard clicking) - Oh, yeah. It's creamy, I like it. - It's the first time I've heard that. - Very creamy. (keyboard clicking) (space bar clicking loudly) - That's my character. So, see, I'm, personally, a fan I want you to know it. I want everyone in the room to know it. - You didn't work on the stabs. - Go ahead, go ahead. - When you try and compare these- - I've got the Typings.gg up. Feel free to type away and - I need a wrist rest. (keyboard clicking) No, no. Okay. The rattling reverberates so much that it messes - with my head a little bit. Like, I think you did good with everything that didn't have stab in it. I'll give you that. - Yeah, I didn't know what stabs were. - I could tell. But luckily enough, if and improve this to use it daily, you actually can just go on Amazon. Here, like, these are ones that I bought. The Durock V2 because they were available for next day shipping. Literally, I mounted this to be fair, I don't know what specifically because it's been a while but I think you can actually or, at least, some kind - Yeah, you've experienced aural bliss. Why don't you try the Razer and give your thoughts on that? - So, here's the thing. There is some pinging but While this might not be the if this is cheaper than I'd still get this one. - Well, it's cheaper anyway (indistinct) - Hold on, hold on. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. We have some added value. You just doubled the - With that super cool Squirtle switch. If we were to have this conversation five, maybe even three, years ago, I think pre-built keyboards were decent but the thing is, they've So speaking of- - Like this one. - Oh, dude. - So, this is the Nuphy Halo 75. I almost forgot the name - There's a lot of Nuphy keyboards. - There are a lot of Nuphy keyboards but this guy is absolutely nuts. So, we spent about 150, 160 bucks on this. It's pre-built. This thing sounds amazing and Lubing, like, all of the - Even the print quality of the key caps of, like, the lettering - Nuphy is on a whole other Look, here, here. Listen to this, right. (keyboard clicking) - It's so good. So what's your opinion then? Do you think it's better - If you're willing to commit to research and really finding what your preference is and, maybe, a little - And thousands of dollars - Not necessarily. that may or may ever show up. - Not necessarily. I think that you can built for less than 200 bucks but you have to make some and you also need to do some research. - Less than how much? 200 bucks? - 200 bucks. Is this more than 200 bucks? 300 bucks?