- If you're smart and you saw us fill my brother's and that was kind of cool. So we're going to react Here's a perfect example of it. - It grows an entire worm. What is this? - Could you imagine like a You don't have technology, You're just walking and you just see that shoot out of the ground. They would to literally - Or you would rule, they would fear you. It's just so crazy how I thought matter couldn't be created. - Isaac Newton was wrong. - Newton? More like- - Idiot. - Idiot. I'm noticing a theme. Tubes out of the ground. Oh, it's so hot. - Remember when we with elephant toothpaste? It was like the sun. - What they don't tell you also, is that it has so much salt in it and when it gets out of - It also dyes your skin. - And your shoes. I have green shoes now. This is really cool though, They're like mixing. - Relaxing. - Kinda looks like ice Looks more like froyo. Froyo is better than ice cream. This was brought to you by At least I don't have Crohn's. - Hey! - Let's make fun of each other's diseases. - Yes. What's wrong with you? - Comment and let us know. - So we could make fun of it. I knew this was going - Yeah. - Mark Rober, the elephant toothpaste king of the world. When we did our elephant toothpaste video, we had to fly him down, 'cause we didn't know what we were doing. - But he does. This is going to fill the whole backyard. - Oh, snap. - Did they think it was Oh no. - Good job Mark. - I wonder how his if they were like dyed a certain color. - Look in the bottom right. Crazy Russian experiment. Get rid of crazy, get rid of experiment, what do you have? - Russian. - Means, it's going to be epic. - Let's go. - Oh, look at them running. - Yeah. - Dude, and this music - I miss listening to heavy metal. - Look at that guy right there. Look, as it gets closer, you - This is a dope shot. - Oh, I accidentally dropped my cup. All right, let me keep walking. - It should be fine, since that's just a pipe - Yeah. And oh, I dropped- - Wait! Oh! - Now there's a pool noodle. I love calling it a pool noodle, it just brings me so much joy. - It just doesn't stop. Look at it. It's flying. - It looks like the wacky, - Oh, jelly. - This looks like that Goober - Maybe that's how they make it. - I don't know, nobody eats Oh, it kinda looks like toothpaste. Is that why it's called - Yeah. - Oh, and the elephant, 'cause it's big. - How far are we in the video? A couple minutes. - Yeah. - I did it. - His brain's a little slow. This is cool. How big do the balloons get? - I've got my money on, - Dude, is this dude just Oh. - I was right. - I got my money at that, that popped- Oh! Oh, zoom in. - They're making pasta. - Oh! Yo, that's funny. Play it in slow mo. - Breaking Bad TikTok. - Yo. Yo, wait, look how So look, it's blue, now it's brown, now it's green. - Now it's bright green. Now it's blue again. And now it's erupting. Yo, this stuff's cool. - We should do this again. - Agreed. What should we fill with - Comment below. - What if we filled The Rock's house with elephant toothpaste? - I don't think The Rock We could probably do Jack Black, he would probably like that. - Jack Black, hit us up. Someone in their backyard. Wait, is that, was there Mentos in there? - There was Coke, Mentos, elephant foam. If there were fireworks in this, you'd have all of Chris's favorite- - Honestly, you know how there - Uh huh. - I think this is what caused it. - Somebody get the footage, review it. We got to find out who this guy is. It's floating away. It floated away. Why did it float away? - Why were the Mentos necessary? - Look, and then it just floats away. It's like, I must go. My people need me. They created a new creature - What if that's a new bird, right? You just look outside and This was the spawn of - If you play really it looks like they just summoned this and now it's going off - It's like a Pokemon that's just wandering around in the wild. Yo. Photoshop this over top. Actually, Photoshop thousands of these over top of a city, just invading it. We're no longer safe anymore. FBI, look into this man. - You guys need to do more stuff. What are you doing? - Honestly, if we should just form the FBI - The Federal Beast Inspectors. Oh wait, okay. Just a large hill. Stop it. Nevermind, we're fine. - All right. Maybe the FBI knew that. - Maybe that's why they We should have just watched - Hey, that thing again. A bucket in the ground. - It's the same girl. - Is this in slow mo, or is it just slow? - This is just slow. Whoa. There it goes. You can tell she did this and she was like, I'm just - Yeah. - No shame in that though, 'cause now we're reacting to it. - Listen here folks, if you're not currently subscribed, I hate you. But that's okay because if I'll no longer hate you. - Hey, look at that. He'll like you again. - I'm a nice guy, as long as you're subscribed. - Gr. - That wasn't a very intimidating gr. - Grrr! - Three, two, one, go. - What? - Oh, this definitely looks - It does. - They should really pay the - If I ever saw this on a TV at Best Buy, I'd buy it. - No questions asked. - Okay, what is that? - Who is that Pokemon? - Paper-mache volcano? - It's- - That's a T-Rex, you idiot. - Oh. - But behind the T-Rex Let's find out. Is this how dinosaurs went extinct? - Oh no. - T-Rex move. The music's great. - Nothing like dubstep and elephant foam. My two favorite things. I say my two favorite things a lot. I have a lot of favorite things. - So your favorite things are - Uh huh. - Not your wife and your child? - I said what I said. - Soda, vinegar. - That's baking soda, - And then you dip the chip in, you have those horrible He likes them. - I love salt and vinegar chips. They're horrible. - Wait, why is the smoke doing that? - Dude, I think there's better methods for putting out a candle. - Like your air in your lungs. You can always tell it's when it's just a random hole in a ground they're putting stuff in. Look at that. - This also works with Mentos? Why didn't Mark Rober tell us that? - Maybe he didn't want - True. - I want to see it hit the sky. - Perfect, because at the end of the video we have some insane stuff. - No way. I guess I'll just have to - Sounds like you have no other choice. - It's time for liquid Go. - Who will win? - All right, well. - Fire beats ice. - What if he accidentally - Like froze her leg? Look at that. - That's crazy. This is probably the coolest - This is probably the I would say, don't try this one. - 40 milliliters of isopropyl alcohol- I couldn't read it. - Which is swirled for two minutes. - To evaporate the alcohol. Okay. - And now he's pouring - We decant the remaining isopropyl, a highly combustive mixture of air and alcohol is now in the container. - That's so cool. Yo, my science teacher Why didn't we have this - I know. This is nice. Is that how jets work? - I was thinking that. It - Hey, more barrels in the ground. Oh, I wonder what's going Why is this one slow? This elephant toothpaste is broke. - Elephant toothpaste machine broke. It's floating away! Someone warn the nearest city. They're on the invasion again. - They're doing it. They're attacking. Okay, how did we not know about this? We need better friends. I want to do this right now. - Oh my God. - I want to do this right now. - Back in our old videos, we and Chris would spend days and you could've just Compare Chris's flame thrower which was better? Okay. Lava versus ice. - How are people able - I mean, our lava looked pretty good. - Nah. - His lava's more thick. When we poured lava and - Play our lava. After seeing that- - My girlfriend's going to leave me. - Yeah, for this lava. - So, put an egg in a glass. Pour some vintage de vino- Oh, he moved it too quick. - It's vinegar. - Vinegar comes from grapes? - Does it? I actually don't and I enjoy it. I think it comes from acid. - That would explain why this egg shell just changed colors after 24 hours. - Yeah, it's eating the egg shell. Watch, I bet you can just - Oh yeah. We did this in science class. - What science class were you in? Is this a ant hill? Oh it's a volcano. - That's cool. Manmade volcano. - Wow, that's so incredible. They missed a great opportunity though, to have little dinosaurs all over it. - Mm hm. And going extinct? - Yeah. He's going to the moon. That one's going to the moon. Wow. - How high did that go? - To the moon. Look, there's the moon right there. - What's up Levi? - What are you doing with Levi's car, bro? That's the stickers. - That's the stickers. - He's like, just reassuring, that is my car. Full send. Yo. Not the Corolla, no! - Oh, oh. They definitely didn't think it was going to go in the Look at that. - Yo, the guy in the passenger seat probably freaked out because - Dude, what happened to your car, bro? - What happened to your - Oh, he's shooting green fire. - Fire extinguishers put out fire, but they can spread fire? Fire extinguisher flame thrower? - Can we do this? - I want to replicate this at home. Oh, but there's a disclaimer Well, I guess I won't be able to. - Shut up. I'm watching. - Okay. - That's insane. - He had to put something in it right? - Now they're pink. It's a fire gun. - I don't understand the My brain's too dumb. - Here comes literally the I've never seen a YouTuber And I'm totally not biased. - Not biased at all. - You may not have heard of this channel called Mr. Beast, but - I haven't heard of - So watch. That's the guy right there, that's Mr. Beast. That's his brother. That's Carl. And there's our car. So basically, here's We filled my brother's house without telling him. So me and my brother are driving home. He has no idea that we filling it with elephant toothpaste. We're in that truck right there. Mark Rober's in the backyard, Here's what happened. We literally just, we with elephant toothpaste. - We ran like 50 feet of rope, ran it all the way outside and then pulled them all at the same time. This was such a cool video to film. - Look it, the house is just barfing. - It went out the chimney. It broke windows. - There's me and my brother just freaking- Or Mr. Beast and his And if that wasn't cool enough, we're going to wrap this video up with the world record, world's tallest elephant - I wonder who holds that record? What? - Wait, that's not even it. - Oh. That's just his really cool- - That's one of his cool ones. Now this is cool. By the way, huge shout to Mark Rober, thank you for letting us use this stuff. I didn't ask for your permission but I just assume you're okay with it. Watch this. - Look at those kids' faces. He filled up this giant tube with elephant toothpaste Wait for the wide shot. Look at that. - Listen to the sound of it. He could have got more height too, 'cause it shot out the bottom. - Yeah, that's the thing. Yeah. It messed up there. If it would've held, it - Look at the truck. Just instantly get swarmed. Man, imagine if it didn't and all erupted, it probably would've touched the sun. Mark can put a rover on Mars, while also shooting - Or save the planet and - Get you a man that