The freight train industry This tragedy demands future derailments will Even one incident can have community. We've got to We've got to continue that And that march to zero. Derailments can happen in a There's periods of increase railroads from 2011 to While derailments are on the handful of companies are famously Norfolk Southern. Norfolk Southern, Norfolk I saw it. I know how it It was scary. I'd never I think they handled it It was an environmental This was 100% preventable. It was just the perfect conditions gone wild. We've got to change the business model has still How often do trains derail And how can the industry East Palestine? At least three Norfolk derailed since East or spills were reported. Competing railroads like had derailments in 2023 as Berkshire Hathaway's BNSF derail in March. In one case, nearly 5000 spilled into tribal have continued to derail in Derailments are a common they've trended downward small uptick was reported There are roughly 1000 occur within a rail yard. Yard movements are more prone to having these Most of the accidents that because the feds don't I think unless you're up So your statistics might be comfort. The crashes have weighed on companies stock in 2023. If that appears to be higher risk, well, you braking system or more or you might not be chosen At some point they're going Some railroad employees say strategic changes that accidents more likely. I started working on the Chicago Northwestern. Mark Burrows is a former experience. I kind of started out in the consider the the last of actually had conditions. The freight industry used to trade is shrinking as a Jobs in the freight as well. Hiring across all workers to executives is on So to become more Trains got longer, got We got on more and more of attendance policies and all scheduled railroading. In recent years, rail business plans to increase Some call this technique railroading or PSR. PSR is a management strategy is trying to reduce costs. Precision scheduled to take out both capital Which entails maximum of as minimal workers as Probably every class one different model. Most of the major US using this strategic took up the practice in Overall operating ratios for they decreased, which means profits. The average 73in 2011 to 62, and that revenue of about 58% from billion. One example change from PSR. Trains are getting longer We queried the class ones us they are running longer So for instance, one class length of trains increased 2021. There was also us that the percentage of that are over 10,000ft, train, increased from 3% to in 2021. As you're getting two and a lot to contend with. Railroads are going to run on their physical Midwest, you might have a than if you're in a more Neither the industry, neither GAO has been able correlation between safety Palestine. A small crew The lead locomotive had including one trainee. There were also 149 rail When you have a trainee with that actually makes it Every time you can take a making, you know, $80,000 This is an easy way, railroad managers to figure As the industry cuts a potential safety concern. Before a train departs. You need to have a railroad One of the concerns that we have compensated for the staff by having other types those pre-departure checks. And the worry here was that not have the expertise or mechanical staff had. And so they may be missing impact safety. The concern for communities block the grade crossing if That could create negative We talked to officials in they have 22 freight trains town daily. They have a 16,000 foot which blocks 4 to 5 grade Also risky pedestrian or trying to make it across comes that can result in But the stakes in the higher. On February 3rd, 2023. In the evening, an near the Pennsylvania A train derailed, poisoning in that town. And the reason that many checks and balances been eliminated. Federal investigators point train. The hot bearing went safety sensors. The bearing heat detector, detector, measures the train goes by. And if a bearing starts to an alert to the train with When I was running trains, gave us a robo message over responsibility to stop, take whatever corrective Now, in the last several responsibility from the Somebody up in an office in 38 rail cars flew off the Some were filled with Officials at the site saw that could burn wildly out The temperatures were independent expert to the potential for an would shoot harmful gas and community. So our the Ohio EPA recommended a controlled burn and a The explosion sent chemicals contaminating nearby Justice Department It may move percolate down which we cannot easily see. There was easy examples of in many videos, including Vance, where he stirred the of that appeared to be an up. The fact that these in the ground is an insult East Palestine. Those are the challenges stream beds or if soils, may have created a invisible. The environmental calamity residents health and cast a economy. The company has clean up the site and pay If folks in this community in their home, they'll get If folks in this community testing, they'll get it. Even though there was a very EPA. But the way it local community and we environment is clean and chemical state. So more of these operations may go for a In response to this story, total number of accidents derailments. The company on operating ratio. Moving forward. I think in this case, opportunity to a better job situation. They didn't their response to questions And they came in a little catch up mode. And it way. People were living next to The contamination happened So clearly the local impacted short term because like there are long term their society. It shouldn't take a train officials to put together. For now, the industry is new rules. The rail industry committed hotbox detectors across its Again, these are steps that because our business key. Rail infrastructure gets US, but experts believe that must be uncovered in FRA has something called They're also doing studies employee fatigue. They're doing more looking There's a study on going on Also they have a braking doing for quite a while. They should take a look at there are gaps related to Experts also believe the technology to prevent You could have done a do for track failures to train, not because it hit because it's going to hit somewhere east of Columbus. Why wasn't that kind of And what's the cost? Because you didn't do it. These regulations could add industry as it fights to If I were the head of the shorter trains, there'd be conditions. At the very the time they need to There's no room for in the rail industry injured, maimed, killed, situations like East