- What I'm gonna do tonight is I'm gonna try out some jokes, You know, do some jokes. Hopefully they work, and if they don't, then I'll never see y'all Also, I only wrote black material, White people, I didn't so just sit there and take that shit. So I was eating dinner with All right, I won't do those jokes. Learn how to live in the now. A lot of motherfuckers don't What we got going on right A lot of people don't 'cause they livin' they that happened in the concerned about the future, This space is very vacant. It's why a lot of You gotta learn how to You know, a lot of people I met with these big shoulder to shoulder them when we was about to celebrate, it was these three yo, let's kick it, let's go hang out. I'm like, fuck it, let's go kick it, and I was like, I got I'm like, come on, get and I had a Mercedes at the and they was like, nah, And at the time I didn't so I talked to another friend well, they probably didn't 'cause it was a German made car. I did not know that that was a thing. I was like, wow. I hate that I disrespected Then I start thinking, well shit, that shit happened a while ago. Like... I ain't telling them to but motherfucker, shit, we missing out on millions Why did you hold on to Fuck that. That's like me going to and they coming there with a cotton ball, and I go, &quot;Oh no you not I will beat your ass if - So I went to Birmingham, Alabama people and it was all right, I had a good time. I experienced that Southern hospitality, the shows were great, and they put me in a very nice hotel. Very nice, I was very surprised by this. I'll tell you why. I'm from England. All I know about Alabama so I wasn't expecting to I was expecting to be staying in a shack on a swamp run by some guy wearing overalls who referred to me as &quot;Boy!&quot; That's what I was expecting. So I was very surprised by the hotel. I thought, oh, this is lovely. This is very civilized, this is wonderful. I basically treated Alabama the way white people treat You know I'm talking about white people, you turn up in Africa for the They have cars and shoes and shit. That's how I was in Alabama. I was like, wow, they have A lot of black people in Alabama. That shocked me, I was I was like, wow, lot of black people. I got off the plane and I and I ran up to 'em and I was like that, You know, you can leave, right? You don't even have to go - I never had the opportunity to visit a third world country before, but I have been to a Ross Dress for Less. Those bad boys are war torn y'all. I don't know if I'm or giving a donation. I get confused when I go in there. Should I have brought a bag of apples and a box of tissues for the hungry running those children in here? I came in desiring a cheese grater and I'm walking out with a My God. Yo, this dude tried to I was like, oh no, no, no, no, sir. I was like, we're supposed I don't see you, you don't see me. Buy your socks and bounce. We can't do this here. Your love story can't start at Ross. That doesn't sound right does it? - People still having babies and shit. Are you crazy? Are you crazy? That's so crazy to me That's a liability, a baby? What? Shit pop off, you gotta run with a baby. Are you thinking? Look outside, you know? I get like the Facebook I'm like, look at this fucking idiot. Like why would you have a baby right? Like I feel if you got kids, What skills are you bringing to the table? Do you run fast? Fucking crossbow, herbs and spices. Like you gotta have something or you gonna I'm just saying. Shit is crazy. Shit is crazy. It's fucking weird times. Why would you have a baby right now? It's crazy. I suppose in the end, we'll all need something to eat, right? Too dark. I will eat your fucking I will eat your baby in the end times is all I'm saying. Yeah, people be like, oh little toes, I can just eat them! When they say it, it's okay, but when I say it and I mean it from the bottom of my fucking heart, it's a problem? It's a problem? All right, all right. - Little things I miss, you know, being in person with people. Let me tell you something. I'm sick of Zoom, a'ight? I'm sick of Zoom, I'm sick to people on Zoom They don't know how to Couple months ago during the summer, my boy Tracy Morgan calls me up. He's like, &quot;Yo man.&quot; He's like, &quot;Yo, I'm about I'm raising money for people on the front line, man.&quot; I said, &quot;Yo, that's dope.&quot; I said, &quot;What you gonna do?&quot; He's like, &quot;I'm doing a Zoom telethon.&quot; I said, &quot;Yo, that's fire, man. Who you gonna have there?&quot; He was like, &quot;Yo, Imma have Will Smith, I'm gonna have a 50 Cent, Denzel Washington.&quot; I say, &quot;Yo, that's dope.&quot; He was like, &quot;Yo, I want you on it.&quot; I was like, &quot;Oh, I don't know. I'm not that famous yet.&quot; He's like, &quot;Nah, just tell Nobody know the difference.&quot; But it was ill 'cause I imagine Tracy just over there like, &quot;Yo listen, I wanna welcome You on Zoom right now. You got these people on Zoom, I want y'all to welcome, y'all earning money for the You know people for Who we got on here?&quot; &quot;Yo Trace yo what's up man? Yo, this is Will Smith, man. Yo, it's good talking to you.&quot; Yo, how you doing? &quot;Yo, Yo, I'm doing real good, man. Yo you know, we just, we just wrapped. We did the new, the Fresh Prince reunion. I even hooked up with Black Aunt Viv, not the light skinned one.&quot; Yo I seen that, but I'm Yo I'm doing good. No, Will, listen, listen. I watched the Red Table Talk. How you doing papa? How you doing? Yo, you know what? Yo, it's all good. No, I'm just saying, you know, you got be. Yo Trace, don't worry, man, it's all good. It ain't all good. It ain't all good! Yo Chris Rock, what's goin' on? I ain't all good Will, be honest. You know it wasn't no good. It wasn't no good. Your wife out there doing Yo Chris, yo it's fine man. No, it's not. Will, Will, entanglement? Entanglement? What is she, a cat with a ball of yarn? That's what she doin'? Entanglement? - Listen, I'm Nigerian, okay. 100% Nigerian, all right? I was fucking born here, but people question me, Even Nigerians after the show question my Nigerian-ness when I fucking explained it They'd be like, &quot;Godfrey, That's how Nigerians talk. They talk with a face. &quot;We enjoyed your show. You said you are Nigerian. What part?&quot; Because you know what I'm saying? Just because I talk like this. There's a lot of Africans born here. We talk normal, like yo I'm I'm from Nigeria. They want us to be like, hello everybody. I am happy to be here, and they want us to laugh like this. Get the fuck outta here, man. What do you want? Do this too? Fuck. What is your name? Junior. - Sick of explaining shit. I have been talk about my acting. I have been some real shit. Just how people asking about it. I don't know the answers that y'all want. Why they kill you in &quot;Empire&quot;? Motherfucker I don't know. We like &quot;Empire,&quot; that's a good show. Why they kill you? They gonna bring you back? Yes, all that, I dunno. You think if I knew I I'd have showed up to work? I should've knew 'cause I went to the table read and in Hollywood at the table read that's when everybody get a script and I ain't had no script. Yo Taraj, you got a script? Yeah boo. Yo you drip, drip, drip, You got a script? Yeah, I got a script. But I like the role because of what I'm able to do, and I like stepping outside of the comedy to show I got that dramatic side, so I was upset when I died on the show, I was upset and as I was leaving, Terrence Howard tried to I don't wanna talk to this nigga. Now yes, he's one of the that advice would probably no, not right now nigga, I just died. &quot;Deray, what you wanna do, let me explain what you should do because if I was in the same situation, you know what I'm saying? Nigga, you really talk like that? &quot;Yeah, I dunno.&quot; He about to cry. &quot;I ain't about to, 'cause 'Cause every time I do.&quot; &quot;Can you breathe?&quot; &quot;I don't know if I can breathe or not. He came, ask me questions, &quot;Stop doing that.&quot; &quot;Somebody put my voice on They never took my voice off vibrate and sometimes I fade out.&quot; What? What? &quot;Sometimes.&quot; What? Sometimes. - This is what I love about men. Y'all, y'all don't care. It doesn't matter what's y'all can get sexual over anything. I try to run to them for sympathy. I run in the house, they I'm like. They not paying no attention to me. I was like, &quot;Man, I can't naked in the bed with another chick.&quot; It was like, like a record just stopped. Even the dude in the Call of Duty game put his gun down was like &quot;What?&quot; All the zombies is like, &quot;Ah?&quot; My boy's like, &quot;You caught with another chick? Oh, Chaunte, sit down that happened. That is just so sad. I can't believe she did that to you. Was they fully naked? It's okay, tell us everything.&quot; I'm thinking they with me you know, I woke up in the They like, &quot;Nah, fast forward that shit. Get to the part you caught Matter of fact, when you walked in, what position was they actually in?&quot; They like, &quot;Get the fuck outta here. That is just crazy. They were 69in'? That is so fucked up, man. So where was you at? Ah, you was watching? - I'm into that old ghetto sex though. Yeah, I like to just pull They put me in the headlock and huh. Push the bitch into the That's cold as shit. I don't like that boring ass sex. That's why I don't like watching pornos. Black pornos turn me off, 'cause Black people shit Ain't no sheet on the bed, lamp shade leanin', this bitch nail is broke, her knees is ashy, this nigga got on his socks. This is some bullshit. - I'm a big music fan, man. You like music, sir? What's your favorite music? - Hiphop. You lying like a motherfucker. Yo nigga don't even try that shit! You say that like a hostage, &quot;Hip hop.&quot; What about R&amp;B? I'm a R&amp;B head, I'm old school. Old school motherfucker. I'm old school, I grew up. I'm old school, I like shit I grew up, we had fuck tapes. You know what a fuck tape is? Little girl, do you know No you don't, you're like send me the link. Send me a link. A fuck tape is a tape It helps you with your It's like a Fitbit for your dick. You know how long you been in the pussy by what track you on. You like this, &quot;Oh, I'm I'm about to give her the dick-dick! And then your tape would pop, you be fucked up, just but no rhythm. Then it came out with fuck CDs. You know what a fuck CD is? A fuck CD is a fuck tape on the CD. And it was the shit as long in your CD. You have a scratch your CD, that shit will always You right in the groove, you like. Girl You don't wanna stop Whatever bitch. You know you don't like hiphop. You know you a country motherfucker. - Something about that old school boy, when you getting that When I say double E I with a double E and it like sometimes you walking down the street, mindin' your business, thinking you cute, and then outta nowhere your knee say, &quot;Hey, I'ma bitch Imma bend. I'm gonna take a knee right here bitch.&quot; That's a double E zone 'cause you always got a If it ain't your knee, How your teeth get brand And why do dentists think Know you take your car for one thing, then they tell you some That's how the dentist do. You know I go in there, I had a toothache. This shit ain't even real. It's a half a tooth in my head. I come in there, I tell She say, I'm gonna have The tooth over here, this bitch was getting x-rays over here. I said, &quot;Hey, bitch why you on this side?&quot; She said, &quot;I think I see a cavity comin'.&quot; I said, &quot;Well, close 'cause that ain't your And what is it about the dentist that wanna be a hero to your teeth? You go in there, your It's like, &quot;Hey, this Get it out.&quot; This bitch say, &quot;I can save the tooth.&quot; From who bitch? I'm the victim in this situation. Pull the tooth, save the bitch. That's my motto, I live by that. I'm living that double E life, but I'll tell you what, if it ain't your teeth another double E we experience, you laugh a little too hard and you pee. Sometimes, don't be a little bitch, some Don't be a whole lot, just enough to make you smell like R Kelly girlfriend, just a little. But I tell y'all what, it's one double E we be When you get old school, it's a double E that you used to run from, used to hide from, but now you know, you love it don't you? You know the double E. Sleep. Oh, some of you motherfuckers You ever take a nap that lasts so long you gotta get up and get ready for bed? That ever happen to you? I be like &quot;Oh shit! It's almost my bed time. Why ain't y'all wake me up? Y'all know I don't like - Quit it, y'all are I did bring my purse on stage. I did. 'Cause I said, I don't know y'all, okay? I don't know y'all in this life, I am from Harlem, and I got Okay? Just watch it, so now I I am so happy to be in New York honey! Gorgeous, wonderful. I needed it. I live in Los Angeles now I really don't, I really don't, and I know being a New is very cliche, but it's my truth, okay, and I'm a whistleblower if nothing else. It's just little things, you know I'm not an outdoorsy person, and look, I know how science works. Okay, I know that there However, the sun in Los It's different. It really is honey. It's brighter, it's That's a fact. It is, it is! Because I have blackout 'cause I'm a grown woman with stuff to hide, naturally, naturally, and yet every morning I am still awakened, by that one strip of sun, okay? That one strip between the every morning hits my why aren't you hiking? That's it. That's it. And I love old dogs, old It is so true, right? I don't want that dog and starts running in I want the dog that hears the doorbell and it is like, &quot;You gon' get it?&quot; You know what I mean? Like doesn't even lift up, doesn't rise from the bed, and that was this black lab plus it's a hundred so me and this black lab trying to stay in the shade. We were besties, we made a life together, and after 10 minutes two older white women approach, fresh out of a Nancy movie, they come over because you know obviously one of them owns the dog, and they're like, who are you? And they introduce themselves, and their names were Susan and Jan. Oh Palm Springs, take me away. I love it, and we start chit-chatting, and I'm hoping that Susan but they're just friends all right, keep talking, and we're chatting and They are on a vacay, a road trip, and Jan stays with me, she has a because Jan lived in Maui, Hawaii and was on vacation in Palm Springs, and yes, honey, and at one and Jan says to me, dead serious, &quot;Well, I know people go but sometimes I need What? Y'all that is the Jan-nest Listen Jan, you a bad bitch. Hey Jan, I see you, I see you, talking to me like I'm Go on, go on Jan. And then later she goes, she goes, &quot;Well, while I'm on the mainland,&quot; okay pull it back, Jan. Now it's overboard, you're But she's like, &quot;While I was thinking of visiting my Jan, don't give a fuck This is Jan's vacay. Oh my God, I'm trying to I feel like right now I'm a Susan, I'm just along for the But Jan is making the reservations, honey, okay, she is setting you up for success. That is how I feel. And I've been trying to figure out how do I channel Jan? How do I be the Jan I - Now here's the irony, the first person that was my grandmother. Yeah, I'll never forget. I was seven years old. She called me from all the way across her bigass slave plantation of a house. Right? And some of y'all need to understand about being a child in the eighties it is one like when from across the house, you had to go see what they wanted, you couldn't yell back. Right? You couldn't be, &quot;Brian?&quot; You couldn't be like, &quot;What?&quot; That would get you fucked up. And the second thing is home video games was new and there wasn't no saves nigga so and grandma didn't give a fuck how long you was playing Mario Brothers, how far you got, how difficult it was, &quot;Get your ass up here,&quot; right? So she called me from across the house, I passed the sticks, and all she wanted was that she was sitting right beside. Straight power play. And I know I didn't say it out loud, but she heard &quot;Lazy She lost her fucking mind son. All of a sudden, no arthritis, she hopped up outta this chair, she doubled in size like a anime villain, and I'll never forget this moment, it's burned into my brain. She goes, &quot;Nigga! It's about to be some smoke Now something else you need to understand is that all older Black women, they have a glossary of threats that are also riddles. They serve two purposes. One is to confuse the opponent, and the second is to make you sound crazy if you call Child Protective Services. But I'm seven, I don't know riddles. So I just have this look I'm confused. But something else I didn't is that the look of as &quot;Fuck you tryna do bitch?&quot; And that's how she As a direct challenge. She grabbed me under my armpit, hit me with a vicious knee. Boom, did a perfect hip toss. Threw me into the opposite wall. I fucking landed upside down on my head. Now, by this time, all the other kids she was They gathered around nieces, nephews, neighbors, kids, grand babies, we like to see each other get fucked up back then, right? She wanted to set an example. She goes &quot;Now, what did And I know what she wanted. She wanted me to be like, &quot;Don't ever talk back to you Right? And if it was any other day, but it was something deep &quot;Today we fight back.&quot; And she goes &quot;Now what did you learn little nigga?&quot; And I was like, &quot;Well, you had the energy to throw You could have just got Cynthia.&quot; I was in the hospital for two days, and on the third day I was in foster care.