I was thinking.. would it be so good, that we have to travel It would be better if we rather This is Thandi-Khui's (place in Jammu) Sardar Gurmukh Singh and his family used to cultivate Our father used to be a farmer In 1972, Gurmukh Singh ji He drove a local bus in Jammu for many years. He thought of starting something on his own, as During that time, when he used to stop by the Dhabas (Punjabi He loved it so much that he His family members say that, He used make Daal (lentils), Kadhi (curry), Gobi To fulfill his dream, Sardar ji first After learning for a while, in 1981, he opened his In the beginning, the menu was pretty basic.. Daal, Kadhi, Only these. He used to believe, the very reason of Daal and Rajma cooked for 12 -14 The way we cook food in our home with basic In the good old days, the way things that basic technique of This is the famous Daal of Zimidara Dhaba See, it will be cooked for 12 long hours, and Look at the froths.. Though it's winter time, but the This entire place, it's like... Here's pile of woods.. it keeps burning and And this area is seperated by brick-walls And the room is beautiful. I'm getting a vintage That time, mostly trucks used to stop So, the lentils here were As you can see the lentils here, it'll We start the preparation for the lentils This is cooked on a low flame and This is why people prefer our Daal. Though all the dishes are good, but the Daal and There's not a single day, When I start eating, I'm As there are many dishes Infront of Let's leave everything Now, the people of Jammu love this They come here every week And I believe, this is When we taste it once, the Even if we try Daal from anywhere else, we feel The basic main thing is.. see With the warmth of woods, From the Sagla's, the Daal See this 1..2..3 And from here it goes for Yes, it is. From here the Daal goes depending Tempering! Check out the consistency of the daal. This is Kadhi-Pakora (thick gravy My voice is sounding slightly different because But it was an amazing experience. And this is, Kadhi-Pakora. And this is Zimidara Dhanb's Like when people travel on highways.. we always prefer to stop by any The tourists who are Many times, they don't know much about the state And they get dissatisfied by this too. I can say with my experience, all the travelers they are coming here from past 20-25 years. They come every year. Like the previous year, there Every year they come to In the beginning of the year.. on 1st or 2nd They come here every year.. I They shared their experience I love it when people especially Cumin goes into Desi-Ghee (pure Finely chopped onions for tempering. Now it'll get a nice tempering. Here comes chopped garlic and ginger. And tomatoes. With the arrival of tomatoes, the Here comes the spices.. and then, Deggi-Mirch (red capsicum The tempering is ready Daal cooked for 12 hours Amazing! And of course, Hariya This spatula is so heavy. The way he's stirring the spatula in round motion, Look at the consistency. Fresh cream. And some more fresh coriander. Some more Desi-Ghee. A friend of him came to us.. he said that their Sir is I was like.. don't know which chef. When he came, he tried our He also tasted the Kadhi and Daal. When He checked all our dishes But He said, &quot;what's left to Your food is so wonderful So, then he started asking, how much time does it take to Then He asked about Rajma's cooking time. It's boiled here and tempered separately. In Zimidar Dhaba, they have Nawashahr, RS Pura's (town in It's their popular item. If you are a sweet-tooth like me, Fumes coming out of the Gulab-Jamuns. Oh man, I'm salivating. This is the R S Pura's famous This is their Kadhi-Pakora that was being Here comes Rajma. When we used to come from our school, we used to help We couldn't go into Private The responsibilities came on us. And we also couldn't go outside this Man, this Dal-Makhni (buttery lentils) This is a very famous Daal-Makhni. And I can make a 15 And these videos run well too. [sarcasm] This is Kadhi.. again, very popular. I've heard a lot about And today I got the And this is R S Pura's Basanti Rice. And here's Tandoori-Roti. Tandoori Roti is Life! First, take the Kadhi and overload it. Over-fill it, okay ?!? Here comes Kadhi. Bro, it has a thick and dense consistency. And the sourness.. amazing sourness! very strong Kaadhi. Absolutely full of spices! Very strong cumin-flavour. Bro, the gravy is very thick. Amazing, full of flavors! And now comes, Daal-Makhni. I love the way he was stirring-cum-mashing Kind of similar to the way generally Saag (leafy Bro, I've never tried such There,'s one Dhaba in Ludhiana, Up until now, that was my favourite. Whoever amongst you have tried it, must I will not compare both of them But today we have a new Bro, this taste won't come off that easily. Seriously! The Daal is cooked so long that, All the protein, starch and And flavors!! I'll tell you the best part.. It only has the flavour And the Daal is perfectly Basically, it's perfectly delicious! Do come and try this.. and then explain how it tastes.. Because I'm spell-bound.. when did I Singing a line of Punjabi song This is like.. Love in Punjab! Smash the Like button. I'm liking it a lot. Our Bro loved Jammu people and their food.. Now What to say about the taste!! This is my taste exchange. See, they have these also. Because they know the food is So, they have these for us. My Lachha-Parantha (flaky bread) Nice Excuse! Both Harrys give such excuses. It has dominting! Let me tell something honestly, When these guys were saying, I had a doubt.. what would be so good, for which we have to travel It would be better if we make But for me, it's completely worth it. I don't know where you're coming from.. If you're coming from Delhi or Mumbai, Obviously don't come especially for this, But if you're passing by this area, Then do try their Daal-Makhni Now we're in Thanda Khui (place in Jammu), and But the Uncle ji whom hasn't come today. Uncle ji can't see and he He sings songs and talks nicely. So, unfortunately we It wasn't destined for us to meet But we'll definitely So this is Thanda Khui's This is very famous in Jammu. Taste this. This is so.. coarse.. Very dense.. Even chocolate is nothing compared to this. It's the end of the world. It has a very intense caramelized taste.