is life skills two are communication skills in this book that is it includes 500 Pages here then n here then here then ch here again Yes here If you try to stay in here why did you come here there is nothing to be afraid of My family is here, I can stay here, I can live strong, so they don't dare to do anything to me. They don't dare to tell my family what to do, so I don't have to be afraid of you. Yes, this is not good, it's not good. Always cursing people like that. She helps After you left, why don't you take me shopping to buy jewelry? I'm actually an engineer. It's fine to love this girl, but she's the same girl, so the engineer doesn't love me at all. I'll eat dinner. I invite you to eat, Miss Secretary. How about you sit back and eat? Yes, please eat. Hello everyone, I wish everyone a happy new day. Are you still healthy? Thank you everyone for coming to watch the video every morning. The first thing I do is personal hygiene and I will light the stove Fire and boil the corn to eat. This is the sweet corn variety in your country. What kind of corn do you call it?,,?? Eating ripe fruit has a sweet taste and eating hot pot is also delicious, boiled without too much water, but corn can still be used? After a few days, my plants got sick. I must have been lacking fertilizer. I had to fertilize the leaves of the plants in the garden to get this fertilizer. The engineer probably bought it here to fertilize. I will fertilize the whole garden. In order for the plants to grow better, the mature corn must be picked down first. Hey, what are you doing? Hey, are you here? I'm picking up some corn. Come and ask me to visit you to see if my hand still hurts. My hand feels much better. Okay, it's much better now, but it came out from behind my hand There's so much fluid probably because I slept on my side last night so it leaked out. It probably only lasted one night, but this can't be removed during the day, only at night. Because this is the environment during the day . This climate is very dusty. Yes, I'm Loc Ngo. Yes, I'm Loc Ngo. Let me pick up the corn and you can eat it with me. Then let me eat. Yes, that's okay. Let me leave you alone to calm down. I reached upstairs to get it Let's discuss Okay let me let you hold it for me Chi Oh so I'm not going to work today I do I'm here to visit you for a bit so I can sleep but I keep thinking about it and you tease me Oh, I have to come in this morning to see if you've checked my wound and see if it's feeling better. So, were you able to sleep last night? Were you able to sleep last night? I can't sleep. Just close your eyes. When I enter, I see an evil tomb. Yeah, I don't know why What else Yes thc You don't have to think about anything now that I have you to protect you , you can rest assured and stay here to work. I will help you if you have anything, anything you need. I asked you or needed your help, but now like last night I was lying down and I also collected this book that I am most passionate about and like the most, today I bring you this book that includes There are two parts here, let me show you this There are two parts , one is life skills, the other is communication skills. In this book, it has 500 pages. Half of that page will be 250 pages, survival skills. On this side, this is the half of this. from this paragraph then go here these 250 pages turn over and over here it is a communication skill that also helps me communicate better and for example if I meet someone I will talk to them most warmly. than the second one is I can communicate better. And this is the first skill part, which is life skill. For example, this life skill, for example, in life, I encounter many things, for example, many difficult and unstable things, so I should read these things. If you read this book, you will feel happier and more youthful, and your mind will be more refreshed. Just read it until the end of this month. Once you 're done, you'll have to understand the step-by -step process . This skill Now I just try If But if there's anything you don't understand, just ask me so I can forgive you. Yes, I'll send it to you. You can save it and thank you. If you eat it, I'll eat it. Yes, eat it. This corn is sweet. I think this corn is very sweet. Yes , what kind of corn is this? This is a single hybrid sweet corn. But I think it's very sweet and delicious. Yes. This was the other day. HC here. Please remove it for me, please So Where can I buy this now? Do you know where I can buy it? When you buy vegetable seeds, you also have this corn variety. Well, the day after tomorrow, you two can buy it. I'll buy it and bring it back here. If you come, I 'll help you get this corn variety. The second one is to eat and sell the second one. Yes, this is definitely something that people who can afford it also like to eat. Because I also like to eat. Yes, my dear, please eat some more. Okay, I'll finish the fruit. Go ahead, that's all for me to eat Enough I ate one fruit early in the morning so I'll just come in for a bit. I have to go to work now and I'm also busy with work so I'm saying I'm coming here to visit you. Your health is stable like this. I can rest assured. Yes. But if you see me tired and still in pain, I will have to take you to the doctor. Who called you? I didn't know if anyone called you often. Hello, yes, I heard . I'm very far away, sister. Is there something wrong? Yes Yes, now I have to ask her opinion. Yes , as of now, I'm also at her house. Yes, yesterday, she was like that. I didn't return until late last night. I helped her take her home and after I brought her home, I stayed at home to do the housework too. Yes, I came in early this morning. I'm here now. Okay, okay. Don't worry. Yes. Hello. Hai. Call me, Ms. Nham, the mother of the old police officer that I heard about I met Ms. Nham yesterday, but if she hadn't called to inform me, I wouldn't have known that a disaster was happening there. Yes, she was saying that she wanted to make a profit. The first thing to do is to come to the place where I play, the first is to know your house. The second is that I want to ask your opinion whether you agree to let her in or not. I also don't want to let her in. Because I'm afraid of her. When she came in, she knew where her brother lived and caused trash Treat me like before. And now, as far as I know, she's no longer as mean as before because now the one helping her is not the old police officer. Moreover, right now, you are the one who helps me a lot in my housing and business activities in life, so I must have changed my personality, so I told you that I think She is still a good person as she is now I'll open my heart and let her in to see how she treats me. If she has bad intentions, I'll take measures to stop her in time. Yes, that's it. I'll go pick her up and come in. Anyway, I want to thank her for telling you the news. Okay, okay. Then, I'll go now. You 'll just stay here. Because this morning. he also said he had that job but Let me call my subordinates. If any of the subordinates at that project have finished working, it's not done yet. Just let them do it. If you're free, just read this book. Yes, you should refer to it in the afternoon. It's darker. And when you run out of electricity , tell me so I can take it away and help you charge this battery. Now I'm going, I'll pick you up. Yes, I'll take you in. Then say hello to me. Yes. Hey I play Can you come to the door for me? Okay, okay, I'll go home right away. You're just outside the intersection. Yes, I'll be gone for about 10 to 15 minutes. I'm afraid I 'll be gone for a long time. [music] bet yes 153,000 and have a baby 30,000 money because [music ] d [music] this is fresh 20,000 205,000 ma'am [music] Oh I don't know what time it is thanks to this guy he told me to wait 15 minutes to wait in line and still haven't seen him for so long I don't know what he's doing Honey , where have you been? Ah, I pretended to go up there to buy things. Come back here, come back here. Now let's go. Okay. Today the engineer brought a table inside. Remember, I'm probably going to the Coca shack again. Then we have to go in there and see what we're doing in there. Sister, I'm pretending to be a country. Just follow me. Yes. Yes. [Applause] Here, show me here, then stay. Here Yes here you stay in here let's go in there I've been in this place all day long, and I'm sure there's a lady following me so I can go in and see. Honey, I'm home. I'm home with you. Yes, I'm here. Hello. Yes, I'll pick you up. right out there Yes Why did you get hurt yesterday, the thing he hit D V so did you get anything wrong when you came back? I just have a pain in my hand, oh, you don't have any bones, it's okay, I'm fine. What's wrong with your hand like this today? If I didn't run fast, if I hit it, it would've broken, but tomorrow I'm still crying that day. Luckily, a lady passed by and called the engineer so he could come and rescue me. I didn't know that day. What will happen next? I'm not an aunt. I just happened to pass by. I just saw it. I didn't know. You swung it for me to look closely until it appeared. My nephew just called the engineer. Yes, that day she told me. I just know, otherwise I wouldn't have known It's okay if you have something like that. Now I'll buy some food and now let's go cook together. So you and I are here to eat with you today. Yes, come along and cook for me. She's sick . If your hand hurts, I'll cook it so you can marry me. Come here with your hat. Wait until it's hot, then put your shirt on and put it away. Here you go. Come back, I'll give you a little shirt. You and I can make this. CH let me Called her and told her to give her some help Can I put the Vegetables up here ? Well, I'll put them in the basket and put them out. Later, I'll help each other make rice. I'll put this away. Yes, I'll put it away for you. Okay, I'll let you go too. Before, I also knew that I was wrong and I can do nothing for you, so if there's anything, please forgive me. Now my child has gone to work far away, so if there's anything, please forgive me. Yes, sir. What's happened is over, let it go I don't think about anything. Now I have the engineer helping me to have a decent place to live. I don't have to worry about anything anymore. Yes, so where have these children gone? I'm so sad, what's wrong? The engineer's descendants were found, but now I don't know who or how kidnapped them. Now I don't know what happened to the descendants . Where else? C We're asking the police to search now Sister, there are a lot of fish eggs here, chickens have a lot of symptoms. So I have to find help to find my child, but now he's gone to a strange place. If he doesn't see his mother, he won't know if he'll come out. What's wrong? Try to find your child, I'll be very sad. Oh well, I have a place to eat and live here, so I'll stop trying to do business, then try to do business and start my life again. It won't make you suffer less. Yes, fortunately There's an engineer who helped me a lot. He helped me buy a house and land here. Now I have a peaceful life. I just haven't found my child yet . Oh, I've tried, and eventually I'll find it. My dear, yes, well, let's go, what should I do? Hey, honey, two, two, two, please help me solve these problems , sister, Nham. Yes, there's nothing left. Let me know . Just let me figure it out, honey. Yes, my arm hurts Just take a break and let me do it for you. I can still do it with one hand. Oh, it's a little closer. It'll hurt. I'll let you do it. Yes, I can help you. If your arm hurts and you can't do it, just let it go. let's do it C let me and we can finish Thai. My hand hurts so I'll just stay and let Miss L for a bit and then get the knife. Here's the knife. Teacher, what's this for? I'm making barbecue, why did you come here? Where? Just now I saw you going down that road Thu I went to coca's house today, so today I came here to play. I heard that coca had just arrived, so I came to see how she was doing. She didn't work there, so why did she come in here? I'm telling you to come here to visit. I heard that Cao just came back to visit. I came here to see where she went. I've been looking for her for the past few days but I can't find her. I don't know why she left. I have something to talk to you about, please go out there Stand here, stay here so I can go talk to you. Are you related to me? Are you not? I'm just a neighbor. Who is it? Yes, this is the Secretary. I work with the clerk. Is that so? Yes, sir. Oh dear, Yes dear, why do you have to be afraid ? There are so many things. Oh, what's wrong? You have nothing to fear. Just be strong, you don't have to be afraid of them. They're not, we're not living wrongly on our salary. I have nothing to fear in my heart. My family is here, I can stay here and live strong until they don't dare to do anything to me. They don't dare to tell my family what to do, so I don't have to be afraid of you. Yes, but But maybe it's because I'm so gentle or something, but she keeps oppressing me and comes to bully me over and over again, oh my gosh, just leave it alone, the engineer is there to protect you, so don't worry, don't be afraid of this version. No, yeah, I'll just stay here and they'll call me If you open the door, don't open it. Just close the door and don't be afraid. It's okay. Yes, yes. Thank you. Yes, it's okay . If you see people suffering, then if you're in a situation, you'll help. It's so sad. Don't be sad anymore, just come up here with me to make rice and vegetables to eat. Don't be sad anymore, just tell me so gently. Now you have to learn from experience. You can't do anything like that. I told you. Because it's A lot of people have said it even now Co Ca She said Co Ca was the one who actually told me not to do anything and two other people told me then I just came here and then I told her Don't affect my work I don't Okay, what do you mean? Can I misunderstand you? No, I've done a lot of wrong things, but right now, I don't have any proof . Now that I've come here, I'll just let it go. Come in here and cook, I'll see if there's anything wrong, then I'll do it again I'll just apologize to her again. And this time I'll forgive you. Next time you listen to shit like that, I'll have to fire you, but don't understand. Remember me? Oh, I'm going home. Here, let's cook and let me cook some rice. Here, the secretary comes to Coca's house to work. Come here and chop the meat . Why should I be afraid of this secretary? I didn't do anything to her. She has to. I'm afraid you'll be like that. The secretary will come home Here, cut the meat for me and I'll go and you go here and finish the vegetables and make some water. Here, let me cook it. Then I'll go buy some more water because there are three or four of us eating rice. I'm going to go buy some more water here, you don't have to be afraid of me. I'm here. Let me do it for you. It's too painful. Go rest. What can you do? I can't do it. Let's go. I'll go. let's do it. If you have Ms. Nham V, then you I mean , you don't know how to do this. This is cut like this, but you can't do it. Your hand can't do it, cr sign. My hand hurts, so I can't do it . I can't do it, cu. Okay, just do it like I do. Miss , give me a ladle. Is that right? I'm taking it slow. You'll take the water and let me wet my meat. Oh , let's do [music] here . Please let me have it. I'll ask for it Oh, I'm trying to stop talking softly. I'm too harsh. This type of thing can't be gentle . But he's still very gentle. Let's gently tell him to take it easy. He 's in pain. I'll just tell him slowly. It's different, I can do it, I can't do it, but it's painful. Yes, let's cook rice. Let's eat meat. Yes, no. I told you to go, why did you come back? I told you to go, I didn't tell you what to say. Engineer, what do you say? If you're an engineer, if you chase Viet, I'll be nice to you. I didn't say anything. You can't let anyone hear you. You're blind to the kitchen. Yes. Leave it to me. Yes, I can't do that. What's going on now, do you still have to let the engineer serve you or are you pretending to be busy Do you know what time it is? You don't Hurry up like this, it's not good, it's not good Oh my god, you're always cursing people like that You stand V I can't do anything, Ba, so you stand there and dice. Yes [music] C, Miss Dao, please help me with this. My hand hurts. I can't do this. x This is delicious, miss. Yes, delicious. But let me go get the eggs and put them in. Miss, just let him do this, he's pretending, no, his arm is really hurting, he 's wearing a bandage, he's not stupid, he's gentle. He's pretending, this one hurts me. Really, I'll just leave it alone and I'll do it for you I've finished mixing it, now can you stuff it? You can do this. Oh well, you can stuff it and let Ms. Nhat, the vegetables, come up here and wipe this all off. Here, here, here, here, here's a towel, wipe this all off. Be careful, okay? Come on. The engineer said to me again. Yes , ma'am, let me pick up the vegetables. Oh ma'am, the house is almost done, I'll go see what's going on. Hey, go wash this whole place, go here. It hurts. Can I wash it? Is it okay ? It's okay now. Is your house near here? Your house is also near here. Yes, I'm familiar with it, ma'am. It's been a long time since I took the exam, but I just found out that he was beaten normally. You're new. The day he got hurt, you helped him. Oh yeah, yeah , no need to help him. TH Miss, this girl is fake. It's pretending, auntie. It's not pretending, auntie You see, his situation is really difficult, he's poor, he's miserable, can you help me get to the engineer? If I succeed, I'll take you out to eat, buy clothes, and take you shopping for jewelry. Go shopping for clothes. I have this place. The clothes and jewelry are very beautiful. Oh, come on. You can't do that. Now, love has to reach both sides because of the engineer. Whoever you like is up to you. I can't help you with this, Hom Come on, after helping me out, will you take me shopping to buy jewelry? I'm actually an engineer. It's okay to love this girl. She also hurts your child. That's why the engineer does n't love you. C But he can love this girl, it's fine, it's okay, he's just taking advantage of this girl, I'm not sure if there is no such thing as my level of exploitation. If it weren't for this girl, he would have loved her. I already have it, but now that engineer doesn't like it, so I'll do it No matter what, he doesn't like her, he likes this girl, so I can't accept it. That's it. It's up to the engineer, whoever he loves is his business. She's not a brother. She's just a neighbor . Well, they're not even blood brothers, so help me. Help me. Help me. Get this child out of here. He'll come to me. Oh my god, I'm so scared if I don't do that now. Now you're just a gentle person, you're not that person anymore Miss Khiep, that's it, I'm okay with you. Look, you go wash. Go over there and grill it. It won't do anything to harm you. You just keep trying to be the mother. She's pretending. Why is she pretending? Damn it. Come on, auntie, Co was very gentle before. She also did some things to Miss C. Now that I look back, I see that it's the same thing, and I still regret it. You just come over and don't hurt Miss TH. Go wash the vegetables. Oh, let's go, wash his hands I'm sorry, let me wash you again. Hello. Yes, I'm here. Are you free tonight? Let's go hang out a bit. If you have a place to hang out at the bar, Mr. Bar. You just leave it there and I'll give it to you. C, you can't see. Am I on the phone? Are you married? Oh so what time can I go tonight? It's about 8:00. 8:00 We'll meet at the owl's shop. Hey, don't let your wife know, okay? it's dead V before Gi It's 7:00 and he's already gone to work. Ok then you can just come over and play with me. Ok, I'm ok. Ok, if you have any goods, bring them with you. Ok ok. OK, I love you, I love you. Hello, hello today. You still owe me 20 million. You shoot me back. I'm still going tonight. I just finished playing yesterday. Where are you? for you now I don't have any money left tonight I need the money so where are you going to turn it Well let's see Maybe I'll give you a few million in advance a few million and you don't even have to cover the parking fee, how are you doing business? It's just a temporary thing since it's difficult now , so what can I do? Okay, how much can I transfer to my account right away? By the way, you originally used my account number, right? I still use the number 555. Okay, I have to spend a few million tonight. Is there something that can be arranged as much as possible? I have a program tonight, but hey, why don't you go to Hoang village somewhere? I have a good deal. Let me tell you about that guy. That guy is stupid and I'm telling you that he earns more than a hundred. Is that so? Now let me give you a little bit first, then you'll write to me in a few days. Hey , I'll get his money tomorrow. I'll get his money. I won't let you give it to you. Can you keep this a secret? Don't let anyone know. That guy is a rich man in Hai Phong. It's delicious. You're good. I'll grill the meat and skewer it. Is that so, do you have to ask? Yes, sir. It's been a long time. Remember. Yes, I'm sure it's a long way from the restaurant. It's right in the morning . The entrance and exit is a bit far. Yes, it's good I'll pick up yours and you can do it, can't you see I'm busy, Cai I can't pick it up with my hands so I'll give it to your beard . Yes, just let me take the vegetables so I can put them down first. Yes, I'll put them down. Yes, I'll scoop them out for you. Yes, I can cover them. Yes, the vegetables are delicious. Yes, they're fragrant. I 'll let you take care of this, okay? Yes, I'll leave it to you. Well, now that I've finished harvesting, I can sell it and earn some capital. You guys already have it. I'm also trying to harvest it, auntie. The money comes in so that I can give money to the engineer who bought the house and land for my nephew. Well, I'll try. Yes, can you help me? So I can fan it so I can use the fan. Oh, so this is the house. Thu bought it for me. Yes, after he bought it, he moved to this house for me to do business. Tien lives here, Miss. I'm also trying to make money for him, Miss. Well, if we can do it, let's do it. It's better to pretend to be someone, not the favor of someone obeying you I'm so grateful to him . You three are still cooking. [music] Are you almost done cooking? Are you home? Okay, I'm home. Here, I'll hold it. Okay, okay, let me hold it. Please show me that you don't have a dipper, so I bought you a new one. Yes , that's okay. Let everyone finish their work. Go up there and rest. Go up there, your sore arm, go up there and rest. Sit in a chair. Let me fan you. Yes, he goes Okay, okay, let it go, let it go. Yes, that's it. I'm sure if this meat is still nipped, it'll be over, right? Yes, I've cooked it all, sir. Today's meat was marinated very well. I marinated it just right. Okay, that's great. Can I have you too? Yes, please sit down and rest while I do it for you. Are you tired? I'm not. I'm not tired. I'm riding a motorbike now. Sit there, rest, and wait for me to fan the meat. Okay. okay okay I'm scooping some water for you Let's finish this place and then eat rice. Yes, it's almost done. I 'll pick it up for you. That's why the secretary is not good. She only plays with the other C fish, but I'm here, Ms. Vu, you see, yes yes. Okay then I'll leave it to you. I'll take action . I'll call you in a few days. I also have something to do. Please tell me where to go so I can tell you. Let him rest. Okay, let the engineer pick me up. pick up Let's go, let me get the plate so I can open it, pick it up, put it here, put it here. Yes, are you hot? No, I'm not. I'm very cold. Put away the fan, honey. Here's the plate and chopsticks, I've got them. Just leave them for me. Yes. Here, I'll leave it here for the afternoon. Do you have to go to work? I don't. This afternoon, I beg you , can I come to your house this evening? I can't come to your house. I'll finish yelling at you. Please let me go. You two, just take a break. Hey, yes, here it is Let me get you some rice. Yes, I'm here. I'll give it to you. Here, I'll have the rice. Oh, give me some rice. Then, let me go. I'm cooking so many delicious dishes today. I'll be fine in a few days. If you go, he'll take me shopping. Hey, here's your rice. Okay, I'll get you a bowl of rice. My bananas are in the garden out here. The garden out there. Do you still have this garden? have fruit The ones out there, you can chop them up and then bring them to the market to sell. I see that at the district market next week they will be there, miss, this girl's rice is for this girl to eat first, you eat first, you get it. Well, I have to go to the Highland Market, whichever is easier to sell? If I'm free that day, I'll come home from work and if I still have time, I'll pick you up. If not, then you can go on your own. Let's go. Yes, that's it Everyone, let's eat, let's eat. Okay, let's eat. Let's eat. Everyone, let's eat. Let's eat. I'll invite you to dinner. Let's eat. Let's eat . Let's eat. Please invite me to eat. Please invite me to eat. Secretary What should I do? Sit V and eat . Yes, please eat. Try my grilled meat. Okay, okay . Okay, okay, let me eat. Do you have g? Yes, yes, do you? Can you pick it up? Can you pick it up? Take it and then touch it. Your niece can eat it . Eat it. It's delicious. Here you go. Eat it. Eat it so you don't have to worry. Eat it, Miss. Eat it. Yes, I'll give you a little more. Tho, I'll do it . It's too hard , sister. Yes, let's go, yes