amna: The ongoing war in Ukraine has impacted tens of millions of people including Russians who have Ukrainian relatives. Cap wise recently spent a day with a Russian artist whose life took a dramatic turn after the war broke out in 2022. Her report is part of our arts and culture series, campus. -- Canas. &gt;&gt; The walk is a long way from home. Born and raised in a city on the outskirts of Moscow. Today, he is an internationally recognized mental sculptor who spent a lot of time over the past 20 years working with forges and fire. His craft requires patience and speed. After the metal is hot enough, he is less that she has less than one minute to shape it. &gt;&gt; I studied to become an artist . After I tried working with metal, I realized this is the material I would &gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; Use my entire life. His intricate works which can be found among other places on the streets of Russia and in a Memphis museum may look like they were cast from moments but they are all hand forged. Seamless welds and carefully placed rivets hold together the individual pieces are each sculpture. &gt;&gt; I simply consider myself first and artist and only then a blacksmith. I don't want to prove anything to explain anything with my art. First and foremost, this is my world and then people connect to it and understand something, find something of their own in it, draw their own things. My art allows people to fantasize. &gt;&gt; Very huge metal. &gt;&gt; The distinctive approach to metal art has been sought after, taking him from Russia to international museums, art schools, and professional workshops where he has been invited to cheat -- teach and artistic competitions where he received recognitions and awards. For the last 2.5 years, bend and this workshop has been his life and his refuge. He and his wife were also Russian and arrived in the U.S. In mid February 2022 to teach at blacksmithing events. &gt;&gt; We were planning to spend about three months and then Russia invaded Ukraine at the end of February. And we realized we are not able to go back to Russia. &gt;&gt; Going back, they say, would have put him, who spent a lot of time with family in Ukraine when he was younger and opposes the Russian government at risk of jail and -- or worse. &gt;&gt; When the war broke out, it cut through everything and completely broke me because I spent half of my life in Ukraine. My mother is Ukrainian. It was already an extreme point with crimea and of course eventually, the war. &gt;&gt; After Russia seized crimea from Ukraine a decade ago, he joined protests and with a project celebrating the annexation. How were you impacted as an artist by your political views, by your opposition to the government? &gt;&gt; I was cut off everywhere. I was not accepted into competitions and I was not accepted to the union of artists of Russia. There was a block on me everywhere. &gt;&gt;'S opposition has also come through in his art including a series of haunting soldier sculptures he began making in 2012 with his brother who was also a metal artist called the leaves cover the war. In the works were created with old metal they found in world War II battlefields in Russia. &gt;&gt; This was the main idea of our works, to show all the horrors of the war and that it is the most horrible thing that can happen to someone and in fact the world. &gt;&gt; The turmoil in their own lives following the outbreak of the war is fading day by day as the couple have adjusted to their new life in bend where a community of fellow artists and blacksmiths have been offering support. Once an essential craft, today, they are estimated to be only 2500 professional blacksmiths in the U.S. And one of them is Joe Elliott. &gt;&gt; He is going to be influencing the world of metalworking for a very long time to come. &gt;&gt; Elliott, who has been a blacksmith for the past 40 years, first met him at a workshop. &gt;&gt; We made a praying mantis and I remember him rolling out the drawing and we taped it to the board and it was the drawing itself which dropped. &gt;&gt; Now, we see each check -- they see each other just about every day. He owns the forged business where he has been working and they often collaborate. Earlier this year, Elliott worked with several other local artists on a life-size eagle, now on permanent display at the high desert museum in bend. &gt;&gt; Having him in the shop puts new wind in my sales but Anton has brought to me this whole other way of looking at metal, coming up with a substantial piece by lots of little pieces. I am fascinated by it. &gt;&gt; He has also been learning from Elliott who was -- with encouraged him to explore new art forms like jewelry. Some of those pieces and others are now for sale at the workshop. Online and will be shown at upcoming art shows by the couple who are now focused on the future. Their application for permanent asylum in the U.S. Was recently approved. For the pbs news hour, I am in bend, Oregon.