When Hitler triumphed in the summer of 1940, Acclaimed by the Germans. His people take him Endowed with extraordinary intelligence. Only it's a picture The myth of Hitler who is It's the Fuhrer who knows everything, Of which light in the office This is the exact opposite of reality. Hitler is a dilettante, It's someone It's someone who can't stand And long-winded and unable Hitler does not work. In fact, Hitler likes Like an artist who hovers A handful of employees Their name is Joseph Goebbels, Or Albert Speer. Hitler took more than 15 years To say today that it is a good He surrounds himself very well People who brought him every time Who are these men What is each person's role? Around the Fuhrer there is First of all, The only ones who have Among his faithful, was constituted Whose first character He's an ogre who doesn't think Bulimic, opportunist, drug addict, He loves luxury and extravagance. The second, Joseph Goebbels, His leg disability makes him complex. He avenges himself by a radical hatred. He lives only through his idol, Hitler. The third, Heinrich Himmler, Cold, stubborn, meticulous. A smooth man who will become By organizing what The final solution. The second circle is composed Who join Hitler When he comes to power Among them, Albert Speer Under the features He is actually a great manipulator, who shares the dreams Ready to do anything to become Finally, at the bottom of the scale, Third Reich officials, who commit the crimes Like Rudolf Hoess, the commander Totally cold and contemptuous. This father, In a house on the edge of the camp, Organize the extermination At his side, Dr. Josef Mengele, He is in charge He embodies the cruelty of the Nazis. Without pity for his victims, This SS doctor proceeds Including on children. Without them, the worst crimes To please Hitler, around Hitler, It's even a mode of operation Encouraged moreover by Hitler, Competition and emulation. Hitler, still unknown, Will recruit his accomplices In a troubled Germany. The vanquished of the Only have one army left So everywhere, former soldiers constitute The country is afraid of rocking In this procession, a small group from the south The swastika. It's called the National Socialist Party Born in Munich, this small party attracts In the front row of the spectators, little army employee, He is only its 55e member. This veteran of 14-18, Experienced battles on the front. To the rank of simple Corporal. Since the defeat, he no longer thinks Hitler wins quickly By speaking in He denounces the humiliations But his ways are Arranged in this This is his first office. He writes his speeches To have more echo, More prestigious representatives. In the fall of 1922, He feels he has found Hitler was really full of joy &quot;You see, there we have someone That is propaganda that we need. He's someone we absolutely must have The new recruit has a certain panache. Hermann Goering, 27, was a fighter pilot In combat in the sky, It shot down 21 planes. Hermann Goring was even decorated for The military's highest honor. They were practically the only heroes We made postcards Was more or less aware And that's why Goring was With decorations, it's really After the war, like the aviation He is unemployed. But in Hitler's eyes, He has connections in high places. Goering brought him his prestige The flying ace married Karine von Fock is from They met in The couple frequent the aristocracy Hitler needs donors Upon joining the party, Goering is immediately propelled Called SA. Less than a year later, in Munich, The Nazi Party wants to take During this November 1923 putsch, A gunfight breaks out between There are 16 dead. For the Nazis, it is a total failure. Hitler is locked up for 8 months His party is dissolved. In cell, he writes Mein Kampf, In French, Mon combat. Seriously shot, He is inadmissible He needs to be operated on and he is being treated. He becomes addicted to drugs. Goering, takes refuge in Stockholm, Without profession, without future, He has bouts of violence. It gives him a mental breakdown, And from the moment it becomes It was his wife who, at that time, Prefer to put him in an asylum Goering, makes several stays Around Stockholm. According to his confidential medical records, He was admitted for Goering is portrayed as He explains his mental disorders, Because he sees himself as But the following year, Thanks to the election An amnesty has just been proclaimed. He is allowed to return Without his fuhrer, Goering is nothing. He hopes to regain his place But the current is no longer flowing Hitler at first was not so Because now he disposes So Goering reminds Hitler, The services he rendered her. He said to her: &quot;I have lost everything, I have always been your So now it's up to you to tell me Hitler needs dedicated men, And he finds her a new place. Goering is no longer But he must conquer He will struggle to regain his rank. He did not succeed until 1928, The German Parliament, elected from among In 1932, he even became The second accomplice Hitler recruits, Sees his career in Nazism Hitler begins by entrusting A very delicate mission. He sends her to Berlin, With its 4 million inhabitants, It was at the time the most It is made up of huge suburbs It is nicknamed &quot;Red Berlin&quot;, because the communists Hitler launches a huge challenge, To this lame little man. Making Nazis First And the Fuhrer knows he can He is a man in search He is hungry for recognition. That he considers to be a man And towards which he develops It is in With regard to Hitler whose friendly gestures, Goebbels owes everything to Hitler, Because until they meet, his life Suffered an illness Goebbels is disabled in the leg. He is ashamed of it. During the World War One, To explain his infirmity, He hides his handicap by Saying &quot;I was hurt during the Great But he didn't fight Simply because he Doctor of Literature from the University, Unsuccessful writer, He couldn't find a job Goebbels worked 9 months Before resigning. Only Hitler gives meaning to his life. So he is no more He is no longer the brave little writer It is now For an area that is Who is that of Upon his arrival in Berlin, the new chef, find only a hundred Everything is to be built. Goebbels begins The Angriff, the attack in French. And to make the Nazis talk, He chooses a radical strategy, Stir up hatred. Less than a week Goebbels sends his big arms to challenge Violent fights break out. Mass arrests take place. Police Ban Nazi Party But no matter for Goebbels. The movement feeds on scandal. In this violent climate, In 1930, a young activist, Was stabbed to death In the presence of Hitler and Goering, His funeral with great pomp, Provide an opportunity for a demonstration And Goebbels keeps throwing Did he really deserve this death? That he had courage This young German worker, right, and proud... To reward him, He appoints him chief The third man Does not have the usual profile Who joined Nazism. Heinrich Himmler is a young bourgeois, Obsessed with superiority At the party headquarters in Munich, In this propaganda film Himmler is this young man with glasses. It still appears as At the orders of his boss. The others do not perceive Himmler comes from a good family. Catholic, perfectly He is the son of a Became headmaster of a nothing is missing, He joins the groups Catherine Himmler is The youngest brother This political scientist studies the history The 3 Himmler brothers became Their ideology was close The feeling that the German people This racist discourse advocates Himmler becomes an agricultural engineer. With his wife Marga, Where they want to live in autarky, To protect yourself from the outside world Along with Hitler, Himmler is submissive. But he also has a real In fact, we have since known, that he defended He often obtained Hitler's agreement Himmler, the young bourgeois, But he doesn't like to mingle Who constitute the heart of the party. In Himmler's eyes, these people are, Debrained fools. This is Like Lazio or PSG, In reaction, Himmler therefore created These disciplined men in black, Will form an elite under his authority. The acronym of this unit in German, Consists of two letters, The SS. All must be absolutely They will be the most fanatical When, that evening in 1933, Adolf Hitler is appointed A new time, As his role would require. He doesn't like being forced to For him, it is unthinkable. When he started From a few days, He immediately insisted that this Once in power, The sharing of roles Will have winners and losers. Goebbels does not become As for Goering, he triumphs. Hitler brings him into And no one's gonna hoard In 12 years of power, Just see President of Prussia, Grand Huntsman of the Reich, Air Minister, Marshal of the Empire. A riot of decorations, Who triggers jealousy Joseph Goebbels. Goebbels at the start is enough He describes it very well as being, An unbearable balloon, Puffed up with fatuity, vanity. A vulgar pleasure-seeker, A nouveau riche who wants who struts around Packed with medals It's a puppet in his eyes. Only, Goering is also He installed the dictatorship in 1933. When the Reichstag catches fire Goering, Speaker of the Assembly, Attributes the fire to the communists I will sweep with an iron broom, Everyone who got Exclusively thanks to their I will knock them down! A wave of repression More than 3,000 opponents of Nazism Goering creates a new As early as 1933, the first camp Opponents are subject Goering, earn points Goering has, each time, looking for someone to give a job But Joseph Goebbels ends A tailor-made position. A great ministry The frustrated writer now has the power And ban others. books by jewish writers Are burned in large Like that evening in May 1933, You do well to entrust To the flames. The German man of the future, will not only be But also And to that, He is also a fanatical anti-Semite. When the Nazis came to power, Jews only represent in Germany But Goebbels imagines a Trucks drive through Let's be German My dear compatriots, This morning at 10 a.m. We have started Stores run by Jews And the Nazis deter Goebbels now wants to impose And so that the propaganda He even had it made on purpose This climate he creates in Germany, Is particularly oppressive 5 years old, who lives in Berlin. His father is a Jew, a bookseller I did not understand everything, But I felt the atmosphere. We had received from Goebbels, And I always heard: &quot;The Jews are our misfortune!&quot; It was Hitler's voice And me, I didn't know absolutely Joseph Goebbels monitors everything. theater, cinema, And he's watching the news Goebbels also orchestrates a bet Behind the scenes, Throughout the 1930s, In huge gatherings, filmed as a Hitler is presented to the people The career of Joseph Goebbels But his tormented character Goebbels is completely at ease In situations of distress, There, he is not at ease. He needs sound and fury. The storm for Goebbels, He married Magda in 1931, With as witness of marriage, Their children are used The Goebbels form the family Dear daddy, You already guessed Because you are celebrating your birthday. Helmut! The names of the 6 children, All start with the letter H Magda Goebbels, decorated by the regime, Embody the mother And every year, A short sequence is staged Say, &quot;Dear Daddy.&quot; Quick, say, &quot;Dear Daddy.&quot; Stronger ! We congratulate you, Really... For your birthday... Because you are at work Joseph Goebbels, cultivate this image Like on Christmas Eve 1936, Where he gets filmed in the train To the little Germans Thanks for the short note. You want that ? Only, Reality has nothing to do Goebbels is known for He needs entertainment, he needs As he loves the cinema, As he has a large One of the ways to participate in And say, &quot;Miss He is known to be, I quote, The Babelsberg goat. It's on the studios, near Potsdam, In 1936, Goebbels strikes up a romantic idyll with a Lida Barovaa. Hello... what? We're going on a trip, right? Today ? It's a faux pas, Who will have repercussions To put an end His desperate wife Magda She confides in the friend Adolf Hitler. Hitler has no family, the German family, So when this family starts to fail, Requires him to break this bond there, And stop humiliating Like being a German woman Hitler is so But also for Magda Goebbels, for which he has Let him turn away In the network A newcomer will enjoy And achieve a climb Albert Speer, however, starts from afar, Among the men who join In these images from 1935, Hitler draws, next to him, Stands Albert Speer, 27, A young architect who In his youth, Hitler himself drew While dreaming of The day he would come to power. Hitler and Speer, know each other But they share a common passion Hitler saw through Speer, practically the life he dreamed of. He always said he wanted And Speer adapted Their project was always Hitler noticed Speer, At Berlin airport, On Labor Day which brings together A human tide. Hitler is fascinated by the festivities, which end with where his face crackles The organization is signed This great bourgeois who comes And to whom Goebbels passed It was Goebbels who presented But of course, over time, Goebbels always found very important And of course, in this case, Very quickly, Speer occupies a place Unlike Goebbels, He is the permanent guest Both appreciate Which comes from antiquity. First of all, Speer is the architect Copied from a temple dedicated to Zeus. For party congresses, This esplanade can accommodate Speer then builds to the foot Installed for the exhibition That same year, Hitler will Germania, the future capital This disproportionate building site It's about rebuilding Berlin. Along a 5km avenue, Buildings in Germania will be At the very end, This reserved cupola Will be 16 times bigger Which would still make it today, The largest building in the world. For the people of Berlin, It will be an earthquake. These are 50000 apartments Nearly 200,000 Berliners, Would have needed to be relocated. While there was already And to test the speed Hitler will challenge him. Speer, must build first In just one year. 8000 workers from all over Germany, Work at the same time, day and night. They are building the future To please Hitler, Albert Speer, Deliver the building 2 days Hitler takes possession Supposed to dazzle the ambassadors Its chancellery is With a marble hall, A huge office And galleries twice as big Albert Speer has caught up with all his competitors The proximity of power fascinated him. You have to imagine that Speer And he had already become, One of the advisers Meanwhile, in Munich, One of Hitler's historical accomplices, Himmler, received no ministry. He is just named chief Ready for anything, he will carry out a purge Known as It is one of the many steps Hitler then feared Ernest Rohm. Very popular, he leads the SA, A powerful recognizable Nazi militia While under his command, Himmler supervises Rohm's assassination Even at the cost of blood, If a comrade stands in his way, He sees no inconvenience Even if it represents a great danger. And Himmler emerges as the big winner His organization, the SS, The Black Order no longer has Himmler will be able to do For him, the SS is Of which he managed to convince Hitler. Himmler worships It refers to a dead king He is going to meditate on his grave, And he introduces Hitler, As his successor King Henry I transmitted 1000 years ago, human values For Germany. Himmler wants to build Deeply racist, Where the Germans of pure race, Will be the only masters And so that the blood of the superior race Himmler founded special maternities, Where the SS can drop out Who will be brought up by the regime. It works a bit like You bring your fillies There are stallions who are there, They impregnate your fillies and etc... To found the superior race, The Nazis also want to eliminate Worthless lives. From 1935, in all cinemas, Those terrible propaganda films They show the disabled The film mainly emphasizes What would these patients represent? This woman affected Would cost 153000 mark His three siblings, These epileptics, To manipulate public opinion, One more estimate Would correspond to the financial cost The Nazis want to justify But we must first separate and prevent these Then, from 1939, Real killing programs, Especially the disabled Himmler keeps He also wants these SS I swear here, To Adolf Hitler, Loyalty and bravery. strange ceremonies, Take place in the chapels SS training center With this black sun Baptisms take place Himmler himself The Nazis want to sweep away all the If the Nazis had won, There would have been new parties A new baptism, a new party This is also the Nazi utopia. It's such a big revolution That she had to change everything, everything, including in secret, In the mid-1930s, Hitler Let him share first Hitler himself fixed Said Germany must be ready And to carry out this program, With a 4-year plan leader, Overnight, in 1936, Hermann Goering is propelled Its financial envelope is unlimited. His commands mobilize Firepower The Germans, deprived of an army since Prepare their revenge. My dear compatriots, What is the point I could sum it up The backup And backup Its new functions allow For these birthdays, for example, He receives collectibles, But he has a predilection And precious stones. The corrupt system they put His office sent Like wedding lists, To the various representatives By telling them the Marshal would like Or such and such an object Hermann Goering plays He likes eccentricities, Like posing with a lion cub. Yes, my Caesar. Are you visiting me? Come ! Are you satisfied Caesar? Come on pretty, jump! It's good ! Hitler designates Goering Since Karine's death, His first wife died of cancer. The Germans miss him So his second marriage in Berlin, Is worthy of a crowned head. 30,000 soldiers line the route. Hitler, his witness, Favored his grandiose nuptials Emma and Hermann Goring The official couple of the regime. They increasingly represent Like here, at a reception To receive, Goering had fitted out At the gates of Berlin. Hundreds of works of art There were also many Dieter Wellershoff, At a very young age, he was enlisted And, at the age of 17, He has been for a few months When they were reviewing us, Goering always said, Once I walked past you, Which meant we weren't We had to choose And no mud for that fat man He was grotesque! If he occupies the first Goering is having a hard time The Fuhrer is now Hitler regularly attends Despite his immense exercises Goering has all the trouble 'Cause he knows the plan to prepare Got late. He explains at that moment, to Hitler, You see, Germany However, with a year in advance Hitler orders to go on the attack. He lives in a movie, He lives in a play. He himself is an actor These are deployed cards flags moving forward For Hitler and his accomplices, Entering the war in 1939 The German army seems invincible. After a single year of struggle, Poland, Denmark, Norway, Belgium, The Netherlands, And France are invaded. Half of Europe is collapsing, And the division of the empire between Goebbels depends on an administration, And we realize that colonization, predation, There is an overlap of jurisdictions. And all this creates friction, The great plunder begins. Goering makes Paris He lands in Roam the streets In a palace, the Ritz. Goering came to help himself Matisse, Monet, Cezanne. He seizes hundreds of paintings to The same year, Albert Speer, its architect, He promises to copy the most beautiful For their future Germania. Hitler was very impressed The Champs-Elysees, the Arc de Triomphe. He obviously wanted to reproduce But in dimensions Back in Berlin, Marshal Goering triumphs He directs military operations. And yet, It is of course, from the point of view of the public, From an economics point of view, Because after the few Germany has no more bombs, More ammunition and very few planes. For fear of displeasing Hitler, Goering won't say anything. Boastful, he promises her on the contrary In just 3 weeks. Himmler, he carved out Where he oversees a policy With total coldness. When Hitler gives him back His SS soldiers are already leading Himmler spends his time To justify What he always says to his SS men, It is what it is Like a test. A painful task But he says: &quot;We are morally And he thinks that about He is saying: So that my children There is a whole discourse behind that. From 1939 in Poland, Then from 1941 in the USSR, Nazis experiment with policies Under Himmler's orders, A colonial empire populated by slaves This project involves the death of dozens We are in an imaginary At the same time, in Ukraine, Operate small groups Called Einsatzgruppen. These atrocities follow one another More than a million people In August 1941, Himmler To assess in person He first inspects And attend personally Himmler during a visit to Minsk, Gonna be the witness 100 Jews are executed as an example, And Himmler will faint Himmler is one of the worst anti-Semites A convinced, enraged anti-Semite. It's not out of pity It's just the show for the killer, As unbearable as it may seem, Himmler, as the great leader of the SS, Worries only about trauma You have men And so there are disputes not to their Following the killings in Minsk, Himmler to find the method In 1941, different methods But at the end of the year, Will unify the procedures. He demands the extermination 3 years earlier, Hitler had warned. If the war became global, Still If international Jewish finance, In Europe Had to succeed in rushing the peoples Then the result would not be So the victory of Jewry. On the contrary it will be And it's the start of the war Who finally motivates his decision. The final solution, At this moment, In that year, there are practically For Himmler, It will not be possible By mass shootings. And it is for this reason As an effective remedy Gassing is not introduced On the other hand, the gas chambers It's to spare the killers. There is no more contact with the victims, You don't even see people dying anymore. Himmler then decides All this news A gigantic place that will become And killing centers. A place to which they will be deported, One, it has to be a place Two, it must be well connected And three, let him be endowed Which is extremely fast and efficient. The real railway and central hub It's Auschwitz. Himmler entrusts Auschwitz One of the worst specialists in the camps. His name is Rudolf Hoess. He becomes, at the age of 40, Director of one of the largest These pictures of Auschwitz Are those of the liberation of the camp To direct this vast complex, Heinrich Himmler, had a choice But he chose Rudolf Hoess, A man who has In 1923, Hoess assassinated Who was detained in prison When he will be out of jail, Himmler took him under his wing and finished In the early 1930s, Himmler went to see my grandfather, And suggested he join the SS. Rainer Hoess, is the grandson His father, Hanns, is the most He first got a job He stayed there for 4 years. Then he became head of detention, Then Deputy Director And in 1940, thanks to Himmler, He was named directly When he arrives in To set up camp, Hoess only discovers a small town As well as an old barracks Where he establishes the first place of confinement, And he also spots a villa Hoess take over this house, Of which Polish owners On the second floor, from This bird's eye view of the crematorium The commander settles in the villa The family does not think These photos from the album Their new living environment 70m from the crematorium, The garden, surrounded by a large wall, Becomes the favorite playground It was so big they could Today, it seems that at that time, My grandparents passed Thanks to the concentration camps, With a workforce There is an inmate who serves as a gardener, Inmates who serve as servants who possibly cared There is everything to benefit in any case My grandfather writes &quot;It was heaven.&quot; Like all SS leaders, Hoess is constantly motivated by Himmler, whose arguments have not been For internal use. Most of you know 500 or 1000 corpses. Have stood in these circumstances, And remained worthy, Except for a few cases It has toughened us up! It's a page of glory in our history And never will be again! As early as 1941, Himmler ordered Hoess, Let Auschwitz pass To receive more and more convoys. red brick buildings 3km from this first site, Then begins the construction A gigantic concentration camp, But also a killing center, Where upon their arrival, The deportees are sent Hoess also uses prisoners A whole industrial complex. A large chemical plant is set up. At the cutting edge of technology In particular, it manufactures The set at Auschwitz, that is, It's a permanent construction site From 40 to almost 1945, Auschwitz continues to diversify. After this huge factory, Hoess develops a big project He shares that with Heinrich Himmler, Who made, from 1918, And so they have a common passion. Hoess, supervise the implementation To do research From 1943, the Birkenau camp The new agricultural center is established During the war, Auschwitz became a The population is multiplied by 4. Within the camp, alongside Rudolf Hoess, Another great Nazi criminal also benefits Sons of wealthy industrialists, Conducts medical experiments. Mengele leads there In an official setting, He led it like In the medical services of the camps Nazi doctors proceed Especially on bodies Doctors who were given Who are no longer relegated But to the rank of human materials, On which we will proceed to all To advance medicine The experiments of Doctor Mengele, They require children. In this column of little survivors, In the front row, 2 little sisters Hungarian Jewry, 11 years old at the time. We were little children, old little girls We had no rights But the fierce determination When she lands on In 1944, with the 5 members Eva must, as soon as she gets off the train, To undergo the selection operated by the SS, Who receive the convoys A Nazi was running and shouting in German: &quot;Twins, twins!&quot; He noticed that we were He asked my mother And my mother replied: The Nazi says: &quot;yes&quot;. Immediately, another Nazi pushed my mother She was crying and we were crying. stripped of their belongings, 4 family members If Eva and her sister survive, It is to be used by Every day they are driven It took me a little And it made me at least What was in those injections, We didn't know that at the time. And unfortunately I don't know These injections make And causes a very high fever. The next day, Doctor Mengele He didn't examine me, he just And he said with a laugh, &quot;Too bad she's so young His experiences of Mengele acts of torture, play a strategic role At the very heart of Nazi ideology, There is this idea And everything must be done And allow growth And so we have to try Who allows births They were trying to mate with each other To see if the girl got pregnant. What if she was going to have They wanted to increase Eva and her sister survive. Forever serious attacks 1,100,000 people But from the end of 1941, Hitler and his accomplices Goering, considers that waging the war in is madness. But again, Goering, at first, Was very skeptical about And there, he realizes very quickly that, And that is the rule for Goering. If he made a decision, But Goering was right. Against the U.S.S.R. The German army had not taken The troops are running out. In front of Stalingrad, At that time, the young Dieter, Gone from the Hitler Youth Where he fights in the division The young soldier is only 17 years old. What I learned from adults It was that Goering had He didn't want war. And in a conversation with Hitler, &quot;We don't want to play Hitler replied: &quot;I haven't always played Engaged in multiple battles, The Germans are missing But Hitler does not want to hear anything. He searches in his close guard, A capable accomplice Goering, who once led the industry Hitler, he prefers He chooses his architect, Hitler told him: &quot;You must become Speer said he had no Hitler insisted, saying: So he accepted this mission. Without Speer, the war would not have Reich Minister for Armaments Visiting a large He thanked the workers In the incredible increase Hitler asked him to double But from the start, for Speer, The men are sent to the front, Women have replaced them Propaganda even encouraged them, To give up their previous jobs. This worker was until recently, This one, This one, But it's still not enough To achieve the goals In addition, Speer is responsible for supervising Who must reverse In particular the V1 and V2 missiles, Which have been tested for more than 5 years. The first missiles would be able against all odds, While the country is under bombardment Like here in Hamburg, He manages to double Cannons and tanks In huge factories, where the workers work But his miracle Due to Allied bombings, Town centers were destroyed. And some industrial sites as well. That's when the idea came up, In central Germany, In a region of forests A sprawling project will be The Nazis imagine a network Which crosses from side to side You enter through this vast entrance, The old mine looks like a This maze has 45 bays. It's the biggest where workers assemble But it is also the heart of the system Thousands of deportees came They are locked up there night and day, To work like slaves. Of the 60,000 prisoners in the tunnel, Including more than 2000 French. Albert Speer, will always say to know nothing Who make his miracle possible. Hitler considers him He decorates it. Speer's ambition, Speer succeeded in instrumentalizing For the arms industry. We know that apart from Hitler, It was Speer. 'Cause it always happened Speer's miracle is not enough. The news coming Are more and more catastrophic 200,000 soldiers Goering, wear now His drug use Puffy, glassy-eyed, He feels useless. It's a personal crisis. And this crisis, he tries to calm down Morphine or something. It is at this moment, That we make fun of him more and more. And it is also, not only But it is also Hitler who becomes Yet on the eastern front, When Marshal Goering inspects the All soldiers still have to Among the fighters of this unit, Lies young Dieter. We knew between us But we could just think it, If someone said: He would have been shot. To curb this demotivation, Hitler needs a capable collaborator It's time for the most To come back into the light. Berlin Sports Palace, Goebbels orchestrates He gathered a crowd But also injured He carefully chose The English claim Opposes total war measures The people wouldn't want But surrender! I ask you : It creates an atmosphere Do you want this war Than we can imagine? I ask you : To follow the fuhrer to hell, By accepting even the trials That evening, Goebbels, in a trance, Will accomplish what he deems The most successful of his career. Germany must sacrifice Germany will never capitulate. Goebbels is smart enough, To realize Can be desperate. If victory is possible, It will be thanks to the energy, If defeat is inevitable, With such a racket, Such a crash, such an apocalypse, That at least they will be immortalized His eternal rival, Goering He comes back to the fore. Goebbels then deploys He visits the victims Listen to complaints awards medals, And runs the soup kitchens. He will return fully to the fore, Like some sort of vice Hitler, For the benefit of disaster. Goebbels also expands For all Germans. The men are now And the age of the youngest As the allies approach, New recruits go to the front With the weapons they have at hand. Goebbels named the operation, People's storm. But in Berlin in ruins, where the locals Digging through the trash, One more news In Normandy, the Allies Day by day, the collapse Little Margit, lives hidden in Berlin. To flee the Nazis, his father, a Jew, And from his hiding place in July 1944, The little girl regains hope, My God ! But on July 20, 1944, And you know what I have It was Hitler's voice saying: &quot;Providence saved me!&quot; In this room entirely Hitler miraculously survived Around him, we counted 4 dead whom he visits in the hospital. The attack was organized Who wanted to negotiate with the Allies, This plot against Hitler triggers Of torture and murder. Speer, Himmler, Goring, Goebbels, Now know all that But they will do His accomplices are all Even in the sacrifice of their life. They are now trapped by Hitler, Who has lost his lucidity. In March 1945, he was walking in slow motion. On these propaganda images, He sits in front of a map Who dare not talk about defeat. He dominates them. He shuts them down, he rebuffs them, But in the spring of 1945, He moves little flags This April 20, 1945, the day This is the last time Goering and Himmler parade, apparently all smiles. But that's just an illusion. A few hours later, Goering learns that Hitler is taking Goering leaves for Because at that time, To stay in Berlin is to die. Soviet soldiers In a bunker under Of the three main accomplices, Only Goebbels remains holed up with Hitler. If it leads to suicide, It's not serious. Because Doctor Goebbels, Will have worked on setting In such a way that, The myth of this death, Of its disappearance, will resound. As the empire crumbles, Joseph Goebbels, the fanatic, Address to the Germans, April 21, The moment of truth is approaching I stay in Berlin My wife and my children too, While the city On April 30, 1945 at 3 p.m., According to his last wishes, He designates Joseph Goebbels But Goebbels is not Chancellor When the Soviets arrive They discover the charred bodies With the corpses of their 6 children, that they poisoned With Magda Goebbels, his wife, They agree to say there is no world So they murder their children. It's finish ! All over Germany, Thousands of Anonymous Nazis And commit suicide as a family. Unlike Goebbels, They are ready to negotiate. Himmler and Goering remain Moreover, these are people who Who calculate and who want to survive. Hermann Goering took refuge At the border of Germany Before his death, Hitler sacked him. The Fuhrer had appointed him So on April 23, 1945, Goering told him Where he had offered to replace him. If negotiations I'll be in a better place There he asks Hitler, If you are no longer able It's now mine Hitler considered this telegram And that is why Goering Finally, in May 1945, His wife and daughter Goering is still convinced, That he will be able to negotiate He is a marshal But we tell him that he is going He understands from one minute to the next, That he has no chance Because it is That the Allies asked Hitler was also betrayed The leader of the SS is on the run. Since February 1945, To save his head, Himmler entered To negotiate surrender. He even allowed Saved over 13,000 prisoners Himmler played a double game When he conducted negotiations We notice his disconnection He really believed that the Allies were When he realizes that he is not credible, Himmler hides among simple He wants to drown in the mass, He is finally recognized And the moment it is searched Himmler bites into a cyanide capsule, The poison he kept He dies immediately. killer of the century He wanted to escape Not just running away, But also by committing suicide, To not appear On the same day, in Flensburg, The last responsible Among them are Hitler's protege, The architect and Minister of Armaments. In the summer of 1945, Among the accomplices of the guard Only Goering and Speer On the bottom of the scale, They will answer for their crimes They still think In Nuremberg, on November 20, 1945, The trial of the century begins. These American magistrates, Must judge the 24 greatest All risk the death penalty. And for the first time in history, They will have to answer The crime against humanity. Accused number one is Hermann Goering, Slimmed down, cured of his addiction He feels particularly combative. He was really in great shape He really took this trial Hermann, Wilhem, Goring. From the start of the trial, According to American procedure, The defendants just have to plead But he has prepared a long tirade. Before responding to the court, That I be found guilty The president calls him to order. I inform you that the defendants, Are not authorized You just have to plead On these charges, After him, All defendants will plead Not guilty ! During the trial, He still thinks of escaping the pain He wants to defend the project His idea was practically To justify his fuhrer. But the judges planned Nazi criminals must To the unbearable images filmed Rotated images To bear witness forever to the atrocities During the screening, He understands that his defense is collapsing. Seen the images on the screen, He had very little luck To explain and justify For 12 years in Germany. The chilling testimony of Rudolf Hoess, The commandant of the Auschwitz camp, Will still overwhelm the accused. Of course, prisoners But with a certain method. Until the end, But in Nuremberg, Only one will deny his convictions It is however a Albert Speer, the architect. Hitler and the collapse of his regime, Preparing for a terrible time After this trial, As the manager He claims he would have always taken He even considered assassinating her. Of course, it was grotesque. On October 1, 1946, After 10 months of trial in Nuremberg, Accused Hermann Wilhelm Goering, the international court To death by hanging. 12 defendants are convicted Speer's strategy paid off. He is not condemned Goering doesn't want to be hanged But die like a soldier, Shot by firing squad. The court refuses him. So, ultimate provocation, A few hours before With the complicity of a Goering procures And commits suicide in his cell, Still persuaded to leave He explained that now But in fifty years, We are going to have small statuettes In all apartments Those in charge of Auschwitz, them, Are delivered to the Polish justice. Because the atrocities have Among them, Rudolf Hoess, He is on trial in Warsaw To be hanged in the camp, At the scene of his crimes. It's scary to see It doesn't really express For him, he only did The years go by, In Hitler's close guard, Only one remained alive, And will become master When he comes out of Spandau prison, In the suburbs of Berlin, in 1966, Albert Speer is only 61 years old. Hitler's architect and minister, Attracts media from around the world. After 20 years of detention, He is the only one who can the workings of power When Speer got out of prison, He had already signed to write his memoirs. For 2 years, Albert Speer became His memoirs, written in prison, Are translated into 14 languages and It's a star ! Speer is interviewed on all Why did Hitler Hitler never had any friends. And I said at the Nuremberg trial, That if Hitler had had friends, I was a friend of his. Maybe I realized He keeps showing up who did not know According to his claims, He didn't know anything But in the 70s, Speer is gradually On his involvement in the Holocaust. In particular, we know Which he visited in 1943, where more than 200,000 And that he heard Himmler mention If we knew everything He would have been sentenced He was a personality Under a bourgeois mask, He hid his true nature Albert Speer, will escape Hitler's last relative, From a heart attack in 1981. Josef Mengele, the Auschwitz doctor, Nicknamed the Angel of Death, Died in 1979 in Brazil, without ever having been None of these great criminals who has no grave today. Their ashes were scattered, Or their remains To avoid gathering Their traces are gradually disappearing. At the end of this path Without indication, These abandoned ruins, Are those of the house Where all his accomplices