Translator: Cihan Ekmekci My journey away from violent extremism when I denounced racism and left the American white that I had helped build. (Cheers) (Applause) I was just 22 years old at the time, but I had already spent eight years, as one of the earliest and an eventual leader within America's most violent But I wasn't born into hate; in fact, it was quite the opposite. I had a relatively normal childhood. My parents are Italian immigrants who came to the United States and settled on the South Side of Chicago, where they eventually met and opened a small beauty shop. Right after I was born, They struggled to survive with raising often working seven days a week, 14 hours a day, taking on second and third jobs And quality time with my parents Even though I knew growing up, I felt abandoned. I was lonely, and I started to withdraw, and then I started to resent my parents And as I was growing up, I started to act out to try And one day, when I was 14, I was standing in an alley, and a man who was twice my age, came up to me, and he snatched the joint from my lips. Then he put his hand on my shoulder, and he said, &quot;That's what the communists to keep you docile.&quot; I was 14 years old, I'd been trading baseball cards I didn't really know what a Jew was. (Laughter) It's true. And the only communist that I knew in my favorite &quot;Rocky&quot; movie. (Laughter) And since I'm here I can reveal that I did not even know (Laughter) Dead serious. But it was as if this man in this alley For 14 years, I'd felt I had low self-esteem. And frankly, I didn't know or what my purpose was. I was lost. And overnight, because this man and I had grabbed onto that lifeline I had gone from &quot;Joanie Loves Chachi&quot; to full-blown Nazi. Overnight. I started to listen to the rhetoric and believe it. I started to watch very closely would target vulnerable young people and then draw them in that were broken. And then I started to recruit, myself. I started to do that by making And soon, I became the leader that was led by that man in that alley who recruited me that day, who was America's first neo-Nazi skinhead For the next eight years, I believed the lies that I had been fed. And though I saw I didn't hesitate to blame for what I thought was a white, being promoted by them I blamed people of color for the crime and violence completely neglecting the fact on a daily basis, and that in many cases, it was white supremacists into the inner cities. And I blamed immigrants for taking jobs from white Americans, completely neglecting the fact that my parents who struggled to survive, despite not getting help For the next eight years, I saw friends die, I saw others go to prison on countless victims I heard horrific stories who'd been brutally raped by the very men And I myself committed acts solely for the color of their skin, who they loved, or the god that they prayed to. I stockpiled weapons for what I thought And 25 years ago, I wrote that found its way and partially inspired to walk into a sacred church and senselessly massacre But then my life changed. At 19 years old, I met a girl who didn't have a racist bone in her body, and I fell in love with her. And at 19, we got married, and we had our first son. And when I held my son in my arms not only did I reconnect at 14 years old, but it also began to challenge the very important things that drew me identity, community, and purpose - things that I had been And now, I struggled Was I this neo-Nazi hatemonger? Or was I a caring father and husband? Was my community the one to boost my own ego because I felt self-hatred for myself Or was it the one Was my purpose to scorch the earth? Or was it to make it And suddenly, like a ton of bricks hit me, I became very confused with who I'd been And if only I'd been brave enough to understand what the struggle was then maybe tragedy Instead, I did compromise. I took myself off the streets because I was nervous that maybe and they would have to fend So I stepped back as a leader, and instead, I opened a record store that I was going to sell because I was importing it in from Europe. But I knew that if I was just the community would not So I decided I was going to also like punk rock and heavy metal and hip-hop. And while the white power music was 75% of my gross revenue - because people were driving in from the only store that was selling it - I also had customers come in And eventually, they started One day, a young black teen came in, and he was visibly upset. And I decided to ask him what was wrong. And he told me that his mother And suddenly, this young black teenager who I'd never had a meaningful I was able to connect with because my own mother and I could feel his pain. On another occasion, a gay couple and it was undeniable to me in the same profound ways And suddenly, I couldn't rationalize that I had in my head. I decided to pull the white power when I became too embarrassed And of course, the store so I had to close it. At that same time, I lost I used it as an opportunity to walk away from the movement that I'd been the only identity, community, and purpose So I had nobody. I lost my livelihood I didn't have a great relationship And my wife and children left me because I hadn't left the movement And suddenly, I didn't know who I was again, or where I fit in, or what my purpose was supposed to be. I was miserable inside, and I often woke up in the morning wishing that I hadn't. About five years in, one of the few friends that I had and she came to me and she said, &quot;You need to do something And she suggested that I go at a company called IBM. Yeah, I thought she was crazy, too. (Laughter) Here I was, a closeted ex-Nazi I didn't go to college. I'd been kicked out of multiple I didn't even own a computer. But I went in, and somehow, miraculously, I got the job. And then I became terrified to learn that they'd actually be putting me the same one I got kicked out of twice - to install their computers. This was a high school against students, against faculty; where I had protested out in front and even had a sit-in in the cafeteria to try and demand a white student union. And of course, as karma would have it, within the first couple of hours, who walks right by me the tough black security guard that got me kicked out the second time and led out in handcuffs from the school. He didn't recognize me, but I saw him, and I didn't know what to do. I was frozen; I was this grown man now, and I was sweating, and I was trembling. But I decided I had to do something. And I decided I needed to suffer because for five years I'd tried to make new friends and I wouldn't admit it because I was afraid of being judged the same way I had judged other people. Well, I decided I was going to chase probably not the smartest (Laughter) But when I found him, and I tapped him on the shoulder. And when he turned around, he took a step back because he was afraid. And I didn't know what to say. Finally, the words came out of my mouth, &quot;I'm sorry.&quot; And he embraced me, and he forgave me. And he encouraged me to forgive myself. He recognized that it wasn't the story who was going to just He knew that this was the story who was searching for identity, and then hit a wall and was unable to find it and went down a dark path. And he made me promise one thing - that I would tell my story That was 18 years ago, and I've been doing it ever since. (Applause) You might be asking yourself right now: How does a good kid end up going down such a dark path? One word: potholes. That's right, potholes. I had a lot of potholes when I was a kid. We all had them - you know, the things in life that we hit that invariably just kind and if they remain unresolved or untreated or not dealt with, sometimes we can get dangerously lost Potholes can be things like trauma, abuse, unemployment, neglect, untreated mental health conditions, even privilege. And if we hit enough potholes and we don't have the resources or to pull us out, well, sometimes good people One such person Darrell is from Upstate New York. He had read my memoir, and he was really upset about the ending. You see, I'd gotten out of the movement, and he was still in. And he emailed me, and he said, &quot;I didn't really like the way And I said, &quot;Well, I'm sorry.&quot; (Laughter) &quot;But if you want to talk about it, And after a couple of weeks I learned he was a 31-year-old and was really angry about to kill Muslims. And one day, on the phone, he told me that he had seen and that all he wanted to do I flew to Buffalo the next day, and I sat down with Darrell, and I asked him, &quot;Have you ever met And he said, &quot;No! Why the hell would I want to do that? They're evil. I don't want I said, &quot;OK.&quot; So I excused myself, and I took my phone out in the bathroom, and I googled the local mosque. I called them very quietly and I said, &quot;Excuse me, I have a Christian man who would really love to learn more (Laughter) &quot;Do you mind if we stop by?&quot; Well, it took some convincing but, finally, we got there. And when I knocked on the door, the imam said he only had because he was preparing I said, &quot;We'll take it.&quot; We went in, and two and a half hours later, and, very strangely, bonding (Laughter) I don't know what it was about, but that's what happened. And I'm happy to say now you can often find them having lunch together. (Applause) You see, it's our disconnection Hatred is born of ignorance. Fear is its father, When we don't understand something, and if we keep ourselves from it, that fear grows, and sometimes Since I've left the movement, disengage from extremist movements, (Applause) ... to even jihadist groups. And the way I do that not by debating them, not by even telling them they're wrong - even though, boy, I want to sometimes. I don't do that. Instead, I don't push them away. I draw them in closer, and I listen very closely and then I begin to fill them in. I try to make people more resilient, more self-confident, more able to have skills so that they don't have the other that they've never met. I'd like to just leave you Of all the people I've worked with, One, they became extremists because they wanted to belong, and second, what brought them out was receiving compassion from the people when they least deserved it. (Applause) And they were the people So I would like go out there today, tomorrow - find somebody that you think and give it to them. Because I guarantee you, they're the ones who need it the most. Thank you very much. (Applause) (Cheering)