zI would like to speak today a message that I'm What To Do.&quot; Come on somebody, amen. I want you This is not a message that will apply to every plans. I believe God wants us to have strategies. are doing and the future of our life. But there are circumstances where we find ourselves where situation. And where we don't have wisdom, we have we are as Christians, people of faith. Now some Meaning, they don't want to work, they don't want want to exercise budget. They're like, I'm just We must practice wisdom. The Bible doesn't just not brush our teeth, not take a shower and just structure in our life, have discipline in our our husbands, raise our children. But there everything right and everything good, and you find just don't know what to do, and that's exactly Jehoshaphat was a good King. He was a good man. meaning that he had a good army. Jehosaphat was going for him. No. He was a good, mighty man. But decided to have a coalition and come against him going to share with you four things to do when out your phone, pull out your notebook. If you but also take notes. We are here to receive faith this message is going to come in one ear right now man I know what to do. I just don't want to do I don't know what to do. Maybe one day you will be I can tell you I have paid a visit to this verse in my life, where for a short time I felt what that I would go to, camp there for a little bit with you today. What do you do when you don't know assemble. When you are under attack, assemble with your but mostly it will be your spiritual family. I says in verse four. &quot;So Judah gathered together.&quot; the second sanctuary, say, &quot;together, to ask help it says, &quot;Then Jehosaphat stood in the assembly know what to do. They're being attacked yet. It hasn't arrived yet. The plan of the and when he doesn't know what to do, what he people. Now I want you to notice, he doesn't what do we do? He assembles together with a And the Bible says, together Jehosaphat started go to church. Why? Sometimes you'll get an A couple came this morning in the first service And exactly the word that I spoke, I didn't even that was a sermon for us. We're relocating to was like, I hope my sermon didn't make a mess out you apply it. But they said no, this is exactly God can meet you when you come together. Jesus My name, I am among them. The greatest temptation this form. Stay away from believers, stay away I'm going through. And the reason why we come to life is summed up in their latest Instagram an Instagram, this doesn't mean that that our moments. You're not the only one that's battling There's a lot of others of us that come together of snowflakes, but I'm going to give some honor don't be like a snowflake who melts when the feeble and weak. But you put them together, they they close schools. You put them together, feeble, put us together. We become and then your tears become my tears, my joy together. That's why the Bible says in Hebrews together, as a manner of some.&quot; When Moabites, when sickness, when poverty, when addiction comes get away from them. Why? Because look, you're struggling with this addiction. Church Get better and then you come back. You you're the prey. He can't get you when you're in the flock. But the moment you begin to kind of get you know what, I just don't feel good. It's not a I'm kind of sad right now. I'm kind of alone. I'm I'm dealing with this family crisis. You know not right with God, and so I'm just going to stay you become a prey. The predators is after you. all of these people that are coming against you, when you have to fight hard not to miss church. this is when you have to fight hard not to miss a we are weak separate. We're called members. That's the church. I know it's cute and popular, and it not accurate. The word &quot;church&quot; means ekklesia when we assemble. Do you remember a few months the pink chair? And it was assembled in that's not how you sit on the chair. You have then sit on a chair. See all of us separately we assembled. We become an army, no longer just one unit. We're not just a snowflake, we become he assembled. He got together with other people together did not know what to do. But they were not alone, amen. Studies were done. 148 studies So about 34 years. They concluded that social effects of smoking one pack of cigarettes per day. social bonds had 50% increase in longevity when Today being connected socially is more difficult and we think that is being connected socially. zero friend in life, is not going to help you. when you're in a hospital, they won't be at your And so the more we are connected to everyone, the dilemma of the Digital Age. And what that does is Instagram, YouTube, Pinterest, LinkedIn, Facebook. There's threads. Is anybody still on threads? Do is, okay. Mark Zugerberg didn't, didn't work. So more focus in our generation on mental health for and my generation that the generation after me mental crisis than any other generation before Nazis, they didn't fight you know Soviet Union. One of the reasons, one of the reasons is that why we are so isolated is because we think because says in Genesis what scientists confirm now. It done by Claire Young from the National Academy psychological markers across two decades of more socially isolated individuals had increased blood even their waist was larger and inflammation connected. I want to encourage you today that targeted by your enemy. If you don't know what to that place is church. Now, it may not be this but all churches. Not all churches are the same. it doesn't mean all churches are the same, and the is isolation and the other one is accusation. people are bad. And isolation will say, I am to church. Why? Because you need that church and the community. For example, if I take and not to planning to do that, just FYI. But if I do that. finger in a freezer you know or you know I put my body will heal and learn to operate without disconnect yourself from the body of Jesus, will happen is this. The church will recover, you a member, an organ in the bank. You're supposed banks, where they take an organ, they freeze it in the bank. He called you to be an organ in the to be connected. You may say, of course, you're say that and repeat that because I see this in I've never saw this in the story how Jehosaphat hard, don't skip a life group. When life is good, second thing we do when we don't know what to response, not our last resort. Usually we pray the doctor, try this, try that. Oh nothing worked, that. Jehosaphat didn't have a military planning. He first goes together, assembles together gossip. They prayed. They didn't talk about each so we have to pray. Now Jehosaphat, he prayed a say something? There is power in short prayers. you don't even know half of what you're saying. rest of us, we speak plain English. We don't have and some of you men, your prayers are kind of they're still powerful. Your prayer doesn't have a short prayer but it's directed toward God in four things in his prayer. First he praises God is down, in his mind God is still up. And it's a hell you're going through, you always start not I'm sick. You're on the throne. God, You're You are highly exalted and I got fired. So don't How are you doing God? Highly exalted, You're on we're beaten down, don't know what we're doing, God You are a mighty God, big God, a mighty God. to You. And then the second thing Jehoshaphat gifts. The gifts that God gave to Jehosaphat which servants the land with flowing milk and honey. going through the worst situation, do not become person. It's okay to have pessimistic moments, one thing to thank God for. If Jesus had five is that? That's not enough. He says God, thank Father thank You for hearing Me every time that You hear My prayer. In everything, the Bible anything to thank God for, you still can give God I came, I'm alive today. I thank You for the gift job. I thank You for giving me this. You begin to given you. The third thing is you complain. it will be better that you complain in prayer if you complain more in prayer, you become praise, it's okay to complain. If you never you're in trouble. But if you praise Him, if you pity, pity moment, and Jehosahphat did that. He These guys are attacking us. We didn't do anything right. It's okay to have a moment, say God why fair. That's not right. God has a whole Book of tears, questions and doubts. He can handle your to God. And then he complained, complained, finished with complaining. He finished with, sucks. Asking God to help says, God come and fix be how bad your life is. You want your prayer to it. It's okay to have a little bit of me whiny God I don't want to be like this. Could you help my children, everybody and me too. But God help not the one where God changes everything around away, because the Bible says look at how this know what to do,&quot; so this is part of his prayer, know you prayed well. Not when everything is fixed enemies is attacking them. God You are great, treating us so wrong, not fair. God please help a prayer and your focus is shifted, you prayed nothing changed on the outside but something focus came on God because the biggest warfare your circumstances. The Bible says in Philippians So many people, not everyone, but many people mind. Now this is not dealing with chronic normal anxiety we all face just living in this It could be resolved if we do this. Come to God and the Bible says, God says if you give Me your say everything will be solved. He doesn't say I'm God says, I will give you peace and you might the storm. I'll calm your thoughts. I'll calm what we do is we're quickly running to somebody to biblical precedent is this, is that you pray amen. What do you do when you don't know what believers. Number two, talk to God. When you complain and always ask for help. And how do you with peace you didn't have before. Peace is a doesn't have to make sense, that's why the Meaning your understanding says, I don't know why you also didn't know how you were anxious. You're why am I anxious? Anxiety doesn't always make make sense. If peace that passes understanding. and the peace is there, just shh, shh, sit to be okay. Why are you disquietened my soul? for yet I will trust in His countenance. why are you disquietened again? The little going to be okay. Peace doesn't have Number three. God gives promise before Jehosaphat is, Lord You're great. Lord, thank these people are attacking us. Lord, we ask You As he finishes the Bible says, then the Spirit going to pronounce his name because I'll who is the son of somebody son. This is like in one verse. But he's pretty much a Levite from So in the assembly. I want you to notice this. a Facebook prophet or a YouTube apostle. This is but but gathering together. Snowflakes coming unstoppable. They're praying to God. They're not oh we're okay. We don't have any problems. That's the midst of that they're saying, God You're we are needing help. We're going to focus on don't be afraid. Position yourself tomorrow. God's God. It's not your battle but you're still that starts praising God. The whole people if you believe in God you will be established. If nothing changed. God spoke, well what you have always with His hands. Sometimes He works with you a check, do you thank me when you get the So if I give you a check for example, and it's you're like [gasp]. Do you hold on that thanks? cash it first and see if actually he meant it. No, of zeros, more tears. You're like, thank you! three days before you cash the check but you're Because it's there. It's not in your account. It's you have to praise Him. Most of us say, well God you trust God enough to know He's not bluffing, on the wind. A word of the Lord does not return whether God gives you a dream, whether God's heart. I'm not talking about you come up, meeny, verse you want to apply. But the Holy Spirit because you seeing it but because you are already don't understand this, they think well so what the I'm still broke. So what he said it but I'm still my husband hasn't changed. So what that God My child is still doing drugs. You know until we do like Thomas, but God doesn't always work few verses of the Bible and what you're going When I was younger I used to believe on the first why? Because well God made the light on the carefully and I see on the day four God makes what happened on day one? He made the light on the Bible has a contradiction. It's already from Bible. There's a contradiction in my mind because have the sun. God's world, you cannot have the comes from? God said. And then you read later, you Meaning father. He doesn't have kids. The guy, the to have, you're going to be a father before you're world we live in, you can't be walking around Like I mean that's cute and stuff, but it's yourself a father. God calls somebody a father and world, the natural world what begins to happen is comes to Joshua and says, Joshua I give you the The world we live in is you do right things I give you righteousness so you can do right a promise and then gives you the provision. He miracle. He gives you the word and then He does yeah well you know it's just a check. It's not no, no, no, no. You have more faith in a check time that happened with a wonderful couple from car. And we meet with this couple on Sunday after them a promise. And we simply said with my wife, to cry. We didn't give them the keys. Just give car. And I said but we can't actually give you the and change the tires and change the oil. They you would like while you're at it. They're like And so they walked away from our house having a because we promised them. We had what we promised, them an airplane, would be pretty dumb for them But I had a car, and I promised them what I had. make those promises on accident. It doesn't oh sorry changed my mind. They trusted, they and a half later when the car was fixed, they can I submit to you, what if perhaps He goes to because He's working on the promise or sometimes that needs to be worked on. Sometimes it's the one prepare you for that, and so the promise of God, hey the battle is done. Don't worry about it. Jehosaphat understands, before God does His our praise, postpone our joy to &quot;until I see He means what He says. But yeah He said it and I'm When I was 16, in a parking lot of a WinCo store bad youth service. I was made fun of and I decided parents picked us up, and then in a parking lot say few times in my life where I can be very was one of them. And He said, &quot;If you don't quit,&quot; a church that will reach many people. Many hungry I'm 16, I'm insecure. I barely spreche kein the It's difficult. I just moved to Pasco High. At God blessed that teacher. I didn't, I didn't speak that teenager God gives the promise. Now did I see would be next week. It didn't happen next week. It things got hard for me, I got in the car, I drove don't believe You lied to me. I trusted You and I it's not the miracle wasn't ready. I don't think He gives you a promise. Sometimes it could be a a vision. And there's those things that you're just sure, God spoke to you. Hold on to that amen. What do you do when you don't know what to trust in His promise as though it's true because marching is yours. I find this portion of the prophetic word comes, the battle is not yes! You don't have to fight, amen. But tomorrow Can we just stay here and just worship because God that's not safe for me. Like could You go and like with my cameras? No, God says you march tomorrow. tomorrow we march. Today we trust, tomorrow when there's no other way. I think I just made other way or that's the only way is you trust can't just simply say, Lord bless my marriage. to get up and as a wife submit to your husband, as my parents. That's good, but then as a child you but the Bible says, as a parent do not provoke Lord, I believe for breakthrough. Yes, but the That means today I pray, tomorrow I slay. God what. He just begins to lead you to walk by faith. every single area of our life every day. But there we're doing, and we have to do it anyway. I met who has a massive ministry that exploded during do you do it? He said, I don't know. He said I'm The Bible says this about Abraham. It says this in from your family and from your father's house, Don't postpone your obedience It's not my job to make a miracle. It's my job water into wine. It's my job to pour water the Jordan River. It's my job to step into Jordan a thicket. It's my job to offer the sacrifice anxious about is we want to produce a miracle. He's expecting you to make a march. Meaning at this moment. Do what you would do if you would so do that. March forward. But you're uncertain of people are afraid of having children, people our generation because we don't know, the climate change, what's happening in the Middle as Christians we don't live by fear. Fear and to believe in something you cannot see. You choose believe in fear. You know what fear is? The devil what faith is? God will show up in my tomorrow have faith. When you get up in the morning or when these few buttons there. One it says &quot;R&quot; meaning know that it takes same amount of energy to move D. It doesn't take, like in order to go into &quot;D&quot; strength that it takes to move the shifter to &quot;R&quot;. to believe that you're going to fail as it is to some of us are getting up and putting our faith I will die, this sickness will kill me, I'll never never return my call, why, something bad is going your faith in reverse. Meaning you're put in your today to trust in God, to pray and to put your see the salvation of God. Believe you will see the die believing than succeed doubting. I'll rather What are you expecting every day? That's position yourself and He said this, you will see you got to take the step of faith. You got go into You got to do what you know if God is with you you all the details, I got to still take a step of wait for You to do the miracle. Once you do the happen where you meet, miracles happen where you they happen because of prayer but they happen in obedience. That's why Deuteronomy always said, use prayer as an escape from obedience. There's a you got to then slay, then you have to go and faith, then you have to go in and you have to simply pray and pray and pray and not do anything go out and march. That's where fear is challenged. will show up. Now I don't know how, I don't I don't know when. I know who. He'll show up. night she gets up. She was scared that somebody you, you have to go check the house because we, an intruder. Poor husband came down, checked comforted his wife, says honey we're okay. The for 30 years. He already automatically would wonderful wife, and one day he comes up there him. The thief points a gun and says, give me all of course yeah, just don't shoot me. Gives him all he says, sir, you got to meet my wife. She's you finally came. You know Jesus said to a blind What if every day you're putting your faith exactly that? Why does God call us believers? atheists. We believe God exists but we behave He's not going to show up. We're not going to So we pray for it, we don't expect it and what if we fail. It's okay if you fail, I have faith in my God. My faith will they marched with faith. And how you know for what you're still yet about to see. Because doctor's report came good. It's another thing praising God in advance. In advance. And God's That hasn't even come yet. Let's speed that up. In 26. &quot;On the fourth day they assembled in the LORD.&quot; Now this Berachah, for you and I, Now watch this. They named that valley where blessing. Because they came back again there to a worship service. See a valley is not where you would expect a blessing. A trial is not where to tell you today is this. When you have faith in you keep going forward and you don't even know about the future but you know who holds I'm just going to take one step at a time, God What will seem like be your valley will be where to bring the victory in your high place. He can think Tri-Cities is a valley. Oh if I just go and if God is moving you there, God bless you. simply frustrated because you're not sensing place to show up. He just needs a better person, a in the valley. It could be a place of blessing. man I wish I would have not married that person. valley into a victory. He can turn that joker and you're like, man I'm not sure I like this Instead of being grumpy all the time, what if in that area God can bring a breakthrough? Don't be has that for you in Jesus name. Well my goal today why? Because the God that I serve, the God that the shadow of death and because of that we fear a table in front of our enemies, He anoints our me all the days of my life. Not collectors and in Jesus name. And why am I optimistic? Because to assemble. When I don't know what to do, I'm going to listen to God because His Word changes I'm going to obey the last thing He said. And I something bad's going to happen but with faith