Sega is a brand that's overwhelmingly associated The first being that little blue hedgehog console of all time... The Mega Drive, or Genesis if you're in North But we all know Sega were and continues to good, some bad. One console which I place firmly in the good, System. Known well in the UK, Europe and Brazil, but A technologically sound console marred by So let's begin at the beginning.... But possibly not that far back. It's 1940 and Standard Games has just been Irving Bromberg and James Humpert. The trio's original premise was to provide military bases, swollen and expanding from war is good for business, especially those The premise proved successful, providing entertainment time. After the war, the company was renamed to and began to focus on the now occupied shores This was pushed harder when in 1951, the US machines. Service Games began importing these now homeless base to Tokyo, becoming Service Games of Japan. With the new supply of machines the company bases to the gaze of the Japanese public, and merging in 1965 with a company founded Rosen had also found opportunity on Japanese for the Japanese public. Rosen Enterprises and Service Games would of Service Games and Rosen Enterprises and innovative Periscope both for the West and game to cost 25 cents per play. In 1969 Sega was sold to Gulf and Western The company prospered in the 70s and early Japan. Revenues increased to over $100 million by This year would also see the release of Zaxxon, on the home market and weren't blind to the other machines landing in front of television's This eye would soon turn to a full stare given this era, and subsequently, the North American to Bally Manufacturing in 1983. The North American R&amp;D division and Sega Enterprises During this time Sega Enterprises had been now the right moment to bring it to market, speedy development of their own machine. As fate and an eagerness to be first to market and Sega SG-1000 would be released on July Initially the SG was exclusive to Japan, but by Grandstand. Both machines launched for about 15,000 yen, computer version - The SC3000 - with more The Famicom experienced initial technical but the SG-1000 was to all intents and purposes and couldn't keep up with the Nintendo's hardware. The Famicom had horiztonal scrolling, sprites out most competitor consoles in Japan including SG-1000 struggling through on it's Sega exclusive and Sega Galaga. In 1984 Sega would be bought out by Japanese President and CEO, it's business registration This year Sega would attempt to improve some remodeled controllers - much more akin to the ability to play lower cost card games. The console itself was given a make over, SG-1000 II. Accessories such as a keyboard and steering and although it sold, it didn't sell well Rather than throwing in the towel, Sega knew to build on, and saw the increasingly tall leaking. A plan was hatched to create a system with beat Nintendo at their own game. This system would retain backwards compatibility, the Sega Mark III. Released in October 1985, it sported; A Zilog Z80 CPU running at 3.5MHz up to 64 on screen sprites and multi directional A palette of 64 colours with 32 on screen, Screen resolutions up to 256x224 A Texas SN76489 PSG capable sound chip with FM sound, similar to that of the Mega Drive, 8KB of RAM and 16KB of VRAM Capacity for 4 Mega bit cartridges or the early releases such as Enduro Racer and The The hardware is housed in a large solid case, It has two 9 pin controller ports, an AV and and reset buttons and even storage for those This really did beat the Famicom is almost same price as their previous consoles and The only problem was the head start Nintendo The Famicom had now asserted itself as the already offloading on US shores as the remodeled Sega had a big hill to climb, and not much To make matters worse Nintendo had begun making preventing them from publishing games on rival The only Western publishers who would stick This meant that Sega had to rely on their from third parties so they could be sold under This essentially meant third parties could from the developer making a few changes to However, these agreements and the demands through development and early titles witnessed games. Whilst Sega worked on producing games for re-skinning the console for the American market, Their product would be called the Sega Master a budget &quot;Base System&quot; and for it's connotations master. To further tie in with this feeling of strength, &quot;Power Base&quot; a direct retaliation to Nintendo as &quot;The Control Deck&quot;. The system would conform to roughly the same black and with a more pronounced mid section. The changes also meant cartridges from the shame given the Master System was region free region porting in the future. The pads were also re-styled, removing the for a squidgy D-Pad and retaining the simple Damn I get so much nostalgia from these pads. Launching in September 1986 for $200. The base system came with Sega's arcade conversion soon available including the bundled light and a large marketing campaign, the release Entertainment System. In the face of optimism, only 125,000 systems This figure seemed ok when compared to the But stacked up against the NES, it was almost That hill had quickly turned into a mountain. Sega took action to tip the balance including recognising that Nintendo's Mario pack in But even though Alex Kidd in Miracle World pack in title and therefore didn't grab the of the box mascot. By the end of 1987 Nintendo would hold a whopping market. It would seem despite some great games and is the only console where graphics on the the game&quot;, it was just too late to make an Sega sold distribution rights to Tonka Toys, system and helped keep the Master System afloat, tactics including the refusal to distribute the amazing Psycho Fox. Despite having already released the MKIII more time. Adding FM sound as standard and shipping out about $115, identifiable by the omission of But nothing could seemingly penetrate the battlefront. Although a variant of the system was introduced play and designed for installation in hotels. But all was not lost. Sega Enterprises noticed something Nintendo Although the NES had launched in Europe gradually bitten. In the UK, home computers like the Spectrum and like the MSX, an overpriced Japanese machine But this wasn't just a case of national pride. First, we were much more focused on cutting ST, which made the NES look like vintage technology. Now this isn't a problem itself if you appeal point; Nintendo had hugely neglected their it in the hands of Mattel, who seemingly did Not only did they neglect to stock the NES but they did nothing to abate the high price You could pick up a second hand Spectrum for cost somewhere around the PS50 mark. After years of budget computing, the UK just Come late 1987 Sega would give the territory only a couple of months after the NES on UK Having learnt from previous mistakes, Sega's - it wasn't going to fail again. Handing distribution rights to Master Games versed in the UK gaming scene with their Spectrum PS40-PS60, with a sub PS100 price point and The advertising was also aimed purely at being Capitalising on instant load times and the Compared to some of US Gold's attempts on and the Master System's tilemap backgrounds smoother animation than even 16 bit machines. The Master System also had 32 hardware sprites 8 sprites of 4 colours. The advertising showcased these abilities leading to high retail orders from the go. So high in fact that despite every attempt, day. If Nintendo had been on their game, this could as many retailers cancelled their orders leading 360 degree spin into financial turmoil. However, Virgin, keen to grab a piece of Sega took over all European distribution. This restored confidence as advertising continued machine. With a niche established, and consoles stocked started selling and many families were introduced Something of a marvel in a country rooted Eager not to miss an opportunity, many of with Z80 programming on the Spectrum and began These included companies Nintendo hadn't tied Entertainment, the evocative US Gold and Domark, available titles. Whereas the US release witnessed nail upon true here. This was a strange position for European console Usually we'd miss titles that would see a But for Master System owners, the tables were games and accessories were released on Sega's In total North America would see 114 game Most of which were more varied and original it's own exclusives, such as Alf... widely of all time. The console bundles themselves also witnessed Alongside the light gun plus pack and 3D specs games respectively, pack in game bundles would power of a bundled Mascot. Alex Kidd would begin shipping with systems, other regions such as Australia - where the much nostalgia for the little monkey boy sprite Box art also got a little better, shaking which led to some horrific Western recreations The in the card format, and most original consoles accessible by holding Up and buttons 1 &amp; 2 This was a very simple game, but would pave next strategy. Sega would release the Mega Drive in Japan the European Mega Drive in 1990, and with in most regions bar Japan, where the system This iteration was re-positioned at a younger of game boxes - and designed to soak up the In doing so, a number of cost saving measures The internal design was condensed, the card 3D glasses were incompatible - this also led format. The AV out was removed, leaving only an RF Sega has neglected to make any peripherals The reset button was also removed, along with and even the power on BIOS screen, instead into the ROM. Armed with a solid mascot and reduced price the budget console market, whilst it's Mega Marketed by the aptly named Ozisoft, Australia model, expanding Sega's profits and strength Sega's usual trick of incorporating backwards saw the release of the Power Base converter Master System titles on the new 16 bit hardware or fans wishing to upgrade. A revised edition was later released in Europe These were Sega's golden years. The Game Gear - essentially a portable Master performing reasonably well in North American, strengthening the Master System library, given System was incredibly straight forward. The Master Gear Converter even allowed Master Gear hardware. Sega also made a number of significant deals publisher of comic book Asterix. This would see a wave of quality 8 bit titles, only Lucky Dime Caper and 3 Asterix games. The June 1991 release of Sonic the Hedgehog his debut on both the Master System and Game A slower game with more diverse level design, over it's speed laden counterpart. The hog's adoption as the Sega mascot quickly with the blue hedgehog as the new built in game to make it into 8 bits. A slew of conversions trickled out throughout content whilst drooling over 16 bit graphics A brief period of respite occurred in 1993 - dedicated to the console. Sadly it would only last 6 issues before biting But coverage of the console continued here Sure, we didn't see many blockbusters towards Robocop vs Terminator kept the die hard fans hand Mega Drive. Some conversions make such good use of the difference between them and their Mega Drive These games were really where the system shined so endearing to it's fan base. One thing which had been lacking up until and in 1990 the NES actually outsold the UK Teenage Mutant Hero Turtles bundle arrived. However given the game's rather turgid gameplay a short lived balance tip. Sega abandoned the Master System in North North American release - the very same game This was funnily enough, the same year I first user base of over 6 million by 1993 throughout time - the system continued to sell right The same was true in Australia with the system Saturn's release and the Mega Drive taking The final official Western Master System game Travel the World&quot;. Worldwide sales for the Master System are A small fraction of the Entertainment System's But broken down we see that although the Master some 10 million were sold in other regions, This actually tops the 8.5 million NES systems sales actually coming from Asian countries. So although Nintendo dominated the main Japanese just about pipped the post everywhere else. Spurred on, and having learnt the lesson of be further closed by the Mega Drive's 40 million a story for another day. But this isn't the end of the Master System One thing that's excluded from any of these Not a dominant market in the world stage, it's quite a biggun. Released in Brazil in 1989, the Master System TecToy for distribution, who released a number Kidd Bundle as the Master System II. This meant that when the actual MS2 hardware as the Master System III Compact. Various other releases were created including Compact allowing wireless RF transmission. Total Master System sales before the century in this region, leading to a total worldwide TecToy continued developing a number of well 1998 including a pretty awesome take on Street In 2015, it was reported that the Master System Brazil - a level that holds its own against This obviously means that current incarnations Evolution sitting as the latest offering. It incorporates 132 games, although with new cartridge based unit was manufactured in 2003. Since 2000 some 2 million Master System based So that's the Sega Master System. To this day it also continues in a handheld us, and it holds a great deal of nostalgia Most of us consider it to be Sega's rival it tried so hard to be. But the original rival was actually the SG-1000, and the MKIII hardware which allowed Nintendo However you look at it, the Master System Sega to continue their hardware development, highly regarded machine.... When we take a look at the Mega Drive, we'll scales in the opposite direction.