- If you're outfitting your kitchen or looking for gift ideas, with a storage block could Maybe it could even be a bargain. - Or maybe it could be a ripoff. (dramatic music) While they seem like a kitchen essential, most knife sets don't - Today we're gonna give you what we found in our testing and how to put together the best, cheapest knife set possible. - First up, Lisa, with then I'll tell you what we (upbeat music) - Typically, knife blocks of matching cutlery, sometimes or some kitchen shears with Now, you might assume someone wiser has picked That's not always the case. We bought eight knife sets, priced from about $97 to over $700. And to be honest, we didn't love them. And here's why. I did this testing, and on how comfortable the pieces were to use and how well each blade performed. I also looked at how many were essential and how many weren't. And of those extras, how The only way to find out was through all the paces. First, we singled out the the chef's knife, the bread and we put each of them that we use to test Most of the chef's knives were at our preferred and most of those chef The paring knives we tested Many of them were too wide, They actually made it We only really liked two of them, and they actually turned that made our ATK recommended All of the serrated bread They were eight or nine inches. We prefer at least 10 inches I interviewed several and they said they had to be shorter in order to fit in the knife block, and a few admitted that shorter knives were just cheaper to make, So these knives are stumpy. The knife companies also told me that knife block sets are not compiled strictly according to their but to meet price the retailers want the maximum at a really low price. And by the way, that block always counts as one of the pieces. So basically, to meet you're gonna end up with a bunch of lower quality So once we tested those core knives, then we looked at the We sorted through all the extra pieces. Now, the most common of bigger than a paring knife and smaller than a chef's knife. In each set I ran these specialty knives through the same tests as their And shocker, the chef's So since I did the knife block testing, we have separately tested and some of those are pretty good, but in the sets, trust me, these are not the knives So in the end, we actually in these knife sets that weren't by the core three: your chef's knife, your serrated knife, A few sets had the odd boning knife that made removing bones easy, and one had a good pair of shears. But generally, these They weren't worth the money. And a word about storing Now, given that all the you can spend a lot of time pulling out every single one of these trying to find the one that you want. And how many of us don't that are in the block? Honestly, it's overkill. I just have to say this is This is a generic knife set that is standing in for all knife sets. But you know, everything I said about those other knife In the end, our testing that you're much better off That way you only get Now Hannah's gonna show you how to build your own and how to store those (upbeat music) - As Lisa said, we don't like knife sets. We prefer to build our knife by combining the best into an a la carte set. We started by choosing a chef's knife, a pairing knife, This trio can accomplish The chef's knife is a jack of all trades. We designed our testing that someone is going That means we break down a We want it to be nice and We dice onions. We also and we go right down through the stem, which is a really tough test We push 'em really hard in testing so we can be sure they're gonna perform. With a paring knife, around the ways people Hulling a strawberry, peeling an apple, coring a tomato, peeling a We also use them down on the board, so slicing cheese, things like that. Next up, a serrated bread knife. Now these obviously are You know, that's what the teeth are for, to bite down into things. So there's a whole group of things that bread knives excel but also on the other end of the spectrum, delicate and soft things. For example, the skin of a tomato. We also love to slice and it's good at breaking with beautiful even slices. Also chopping chocolate. Chocolate is kind of hard, and crunches through really nicely. We happen to have excellent value picks in each of these categories, a great functional set of knives for around 60 bucks, a fraction This is our ATK recommended from Mercer. There are all different categories but they tend to be more expensive. So today we're focusing The Mercer is a Western style chef's knife with a gently curved triangular blade. It won against a bevy of challengers for its sharp, well-designed blade and comfortable non-slip handle and beat knives that were in our testing. Next up our ATK recommended by Victorinox. We have tested dozens of This little knife has and usually costs between We love its sharp, flexible blade, which is about four inches, shorter than a lot of pairing knives. That gives you a little more control. It makes it nice and agile and precise. Because paring knives are often used up off the cutting board, and we love that about the Victorinox. It also has a nice slim handle. This allows it to become Finally, we have our ATK recommended serrated When we went looking for we tested everything on the market and found that the fewer You also wanted the serrations for a more powerful bite. We also preferred those with The Mercer nailed it beating out super fancy knives. It's been our winner for and usually costs around $20 bucks. Beyond these three knives, You could consider a cleaver, a slicing knife. I am a professional equipment tester. I have a lot of knives, but 99% of the time I'm reaching for one of these three knives. Now, what about knife storage? Because that's the nice It's also tidily contained. We've tested dedicated knife blocks that you can put any knife in, and while we like some of them, they tend to be more expensive. 360, our winner, it rotates. It's beautiful. It's hundreds of dollars. Our best buy is from Schmidt Brothers. It's a little more minimalistic, We also like magnetic knife strips. You have to install something, but they're a very easy, clean Our winner is from Brooklyn Butcher. If you don't wanna spend anything there are a lot of smart solutions. Here are some of our favorite tips that we learned in testing. Two things to think about how easily you can access and how to prevent the or rubbing around, which can dull them. First, you can make a and store them in a drawer. Lisa's had the same cardboard I put my knives uncovered on a sheet pan. You can also wrap the You can throw an elastic around there to secure it if you want to. And thirdly, not related to storage, but do not put your They will actually dull faster. In our opinion, knife With our tried and tested best buy options and these storage tips, to the best, cheapest - For more information on knife sets, building your own knife set, and more reviews, check or go to Americastestkitchen.com. - If you were building your own knife set, which knives would you include? Let us know in the comments. Make sure to like this video We'll see you next time. (upbeat music)