How is the junior It was good. Why would you need a fly? Wow. With beef at $0.68 a I can't blame. A show that takes place Already in the eighties attention to high Could you even imagine was a lot? The average States per pound for If the cost of everything wreck the economy and for American families. Inflation in the US hit a Consumer prices soared year prior, the largest 1981. While wages are keeping up with has been consistent half percent inflation November 2022, inflation are feeling the brunt. Two thirds of workers keeping up with these Part of the misconception I'm only getting a 4% inflation is 7.7, I'm That's not true. So what exactly is Why aren't salaries inflation? Inflation measures, how of goods and services period of time, usually There are a number of fluctuates, but at the economic principles. Supply and demand. More money in people's purchasing power with services and supply prices will go up. The COVID 19 pandemic is good illustration of my At the onset, the world Consumers weren't saving. The government cash. A national payment, pause and other money in Americans started easing, people But at that point, producing as much due to caused by closed and shipping delays. Money supply growing at economy's ability to services causes Record breaking A key inflation. Gauge is sounding alarm big impact in grocery latest UN Global Price reached their highest last month, thanks in logistics. Issues as the pandemic February 2022. Russia's invasion of the pressure, raising increasing supply chain Just like inflation, changes in supply and But for labor, they're demographic factors. So when job the number of people who for a specific job Laurie Whisper is a Willis Towers. Watson she's helped companies strategies. Pretty much everybody's is grounded in the retain employees by Organizations look at labor? What do I have to a given skill set or And that's how I'm going They don't look at the Organizations typically a few years out, so significant adjustments Companies like to wait conditions will be long those changes. How would gave you a raise and your salary? Most organizations do conservative approach to increases. Even a one or increase can represent dollars for an to be good governors of That's part of how they A very important part. Organizations down the a position of feeling or overpaying their people. And they don't want to position where they have worse, cut jobs. Layoffs. You know, just the staff. You see Lyft, It goes on. Us based employers cut October 2022. Technology companies 9600 cuts for a total of far this year, up 162% year. The high tech industry e the highest paying Their salary budgets than anybody else's They were giving greater most other industries. So that's a good real happens when you what others are competitive labor haven't seen anything 1970s. Record inflation has only Still, organizations inflation and the cost determining wages. While economists say inflation, Whisper says I know that's going to be say. As employees, as choices on what we buy power. Companies don't what to buy. As a the cost of living and going to take the inflation and match my budgets, to that, I'd be market pays for Almost That overpayment might things in the future everybody. Like what we're seeing in When the salary increase of the economic stick. They're not very Inflation goes up and Salary increased budgets driven by different What most organizations workers in other ways drive all future economic conditions. For example, when many well, they reward their Profits go up and down, goes up and down. So best suited to reward low inflation and high Employees benefit, but when our buying power of things we bought, did it because we want to Employers also have compensation. The benefits and attracting And some organizations up in different ways. Travel nurse jobs pay what they were getting hospital. But in a lot country, they're seeing as travel nurses in the staffed they're hiring So it's the exact same higher wage. However, that increase in benefits or job Overall, middle income largest impact from Higher earning workers their incomes held up prices. 53% of those per year, compared to than $50,000. The biggest increase in among people with higher people with less high school degree. And as the people in the two year degree where recovery in going back Typically, lower income most during high However, in the past wage workers experienced growth after adjusting middle and high wage On average, wages have the bottom end. But that doesn't mean and lots of people where up. Maybe their market there hasn't been forces Maybe they're in a job been able to change circumstances or their So what would happen if We want wages to go up. We just want them to go sustainable and inflation. In November 2022, Federal the Fed doesn't want to rising wages increasing causing prices to rise. Increasing the demand then leads to higher pressure to increase And once you see it, We get this wage price a 5% raise because they there'll be 5% action makes it a We get 5% inflation, so the next year and we get high inflation rate. The most effective way to inflation is by changing Those who switch jobs March 2022 saw earnings year earlier. Those who So we just fall nearly Another way employees earnings is through cost although those may goes down again. There negotiate for other snacks, child care or paid time off student transportation a location where the or an extended timeline Every organization has a it comes to strategic plans, taking industry, competition, financial, health and For some, that means keep up with inflation. But for the most part, works. And if that's a the employee, to decide Other than treating advantage of them, there The whole key with your is what are you doing so doing the right thing for your people. It's always a good idea opportunities out there you might just find better for you. And as for keeping government and the working on it. Fed country is battling The central bank has will continue to do so control. Meanwhile, in Biden signed the of 2022 into law. The spending package is deficit by more than decade. It's not a fix overnight, but there's