Many of the people in the top 100 are barely breaking even, If you're not playing at and doing well... When I grew up, I always So watching Williams sisters my sister and I, we grew up and so I always wanted to be So I come from Poland, which is I would say my mom and that's how I started become one of the best players I was the first number one junior And kind of all my dreams The perception versus the reality like tennis does look very glam The highest paid this, and these big prize money tournaments... you really don't see the struggle. That was something that... I didn't really understand And then once I got to then my ranking fell to 400. And then that was the time when to playing like the really And I didn't know how I was going I told my coach like there were times like... "Hey, I can't pay you." or "I can't pay for training or "Can you pay for your flight?" And then, "Yo, I got you." When we get to the slam and like when we get to the bigger tournaments. So the structure of tennis is pretty unique in the There's a men's tour: the ATP. There's a women's tour: the WTA. There's four Grand Slams, really independently owned There's the International Tennis Federation which is like the global governing body that governs things like the Olympics and some of the more global And you have this really disjointed structure... When you add it all up, has left and made it something that is not anywhere close to where it should be in relation You'd think the total revenue of tennis The percentage that the players that's also some issue. The tournaments are sharing about 18% of the revenue In many of those other sports, you see a revenue share that is As a player, sometimes it is frustrating because you know that you're the talent and you know that you're bringing this certain level of entertainment to all of these different places and not being compensated for it. Tennis is a sport where And so it... if anything, that revenue share given the fact that people Player A play against Carlos Alcaraz made the most money or the women's tour last year, Who is, by the way, who won an incredible amount And let's asterisk that for a second That's before he pays his own travel, his physios, all the expenses That no athlete in a team sport or other sports, like F1, And if you look at $10 million... how that translates in basketball, the 150th highest paid player And then you look at football, that's 202nd highest salary. In baseball, it's a similar story where it's in the hundreds... out of a 6-700 player community That graphic is like tattooed in my head because it's astonishing to me. There are a lot more players that are struggling than A good friend of mine, Dustin Brown, He literally was living out of his car. He was stringing rackets for the players at the tournament And sometimes the amount that was more than he made in his prize money. And he beat Nadal at Wimbledon. Like, played one of the most epic matches. "Game set and that's Brown." And the pressure always gets Well, if you just won more, you'd be fine. So what's your problem? Well, if you weren't in the two hundreds you'd have nothing to complain about. As opposed to... Hey, wait a second. In all these other global sports... if I'm in the two hundreds, I'm actually well entrenched Why isn't that the case in tennis? It's one of the only sports where Your pay is based on your performance. The way those other sports the players are employees. And so when you're an employee, and part of the problem with tennis working 11 and a half months a year... traveling the globe are treated as independent contractors. I guess people who don't they only make their money And I don't think that I think we should make like I'm fortunate to have, you know... a couple of great sponsors. I'm wearing a watch while I play. Actually, this watch while I play. Also, I'm playing with a Yonex racket, and having a patch on my sleeve I'm sponsored by ASICS They send you a package of clothes to wear at different tournaments. That's based on your ranking and also And if you're 200 in the world, maybe... you know, maybe there's a local company that wants to help you, wants to support you. But if you're outside of top 50... you will have a clothing, the other But it would be touch to have a real source of income outside of a tennis court. And in my particular situation, So, like all of my expenses come out Traveling with a couple of people around the world. You know, you fly always last minute and you sleep in the hotels you eat in restaurants. Those expenses are really, really significant. Maybe a coach a year is around So for hotel, flights all that, it could add up. There's so much emphasis on the Grand Slams because these four times a year, are where you get basically the biggest payout. When you're at the lower rankings or you're trying to break through. Like you kind of have to go everywhere because you need to get points, Points are literally everything. I mean, that's how our rankings And every tournament has and every round has a certain point value. So at the Grand Slams is where you can And the lower level tournaments like the 250s or even like challenger... the lower you drop down, opportunities that you have to make. So it's just back and forth, back and forth, Often times the expenses The sport hasn't kept pace The players and what they generate hasn't kept pace. The protections are non-existent. There's no safety net. Because what happens if you get hurt? What happens if you want to What happens if you want to There's no mechanism for that... other than putting 100% of that burden Fortunately, my parents were able to help me a lot in my career and I'm really thankful to them. If you don't have support, The risk... is that we can... miss out on really unique and amazing talents and people because they can't afford to play. Players like Ons Jabeur... she didn't have those opportunities Frances Tiafoe. I mean, those are players who made it... despite those challenges, What about all the other players that didn't? I'm trying to identify and really get clear on like... how can I make the biggest difference? I feel like if I don't do that or if I don't try, like... I'm wasting... all the things that I've been through and the lessons that I learn. Like I want to pass that on And if I can shape a next I will love that.