So here you have it, a very small which I made based on the of the cheapest impact gun that I I made the CAD for this little design using It's like Solidworks, in fact it was created by the founders other modern CAD software Onshape is built in For me this is a very big deal because I often work in then I also record my screen at the same time so Despite me having a nice laptop this lose my work, and this is of course frustrating. means that I don't have to strain my hardware and On top of this, Onshape has all the features you You can use it even on devices that you don't own because Onshape also adapts its layout based annoying learning curve. It enables simultaneous public library with many different CAD models that Honestly it's a very potent and streamlined for pretty much anything ,and if you want to try it Onshape for free for 6 months. Okay, so that was the of it made somehow. For that I turned to JLCPCB. super low, just 3 cents for 3D printing and just need a giant batch of parts or a giant budget to Something else that I really like is that your file onto the website any time of the day problems with your part someone gets in touch with All of this has been CNC machined in 7075 aluminum, the front engine while unpacking and will never forgive myself for is 3D printed stainless steel. Now, I have quite a aluminum but this is the first time in my life hand and I have to say that I am very impressed. something flimsy and lightweight but, in fact, this it is heavy. Let me just give you an impression of This thing feels like a casting rather than a 3d print So very very impressed with this. But all when it comes to the prototyping and manufacturing materials, surface finishes, tolerances, you name link down in the description as well which you can So that's how I made it. I have to say that I'm very get from an idea to an actual part in your hand versatile and powerful CAD software and rapid at our fingertips. 20 years ago this would be take months it would actually cost a small fortune, aware this video is going to be a follow-up to I explain the working principle and the concept of to use this little prototype to answer some of the Now, I will try to actually put all these parts together but because I have no idea what's going to happen or fall apart who knows, so while I still have Honestly, I'm surprised this question was self-explanatory but apparently it wasn't. It pretty simple question, simple answer so let's that was shown in the previous video is obviously that the vanes might catch onto the ports in engine it's also very easy to imagine how the our little model right here, you can see here we the vane passing by along the ports. The vane is way into the ports and thus cannot catch onto the shown in the last video, the engine gets rotated, but obviously noticing that takes watching the In the last video I have said how the perfectly balanced engine. Many commenters vanes themselves move up and down they create Well I'd like to direct your attention to the Perfectly opposed, in fact, so when one vane When one vane is retracting back into the they create forces of equal magnitude but that the forces cancel each other out. The same have six vanes instead of four. Again, the result is the same because here too we have perfectly opposed vanes which tells us vanes we can distribute them on the rotor so that There was a very high number of vane engine are a point of failure because they're and they will fail, and when the springs fail Honestly, I have absolutely no idea why there were so are not an issue. As you know, we have valve engine out there, 99% of them have valve springs. They're not even a service item, they're not of kilometers and hours of operation while times per minute. Nowadays we have the technology very high-quality springs for all sorts of In the last video I have mentioned how causing them to contact the housing leading to at high RPM because the higher the engine the greater the force with which the vanes are solution I suggested piezoelectric actuators to ensure a no-contact gas seal which would created compartments and would also reduce improved lifespan. Many people responded in cannot be used for this purpose because it a few micrometers, and obviously the vane has a much never said how piezoelectric actuation would handle because it doesn't need to, and that's because work for us. As you can see on our little prototype immediately flings every vane to the maximum that as soon as the engine starts rotating every already, so we don't really need to control the the last 0.001% with piezoelectric actuators or in the vane tips, and then they can create this entire range of motion, but piezoelectric actuation is different solutions for vane movement control. an article about a 400 horsepower vane engine control blade movement. Another example is Poland which incorporates a predetermined track engine operation. This is a simple system that has One of my subscribers also sent me this email incorporating gears to control vane movement, already patented in the past for rotary different ways to control vane movement, of course of application and budget must be discovered Let's imagine a moment when the vane imagine combustion pressure acting on it from vane in its slot and the result is that we get a material fatigue and increased wear, which on the thickness of the vane and on how much point can be delayed far into the future, but ultimately fail. But there are ways around this. it's a rotary vein engine developed by a company a grant in 2003 from the United States Navy to only thing we can find about this engine online because as is customary with military projects an image is worth a 1000 words and indeed to these pins at the ends of the vanes. You for a rotary vane engine and this patent more pins in a rotary vane engine shown in this These pins change the point of rotation of the of the vane and thus they reduce the number enable vane lubrication too. Here you can see it by incorporating a guide pin and by keeping area we can of course lubricate the vanes which of the forces on the vane by using a film of pin mechanism with an end plate channel So this is the problem, combustion vein engine, here around the spark plug. Because engine heating which leads to uneven engine cited the Wankel engine as an example of this. housing so the housing ecpands unevenly, conventional reciprocating piston uneven heating of the block because combustion same place, it doesn't just randomly change means the top of the engine block gets hotter And in some designs we even have a non-centrally gets hotter than the other side of the cylinder. No, because to put it in the simplest terms implement uneven cooling, this why we have cooling at the bottom in the crank case. In the case housing is a pronounced problem, truly pronounced pre-existing engine anatomy into levels intended design and application and boundary. the heat of around let's say 280 - 300 horsepower this becomes an issue. The same goes for a rotary design our cooling system accordingly. So the power, big boost crazy heat then the heating compensate with more uneven cooling, so as with any as best as possible and prepare for it. So I hope that have been raised in the comment section of everything because in one video there's been the key questions, so that's enough talking [Funky time!!! ] Okay guys, so here is the setup and although actually garbage, because after trying to build simple prototype there is nothing clever here, I came to the conclusion that boy have I underestimated this. I may have I may have talked about novel engine designs and because there's so many things you I did prepare for this, I did make a list a few things and let me explain everything. So just your basic lawn mower carburetor, nothing I don't know, operate by hand, this is our throttle a spark plug wire goes to a coil, is the most simple setup in the world because it's a magnetic flywheel inside that flywheel is a coil, it energizes and hopefully we get a spark in here. This is a very basic setup, behind here we have our flywheel and in the flywheel I have where I'm going to put in a pull cord and and then pull We're going to put a little cup here with then in into the carburetor, you just press this fuel in there. So where I did mess up is number magnetic the flywheel and the engine itself here I didn't do something right, I forgot part from the impact gun and some as you can see this little threaded rod and then I made this thread at the last minute by hand just so I this and wait for more parts, I So because I made the thread by hand, you can see, it's all wobbly and horrendous but I tried pulling I'm going to pull it now and see what happens, if I bought some start spray for actual engines, the spark is our biggest weakness now. Anyway, Okay, the final thing is the so the whole place is a mess, I'm See, I haven't thought about this the pull cord What a disaster Blueargah.....[desperate laugh ] Oh my God Okay I think the pull cord is way too long Okay, ready? Yeah...nothing Is the engine even getting Okay something weird happened... the vanes are no longer coming out... watch... only one I guess that's why we would put Okay, it seems that the vanes won't and the little layer of alcohol Who would have thought? Yeah, this I could not our problem, our problem is the spark, Today is not my day, even the microphone is attempt but even for a first attempt this was attempt a rating of 1 out of 10, seriously, The good news is that the insides of the rotor okay I'm going to keep the microphone here ... means that we do have some vacuum, it's pulling a in there, although I would expect there to be more So probably, very little vacuum because I the very tight fit between the bearing and the But overall I very much underestimated this, I'm not from this.... I learned that I have underestimated it, things taken taken into account, and also setup is junk, I don't think this is good. that was a big mistake, should have specified that try again after I take a big break because this have to be made months in advance, something this there's a lot of things around it, it's like a yeah if you have ideas or maybe some CAD you want to voluntarily give comments, I think at the top of the comments been doing this for decades with a bunch of to say hats off. I did this for like three days, but you get this bug where you want to do it again, it starts I have nothing to gain, I don't think I'm oh God I hope I didn't catch some weird engine-making build something that is difficult to build... If and maybe we can try something again or not... ever that's all I really can clearly see at this even a single proper combustion event, I do regret of the complexity of this stuff so at least I and for a bit of educational value so, it's not all and I'll be seeing you soon with more fun and I feel defeated but I don't want to battle, but should I even do more battles? the windmills? I'm going to stop talking.