Its streets its food its people ones of the kindest on earth we always hear about it Afghanistan this trip is something else what'll be our destiny to see around here? and what will be its level of dangerousness? I had no clue to answer those questions So I was forced to take the risk in order to get the right answers to where? ... to Kabul ... the Afghani capital we took a direct flight from Istanbul, Turkey ... to Kabul between the mountains you are going to get impressed when you see the landscapes and your feelings are gonna be unstable once in the airport ... and get through your future is blurry ... and finally ... the Afghani ... ... capital ... Kabul we're starting the first episode about the Afghani food ... and it's gonna be an opportunity to get to know its people Afghanistan ... these cameras are inspecting the whole city from above 40 years ... what bad situations were in a country that has the potential to go far ahead but the news is always ... we've just arrived to Afghanistan we reached Kabul ... the capital city of Afghanistan I'm going to spend the night here, in this room ... for 100 USD a day it's just my arrival from the airport ... I need some sleep and tomorrow gonna be a big day to explore Afghanistan - Welcome - where did learn Arabic? - how many years did you live there? But ... my expectations were something different ... its streets are so clean and tidy up yes, that's Kabul take a look at this place that's the first thing to see in Kabul your first impression - what's the name of this place? and we come in the springtime ... when it's the best time to visit Afghanistan - what's the Afghani language different races ... not found anywhere in the world all of them in one country this country is strangely diverse Pashtun, Tajik, Hazara, Uzbek, and Arabs and so many others ... in this magical country - how many explosions a week? - like in random places like he comes into the road put them in a car and escape just in Kabul or everywher around Afghanistan? this happens in Kabul and some provinces ... it depends ... currently, we're in Afghanistan Okay Guys, now we're inside a restaurant's kitchen ... guess for what? in the city centre of Kabul ... we're getting to know the Afghani food and the Afghani cuisine ... what are the favourite dishes in Afghanistan See this? ... it's called chopan kebab and it's famously known in Afghanistan the chopan kebab is similar to the regular kebab but its skewers are huge and the meat isn't boneless sand inside the stove and full chicken's skewers above it it's called chicken sooji because it's grilled from the hot sand for 4 hours ... they set up these big skewers just like this the Afghani people is a meat lover ... to the point of eating it twice a day like the Uzbek another famous dish in Afghanistan ... this bird look how's making the meat just in front of you ... with so many spices more than 22 kinds of spices in order to make this secret mixture widely famous in Afghanistan ... the name of this bird is Meraz which is the Quail you know the Quail, right? this is it ... Quail ... it happened that this is the most famous food in Afghanistan and maybe in so many Arabic countries too ... they could eat it ... maybe in Egypte - Peace upon you look at his beard ... he likes Syrian people I like all the Arab people I'm going to let you know them ... we're going to eat at their's See this one ... all of this pan is Sweetening ... it's similar to Kunafa and do you remember this one? it Karahi that we tried it in Pakistan all of these are Karahi Okay Guys, something to know about Shopan ... Shopan Kebab it's not just about the grilling way but also when it's done ... this is the difference between theirs and ours this pot ...when it's done it's put inside this pot and back to the fire to be well cooked and mild ... it's gonna untie easily ... the meat from the bone so this their way to make this kind of kebab in our Arabic countries, some bring these cooking pots from Afghanistan Shopan kebab, the best in Afghanistan See ... he put the meat in the pot ... and then he's going to close it firmly written on it &quot; dronta Jalal abad &quot; this is the region where this pot was made this food is called &quot; Rosh &quot; look how they put the whole potato with carrots and everything in the pot in the name of Allah ... Masha'Allah, the table looks great this one is the Shopan ... see how beautiful is the meat ... it's delicious OMG , it's taste ... something unreal this is the most delicious meat in the world ... look this one is the quail meat Guys, we moved to the most popular place in the city in Kabul, just behind us this restaurant &quot; Haidar chainaki&quot; this is the famous restaurant for chainaki which a food ... ... like a pot for tea but instead they put meat but now we are inside the restaurant getting to know this famous Afghani food and who took us to this restaurant? a famous Afghani Filmmaker named Roya that's how we get to know this place here she is ... and this restaurant is so famous &quot; Chainaki &quot; it's supposed to be for Chai &quot; tea &quot; but they used it for meat look everyone has a pot from those so when you order, they'll give one of those now, we're letting you know how they make this strange dish you must have one of these ... those are to hold your hand while getting one of the pots like a swinger ... it'll help you mix the meat inside the pots so rather than using it for tea ... they said let's use it meat instead it's a soup let's try this soup for the first time ... take some Naan IDK why they make it this way? it looks and taste completly diffirent in fact, the taste is incredible more delicious than the previous one chainaki is the most delicious food I ever saw I mean ever eat ... for real it's been cooked for 5 to 6 hours ... and I was thinking it's just for 10 minutes on a quiet fire ... for more than 5 hours of course, Afghanistan is so famous by the carpet making you'll find carpets everywhere here ... look at the carpets shops it suits you Okay guys, in Afghanistan, the oldest market .... which is the birds market it has all kinds of birds here in Afghanistan other than that, they are so famous for the carpet making See, all of these markets export for the whole world - You have all species of bird - how do you do? - do you wanna some Chai &quot;tea &quot;? they eat them and some take care of them... a whole market people trade all kinds of birds here Now, guys we at the restaurant ... we're not leaving Afghanistan without trying the Bolani in one of the famous Bolani's they make from potato and we're getting to know the way he's making Bolani from the 80' an ancient history ... Khaibar brought us here ... he's a really famous photographer from Afghanistan Hi Khaibar ... the biggest Samosa in the world it tastes like Samosa this mosque is very known ... this is where they declared the independence ... they president declared it here ... look how beautiful it is it's form is so pretty from the inside and the outside ... but it's not used for everyday prayers, only on Eids because it's a very sensitive place the Eid mosque ... only Eid prayers it's made in this shape ... they say this carpet is from Saudi Arabia I'm trying to show you all places in Kabul the king declared independence from the British in this place but now, there's presidency ... so many periods from that time 40 years of war and problems ... and people are totally annoyed by these things there's something very important in Kabul you have to know ... which is the green zone where all the embassies are located ... there's also a similar place in Irak a whole district protected ... that gives you an idea about how embassies are protected from threats Subtitles By