Temu has become the most the United States. Temu is cheaper, programmed to sell you totally addictive. She's going live on Think of it like the Home and millennials, entirely creators like Sandler, followers across social Walmart's definitely their e-commerce best to take market share up to them. The truth is, long ways to go. It's February 12th, 2023. The Super Bowl. Kansas City Chiefs and a people are watching this Wait, no. That's too far. Rewind. Download the Temu app and Right there! Pause it. Wait, what is Okay. Let's backtrack. It's February 12th, 2023. The Super Bowl. And Temu, a shopping app months ago, makes its TV biggest advertising promising bargain opportunity to shop like but two commercial spots The Super Bowl ad coming shopping app into downloads jumping 45% and just one day later. By the end of the first up 19 million downloads I'm sure you've seen this Shopping app Temu has shopping app in the Temu is cheaper, programmed to sell you totally addictive. The company says that it's savings to American Wish.com, AliExpress, the ago. They were like for Facebook, or for an iPhone. But where did Temu come money selling dirt cheap relatively new shopping center of a political Chinese e-commerce? So you see the Super Bowl download the app. You'll something like this. clocks, $100 coupons, 25% act now, hurry, fast. And even without those noticing things are Like really cheap. $19 headphones, $10 household goods for Whoa, is that a $10 Let's go ahead and add It's really socialized mega variety, gamified drive traffic, but most enrolled base and get download their app. Temu is an online bargain Similar to Amazon, products through the site rates. Based out of launched in the summer of weeks, the app was Store charts, surpassing Shein. All of this is advertising budget with a In January alone, Temu Meta platforms, and this user acquisition strategy not worried about sales, They're paying big for you and I and every someone to the site, to make that first purchase, social sphere, and you'll others in order to earn referral fees. Or if can earn up to $5,000 a The idea is that once you they start browsing different kind of gadgets are being offered. They they think, well, let's And what Temu has found tried it once, they keep more. And some people get It's very easy to shop it in a quite a because you're not thousands of dollars on The individual price a lot of people order in Based on some estimates, $1.4 billion on North 2023 alone, hoping to estimated 100 million The value of a monetizable it mDAU in the industry, $236 and $726 per active revenue, and they're at a fraction of the cost else had to pay in order So again, that begs the come from and how did it Well, if you haven't probably heard of its Chinese e-commerce company the Nasdaq this morning. Pinduoduo, one of China's with a market cap of more the retailer's first overseas market, where Alibaba already have a Pinduoduo utilized its strategy and logistics the ground quickly, is based in the U.S., its coming from distributors They have a supply chain out of their success of started out representing producers and and built that out to China. And now they've America. China is really the A lot of the products manufactured in China. They're shipped directly So those labor costs in the U.S. and elsewhere So Temu was able to keep low for customers as a So that $10 smartwatch is factory somewhere in Chinese bargain allows Temu to sell items What Temu sells is very It's not well known So that again, keeps because you're not paying But the same reputational Chinese retailers like to Temu. And as far as problems just went So you downloaded the through discounts, smartwatch, and now you come from a factory in couple of hiccups. Not can sell goods in the There's actually a against the Uyghur people Province, in the 23 million Uyghur people identity erased, upwards concentration camps. As a consequence of this, the Uyghur Forced Labor one of the things that's genocide is that hundreds are being pressed into all sorts of goods. There are countless goods States in violation of In a recently released House of Representatives on Temu's website being materials from the in direct violation of US Our American companies and abiding by the law, are goods are not sourced at a real competitive those fast fashion following the law. Most online e-commerce have policies in effect sale of products from the U.S. government found boilerplate language not Xinjiang. When pressed on &quot;Temu is not the importer they're a marketplace. They don't make the them. Yeah, that's not going to I mean, they have 80,000 basically pointing the it's up to them to police But, you know, that's not And it goes beyond that. Remember those ultra cheap Those help Temu take called de minimis government is also pretty Under our Customs and goods under $800 that are China to residential and duties, and they information about their So they are also able to that prohibit goods To put it into companies like H&amp;M and millions of dollars on borders in 2022. Temu and Shein paid Combined, they accounted 50% of all de minimis That's an estimated day, skirting customs, and flying under the CBP is already under a lot inspecting the packages And so then when you have under $800, along with have the data that would do a targeted inspection it almost impossible for This also puts other disadvantage. When you don't have those place, those goods end up other goods. And so not the duties, but also, others who are doing the are losing business. Not only do companies like advantage of this rule, the rapid success of If the de minimis rule throw a major wrench in That would be very because what it would either have to come into and go through full would cost slightly more would take a lot longer they'd have to build out the U.S., because that attached, and it starts low cost model, which is low prices. Into not just the federal concerned about. Temu. Some states have taken itself, citing Earlier this year, from government devices and telegram. In a Governor Greg Gianforte several other apps, are adversaries and cited the company, Pinduoduo, is China, and those fears Pinduoduo came under year when it was pulled in March after versions contain malware. According to a report government, that malware vulnerabilities on users text messages, data from other apps, and deleting the app question, what is Temu So let's recap. You downloaded the app, of listings, decided to smartwatch. It is then and sent to a Temu The warehouse then ships the U.S., paying a grand It is then shipped via Postal Service to its this happens in just So yes, we did in fact Temu. It took about a China to us here in New And yes, it really did First impressions of the kind of like an Apple ads we saw of the was the look and feel trying to replicate for very similar to other market. The ring on the almost identical to that Watch. The watch straps similar to Apple Watches. The only major visible port. While it does have it does require a two charger itself was very The watch also did turn The apps also looked The honeycomb effect is current operating system Overall, the watch seemed almost to a tee. Even the icons for some were almost identical. Overall, it's a pretty If I was in the market didn't care about just get this. To most just looks like an Apple Every app needs a killer The killer app here is discounts. That's what But they've married And they're starting by social network in North But they'll create their they release team with Pinduoduo in China. Team payments is the ignition to growing this China. Remember earlier when we about sales, it's worried Marketing and e-commerce mistake. Temu is spending a user base. Many suspect launch social shopping successful shopping model Pinduoduo in China another level. They use can band together with order to earn quantity It's referred to as team This social commerce them to grow to number users in China. In the U.S., Temu hasn't purchasing capability, laying the foundation for social marketing experts. So as Temu continues to base, it could be getting shopping experience for But will us consumers The potential for social there and it will grow, become the scale that it It's a different type of type of market. But I certainly think Temu to add. And even if Temu continues user base, can it survive scrutiny to continue 92% of us say that we'll friend or a family social marketing does. And so whether or not company is irrelevant, buying first from the friend or family based on And on top of that, gosh, for each one you bring The boxes flying down the square foot distribution and labeled, then loaded the shelves of the retailer. Walmart employs company in the world, and within ten miles of a Yet when it comes to clear leader, with 39.5% compared to Walmart's 7%. And with the global shoppers behavior for shopping is now people spent more on the first time. Now playbook and new catch up. We have 4,700 locations the store acts like a send those items the fastest time. Over the past few years, 30 warehouses like this, people, entirely online orders. Workers at stores are online orders as Walmart into Micro-fulfillment It's added membership compete with Prime, delivery programs in started packing and party sellers as it works Walmart.com. I'd say assortment is the then sellers are a means They're looking at saying, &quot;How can we grow We need more sellers. We need more selection.&quot; Customers trust us for trust us for general looking for every item We want to make sure that them. CNBC went to Walmart Bentonville, Arkansas, interview with Walmart's Tom Ward, to find out the for catching Amazon Walmart was founded in growing to nearly 2,000 Bezos founded Amazon in Despite its in-store notoriously slow to the launching its third party It didn't make real Walmart bought discount for $3.3 billion, tapping e-commerce, where he In 2018, it spent big to online market in India bought online fashion Eloquii. Then in 2020, although CEO Doug it all over again. If you look at the business, it changed when The Walmart brand really kinds of people, affluent customers, urban We were going to need a attract some of the want to be in our stores. Also in 2020, Walmart bring thousands of mom Walmart's marketplace. That's the terms used to by third party sellers merchandise bought and 2020 also saw the launch Walmart Fulfillment fulfilled by Amazon or and their built in low. Walmart's definitely, you tripling down on their trying their best to take Amazon or catch up to The truth is, though, ways to go. Last year, Walmart opened international sellers. This summer, Walmart Plus the first time with members just like And in February, Tom Ward e-commerce division. The nearest Walmart to in their pocket. It's also the ultimate It should be an endless It should be completely, solutions for whatever And increasingly, help us do that. We went to a bustling sellers in Las Vegas in dominated by Amazon For the first time in the history, Walmart also had Because they're smart and is where the sellers are, of more brands on the It's the only other be competition to Amazon. Michael Lebhar started years ago, when he was school. At first, my mom was not room was just a bunch of Now, Lebhar says platform for his Spawn says did about $3.5 Walmart.com last year, million on Amazon. On margins, too, are so good always like, oh, competitive, which you're you're not able to charge But on Amazon you're advertising. Like you down so much because of The cost of advertising on But people are always more than ever before, it advertising on Amazon, seen. As the leader. Amazon can ads, seller account services. Jare' at Amazon and now helps services, which launched WFS hasn't yet raised offers seller support for Year over year, Walmart 500% in GMV. We add sellers every day. Our competitive advantage into the program is the this is a marketplace But for now, Walmart still sellers and a 10th the Amazon has. Greg Mercer company Jungle Scout, numbers with regular sellers. The fact that there are on Walmart, I think and the result of that is typically have a more what Amazon sellers do. Surveys earlier this year sellers turn a profit, Amazon. Five years ago, Amazon on Amazon. They didn't But that story has Most Amazon sellers that &quot;How can I diversify About a year ago, we 75,000 Walmart sellers, we've seen that number Walmart sellers today. Lawrence Stark runs mDesign, one of the brands on Amazon, with a online sales last year. mDesign started selling started investing more Because everyone was at really ramped up our different marketplaces Diversify the risk, well and reach more Stark says mDesign will in sales on Walmart this million on Amazon last We are seeing, you know, over year on Walmart. Stark says Target has been because there's even less that are invited by site. In contrast, it's anyone to start selling is cutthroat. You can take, you know, saturated product on press or something, where thing. There's maybe like garlic press, for But Walmart wants that to We want assortment on the So again, customers can that they're looking for any means that they want. Walmart is also adding growing collection of its apparel and home, that later in stores. But as Walmart's third too does the risk for bad Aukey, two huge nearly a billion in off Amazon but remain They kicked him off for sad to see that Walmart now sell on the .com So as positive as I am bit disappointed that brands with their to the FTC is illegal to You can't buy reviews. Walmart says it looked didn't find the same Aukey on its site, as it Walmart also opened its international sellers We know that Amazon had a on fake reviews. I think it primarily the most. That, combined international sellers, we the percent of Chinese Still, sellers say Walmart than Amazon when it comes We're really proud of the high standards for before they get on the to continue that. Another big way Walmart is Amazon can't match, is products onto thousands shelves. Because, you know, each know, so many cases in game over if you're just seller, to be able to Walmart stores is like a Our product was like at in the category on So we got an email from a you know, would you be This year, for the first were given first program called Open Call, products for space on Some 2,000 sellers We've got a real mission it just made sense that high quality assortment, available to our online. Walmart's huge number of undisputed king in Whole Foods in 2017 and space by making two of but Amazon.com and Whole less than 1.5% of the to Walmart's 18%. Grocery is less merchandise, but the real to get customers to fill a mix of grocery, general party items. Maybe you're shopping for store product, but at and it is heavy and a lot products. Now, despite big upward pandemic, both Walmart sharply after Q1 earnings chain issues and profits. But Walmart's as a leader in low prices now, as customers look at a new 40-year high. As part of Walmart's parts of its vast retail combined what used to be Walmart's own goods, another for its third products. And wherever there's wherever there's two apps under one roof, we're now friction. Walmart Plus, launched in benefits for loyal online shopping perks. It's Walmart's answer to launched all the way back Prime now costs $139 a day shipping on more than grocery delivery in 2,000 Day deals and Amazon's Video, Amazon Music, Gaming and Amazon Photos. Meanwhile, Walmart Plus benefits like free same free shipping on cashierless scan and go and exclusive access to Walmart Plus weekend this year. And amid Walmart just added extra plus members, who now get not only at Walmart's own participating stations, Murphy and Sam's Club. Walmart is also using its their proximity to making big investments in programs. People are coming to us but they can buy a brand They can get a whole new They can get all of that application in one place, them with great speed Last year, Walmart for Walmart's own your door in two hours or an additional fee of at Plus members. This marketplace items, but traffic for those as We can say to a customer, you want this evening, specific item, we can quickly as well. Walmart has been ramping since at least 2017, fulfillment centers investing big in robotic following Amazon's lead. Also like Amazon, Walmart what it calls its Spark of the cumbersome, delivery. We can activate drivers to deliver them to our density grows, the cost So much so that last year, goods for other retailers GoLocal. We've announced some like The Home Depot and including small and And what we're seeing is, mile capabilities, our cost for both of us go In Scottsdale, Arizona, completed 5000 deliveries vehicles. And this vehicle outside, and they can seat. And then their return in the back the supercenter. Walmart expanding drone delivery deploying them from 37 million households across Florida, Texas, Utah and Customers pay $3.99 for pounds to be delivered by more. In the same way that the like a fulfillment starting to act like a And there's the growing online and picking up can't rival. In some of these other doesn't have, like the delivery. But there's a You could be living in and you can get your Whereas on Amazon, for more than two days. While you can't currently purchases at Walmart items shipped with WFS forwarded to stores for or delivery. And while to doorsteps and some garages, Walmart has a straight into your fridge There's so good for our can't get out, or if ankle or something, broke You know. Thousands of full time Mike Edwards spend their fully electric vans with merchandise. We don't step foot inside residence without this Then bringing it inside it away in the stranger to enter your the program has been Walmart is rapidly million homes. All of our associates wear and every part of the They can't actually confirm that their camera And so as a customer, if are curious, you can In-home associates will back to Walmart for expanding the program to and other highly It's not ready to And so they're like, oh my walk the dog? Like, can It's like, how else can While marketplace be delivered in-home, Walmart to build loyalty. In-home offers a unique for a lot of our pretty distinguishable and now they're on our shopping for groceries, things they might want to available in marketplace. There are things that see at Walmart. And so loyal customer and a much stickier way than we You know, they're not 50% market share next to do the things that they will continue to eat share, I believe. Myriam Sandler and her cleaning up their kids 21 products, 21 products. We're setting up for a Tap to join me live. Instead of TV, she's set -- on Amazon. Hi, everyone. Welcome I'm so excited to be live I'm Myriam Sandler and MotherCould. Think of it Network for Gen Z and online, hosted by famous have millions of platforms. Hi from Ohio. Hi from San Diego. Hello from Honduras. Hello, hello. Alejandra, hi. How are you? We know that the vast consumers say that they their first stop for because they have built feeling authentic people online. Amazon, TikTok, Instagram, all getting in on the differentiate a product others in oversaturated One of my favorite spinbrush. They want somebody They really want somebody works and showing its And it's also U.S. is lagging way consumers say they bought shoppable livestream in In the U.S., 78% say one. In China, we're seeing 200 in sales. How do we mimic And I think we're mid hundreds of millions. It looks really cute. We go behind the scenes what it's like to sell it'll take for the mainstream way that U.S. consumers shop. Very cool. So I will do like a little this in half and then And I want to give you a Impulse purchases, driven are nothing new. And this is the American out on D-Day. For the last four decades, and QVC have been millions of U.S. e-commerce thrives, been forced to evolve. In 2017, amid slowing Shopping Network merged when the pandemic viewership for the back up 10%. But their biggest growth, happened on their social It's no surprise the where other platforms are Live shopping has been social media platforms Instagram tried it, And then really during to see it percolate, was such a big audience Another really cool thing that it is completely It'll never run out of thermal technology. Just like the QVC of old, products live, now from homes. Audiences can stars. A chat window lets host can answer live, and products make for easy Oh my god, $23 you guys! Thank you guys for During pandemic lockdowns, China by storm. Chinese retail giant market there, launching Live in 2016. In 2020, it exploded in China's 2020 Singles' Day livestreams generated transactions, a 400% jump That same year, the in China was valued at grow to $423 billion in People are excited by what where you see really, rates on some of these than maybe a regular You're seeing potentially You might see much lower people know what they There's a rapidly growing livestreaming apps in sister app Douyin and bottom prices. known as key opinion massive fortunes. There's entire boot camps craze of becoming a KOLs there have millions of fans, so even if 10% million. People want to or products that they And that's really what's shopping in the U.S. that's very different all about just a mass At 35% of the market. Alibaba's Taobao Live biggest live shopping years have seen a flurry companies investing in too. First among them, Two pockets. Actually, I I'll show you the closer up. Amazon introduced 2016, then launched its tool for making it easier So the first thing that with is this lovely I robe. Tiana Young Morris was a she first started The pandemic hit and I was I was on TikTok just like just kind of took on a Videos of her trying on went viral long before Every other wig they were is baby throw and go. Throw it on like a hat Like that first viral there are a lot of people product that I How can I make money off And Amazon just makes it for the influencer Through the Amazon creators get their own users can follow them. Now, Young Morris sells Amazon Live. As an attorney in private about 100 grand, like a maybe like 110 or so. And now I make about six The biggest moneymaker for Commission, which is sales from clickthroughs although the rare 20%. Amazon also offers for going live regularly, extra from brands that sponsored livestreams did with Dove. This body cleanser, give While brands often send products, top creators honest reviews. The length of them is not I feel like it's truth about what it is, me and a tall woman buys realize it when they get going to return it. I really want it to be my I want it to be purchased own money on this product worth spending your money I probably decline 75% of way, and I could have a accepted those, and I members, but I would have Celebrities like Kourtney Paris Hilton also hold launch of their own have also seen major where a carousel of left make for I've got so many amazing guys, and it's actually Last year, during Prime Lives hit 714,000 views says 83% of purchases customers. Our portable, waterproof So that saw an 80% following of sales. And then we saw an to any of our JBL pages Sandler's career as a 2019 with viral videos nearly 80 million views playful recipes and her three daughters at So my husband was an years. One day we was making double what he making a really good take a leap of faith. It's probably grown four crazy. Sandler's MotherCould Amazon, but she has more 1.2 million, and TikTok 11.7 billion views. I don't profit off any can go live. Everyone essentially coming to buy They're there for that. I feel like if you are on TikTok, live on to, like, see what's Amazon Live is the most platform, but we say it's bring your own audience. So they have to come and is a little difficult, showing up and just While Amazon is all about high conversion, social more about growing Products go viral all the And you know, Scrub Daddy Dyson Airwrap is another That's what platforms from Amazon. Amazon, you go there to about or you're looking In 2020, Instagram and U.S. social platforms to capabilities. ByteDance with Walmart for an hour users could buy Walmart creators. The duo did after reporting the first more views than expected, following by 25%. I think TikTok is going to everyone else is because now. They have a billion every time you use the your behavior, learning serving you what it But right now in the U.S., navigate away from the eliminating a big So in the fall, TikTok testing of a new function It allows users to buy although it's invitation merchants in the U.S. launched in Southeast Now, Shopify and YouTube shopping efforts, too. Announced in July, the shopping capabilities so without leaving YouTube. It's not just like, here's distracting our youth it's actually, here is a evolving and adapting to look in the future. Business owners like YouTube and elsewhere to products. Ho first went workout video under her years ago. Viewers asked featuring her screen I was like, what you want? Stuff with my screen name And so I was like, okay, like, these shirts from screen printing it up on Facebook and minutes. Shortly after, Ho launched PopFlex and started TikToks that get millions 37 weeks ago, I attempted legging. She tries on PopFlex which she says leads to TikTok. Right now, across all my about 15 million everywhere and on YouTube And then in terms of is an eight figure Blogilates on its own is Ho said she had her best before Black Friday, YouTube live shopping are happening tonight, it You need to go get them they'll be lasting long. There's also a handful of U.S. platforms devoted There's NTWRK that collectibles, Supergreat products, and the biggest TalkShopLive -- TalkShopLive, TalkShopLive -- where shopping events in 2022, Parton, Tim Tebow and And TikTok is reportedly TalkShopLive about shopping efforts to the TikTok currently faces to concerns it could hand I have a feeling that it'll probably sell or do authorities, but I don't any time soon. And it really is the right now because it is Z. Despite trending hashtags one survey found U.S. shoppers are hesitant to on social sites. In turn, retailers miss and conversion data sites. It's a big barrier business model, and one Amazon Live or Alibaba's As e-commerce platforms they keep buyers on site sale. Amazon continues to efforts, launching Amazon September. Meta, on the back its focus on shopping on Facebook in shop tab from Instagram's So we're bringing create and center, and we're And in China, the greater supervision over including livestream biggest live shopping with massive fines or breaks. Okay, so yeah, this is a case. In the U.S., it remains to shopping is just a fad consumers were stuck at Or if Amazon Live and created a big enough draw good. One thing I've learned incredibly resilient they find something that So yeah, let's hope that see that real explosion Thank you so much. Have a great day.