You all read the title, saw the thumbnail. Best free plugins of 2024. Let's go! Number one on this list is the best This is a deep sampled 1928 Steinway With over 11, 000 samples clocking in at people, because this thing sounds real. I'm hooked. It was recorded with the full set It even had ivory keys! No elephants were harmed in Scoring Piano is available for Kontakt, or you can download It's hard to believe this one's free. But just wait. Later in this video, I'm going to show but then were set free to the world. Make sure you stick around. Next, let's dive into the depths of Somatics have designed this plugin playing off a dusty old tape deck. Let's put it on the 8DO piano. See where this is going? Instrument, then effect. With just five controls, including tape lush Juno 106 inspired chorus, you're All you have to do is twist that You don't need to sample With BitFlip, you'll get all those tasty It looks like a bomb! You'll find tons of presets inside, for You can get really granular by playing to guide the arpeggiator. You can mix and match sound sources along There's even five macro effects that you I'm tweaking out! Next up is Kilohearts Essentials. These used to be paid The best price! These are perfect if you switch DAWs use a DAW like Reaper that doesn't Some of my faves from this bundle are They're awesome. The Filter, the Transgate, Let's chuck them on BitFlip. That's 33 killer plugins in one bundle. Uh, my hard drive isn't happy. Take a musical journey back in time This is a free plug in with a great cause. There's a donation option to for children all over the world. Donate now! Vintage has an engine based on meticulous You'll get everything from deep even vintage noise effects. It's all about recreating those You get a ton of presets included, modern experimental soundscapes. Next up is LANDR Samples Plugin. Next up is LANDR Samples Plugin. Not only is this plugin free, but it All you have to do is drag Ha! This track is missing some drums, so And take a listen. The best part of this plugin is that to the BPM of your session and you can Even the harmonic samples will Okay. Now that I've got some drums Audio's free plugin, Beat Slammer. Beat Slammer. Beat Slammer. Beat Slammer. Beat Slammer. Beat Slammer! This is a plugin that It adds real juice to your drum bus. Similar to this juice Speaking of slamming, Slam that subscribe button if you I said slam so many times that This is a simple to use parallel on their IHNY2 compressor. Just use the XY module to dial and then mix into taste. Computer. Let's add another incredible IK Multimedia's Syntronik 2CS 33 classic synths and over 2. 4 gigs of sound content. Okay. I'm sure you recognize some of them. What's really impressive about this to four synths in one instance. You can even set which keys play what. What? I need a lead for this track, so I'm going choose a couple lead sounds to layer. In each layer, you can customize the digging into the edit panel with its to five different effects modules. All in rack form. Rack form! There's also an arpeggiator All in all, this might be synth machines I've ever seen. Okay. This next one is the one I was along with Kilohearts, of course. Spectral Plugins is a company that decided Instead of selling their company or to set them free for everyone to You never see this. When do you see this? You can get Spacer, a modular creative designer and clipping tool, and You would have paid 300 A moment of silence for those people. My favorite of the three is Spacer. So let's dig in. With Spacer, you get six You can choose from 150 global modules, or you can choose presets You've got Reverb, Grain Reverb, Delay, Mutility, and Chorus modules. And if you still don't know what to the dice globally or on each module. I truly don't think you'll ever Ever. Last but not least. The OG free plugin we all know every month, Spitfire Labs. You all know labs, I'm sure of it, but because there's some gold in here. My faves are the new Gaelic Voices and glockenspiel instrument. Did you know I played Had lots of friends. Okay. Gaelic Voices comes with 11 unique voice techniques and textures. Let's take a listen. With Bell Swarm you get a split of With one patch that just plays the notes, You also get some unconventional That's it for this one. Which one was your favorite? Did we miss any? Leave your thoughts in the comments below one of them telling you you're wrong. Just kidding. Maybe not.