My name is Raquel and I'm 33 years old with terminal colorectal cancer. And I feel like that has been such a huge part of my life that I have to remind myself that there's other parts outside of that. So I currently work in the tech industry. I'm very blessed to be able to do so. And in my spare time I really like reading, I like drawing. I'm very artistic and I'm very recently I've been posting more on social media is where I've been finding great connections with other people, going through the same thing as me. So to go back to the beginning of when I first started noticing symptoms of my colorectal cancer, I would say it was 2019 and during that time I was living with the roommate who's my best friend, and she started to notice how often I was going to the bathroom. At the time I was working in restaurant management, and so I figured I'd probably eating too much of the food at work or I'm eating too many processed foods. And I started eating a higher protein. I started changing my diet training healthier by also using like fiber supplements. I figured I wasn't eating enough fiber and I feel like that's one of the first things you kind of read about online, about how to resolve like diarrhea or like bowel issues. And I found that that did help, you know, I found that the symptoms did go away, but they would come back to, you know, plague me again in 2022. And that's when I was working as a contractor in the tech industry. And I made really good friends with other people on my team. And one of them noticed how often I was going to the bathroom. And she said, Raquel, are you okay? And I said, Yeah, I feel like I'm fine. Like, I feel like maybe it's the dairy, my coffee, maybe I have a gluten sensitivity. At the time, I wasn't really concerned and I kind of just wrote myself off. I dismissed my symptoms, but knowing what I know now, I was having the classic colorectal cancer symptoms. So the colorectal cancer symptoms that I personally experienced off the top of my head, it's going to be the frequent bowel movements and then also the Penton stools is a classic sign of colorectal cancer. In addition, like any kind of blood that's in your stool is a huge red flag. It means something is wrong and based on the color of it, it kind of like pinpoints where exactly that bleed is or whether it's dark or mild red for me, it was like mild red. I didn't have heavy bleeding, which is why I thought like it might have been okay, that there wasn't something really wrong but another classic sign is like getting really full quickly after eating, and that was definitely like a huge the red flag that something was wrong because that happened from me from like 20 or 22 to like when I got diagnosed in May of 2023. It's just I feel like my digest of system was probably just under so much stress just from the cancer. And I would later find out that the cause of some of my bloating was from the medical term is insides. So when you have cancer that is as advanced as mine, especially like with colorectal cancer, that those tumors start secreting like a free fluid. And so I was actually actively dieting, trying to lose a couple of pounds before my diagnosis. But despite how healthy I was eating, I could not lose weight. And I thought it was strange, like, why is my stomach so round and so hard? Well, when I got diagnosed, I found out that I had about a gallon of this fluid in my stomach that they had to drain and immediately like that relieves so many symptoms I was having with eating. So that is something that you can get when cancer is metastatic and it advanced. And I'm trying to think I would say that those were the worst symptoms. And and I want to reiterate again, any kind of blood in your stool is a huge red flag. Pay attention to it. And the reason why I didn't take it more seriously is because the symptoms would come and then they would go for a while. So I feel like it's important to know, you know, as a millennial, I feel like and I have statistically looked into this, that like half of us don't have a primary care provider. And that was the story of my twenties. And I was really fortunate and blessed to land a permanent role in the tech industry where I had good health care and I was able to schedule like my first physical in like ten years back in May of 2023. And when you don't go to the doctor for that long, there is a lot to talk about. And so I was letting my primary care physician know all of my symptoms, especially like my bowel symptoms, and that somewhat recently I had had severe abdominal pain, abdominal pain that was full like abdominal like it wasn't just one spot and that I felt like it was very abnormal. And when I was talking to her about this, I could kind of tell that she thought it was kind of in my head. And she actually scheduled me a psychiatric appointment after my physical because she thought I just had anxiety. But like I said, now that I know so much about my own disease, I know that they were classic colorectal cancer symptoms. But because I'm so young, like I'm just 33, I'm a woman, I'm a minority, statistically speaking, like to even just have one of those category is is going to make you more likely to be dismissed in a medical setting. And that is absolutely what I had experienced. And it was maybe three weeks after that physical that my cancer was found completely metastatic, just spread all over in the E.R. And I know that she probably felt some guilt because after my diagnosis in the E.R., they send out information to my primary care provider until I end up being assigned to like an oncologist is typically how it works. And I'm sure once she saw just how bad it was that she felt guilt. At the same time, I'm sure she's not the only doctor who has done that, because when you're young and especially like medical doctors, they're being taught these statistics of like colorectal cancer is an older persons disease is something that happens to you when you're in your fifties. Maybe they're not going to see somebody like me who visually looks very healthy and who's so young and think cancer, right? So I don't necessarily blame her, but at the same time, there's like dismissal of people who are like me, I feel like is widespread because I know I'm not alone. But when I did finally go to the E.R., I remember that day, it just so clearly when I got diagnosed with my cancer, I had severe abdominal pain that was migrating to my lower back and I almost fainted in my apartment. And then my intuition was saying something really wrong. Go to the doctor. And so I went to the E.R. and I know that they had Diane a full blood panel on me, which included C-A and K 125 and like K 19, which are all cancer markers in my were just absolutely elevated. Like my feet alone was like in the seven hundreds, which anything above 30 is already like a sign of like kind of cancer activity in your body. So for mine to be that higher, you know, it means that my cancer was so advanced. I feel like when I was in the E.R. that they took me really seriously. And I feel like that's where my cancer was found. Like the doctor knew something was wrong and she did that blood panel I had and I've had an MRI done, a CT scan and then also ultrasound. And they did those tests like immediately, like right away, in the beginning of my diagnosis. So when I went to the E.R., the E.R. doctor actually told me that I had ovarian cancer because that's where they found it first. So in the CT scan that they took of me, they found that the cancer was pretty advanced on my ovaries and in my liver. But it wouldn't be until I had a liver biopsy that they would find the primary source of my cancer, which was colorectal. And I wouldn't find it until a little bit later, just like how incredibly advanced. So my personal metastases are, like in my colon, my ovaries, my liver, my lungs, my peritoneal cavity and omentum, which those are not terms I'm sure most people are used to hearing. So it's essentially just like all of my abdominal lining is where like my cancer is and where they found it through those tests within like, like a week. It happened so fast. And I feel truly blessed that my that when I went to the E.R. that like my cancer and what type of cancer was like diagnosed so quickly. I feel like that just kudos to the hospital that I went to that they took me very seriously, that they ran all these tests in the E.R., found my cancer, that they immediately referred me to an oncologist. And like next day, I was talking to an oncologist, and then that oncologist referred me to my liver biopsy. And a couple of days later I had it and they found the primary source of my cancer. So I feel like even though it's very, very unfortunate how late my cancer was found, just what an incredible experience that was for them to just like, take me so seriously and find out like what was going on. I feel like in regards to like finding out how I felt about my diagnosis, I don't think I had the reaction that maybe like a normal person would have. And I feel like that because I've had a lot of things happen in my life and I am definitely the type of person that has like a very calm demeanor when it comes to it. Like when things go wrong, like I'm your go to person to like, think logically about it. And that's literally how I processed my cancer diagnosis in the E.R. And even the doctor seems like really surprised that she's, like, recovered, Like you're not even crying. I'm so sorry. Like, this is I'm not telling you good news. And I said, you know what? It's okay, because no matter what happens, I'm going to get through it. Like, I just feel like so much confidence that whether I can heal from this or whether I don't like, I'm going to be able to handle it well, like it'll be okay because I've overcome other things in my life and I hope that maybe I can be a bit of an inspiration for people who are struggling. I feel like everything's going to be okay. And I told myself that even in the beginning of my diagnosis, when it comes to treatment of my colorectal cancer. So I have personally found that it really depends on like your hospital, the type of protocol that they're going to want to approach for your diagnosis. When I first got diagnosed, I was actually with a different hospital and for insurance purposes had to switch to a different one. But I feel like my treatments would have been a little bit different if I would have stayed with that first initial hospital because they wanted to just start surgeries right away. Like they said, you're going to have a full hysterectomy. I'm going to be doing this in collaboration with one of our like very renowned liver surgeons, and we're going to do this at the same time. But then when I switched over to a different hospital, they told me, we're going to focus on chemotherapy, so let's see how you react to chemotherapy, shrink what we can, and then talk about surgery. And I understand the reasoning for that because they want to shrink as much as they can to lessen, I guess, like things going wrong during surgery or make it a little bit less risky. So because of that, because I, I ended up switching hospitals. I've just been primarily been chemotherapy with my chemotherapy, I first started with like it's all a plan. I think it is a really common like chemotherapy medication and the side effects are not pleasant, it causes you like neuropathy, a cold sensitivity. And so fortunately for me we stopped that in December, so I was only on it for about six months. And so like I was really starting to feel like the side effects were affecting my quality of life too much. But that's a very common one. And now I have switched over to like, I believe it's a five of you and the arena T can. And the reason why we're introducing the Arena team is to see if that's going to help like my liver metastases, because so far I am having a mixed response to chemotherapy. My liver and lung metastases like aren't responding to chemo, but the metastases and like my my ovaries is and also I'm like my colon are responding moderately well. So just I guess me and my and colleges are trying to see like what combination could maybe help us work for a girls. My cancer is so I don't really have a choice. As of right now. Chemotherapy is actually keeping me alive. So I'm going to continue being on it strictly weekly. And also 50% of like people who have chemotherapy might need what's called like panic shots. So your white blood cell count gets so low with chemotherapy that you need other medications to boost your white blood cells to continue treatment. I unfortunately fall under that category. So not only do I have my chemotherapy, but I have to have the shots to even have chemotherapy because my white blood cells get too low. And right now they're telling me that they don't even want to do surgery just because of like how incredibly advanced my cancer is. They're saying that it might not be worth it. However, I personally have read and have seen from other people with colorectal cancer that they have better survivability with surgery because the more cancer that is in your body, it gives it more opportunities to spread and be aggressive. So I am actually very actively looking to find and get second opinions from hospitals that are willing to like, touch me and like get some of this out because I know it would help me in the long run. But I will be traveling to get a second opinion at M.D. Anderson in Sloan, hoping that they can do surgery on me, which will help extend my life. And even though I know it's risky, I'm I'm willing to do it because the alternative is just beyond chemo forever. You know, my last message and advice for people is listen to your intuition, because you know your body more than anybody else, a medical professional is diagnosing you based off of, you know, generalities. But you know, yourself better than anybody. So if you're having these problems, please feel validated that you deserve to go to a GI specialist, go to specialist, get a second opinion. Don't just listen to the first doctor. You know, get opinions from like a second or third, especially if your symptoms are persistent. I feel like that's the biggest thing. Your symptoms are persistent and they aren't going away. Something is wrong. And especially what are your stool? 100% correct. Why a specialist like that should never be written off. You deserve to be listened to and you deserve to be taken seriously in a medical setting. And if the first doctor isn't taking you seriously, all it takes is just for one takes one one who is going to listen to you and who wants to help you. And they're out there. We just have to find them. And even if a medical professional, we know as much as we want to like 100%, you know, trust, they have like our best interest, like they went to medical school. They're highly intelligent. That doesn't mean that they aren't sometimes wrong. You know, that doesn't mean that they don't also make mistakes or sometimes misdiagnosed. So go out there and fight for yourself and fight for your health. And I hope everybody who hears my story feels very validated to go in and seek out.