This video is brought to you Raster in one app, a fully featured iPad Best of all, Affinity designer two is here, and I'm gonna show you everything that I'm Drew and I've been teaching design for check out my work over, [MUSIC] Let's have a look at the interface just kind of get our bearings and Up here at the top you have your menus other app. If you're on Mac you're also gonna have gonna find things like about information. You can find the version that you have you can also find your settings here. Now if you're on Windows, But from the settings menu, control your color management performance. You can also find your shortcuts here and I'm gonna leave this stuff as the default for me and it'll be simpler for you to get close that out. Of course, the File Menu manages importing Edit is where we're gonna find things where we can set up defaults. Text, we'll get into more only working for this is where you're gonna find controls things like that that you don't The layer menu is probably one of the most when it comes to working with objects. Select is also a really you can select things based on type You can also select things by name and select them all at once without having to The view menu is where you're gonna find guides, rulers and things like that. The Window menu is a really handy place different Panels and If you ever lose a panel and you can't You can see which panels are open by we can see that the color panel is on the right side of the screen, It's a tab in this group of other panels. We can drag these panels off and close it like that, we can go back up to now there's no longer So, all we have to do to bring that it will bring it back and put it I'm just gonna drag that tab back over Before we get started, I'm going to go studio because that's really gonna It's also gonna make it simpler for you to find things on a fresh So, I'm going to go to Window menu, this is the place where we can But I'm just gonna click Reset Studio, that stuff that I had docked on it's brought back our To the help menu is also really handy, video tutorials and things like that, and the quickstart guide as well as in Mac OS, if I type in something that I want it's going to show me every instance Then we can just click on it from here The command bars are the two Now right now, the context bar doesn't on what we have selected and Right now there's nothing open, so this is got this main bar, and that one stays Over here on the left, we've got our three which is kind of the main that's where we're gonna do most of our We've got the pixel persona which is I personally use it more on the iPad app. And then we have the export persona and we need to export it, or lots of something like that, You'll notice each persona has a slightly a lot of the tools are the same. We'll quickly go over some of the options First, we've got the synchronized can create kind of defaults from whenever reuse things right here. Those will have our pixel view, our retina It's really, really handy for seeing how things are laid out without turn the color back on or have things Next we have the arrangement buttons, we so move to front, move to back. I typically use keyboard shortcuts for are right here, or you can just drag In the middle we've got our document name, also the zoom percentage. Since I don't have anything open, Next, we've got some These are really handy for when you vertically or just rotate I do tend to use keyboard shortcuts for it can be really handy for This is the alignment panel, this is actually a drop down menu where we can quickly center things or justify We can even use this that they take up all of And when we get into our projects, you'll see just how much stuff Next we have our snap setting so We can also move by whole pixels, this is gonna be handy when we're working they look correct when we export them And then we have our snapping buttons, turns it on and off. And right next to that, Right now it doesn't do anything because this has entire presets for different it's UI work or layout or object creation And we also have the ability to fine So we don't have to kind of mess around want it to snap to. Next we have our Boolean operations, I'm gonna show you when we get a non-destructive Boolean But we've got basic Boolean subtract intersect either or. Finally, we have the insert controls, and I use this quite a bit because this just Without having to worry about Depending on whatever you have selected, you can either insert above You can insert below or you can insert it so we'll get into flipping things &gt;&gt; This video is brought to you by Envato subscription in the world, Click the link to learn more. [MUSIC] &gt;&gt; So We'll go up to the File menu and on the screen you can see there's a whole we have some options for We also have templates that we can save, Samples are handy if you see kinda how to reverse But we're gonna come back to New, and The presets that it's given us will but also the units and If I go to press ready, for instance and to give us millimeters for units and Assuming that we're going to print it. If I switch to letter instead, go back to us inches instead of millimeters, but it's For this project, we're going to be I'm gonna scroll down through I'm just gonna select Now typically a story post is we can adjust that up here at the top. And I'm just gonna set that We can see our units are in pixels, we've got a page width of 1,080 pixels and The DPI is also visible here, it's 144. Since we're not printing that, And color is going to automatically I'm not going to be using margin or you can set that up here if you want to. Going back to the layout tab, we also I'm gonna leave that turned off for now an art board once we've So let's go ahead and click Create, I'm gonna be going through all And we're gonna touch on each of Before we start with anything though, it is probably good to have I'm gonna drag that out so And we'll start off with the first tool Now there are a few different And the easiest, obviously, If I click that, And I can click this as So we'll click it a couple And we can see here in the history Let's zoom out, I'm gonna use but you can also use the command key to You can hold spacebar to pan you can use the option or the Alt key on So we can see that we've If I go back one state in history, we've but then we can also just click I'm gonna go back one state and instead the same size as first one here, we're So I've still got And I'm just gonna click and drag, and I'm gonna hold SHIFT to So we've got two artboards that rectangles, and And you can see up here in the history icon on that second state which is If you've ever worked with something like That basically we've got a fork we can choose which version So I'm gonna go back to the cycle future, you can see that it we've got If I go click on that button again, you can see now we've got This is really, really powerful and apps like Illustrator, you might then do something different it's it actually does keep It does count, I guess, your history So if you don't have a whole you are gonna find this But this can be really, really powerful You don't have to go back and redo make multiple copies of the same artboard You can just use this history fork and I'm gonna go ahead and we'll dock history back down here In order to fit this artboard to the screen as possible you can just As I'm doing these keyboard shortcuts, you'll also notice that they show up This is the command key, Next, we're gonna use the place tool I use Envato Elements myself because it saves me a ton of time to have high I put together a collection So check out the link in Click on the Place Image tool, and that's gonna open our Finder or I'm just gonna drag all of this project and click Open. It loads up this little stack where we And as I place these, So I'm just going to click and So I want that image about there, me cuz I've got that snapping active. And currently, my snapping, I just have it set to snap snap to shape key points, And it's also set to only And this just lets me quickly if I just click once it's going to place So I'll command Z to undo And we're just gonna place You can see that it's removing This one actually got let's do that, And there we go. Now that we've imported the images, This is kind of analogous to It's the black Arrow is the very first one which you can see by holding And you don't wanna confuse which is the known tool specifically for Here we can select multiple we can also drag a box around them. And then we have a selection active, we can transform them using the handles on These will constrain to certain axis, so if I only want to scale in the x-axis, If I wanna scale in both x and I can use one of the corner handles. If we wanna keep things proportional, If you want to scale from hold the command key or We can also rotate using if you just move your mouse cursor near one of these corners, When rotating control, we'll rotate rather than rotating around the center, Using the Shift key we'll also you're only going to rotate We'll have a look at some of the options So, we can quickly group our you can see it creates Auto select basically just lets us So, if you don't want to accidentally you can turn off auto select and then you it won't let you select Just going to hold Shift in select these I will turn auto select back on because You can also control what it auto selects which is everything, or you can Here we have some controls for So, we can enable the origin here, but we get this little blue circle, and wherever we put that that's where it's So if I went here and in Z is rotating around that origin. It's gonna do the same thing with scale, is going to scale all those It is worth noting that it's going to move that origin with it's not going to scale directly to it, I'm gonna turn that off. This button is the hide If we activate that, whenever we drag our all those interface lines, the bounding So it just makes it a little bit easier to where we're dropping things. I'm gonna go ahead and you can see it does have those lines now. Next we've got the show alignment handles, making fine adjustments or working with get positioned exactly where you want And finally, When I turn that on and rather than dragging the entire it's gonna rotate each image This can be really useful when you're all exactly the same without having So if you want to take a whole bunch of you can just select them all, then just rotate the images holding shift. So, the recap, 30 degrees, The pen tool is the heart of any the pen tool in Affinity Designer Adobe Illustrator with I've got the pen tool active in the top in our context menu we can stroke, and also a drop down for And we have some different modes, I'm there are a couple here like creating organic shapes, There's also polygon mode, drag which normally creates a curve, it just repositions you a corner, There's also line mode which doesn't actually close Then we also have a few options for curves, so if you wanna have everything you can turn that on and creating a new shape, it will We also have add new curve to selected just create a compound shape with a bunch You can play around with these options and I'm primarily just going to be using These options over here are also we'll get into these options but let's go ahead and So, for corners, with the pen mode active, you just have to click once and You can click and drag with pen mode And you can also option, or points that you've created before and Now, I want all corners for I'm just gonna click once and If you want to reposition these points, drag, so hold command and click and If you're doing curves, as long as the your mouse button held down, you can But again, I'm just gonna hold the Alt key and make sure it's just a corner, And then to close this shape, you can point, or you can go up here and This is really handy when you have you're having trouble getting it to this can be fast to just go ahead and Now, if you wanna reposition the points, you can temporarily activate the node So holding command allows you to click and gives you a lot of the same controls You're gonna have the ability to adjust You have the ability to hold Command and You can also hold Command then just use these buttons up If I drag that out and check that out. Command and You can click that sharp button So, as we're working with this, the node tool by holding And a rip position nice points. One thing that takes a little bit of move multiple points at the same Shift to get multiple points. And then release Shift, If you still hold Shift, So, you wanna really Shift and So, that looks pretty good. Now, I'm going to duplicate this shape. So, I'm gonna go back to the Move tool or And I wanna duplicate it. So, I'm gonna hold the Option key and drag that shape so And it's good to get in So, we call this the top iceberg. Now, that we have our two shapes here, fill in the body of that iceberg as well. So, I'm gonna go back to the pencil or And I wanna make sure that that I'm snapping to So, I'm gonna click the little And to make sure that we're I'm going to click this drop down. And I can use a preset. So, we have things like curb drawing and Curb drawing is what I want, but I'm also going to enable The default for curve drawing is only So, if I mouse over this, you can see But, it's not snapping So, let's go ahead and I want it to snap to shape key points. And we'll go ahead and enable snap So, turn that off and now you can see So, click here once. And again all these are gonna be corners. So, I'm gonna quickly, kind of quickly. To trough here and create the rough shape of the iceberg We will come back later and Now, I'm gonna close this shape and you can see what I mean about having So, you can click this Check next, I'm going to draw the bear and what I want the bear to look like. These kind of abstracted forms here. So, for that there's going to be So, it's gonna get a little I'm gonna zoom in here. I'm using the trackpad. You can also use the Option key. And your mouse wheel to zoom in. And the Spacebar, drag to pan around your document. So for the feet, in then here's a curve for the back. Here's another curve up And then a corner here for the ear. And another few corners go ahead and it doesn't snap to points And I'm doing all corners for the face 'cause it's a little bit And then go on add any want will go to keep Now that I've got the shape roughly in bit small. So, let's fix this with the note. And then a tool has a lot of We've got the convert to sharp, And then we also have actions for smoothing curves excetera. Cuz, I have a transform bounding box, We'll use that in a second and then we here that you can use for Along the same curve without activating This will only work on the selected curve. I'm not gonna be using those for use this transform box. Let's go ahead and select all these points We'll click the Transform Mode. You can see we get all of the same And I'm going to use the Transform Mode We also can use the same hot keys, so Command will scale is gonna drag this We can rotate head a little bit. We can see how handy this transform with multiple points all at once. We can scale this in a couple And this way I don't have to go in and It's really, really fast to work with. Next up is the corner tool. We're gonna skip past the contour tool for come back to that a little bit later. And we're gonna use this corner tool to of the bear. This is different than adding It's a little bit easier to manage since then the curve is gonna stay pretty much the same regardless of where we move So, let's have a look at how that works. I'm gonna add a little bit of So for instance, I'm gonna Click and You can see we've got this nice, But, don't need to worry about how those bezier handles are going The curve only applies to And we've got multiple different So, we have by default, We can also change that give them a little bit of a belly here. We can adjust how much gets applied there. It's a really, really fast way to work multiple besier handles per point. We just had this one point. So, I'm going to use I've also gonna add a rounded And to each of the feet, we're gonna it's a bit hard to see. So, I'm gonna zoom in here, just gonna round that one out And then I can go in with But for now, I'm gonna round all of these because it gives me a lot of control So some of them, I can keep fairly sharp, add a lot of roundness. I'm gonna hit Command And let's go back to the node tool. I'm gonna hit A on the keyboard for You can see that each of these have me that they have quarter adjustments It's also worth pointing out that But, all of the square nodes are corners. So, even though they're curved, they're still showing us square So, when I move these around, And this is just a really, Curvature without having to Let's move this back a little bit. You can also add points I'm just gonna add a point there and we create a little bit of a curve for We'll do the same thing there, let's move we can I can drag this out. So we've got another little curve for Now, if I wanna add some curvature into the corner tool, click and Now, if I bake appearance is these into Bezier curves, I'm just gonna select everything with So you can see now it's created all of how much we would have to manage to Which I don't wanna deal with that, And I'm just going to keep Hit Cmd+0 to zero out again. I'm gonna go back to the Move tool, We can see our shapes are coming together. We're gonna need to add some color to of grouping some of these shapes together Let's also name the bear, and The pencil tool is a great option for bit tedious or I'm gonna be using the pencil tool you can also use it with a mouse and The pencil tool basically draws vector You can set the stroke color and can set the width of stroke, you can do it later on through the stroke Pencil tool also has sculpt mode, it can be a bit confusing at times Basically it lets you additively or subtractively tweak We're going to do a little before we use the pencil tool, and I'm going to add some color to Activate the move tool or hit V on Make sure that the polar Make sure that your Color And if you don't see color panel, you and make sure that it's checked here. The color panel has an eye dropper. To use that, you basically just And you can see it's creating And you can see which pixel is I'm gonna use this image in the bottom getting something Gray Once you have the color sample, So there's the color sample here, stroke in the color panel. And to apply it, we just need then we'll add it as a fill. You can add it as a stroke if you want, then click that sampled We will leave the stroke black though, So I'm just gonna do Cmd + Z to undo that. Now that we have a color applied the bare for the shadow, So, let's deselect the bear, and we wanna make sure Clearly I have sculpts turned on, We'll use that in a second, but because it is going to affect The controller, I'm also going to activate which is a rope stabilizer, I'm going Right now it's 32.2 min, should be fine. I also have the options for autofill, So you'll wanna use those when sure that we don't do something And finally, I'm also going to What that means is that I'm gonna have the bare shape selected and add that as the shadow, and Finally, we need to go ahead and I'm gonna activate the fill again, I'm just gonna select some kind of a, I think that dark blue works for now. We'll go ahead and click that to apply it. It is important to make sure that otherwise it is gonna apply it. So if you accidentally applied you just need to deselect the bear and Now we're going to go ahead and select You can see, when I drag that across, fill that we just selected, Even though when we have the bear active, as soon as we start drawing, So, we grab the pen, and to the back of the bear and It's gonna be pretty smooth and it's gonna kind of swoop back down there. And since I have auto close active, it'll You can see, if I drag this just drag it off the barrier, But because we have it drawn while it's going to clip it to that bear. You can really clip anything to all you have to do is drag the shape So if we drag it onto the bear here and you can see that they And if I do anything with the bear, it'll bring that curve with it, since There are a couple of One of them is like we've just seen If you drag something onto the icon of and that's kind of like And then we've got the bear is I wanna undo that and make sure that Let's activate Sculpt Mode for just a With Sculpt Mode active, you'll see this a little bit hard to see, but it's this What you wanna do is just draw across and it will automatically tweak You can add to your shapes or It does take a little If you drag it out to like here, for instance, it's just gonna add So you wanna make sure that you start and And the shutter on the belly there, the shadow on the neck This is a really without having to get in there and While we're working with the pencil the bear. So again, We're gonna go the pencil tool, I'm gonna change the stabilizer And window mode is based on the speed of a fixed distance from It gives us a little bit more I'm also going to use the eyedropper So let's deselect the bear, then just the nose of the bear I'm gonna reselect the bear shape again, go back to pencil tool or And we can just draw our shape there has that black that we sampled, but we can And now all the other ships that we try ahead and hit Command zero to zoom out again we'll &gt;&gt; Struggling for a spark fire up the largest unlimited Find and download authentic graphics, Get seriously created. And go supernova with envatoelements. &gt;&gt; Next, let's have a look the vector paintbrush combines raster and It can paint raster strokes and Exporting these may not be supported So you might wanna experiment before But we'll go ahead and And we're gonna add a little I'll activate the paintbrush here, I'm gonna change the stabilizer Five up to about 35 for just select the color that we We can always change this later, but we're gonna be using blend modes So I'm just gonna start the same color So for color, we'll go ahead and use our color picker here and And then click that to activate the color. We also need to set our blend mode and I'm gonna set the blend mode to We'll set the controller to brush If it's set to none, So most brushes will default to We'll go into the brushes panel, And I'm going to use one of I think 128 should look good, but we can When I selected the brush, you'll notice that it also changed So let's go ahead and And we'll go back to layers. Make sure the bear is still selected and selection here just paint over but we can add multiple strokes Well just kind of add a bit more underneath the eye and nose shapes, here we'll select one of these Go to Select Same in do select all of the stroke we just made and So I'm gonna right click induced added bunch of these and I don't want to have I wanna be able to So we have a select by Now I'm gonna have to do Command G to Drag that underneath our shadow and It's not affecting those. And if I want, now I can go ahead and Select one of these, this time to select same. Fill color and we can change the color. We use the same color as the bear, but if we can go ahead and do that. We've added quite a bit of detail to add some color to the rest of the scene so that we can sort of fill in our I'm going to be using parametric and our sky and things like that. But before we get into using we want to discuss the power of parametric it's really one of the most And our toolbar you can see we've and then you may have a rounded But if you click and hold on this, anything with the little arrow you're gonna see that you have a whole So I am gonna go and create a polygon for the different controls that we So I'll release on Polygon and Just like the images that we worked holding the command or control key on holding shift keeps it proportional And I'm just gonna create And I'll zoom in on it a little Alt on Windows and my mouse wheel. In fact, there's one little If I drag that, it's going to create go ahead and And then let's look at the context we've got our fill and stroke, just like We also have some presets here so we can And let's go to set it to hexagon here. You can see that it's changed We can increase or And then we can also add curvature. So that's like dragging that We'll leave the curvature to zero, so that then let's go ahead and drag this again. You can see that the smooth points is just those corners. So instead of having sharp corners, we're Let's go ahead and burn that curvature Different parametric tools our polygon has a number of sides, We go back into this drop down list and try the crescent tool instead for We can drag this out, again, holding holding command to scale from the center. Let's just hold spacebar and And now we've got two one controls the curvature of the sign. And this one controls So if we wanted to create we can really quickly do that Now I do have snap turned on, we can check out our We've got very different controls here. So we've got left and right curves and We've already messed with our left and let's go ahead and click Mirror. You can see that that just flips We can click Negate, and that basically, So we had our crescent on the outside a circle, we're basically just I'm gonna clear these off of the screen So just gonna go back to the move tool, Delete them, And here I'm gonna be using just drag out a shape that's It's gonna scale this it goes completely outside of You can see that we have controls. Here too, we've got a single radius, we've got quarter settings. This is one of the most If you look at the rectangle and there's essentially no difference. It's just a different preset. So if we look at the presets we've got, we've actually got a rounded We also have a partially So whenever you create you're just creating a rectangle And let us when we did that we now get a whole bunch of Let's go back to just see how to get all of And this is just by unchecking this The single radius makes it so that all And you can also control that with But if we turn off single radius, we now have a different little And if I wanna make one corner really, And if I wanna make one corner curved and a different corner. So let's say top left instead of having bevel, we can do that too. So we can have really complex shapes here, If I go take this shape and all of that stays All of these are percentages, and so just based on the scale of If I want to turn this into something nodes, you'll notice if there's really nothing I can do with this. It's still the same as the Move tool, I'll just need to convert that will basically bake all of these And now we can drag these around and we can add curvature as And it's now editable. The advantage of doing parametric shapes Because we don't have to wrangle all move them around and We can just adjust a couple of settings position we set that shape to is It's gonna keep it We're gonna go ahead and Let's go ahead and the water in our background. Instead of black let's give I'm gonna use the color picker in my the watercolors from one of these images, think that kind of green We can always change this later, see what it looks like. So click that color to apply it. And as I go through this and I'm going to want to be So it's a good time to talk about I'm gonna drag the swatches panel out and we can see colors and When we first open it, the swatches panel we can click this drop down, we have a We have Pantone colors here, But for this I'm going to want And we have our recent colors, but these are going to get removed. So I wanna have something that reference and save colors too. So let's create a library for We have our little hamburger menu at we have different palettes We can create an application palette, There are some slight differences An application palette is going to documents that we have A system palette is gonna be more like want and then all the documents We're going to be using a document palette gives us access to a really And global colors essentially make it so of everything that has a swatch So we don't need to go and reapply that have it set as a color, we can just everything will get synced. So let's go ahead and create a document palette since it's We wanna name this iceberg, and right, we see we've got these two buttons here. One is Add Current Fill to Palette, and as a global color, and that's what So let's go ahead and select this And the current color is We've got the stroke and We wanna make sure that that fill going to be added as a global color. You'll notice when I switch it does also switch between fill and And we also have this So with this active and we're going to go ahead and click this Let's go ahead and we can see the difference between them. They are very small, but So a regular color swatch is just a global color swatch is gonna have this here in the corner. I'm going to undo to get rid of that, otherwise because I wanted to There are also lots of very quick ways So if we select an image or we can actually sample a color palette from image or The reason I haven't done this is that I of colors. When we create a color palette and we get all of the colors in there, and So I'm just going to create But this can be a very quick way to just you take a sunset photo or something like you just wanna have that ready to go, So now that we've got this color, See, creating the swatch is fun, but it hasn't actually applied So if I change the global color swatch, it's not going to change the object So let's go ahead and Now, that it's applied, you can see that means that it is We can select something We can see that swatch But now if I select that rectangle again, And if I deselect the rectangle and just double click on that swatch, HEX sliders, and I'm going to go ahead and just tweak this color a little bit. And even though I don't have that color, this rectangle is actually So we can go ahead and just make a little bit more cartoony so That's good, so Since it's a global color, Now, let's go ahead and We've got this rectangle already created. Let's go ahead and get rid of the stroke. And then I'm just going to duplicate So command J is going to create a copy, Again, let's sample a lighter blue. Something like that from And let's make this a little bit smaller. Now, I don't want this rectangle the rectangle underneath it, clip it to that rectangle underneath. That way, But once we clip it by dragging here in big it is, it's not going to extend beyond Now, no matter how big it is, it's not going to extend beyond the bounds So this is a pretty good lighter color, So we can go ahead and Let's expand our rectangle. Select it. And, again, Here, it will create a global color. And then, as always, that it is linked to that shape. Now that we have the water created, add some detail to the icebergs. We could start filling in colors there. I'm going to hold the option key or Alt on Windows and I just wanna make sure that the top the duplicate, they're above I'll go ahead and move the bottom part the layer stack. I'm going to be using So let's go ahead and activate pen tool, That will just make it a little bit We're going to be joining this all the vector flood fill tool over here. And all we need for They don't have to be connected, So as long as they're touching, In order to facilitate that, So I already have my snap settings That means that snap to everything else is turned off, But I have some additional snap So we're going to leave the first one off we're going to make sure to turn on selected curves, and the align handle positions So now that we have all of that set up, we've got our snap settings turned on. I'm just going to go down here. And you can see by the yellow highlight And we're just going to create some lines. Since I'm in line mode, it's just going to leave open lines. And they're disappearing as I draw them, the stroke applied, but we can see that it So I'm gonna hold shift and We'll just apply a black stroke to those. All right, now that we've got these break that curve for the lower part of the I know we closed that curve we're gonna go ahead and So let's switch to the node tool and I'm gonna click once along that the iceberg there. Just like we have a button for break curve. So I'm gonna go ahead and Whatever node is selected when we click nodes. And I'll just delete those. Now that we've got all of that stuff group all of these lines, and So I'm going to select the top iceberg curves and bottom iceberg, and As long as we have this group active, the vector flood fill tool will recognize When we use the vector flood fill tool, actually going to create new So we have a fill active here, I'm going So let's go ahead and double-click that. In the color chooser here, we'll just make that kind of a nice And I'll edit the colors once It's a little bit faster But all we need to do is drag So I want this corner and I want this corner and this shape here so I'm just gonna drag across those. You can see in the layers sack, it's Go ahead and select the group again, We can go ahead and just click here to want to click and drag across those So now we've got four rectangles. Now that we have our shapes in place, I've got highlights on the right and So we'll continue that general theme. This rectangle on the far right So I'll go ahead and move on to the next And we'll use the color picker just select something fairly dark Move on to the next rectangle and This will be a little bit lighter. We'll click Apply, and then we'll finish Okay, now, let's just create global colors for Just select the shape and then click Create global color And add global color. Then we'll add a global color. And finally, add global color. And then, of course, we need to make We'll start with the top And I wanna fill that I'm just going to select it, and then we'll click that But I do wanna have a little bit the one below it. If I move to the Color panel, we only and I'm just going to bring that down When we do that, though, and I switch back has that color applied, but it's like I'm just going to click this to then click that new one to make Let's deselect everything, and color that we applied to We'll switch that to HSL Sliders, so it's a little bit easier Tweak it and make sure that it is Let's do the same with this one. We'll just tweak the color a little bit. Double-click, and make it a little bit more And then this one here, again, see which color is applied to it, And we'll just make that So we've got a little bit It's a little bit more cartoony. But since it's global colors, tweak these as we reuse them. Now, that we have the colors applied, we can start to use those same colors Since they're global swatches, everything else will update. I'm going to start to tweak this And you can follow along with that or it's really up to you. But I'm going to first just tweak these points a little bit. When we're happy with the shape of draw some lines, just like we did on this and then we'll use that Vector Flood Fill So I'm gonna go back to the Pen tool. It's still on line mode, which is perfect. And I'm just gonna look at some of the want my highlights to be and And you can break this You can just click on these points and I know that this is all I'm gonna go ahead and do that there. I know that this here kinda I need to figure out And a handy trick for that, is to triangulate the shape So I'm just going to go down to there. And then we know roughly So if I triangulate like that, we can And then we got these three And then this can be a little shadow area. Now that we have the lines kinda highlights, we can group then use that Vector Flood Fill So let's go ahead and take all of add them to the group. While we're at it, let's also take we're gonna separate that out and So I'm just gonna duplicate this. And that way, So we'll take the fill off of this one, click that little cross line And select the other one switch to the stroke, and We'll make Fill active again, and and we'll put that with Now that we have a group we're gonna activate that and So let's click on the little paint bucket. I'm going to activate that lighter color I'm gonna go ahead and highlight We're gonna use that really, the left side, for We'll use this kind of medium We'll use this kind of slightly this one here, and also for this one. So if you accidentally forget to drag undo and then just drag across, and As we're drawing this, it reminds me like a highlight just So I'm gonna go back to the Pen tool and just draw a line from top to bottom there. Now, we will have that All right, Make sure the group is active. Go back to the Vector Flood Fill we're going to make all So I'm going to select that dark blue and And then I'm going to use just drag across those guys right there. And then for this part right here, really dark color as well. Now, that we've done that, kind of three dimensionality But I also still need to kind of set this We don't wanna have the iceberg We wanna have the top of So to do that, we're going to have to Now, I've got all these different shapes. We'll need to group them by the ones that are on the bottom. So that should be pretty straightforward. I'm just gonna go back to the Move tool, all of these pieces that are part part of the type Top iceberg and And we'll just call this top filled. We'll do the same thing for all the pieces We'll select all those just click one, then hit Cmd+G to group those. We'll name this the bottom filled. Now I just wanna bring these into We'll bring the bottom filled this kind of the top we'll take this top filled and So now we've got them separated. And if we wanna go and select these It's gonna be kind of clumsy to have select the other ones. So, a quick way to do this if you doesn't really matter But if you do have a lot of shapes, name them something similar. So instead of bottom filled and top filled just call them iceberg. We can change the name by just by right-clicking and But I'm going to double-click on that and And before I click out of it, to Cmd+C to copy that then now we'll just Now if I select one of these and It's gonna select both of those. So we can't have them grouped because we But we can have the same name and Now, we also want to separate out keep the lines in here we're But I don't want to have them kind of So let's go ahead and We have the top iceberg already and then we've got all of the vertical So I'm just gonna hold Cmd and We're gonna hit Cmd+X to cut those. We'll open up that rectangle, I'm just gonna do Cmd+V to paste And I'll hit Cmd+G to group them. Now I can take all these I'm just gonna drag them So now we've got the lines we've got these lines extending here. We also wanna clean this up a little bit. I don't wanna have all of these little I'm gonna go ahead and double-click on You can get into a group of lines by just and that'll open up the group for you. And this one here, Okay, perfect. To get rid of these little corners. I just need to break this curve. So we have the two top spring copies. And all I need to do is select this And just like we did before, So I'm going to go to the Node tool, With that node selected, hit break curve and Do the same thing over here. We'll select that then hit break curve and then Delete that node and delete that. We also have these little nodes up here So now we have the outlines, So let's go ahead and we can look at the Brush Tool again. Just like we used for the highlight on a bear to add So let's go ahead and we'll name the bottom group When we're working with groups it's the group will override the colors I have the group selected and no stroke applied to this group. If I open this up though, each one of I don't need to change every single the group. I'll select the top outlines hold Cmd and then I'll just apply this That'll make all those outlines brighter, Nope, we also need to delete Don't have that guy in there, okay. Now that we have the color applied, Let's go ahead and hide our references, Now that we have the color applied, let's them kind of a little bit of texture and So I'll select top outlines on Cmd or get the bottom outlines here. I'm gonna go to brushes and we have all but I'm gonna use inks and Now, this is a little bit large and So we can go into the stroke we can go into our stroke panel, The width is a little bit much, We have a bunch of different So we can have solid line is We also have dash line that'll And then we have the textured and brushed We have width, which gives us Caps aren't really going to apply we can have rounded caps or The join is going to control corners. Wherever we have a corner node on a curve that's going to adjust how The default is to have a round join, We also have an alignment. So for closed shapes, if we wanna have just on the center of the path, The default is to have it centered, which is you can either behind the fill and the default Since we don't have a fill on these, So I'm gonna go ahead and The start and end settings are handy for we can add little decorations to these. But I'm going to go ahead and Because I have the properties which is pen pressure. And we didn't use a pen to create these. It's not really gonna have we can actually change the pressure So even though I didn't use can still add some pressure to them. So, to do that, You can see this is the start and then everything else is You can't move the start without also gonna have the same value. But if you wanna have really you can just drag those all the way down. I'm gonna drag them fairly low, And then I'll add some maybe a little bit thinner and a little Now if we adjust the width profile here, you can see that that's going still factoring in the line weight And we can still change these is gonna honor that pressure and Let's go ahead and go back to the brush that jagged ink, and Now let's add a little bit of We can open up our properties here and So based on the pressure curve, But then we also have opacity variance, I'm just gonna crank this So that means that it's going to not to fade out and we'll have some other but I'm gonna go ahead and Every time we make a change, it is a width back to the default, We'll go ahead and And then we also have the ability We're gonna leave that for don't wanna make it too complex, but you here and then change that to not only Let's go back to the Layers Panel though, with those two groups selected, One modes are great for adding character with each other and just makes things I'm gonna set these all that will change the color of the stroke So everything fits together a lot color on top of that fill color behind it. Now that we've got the colors let's go ahead and add a little bit This will help create that kind of in this reference where the light is going Set in zero to zoom back out. I'm gonna go ahead and And you can lock layers and entire groups and then clicking the little lock, Now we can no longer And you don't have to worry We'll do the same thing with We'll just click that little light button. Just like we did before, top, and then I'll go ahead and fill in We'll start off with the lightest let's activate the gradient tool and So you'll notice with the gradient tool, my color panels open, but We only have color. It doesn't tell us whether it's And that's because a gradient Right now it's context is set to fill and That's what we want. We also have a type. So we've got a solid, and So a solid color is what's already there. I'm gonna change this to linear. And you can see as soon it's actually changed the fill for me. Now we've got this little slider here so We can also adjust the interpolation and how it gets applied with So have a look at a couple of the other I'm gonna be using linear but So the elliptical gradient by default it's gonna create a circular The only difference between elliptical and elliptical gives us this extra handle so narrow, or we can squish it this way and I want to go ahead and So, to do that, we need to hold control on Windows, and you can see we're getting basically As I move this around, you can see We can do the same thing with this one. We can drag this one in and We look at radial, we've essentially we don't have the extra set. And it looks almost the same it is creating a circular For all these, I'm just gonna use linear I'll drag that across You do need to be careful because at drag a swatch out of the swatches it will crash designer. So we don't wanna do that. Instead we can apply our colors One way is to open up we can click on either one of these And then we can use our sliders here or But that's a little bit tedious. I don't wanna mess with that. That seems like overkill. So instead, gradient tool to activate one Make sure it's selected, and I'm gonna be using the colors So we're going to use the lighter and then for the darker color. Click this one and Now, this is kind of backwards. So up here at the top, we also have the reverse gradient. So I'm just gonna click reverse and the darker colors on the other side, then That looks fine. I'm gonna go ahead and Now with the gradient tool active, You do wanna make sure that it that we've got the correct thing selected. And then we can just click and drag, Now, it's applied different colors, but we can go ahead and It's gonna be closer to this And then I'll select this original kind of dark green color, Just drag that over a little bit, and So let's go ahead and do that again. We'll drag our gradient across the main color is gonna be that same We'll activate that, but then right next So I'll activate that, just drag All right, and then finally, drag our gradient along that. And the main color is gonna then I have this highlight down here and So the main color is already We'll click the other not here and we'll I'm just gonna use slider to So this has given me this nice I'm not super thrilled with so I'm gonna go ahead and We'll double click on that and And since this is a global color, our just flat fills, but it's also going to affect So super handy and let's go ahead and I think something like that, I think that's probably good. To add the noise to this we're going up here. So I'm going to just double click on this selected, we can see our fill here, make We can see the color here, now I can add noise to each Unfortunately, when I do that though the global color. But we'll create separate swatches for the gradient once we've To add the noise we'll just go into the color settings, and I'm not gonna drag it all the way up, We'll do the same thing We'll select it, a little bit less for the lighter colors. And when we're happy with that, click this Add Current Fill to Palette. And so now we have this swatch that has Let's go ahead and do the same So as soon as I select that one, I'm going to go ahead and open up Again, we'll leave it we'll make the noise a little stronger for And when we're happy with that, same thing with this one. There are other ways to add noise, And if you create the swatch first and it turns it into a regular fill. Even though it's a little bit it unfortunately is kind of Okay, now that we have all these gradients here, we can go ahead and apply them to I'm gonna go ahead and pan down. Holding the space bar, then click again to make sure Now, instead of going in and I can just click the swatches and So I have this really light one Let's select this darker color, we go ahead and then use that You've got a medium to kind of light blue, this kind of medium green, and I'm just And actually this is So we'll go ahead and adjust that. To use this color instead, unfortunately, go into our swatches and And I'll go ahead and save this as Now that we have our gradients applied apply it to the water. We'll go ahead and collapse everything and I'm going to just create We'll drag this Down, we're gonna use on the top part here, we will use We'll go ahead and I'm going to do the same thing for using a slightly lighter gradient, We'll go ahead and We give it an elliptical gradient fill. For this one we will use this one on the outside here we'll Actually we'll go with For this one here at the center it will almost white, blue. And then for these on the outside we'll And remember, hold the Ctrl key to And we can go ahead into just give this a little Great, now I'm going to add a little bit So I'm just gonna select the artboard and click that lightest blue, I can go So I'll use my gradient tool and So we have the lightest blue at We've been kind of bringing the level the polar bear but now we've kind of gone beyond the level So let's go ahead and tweak the polar bear a little bit and So I'm gonna go ahead and select the bear. You have the fill already on here but make that a gradient as well. So of course we're a gradient tool. Just go across, I'm gonna change that to I'm just going to use my sliders though, just go ahead and And you can see even though it we're the strokes for the highlights here. And looking at my reference, we can see color and generally it's kind So we'll factor that into our colors and We can also add a little bit of so that it matches the rest. And let's go ahead and Subtle gradients like that and Really go a long way to making kind of breaking up that Let's go ahead and So I'm just gonna select set the stroke to active, and And finally, let's set the shadow of So I'm gonna use one of these So let's bring in one of these blues here. There's panel out, and Let's also adjust the opacity. It's a little bit strong, so we can thinking instead of that green color, Affinity Designer has adjustment layers, but it also has effects which can You can get to the effects in We have the quick effects panel, but we also on the layers panel So let's go ahead and select the shadow. Then click the Effects button here, and that's gonna bring up this We have a whole bunch of you can get into all of these and For now, kinda give you a rundown of One that I use a lot is Gaussian blur. So we'll go ahead and select that. To make it active, And it's still not doing anything to our blur. I'll just increase the radius. And that's gonna give us Let's go ahead and close that. And let's just bring the opacity I'll hit the A key on the keyboard to adjust the position of some of these nodes This is essentially creating a gradient, it's just creating a gradient in using the linear sliders or Underneath the bear, we'll go ahead and So let's just draw that in. I'm going to use the pen tool, and use the smart mode to create And I'll just kinda click a couple of times here to make a nice rounded shadow. We'll go ahead and fill that with one of these darker And I'm going to clip So we'll need to grab this curve, through the layer stack until Drag it onto that and then clip it. And then I'm going to do the same thing add some effects to that. So we'll click Effects. Again, using the same Gaussian blur, we'll just increase the distance on that. And then we'll also change the blend it's not quite so strong. Let's also use one of one of the gradient swatches And we'll take the opacity down as well. Hit Cmd+0 to zoom back out. Finally, we just wanna create a bit And I wanna use that to show you how the really, really powerful tool, We'll duplicate the top of the iceberg and So I'm gonna go into the iceberg group. Select the top of the iceberg. We'll just hit Cmd+J to duplicate it. Drag that outside of the iceberg and We're also gonna go ahead and we don't accidentally select that. We're also going to lock We don't wanna accidentally Now let's change the name of this we know what we're working with, get rid of the curve that we've Don't worry, it's still there We just don't see it here. So let's drag this underneath I'm also gonna go to the Move Tool, hide all of our references. We don't need all that stuff. We'll zoom in a little bit and and then I'm just gonna drag Now, I'm gonna hide the bear and we can see this a little better. So we'll hide the bear and So we can see this shape I'm gonna switch to the Node Tool and the nodes, and That will give us a nice Now that we've got this, And we're gonna create Unfortunately, the order that compound shapes and work groups and Because you can take a work group and then put it into a compound So we'll take our shape here. I'm just gonna hit Cmd+J to duplicate it. And I'm gonna make the one Select that one. We'll go to our Move Tool. I'm gonna hold Cmd and Shift and Doesn't need to be much, In the layer stack, So select one, hold Shift or Now, I'll go to Layer, and Let's expand this compound We can see we've got our And just the left of this curve, tiny plus sign that matches So this is a Boolean operation this is not a destructive This is still live. And I'll show you what I mean by that. Let's go ahead and Instead, I've got specular selected. You'll notice too we don't have We only have options for We'll have options for all of the shapes that stack on top if but we only have these options for We'll change this to subtract, and you can see now it's knocking a hole This is still alive shape though. So I can do all sorts of things with this. If I go in here and scale it or move it around, This is a really fun tool to combine it with a contour tool to do some create kind of liquidy effects. So let's use that contour tool We'll select the bottom We'll grab our contour tool and So we will also take this base layer and I'm gonna go to my move tool and kind of squish it down vertically and You can also hold the Ctrl Scroll key and kind of rotate it around a little bit Now that we've done that, Go back to our contour tool and you can see how we get this like Now that we've created the compound, We'll hit Command J on the keyboard and Compound Shapes by holding Shift to So we've got bullins nest within bullins. So let's expand this out. We'll select the duplicate We'll select the subtractor I'm gonna go to the Move tool and we'll just change the shape Instead of having it cutting vertically, So it's a little bit narrower and So it's cutting that direction. Now, let's go ahead and I'm just going to go into the contour and Select our other compound, and And then we can select the entire compound I'm gonna go ahead and just scale it up slightly so that we've got kind of a couple Now we'll bring back the iceberg and all the other stuff that we hid earlier. And now I can take this compound and And it's not kind of overlapping I'm also going to adjust So we'll change the blend mode for and we'll select a slightly And that's it for our highlights. On the surface of the water and now we can go ahead and export this. I do want to make a couple of final and just scale the bear iceberg in So I'll expand the rectangle collapse all of these extra bits. And I'm going to say select the iceberg. The bottom outlines are compound shape. The iceberg, top outlines, and we'll give it a tag. They use the blue tag. Let's also unlock everything. I'll select the bear. Go back to select same tag color. And now we can go ahead and Get them holding shift. You can see since we're selecting by tag color it's really easy to All right that looks good. I think we are ready to go ahead and The export persona does not have nearly designer persona. But it is kind of a nice workspace for making sure that it's all exported to There are a few different ways One is to work with Artboards that you which is what we have here. And that's going to create slices. You can also create slices So if you have a bunch of different it's all in one artboard, you can do that. But for me, I like to work with artboards as much as So we've got the artboard selected. Here, we have the entire document and If you have multiple artboards since I have just the one, wanna make And you can click that it's gonna treat this report as a slice. We can also expand this out and We can add multiple We have some export options up here, but I'm going to be using So we'll say we do wanna go ahead and That's good for Of course PNGs are great Let's go ahead and So we'll add an additional PNG. Now we can use this preset to maybe So that's basically going to original format of the 1080 by 1920. Let's go ahead and add, get another Let's go ahead and change this to an SVG. And we have a few different options for So we can compress everything and which is going to take all of our lines So that we don't have all the effects and We're gonna go ahead and One more and we'll go ahead and We have our path here. So when we click this, this lets us define we've got some variables we can use to So we've got the document name and we've got the slice name. So we're gonna drag tokens up here. Document name, document file and Done, and I'm gonna go ahead and slices with that entire When we export slices it's gonna I'm just gonna go into my We'll make a new Folder, we'll call Let me bring finder over here. And it's put everything into a folder. If I created my own folder it by default So let's go ahead and close this. And we'll move on to project 2 and Affinity Designer has some pretty So we're gonna explore We're also going to have a look capabilities that we have available So let's go ahead and get our I'm going to go up to Window and then So I've got my default panels back. And then I'm also going to and open the Character panel. Just dock that over here on the left. We'll also go to Window, Text and And there's a doc that over Now let's create a new document, And again, we'll create another And this time I'm going to leave it just click Create. When it comes to text in Affinity There's the Text Frame Tool, And then we also have The Art Text Tool is that's what I primarily use when since it's a little bit easier it comes to scaling your texts and The Text Frame Tool is great for I typically do that kind of work So with the Art Text Tool active, and whatever size we get when we drag, We can see up here at we will go ahead and type in our text. In this product, we are going to a blog a few weeks ago. So let's set the font for this. To set the font, all we need to do we can either adjust the font from here or But I'm going to just stick since there's quite a bit We have decoration controls, position and We also have spellcheck language and So if I wanted to change the spellcheck we can do that here. But I'm also going to do the basic all that other stuff here on the Character So instead of Ariel let's I'm just going to type that in and change the weights to heavy and actually Now I'll put this roughly Next we'll use the Text Frame So click and hold on the artistic texts we'll change to frame text tool. And I'm just gonna drag out And we'll type in the text that Now this is considerably smaller and when I dragged that box up we didn't It's just given us the default If we wanna change the size of this, then go to font size and make it bigger. It's a little bit clunky when we're doing just focused on a few words, working with paragraphs and We're gonna be using Tungsten for I'm just gonna use the regular We've got all lowercase letters, but So we'll open up So this where we've got some of superscript and subscript and then we Now, I can use this text frame tool to break all this text to different lines. When I scale the box down, it's just gonna break it to more lines. Great for working with paragraphs, working with text that I wanna But fortunately, forth between Artistic Text and All we need to do is select our text box, go up to the Layer menu, and You can see the box is now when I scale this up by dragging The keyboard shortcuts for vector shapes that we worked Holding command it will shift will keep things proportional. Or it will actually make it so you can squish things depending I'm just going to hold Cmd, and we'll put this roughly in the center. Let's hide Futura for a second, and So Artistic Text still has all the same a Text Frame, and So if I click Center Align, it's going We can also go up to position and to decrease the letting to bring You're gonna hold Shift this will give you greater You can also release shift and You can also release shift and get more Now, I want to adjust the size of they kind of take up the entire To do that, I'm just gonna break this up So we'll just select rectangle, I'll delete that extra paragraph break and hit the Select tool again, and When I paste this text, by default, it's going to paste it as a frame So we'll need to go ahead and Go back down to Convert to Art Text again. Now, unfortunately since I had converted it to artistic text, So let's undo a couple stages. We'll expand that frame out. So you wanna always make sure that where you convert it. Now I'll go back to layer, Now let's align both of So I'm gonna select one, and We'll go to our align panel here, And I'll scale these up to kind of holding Shift, and see that we've So let's just switch to Instead of regular tungsten, And we can also change I'm gonna be clipping So I do want it to be pretty chunky. We'll go ahead and tungsten condensed to tungsten narrow. And then we'll change rectangle word from Tungsten is a great font because really creating nice thick, chunky text. Let's bring this down so it's kind of bleeding off And then we'll just scale it up. So it's almost touching the top line. We'll scale the top line up until it's And then we can either add a little we can just stretch them out to fill I'm going to do the latter rather than So I'm just gonna select them both. We're gonna drag them all drag them all the way over Now let's go ahead and fit this top it's bleeding off, and we're good to go. So let's go ahead and bring in I'm gonna click the place tool, Barbara Kruger image from the blog Now I'm going to just it's taking up pretty This is leaving us very little DPI. We're all the way down to 63 DPI, but we're gonna be adding some And it's kind of the look to have kind of a raw So we want this to be pretty much centered We'll drag this image down And let's just position it I wanna clip this image to the text, because I've put the text it's not really gonna work to do that. I would have to expand the text something like that. And then I would lose my ability which I don't wanna do that. If I grouped the text selecting both of them and dragging this image onto the group is It's not actually going to If I drag it onto one of the text layers, it only does it with one So neither of those options Instead, I'm gonna keep I'm going to use it as To add a mask, instead of dropping it on the layer we're going to drop it on And this is kind of a crucial difference. Now, instead, We can have multiple masks Now that we've kind of got the image here being clipped to the text, Just select it, hit Cmd+J, and we're gonna go through and So I'm gonna expand that out, Let's bring this back If I hide this duplicate image, we can But let's go ahead and bring them back. And we're going to be using some blend kind of effect where the image I'm going to select this image, we're gonna be using Blend modes require some sort of So let's go ahead and We'll go to the artboard tool, And now that we have an artboard, give that artboard a fill color. So let's go up here to We already have the fill active, and By dragging any of these sliders, By applying a white fill here, we can already see that Now, if I wanna see more of that image, all I have to do is See that image is starting kind of ghosts throughout Now that we've done that, And it's kinda hard to see that word, so let's create a rectangle to frame it. I'm gonna select the rectangle tool, It really doesn't matter what size it is to make it exactly the size of our Let's go ahead and select the rectangle. And I'm going to use my color the same red as the rectangle Let's go ahead and get rid of the stroke. We'll go back to the fill here. And while we're at it, still kinda hard to read. Let's go ahead and bring our rectangle its blocking all that stuff out. Now, we want the rectangle to It is important to know that whatever we everything else gets scaled to. If we select the text first, that means the text size, not the other way round. So we'll select our text first, We're gonna go up to the align panel here, center it vertically, I'm just going to center And then down here at the bottom, we're going to make same width and make Make same is really, fits that rectangle to the bounding Now, we're going to need to give and we could scale the rectangle up, but that's gonna look a little If I hit movie to go to the move tool and scale this up, it gets pretty wide but So I'm just gonna undo that and instead, I'm going to use the contour tool to We don't want round corners for instead I'm going to select Now we've got nice, now that we've done that, let's give we still have it selected and active. I'm gonna go up to the fill and I'm gonna select the red color, then just add a bit of noise to that. For this nut, I'll just open up color select some color from Apply that, we just wanna be able to add a little so we've got our noise applied and Now I'd like to be able to see unfortunately, if I use blend to see that of the original image We're going to switch over start painting in some textured masks. In the pixel persona, we have a completely and all of these tools are for This doesn't have the kind of depth so you're not going to want to use this Background and But it does have the decent painting and Appear at the top we've got our selections We also have a freehand lasso and also a flood select, which is kind Then we've got our painting tools like erase tool, that's what we're gonna be We also have a full one tool, making things lighter and darker, which is great for painting, And then of course, the view tool, which is for our Zoom tool, which we don't use those I'm going to be painting with my drawing a drawing tablet, that's fine you can So I'm going to switch to the brush tool, we'll be mask layer button that will add So with that mask selected, For this, I'm just gonna select I'm gonna be using the half Let's go back to the layers panel, and I'm going to make this brush And if we look up here at the top, including wet edges and Just like every other brush we have a stabilizer I'm going And if we tap more, this is gonna how our brush works with the pressure and I'm gonna leave these as default, because I just want to brush So I'm just lightly brushing onto this and you can see how it's revealing And the harder I press, the more aft a nice bit of texture and what is Let's add a bit of texture to so I'm just going to select that image, it'll add a second mask in And let's change brushes. The brushes I'm gonna be using for I'll just activate that again, I'm going to make this just I'm going to decrease the flow just you get a little preview of what it's I'm just going to lightly brush over parts of the text that does it for working with text and affinity designer. Before we wrap this tutorial up though, there are a couple of funnel First, let's go to window and open the resource manager resource getting information about all the files By default, it embeds images. When we wrote this Barbara Kruger it actually embedded it in the file. We do have the option to make it linked. And that can be really handy if you you don't want to deal with your system just doesn't You can also use linked images if you're you want those changes to also Clicking on this, you get quite a bit of well, we get the name, the status. If the file has been moved, for instance, if we expand this out here, we can see and it also shows us which It shows us the placement is embedded, then also the placed DPI. Since I made those images quite we have a very low DPI, For print, we also have some like the original DPI of 2. And we can find that in Finder if it's just gonna show us the location For linked images, you can click Collapse throughout your system it will bring them all together and And then you also have which means you can take an embedded and it will just separate it out Let's go ahead and close this and So for instance, we've got this little sound MIDI keyboard And this is not just a raster PNG, fully editable vector artwork customize change the colours change the We're gonna go ahead and delete that. As you work in affinity designer having Speeds things up, and Get great assets and then add them to your drag them into your project without having That concludes our course on if you found that helpful or subscribing really helps us out. Of course if you have any questions, I will try to get back to You can also reach out to me personally Until next time, have been true and [MUSIC]