The horse archers of the east were known whose coming struck fear into the hearts of certainly tell us what it was like to be on the capable of providing details about the faceless In this series, it will be our goal of these eastern warriors. Today, let you can learn much more about the ferocious horse their series warriors way does a fantastic job including the norse scots celts romans and episode on the fierce warriors of the step see them in the flesh with demonstrations of documentary videos like this are added weekly to 3000 videos to choose from among the categories can watch warriors way or any documentary that description below or going to try.magellantv.com The Sassanid Horse Archers were the inheritors to the first Indo-European settlers It is in these early years that people of the of archery and horsemanship which would race was underway among the various powers This was further accelerated by frequent always on the bleeding edge of horse archery. scattered soldiers were transformed These would feature prominently in the militaries the east with each incarnation of the horse Unfortunately a comprehensive study of this We will therefore have to skip over the and be satisfied with discussing the during the fall of the Parthians The former had been established in of the eastern Iranian tribe known as the In time his dynasty would expand across the Achaemenid Empire. As such they were able to wield of holding their own against the Romans. However, rule was far more decentralised than that of the of their rule was often subject to crippling these episodes, in the early 3rd century AD, that Pars from which he staged a revolt and then a Doing so was not just a feat of great military of the former Parhtian Empire were now While the descendants of Ardashir would reign of Sasan would rely to a great degree on the Chief among these were the 7 Great Parthian prior administration. Keeping them in line was This appears to have been done by and more robust means of domestic manifestations of this power was the As with the earlier Parthians, its core was known as the Savaran. Drawn largely from the upper and at range. This body was in turn supported Unlike the Parthians, these featured a greater proportion of infantry. A thorough exploration covered in another video. For now let us look These hailed from a wide variety of locations, For the sake of simplicity, such horse archers based on their origins. The first from the provinces of the historical and while the second group were those which came The core of the Eirean included the whose militarised noble families provided much Surrounding these were other important regions included the important warrior tribes of Gelan, Yet further afield would be the peoples of the The Caucasus for instance were a prominent with the Khazars, Alans, Svants, Sabirs and also worked hard to secure the support of Central Hsiang-nou related peoples like the Hephthalites, group but all were united by a common way of life Let us now take a look at how Again it must be stated that this subject to the particularities will nonetheless endeavour to For starters, most soldiers would have a knee-length tunic that was bound with a belt. The pointed kulah hat appears to have been For many of the lighter cavalry, this Speed, agility, and endurance would have Yet we have many depictions of horse archers particularly among the nobles of the Savran. more advanced combined-armour styles. Additional shin and forearm. Helmets meanwhile were also reveal many conical and ridge helmets with reveal an increase in more sophisticated pieces wealth of the warrior, these may have been inlaid For offense, the primary weapon of a known to the Persians as the Kaman. Its core wood with animal horn being added to the The bow was then painted and oiled. Such being favored for their strength, flexibility, of time. As a backup, Savaran horse archers are This was all carried in a dedicated bow case in their own quiver or tirdan). This is to be of housing both in a single gorytos case. these individual items across their body they would adopt the lappet suspension system Sassanid arrows or tigr usually measured around and feathered fletchings. Heads varied widely and barbed designs appearing commonly in these arrows, horse archers used all manner One fascinating piece of kit was the nawak. It allowing one to overdraw a projectile. Researchers which could be carried in far greater Other weapons carried by horse archers anywhere from simple daggers to axes, Considering that heavy cavalry often served As for the horse's gear, early riders used By the late 500s AD stirrups began to an unprecedented level of stability, which With the stirrup, not only could a mounted they were also able to even more efficiently Defensively, light cavalry wore very heavier variants used quilted or metal-scale with additional pieces added to protect Thus equipped, let us see how these soldiers With regards to training, we know that After all many came from nomadic or semi-nomadic mastery of the horse and bow. Here is how a "the little boys start out learning to ride sheep and when they get a little older all the young men are able to use While this level of commitment was not practical was deeply embedded into the culture of the east. strove to instill this sort of drill into their have trained from the ages of 5 to 24. They wrestling, archery, spear throwing and physical conditioning, discipline, and teamwork. would often be instructed by professional aspwaregan. It was a highly prestigious role whose Such personnel could be seen in regular military villages and cities across the realm to keep Once youths had reached a sufficient they would then be allowed into For the elite Savaran this meant undergoing service through constant exercise in warfare and and arrow play further built up their skills. But many knights were also drilled in intellectual logic games, song, dance, poetry, and more. Many which in many cases rivaled or When it comes to organization it is likely that the one employed by the earlier Achaemenids. The led by a Vasht-salar, ten of which formed a unique heraldry and battle standards These were likely led by officers with the title The largest division in the Sassanid that likely had around 10,000 men. manner of additional support staff meant Auxiliary units and mercenaries meanwhile than those of the Sasanian Savaran. This issue was officers to such forces to supervise them and So what would this have looked like in battle? Tactically speaking such a diverse force as to it depending on which foe they were matched fought in a similar manner to the Parthians. As and would have been deployed ahead of the army Researchers estimate these were capable meaning that within 1 minute a full Sassanid Gund target area with 60,000 arrows. Typical range for precise targeting would be done within 50 meters. and soften up formations for more dedicated stubborn units might be drawn out by feigned using the Parthian shot before eventually being be rinsed and repeated until victory was achieved Variants of this tactic certainly existed, The way it worked is that a first wave of to cluster together. Then a second wave of horse And finally a third wave of lancers would The advantage of this approach was that it conditions and in doing so a fatal weakness inexperienced troops but so long as a disciplined Over time, the habitual rivals of the Sassanid Its for this reason that we see the meant deploying a wider mix of troop types and elephants. By the 6th century AD this led Here horse archers might screen or attack the right. Another notable change archer and lancer into a single composite warrior Beyond this horse archers could be employed in a rear guards, or tactical reserves. Let's now A thorough accounting will be impossible overview of their far reaching campaigns. In begun with the 3rd century AD revolt of culminated in the battle of Hormozdgan in clashed in the open plains. Horse archers almost but it was ultimately the charge of the In the decade that followed, his horse in the bid to take over the By the year 231 these would have reached the raids against Roman Mesopotamia. Emperor Severus This proved initially successful in the but encountered significant troubles once Herodian describes the climax of the campaign "Ardashir attacked the Roman army unexpectedly in a net. The outnumbered Romans were unable they used their shields to protect those Persian arrows. Content merely to protect As a result, all the Romans where they made a wall of their shields and fought every side, they held out bravely as long as Over the following years, Sassanid and Roman across their contested border. The tide began Shapur the first who defeated Emperor Emperor Philip at the battle of Barbalissos, and Unfortunately history leaves us with no for these glorious affairs. However we a key role in achieving victory by way of the By this point the Sassanids had rightly earned sought to adopt eastern ways of war as a means to Byzantine wars which broke out during the 5th of these struggles would take place as the series of campaigns against King Kavad. Here ambushes, feigned flights, pit traps, But it wasn't just against the Byzantines frequently fought massive wars against Invading armies of the White Huns precipitated cavalry on cavalry battles of epic On other fronts the Sassanids engaged with yet Initial campaigns and the building of new these various foes at bay but by the 7th century This apparent weakness was identified by the devastating invasion. Unfortunately we are left of the Persian Horse Archers in the stubborn they and the Sassanid Empire would fall. Yet For centuries to come their descendants of horse and bow under the banner of Islam. But We hope you've appreciated this exploration of Sassanids and their impressive military. to see covered next and be sure to head sneak peeks of upcoming content and A big thanks to the current Patrons for writers, and artists for making this episode more content and check out these other