- This is $1 in penny. This is $20. This is $100 in pennies. That is $1,000 in pennies. This is $2,000. This is $10,000 in pennies. Give or take like five And this is $20,000 in pennies. - Wait, no it's not. - Whoa, whoa, whoa, - Alright, now it's $20,000. So this is $20,000 in pennies. We're gonna take these and empty 'em on the backyard, and Chandler's dad has no idea, so when he gets home there's gonna be $20,000 in pennies laying across his entire backyard. And then we're gonna help and go buy a car, 'cause as you're remember he said he needs a car. - I bought six cars, all for my kids, and I'm the only one without a car now. - So yeah guys, let's spread I can't wait to see his reaction and I can't wait to buy the car. Alright, we're officially your dad's yard in pennies. How does that make you feel? - Good. - How do you think your dad's gonna react? - I don't know, honestly. - Yeah? Alright. - Whoa, that's a whole lot of pennies. - Flashback to Chandler - Good luck. Actually, no. - There you go. We currently have seven and we have five more coming. But even once all 15 people arrive, if we're all goin' super hard there's no way we're even by the time Chandler's dad gets home. Or maybe like 20, 30%, but we're not gonna be able So me and Chris are gonna test some ways to crack open these roles, because these are what are taking forever. It's just really time consuming to bust them and get So we're gonna try to because if we don't figure somethin' out, I guess we're just gonna have to lay the rolls out in his It'd be so much funnier if But, I don't know, we're So now we're gonna see what happens if we try to burn off the paper. 'Cause maybe we can this whole mound. Apparently you can't for whatever reason it doesn't burn. We got two hours left We wanted to cover the but they're still wrapped up. What do we do? Alright, we're really desperate, we're gonna see if this works again. - I think it's just puttin' the fire out. - Are you tellin' me firefighters should just use pennies? - It looks like it, man. - What? - Yeah, you're definitely Oh, you're gettin' 'em now. - I think I am. How do we unravel all these pennies before Chandler's dad gets home? - You havin' fun? - No, just tired. We're desperate. - What would be good to mash- - Ow, that hit my . Hit that direction. Garrett's first swing. &quot;Ow, my !&quot; - Fired it right at it. - Yeah, I got hit in the eye. How do you think I feel? - Feel like this isn't very effective. - Now we're gonna test the brick method, 'cause the golf club method I missed. - Those look like the Ten Commandments. - So I think at this rate in about a week. - Yeah, unfortunately we only have an hour and a half, though. - Next we're gonna test the car method. Alright, now let's see. How easy are they? - Is that a good way to - Dude, that tire looks I got my secret weapon on my side now. - Chandler, what are you doin'? - Almost helping. - Remember that time when we and it almost killed Garrett? - Yeah. - Watch out. - If we just had a bunch of pickaxes this might actually work. Surprising my friend's dad with a lot of trash in his backyard. What do we do? I wanna surprise your dad with a bunch of pennies in his backyard. - I don't know what to do. - I don't either! We're almost outta time. Do we just leave 'em in the rolls? Would that make our lives easier? - It would make our lives 1000% easier. - But is that what we're about? - We've got that pile, that pile, and then a couple in here. It's currently, what, 3:00? - We did this when we and we knew this would take forever. - But we did it anyway, - Mad lads. - Yeah, but how did we know and not realize it would take forever? - Sprinkler. - I actually didn't get hit by anything. - That all hit me right in the head. - I didn't get hit. - Again. - Put this in slowmo. So we've got a mini army over but I really don't think we're gonna open up all the rolls in time. His dad's gonna be home in an - Even the greats fail sometimes. You think Michael Jordan - Yeah. - Yeah, I guess you're right. Yeah. I guess you just suck. - Just so you guys understand, we're tryin' to put out multiple, really crazy videos every single week. Our videos are so crazy that we're working on at the same day so we can do I really wanna get all the but we just simply didn't have time. They're still gonna get the money. They're still gonna get the cars. The point I'm trying to make is that, we're just trying to film so many videos that sometimes it's hard for And also, his dad gets home in an hour, so no matter what- - Even if we didn't have videos for the next four days. within another hour. - Stick to the end so that way you can see to the pennies and what car Chandler and - Can you go back to work? - Yeah, yeah, can you- - We weren't done. - Dad, you need M&amp;Ms to don't you? - Yeah. - Oh my goodness. - Aw, he was ready for another sandwich, bro. - You thought he was. - I mean, he's home. I guess we can't keep it a - All right, yeah, come on. What do you do you think There's 14 people in what do you think they're doing? - I thought y'all was gonna - Yeah, we did. We did put the slime tank in the backyard. - I'm not gettin' back in that. - We just wanted to put Come look at it. Come on. - Can't see right now. until you get closer. - Three, two, one. - Surprise. - What the man? - We were gonna put a bunch of pennies in your backyard, but we couldn't - You did. So we were gonna take 'em back, but then you still came back. So now we don't know what to do. So there's a bunch of rolled - I think we could just leave it here for you, right? We don't have to clean 'em up anymore. - You can take 'em to the bank for me. - We were gonna unroll 'em all and cover your entire - Apparently it takes a long time. - It takes longer than 10 hours, - Oh my god. But you have a lot of pennies now. - Oh, I getta keep 'em? - Yeah. - With pennies? It would've made so much more sense - They have pennies there? This is a dollar. - I'll make sure I get - 5 bucks in a box, right? think were in your backyard? - $1000. Times? - 10? - Keep on goin'. - For real? - Yeah. - There's 21,000 here. We were gonna surprise - $21,000 worth of pennies? - Yessir. - We called the dealership, they said they would - They're gonna come get 'em? - No, you load 'em up and just go buy cars right now. Whatever you and Chandler want. - For real? - Yeah. Sure. - yeah. Dude, that's awesome, man. - Yeah? - Hold up. Awe. Yeah, look at that. - There we go, man. I'm gonna have a whip. to loadin' 'em up. I find it hilarious that - I really did. Yesterday I'm like, oh god, you know what? They said whoever won that - Y'all are some good people, Chris. - Yes, sir. What do you think about it? - I've been havin' to get 'cause he's usin' my car. - Uh huh. - So now that he has - What do you think about it? - I think it's awesome. - Mid chew there. - Mr. Beast is a good guy. - There you go. and watch what he does. - Finally gettin' me a ride. Yes I am. - You gonna get you a ride? - yeah, dude. That's crazy. - I got that. - This just looks like pennies, - It's a new car? - This sure is, brother. - Who's your favorite president now? - Jimmy. Mr. Beast is. I actually got enough money I can get me some merch now. - Some of that shopmrbeast merch. - Good boy, man. - So I bet you didn't know havin' a son would get you hooked up, did it? - Finally paid off. work for a YouTuber. - Right. Yeah. havin' a child is really expensive. - You guys should have children so they can become friends with YouTubers so you can get cool stuff. Also, both of you guys lost - This is redemption. Dude, I can't believe this. I can't believe this, boy. - How long has it been - So it's been six months. I've been borrowin' Hannah's car to get to work in the then take Zach's car to work. Or they drop me off, I gotta It's been a pain in the butt. - You picked out your car yet? - Uh uh. - You should probably do that. - Oh yeah. In about 20 minutes - Cool. - I haven't given you a hug yet, so. Awe. - Dude, it's just crazy. I swear, man. I don't even know. No, I did not expect none of this. Dude, I thought I was when I pulled up and saw the U-Haul. Chris finally got rid of me, man. - It's good content, so we all win. - Yeah. - I definitely won. - I drank one of your drinks. Here you go. - Hey. - Oh, yeah. Actually- - Root beer? - Yeah, your root beer. - I also ate some of your M&amp;Ms. - You can have your dollar back. - Oh, thank you. - Get me another quarter, though. - You wanna help us? - Heck no, I got a bad back, man. I'm tryin' to recoup. - He's rich. Rich people don't have - Boom. - I'm glad this worked out really good. - This worked out really good. Trust me. - For you. - Hey, when's my pennies in the backyard video, though? - Stay tuned. - It's comin' up. - So I'll give you guys a of one of our videos. This is usually the to do these videos. 15 if you include me. 16 of Just movin' pennies. Some of our videos literally We can do it on our own, but if we wanna upload two there's just no way. 'Cause this would literally if we did it ourselves. So we just finished and we put 'em in all of these boxes. As you'll see, these We're gonna take all these and hopefully they give us a car. We just got done surprising And now we're gonna go to the dealership and buy him and Chandler So let's talk strategy. You guys could buy two $10,000 cars, you could buy one $20,000 car, you could put $20,000 down on or you could just spend What's the game plan? - Groceries. - Groceries? - I'm gonna spend $10,000 - Okay, so you're gonna put So what are you gonna do - I'm gonna try to get a car for 10 grand. - Alright. That's the game plan. He wants to put 10 grand down on a car. He wants to buy a car for 10 grand. Let's go see if we can make it happen. Hopefully they take the pennies. - So when I got home from work today, and even after I saw all - Yeah? yeah, it was a mess in my yard. I'm like, oh we actually - Yeah. Well, when I told Chandler Chandler was like, &quot;Okay.&quot; And I was like, &quot;You get to keep 'em.&quot; He's like, &quot;Oh wait, what?&quot; Hey Chris. - Hey, what's up? - Hey. - Where are you guys goin'? - We're going to get Chandler a car. - No way, me too. - Oh, I'll see you there. - Alright. - Oh, Chandler's dad a car. I keep forgetting this is about you. - Yes. - That's the manager of the store. Yeah, we returned a and we also bought a car from here. Oh, and then we also and bought it from here. Chand, come show us your new car. Oh, look at this. - My interior's black - Whoa. That's actually - Isn't that nice? - Dude, it's got the two tone. It's got the new car smell. - No, I'm okay, man. - Dude, I love the interior. - Dude, it does look pretty dope. - Yeah, this is a nice- - What I wanna do is make it Dude, I've never bought a new car before. - Really? - Yeah. - This is Chandler's special moment. He's about to drive for the first time. - Yeah. - Dude, what if you got in a wreck? - What if he just starts- - Oh gosh. - What is she doin'? - You almost did get in a wreck. - It's not meant to be. - Chand's like, what did you say, Chris? - You want me to hit him? Okay. Sure. Whatever. - Oh, yeah. - Oh, this is my jam! So how much is this, Chris? This is 4,650? 4,650 are still in the boxes. Are you the accountant? - This is our accountant right here. - Sorry. - Y'all are gonna help, right? - Do you have experience - Yeah, nah, I haven't done it man. - Yeah, I've got two kids. - Okay. Perfect. - Yeah, there you go, brother. - Money's money, right? - That's right, brother. Money's money. How do you like your car? - I like it. - Brother Todd, what have you done with that nice whip? - It's not bad, is it? - It's not bad at all, man. You've even got the wood interior, man. - These seats are cool, - You be ridin' in style, man. - Yes, sir. You gon' pull up to the bingo - Yes, sir. Ridin' in style, baby! - Hey Jake. - What's up man? I like your car. - Thanks. My brand new car - Hey, that stuff looks fire. - Isn't this car amazing? And my dad really loves his car. And I just wanna say thank I'm gonna drive it every day of my life for the rest of my life. - Every day? - Forever? - And ever? - And ever? - Hey. MrBeast, oh MrBeast, oh MrBeast, oh