When something is titled "The World's live up to. On December 15th, 2007, a 16-year-old developer alias Snubby, released a very special game At the age of 12, he started making short his work to both Newgrounds and Snubby Land His games were simple and his animations were brewing at Snubby Land creative media. In late 2007, Snubby spent several months different from anything that he had created He wanted to make a flash game so difficult wouldn't be seen as a joke. The objective was simple. For 30 levels, one needed to maneuver a red the blue, purple, and red enemies, while collecting Upon death, the player got sent back to either with all collected coins wiped away. The game wasn't too difficult at the start, first few levels, but soon after, players they were up against. By and large, the levels only get harder as be completed in one sitting, as it does not the browser tab means starting everything If someone gave up trying to complete the the first 29 levels again just to get another Upon completing each level, the game taunts to eat away at their confidence, and as the and higher, the immense frustration felt after compounded. The game truly pulls no punches. Upon release, it truly may have been the most ever created. So, that raises the question: Who was the Game?" Upon the game's release, Snubby Land was There were about 50 registered members who forums, around 400 of which had come from from someone named mexifry895, the website's He would be the first to leave a comment about after its release, venting his frustration is noticeably harder than all the previous The next day, someone named Ziggy claimed Mexifry gave more updates about his progress, jumped in to lend a hand: "Just time it right. Move between the boxes. You move at the exact same speed as the enemies - Snubby He got stuck on level 23 for three days, and level 24 as being "impossible." It appeared as though the rest of the game it ended up being pretty smooth sailing. On December 28th, with a final attempt session deaths, mexifry895 became the first victor However, the leaderboard showed that the developer skill. Mexifry urged Snubby to post the game on Newgrounds a clear hit with the few people that had the had the potential to become a smashing success. By March of 2008, the game had around 10 different to beat the game in just 15 deaths, 4 less An obvious question began to loom; was it without dying a single time? On March 21st, the game was published to its it was finally accessible to a broader audience. In just 3 days, the game reached 60,000 plays, websites like Newgrounds and Addicting Games. By the end of the year, that play count was The game's easy-to-pick-up but tough-as-nails players who wanted to see how difficult The However, what happens when you mix a game with a platform that makes it trivially easy and source code? People hacking popular flash games and slapping new concept back in 2008, but there is no it worse than anything that had come before Players were able to vent their frustration to the end of each level completely unharmed. Countless people effortlessly skipped to the to the game's official leaderboard. Indeed, within a week of the game being shared completely ruined. If someone wanted to prove that they got a going to need to get it on video. As I do with pretty much every single one YouTube to try and find the earliest recordings Hardest Game. To probably nobody's surprise, I found a the game in "0 deaths," but were just smiley faces drawn on all of the green areas. Gotta love old YouTube. There was a lot of garbage to sift through, the first full playthrough of the game uploaded by someone named HatredCopt3r on August 2nd, Because of time limit restrictions that existed speed up their completion to get it uploaded, by the title. However, upon analyzing the video, it became by a factor of 1.5, making the completion Though Copt3r hadn't completed the game they did unintentionally claim the record a time clocking in at 13:13. The next day, they were able to cut their game with just 12: one in level 12, one in 19, two in 29, and two in 30. This run was also sped up 1.5x, and slowing final time of 12:23, a new world record. Copt3r's completions of the game were certainly was still some room to improve, both death-wise Thankfully, on October 18th, 2008, the game as someone named Hachimen became the first Hardest Game. Surpassing millions of other players, Hachimen Game, completing the game with 0 deaths 10 If you have ever seen a video of this game watched either this playthrough or another holds the record for the most viewed video views. Hachimen eased into each level with composure, with surgical precision without going too Time was somewhat of the essence, but speed counter unchanged was all that Hachimen needed If someone wanted to prove that they were Game, simply completing the game with 0 deaths Hachimen's completion just happened to clock Now, it was time to see how much faster the In July of 2008, Snubby released the next Hardest Game 2, featuring 50 total levels, difficulty, and music that was composed by first victor, mexifry895. The game is so challenging that, to this day, with the current Glitchless world record of While both the sequel and the original continued into 2009, it seemed like nobody was able People may have thought that there wasn't death floor of 0 had already been reached, fast they were able to complete the game. However, on September 28th, 2009, someone as he uploaded a 0 death completion of the Hachimen's record: 8:35. Shiroma just started as an average World's to beat the game after struggling immensely. However, he was eventually able to complete beating it over and over again to see how Each level got easier and easier, and eventually, completion. With no built-in goal left to accomplish, He found the video of Hachimen's 0 death how he could more efficiently complete the After some practice and attempts, he was eventually Expectedly, it was very similar to Hachimen's approaches in a lot of the levels, the overall odds of success was readily apparent. The best example of this is probably the long favorable cycle on the spinner. By including a timer with the video and labeling title, it was clear that Shiroma wanted to "The World's Hardest Game". He had gotten another 0 death completion and yet done with the game. For two months, Shiroma sought to improve it was as fast as it could possibly be. Practicing the later levels was arduous, as specific level; if he wanted to get another main menu and play through every single level But he didn't let that deter him. He wanted the next world record to be a huge Finally, on November 30th, 2009, he had pieced for. Starting around level 9, the gameplay was Instead of waiting before each rapidly moving the entire level without slowing down. In level 12, he skipped an entire cycle at completion that was nearly twice as fast. At the start of level 14, there was absolutely In level 17, he saved about 5 seconds by skipping And in level 23, he didn't wait for an easier yet another level in half. The strategy for the end of level 24 was much cleaned up, level 27 had a much faster approach, optimal, level 29 was played with absolutely The final time? 6:41. Shiroma had improved his record by nearly With this run, Shiroma proved that there was level with the game. He cut through each level like butter, performing to anyone viewing back in 2009. If he quit now, it would almost certainly his record. However, he still had more to do. On December 11th, 2009, Shiroma claimed the dominate The World's Hardest Game. Looking at the run, there was not a single The new path taken in level 24 was just ridiculous, had seemingly been executed to perfection. Up to this point, Shiroma was only uploading Niconico, where they saw some moderate success. However, this time, he decided to upload his with a wider audience, a decision that would It was a steady performer at first, but after started soaring, reaching over 15 million So yes, this is the other highly-viewed World's nearly matched with Hachimen's 17 million It's pretty amazing that two of the most flash game made by a 16-year-old in his spare pretty incredible ways. On a personal note, Shiroma's 6:29 was the back in the early 2010s, and I recall just This was a game where I was taking hundreds of levels, and this guy was able to complete without dying a single time. This is the run that initially built my curiosity that the simple flash games that I enjoyed to be unlocked. Without this run, I don't know if I'd that I am today. It seemed like Shiroma had finally perfected level in particular that needed to be improved. The target? Level 18. In all of his previous records, the strategy Clear three rows of coins going to the right, clear the remaining three moving right again Even if all the rows were able to be cleared a final movement to the right would still the strat couldn't be done any more optimally. However, on January 11th, 2010, he got to cut the number of trips down to one. Being nearly tied with his 6:29 going into Shiroma figured out that by buffering up and would just not hit any of the enemies, allowing Combined with slightly more optimal movement to 12 seconds and scored himself a 6:17. Now, this had to be it. 2nd place was 2 minutes and 20 seconds behind Each level looked like it had been perfected. What else could possibly be done to push the 14 more seconds erased. Shiroma had somehow figured out yet another each one being some sort of cycle skip. In level 3, instead of waiting after collecting barely maneuver back to the goal in the same the way in and on the way out. In level 17, he figured out that it was barely down and right at the start of the level, of how the cycles work out later in the level In level 25, he completely cut out all of and barely squeezing through the spinner a Finally, in 27, he figured out that it was with the bar still in front of it, skipping With tighter execution in some of the other March 31st, 2010. This was finally the run that he had been 2 minutes and 34 seconds ahead of 2nd place, throne. He had completely dismantled "The World's pushing the game to heights that were inconceivable Back then, it seemed obvious that this record it truly be able to stand the test of time? 7 years passed by, and nobody had even come It was the real deal; Shiroma's record was There were multiple 0 death completions uploaded of speed, Pzula's 7:09, performed on March a run which unfortunately appears to have However, thanks to this passage of time, Pzula game, released in 2013, which had a built-in game much more efficiently than Shiroma ever For two weeks, Pzula poured in attempts, inching By the 15th of April, he had a 6:10, just He got onto a run that started off a bit slower optimal route in level 8, he was able to pull Pzula saved a bit more time after implementing of level 10. The lead expanded further after he cut straight coin in level 16 instead of moving around In level 18, Pzula used a slightly different speed, and in level 21, he narrowly avoided the coin a bit faster. He took a cleaner path through level 24, and him on pace for the first sub 6 in the game's And then... the lead was wiped away. Pzula exited the level a second behind. However, he had one final trick up his sleeve. Going through the middle of level 27 was certainly a lot of waiting and unnecessary movement Pzula executed the new route almost flawlessly Shiroma. He matched Shiroma's death defying movement in 29, which grew the lead back to 4 seconds. Pzula, once again, had the potential to break minute barrier. All he had to do was hug the wall to the finish. And then... Staring death in the face, he decided not a new record of 6 minutes flat. After 2572 days, Shiroma's record had finally Unfortunately, for Pzula, a deathless run After taking a short break, Pzula went back under his belt. He got onto a run that had a strong first 6 from a quick death. However, he pulled right back even after implementing But, hold on. How was he able to just phase through the of the level? If you've ever played this game before, 7 where you can seemingly stay invincible the game starts you out at. If you move up or down, even a little bit, You still have to collect the coins, meaning by holding down the right button, but it is The position Pzula gets to by tapping up once to be another one of these seemingly "random" So, here's the flaw with the game's collision The player has five hit detection points arranged edge, and one in the center. While coin collision is determined with a count an interaction with an enemy as a hit, points. This means that the player can move quite taking a hit, while going in from the edge intended by the developer. However, this system starts to break down itself. As it turns out, for a hit to be registered, one of these five points for two frames in how spike glitch in Red Ball works. In flash player, point to pixel checks are frame was. Let's say we are in a scenario where an point. The game first checks if the point is within is orders of magnitude faster than performing frame regardless of how far apart the player Since the point is inside the bounding box, point to pixel check with the enemy. However, because the previously rendered frame no pixels from the rendered enemy are overlapping On the next frame, the enemy moves off of The game first performs the bounding box check, Therefore, the game doesn't run the full point frame that would have found the two to be Gotta love those janky built-in Flash Player Essentially, the only zones where an enemy for two consecutive frames. Because the enemies in level 7 are moving small, meaning that as long as all five of these areas, it cannot be hit. Extrapolating that to provide a better visual completely within these zones, it is safe. Unfortunately, because of how unusual this of the game were on YouTube, Pzula had plenty and a "cheater," a trend that unfortunately Pzula got a bit behind going into level 20, save a boatload of time in the level. After collecting the first coin, it was just without waiting for the next cycle, leading to the cycles later in the level lining up Going into level 21, Pzula was easily on pace He maintained the same 5 and a half second the level without dying, he was now over 10 This run was on pace to skip an entire ten 5:49. Unfortunately, in level 28, disaster struck. One death right at the start, and one death That lead shrunk to just 4.4 seconds. Thankfully, the rest of the run was smooth enemy in level 30 to claim a new record of Pzula decided to take yet another break after mean the game as a whole was cooling off. Competition on the leaderboard was stronger hsblue to push their times lower and lower. Finally, on February 28th, 2018, Pzula came coming from him cleaning up all three of his Indeed, Pzula had finally managed to complete Like had been the case with Shiroma's 6:03, was nearly "perfect" for all of the strategies enemy weave in level 10 that he had pulled This one had the potential to stand for quite However, third place runner hsblue would soon wide open once again. On March 7th, hsblue uploaded a new PB of level 17. He was able to partially clip into this wall So, how on earth does that work? Essentially, the game uses the same edge points does to check for collisions with enemies. Expectedly, this means that it's possible since none of the collision points are being If the player moves into a position that puts the game will move the player at 3 pixels movement, in the opposite direction until However, if the player starts holding the be able to stay inside of the wall, as the will cancel out. This is exactly what happened in hsblue's left, which caused him to clip slightly inside from holding left to holding right, allowing In this scenario, this maneuver was frame accident, and it didn't really accomplish However, the implications of this unusual On August 22nd, hsblue was able to implement a perfect level 1 time of 3.867 seconds, a In the run, hsblue first clips into this corner releases the down button to stay inside the button to keep the player inside the wall On this frame, the player moves three pixels three pixels, as the top collision point is The game then detects that the player's it moves the player 3 more pixels toward the Because of wall clipping, hsblue moves 3 pixels double the game's intended speed cap, which, two frame perfect inputs! Alright, so wall clipping wasn't exactly enough time to simmer, there was hope that some decent time with it. However, while people were still searching Pzula decided to come back and completely August 28, 2018. Pzula streams world record attempts of The of 0 viewers. His splits show that his current PB is a 5:31, record, though he never decided to upload He is laser-focused on his mission of completing He is playing on a version of the game that for each level and the whole run. With built-in timing, resetting, and level instrumental in helping him discover and practice seeking to implement. In level 3, he uses a position-based setup In level 5, he does more moving and less waiting, on the corner. He hits a much faster cycle while collecting he hits all three possible weaves. He sneaks under this enemy elevator in level He bulldozes through level 13 without stopping He takes a significantly faster route in level grab to save a hefty chunk of time. He collects all of the coins in the first single time, swiftly passing through the enemies He cuts through these enemies in level 22 letting go of the right key until the very He goes to the right first in level 26, which of the level. The best possible time is 5:28. All he needs to do is complete the last 4 countless times before. 5:29. There it was. Shiroma's 6:29, the most influential World's just been toppled by over a minute. Again, the game had a world record where almost to plan. The video received a good amount of traction, their congratulations in the comments. However, there was also expectedly a tsunami cheated once they saw Pzula getting hit by I guess some people just aren't able to back in 2007 may not have every single bolt Regardless, this impressive show of dominance meaning that this one certainly had the chance However, it didn't end up staying on top as a new runner named Aaron would quickly Joining the community in September of 2018 runs," Aaron made his first mark with, well, He beat or tied the world record in every feat. However, on November 18th, 2018, he dropped full-game personal best of 5:46. The_IL_Guy was no longer just The_IL_Guy. He was now The_FG_Guy as well. Aaron kept grinding, improving his PB to a a new world record of 5:26. In the run, Aaron took the other available it was actually slightly faster. In level 18, he used Pzula's no stop strategy maneuvered around the enemies after collecting in between them. He used a faster return route in level 27, cheese in level 29 to squeeze through these He didn't do the quick exit in level 7 or all of the other crazy stuff that he implemented by three seconds. It's worth reiterating that essentially and perfected without the help of Pzula's Back when Shiroma pulled off his 6:03, the it was pretty much impossible to practice over again. Things had come quite a long way, and Aaron's in 29 to save a fraction of a second was pretty For over a year now, hsblue had slowly been and closer to the world record, something Just when he felt like he could finally chase However, he wasn't going to let that deter He came back and started setting massive Personal then a 5:27, and then a 5:26, tying Aaron's in just 4 frames slower. Still, this run did have some impressive new of level 6, and a much faster cycle in level to avoid hitting the enemy. Finally, wall clipping had a substantial use Hsblue omitted the third weave in level 10 didn't lose any time, but he was still very Unfortunately, disaster struck in level 18, of completing the level, which lost him about Regardless, he pressed on; no matter how long until he got the record outright. Unfortunately for him, that very same day, Aaron uploaded a video that began with him Yes, he was actually going for the double frame, something which he thankfully hit on He didn't go for the wall clip in level size to get it to work, oh, I guess I forgot is dependent on the game's window size, in level 10 to save a cycle, also hitting In level 12 he got past the final enemy obstacle collecting this coin on his first go, and under the last enemy; it was as if the ghost Aaron lost around a second, ending with a However, since he still improved the record this mistake probably didn't matter that Hsblue's attempt counter continued to rack There was no time better than the present Aaron would likely continue to push his times more and more difficult to attain with each For 4 years, he had been playing The World's have the record to himself. All he needed to do was match his 5:26 without his. On May 31st, 2019, he got onto a run that He hit the wall clip in 8 but didn't go He didn't do the fast ending for level 12 easily on pace without it. He messed up the last coin grab in level 16, He approached level 18, the same level that during his 5:26, but this time... disaster He didn't lose a full three seconds this been flushed down the drain. However, there was still one hail mary strategy TAS 23. 5:23. Miraculously, he had done it. It's hard to overstate how much this run He had put so much time and energy towards record for years, and now, he had it. The first sentence of the run's description mind to it, you can do anything" Funnily 30 of his 5:24, essentially the last mistake Hardest Game speedrun, hsblue wouldn't have of the game with this run. Whether he would have later claimed the record but it is funny to look back and see how perfectly Indeed, Hsblue seemed to have achieved his had not. Aaron knew that there were still plenty of to a new 10-second barrier, 5:1x. His 5:24 didn't have the quick exit in level individual level strategies that could potentially And of course, there was that pesky mistake The whole summer passed without anything new, something pretty incredible. Levels 1-7 started out perfect, but he still he still couldn't find the right window So... what was going on? At this point, pretty much every single World's standalone adobe flash player for their runs, better performance, and allowed the game to However, Aarons' platform of choice was... Internet Explorer. For whatever reason, a web browser that had because of how bad it was, actually ran the Aaron's interesting platform of choice made size where the 8 wall clip and the other strategies not to bother with it. Despite this unfortunate handicap, Aaron knew 10 second barrier. He pressed on, nailing the wall clip and weaves He essentially stayed perfect going into level implemented by hsblue. He got it. Granted that he didn't mess up level 30, a bit shy of his goal. However, he had a plan that could just barely He entered level 26, and proceeded to do this Another death-defying weave. He was now on pace to break into a new 10 All he had to do was clutch the ending. There it was. 5:19.633. Plenty of geniuses in the YouTube comments the game's collision mechanics... to call real. Aaron took a well-deserved break after this even get close to challenging his throne, that more could be done. Going into 2020, it became apparent that there potentially be brought over to full game runs. First, there was a wall clip in level 6 to with the spinner, saving over a second. Next, there was a frame-perfect turnaround phase through this first enemy, saving around Additionally, there was a cycle skip in level entry, perfect character alignment to squeeze for the rest of the level, allowing for a Finally there was a frame perfect entry in dots at the top right instead of going over Of these 4, Aaron recognized that the strategies And, at last, he had found a way to hit the could save an additional two and a half seconds. If everything went according to plan, a 5:14 Now, he just had to piece everything together. What. A. Run. Aside from a somewhat suboptimal level 26, to plan, and the expected potential for these This run is, absolutely, one of the greatest The time and dedication that Aaron has put and there is very little chance of this record He stands in first by over 9 seconds, as hsblue As you may have guessed, this run, a true performed on Internet Explorer. You really can't make this stuff up. Aaron may come back again, but as it stands, Hardest Game. However, that doesn't mean it's bound In December of 2007, a high school student internet. The game challenged players to not just overcome completion with the fewest number of deaths After a player finally managed to achieve their attention towards a new challenge, seeing When Aaron set his current world record of the game was around a 5:12, as the TAS 12 into runs. However, with Aaron recently building much many now believe that a sub 5:10 could potentially The most recent full-game TAS is a 4:57.467 wall clip and hitbox abuse strategies in almost Published back in April of 2019, this is the era of frame-perfect optimization, making that are used in top-level World's Hardest Expectedly, this TAS is a bit outdated, with could be made, but it's still funny to see this TAS in 25/30 of the levels, actually The human SOB currently sits at a 4:59.600, level 20, where the TAS saves a hefty 55 frames unviable. There are simply way too many frame perfect a sub 5 to ever have a chance of being pulled amazing to think about how far things could But looking back, it's crazy to see how the past 15 years. Nowadays, it is the third most played game games, having a combined 95 million plays After releasing the second game in the series, Straight Bullyism, a highly ambitious RPG to believe was made entirely by a single developer. Eventually, he came back to The World's 2014 and TWHG 4 in June 2016. With the death of flash on the web looming Games to port the first installment to HTML5 future generations, with almost all of the The remaining 3 installments were ported by of quality; 2 is impossible to beat thanks levels and 4 was never fully finished and The original versions of the first two installments they have continued to have life on other As Snubby moved further into adulthood, he of Stevie, which is why his name is different His web game development days seem to be behind and all of his other websites, but the legacy nothing short of incredible. He created one of the most popular and memorable with the first game in particular truly being Its formula inspired people to keep playing truly master it, and their efforts to push been viewed in awe by tens of millions of Each record holder shaped the game in their foundation for low-death completions, Hachimen definition of perfection, Shiroma unlocked the game with his practice mod and innovative with wall clipping, while also showcasing the game near its absolute limit through his to come out of nowhere. Over 15 years, this game went from being beaten, dismantled and dominated. Speedrunners are the ones who realized that it was necessary to completely redefine what Thanks for watching. Enormous thank you to Aaron, Pzula, Danicker, this project possible. I'm sorry that this one took quite a while the wait. It's hard to believe that we are this close thank you all enough for the support. If you enjoyed watching this video and want consider subscribing. Also, definitely go watch all of Aaron's to all my supporters on Patreon, which you I hope you all have a great rest of your day, three months, I promise.