The Holy Land... Wedged between Lebanon to the North, Jordan this mythical territory is home to Arid Judea, The shores of the Sea Morte, The Oasis of Jericho... A territory with The scene of the greatest episodes Spending 40 days in the desert, A sacred Holy Land of course, but A region which has given birth to Like that of the Milk Grotto Where Mary is said to have breastfed the child which would have transformed the place This drop of milk which falls will change the nature of this stone. This Or even this curious mosque in the Here around a mysterious and Once a year, one day a The Holy Land is also a Like in the hidden caves of questioning the origins To the extent that we is likely to the origins of Christianity, we ask ourselves prevent the disclosure of information that Intrigues. Mysticism. Revelations.. Arid landscapes... With captivating beauty... And where mysteries are legion... Like here... In the middle of the Judean Desert... A place where a dark and We are in Masada, a fortress Where 960 zealots, escape the legions of the Roman army. Perched 500 meters high, But the Romans are numerous bastion of Jewish resistance. A today, at the center of one of the In the year 72, in the the silence of these hostile lands Roman legionaries...by the thousands... We are in the middle of the Judean desert, there are no springs within 20km. the Romans doing here? It's If the legions are marching it is no coincidence. They What interests them is the fortress The zealots. A radical Jewish community that entered For Rome, it was unthinkable nests of rebels. It was therefore necessary to Problem: to subdue these rebels, we will took refuge in Masada 6 years ago. An Look at these walls, they are almost were perhaps up to 2 meters high that is to say the entire location of Masada. it In this hostile environment Roman soldiers could establish food and water ran out. We find ourselves here in front of the Zealots managed to survive for and which allowed the Zealots Plenty of food and drink. If comfortable conditions in this hostile environment, it is When the zealots arrive they find everything built. Everything is there ! They they found swimming pools, they Masada was built a century King of Judea. The site was intended to A sumptuous 3-story fortified royal palace We are here on the lower floor of the the columns, the frescoes, the wealth, the splendor. Only Herod Sheltered in this inaccessible fortress, But this is without taking into account the determination of the Roman legions who, despite everything, What we see here is one of the all around this fortress, to prevent And the Romans will go even further... By they will therefore choose the west side, undertake a gigantic project. tens of thousands of Jewish slaves who For 3 months, the workers will work the construction of a 100-meter ramp! Then they will build at the same time, a tower the gate. Perched on their rocky outcrop, the zealots can only observe the progress Their rare attempts at resistance are They know that their days are numbered The Romans are going to invade this part of the population, rape But when the Roman legions enter a nightmarish spectacle, Before them, a mass grave of corpses, blood flowing, none have survivors! The Romans can of Massada preferred to kill themselves... For the zealots, the option first of all preserve their honor but that is to say, to live as free men and But this version of the facts will intrigue extreme religious piety commit According to Jewish tradition, it is life and especially to harm reprehensible. This act cannot be To circumvent the religious ban, the wives and children. As for the last men, The last ten remaining The one who is chosen will slit the and will throw himself on his sword to put an This would be the story of the Massada massacre. one of the most famous The only testimony of what comes to us from a very well-known historian War of the Jews against the Romans". because it is only Flavius Josephus who It is our only literary and historiographical source. He is the Is Flavius Josephus, the only witness, final outcome continues to question the man is accused by his compatriots The story of the capture of Masada poses a certain but he was not present at Masada. He has already been in Rome, He's there, he's trying to keep things the victors are always right so he is for this situation, at the same time he What can we do when we and at the same time it is not completely reliable. Flavius Josephus therefore did not attend the siege of truthfulness of his story... giving us the solution to this enigma, So what does archeology give First of all, archeology We found dozens of Roman catapults by the camps we found remains of 25 skeletons which were stored in There is therefore no question of Massada: a battle did indeed take place here. But what is puzzling is clues could validate the thesis of the to choose the one who will assassinate the others... During the archaeological excavations small shards of pottery on which seems to attest that there may have been But again, nothing is certain... It's an interesting theory, except that these everywhere on most archaeological sites. It proves that they were there, that they occupied the draws, perhaps for perhaps for a whole bunch of things, but draw for who was going to be left Unless there are new archaeological discoveries, we must therefore be content with the story of The only certainty is that the legions of Lucius Flavius last bastion of the Jewish revolt against Rome. Incessant fights... The Holy Land is definitely Dramas which often end in blood... full desert or in a small village, these veiled in mysteries and legends... As in The Milk Grotto in Bethlehem is much more are known to Christians all over the world. which will forever change and strengthen What secret do the walls of this devotion from pilgrims? one of the most Bethlehem, a city that needs no introduction that changed the course of History, a In this region, there are One of which is of capital importance A cavity with We are here in the heart of the cave, one of the lowest places in this cave and What makes this one so special To try to understand the origin of fascination it still exerts today The white color of this stone of Jesus' childhood, an episode which is A crucial event in the life from the holy scriptures... A silence which The story goes that Herod the Great, king the birth of Jesus. A child who is Herod is furious to learn of the birth of Herod the Great, but also the great children of Bethlehem and the surrounding territory What we will later call that is to say the massacre of children Joseph, the father of Jesus, is then awaits his son. He must save him from He then decides to take Mary This is actually called the Flight Cruel, merciless, Herod's soldiers caused And in the rush to leave, Mary is forced to seek a She arrives in this cave and a drop of milk on the floor of this cave. A fact which might seem anecdotal This drop of milk which falls will change the nature of this stone. This From there, the status of the cave will with the image of Mary, nourishing mother, In the Christian religion, we have human nature and divine nature. the personality of Mary, the mother of Jesus, The emphasis on motherhood itself, and is an element which goes, in this sense of However, it was not until the 12th of true worship on the part of Christians. And when the Franciscan friars arrived in Bethlehem, they took a The Franciscans received from the Pope the animate, protect, and remain in the 1375 they were able to obtain For them, this cave is Mary's presence constitutes rock turned white thanks to the Holy It is very difficult to obtain relics, hair, or all kinds of objects. Here, we just have to mix this powder with water and It is an indirect relic of course, but touch something that has a relationship Since then, the attraction of this cave and its Infertile women or who still want to this cave, scrape the rock, collect the The miracle is still very popular, today whole world, from women who testify that having these women were able to give birth, others were able to Whether or not we believe in the virtues of the important site. Especially because it as a simple man. It is therefore recorded in the Bible. Perhaps In the Holy Land, Jesus is omnipresent... successive episodes of his life, recounted in the Bible, have From his birth to his everything here immerses us in East of Jerusalem, the Mount of But above all, a major site for the For Judaism, we find the For Christianity, the Basilica of Gethsemane... A building small in size but A unique mosque that welcomes How is it possible ? How does the to bring together communities that have This is just one of the many mysteries of this site. Mysteries which owe a lot to Immersion in an enigmatic place of worship... On the Mount of Olives, in the old town, sits a modest building. First of all, when you observe it it has all the top which resembles the dome of many of the walls too and the minaret which reminds us A mosque in a Muslim neighborhood Besides, everything seems to conform to the rules We find ourselves in a narrow circular place which corresponds exactly to the principles Behind me are three small openings which in Arabic are called "minhab" and which However, this mosque is intriguing in more than one who come to pray there, in small groups... or One day a year, once a year, The different Christian communities have the Feast of the Ascension for two nights and one day. It is because it is the only place where Muslims allow And don't be fooled by its modest appearance. one of the The reason is linked to the story of Jesus... An event of the highest importance is going to happen here, the second most To understand exactly what is the year 33 in the time of Jesus, at the time when he Then Jesus resurrects and, for 40 days, he At the end of these forty days, it is way and that is where Jesus will Jesus was taken to heaven in a cloud, This episode where Jesus goes to heaven is well known And it is precisely on the Mount would have occurred... Which gives especially since there would still be proof! Here would be traced the foot of Jesus in the It is a sort of trace, a crevice, a sort of fulcrum, a momentum. photographic snapshot in a certain way The last imprint of Jesus' foot on earth before his ascension to heaven. Here is And it is for this reason that But a mystery remains: why is this By being attentive and carefully observing what Christian architectural language, for example the arches many Christian places, these columns, these we find it in many churches. We Before being a mosque, the Ascension was If we find elements which belong because this building was built at A short-lived Christian parenthesis... Jerusalem and declared all the holy places To assert his authority, Saladin decided to build a small dome to close this the Ascension. It is for this reason that we Muslim characteristics, It was therefore at the end of the 12th century, under the authority definitively converted into a mosque. why did Muslims We must of course remember that Jesus, Issa Issa is an important, if not essential, prophet. It is therefore natural that Muslims therefore erected this mosque on the Moreover, the Ascension is know well. Even if the version For the Ascension of Jesus, we will have about the prophet Mohammed, who also be taken away, kidnapped It's actually a lightning journey, in one The importance of Jesus in the Koran would this holy place which was originally Christian. wonder. Why is such a symbolically powerful place eyes of Christians, so humble, so modest? The Ascension, as a place of Christian worship, was invested by Christian tradition from the time of Constantine, the first Roman emperor to century to glorify the miraculous Ascension of Constantine, in the 330s, at the same time as he was building the Holy Sepulchre, You see the base of these pillars, the base of an enormous splendid building, described in the seventh century as breathtaking, And visible from a great distance. This is very important because probably which we saw the most in Jerusalem since the Unfortunately, this colossal when Muslims invaded the It was therefore necessary to wait for the Crusaders and Saladin It is for this reason that the Eucharist every year at Easter... The Holy Land is a territory of mystery Like in the arid depths of the desert... sun is hot... Like the fascinating stories that very strange discoveries can We are now 40 km north of Masada, the 900 Dead Sea Scrolls were discovered. Documents likely to provide revelations But for almost 50 years the results revealed! An interminable wait Why this unbearable silence? Do the manuscripts would have an interest in not disclosing their content? Vatican could be involved, this is only One of the major archaeological discoveries It is on the shores of the that the epic tale of the Qumran Scrolls begins. How can we suspect that this landscape of an enigmatic story, A story that would begin The Bedouin who was looking the cave threw a stone through a crevice. This stone ricochets off something... He entered, he saw a jar jar a manuscript which was surrounded by leather. The shepherd then sees the possibility aware that his find will upset thousands of years... He finds a The souk seller who bought the is called Kando. It is through him specialists that the preciousness of these And this is how the story For around ten years, and Bedouins explore all the caves in the raked. In total, 900 manuscripts written to the delight of the team At its head, there is notably Roland de Vaux, is the director of the For Father Roland de Vaux, these documents Why were these manuscripts in these put them there? Who wrote them? For what ? At represent in their eyes and what First observation, these We realize that we are dealing anything we previously knew about the Bible. The oldest manuscripts Writings dating from the 1st century, revelations made between 1950 and 1951 Until now, the first known Hebrew texts the Qumran manuscripts take us back for Thanks to these manuscripts, we to get closer to the time of the Bible. We say to ourselves, but ultimately since these manuscripts learn more about this character, about his In other words, we hope that these about Jesus! Manuscripts that could call into possible. Especially since 4 of the first 7 scrolls Among the first manuscripts discovered, we have on the but we also have manuscripts which document which seems to have opinions, beliefs, of Jews at the time, and very quickly the first The Essenes, an ancient community which through its similarities with We find the same expressions, the of the messiah of the end the times. There is who manifest and appear It almost feels like we are if ultimately Christianity was only an without a trace? An incredible scenario Where Qumran changes the situation is manuscripts which we believe were A fantastic opportunity to discover Especially since an archaeological site located reinforces the hypothesis of an Essene presence. Father Roland de Vaud will excavate the site, wondering if by chance this site We are here on the Khirbet and the cave behind me shows how many This confirmed the association Father de Vaux, between the manuscripts As the excavations progress, the becomes obvious. Thus, the occupants of the We are here next to one of the numerous Qumran which attests that the inhabitants of this site, therefore probably the Essenes, were And it is an important piece of the site which We are here in the scriptorium, because archaeological excavations have made it possible table remains, which attest that A scriptorium! A You understand perfectly the connection de Vaux made between here a copy workshop, and in the caves which surrounded the site . The Essenes would therefore be at the very moment when Christianity From the 1950s, the press and passionate about the incredible history They are therefore impatiently waiting for and their contents to be revealed to them. and Christianity risks being revisited... And then the public begins to wonder, but why? Why do Discontent will grow, and we will things, if there are not This disturbing silence fuels And Father Roland de Vaud is on the front line. Father Roland de Vaud is an archaeologist, a Catholic priest. discoveries that call into question What is he going to do ? Will he hide them? Will he perhaps The all-powerful Vatican is suspected. He would seek to conceal To the extent that we are likely to make of Christianity, we say to ourselves &quot;But will prevent disclosure information that Obviously the hypothesis of a Christianity Jewish sect is disturbing. But are Father de Vaux and the compromising information? And can they At the end of the 1980s, there was Journal of Biblical Archeology in the the team which was supposed to publish Therefore publicly accusing him of hiding things and ultimately of not being Vaux's father died in 1971, his team of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the fantasy hidden in the caves of Qumran? discovery of the first manuscripts, reports of their research... a single If there is a link between Christians and Essenes, it only comes from the fact that Christianity and therefore we cannot exclude that there But if Christianity is not an nothing can call the Bible into question, why have you remained silent for so long? It must be realized that most of small fragments of a few centimeters were lost. So it's a huge puzzle. you take a thousand puzzles, you mix them up, you burn the patterns and you ask That was ultimately the titanic task that So, are all the enigmas surrounding the Dead Sea Scrolls solved? and the deep motivations which led them to constitute what is called the library Was the library at Qumran Essene? There are no. Because there are various caves, there therefore undoubtedly frequented every sites. But there are caves which Today we realize that first of all almost half a millennium, therefore when we ask ourselves the question of the answer is not singular. The Dead Sea Scrolls have not yet decades to decipher everything. certainly contain other scrolls... And the We still don't know exactly who fragments that remain to be deciphered. We ask ourselves wonder if there are still manuscripts to be will we discover manuscripts of the in short, a whole bunch of mysteries Mysterious discoveries... Right in the middle of a captivating Desert... secrets little by little... Jericho is the scene of another It is a place that evokes solitude, Jericho... Suspended in the void, clinging to the Quarantine Monastery sits enthroned... Leaving Why was this monument erected What mysterious episode in the Let's set off to discover one of the We are north of the Dead Sea... The buildings of the Monastery, erected on the surface of the At its feet, the city of Jericho, which We are here at the entrance to the striking contrast between where we the Jordan Valley, where And the Jordan will irrigate the banks, beautiful vegetation while the monastery It is immediately much more arid, much The Quarantine Monastery but its presence above all marks A calm and silent bond, but Where Jesus will endure one of the The desert in many religions First of all, it is the place where we from other human beings. We lose our comfort, we in solitude, fear, anguish. questioning our own humanity. one is inclined to turn to God. Talk to him, And this is why the A symbolically The desert and its extreme conditions are also The Judean Desert is a desert of rock, a small mountains and so in fact it is not at It is not impossible that Jesus, wanted to take refuge in a cave. You had to protect yourself from the heat of the day or even from wild beasts. There are hyenas of Jesus. Maybe he found but the place is so barren that a However, Jesus will emerge More than ever, he is alive... Spending 40 days in the desert, without eating, prodigy was interpreted by many as not just a human being, that he was a There is therefore undoubtedly a part of a resisted here to live in search And the text tells us "After he had fasted forty it is at that moment that the tempter This is obviously not a coincidence, since Jesus Winner of his fight against the desert... Jesus is this time confronted But he will resist... Jesus has nothing to prove, and it is precisely not succumb to temptation, because he He emerges victorious, he is A mysterious crossing of the desert... An enigmatic fight against the devil... shrouded in legendary stories... build here, on this steep cliff, We find ourselves here , in a place entirely conducive to At first, it was simply hermits in a cave, and then it was only In the 19th century, Greek and built this breathtaking Monastery. A sinuous construction, which takes the The monastery is very long along the consecutive corridor, a little mysterious, the end we come across a chapel, Impossible to progress further into the rock: But what is so special about it that justifies it The stone behind me commemorates the place where days in the desert, hence why the monastery The desert which surrounds the spectacular episode in the life of Christ. But how can we be sure that the facts We know that this tradition three or four centuries after Jesus. So it's we do not have any which could prove to us that this is where from a historical point of view we do This episode in the gospel has above there to show us that Jesus is ready So the location was chosen arbitrarily? specific part of the desert would The Quarantine monastery offers a the city of Jericho, the Dead Sea, and the mountains spectacular. Now, precisely one of the to another mountain to make him contemplate if you prostrate yourself before me and worship me, I place that is suitable for this episode, Whatever the reason was installed there... since its construction in the Quarantine continues to hover Mythical battles... put into question causes many beliefs... If there is indeed a country where And time may well change nothing...