Translator: Tanya Cushman My daughter just started kindergarten. So this is a really exciting time. It marks a time when me, as a parent, is going to hand my child over and hope that she learns the skills I've only dropped her off at kindergarten, and I'm already thinking But really, when we drop off our kids at school, it kind of evokes a lot of deep about what we need in order and what our children will need. Now, one of these topics is something that I know that she's really as much as I wish she would. And oftentimes, this conversation The topic that I want to talk and specifically: Now, my experience with money I was in education; I was an educational consultant, And at the time, I was doing and I had this hobby As you can imagine, when I first started, And what I decided to do was apply the things I was learning with the skills of making money. It ended up working out really well. I left that full-time job, and now I do this for a living, But it's with this perspective that I want to talk to you about today. When we think about money, many of us are very familiar &quot;save more,&quot; &quot;spend less,&quot; &quot;budget.&quot; Those are terms we use all of the time; we know they're things that we should do, and they're really focused Then on the other side of the coin, we have this idea of what it would be like We have these ideas and notions that we think we need to risk it all This is Gordon Gekko, a very familiar character We've probably all seen we might watch shows called &quot;Billions.&quot; This is the typical depiction of what we normally think about This is me. (Laughter) Trading in a coffee shop What we see and hear is so far removed So, if you have a bit of money saved, and we've done what we're supposed to do, and we want to actually grow some wealth, many of us are trying to hit that other very traditional notion the notion that's actually more or people who already have Depictions of average people If we actually want to do we are somewhere here in the middle, And so, no wonder it's pretty I mean, 76% of millennial women 71% of Americans find talking And get this: 44% of Americans find the most is about money. Even the topic of death So this is a real problem. We all work really hard for our money. We are all told to save our money. But what do we do if we want What do we do if we're somewhere Most of us are probably handing our money because this is often And when we do that, that's fine for some. But unfortunately, we don't really we definitely don't get and many of us don't even know about why are they making And I don't think Many of us don't even realize to be able to log in and to be able to trade Unfortunately though, the skill set that's gone so many of us don't really know. So what if we turned, then, This is where we would think about: &quot;We need to learn to make money.&quot; So, the latest term that we have here This is supposed to help But if you look at the narrative about what it still being discussed we still are talking &quot;save more,&quot; &quot;spend less,&quot; And I want you to think If we actually took this idea and started helping people and then they started spending money based on the profits from money they earned, how would that change We need to help our students realize that when it comes to the markets this can be actually but we need to stop trying to make and start realizing that this is a skill that any of us can do We need to take some of the skill sets So think about something like: &quot;compare and contrast&quot; In kindergarten, they're starting to learn Those are skills that actually I use And, in fact, when I learnt how to trade - a lot of the skills that I use they're skills that I actually So we need to help students bridge the gap between information and tying that to conversations about money. The other piece that I want to talk Again, this is something when we talk about this with them. When it comes to the market, So, just for example here, about a week ago, And he had $5,000, and he wanted to know how long I thought it would take And that's the problem. $5,000 to $10,000, that's a 100% return; Gosh, if everybody It's all about our expectations. It would be far more realistic trade with it, enjoy that, and take his family as opposed to trying to double his money. There is nothing wrong with taking and only just focusing and then spending those profits rather than trying to double your money It doesn't have to be all or nothing. And let me tell you, I am not an ex-institutional trader. And by the way, just because doesn't mean that you actually or that it's appropriate I also want you to know that I am not a certified I do not have an MBA, I am an average person. And when it comes to making money, I am no more capable of this than you are. Home Depot brought &quot;do-it-yourself&quot; with the tagline: &quot;We can show you how.&quot; We need something like this for money-making skills, too, We need to start seeing depictions that are actually on what most of us We need to stop idealizing these very fantasized versions and [start] realizing for all of us. So, there are three things that I really hope And now that I do know how to make money, this is what I hope you will write down and you will continue The first thing is that when it comes to making money, there's this language to it. And there's lots of complicated terms. And one term is often used So no wonder it's confusing for all of us because none of us are using plain English when we start talking but particularly in the market. So let's start asking all of the media outlets to start talking about all this so that we can actually understand. If you want to continue to invest but maybe we'll have about the decisions being made. And if you want to do that yourself, it's even better. I also want you to know that the language shouldn't be you don't need to know all of the words And vice versa: you can make money without knowing The second piece is that when it comes it doesn't have to be a full-time job. Now, I love this, and I have to say I've done this and I started trading four days You can do this as a hobby too. The best part about trading is when you go to Starbucks And you know why it's free? Because I'm spending the profits that I made on a trade in Starbucks, That feeling is something If you have a little bit of money saved and you focus on spending it how does that change The third thing that I want you to know is that it's a skill. Unfortunately, there are a lot of people that come to the market and think before they're really ready So I want you to remember that when you first started you probably started with training wheels. And you may have even fallen but you got up, and now some of you but others might just enjoy And the same experience Just make sure that if you do fall down, because it does get to a place I'd like everybody What Gordon Gekko [did] is risky, but it doesn't have to be that way. And honestly, not knowing If we all ask more, we can learn to make more. And so this brings me back when I dropped my child off as many of you have as well. Are they really learning the skills And have the skills helped you to get you Thank you. (Applause)