All right -Hi everyone, good evening! My name Book Store, the Harvard University Division to introduce this event with Sean Carroll in the Universe: Space, Time, and Motion&quot;. evening. Tonight's event is part of our Harvard the authors of recently-published science beyond. To learn more about the series and and sign up for our email newsletter, or check information. Before we get started, I'm just First, just a quick reminder to please silence Tonight's event will conclude with some time the Q&amp;A portion, and one of our event staff that C-SPAN Book TV is here recording this from audience Q&amp;A. If you haven't picked yet, or if you would like your copy personalized, the hallway - right after this event for a signing you so much for buying books from Harvard series and help to ensure the future of our so much to our friends at Harvard for all possible. Introducing Sean Carroll tonight Physics Department. She is a theoretical cosmologist dark matter, neutrinos and other light relics, join me in welcoming Cora Dvorkin. [Applause] Sean Carroll today. Sean Carroll has recently at Johns Hopkins University and he's also a theoretical physicist and as such he has He's also a popular science writer and has I always find him very insightful and thought- when I was an undergrad in Argentina and ever He's very committed to making complex physics in a very unique and wise way. So today he his new trilogy, &quot;The Biggest Ideas in the Universe: only the physical concepts, but also the mathematical way. So please join me in welcoming Professor --Thank you, Cora, thank you! Harvard Book Store - world. Thank you, Harvard University; one where I got my own Ph.D. here, a certain number public - and thank you all very much. I realize that you were able to brave the elements to if this is a laser pointer - what do you think? little afraid - Oh yeah, look at that! I've Volume One; Volume Two will be about quantum complexity and emergence. But there are too of them, so I figured I would pick a big idea flavor of what you would get, were you to about was Einstein's equation and you know - &quot;well, okay, I've seen that before; good - this energy, mass, speed of light squared, good; I'm - not going to be completely unfamiliar&quot; - but what a physicist would mean if they said &quot;oh, earlier today&quot;. Here is Einstein's equation say it out loud, it would be: &quot;R mu nu minus is the field equation for the curvature of we never tell you about this; we might give and that curvature is gravity&quot;, things like you're a physics major - shout out to those but even then, most undergraduates never see It's considered to be too hard; there's all We don't know what's going on. An hour from going to teach you this equation. So how do mechanics. The whole theme of Book One is classical In classical mechanics, the central equation My physics teacher when I was a freshman said remember for the test is &quot;F equals ma&quot; - you but that tells you the central importance Why is this equation so interesting and important? it's not just a suggestion. This is the difference saying the more you push, the more the object relationship that you can use to fly a rocket you need. But the other thing that we don't I mean by that is it's not just saying &quot;this and it accelerated by a certain amount&quot;, it's that a force is exerted on an object with out how it will move, how much it will accelerate. than a physics lecture, we would ask &quot;Why are precise and that universal?&quot; Happily, we're lower that there are, we celebrate that and we move right? &quot;F equals ma&quot; - if you exert a force to its mass, but you need to know what the famous force: the force of gravity, Newton's little object with mass &quot;little m&quot;, this is the accelerating, so this might be the Earth. And be the sun, okay? and you can ask how much force says if you have &quot;capital M&quot; for the big object, also use my computer for this - look, there's thing with magnitude and direction and if what's called a &quot;unit vector&quot;, a vector with in the different circumstances. And what we're force that is acting on this object with mass the little arrows on top of the F and the numbers but between two columns of numbers. in the X direction, a certain amount, the Y That's what it means to be a vector; it has in and the direction it's pointing in in this pointing from the little mass to the big one times capital G, which is Newton's constant That's why it's the inverse square law, when the gravitational pull is relatively strong; and this is how it goes. And so what a physicist are two objects, here their masses, here's their next? How do they move next? And there's a very that the mass of the object being pulled cancels GMm over r squared times e, and so by math that equation and what you get is an equation by the force of gravity. And what you notice individual characteristics of that object. matter how massive it is or how fast it's object the same distance from some other object do this experimentally; you can go up to the and a feather they won't fall at the same not because of the laws of physics at some there's no air resistance, you can ask: &quot;if I the same rate?&quot; and this was done by the Apollo some faith in Newton's laws of physics because Moon to do the experiment - but happily, it turned so this is an artist reconstruction of the masses, fall in the same way under the force this is going to turn into the single most it doesn't matter who you are or what you're the same way. That's going to be crucially paradigm was - this whole setup that Isaac Newton not the final word. In 1905, we had input from when you see a picture of Einstein, it's almost rumpled - the sweaters and everything - and you are like. This is what Einstein looked like relativity and general relativity; his hair I don't want to say what the causal relationship man, that's all I'm going to say. And the theory the theory of general relativity. In special there is. We will get to that - but what Einstein theory of special relativity out of whole reasoning that were coming into it and he And we're not going to go into details about the jargon, some of the phrases, right? &quot;Motion comes from. &quot;The speed of light is constant&quot; - it's an upper limit. And then there's all these contraction, time dilation. In the book, I don't my quirky idiosyncratic worldview, focusing of the fact that back in the Newtonian days agreed on what it was. And it turns out in not going to agree on what length is. So rather contracts for some people and not for others&quot; and correct in the theory of relativity and to know right now is that Einstein didn't on the theory of relativity. That was done who used to be Einstein's professor. So Minkowski he was proudly following his student's and it was he who first said &quot;All this great can be simplified and conceptually made more are not separate: space and time are together all of these effects that you're talking about And his famous quote is &quot;...space by itself, and mere shadows, and only a kind of union of the way that referees would let him get away with but you know, 100 years ago you could do it. step forward, including someone named Albert Minkowski's formulation &quot;makes rather great aspects&quot;. So look: Einstein - let me go out on did as much math as he absolutely had to do. at heart; he didn't do math for the sake of who tried to take these physics theories and And he was worried that that's exactly what and one of Einstein's - maybe his single most and then change his mind: he would very quickly And he came to believe that the space-time the right way to think about it. So let me why is it geometry that we should be thinking If you read all the popular level expositions hear the word &quot;geometry&quot; that much. But the essence distance in space, there's a formula that relates we call the coordinates. Okay - this doesn't New York where the streets are at right angles, total distance between two points. You go by squaring them and using Pythagoras's Theorem equals x squared plus y squared. So what this figuring out the distance between two points is something you could measure, and you notice you would travel depending on the path you almost not worth saying, but you can have two agrees with the distances, but walking a straight personally travel less distance than if you Again, perfectly obvious: the distance you travel reason why I am emphasizing this perfectly relativity is that the same thing is true, is something that will- the elapsed amount And it's Minkowski that gives us a formula in space, and there is some time coordinate time that everyone agrees on, that the International Bureau of Standards is set up, so there are clocks everywhere and In relativity, that universal time coordinate your watch. The time that elapses on your watch and Minkowski's point is that time is like depend on how you travel through the universe, space that you travel through depends on the kind of like Pythagoras's Theorem but it's Tau - stands for what we call the proper time, you experience, okay? And there's a formula set the speed of light equal to one - so you a certain fraction of you that are doing dimensional can subtract time from space so cavalierly; is measured in light-years and time is measured a special role in this theory. But the real feel elapsing is given by this formula, and &quot;t&quot; it will depend on your path through the with a twist, right? because in space we all is a straight line. And you can figure that here, if you've just gone straight up you would x squared plus t squared it's t squared minus move out in space, the less time elapses on the shortest distance is a straight line, but space you traverse and come back, the less the &quot;twin paradox&quot; where there's two twins; one then comes back; it's always hard to remember moves fast and then comes back always experiences the one that just stays stationary. There you Theorem that we've updated for the space-time that minus sign will turn out to be important, that we've seen in our good old high school Well, remember this guy, Einstein, he wasn't relativity but remember the first thing that mechanics, special relativity was an update still want to say like what are the forces - very first thing Newton did was - gravity. Now of relativity were inspired by electromagnetism very, very well right from the start. But gravity do was to update Newton's law of gravity to This turns out to be harder than you think - you make, they don't work. Einstein was no dummy, by things like quantum mechanics that got in on how can we reconcile relativity and we learned about gravity, that it's universal: Einstein had set himself, and he called it this following, very mundane fact - if you're feel the force of gravity, right? For me, it's down, it's pushing you up, preventing you from feel that there's gravity - clearly there's Earth wasn't there but instead the whole Science at one g with a very, very quiet rocket engine; of course, an accelerating rocket would also Earth does in the force of gravity, and you what's so special about gravity? If there was measure the electric field, because you take would be pushed in one direction; proton positively remember, we just learned in a gravitational realized that's exactly the same thing that fall the same way. So if you're in a small the outside world, you can't tell whether you're mimic all of the effects of gravity by just You or I would come up with that insight, we some pizza or something. Einstein was not done reconcile gravity with relativity. And he realized special feature that you can't know that it's in some sense, isn't a force like the other an intrinsic feature of space-time itself. What of space-time. He knew about Minkowski's work; this was a good idea. In Minkowski's geometry, but it's still flat geometry - it's still in learn in high school. What Einstein posited you need to generalize that flat geometry of gravity is a manifestation of the curvature, was Einstein knew nothing about the geometry spaces; he didn't know the right math; again, do it but he was forced to do it under these a friend; he had a buddy, Marshall Grossman, become a professional mathematician. So Einstein geometry of curved spaces, which was only invented at the time - and so we owe a debt of gratitude about curved geometries. There's literally every three years called &quot;The Marshall Grossman next to Einstein. Einstein's sitting there of curved space-time; so what is that? I know mathematics of curved space-time? There's a story of non-Euclidean geometry so there's Euclidean school; it is associated with things like Pythagoras's and most famously, the parallel postulate or day when he really systematized the study about from Euclidean geometry, other people systematize it by saying 'Here's a set of axioms and there is always one axiom that kind of were pretty indisputable, but there was one following thing: if I take a little line segment line segments shooting out at right angles, two other line segments going at right angles, 'no matter how far you follow them they will other'. That is the parallel postulate, and it parallel kind of means, right? So it took until didn't? What if two initially parallel lines was you could invent alternatives to Euclidean thought that Euclidean geometry was the unique saying those initially parallel lines always 'Well, what if they come together? You derive geometry - or what we would now call positively- if the initially parallel lines diverge with a Pringle or a saddle or something like that, not that surprising you've all heard of spheres, on it - if I draw a triangle on a flat plane single time. If I draw a triangle on a sphere, 180 degrees every single time. And if I draw do that, but the angles inside would always set of choices you can make, and this was very, &quot;Great - there are three different kinds of geometry.&quot; there's a hidden thing going on here as well - because if you've ever made a sphere out of is not perfectly spherical; the Earth is not are mountains, right? We can have surfaces or kind of lumpy, maybe it's positively-curved places. None of these choices was equipped question: how do you mathematically describe be anything - where it can be something in some people put their minds to that: one of the arguably the greatest mathematician of all got bored with it. He had a graduate student say &quot;graduate student&quot; Riemann had already gotten their hearts, the doctorate degree isn't enough: to get another exam after the doctorate degree. actually gave him a list - gave Gauss a list the &quot;habilitation degree&quot; on. and Riemann You might hear about &quot;Riemann surfaces&quot;; he Gauss looked at Riemann's list and he pointed boring, namely &quot;the foundations of geometry&quot; teach and he went off to do it, and you can right? It's worth looking at the paper: it's of complains that he has to do this - he's like you know I was told to do this by my advisor, and the problem he is faced with is what is way to describe the geometry of not just the space or even a hypothetical 28-dimensional- is when you have something that is arbitrarily in an equation or an expression. How do you is and encode it in some data? And the answer he was very smart - is &quot;if I draw a curve in that will tell me the length of every possible once and for all.&quot; And this is a dramatic thing surface that- and you know its geometry, and the length of the curve, we know how to do way. Knowing the length of every possible curve or the space or whatever. And we know how to calculus and it's going to involve a generalization strategy was if you want to calculate the the length of an infinitesimal segment of calculus, okay? So what you want to do this Theorem. Pythagoras' Theorem is - Here is the the distance squared is x squared plus y squared gave us for space-time: the proper time squared minus c squared. Those minus signs are stare at these formulas for just a second is some kind of interval squared - a distance of coordinates x y z t and they are squared, plus one or minus one. So what is the most the general &quot;big picture&quot; concept that would thing we can include the possibility that's but maybe there's x times y, x times z something hand side the pattern is we have some kind one coordinate, times the other coordinate - says Riemann, for the interval squared is some times, we have coordinates t x y z. There's y, a t times z, x times t, x squared, etcetera, right? if you're in four-dimensional space-time like of one coordinate and another. And in principle, says Riemann, these coefficients - capital A, capital B, capital C, they could even change from place to place, because remember we're So this is Riemann's answer to the question &quot;How do we encode the geometry of a space?&quot; He says, in the space, we know everything there is to is to know about the geometry.&quot; This is true A, Capital B, 16 of these letters. So what slick notation. So let's invent some slick on space-time, we're going to call it x0 x1 now, not subscripts, already the mathematicians you. So this is not x to the 0 power, x to the four different coordinates with labels superscript Because sometimes we're in three-dimensional time. It would get very annoying if we had every time we change the number of dimensions who start counting at zero, space-time physicists call the whole collection of four coordinates mu means either &quot;x 0&quot; time, x1 x, x 2 y, or begin to see the origin of those letters that R mu nu etcetera. Those subscripts, mu and nu, And then, if you buy that way of writing very slick way of characterizing this interval written G mu nu, and what that means is rather t x, etcetera, we say t squared is x0 squared or x going to call it g00. g00 is the thing that multiplies x0 x1 i.e. t x, and likewise all mu going &quot;zero one two three&quot;, nu for nu going all of the information you need to convey number of dimensions. In four dimensions, like be four times four components. We could imagine nu would be a hundred by a hundred, but still is slick. Okay - good, that's enough math. Let's Minkowski was saying - but now in this slick the time you experience on your watch obeys is t squared minus x squared minus y squared is: there's a coefficient of t squared - that's 0 0 or gtt if you like, is one; whereas the g 1 1 is -1. There's also a coefficient of coefficient is zero. So the whole shebang is in this case just have non-zero entries on all 16 of these numbers with some meaning - symbols. All of the parts of G mu nu which index so like g x x g x y, etcetera, those tell us literally the distance along some curve that this makes any sense, how fast time is flowing. proper time changing with respect to some this weird new possibility and this is one by thinking of ways to generalize something possibilities. So if there were non-zero parts and space - so like g t x t y t z - that would other. I don't know about you but as I go through twist into each other, so I don't need to worry about this for a very long time. But it turns time and space twist into each other very this picture? This is from &quot;Interstellar&quot;, the movie original idea for the screenplay came from Caltech. This is a giant spinning black hole. it is not data from a telescope, it is a computer light from the gas around the black hole spun it, okay? and this was when they made it. is larger than the Caltech budget, let's put a bit of computational resources and thinking hole that they could imagine making and Kip effects shop, and they wrote a paper that appeared on visualizing the gravitational lensing by this work is the idea the time and space twist like that, so these things turn out to matter black hole. Okay - there's one final piece of is a space or space-time with arbitrary amounts that manifold, as we call it, or space, in terms also depends on the coordinate system we use, whatever: what we want is not something that we use, but rather something that right away that we're looking at. So guess what? We have something that is properly called the &quot;Riemann for example. It is something that you can construct Riemann was right; once you have the metric the things you can calculate is the Riemann is and the way it tells you that is by telling fails to be true, okay? So what Euclid says some point in space or space-time; we pick out two rays, and we let them go, and we ask was they stay exactly the same distance apart. necessarily&quot; and what Riemann said is, in particular, they could contract, they can do all sorts we're asking - for any point starting with any lines in any direction, how do they twist or given by the Riemann tensor. So you tell me you're shooting out new rays in; the Riemann push apart, twist around each other, etcetera. It's that every point in space-time it tells you Now I know the first thing that hits you when mu nu is &quot;that's a lot of Greek letters&quot;. Like that was only two Greek letters, and that was What in the world does it mean when we have So what it means is when you have a vector - like the momentum vector of a particle - that direction in space-time a certain component a vector - there's four components P T pxp up compared to that - it is four by four, so tensor - R Lambda rho mu nu - is four by four of four by four matrices - I've written them in the slide; don't- don't even pretend that Writing this down is purely showing off - this the Slick notation, where we can just write the metric. So we can calculate them. And these a finite number and they tell us how curved breath, here's what where we got: we're considering can be arbitrarily complicated. It can be flat whatever you want. Riemann teaches us that calculate the length of every little infinitesimal that is captured in the metric tensor, G mu is captured in the Riemann tensor R Lambda learn: it only took you like 20 minutes - took There are some details that I've been hiding buy the book and the details are in the book. all this math and finally use it to accomplish space-time; he wanted to get an equation for This is Newton's equation for the acceleration a distance R from an object with mass capital side and the left-hand side. On the left-hand to replace that with? One guess is some measure side you have capital M - the mass - the thing you want to replace that with some relativity be enough. You know that somehow, in relativity, what E equals m c squared tells you. What is you need to know about energy, mass and so It is the energy momentum tensor - T mu nu, so and all these numbers mean something: t 0 0 that you're looking at and that includes the that upper-left-hand corner of the energy tell you the pressure. So if you have a gas, x direction, y direction, z direction - there and the off-diagonal terms tell you all this This is the great accomplishment of relativity, are unified together. So the source of gravity of gravity for Einstein is everything energy- the momentum, the pressure - all those things momentum tensor. So - what do we do - what - Now we have the metric, we can derive the Riemann generalized into the energy-momentum tensor, Newton's equation: a is GM over r squared times relating the Riemann tensor - which we said to the energy-momentum tensor. There is a problem, by four by four by four array, a four index four by four array. They don't even have the just set them equal to each other or proportional bit more clever. Happily, there's a way to do it we can sort of boil it down to build smaller about the curvature of space-time but not that only has two indices; there's something at all. So the point is these are well- than the original Riemann tensor and you look we want to set something equal or proportional eyes are drawn to the middle one, the Ricci it's the most natural thing in the world to proportional to T mu nu, and if you guessed that's what he guessed. Turns out not to work. energy and momentum would not be conserved than that; Einstein was, and you got to imagine down because by that time, Einstein, bless his relativity before he was finished formulating this was the project to be worked on. And there on it, so he had to work fast - and he succeeded. and you subtract from it one-half times the two things combined are still a two-index proportional to the energy-momentum tensor physicists think of as Einstein's equation; hard. But we're not done yet. I gotta of course, after one gets an equation like do we know whether it's the right equation? In other words, this is an equation that- because from the metric tensor, so if you have a metric R, and you can ask does it actually equal 8 is looking for functions that go into the So we actually- I've been saying, you know, waving from the metric. What does that actually mean Riemann tensor written out in terms of the this with pencil and paper; kids today use out on some fun late-night experiences - when nu, or a row that looked like a mu, but not as hard as it looks because usually you're of symmetry and things like that. But you know Albert Einstein. He said &quot;Look, I love my equation, it - it's too hard to solve it; how in the world in the audience when he said that was Karl and physicist and mathematician who was serving World War I -1917- but you had some to Einstein's lectures at the Berlin Academy relativity, then he goes back to the front this equation' and he gets this solution. What equation - means to get a form of the metric of the coordinates in space-time. So the question an object like the sun and I idealize it so perfectly spherical and around it it's just and nothing is changing over time?' That's a him to actually solve the equation exactly. metric. This is what you do in general relativity: You're finding a 4x4 array of functions of symmetry, T R theta phi, which are polar coordinates was right and Einstein immediately got said it couldn't be done. He congratulated year later, because he contracted a terrible who went through things like that - but this you would use to calculate the motion of the So Schwarzschild didn't ask what happened a little bit of work, you can do it - but he's so this is the right answer, it has been tested to predict things that were then shown to if you look at this, there's something weird closely - sometimes. So you notice that some like 1 minus 2GM over r; so what happens when is zero, and this TT term, or- sorry, this supposed to do that, that's infinity, that's is infinity or negative infinity - that sounds that this is not an important problem for because this metric is only supposed to apply bigger than GM outside the Sun, so this doesn't your imagination is going to go 'Okay, what to a little ball so that it was smaller than happen is a black hole: that point r equals you can see this, because remember - the zero pays off now- this is paying off - that zero is the rate of time flowing compared to some what that means is that if you throw a clock slows down more and more and you never see fall into a black hole, then your personal a terrible mistake so the light from your of the outside observer - so it looks like you're black hole which probably you are. This is an image a slightly spruced-up image people here at Harvard have been working on is- the point I want to drive home is Albert graves not having any clue there was any such to understand black holes; they certainly weren't did was derive an equation and then solve smarter than we are. This is why it's worth rather than just telling you stories and metaphors in that universality in the equations, and trying to understand originally, you might of a black hole was lurking there inside Einstein's it took decades for physicists to realize These days we use Einstein's equation to describe of the universe, in spiraling black holes, the matter and dark energy. None of these things but they were all implicit in the equations. is to look at them and go &quot;I don't know those worth it to stretch our brains a little bit, us think about the universe in a very different - and we are going to take questions - maybe and there are people with microphones ready a question, and I'm supposed to call on them take care of it for you. --Okay -Someone asked --It doesn't help- 'over here' --Oh, sorry, I'm back -or stage right - left - I'm not sure - your left - my question. Having all these tools to explain next on your hunt, or what are your professional Johns Hopkins? --Well, not to be too obvious and cliched about it, but what drove Einstein to this great accomplishment was a fundamental incompatibility between gravity as Newton understood and we all know that there is a remaining, wonderful theory of general relativity and been trying to reconcile these two things mechanics itself, which by the way will be in the Universe&quot; is something which physicists to understand. General relativity makes perfect it, but okay, it's very beautiful and very understandable. we're saying when we talk about quantum mechanics. don't understand quantum mechanics might be quantum gravity. I think that we got lucky else in the universe - electromagnetism and Those were a simple step of starting with you try to do that for gravity, for general we need to understand quantum mechanics better next? Yes, anyone? Yeah. --Thank you, thank you very differences between physicists and mathematicians, about the physical implications of his work, and I'm wondering if you'd like to Einstein, getting to general relativity first; Einstein to accomplish that when so others --Well, I do not want to take a victory lap; I is- it's harder to find a better example of The physi- the mathematicians would never weren't being bugged by the incompatibility like the physicists were, but sometimes in a new phenomenon and they need to invent new It would have taken a long time for the physicists something that you need to be an accomplished to think about it is it was the perfect synergy the mathematical way of thinking. how's oh- --Go ahead --So two of my we are - I love that; another one is that time messages you had a slide up there where you things that were being explained in the tensor but I'm wondering if there's anything in those you know, empiricists are really trying to there anything hidden in the equations given indicate that causation is also not necessarily imagine it to be? --Good. So the short answer but - but I need to be careful because not everyone also frequently happens. I think that the notion notion of causation emerges at a higher level things, a pronounced arrow of time, that distinguishes most important things about cause and effect experience. I think that you can account for for other asymmetries in time via the increase over time, but these equations that we're dealing not higher-level coarse-grained equations, in time, and there's no associated notion of will talk about this. Yes. --Oh, hi, Professor Carroll. have a wonderful podcast. I wanted to say of space-time is pretty complex, and just as pretty weird as well. I wanted to ask how should statements such as 'the age of the universe exactly mean, given the weirdness of time and --Very, very good question because, as we said, on the trajectory that you take through the lives because it only becomes noticeable when with respect to each other, near the speed in cosmology, the universe is full of things speed of light. Galaxies move with respect of light. And so when cosmologists say the from the perspective of just about any galaxy elapsed. We can imagine crazy galaxies that have experienced a different amount of time, a little casual about it but there is something --Sean Carroll, thank you very much, and I'm and I- as a result, I know that this might be but Nima Arkani-Hamed: he talks talks, &quot;space-time is doomed&quot; - now I know he got it from - where space and time is separate is to the extent you're familiar with his that he's onto something? --Nima Arkani-Hamed, who was temporarily a Harvard professor for a little while, is one of the best physicists we have. The good, and I certainly agree with him that the hard part is what's going to replace it, on the right track or not. It certainly led approach - was a little bit different - which it's leading to - but I do think that if we part of the fundamental understanding of space at least space is not going to be fundamental. but it's not going to be one of the fundamental a higher level. Space will be like the temperature found in the fundamental laws, but it's a good grain level of description. I think that's to show how much parallel lines would deviate lensing&quot; - that's exactly what gravitational realized is that light traveling through curved of space. So you can watch initially-parallel because gravity is attractive, but you can absolutely observe that. Likewise in the cosmic microwave background, you can make a big triangle, cosmic microwave background, the leftover radiation inside, and coincidentally, they do add up to know they could have been something else. --Well, for what it's worth. At the beginning, you philosophy would ask &quot;why a given law is universal&quot; I think that a different way to frame that know that a given law is universal if we don't universal, and is that question worth examining? know whether a fundamental law is universal because the answer is obviously no: we'd never or not. We know it's the most fundamental we're thing about science is that tomorrow an experiment So there's never any claim here that we're done, and --Oh - was there anything - interesting to- new James Webb Telescope, like images? --Yeah - at Johns Hopkins, I can look across the street Science Institute. So I'm contractually obligated hard, because it's a wonderful telescope that the universe. But let me has already and will continue to teach us the universe and how it has evolved, and it new about fundamental physics. That's not the how galaxies formed and looking for planets and things like that, super-important things, realm of physics as we already understand to overthrow the laws of physics. --Let's take better make them good. --Hello - my name on the left side- --Oh, there you are- --Just the attempt to make it quasi-realistic - in a future book - on the possibility of time 30 seconds on what I'm sure is a thousand you; I'm not going to reflect on that because first trade book is called &quot;From Eternity to Time&quot; and I talk about both parallel universes relativity, which says that space-time is curved about time travel in a serious scientific not possible. But honestly, we don't know, and People like Kip Thorne and also myself have find solutions to Einstein's equation that And the answer is you can, strictly speaking, there's no sort of clean, reliable way to twist visit yourself in the past and undo your mistakes. Alex; thanks for taking my question. Back of the equation that we were getting to, in Riemann tensor to the Ricci tensor - in doing mathematical understanding of it isn't at we losing some information which would mean aren't losing any information in doing this, way? --Excellent question. Someone's been paying but think about it: so this equation - right it involves some parts of the Riemann tensor, it sets it equal to the energy-momentum tensor. include the whole Riemann tensor allows us with exactly the same configuration of energy of space-time, and you do, and they're called can propagate in empty space. So one solution unit was just zero everywhere, there's no stuff space-time, no curvature; but another solution so you don't want the left-hand side of Einstein's tensor in terms of the energy-momentum tensor; it turns out you go the next layer and you- Riemann tensor that are not directly fixed to the components that are, once you take their that all hell is broken loose. There's still waves from Einstein's equation. --Last question up at the top: --Hi there- I was wondering if you have a favorite current theologian or philosopher and why, and as you're thinking about trying are there any philosophers or theologians the math equations or the physics that you're since I'm jointly appointed in the physics my favorite one is myself - but if you exclude those - um - I'm not going know and admire are all my friends, or sometimes get them jealous. But let me - instead say the following thing: there's a continuum hardcore physicists who just calculate things smoking jackets and talk about the meaning exist, but there's a lot of activity in between. Hopkins called &quot;The Forum on Natural Philosophy&quot; was not a dividing line between physics and More broadly, I think that there's plenty of completely irrelevant but there's also plenty is extremely helpful, if not crucial. So rather I would rather say let's get everyone to be bit of a scientist. [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] --Thank you so much - applause. We're going to take the professor over to the to personalize your books if you want them for sale in the lobby. Thank you everyone.