Let's bring in CNN's Nick Paton Walsh. Tell us more about what we know regarding Ukraine. Using the U.S. made its missiles and what the potential targets were. Yeah. We know only what the Russian minister of defense is telling us, which is about 330. 3:25 a.m. local time. Six missiles, they say, were fired at a military facility in Bryansk. That's another region on the border area not far away from Kursk, which currently has a significant Ukrainian military presence inside of it. Now, the Russians claim that they took out five of those six. We've heard that in the past that they have claimed to significantly, prevented Ukrainian air results. But the significance here, of course, is that nobody appears to be wasting any time in getting this permission from the Biden administration into the battlefield, possibly because it is possible that when President Donald Trump, takes office in January the 20th, he may reverse, the frankly unexpected but long in the mind of Ukraine overdue decision, by President Joe Biden at the weekend. It's extraordinary because of the pace here. I'm not sure it's necessarily unexpected to some degree, because we have known that Ukraine have been in possession of attack arms missiles like this to hit targets inside of occupied areas of Ukraine. And so in theory, I suppose the target list would have already been in their possession. And this simply being a matter of Kiev deciding that they wanted to use this new US permission. But it comes on the thousandth day of a war so full of unexpected, moments here. And I think we are now going to have to see whether Ukraine steps forward and officially acknowledges that this indeed was an attack missile launching this particular strike. just in the last 48 hours, President Volodymyr Zelensky has sort of hedged that generally saying, look, we're not going to necessarily announce this. Missiles will speak for themselves. Well, certainly that news has indeed emerged. What could Russia's response be? They have been unclear at this particular point previously, warning, that if these missiles were fired by Ukraine, supplied as they are by the United States, that that would essentially be NATO, the US and Europe joining the war, becoming a party to the conflict. Putin has not reiterated that himself since this, but indeed his foreign ministry made similar noises. So it's a key moment here. Certainly. And it's one important to phrase it here. And we're seeing the Trump presidency loom, the likelihood of negotiations, their European allies maneuvering, showing the fact they're not on the same page, frankly, as Olaf Schultz, the lame duck chancellor of Germany, made a call to the Kremlin head, on Friday. That notion of diplomacy is clear. and coming down the track. And so I think we're seeing the Biden administration giving this permission to use the attack arms to potentially complicate, the war that's President Trump, president elect Trump inherits. And I think also give Ukraine a chance on the battlefield to get the upper hand. Remember, they're very worried the Americans about North Korean troops and a Russian offensive into that Kursk area, where Ukrainian troops are currently occupying part of it. Yeah, it's been Nick and a remarkable series of events, starting with President Biden. with this major change in policy allowing Ukraine to use these longer range missiles inside Russia. And then what we saw was Putin signing this declaration, revising of the nuclear doctrine that you mentioned, that would, basically declare that a conventional attack on Russia by any nation supported by a nuclear power would be considered a joint attack. And then we see, Ukraine using these long range missiles. we it's yet to be seen what Russia's response will be, but this would obviously be seen as, quite an escalation by Moscow. Yeah. Look, I mean, they saw the, American decision as an escalation. The American saw the decision by Russia to station North Korean troops on the front lines as an escalation by Russia. And so we have that ladder, people continuing to climbing. I'm not sure, really what Vladimir Putin's statement today and his amendment to the nuclear doctrine, outside of the scariness of the words amendment to the nuclear doctrine, actually necessarily does it essentially says, the conventional attacks by multiple parties against Russia, could potentially lead to responses by Russia towards those parties. It's nuanced, highly nuanced, but it's part of a pattern that we've seen where Moscow feels potentially under threat or looks, you know, feels it has to make a sort of bombastic statement that it reaches for the phrase, to remind people that it is indeed a nuclear power. do I necessarily think this means that Vladimir Putin is getting ready to launch nuclear weapons? No. Certainly not. He appears to have shied away from that significantly. Over a thousand days of war where Russia has experienced multiple conventional military defeats. Indeed, it's been invaded by a much smaller army, Ukraine, in just the last about four months. but I do think it's a bid by them to try and please a domestic audience who might be wondering exactly what, juice Russia has left at this particular moment. And I think it is his way of suggesting that this is perhaps Moscow's response. Do they necessarily have the military might to take on NATO in full? Well, almost certainly not. They're struggling to defeat Ukraine. do they necessarily have, the desire geopolitically to inflame this conflict? Remember, you know, China is a key ally in here and probably doesn't want to see that happen ahead of a Trump presidency. So I think if we do see outside of this statement by the Kremlin head, Vladimir Putin, any further responses, from Russia, we might end up looking at sabotage. there have been many accusations that Russia's been behind exploding packages and courier depots. Indeed. We have, reports from Lithuania and Germany that undersea internet cables to Scandinavia have been damaged in the last 48, 72 hours. That's, I think, where we'll potentially see this, exacerbate. But be in no doubt here at all. We're into a very different part of the war here. American made and supplied weapons are being fired into Russian territory. That's a place that we frankly never imagined we'd get to. A thousand days ago. Joining us right now to talk much more about this and all the headlines really coming in this morning is global affairs analyst Kim Dozier. And Kim, I want to focus in on what we've really learned, about coming from the white House, the white House giving the green light to Ukraine to use attack ons and missiles to go farther into Russia, firing into Russia. We just learned this morning that Russian state media confirms Ukraine did fire long range missiles provided by the United States into Russia for the first time. Really, it seems Ukraine wasting no time after getting that green light. What's your sense of what impact this has on this war? Well, this feels like the Biden administration's attempt to checkmate both Putin and Trump on the way out. In terms of Putin. You know, Putin has just signed this updated policy for use of nuclear weapons, saying essentially that if any nuclear armed power enables another power to attack Russia. Read if the U.S. allows Ukraine to attack in Russia proper, then we could possibly use nuclear weapons. But with this few weeks to go to an incoming Trump administration, why would Putin do that and jeopardize security writ large and basically waste his ammunition right now by using nuclear weapons? So that's checkmated. And on the Trump side of things, yes. Trump could, turn around this policy on January 20th and pull back the permissions and say, Ukraine, you can no longer use these long range weapons inside Russia. But in the interim, what are, countries like Britain and France going to do? They weren't giving permission for the use of their long range weapons until the U.S. did. So they could now say, hey, you can use our storm shadow systems to help. And all of these weapons being enabled at once could help Kyiv retain Kursk through the Trump administration taking office. And then they've got Kursk as a bargaining chip, to trade off for parts of the Donbas or maybe even parts of Crimea when they sit down with this inevitable, negotiation that Trump says he's going to organize between Moscow and Key. It is so interesting because and also add into this can one of the reasons, one of the reasons long offered for why the white House did not give this approval sooner, though we know Zelenskyy has been asking for this for quite some time, is the risk of pushing this war to escalate further? This morning, as you mentioned, we heard that we now Putin has put out this new nuclear doctrine which could point to escalation. But what do you see in this? Do you see this as the white House very clearly just trying to do as you as you point out, kind of checkmate. Both of them boxed both of Trump and Putin in as they're heading out the door. Or do they just don't think the risk is as risky of escalation anymore? Well, it's that Putin has made these threats from the beginning. And I've spoken to European leaders who've been frustrated with the Biden White House, saying Putin is playing Biden, playing, national security adviser Jake Sullivan, that he knows as long as he waves the nuclear flag that they will back off. And so now, in the waning days of the administration, they're saying, all right, you're not going to you're not going to use them now. So we can we can call you, we can call your bluff. but the fact of the matter is, this only works if Trump really wants to solve this in 24 hours. Once he comes into office, or in a very brief amount of time. Because in the long term, without U.S. support of Ukraine, Ukraine is going to have to capitulate, because Europe simply doesn't have the manufacturing capacity to make enough weapons to backfill what the U.S. is supplying right now. So that's the long term situation Kiev is looking at. So basically, the Biden administration is trying to set the table so that President Zelensky has as much riding on his side as possible when he sits down to get likely strong armed by Trump together with Putin.