quick Give way Everyone calm down. Get out first and don't mess up the scene. Yes, everyone, exit first and stay in your position. Protect other Goryeo envoys Captain Lu, you lead your men to guard Laiyi Pavilion closely. Chen Dao Tou Ni Ling Ren Si Zhou Che Di Sou Cha Find the suspicious person good What are you doing? The wolf girl's friend is also a werewolf They often bully us. Kill you If you continue to be so naughty, I will take you back to the government office. No trace left on the sand How can there be such a skill of lightness? slingshot What are you doing? What's wrong with you? Did it come from a slingshot? slingshot? Where can you find a slingshot that big? Walk Hey, why are you climbing so high? You better be careful I see What do you know? What for? What are you looking for? Found it I found the ghost. It's not July 30th. Isn't it a bit early to release river lanterns? You're alone in the middle of the night What are you doing here? We thought you were possessed. Brother Shen, where can this river lantern float to? Bamboo Forest of One Hundred Demons Bamboo Forest of One Hundred Demons You can't run away, I caught you, let me go I know Xiao Ai uses river lanterns to send you food Are you, a little beggar? Bao Zheng, what happened? Tell me quickly. To answer your question, Xiao Ai was in a coma for two days. When you wake up Not only did he not complain of hunger, he also complained of being sleepy. I knew she was lying. It turns out that she was To cover up for the man who saved her That's the ghost girl. You said she was the ghost Sir, her name is Ling Chuchu That's the ghost girl. What? Ling Chuchu is a female ghost? Listen to the yamen runners That female ghost will float around Rising Then, the ghost that slowly rose in the emperor's room How did you make it? In the same way, she also uses the toughness of bamboo Entered Laiyi Pavilion without anyone noticing Words are not enough, where is the evidence? What if you don't agree? Take this thin steel cable on your body Go up to the bamboo tree outside Laiyi Pavilion Check the traces It's crystal clear. Yes, that's right, I sneaked into Laiyi Pavilion I really can't stand the behavior of that prince. Too mean Xiao Ai often brings food to worship the female ghost Of course, I'll eat it. So when she was kidnapped I followed to Laiyi Pavilion Waiting for an opportunity to rescue her Because Xiao Ai is afraid of being held accountable So I figured out a way Teach her to say that she was saved by a female ghost Then he placed her on the sand dunes Let the one who has been frightened The guy who was pissing his ass off believed it was true I thought Xiao Ai was really blessed by a female ghost. So, Xiao Ai was able to escape. Then why did you kill our prince? I didn't kill your prince. I'm just saving people. General Park, the case is not yet concluded How can you abuse lynching? I'm avenging the prince. You can't control General Park, don't act recklessly. Listen to the Seventh Prince. Lord Gongsun, now that the real murderer has been captured Why hasn't the verdict been announced yet? yes... Sir, Chuchu is not the murderer After Chuchu rescued the girl that night Then they returned to the Bamboo Forest of Hundred Demons. If I want to come back to Yige again, no matter how good my Qinggong is, At least half an hour Chuchu, she doesn't have time at all Come back and kill the prince Yes, although we have evidence Chuchu sneaks into Laiyi Pavilion to save people But there is no evidence that she killed anyone. Human life is at stake Isn't it too hasty to judge this case? Preserve the principles of heaven and eliminate human desires If we take human life lightly, where is justice? Your Highness, it's too late today. Why not just take these two young ladies Take him back for further questioning Yes... another day, I will judge Okay, let's see how long you can hold out. Walk Walk You really are Just now you spoke for Chuchu and others This will make the Goryeo prince unhappy. The reason I think Chuchu and the others are not the real murderers. Do you want me to play dumb? Allow the Goryeo prince to kill innocent people? Now is not the time to talk about this Now we have to catch the murderer Give an explanation to the Goryeo prince Explain... Is it for the sake of explanation? Just let Chu Chu be the scapegoat? You are getting more and more outrageous. This is not about the life and death of these two people. The fate of the two countries is at stake. Besides, they are indeed suspects. good I will judge tomorrow this... It seems The two of them really can't escape death. Bao Zheng, Bao Zheng I never miss a person Don't let me down I am an unlucky person I've implicated you this time. I really feel bad. Don't say that. The case has not been judged yet. Maybe we don't have to die here. The fortune teller showed me my face I said I could live to be ninety. I won't die here. This damn place But you keep knocking What are you doing? Fool, find a way out God said you can live to be ninety You can't just sit here and wait to die. maybe Maybe we can find a way out. Then we don't have to sit here and wait to die. You fool Come with me Who are you? Brother Shen Stop talking so much, go away stop... I knew you would run away. So arrange everything See where you run to Chen Liang ,Guo Ran Shi Ni Walk stop Chuchu, are you okay? fine What the hell are you doing? Actually, I arranged all this. Shi Wo Qing Chen Liang Da Ge Jia Ban Jie Yu Jiu Ni Men I'm sorry I did this It's to save you. The Goryeo prince is good at martial arts But the murderer could In an instant, he was scratched more than forty times. Crown Prince of Goryeo No chance of fighting back This can only mean The murderer's martial arts skills are better than that of the Goryeo prince But just now between life and death No one retained any strength. This proves that Chuchu's Qinggong is not bad. But in terms of real kung fu She still can't Xiao Ai has no martial arts skills. General Park, do you agree? This proves The murderer who killed the Goryeo prince that day was someone else Of course If Gao Li just wants to find a scapegoat and get the matter over with I have nothing to say Anyway, the prince is your prince Whether the death is unjust or not has nothing to do with me What a pity It's a pity that you two died unjustly. Our Goryeo is definitely not a barbarian country. Since this case has nothing to do with these two girls We won't make it difficult Since they have nothing to do with this case That has nothing to do with us. The Goryeo prince died in a sealed room It's really bizarre When you rescued Xiao Ai and left Did you find anything special? At that time, time was tight After I frightened the prince I immediately pulled Xiao Ai Fly out of the window I didn't find anything special. Nothing found No, that's right There is a cross Cross Yeah...I remember now. There is a shadow of a cross Hanging on the beam Walk That night when I flew out the window I can vaguely see a corner of the roof There is a cross-shaped shadow Hanging lightly under the beam How big is it Probably, about two feet long and two feet wide. I didn't see it clearly The feeling at that time It just feels a bit strange. If you hadn't mentioned it, I wouldn't have remembered it. When the prince died, he carved a cross Now there is another cross Could this cross be a murder weapon? Hanging on the beam If it wasn't the murder weapon What does the cross represent? Sir, we cannot sit on this evidence. Chen Liang ,Zai Qu Kan Kan You Shi Yao Xian Suo Brother Bao, how about I ask the workers Let's check again What's missing from this room? good In my opinion, the clues to track down the murderer Should be locked in three ranges The first one is this The murderous cross that I don't know what it means The second is the group of men in black The third is that someone lied when he came to Yige that night Is the mysterious cross related to this case? Still under investigation The people in Laiyi Pavilion They don't have any doubts. You have no proof that they are lying. Now we can continue our investigation. It's the men in black. Yes, these men in black We should find out their identities. The government has now sent more personnel Find out their origins It's just a matter of time. Owner I'm trying my best The assassination attempt failed. I know that I have failed my mission. I hope to be punished. Brother, why is it so confusing? You can tell at a glance that you're a nerd I only know how to study and I don't know what's going on in the world. What will happen in the world? The war is about to begin. The Goryeo army has gathered at the border. I'll call you anytime. To avenge their prince Think about it, the Crown Prince of Goryeo died in Luzhou If a war breaks out, then I won't be the first to bear the brunt. Therefore, the common people of Luzhou have relatives to visit. Even those who have no relatives store grain and food Afraid of siege It seems that what the people say is not groundless. Now the Goryeo army is approaching The Liao army also made some moves Moreover, Liao had already sent envoys to Goryeo. If the two countries join hands It will definitely be detrimental to our Song Dynasty. Liao is moving fast Now, we can only find The murderer of the Koreans There is an explanation to the King of Goryeo To calm his anger But we are at a loss now. My Lord, It was reported that a fire broke out in a dilapidated temple in the south of the city last night I rushed to the scene to investigate and found... What did you find? Found several dead bodies and and what And a few dogs And the dead were all dressed in black Probably the murderers. Walk It rained heavily last night. There is water everywhere. Don't get your feet wet. Fortunately, this heavy rain Put out the fire, otherwise both the people and the temple will be destroyed. All turned to ashes Lord, look This dart is the one that was used to assassinate the Crown Prince of Goryeo Be careful, this dart is highly poisonous So, the water on the ground was stained with poison. Poisoned the dog drinking water It seems that these men in black The assassin who killed the Goryeo prince Then why did they die in the temple? All these people died from swords in their throats. He must have been killed by their mastermind. But, I don't understand this. Look, judging from the positions of these people, This means they were lined up at the time. Look at their injuries They are facing the killer. Yes, they may be facing the enemy. Very likely But look at their wounds. Very coherent, done in one go This means that the people Killed five people with one sword. But these five people all know martial arts. If you can be fully alert Killed five people with one sword I don't think it's an easy task Unless there are two possibilities One is that they are totally unprepared. The second is that they are willing to die. Whatever the possibility This only means that the killer is their master. Why were they willing to die? There is only one reason Their assassination failed So, this is the outcome. No matter what the reason Take the body back first. Check it out first Yes, come, take it away Wait a moment Where are you going? I'm going too. Your Majesty, what is going on? If I guessed correctly The murderer of these people It's about to show up Secondary School Please sit down. Xiao Er, I have something to ask you A few days ago, a Korean Fight with people here Someone burned my back with a teapot Is that teapot there? teapot What are you looking for the teapot for? Is it there? this... Come What is going on? Someone is transplanting flowers and trees I think I know who the murderer is. But what is the motive? Why do you want to kill people? What is going on? Why kill people? What's the reason for killing? Not for fame Just for profit Otherwise it's for Lu How can there be so many reasons? He has fame, and he also has profit. Lu, I understand. It's not that simple Chuchu, go I tell you, you are the best in Luzhou No, the smartest person in the world What do you know? What are you looking for? Just tell me a little bit Maybe I can help you find it. Almost there... Oh yeah... That's the motive for the murder. Where did Bao Zheng go? Why can't you come back now? Dad, can you please be quiet for a moment? Can I calm down? Time is so tight It will be troublesome if we can't solve the case. They are back... Sir, I found it. Has the murderer been caught? I found out the identity of the leader of the black gang. Who is it? It is the seventh prince of Goryeo, Li Xi But he also has an alibi. Then I'll break his first Alibi Li Xi said that night He was drinking at Chunfeng Manyue Tower in the east of the city I also quarrel with others Yes, he can't come back to kill people. He was in time, because the It's not him at all Who is that? One of his men. One of the Men in Black He had an assassin wear his clothes Fun in the East Side He also quarreled with others intentionally Make an impression on him The Song people rarely saw Koreans I don't remember the appearance clearly So, I can only remember the clothes. According to the testimony of the people at the scene We all thought it was Li Xi It was seamless. But The man in black got burned on the back by the kettle But it became the biggest flaw No wonder Li Xi Don't let me go out with him. In fact, Li Xi left Laiyi Pavilion Soon he sneaked back Later he told his servants He just came back from outside. It's just a lie Then why did Li Xi want to kill the prince? They are brothers What good will this do him? Because they are brothers I just checked the Goryeo family tree. Although the Goryeo king had many sons But most of them have died Crown Prince Li Gang is the eldest son If the eldest son dies The seventh prince Li Xi succeeded to the throne Li Xi has many killers Just to assassinate Li Gang Failed Assassination He would kill people to silence them I see Know what? Li Xi's Li It starts from the cross The cross Maybe a fork. That's the first letter of the word &quot;Xi &quot;. Of course, it could also be seven characters. Not finished yet See, I'm definitely not dumber than you. But But what? Now the evidence is there Bring all the troops immediately Arrive at Laiyi Pavilion to arrest people Wait a minute Your Majesty, that was just my personal speculation. There are still many mysteries that have not been solved. Like how did he get in? How to kill people How did you get out? That's enough. Now there is a motive for murder. And the assassin is his subordinate He has no alibi either. Therefore, it is enough to prove that the culprit is Li Xi That doesn't mean he did it. You don't have to say more. I have my own reasons The Eighth Wise King has always been calm and steady. Wisdom Why are you so arbitrary today? He is not arbitrary I just don't want to hear you go on. Why? Because he had to arrest people. What is going on? Because the suspect is the seventh prince of Goryeo. That's enough How is this enough? Just a suspect. Bao Zheng, you have a good brain There are many things in this officialdom You have to figure it out slowly What happened? Bao Zheng, go and have a look Yes, go Hurry up...hurry up Qirui, come here and seal the door No one is allowed to approach Listen to me Quickly seal off Laiyi Pavilion for me It's exactly the same as the last time the prince died. Chen Liang ,Ni Ma Shang Pai Ren Qu Zhuo Na Xiong Shou Lu Yun, send someone to protect the Korean envoys as soon as possible Go, yes Bao Zheng, please check here carefully. I'll report to Master Qiansui. It seems that I was not wrong The murderer is not the Seventh Prince The doors and windows are locked from the inside This is another sealed murder case. What's wrong? Apart from scratches There is also a very thin wound Probably a sword wound. Look Sword wounds...Sword wounds are not so thin. What weapon should it be? What is it? One word One word It was a word he wrote before he died. Afraid of being seen by the murderer So I blocked it with my hands Yes, you should know what it is. I should know Another murderous cross The prince is dead. Even the Seventh Prince died Eighth Prince, can anyone tell me What is going on? You are really angry. This matter cannot be rushed. Two princes died. You told me not to worry. Lord Eight, according to your words Did the murderer kill us all? I'm anxious. We are also sad that this happened Princess, we will do our best to catch the murderer. To ensure everyone's safety Guarantee, how to guarantee? I've heard this many times. The murders are still happening It's you, the Eighth Prince. Do you dare to take the risk? Visitors Tell General Park to come into the city to pick us up. We don't need these Song people to protect us Pack your bags and get ready to go How about it? What's wrong? Nothing Let's go What to do? Any clues? My Lord, I have checked all the servants in Laiyi Pavilion. It was still early Therefore, all the servants All waiting in the servants' room, waiting to be called No one left All in All in It seems that this Li Xi He really wanted to assassinate the prince. He also planned the assassination attempt in the city On the night of the incident, he attempted to assassinate But the real murderer got there first. Now, even he himself was killed Why did the murderer kill people? Lord This matter is like this tea Once you spill it, you can't take it back. Kill... Go... Heitan, get up quickly... Here we go... I want to sleep, don't call me if anyone comes The Koreans called Just let them fight. What did you say? Come on! What? The Koreans are calling? Yes, come on. No more... The Korean soldiers went crazy Eighth Prince, please go out the back door I'm here to support you Eighth Prince, you... Eighth Prince, let's go! Otherwise it will be too late Eighth Prince, it's alright. Eighth Prince, please leave now The Korean soldiers are coming, let's go! Pour tea You didn't leave The people of the city did not leave Do you think I can leave? I can't leave I have to go out and take a look My Lord... Whoever dares to stop me from entering the city will die Let me go... stop I'm going Too dangerous Will be beaten to death There is an assassin Stop, be careful, go away Do not move You Song people Are you okay? To assassinate Slow down We're not here to commit murder. Still quibbling What are those two men in black doing here? We are looking for a sword. What sword? A sword that killed the seventh prince What kind of sword is that? A thin as a cicada wing The wound is only a thin line of sword That's the sword What nonsense are you talking about? OK, everyone, please come and have a look. Please take a look On the Seventh Prince's Neck There is a very thin line What about this wound? It was caused by Minister Cui's sword. It turns out that the Seventh Prince was killed by you It's not me, he's talking nonsense Actually, I have never figured it out You often say practice sword, practice sword But no one has seen your sword. So where is your sword hidden? Until this afternoon I saw it on the street A man with wire tied around his waist selling magic rings I just remembered Yes, the sword is made of steel It can be made very thin and hidden around the waist It will be done without anyone noticing. later I think of the Seventh Prince again Small wound on the neck I put the whole incident together. My jigsaw puzzle is complete. He is, you killed him Not me I wasn't there I'm practicing sword in my room. But what they saw Just a shadow Practicing sword in the room Maybe it's someone else. For example, the princess who has practiced martial arts since childhood Don't involve the princess. But it all started because of her Is it right? You are talking nonsense You made all this up. I have no reason to kill the crown prince. Yes, you have Because they know your secret Must die What secret? Minister Cui has an affair with the princess Return of the Pearl Bao Zheng, do you have any evidence for what you say? This afternoon I saw a personal maid beside the princess. Wearing Song Dynasty clothes I bought a bag of safflower. To abort the fetus. Later when we visited I heard her scream of pain again. It is because of the reaction after eating safflower Is it right? You can slander me for anything. I just can't destroy the princess's innocence. Get lost Whoever takes one more step forward will die. Minister Cui, you should put down your butcher knife. No matter what, I won't allow you to hurt the princess. We have no intention of harming the princess. We just want to send you back to Goryeo Let the King of Goryeo decide your fate I'm not going back You all, get out of here. Did you hear that? Kwang-ho, forget it. The matter has been exposed Stop making unnecessary sacrifices. But Please listen to me one last time. I didn't expect it. The real murderer is you Me and Suk-hee We fell in love a long time ago I wanted to ask the emperor to grant me marriage. I didn't expect the emperor to Promising Su Ji to Emperor Song For national peace To quell the conflict We can only put aside our children's personal feelings Accept silently Your love deserves respect But you guys are going too far. No, we definitely didn't do anything out of line. We just respect each other. Heaven and earth can prove it Suu Kyi...the flesh and blood in Suu Kyi's belly Not mine Whose is that? It's that beast Li Gang You are not allowed to insult the prince He is worse than a beast. Li Gang, this beast I have been coveting the princess for a long time. We are on our way out He has revealed his true colors Come here... come here don't want Help Later, the Seventh Prince also discovered us Kwang-ho, I'm scared Don't be afraid, Li Gang is already dead No one will bully you anymore. Kill me if you can. Anyway, I have already discovered your affair You will kill me sooner or later. Mitsuhiro Seventh Prince, please think twice If the news gets out Unrequited humiliation of the national polity Shame on Goryeo Perhaps the Emperor Song was angry Leading the army to Goryeo By then, things will get out of control. Guanghao is willing to go back with the prince to die I hope the prince doesn't Spread the word The Seventh Prince Wang Han Why did you kill him? I didn't kill him, that's for sure. We didn't really kill anyone. Okay, stop quibbling. Now the evidence is overwhelming Bring the person back first. Come on Lord Take people away Do not take away They committed the crime in the territory of our Song Dynasty Of course we have to give an explanation to the King of Goryeo. First, lock them up in Laiyi Pavilion. Wait for the envoy sent by the King of Goryeo I'll give them back to you. This is the end of these two murders. Eight Wise Kings There are still some unclear points in this case Bao Zheng, you did a good job Don't bother with this case anymore. Everything is handled by the King How did you find the clue? Go to the Korean military camp to get people Why didn't you inform me? I was sent by the Emperor. The person in charge of this matter Have you forgotten everything? Back to Taishi We have consulted the Eighth Wise King on this matter. It was the Eighth Wise King's instruction. It is indeed the King Because it's an emergency Failure to discuss with Master Pang in time I think you won't mind, right? The Eighth Sage King is highly respected. I can get the help of the Eighth Wise King to handle this case. The heavy stone in my heart is now half lighter. However, I follow the Emperor's order. Fully responsible for this case What if something goes wrong? I can't bear it, old man The evidence is solid, what could go wrong? But Minister Cui and Princess Didn't plead guilty. Which murderer is willing to admit it? What if you killed someone yourself? They are all from the Goryeo court. We are not in a position to use punishment To the King of Goryeo As for the future? The case has come to this The King of Goryeo will not say anything. Do you say so? Master Pang That's right. That's right. The Eight Wise Kings Can't go wrong Since the Eighth Wise King has captured the real murderer Just do as the Eighth Wise King wishes. My husband won't have any objection. But in two days I'm about to return. I will report everything to the Emperor. Goodbye first Not far away