it is in my humble opinion fundamental to least with an energy deficit through uh nutritional why if you do not lift weights even if you losing body fat evidence shows 25 percent from muscles if you don't do resistance treatment nothing can be characterized more so than doing anything over 12 to 15 repetitions it's it's just muscle endurance you're not going shown I just there's so much literature on research as well as many others and it shows of muscle regardless of the loading across to even 40 repetitions which is along that's [Rhonda] Hi, everyone. I'm sitting here with Dr. Brad Schoenfeld, a professor at Lehman College in the Bronx, His research primarily focuses on muscle adaptations He has published over 300 studies in the field I am super excited to talk about so many things training, about the mechanics, training load, sets, whether we should rest or stretch or and muscle adaptations to resistance training. This is going to be a great podcast. So, Brad thank you so much for coming out. I'm really excited to learn everything that related to muscle hypertrophy and muscle adaptations But maybe we can just start with resistance I mean, why should people care about resistance [Brad] So, in my humble opinion, certainly are very beneficial. Doing something has always been better than But if I were to pick one activity that is And there's a couple of reasons. So, certainly cardiovascular exercise, it's and indisputably it has great effects on your has many of the same benefits as cardiovascular can get through aerobic training. And particularly dealing with muscle strength, like posture. So, aerobic exercise itself has very minimal development, on muscle hypertrophy, even on So, certainly running has certain benefits training does. And again, things like your posture, people and not doing anything, over time, you're to go. And you can do all the aerobic training you benefits. [Rhonda] So, you just mentioned two things posture, so, can you talk a little bit more bone density? [Brad] Yeah, sure. [Rhonda] Because that seems very relevant [Brad] It is. So, osteoporosis, which is basically porous your bones, if you are sedentary in particular, And the 80% of people with osteoporosis are start out with less bone mass and there's is osteoprotective. So, when women undergo menopause, postmenopausally, which is going to increase their chances of And resistance training, by pulling on the an interaction, your musculoskeletal system it's the muscle pulling on the bones to move. And strength training really is the primary So, while you're strengthening the muscles, as well. There's certain ways that are going to be process but really, no matter what type of loads, heavy loads, etc., you're going to And it's always, by the way, specific to the So, weight-bearing exercise in particular If you're doing cycling or even the elliptical to have substantial effects on bone development, Whereas, running, to some extent, there is to the femur, to your lower-body musculature, be a major area for osteoporosis, particularly Anyway, long story short is that resistance over time, has profound effects on staving building bones, particularly when you're younger. [Rhonda] You said there are certain types is there any types of exercises that you can [Brad] Yeah. So, most of the research has been using somewhat I'm not convinced though, I think it's an really looked at doing lighter-load training And I would surmise, if you are training with of effort, that you would achieve similar more multi-joint movements...so, multi-joint more than one joint, multi-joint is more than get better effects overall on bone because So, again, not really great evidence, this I've seen. So, again, I'm a fan of any type of resistance maximize bone development, I would certainly And I think, just in general, there's other [Rhonda] Besides the squats, what are some [Brad] Rows, presses...I mean, push-ups, you more than one joint. [Rhonda] For, like, someone that's working to go use a machine, can you do multi-joint [Brad] Yeah, shoulder press, so, I mean, chest Dumbbells are great, sure. Shoulder press, chest press. You can do squats, you can do a goblet squat, squat. So, yeah. [Rhonda] Well, that was very...I mean, I had didn't realize that it really does play a it's really good to know about that. Muscle mass in general, aging. I mean, what about someone who hasn't...let's athlete, like, throughout most of their, you into even just maybe perhaps older age? Is it ever too late to start resistance training prevent the atrophy that's going to happen? [Brad] Absolutely not. So, in my previous life, I was a personal and, I mean, literally I was involved in the And I had clients at the time that were 60s, huge benefits in relatively short periods We carried out a meta analysis on the oldest Well, 70s actually not that...it's the new But 70-plus-years-old and up octogenarians, muscle hypertrophy within 12-week, 8 to 12-week who've never done anything before. Now, I will say this with the caveat, it's The earlier you start, the better. Because, once you start losing, to get it So, you can always improve upon where you're get back to where you were when you're in if you're not starting till you're 70. However, if you start when you're in your mass. And certainly I would say this, someone who clients in their 70s who were stronger and you know, serious lifters. So, yeah, it's always best to start when you're And I will say this too, for women in particular it is very important to start early. Again, it's never too late because you can [Rhonda] How early? [Brad] I mean, as early as you can but certainly do build up a bone bank. I mean, the analogy I like to use is having Yeah, it's never too late to start, technically, is not going to be what it is if you start And there is this concept of a bone bank where, again, for women, who have the biggest issue the possibility of having osteoporosis. If you start when you've already lost bone You know, you can stave off, you can certainly getting back your bone density becomes much [Rhonda] So, it's very similar to this concept that's also, right, when you're... [Brad] Correct. [Rhonda] ...in, I don't know, 30s even maybe, And so, yes, like you said, starting with things are going to be taken away from it point. So, that's really great to know because, you know, and at least for myself in particular, up even, you know, throughout high school, endurance athletes. You walk into the gym and there was mostly wrestlers, the...you know, and so, I don't are starting to understand the importance mass and bone mass through resistance training If I'm doing my endurance then I'm checking I'm going to be healthier because of it. So, it's really so important I think for young young men who, like, want to get the muscle, as well in mind, but I think there's now a preventing osteoporosis as well. So, that's really great to know. What about starting, like, so, starting young? Like, you know, can you start, like, in childhood? [Brad] Absolutely. So, there's compelling research now that children...kind the child's maturity is such that they're I will say that always it should be done, children six, seven, eight-years-old, you Even beyond that, until they are, you know, But yeah, there's really compelling research only is not detrimental...so, I mean, I want I mean, there's been this myth around forever training early on, it will stunt your growth. Zero evidence. [Rhonda] I would think the opposite because [Brad] Yeah, growth hormone really does not the name is growth hormone, it's really not Well, it is on height... [Rhonda] Height, yeah, that's what I mean. [Brad] But growth hormone is pulsatile, and interesting, it's never been studied, but with resistance training are very specific But it was thought that you would injure the somehow stunt the growth. Anyway, zero evidence to that. The issues can be that, I want to emphasize, for that, yeah, they get injured. But I'll say this, to me, it's always this no issues with letting their children play getting injured, and potentially breaking are much much higher. Resistance training is one of the safest things So, yeah, with children, again, very young, been a good compelling research on this that I generally say you want to start off with And again, it's getting them into the feel And look, when you're dealing with children, So, if something is not fun, you're forcing work and you're going to have rebellion against to a point where they're kind of adverse to So, again, I think what's really important And it improves self-esteem, obviously, it these are all things that can help to stave have, makes them better athletes. So, from a parent standpoint, you can get to pursue, it can make them better in their improvements. [Rhonda] With respect to body composition, of resistance training on bone density, obviously, those things but, you know, back in the day, important as well, but that was kind of one like, why they should do resistance training. Can you talk, like, a little bit about body...like, body recomposition, can you gain muscle without Sort of things like that... [Brad] You know, great question. So, well, let's start from the basics that lean mass, which is largely muscle mass. I do think it's important to understand, like, a lot of the measures that you'll see, DEXA, analysis. They are looking at not necessarily muscle that, but when they talk about fat-free mass measure, they're combinations of in the very So, it's not necessarily just, if you're gaining outside of fat mass would be fat-free mass. And that, I think, is somewhat important to But, with that said, resistance training certainly help with fat mass. Now, I want to say, in general, and this goes is not the best way to lose body fat. It can help, it's certainly I think a good get to in a second, but you have to do a lot it's just much easier to do it through reducing So, for instance, if you do an hour of cardiovascular running for the most part, I mean, you can You know, you have a bag of potato chips, done. Whereas, if you focus on reducing the energy as an adjunct, it can certainly help with Not only in terms of increasing energy expenditure, an hour of exercise every day, for most people And that's just cardio. Like I said, you want to do resistance training And resistance training...cardio actually creating more energy expenditure, than resistance But here's the catch, it is, in my humble training at the very least with an energy promote weight loss. And here's why, if you do not lift weights, muscle as you're losing body fat. And depending upon how you're going about loss will come from muscle. So, you might lose, let's say, 70% fat, it and 30% coming from lean mass if you don't Now, you talked about recomp, resistance training mass often but you can actually recomp. Recomp means you can gain muscle while losing There are two primary factors, and I'll leave room is anabolic-steroid use. So, if you're taking anabolic steroids, yeah, But putting that aside, that's probably not here. The two primary factors are, number one, &quot;How So, the more weight you have to lose, the Also, how long have you been training? So, someone who has a lot of years of experience ceiling, will have a more difficult time recomping. Now, by the way, so, if you have a lot of out, you can do serious recomp, I see this Not only anecdotally have I seen this in clients our lab where I see this all the time, and You cannot, however, maximize muscle mass If your goal is to go into, let's say, a mass-gaining do this or strength athletes, and your goal at the very minimum going to need to be at need to be in a small surplus where you're amount of fat. [Rhonda] Okay. Boy, this is fantastic information, it's sinking So, if you are in a caloric deficit, and this world a little bit, if you are in a caloric talk about what the protein requirements are, protein intake, daily protein intake, to prevent muscle, basically, can you not lose the lean Let's say you're not doing resistance training you're doing aerobic but you're still in the [Brad] And not lifting weights? [Rhonda] You're not lifting weights. [Brad] So, the answer is it will help to preserve what, if you are not lifting weights, I mean, research, you will lose...well, I want to because if you're very obese where you just you can lose fat without losing muscle because body is going to pull from the fat storage, down into, you know, people who're just, quote muscle if you do not resistance train. Now, I want to point out though, even if you're protein, you're going to leach some muscle. So, you need to still take in sufficient protein. And there's actually evidence that you need people at maintenance or above to maintain you're in a caloric deficit. So, that actually increases protein needs, [Rhonda] And can you talk about, like, what [Brad] Yeah, sure. So, we start to get into generalizations. So, the general literature shows somewhere of protein is required for resistance-training So, RDA for sedentary individuals, is around You need roughly double that, you know, to resistance training. The upper confidence interval is about 2.2 So, meaning that, to really be on the safe For the vast majority of people, if you're make a difference, but if you're a bodybuilder, with them, it really does not hurt to take I mean, there's a lot of myths about kidney In healthy individuals, no good evidence that certainly on bone density. These are all unsupported, from my reading So, there's not necessarily a downside to is cost/benefit. For bodybuilders, I would say go up to 2 grams for those of us in the States, it's about But I would say that becomes even more important So, if you're at 1.6, if you're especially to be encompassed because the body isn't going When you start getting into a deficit, that's to be at that upper realm, 2.0, 2.2 grams [Rhonda] So, people that are...let's say people And I always say &quot;obese&quot; or &quot;overweight,&quot; two, based on what you just said, but, if and they're wanting to lose fat mass, right, based on their targeted weight? Because if they're like, you know, 300 pounds, protein, right? So... [Brad] Yeah, it's a great question, and the So, the protein needs have been based on men I want to say &quot;relatively,&quot; for the vast majority So, for guys somewhere like in the 12% to fat or so. So, if you are 300 pounds and you should be it at the weight that you would be where you a guy, 12% to 15% body fat. So, we can then regress to saying, &quot;Base it DEXA scans to determine their lean mass or getting body-fat caliper measurements. It's just not in the realm of what most people When you can make a general estimate, these know, people think that we're doing these these precise areas, they're generalized recommendations And there's going to be variations around that are...when we do research, we report averages. But people aren't an average, you get some and they average out here. So, yeah. So, if you're overweight/obese, you want to be at a relatively lean weight. You know, let's say, again, for a guy, 10-12-15% I will say this, it doesn't hurt to take in, On the good side, protein is very difficult than carbohydrates and fat, so, if you're what you'd want to err on the side of, you your goal is weight loss, at the expense of [Rhonda] Right. Now, we had Stuart Phillips on the podcast, with the protein requirements, like, the buy-in at least 1.2 grams of protein per kilogram And for me, I was like, &quot;Okay, because that's as I started to do more resistance training, wasn't meeting the 1.6. And so, I have to now increase...like, a can Like, I need about 16 to 20 more grams a day. So, you know, for people like my dad, for getting him to 1.6. I'm trying to get him to 1.2, right, I'm trying his amino acids from his muscle every day, So, he has to supplement and do the protein at least to get him there. Next step would be even 1.6, you know. And, of course, adding the resistance training, able to get to that point yet. So, I wanted to mention that with the protein like, I know the RDA is so low, 0.8. And Stuart talked a little bit about, like, were done to calculate that. And I'm just, like, wondering when is it time Because a lot of people think they're getting get the RDA. [Brad] So, to address that, two things I think So, 1.2 is better than 0.8, certainly, but, done work on this that, if you want to maximize you're not going to gain any muscle if you're that you're going to get, and especially when they're anabolically-resistant. So, it becomes even more important. And I think this is another important thing not only anabolic resistance to resistance aspects need to be higher, to some extent, of the essential amino acids. And there's, I don't know how deep you want leucine is the amino acid that seems to kick-start And it seems to be somewhat higher, at least older individuals, getting more leucine is As you point out though, unfairly, for older to get protein in. And I'm a big fan of whole foods, like, supplementation whole foods in, but, as you get older, taste have good taste, so, older individuals have And that is where supplementation can come or casein or egg-protein shake and get that not meeting your daily requirements. And for anyone. I mean, it seems that women often also are And yeah, it's just very easy to do it through to do it through whole foods. [Rhonda] What's the leucine thresh...in terms the vegan, vegetarian, because it's a whole poultry, fish, if you're getting the essential you say would be important for crossing that [Brad] Yeah. So, these aren't, again, hard cutoffs in either I've seen 3 grams, where it starts to increase Where is that cut off from being, quote unquote, There isn't one. And I certainly don't think you need to take a high-quality protein source, you know, you're Which, by the way, aren't just meat, they're So, proteins from, I should say, animal-based You're going to be getting quality proteins And again, it's just getting the proper dosages, a recent study out of Luc van Loon's lab, and they looked at...again, my memory now, but they did 0, 15 grams of protein, I believe But anyway, it showed a dose-response relationship getting a greater response. Now, the curve, it wasn't a linear relationship, it started to trail off after 30 grams, but So, it just shows that in older individuals to hit that leucine threshold, particularly [Rhonda] I mean, yeah, that's talking about products. But then you're also probably going to have mean, I guess unless you can eat large large But for me I know, as a female too, I'm often... [Brad] I mean, 4 ounces of chicken is 30 grams [Rhonda] Is it though? [Brad] Yeah. I mean, you know, if you got... [Rhonda] I eat 4 ounces of chicken, yeah. Pretty good. With respect to what we were talking about muscle mass and how, you know, you have to but it seems as though you're not going to deficit, if you're the person that is actively you know, I guess aspects. But what about, you know...so, like, something I like to eat all my food within a like 10-hour You know, I don't go too crazy but, you know, And, you know, when you're not digesting and you're in repair mode. The problem that a lot of people make with order to eat within this 10-hour window I Right? So, they skip meals, which ends up being caloric eating. And so, what I do is not skip meals, I do you know, there's some circumstantial thing or whatever, right, but if I'm getting all so, it's a intermittent fasting but not being calories that I would get if I was eating And then adding in resistance training, making Is that going to be conducive with gaining [Brad] Yeah, absolutely. So, I mean, we actually are starting to get Now time-restrictive feeding, it's interesting in review with my colleague Alan Aragon, who's exact topic. The interesting thing with time-restrictive of it. So, there's 4/20, so, we have 4 hours eating There's 6/18, there's 8/16, so, there's all Then there's also the 2/5 concept where you So, a lot of that will depend upon the specific You're talking about a 10-hour window, it's But it's interesting because, conceivably, benefits, and there's been some research, up, that you get better utilization of protein three meals relatively spaced. Like, breakfast, lunch, and dinner, and perhaps But now, again, so, this is where the nuances recommend trying to take in protein across Because when you're not eating, you're catabolic. Eating is anabolic. So, not eating is catabolic. But the studies on time-restrictive feeding Now, our measures that we have, our current MRI, which is the gold standard, still has at a cadaver and you're actually, you know, where you actually can weigh the muscle, etc. So, our measures might not be sensitive enough vast majority of people, when you're not looking of a difference. If you're going to do a 4/20, I would say there's been research, one study certainly a 4/20 versus a traditional eating pattern. I could see where a 2/5 might have issues. So, again, I would say, whatever you do, try window that you have. Because, and there's actually been quite a highly anabolic for at least 24 hours, if But when you start getting outside of, you to trail off where you might not harvest some for. You know, especially if your goals are more So, I would say it's beneficial to try to it is. If you're going to be, let's say, in a 10-hour of that eating so that you're going to be say, not do it right after your final meal [Rhonda] Okay. So, with the anabolic window, is there some... [Brad] It's really a barn door. Yeah, we've done a ton of research on this. So, certainly there is somewhat of a window. And even in the paper we published, which not what our research showed but it showed The much more important thing is getting your And that's where, kind of to your point, if whatever your window is, if you're doing, a 8/16, which is the most common time-restricted per kilogram, you're pretty good, you're going Then it starts to come down, you kind of mentioned kind of, like, the...now you're starting to if you want to eke out the maximum amount And really it's, like I said, more of a barn And I think what we've debunked is that, after my shake immediately after training or I go bodybuilder, I don't think there's utility...the But I do say, when I'm coaching bodybuilders, as you can after a workout.&quot; You don't have to stress and slam your shake this is where even small amounts of gains losing a competition. So, again, it's highly context-specific. We try to make these general guidelines and own, you know, goals their own lifestyle that and that needs to be taken into account. [Rhonda] If you are working out at home, let's bodybuilder, you're a recreational...you know, doing it at home but you're a recreational shake right after your workout because you're have to think about packing it and all this, [Brad] Not going to hurt. And, like, even if it helps a tiny bit, yeah, there is really no cost and a potential very Now, again, if you start going longer and and, again, if you're doing a, let's say, meal and then go 14 hours, then you can start So, there's no hard rule to this, it's on can get it in, conceivably, the better. There's just no downside. [Rhonda] You mentioned the aging study where at, I guess, on a, you know, per-meal effect protein synthesis...like, you know, like, 40 or 50 grams of protein without supplementing You know, maybe there's, you know, some people and all the older folks, you know. For the majority, I think, those types of protein per meal. Should they try to at least get 40 grams in Or is 30 enough? I mean, so, is 40 better than 30 for these even think about or is it, like, just the kind of thing, you know? [Brad] So, yeah, great question. So, one of the things I think that needs to So, what I mean by that is that they're taking of principle, so, they take them fasted, they're giving them, let's say, a whey-protein shake. Whey is a very fast-acting protein that gets system, the body gets to use the amino acids the amino acids are released in a much more Because the body has to digest the food, break absorption. So, again, you're eating, let's say, chicken eating a whole meal, there's time-delayed So, that's why I said the most important thing, percentage because I'm just [inaudible 00:43:44] is worrying about getting your total daily Stressing over this, you know, minutia of is taking in 1.6 grams, they're going to be compromising their gains unless they're looking show. [Rhonda] Okay. Well, that's good to know, I mean, for the Shifting a little bit into mechanics and, big one. I mean, for the longest time, you know, I big or go home,&quot; or something like that. I mean, you're like, you know... [Brad] &quot;Go heavy or go home.&quot; [Rhonda] Yeah, that's it. Like, what does the science say about that? Like, you know, you've really contributed heavy to get your gains?&quot; [Brad] So, this is an area that I've done on so many things, you know, that I had learned were treated as dogma, you know, in textbooks, and nothing can be characterized more so than So, I had always thought that, if you're doing glorified cardio and that, you know, it's gain muscle. The literature has now compellingly shown, lab has done quite a bit of research, as well gain muscle, similar amounts of muscle regardless spectrums, up to 30 to even 40 repetitions, And that's at the whole muscle level. Now, there may be, I want to really emphasize, muscle-fiber type-specific benefits to doing for heavy loads. If you're asking my confidence in that literature, rule out that that would be the case. But when you're looking, let's say, at MRI it really shows no difference. And I'll tell you what I think is a quite had published a study, circa 2012, and he time, and it was on untrained subjects doing And it showed that there was no difference 1RM, which is like 30 reps, versus 80% 1RM, And I remember it as clear as day saying, doing leg extensions,they get jacked from quote. And I said, &quot;I'm going to do this study in going to be no question the older individuals those highest threshold motor units, the type-2 And lo and behold, I carried out that study, It was really [inaudible 00:47:14]. And since then there's just been so much evidence, untrained, trained, older, younger, men, women, studied. And it really is a beautiful thing because to carry out resistance training. And it's particularly I think beneficial for So, if you're training through injuries, you And also particularly for the older individuals as people get older, they get osteoarthritis loading can be very uncomfortable for them So, it's kind of contraindicated. And they can use lighter loads. Now, the caveat to this is is that the lighter of effort. So they have to really...if you do not extensively few reps are difficult to complete, you're So, when I talk about light loads, it's not just, you know, doing some lifting, &quot;Okay, So, when you lift heavier, just innately you're because the weight is already heavy. With lighter loads, the first number of repetitions to complete, you're really not doing much And this goes back to a survival mechanism. So, I think this is important, because the is survival. The reason that the body adapts to anything And if you are not challenging it in a way it has no impetus to adapt. So, the reason that you will get these adaptations endurance, bone density, etc., is because are being challenged beyond their present [Rhonda] And so, as you get stronger, then more. So, the big take home for lifting lighter, right? [Brad] That's correct. [Rhonda] ...when you're doing it, and so, Which I enjoy doing. I've done both and I do find, for me, I like doing heavier and fewer reps. And I also notice I'm less likely to injure things like proper form and all that, maybe But you mentioned the muscle type 1 and type that lifting a little heavier might help shift Can you talk just for a moment, like, what should people aim to kind of gain both of Or are there distinct differences, you know, [Brad] Yeah, yeah. So, great questions. So, I'll tackle the second question first. Yes, aging is mostly specific...so, when I is the age-related loss of muscle is most strength-related fibers. So, just to kind of even circle back for those fibers, they do not produce force as well they can go on for longer periods of time, Whereas your type-2 fibers fatigue relatively greater force. As you age, the type-1 fibers are more well even what's called apoptosis, which has been But certainly there's a diminishment where It's more specific, the sarcopenic effect Which is, obviously, problematic because the functional capacity, at least from being able falls, etc. Circling back, so, then the training effect, regardless of heavy/light, you're going to So, we're talking now nuance. So, I think this is where this kind of gets have the, if it is in fact true, greatest who want to maximize their muscle development, heavier training and some lighter training of hedging your bets and make sure that you're For the average individual, if you are training going to be getting type-1 and type-2 fiber And it's been well documented that light load Which was one of the myths, it used to be scientist, that, if you just use light loads, motor units, which are associated with these your strength and power and hypertrophy. [Rhonda] So, we were talking about the resistance and then there's power training. And I think this probably has a little bit problem with aging, right? And so, can you just briefly talk about the shine more than the other with respect to, or focusing on? Or is it, like, you know, women versus men, [Brad] So, the definitions do somewhat vary, I'll give you mine. So, resistance training is kind of a catch-all resistance. This would be body-weight exercise, push-ups, exercise, free weights, machines, cables, exercise. Strength training often is used synonymously thought of specific to, let's say, power lifting when you're lifting heavy loads, you're moving a very heavy load to lift, you can't move whatever you're doing, you'd be able to do Whereas power is the ability to produce force The more rapidly you can produce force, the Power is developed on a foundation of strength And there is evidence that at least some training so, moving weights quickly or, when I say maximal power. And our group was involved recently in a meta-analysis improvements were optimized when they did action quickly and then doing a controlled So, I do think it's important for older individuals programs. It doesn't mean that every set needs to be of the training that will be devoted towards And I think it's really exemplified by the fall, and it's a frequent thing now, particularly to quickly reverse their fall and avoid, you And studies show that older individuals, when since I've looked at the literature, I think die within I think two years, half of them constant care, they're not able to be functionally So, I mean, it's a big thing. You know, whereas the younger individuals, or whatever, and it's not a big deal. But older individuals, these are really important, And I would say that having some power training, is another thing I think is really important, way, not that way,&quot; or, you know, there's should train,&quot; we should be thinking of training goal. Because often, doing some lighter-load training sometimes that's not possible but sometimes power training with heavier-load training things that, ultimately, can optimize the [Rhonda] Thinking about the power training, be easier if I had lighter weights. I mean, is that still considered power training with a heavier... [Brad] No, no, no. So, again, you're not going to be able to So, let's say you're doing what's called a lift three times. Let's say I'm doing a bench press with a 3RM. Even on my first rep, if I try to move it if I could, I'd be able to do more than three So, you're going to have to choose a weight Let's say, you're able to do a minimum of So, again, light exists on a spectrum. 8 is lighter than 3, 3 reps is heavier than 15 reps...so, at what point is, you know, There's no research that indicates that at But I'd say you'd have to go a minimum of If you could do more, if you could do a heavier it quickly enough to get that benefit. And by the way, there's other things you could You can do plyometric training. Now, for some older people, that can be somewhat But, I mean, you can throw a medicine ball, So, take a medicine ball, and, you know, older these are good upper-body movements that would are older. It can be fun, which, again, I do see kind our adulthood and then aging, we're making for older people. [Rhonda] So, you mentioned, with the lifting of, basically, fatiguing yourself, right, know, compare that to lifting heavier and [Brad] Yeah. [Rhonda] This whole idea of training till to train to failure? Is that important? [Brad] Yeah. So, failure, an operational definition would with proper form. And we carried out a meta-analysis recently and that's kind of the &quot;go hard or go home &quot;go hard or go home,&quot; every set needs to be The evidence does not indicate that's the So, certainly, you need to train with a high set to failure...not only is it not...doesn't showed a small detriment for strength. So, with strength, stopping, you know, a couple effects on maximizing strength than training Again, there's some limitations to that research, to failure, you won't maximize your strength, that is what our results showed. I also would not dismiss the fact that for to your genetic ceiling, that it might make of the sets, more relevant, beneficial, we on my end. But I can see at least the logical rationale a way that it is not used to. I will tell you that, when I coach bodybuilders, But another area where my view was shifted I used to be the go-hard-go-home dude who, and now most sets within 2 to 3 reps of failure. So, there's a concept called &quot;the repetitions in reserve. An RIR of zero means you're at failure, means zero reps left before you got a failure. An RIR of one would mean that you could've be at failure. From the literature, although we don't have on this, but my own interpretation of the to three rep RIR, reps from failure, would You can still see adaptations, particularly early stages, below that but one to three, that's necessary to see adaptations. Again, then you start getting into the weeds, For the gen pop, I probably would say that's never have to go to failure, for the goals For bodybuilders, high-level athletes, perhaps on some of your exercises at least. And again, if you want to get into the weeds, exercises would be more appropriate for failure, raise, a leg extension. First of all, there's less issue of injury say, on a squat, if you've ever squatted, push out, there's a greater potential for Certainly, you're going to need a spotter and you can have problems. Or a bench press where you're trying to do bar is stuck to your chest. Whereas, if you're doing, let's say, dumbbell you're not going to be really torched after back strong. So, these are just general...speculative on behind these things. And I do want to say that an evidence-based hobby horse in life is to promote the importance It is not simply deferring to research, research virtually never, it's going to provide general like exercise and nutrition. It will get you into the ballpark, it'll give You then need to take this to the individual. What are their genetics? What is their lifestyle? Their stress level? Their sleep? Their nutritional status? All of these things together. And then, of course, goals are going to enter So, developing a program from the research to use your own expertise in combination with [Rhonda] Right. With the designing the training program sort talking about this and, you know, training clear for me, like, you know, maybe the bodybuilders, most people getting within one to three reps a lot of questions about, &quot;How many reps do How many reps do I need to do?&quot; it sounds like it depends on the person. And when you start to feel that fatigue when Like, so, that's kind of what I'm thinking [Brad] Correct. [Rhonda] Resting between those reps, or between [Brad] Between sets. [Rhonda] It's between the sets. So, yeah. So, basically, when you're getting ready to need to do or how long do you have to rest [Brad] Yeah. So, again, it's on a spectrum and it depends ask me questions and I say, you know, &quot;Pretty ask me I will answer with 'it depends.'&quot; Because within broad spectrums, if you're gains. So, if you're saying, &quot;Is it important?&quot; it starts to become more and more important your results. If your goal is just to build some muscle, I mean, training an hour a week, let's say, give most people very nice results, provided If you're looking to be a bodybuilder, are No, I would say with 100% confidence that your gains. So, volume has been shown to be a driver of Again, we've done original research on this, there is a dose-response relationship up to It is individual-specific as well. So, some people respond better or respond Some people need more volume to maximize their It's hard to study individual responses but glean from the literature. But I would say, as a general guideline, to between 10 to 20 sets per muscle per week. Now, that's not going to be able to be done we recently published a review paper called it's open-access, you can maybe post on this of the study. But we basically kind of looked at what is And that was roughly around four sets per two, maximum, you know, three half-hour sessions, You can get very nice results and, I think, of gains in that period of time. And then, if you want more, you're going to [Rhonda] Are there certain strategies that powerlifting. Are there certain things that can be done as much time as well? I mean, certain types of exercises... [Brad] Yeah. So, a couple things. Number one...or several. First of all, training with lighter loads, does extend the time of the workout. So, if you're training, let's say, with 30 of time if you're training with 10 reps. So, that, if you're very time-pressed, can Now, how much that, depending upon how many training, it's probably not adding that much If you're doing a lot of volume, it can be But using multi-joint exercises...so, again, Presses, rows, squats, deadlifts, push-ups, multiple muscle groups, a lot of stabilizer They're much more time-efficient than doing, So, when you're doing, let's say, a lat pulldown effectively, you're performing elbow flexion portion of your pecs even are working, and Squats involve many muscle groups, so, really in your torso. So, I would say focus more on your multi-joint And then you can use various time-efficient methods, such as a superset, which is doing And there's different ways to structure these do agonist/antagonist movements such as...so, muscles, meaning that, when one is contracting, per se. See, if you do a biceps curl, you can immediately you're working the muscles in different fashion. You don't have to rest between the sets. You could do a leg exercise, so, lower-body Again, you're working different muscle groups to take the rest. If you're going to do, let's say, sets of traditional way of doing sets is you do a the same muscle group, you rest, that's going have to rest between those sets. There is something called drop sets where close to failure, then you drop the weight...well, of load. So, for instance, let's say you have a rack for curls. You can then, when you finish, you're getting go to the 15-pound dumbbells and you do more able to do more weights. You can do triple drops. So, you go from 20 to 15 to 10 to 5 even and do any more sets. So, rather than doing multiple sets, you just Now, is that as effective as doing multiple We don't have enough evidence to show but say, for the gen pop, it will be just...or I don't think for the majority of the populations Again, for the high-level athlete/bodybuilder, is important. [Rhonda] This idea of resting, this is great work out, which is far from bodybuilder level, switch to the next thing. And then I'll eventually go back to that first So, like, I'll have, you know, like three lighter and faster. And then, so, if you are doing a set, like, set? Is it, like, something to do with, like, muscle [Brad] Well, I mean, let's say you're going You have to rest because, if you're training the weight, let's say, in 2 seconds, by default, to be able to do any more reps or else then So, you have to have some degree of rest. Now, if you're resting very short periods, of load that you're going to be able to do the same load. And this is actually interesting. So, it had always been promoted, this is another but it had been promoted that resting shorter So, what I've been taught, when I was an up-and-coming if you want strength, you take long rest, hypertrophy it's like 30 seconds to a minute So, in between sets, or depending on the type rest intervals will promote greater growth after the workout is over. And that used to be thought to be a main driver now shows that, if it does have an effect, have any effect at all. So, certainly it would not be something that account. And the issue is is that volume load, the given session, which is the amount of work So, let's say I'm doing a set of squats with And then I rest 30 seconds between...I'll Let's say I try to use that same 200 pounds, And based on the literature that we have, Whereas, if I would rest 2 minutes, I'd be And if I rested three, even more. And that's why it's actually been shown that you're doing a certain number of sets and hypertrophy. So, it actually has a negative effect, giving very least, the volume load is more important [Rhonda] Which makes sense. I mean, you know, and we talked about this the hormonal effects, at least, you know, from resistance training, not taking exogenous on muscle protein synthesis. But, and Stu was mentioning this, with growth And so, then a question I, of course, had for preventing injury because you're getting mean, I don't know [inaudible 01:16:16]. [Brad] No, we don't know but I would say, hormone because it's pulsatile, so, it's secreted your greatest growth-hormone release. Your guess is as good as mine because, like be skeptical that that brief spike in growth tendon synthesis, let's say, to where it would But without knowing, it could. So, I wouldn't dismiss it, we would need research [Rhonda] With respect, and I think you kind to make sure, with designing this program, women then really be focusing more on the of the effects on the bone mineral density? Or, I guess, all of us should be focusing [Brad] Yeah, women really should not train The one area that there seems to be some evidence more quickly, both inter-set...so, they can most of the volume load, like I said. It's not clear whether this has something it's the fact of just, in general, using lighter come back if you're using 200 pounds versus We don't know. And even their recovery between sessions may There's some evidence of that. But as far as the overall program, I don't than men. [Rhonda] For recovery, you hear a lot about does that mean? What does that mean? [Brad] Well, it means that you need to take back strong for your...and it means a lot But I think, in the context of our talk, that and joint-related reserves where you're able that your training is not compromised the To some extent, it also has to do with the roughly the time course...it's about 48 hours, more advanced, you seem to get a higher spike. So, it happens quicker and actually trails which is I think getting a little too much But theoretically, you probably wouldn't need to give it 48-hours rest so that you can maximize recover. Or it certainly doesn't seem to be beneficial and having that recovery allows you to do your body and/or your health to a greater [Rhonda] Does it blunt hypertrophy if you're [Brad] No, so, there's actually some interesting...it's You could tell I've done a lot of work on So, we carried out a study, these were young We don't have any evidence in older people, recovery seems to be blunted in older, but men we had them doing either the same exact when they did it over three days, they performed So, like, each session was twice as long, over six days, the same exact routine. And no difference for most of the muscles, growth was much greater in the group that Is that an anomaly? Again, we don't know, you'd need to replicate Now, as I just mentioned, older individuals' And this is just, look, ageing. Certainly, you can stave off aging but you So, to a large extent, we can live extremely provided we take care of our bodies and do But father time, mother time, we'll catch this into account their programming. So, like I said, no differences between men between younger and older individuals. And one of them, when I have consulted with as much volume, so, the ability to tolerate And by the way, interestingly, it seems their volume, so, they can't use high volumes but volume to maintain their mass. There's limited evidence of that but there indicate that. And also having more cognizance of inter-session per week. [Rhonda] How much recovery would the older [Brad] So, again, this really depends on the like I mentioned, can wipe the floor with So, these are things that it really will depend training? Were you just new, when you were 60-years-old, you were 20? You know, do you have joint-related issues? What's your nutritional status? What's your sleep and stress status? Are there any other medical issues? So, a lot to unpack. And on a general level, I think kind of three mentioned that two days a week people can days a week would get you a little better And if possible, even, on a minimalist basis, week, I think that's a good kind of minimalist And then, you know, some older individuals where they can do, let's say, Monday-Tuesday, and recover well. Whereas others need that, you know, &quot;Shouldn't [Rhonda] All right. Is there anything that can speed up recovery? So, recovery being passive recovery, active it up nutrition-wise or other things as well. [Brad] Yeah. First of all, being recreationally-active, One of the worst things you could do is just So, let's say you do a resistance-training sitting on the couch, you know, munching on The circulation itself is going to optimize and recovery in that respect. Other things have somewhat less evidence behind So, massage has been shown to potentially What's the problem with that? Well, it's hard to sham massages. So, when your massage feels really good and, Is that because of the massage or because &quot;I feel better now, I feel vibrant.&quot; Foam rolling, you know, these are all things a sense, &quot;Was it really the treatment or was Because you always want a placebo, if you're it felt good, so, I feel I have better recovery.&quot; You know, taking in proper protein itself, just should be part of your lifestyle, if But if you're not taking in enough protein, and of any tissues, so, you're not going to not optimizing your protein nutritional intake. And then there's other, I mean, essential fatty acids seem to have certain beneficial it seems for the older people. But we don't have great evidence longitudinal, to show that... Anyway, so, these are all, I think, strategies... Again, cost-benefit. Well, massage, if you're paying for it, doesn't other that can massage you, [inaudible 01:25:56] There is some evidence that cold-water immersion, quote unquote, &quot;recovery&quot; so that you're not So, if the recovery has to do with getting reducing soreness...and heat, by the way, seem to have negative effects at least. So, again, those are potential strategies. Now, if you want to get into...it's kind of particularly it's been shown with the cold-water it actually has negative effects, particularly well. Somewhat limited evidence, but it's been shown that we have acute data that shows it blunts blunts muscle protein synthesis, satellite When you talk about anabolic signaling, the is why, quote unquote, it helps with recovery has been shown to have a positive effect on So, chronic inflammation bad, acute inflammation At least that's the extent of what we see And there's been longitudinal evidence showing studies. Now, that is when these studies have been post-training. I would say that, if you're only going to sore, nothing wrong with getting in a cold It doesn't mean all your gains are going to but I do think that using it frequently, probably, not a good thing. Timing might be a concern. So, if you want to do that, probably spacing But then you might not get the benefit you Like, if you're sore, you're going to want So, if you're sore the following day, yeah, kind of gotten out of your window, or at least responses in. But again, the primary reasons that cold-water number one, blunting of the pro-inflammatory response, that cold water restricts the circulation to the muscles. It's speculative but that's the work in theory. [Rhonda] Right, so, that would make sense your training? [Brad] Yeah. [Rhonda] Like, I like to do cold-water immersion you get norepinephrine release and it affects But I don't ever do it after strength training, training. So, the other thing would be...you mentioned But should you be sore? Like, should you train to be sore? Does that play a role in hypertrophy? And then, you know, like, do you get more of? I mean... [Brad] Yeah. So, another interesting question, soreness, And interestingly, women seem not to have There's been some speculation it might have other effects as well. But, so, it's an interesting question. Soreness generally is due to a novel response And usually it's primarily due to the eccentric And that, by the way, can also be done through, form of aerobic training. But let's just focus on the resistance-training is a lowering...basically, lengthening, muscles And even concentric exercise can cause soreness it seems to be also more specific to, so, or extracellular matrix. Again, these aren't necessarily clear, so, it's speculative that that might have greater are exposed to free nerve endings and there's So, there's a whole theory behind this. Do you need to be sore to make gains? No, I think that's pretty clear. But could being sore potentially be indicative gains? It's not clear but a novel response, again, It adapts because it is being challenged beyond A novel response would generally indicate and, thus, having some degree of soreness beyond its present state. But again, some people, it's genetically influenced, people are very responsive to soreness regardless. There does seem to be a repeated bout effect over and over again, the body adapts and gets But some people keep doing the same thing Where soreness is an issue... So, if you are mildly sore, I think it's probably It certainly shouldn't be a negative. If you're not sore, I don't think you should But, on the opposite, if you are very sore, impair your ability to train again hard. And that would be an issue. [Rhonda] Are there things people can do to blunt their hypertrophy or, I mean, maybe, that you know about, any evidence-based things [Brad] Improve their response to soreness? [Rhonda] Yeah, so that they're maybe not as [Brad] Well, I mean, could you? Yeah, you can not focus on the eccentric component, not only is the eccentric component as important, and concentric exercise where the intracellular somewhat different than that of concentric, of the hypertrophic response. There is also evidence that muscles develop So, there's interesting research that, like, than others, and eccentric exercise seems muscle, whereas concentric seems to work more And, thus, combining them again would be beneficial. So, it doesn't seem to be...although, yes, by not, you know, focusing on your concentric, By the way, I don't know if they're still I don't know if you've heard of them, but concentric exercise because the whole thing that the soreness would scare them away and on the concentric portion. But again, if your goal is to optimize gains, So, look, you can do warm-water baths seem active recovery, just walking around. And if it's for upper body, doing certain you can do the elliptical that has the arm Just to get blood flow to the area would help And the other thing I would say, if that's and over. Now, again, one of the benefits...exercise thing if you want to optimize gains. And that's, again, promoting a novel response to optimizing results. And that would, again, have to do with the with the caveat that there'll be some soreness. [Rhonda] Right. So, two things that come to mind. One is aerobic exercise, you're talking about was wanting to talk to you about was the combination and the effects on muscle hypertrophy, combining you do strength training one day and then kind of a little bit it seems like what you're with recovery or soreness. But also, what if you do it on the same day, [Brad] Yeah, so, there's been a lot of talk there was something called the chronic interference shown in animal models, in rodent models where exercise upregulated your catabolic pathways, Again, I don't want to get too technical here actually blunts the mTOR pathway, which is Alternatively, your resistance, your anaerobic if you did aerobic training, it would blunt And that actually has been shown to be at Now, at some point, there will seem to be point is a lot further along than what we And I think that more has to do with the overtraining effect, so, it's not clear. But we have some pretty good meta-analytic volumes of training, there does not seem to that's even when it's performed in the same There was some evidence that perhaps, even was a negative effect on fiber type-specific, Again, I think it's a little premature to But what I would say is I think the general literature that we have, like you said, if doing resistance training Monday, Wednesday, training, do your aerobic training on your If not, possibly do a morning afternoon-type resistance training in the morning, cardio And at worst, if you have to do them in the first because, if nothing else, the aerobic to do the strength training, it can compromise So, that in itself would have a negative effect, on your results. I do also want to point out that this is, So, how much resistance training are you doing, So, particularly with the aerobic training, Are you doing six days a week of marathon Yeah, that's going to certainly start to have If you're walking 10,000 steps a day, 12,000 have any negative effect. If you're doing three high-intensity interval that's going to have a negative effects. So, there's a spectrum on these things. These are not yes-or-no questions that I can basis, you need to I think, at the very least, And that's, to me, one of the most important to really start to be in tune with your body. If you feel you need extra time off, you're And I think a lot of times people are just just, &quot;I have to do this, I have to do this.&quot; And try to be intuitive, use your intuition. And, you know, if you think you need a day If you think you need two days off... Deload periods, when done properly, can be reduced training frequency, particularly if If you're doing the typical type of workout need a deload because you're not training But certainly, if you're very serious exercisers, interspersing regimented periods of reduced are very important. [Rhonda] How do people that are endurance or whatever, do that? I mean, like, can they still incorporate their extensive endurance-training program without Is it even... [Brad] Yeah, yeah. So, one thing I would say for endurance...so, wide spectrum. But let's take your typical runner. So, when we're talking endurance, cross-country, long-distance, cross-country, weight is an So, you want to train in a more minimalist tend to put on muscle mass. You want to try, as an endurance-based athlete, strength development. And that would be using heavier loads. So, that's what you don't want to do, your You'd want to focus more on your, let's say, So, the volume will be insufficient to substantially So, volume is a driver of hypertrophy. And if you're doing low-volume training with not going to gain much weight in terms of benefits that will help you optimize your [Rhonda] That makes sense. What about stretching? That's something, you know...I see people before a set, they're stretching in between What role does stretching play, I mean, in or injury or anything? Flexibility, anything. [Brad] Yeah. So, I'll approach it from different levels, of stretching from a flexibility standpoint. Do people need to stretch? If you need more flexibility then it would Stretching for the sake...or I should say gaining flexibility is misguided because increased So, if you can do what you need to do from from a mobility and flexibility stuff, no If you are, let's say, a punter in football, leg very high, or a rockette in the Radio want to do, if they're not able to do it, of flexibility training. But for the majority of people that's not So, everyone has to assess their own flexibility With that said, resistance training itself And there's been studies that show that, compared doing resistance training protocols, provided of motion. So, if you are lifting weights, total body, benefits to static stretching. Combining them is even better if you want So, if you don't think you've gotten enough and you need more from an ADL-activities daily-living Now, I'll approached this also from a muscle interesting. I'm collaborating with a group from Germany recently come out showing that, long-term, but they did an hour a day using a stretching growth in the calf muscles and the muscle Really interesting. Now, I don't know who wants to use a stretching stretching...I mean, there is tension during is a mechanism of hypertrophy. So, doing long-duration stretching...and these out of 10 on the discomfort scale, so, not So, it's not like, &quot;I'm stretching,&quot; you know, So, it does show that stretching itself can We recently published a study, and there was that what's called inter-set stretch, loaded We used it in a calf exercise. So, basically, subjects did calf raises, what's and soleus, which are the two calf muscles. And this was actually within subject design between the sets, they did their calf raise The other group, the other leg they would set, they would descend into a stretch with So, basically, it was a loaded stretch. And that's intense. I mean, you know, they were kind of hurting endure towards the end of the stretch. And they did it for 20 seconds and then they And we found somewhat greater growth in the substantial difference, in the gastrocnemius. Now, interestingly, the soleus is a type-1-dominant-fiber fibers. So, it kind of raises the possibility is the that we do, are more specific to type-1 fibers Not sure. [Rhonda] All this talk makes me think about And, I mean, yoga, I mean, it's stretching you're holding a pose and your muscles stretch. Like, what are your thoughts on yoga? Do you think you could extrapolate a little [Brad] Yeah. So, now, again, I'm not a yoga specialist different forms of yoga, some have more, quote You certainly can gain muscle from yoga but No, because again, as a general rule, at least of yoga, you're really not challenging over a newbie, that's where you're going to see the muscle sufficiently to need to adapt. So, you will plateau rather quickly and you'll So, you can get some gains at the beginning. Can there be ways that you might adapt or I would guess but I'm not familiar enough [Rhonda] So, maybe yoga shouldn't be used to would be nice... [Brad] That would be correct. If you want to optimize...again, resistance All of these other things are potentially time in the world, do them all, to the extent, to the extent that you don't overtrain within you can only do one, my objective, a somewhat irreplaceable. [Rhonda] Yeah, there were some people that &quot;Oh, can yoga be considered resistance training?&quot; and I was thinking about it, like, &quot;Oh, no, Because, you know, I could, in my head, come So, that is good to know. One thing I want to talk to you about, I know something that I know you've talked about talk about. In fact, I think Joe Rogan was the first guy and I was like...you might just see my face restriction. What is it? You know, are there benefits, drawbacks to Like, what... [Brad] Yeah. So again, another topic that I've carried So, we talked about light-load training. Blood-flow restriction training uses a cuff. And it's used proximally in the muscle, meaning looking to train. The caveat is, number one, you can only use much really your chest or your back or your But let's take your biceps, for instance. You would cuff up by the deltoid, the deltoid a cuff here, and then you do, let's say, biceps same thing, the cuff in the same place. With the legs, you would cuff at the groin thigh, and do, let's say, leg extensions or And generally, you do this with very light They've tried it with heavier loads but it Even very light, 20% to 30% 1RM. But when you're using these very light loads, just did the light load without the cuff. So, let's say, if you're using 30% 1RM, your second set you're down to 20, and then 15. And usually, the rest intervals are rather Good evidence that it promotes similar muscle training, regardless of the rep range. Strength is similar to light-load training is not going to be...it's good for hypertrophy is always going to happen. Heavier loads are going to be better for strength, But you still will get...this, again, has no strength, you just don't get quite as much But you can substantially improve your strength Now, the thing is is it better than light-load Well, light-load training, I should've mentioned fun for a lot of people because you get metabolic Again, you have to train hard and you get And when you're doing it over 30 repetitions, a 90-second set. Let's see...70, 80, 90 seconds is a long period quote unquote. Whereas, if you're doing, let's say, a leg restriction, you're cutting the time, you're you're not putting as much joint stress on, thus, somewhat reducing the discomfort. Is it necessarily better, from a result standpoint, There's been no evidence that we've had, certainly But there is some hypotheticals...I can make factor is a substance that is thought to increase response. So, there are some logical rationales but it's better. And like I said, the limitation to it is the the extremities. There are some potential...I want to at least to be safe but...and people that have blood-pressure might not be potential issues. And the other thing that I want to point out controlled environments with researchers that You get people, they just, like, put a cuff you can really do some damage if you're not So, you have to be cognizant of how to go [Rhonda] I was going to ask you about that, here?&quot; Like, I always think of a tourniquet with [Brad] Well, so, in research settings, there are used that we can monitor the pressure People just use, like, bandana ties and they of 1 to 10 and saying, &quot;You should be at a But a lot of times people don't gauge their, they're the seven and their arm's turning So, you got to be careful. [Rhonda] Yeah. Well, this has been a really enlightening I really, really, really appreciate it. I'd love to ask you before we go about your I mean, you're a busy, busy guy, you're a papers, you're an educator, and you're also, Like, how do you find time and what does your like? [Brad] Sure. So, for me, exercise is like brushing your It's not really fun for me anymore because but my routine is much more streamlined from Number one, just time factors. I'm not looking...I was a former bodybuilder much different than I'm doing now. And as I've gotten older, the recovery issues So, I'm on a four-day-a-week resistance-training I do, basically, one off, two on. So, two on, then I take a rest and I train days off. I do an upper/lower split. My workouts last 45 minutes to an hour, so, I train quite hard when I do train, well, one to two reps of failure. And sometimes I do a set to all out failure. And I do, again, lower one day, upper the And I do look every day to get substantial So, I target 12,000 steps a day, aerobic...when step count, which is for overall health. And again, my focus, at this point, is making most paramount to me. And, you know, still looking good is an issue point, and thus, again, it's goal-specific So, I'm so busy, as you pointed out, with that getting the workouts... And when I travel, by the way, even now, coming to get...maybe I'll get one day where I usually more difficult when I'm away. And those are kind of structured deloads for [Rhonda] What about your protein intake? Is that like a... [Brad] I'm at 1.6, yeah, maybe even a little I just make sure I don't micromanage it but in general what I need to eat and I say a probably getting a little more than. [Rhonda] Is it harder when you're traveling [Brad] No. I mean, I was at breakfast this morning, I And yeah, I'll make sure I get that. [Rhonda] Awesome. Well, so, Brad, you're all over social media, Can you mention the books and then maybe... [Brad] Sure. [Rhonda] So, you're on Twitter, you're very studies. And I follow you on Twitter, you're also on your breakdown of the studies are great. So, I definitely want to make sure people [Brad] Thank you. Yeah. So, my two books, I have a textbook, which For those who want to get into, like, the and Development of Muscle Hypertrophy&quot; published And that's a hardcover, that's a serious textbook, students. But, I mean, if you have a background, someone it, but I also have a consumer-friendly textbook Muscle Plan,&quot; and that's also Human Kinetics. Both of them can be found on Amazon. And yeah, you can follow me, just google me [Rhonda] So, you're @bradschoenfeld on Twitter? [Brad] Right. [Rhonda] And @bradschoenfeldphd on Instagram? [Brad] Correct. [Rhonda] Okay. Brad, pleasure. Thank you so much for all the great information. [Brad] Thank you for having me.