Today, we are going to learn about the U.S coins! I know. Pretty cool! Pretty cool! There are six types of US coins. We're gonna look at each of the types individually you'll know what kind of coin We're gonna look at the penny, the nickel, the dime, the quarter, the half All right, let's fly into our lesson! The first coin is the penny. So what is a penny? Well, the penny is a copper coin Traditionally, pennies feature Remember, the Lincoln Memorial is a In 2010, they changed the penny the back instead of the Lincoln Memorial. So, if a penny has the Union Shield on The penny is worth less than all the Which is easy to remember! Especially if you're looking at the (whether it's an old penny with the Lincoln it actually says one cent on the back of the coin. A penny is worth one cent. This is pretty weird. Did you know some people don't and they think we should get rid of the penny? In fact, it costs more to make So, some people say, &quot;Hey, we're losing money with making these pennies! Maybe we As of today, it costs 1.67 cents to make a penny. That's actually less than it used to be, it used to cost 2 cents (or two Even though some people want to get rid of the Ah! The penny! What a wonderful coin! It's got Abraham Lincoln on the front. Older pennies have the Lincoln Memorial and They're worth one cent, so they're not worth much. But who hasn't gotten excited Cool! The second coin is the nickel. The nickel is a coin made of both copper Like the penny, the nickel has gone It doesn't look the way it has always looked. Traditionally, nickels feature the but in 2006 the nickel was Thomas Jefferson's face instead of just the side. Old nickel, new nickel. Old nickel, new nickel. Old nickel, new nickel! Okay, you get the idea. Unlike the front of the nickel, the back of the It features Monticello, which A nickel is worth 5 cents, which because remember, a penny is worth one cent! So a nickel, being worth five cents, The nickel, it's a coin that's the color silver, and depending on how old the nickel is, it either just shows the face or the front of Thomas Jefferson's face. And it's worth five cents! Awesome! Well, the third coin is the dime. The dime is a silver-colored nickel that has President This is pretty interesting! The dime is the smallest size coin, It's worth more than the A dime...how much is it worth? Well, a dime is worth 10 cents, Wow! What's easier to carry around, a little Oh my goodness! The dime. A really small silver-colored coin with and on the back, a torch! It's the same as 10 pennies, but At least I think, right? The dime...pretty cool! All right, the fourth coin is the quarter! Alright, well, what is a quarter like? Well, the quarter is a silver-colored coin made of both copper and nickel that And yeah, it's a much bigger sized The back of a regular quarter and we say a regular quarter because there are so It's kind of an interesting coin that way! Quarters are cool coins because there The State Quarters that have states on the back, the Territory Quarters that and America the Beautiful Quarters that have different scenes from the United Here's a fun hint! Even if the back looks different, if it is a silver-colored coin with You might be wondering, how Well, a quarter is worth 25 cents, Because remember, pennies are worth one cent! So imagine, what's easier? Carrying around one quarter or 25 pennies? Right! Oh my goodness! Quarters are awesome! The quarter is a large, silver-colored and a bald eagle on the back! But be careful! There are lots of special edition quarters, like State Quarters, Territory Quarters Just follow our hint and look at the front And remember, the quarter is worth 25 All right, are you ready for the fifth one? I can't hear you...come on! Okay! All right, the fifth coin is the half dollar! Well, what's the half dollar like? The half dollar is a silver-colored coin made of both copper and nickel that has The back of the half dollar features the What do you think the 50 stars represent? Do you have an idea? Yeah! The 50 states of the United States of America! And remember, there's a bald eagle but on the half dollar that the presidential seal) is surrounded by stars. So, if it's surrounded by stars, Plus, the back of the coin says half dollar. So that makes it easy too! You can look high and low for half In fact, you might not see One thing you can do is you could go to When you take those two quarters, you And you can trade two They still make half dollars, but as we said, they're more rare than the quarters, You might have figured this out already, but it is called a half dollar because It only takes two! If you have two half dollars, Well, if that's true, how Well, the half dollar is worth 50 Whoa! This coin is worth a lot! The half dollar. Pretty awesome coin! It's silver-colored and has President On the back is the presidential seal Oh my goodness! You only need two of But I wouldn't trade two of them And when you find a half dollar, oh my goodness! That's such a treasure, it's so cool! Because they are rare and they are limited! But oh, I just love that! The half dollars are awesome! The final coins are the dollar coins! There are two main dollar coins. There's the Sacagawea dollar and We're gonna look at both of those right now! The Sacagawea dollar, also honors the extraordinary Native American woman who helped Lewis and Clark in The back of the Sacagawea dollar What's with these bald eagle coins? It's just an American bird right? The bald eagle! And so, this is another bald eagle coin. But it has a golden color, that's why So, if you see a golden coin with an eagle And finally, the presidential dollars, which celebrate the first 40 all the way up to Ronald Reagan, from Here's one with Gerald Ford on it! Really cool collectible coins that Well, what does the back look like? Well, the back of the presidential Really cool! And they all say &quot;one dollar&quot; on the back. Which makes sense, because they are dollar coins! The dollar coins! There are two types, right? The Sacagawea dollar (also known as the These are wonderful coins that look really cool! People actually didn't like even buying stuff But these dollar coins are really neat, you might And then you'll remember this video Hey! Thanks so much for hanging out After this video is done, what you You might have a piggy bank or there might And you can look and see if you can identify them! Well, see you next time!