Five lights on ahead of the drivers. And Leclerc gets away well and then you have Sainz and Gasly But it's Charles Leclerc with a clear lead He's got the start, he's got the pole And there locking up... Sainz, Gasly ahead, The two McLarens getting bogged down in the midfield Charles Leclerc leads the Azerbaijan And then comes Verstappen and Sergio Perez The two going through into Turn 3 The Ferrari of Charles Leclerc has And Leclerc's been leading throughout this race, because Hamilton has got the tow. He doesn't need DRS and he makes the pass Leclerc's going to try and fight him back But it's Hamilton now ahead of Leclerc We're watching Yuki Tsunoda and we're watching Charles Leclerc He's had to wait a few laps It's happened now at the beginning Hamilton leads. Verstappen is now second Leclerc down to third. Is he going to get past Do you know what? - Look at Sergio Perez. This is exactly what Red Bull need, Up to third place. - In the space of a single lap, What's happened in sector two? That will attract the attention And it is a Ferrari of Carlos Sainz Hamilton comes in. - Hamilton... It's a slow stop again. But he had to wait for the other car We've not seen drivers but on the hard tyre he locks up - &quot;Ahhh! Sorry, guys!&quot; And he's boxing. - Yeah, I can see. Let's have a look. That's not the 1.8 I've seen. Very, very solid. - I tell you what, Ted, Max Verstappen is away That's the crucial thing here. after the pit stop, to Max Verstappen. Hard compound tyre for Sergio Perez. We'll get Ted Kravitz's thoughts 4.3-seconds stop for Perez! as you see Max Verstappen Where's Hamilton now? Sergio Perez comes out in second place, Verstappen is ahead. Hamilton behind, now, both Red Bulls. Oh no! That is an accident! And Lance Stroll, has left a huge amount of debris on the track. He's moving around in the cockpit. What happened to Lance Stroll? And yeah, absolutely no chance I said, 'potentially coming Phwoar! We are going to get racing And now Verstappen's gone, behind Sergio Perez. Charles Leclerc Sebastian Vettel gets past the Ferrari. There's a huge lock-up He almost goes into the back Somehow the Aston Martin Now Sebastian Vettel's looking to have a go As Hamilton is trying to make a move Perez goes through second stays ahead, I should say, High drama at the restart there, - Sebastian Vettel getting a nice one off Pierre Gasly. - He's got the tow. He's got the pace. He loves this track. In every season that he's finished third, he's finished fourth. And guess what? It can go right down to the Ohhh! And that's Max Verstappen! Leading this race! Now out of this race! - &quot;Tyre! ****!&quot; That is a 200 mph crash and that is also Red Bull's first one-two And the red flag has now come out. Brakes smoking on Lewis Hamilton's car. Perez on pole. Hamilton alongside Perez gets away well. Sebastian Vettel is coming Perez tries to cut off Hamilton, Perez leads from Sebastian Vettel. And Hamilton has gone from second in the race as they tiptoe their way around Turn 2. We lost the championship leader We lost his main rival with This has not been a good day Under pressure, now, Pierre Gasly. Looks like Charles Leclerc Leclerc goes back up into He started on pole. Gasly's going to come back at him again, though. and gets past Charles Leclerc This scrap's still going on. Behind them Lando Norris But Lewis Hamilton, and he fails to score points today, as down the inside goes Gasly, For one brief moment, Gasly cuts him off aggressively Sergio Perez moved teams over the winter. In his sixth race for his new team, Sebastian Vettel moved teams. and their first podium Pierre Gasly's back on the podium too What a Baku race it was! Perez picks up the points. Verstappen and Hamilton, the championship contenders, It's Baku to the drawing board for them. It's celebrations for Perez tonight!