Welcome to the second part of the interim status of the ETM Fehrenkotter practical test! We draw a kind of half-time balance sheet! Since July 2021, seven trucks have been competing in an exciting competition at Fehrenkotter Transport &amp; Logistik GmbH. It's all about economy, reliability and practicality. So about everything that counts in everyday life. This test is characterized by its practical applications. That means that we are here every day all over Europe with the trucks, they have different loading conditions, different loads, different aerodynamic conditions. And we say very clearly: we don't want to show how it's done in the laboratory, we want to show how it's done in practice. A test that interests everyone in the commercial vehicle industry. After all, where else are trucks from all manufacturers put through their paces in such a practical way over a period of several years? Not only company boss Joachim Fehrenkotter accompanies each phase of the test, his fleet manager Robert Theis is also involved. Not only the technical refinements of the vehicles themselves are important for the practical test, but also the enthusiasm of the participating truck drivers. But what is more important? I think a combination of both. The selected driver who handles the car well, who handles the technical possibilities of the vehicle well. And also uses it. There are many ways in which manufacturers can reduce consumption. There are predictive cruise controls and the like. It has to be applied accordingly. In the run-up to the test, we made sure that the vehicles were driven by employees who also had a certain soft spot for the product. And thank God we were able to make a good selection that basically developed a certain love for the car. In Part 1 of the interim status, we have already reported on the MAN TGX 26.470, the Volvo FH 460 6x2, the DAF XF 480 and the Mercedes-Benz Actros 2545 6x2 Gigaspace. So the interim results for the Iveco S-Way, the Renault T 480 and the Scania S 450 are still missing. Here, too, it should be noted that these are only the preliminary interim results, because accounting is only given at the end. We're at halftime now. There are trends. The vehicles that are now fuel efficient will not really deteriorate significantly. Those that aren't great today probably won't be able to make these improvements in the next year and a half. But at the end of the day, a repair, a major repair, a major breakdown can change the outcome significantly. Now to the Iveco S-Way, which Joachim Fehrenkotter recently tested on eurotransportTV . The successor to the Stralis with a Curser 11 engine and 480 hp is a new development and impresses above all with its driver-friendly handling and the generous amount of space in the cabin. In general, the manufacturer has now replaced the 11-liter engine with a unit with a displacement of 13 liters and 490 hp. This ten hp more powerful engine is described as significantly more agile and fuel-efficient. At the start of the test, however, this variant was not yet available. The next test candidate is the Renault T 480 P 6x2 with a low-high cab. Striking: its direct handling and the very precise steering. On the other hand, the materials in the cockpit, which are only partially digitized, look a little rustic . A problem with the lifting axle sensors was solved on the test truck . Initially, the axle sought road contact even with a light load, which now seems to be over after the system has been recalibrated. The Renault T from Fehrenkotter, registered in June 2021, still has a 12.8 liter engine with 480 hp. However, the Renault T is now also available with Volvo's more economical turbo compound engine . Exactly the economy of this engine would have suited the test candidate well. Well, I can imagine that the Renault T with the turbo compound engine, which is offered there today, would not really have been inferior to the Volvo in terms of fuel consumption. On the one hand , these are test vehicles, but on the other hand, we have them running for a minimum of seven years in the fleet. Well, if you got the engine, that would have been good for us. The bottom line is that the Renault T now has an average consumption of 28.93 liters of diesel per hundred kilometers. Just for comparison: the Volvo FH 460 with a turbo compound engine needed just 27.5 liters. Almost a liter and a half less! While we 're on the subject of diesel and consumption, let's take a look into the future. It's about the next ETM Fehrenkotter practical test, which will only take place in a few years. Will the trucks starting there still all be diesel-powered or will they be electric? Well, I think that the next test in the direction of electromobility would certainly be exciting if the topic were taken up. But I don't think that in, let's say, two or three years, the distribution will be so large, the quantities will be so high that we will achieve a certain relevance. Certainly, as I said, super exciting, but I assume that in three or four years the market share of electric vehicles will not be more than five percent in the heavy-duty or long-distance transport sector. The last test candidate is the Scania S 450 with S Highline cab. The driver's opinion is clear: the interior is impeccable. When it comes to driving, the software and hardware are perfectly matched. The entire truck is designed to relieve the driver in every respect. Digitization is a matter of course here! There is always talk of passenger car quality in the Scania, which Joachim Fehrenkotter also feels the same way. This includes, above all, the extremely smooth running. This truck obviously has winning qualities and its 12.7 liter engine with 449 hp is one of the most economical. Yes, with a smooth consumption of 27 liters, this truck from April 2021 is the most economical in the ETM Fehrenkotter practical test so far! Incidentally , in November of the same year, Scania presented a new generation of engines that are said to be even more economical. The new Scania engine is said to be even more efficient, which of course would have helped us or always does. Profitability depends on consumption, extremely heavily on consumption, and if it were half a liter better then that would of course be a big advantage for us. Once again: All previous results in the ETM Fehrenkotter practical test are interim results that can still change. But the half-time balance reveals how complex the test is overall.