- This is a hologram that I made by hand. This is also a handmade hologram, but as you can see, it was made by someone who actually knows what they're doing. Both holograms were made and this one and this one, the technique is deceptively simple. You just make scratches I made my holograms on sheets of black basically a compass where These aren't like traditional but these types of holograms are the same as these handmade ones. It's just that the One thing that's hard to appreciate on video is that this thing is 3D. It appears to hover I can give you a sense of in front of the camera or but to really appreciate it. Here's a cross view stereogram. If you're able to go cross eyed with each other, it should You know, while we're doing why don't I show you this It's pretty cool, isn't it? And here are those other etch holograms. To show you how etch holograms We'll start with a really simple just a floating point of light and then we'll work up to To create a floating point of light all you have to do is gently score an arc into the acrylic sheet. Now, if I put the camera then you can see that the light But what decides the Because look, as the camera Well, the simplest way to think about it is that the etched groove is like a curved trough shaped mirror. I was gonna try and figure of those so that you could But actually it pretty much acts the same as a shiny tube like this one. And this has the added benefit of being able to change how bent it is. See when the tube is straight, in front of the light source, But when the tube is curved the glint doesn't travel as far and the same thing happens And that's really the because your left eye sees this image and your right eye sees this image. And if your brain makes the assumption that the glint is in fact an object then your eyes will move so Just like how if you hold your you'll see two fingers they converge on your finger. Then you see one finger and the same thing is happening with the glint except in Your eyes have to move apart And of course, your of your eyes to figure out So if your eyes have to move apart to bring the two glints together then that tells your brain than the surface of the acrylic. The opposite happens when you turn the arc upside down actually and the glint appears to be If you want to make a more complex object then you simply draw out your and lots of points around your drawing, creating an etch for each point. You'll notice that the image is distorted compared to the original. And the distortion of the on the location of the From what I can tell, if it was possible to have the with the mirror, you might of the image, but at that angle you get basically no glint at all. So there's a trade off, and if I would pre warp the image so that when the image became warped by the viewing experience, it would undo the pre-applied warp and the image would look normal. This is all well and good, &quot;Hold on a second, this thing is flat.&quot; Yes, it's floating below the acrylic, but it's all at the same depth and the drawing itself is two dimensional. So how can we make this by creating lines at different depths and maybe even lines that plunge Well, one clue is to be found that you may have like when you've run out of wiper fluid but you use the windscreen wiper anyway, the top of that bright line than the bottom of the bright line. Similarly, if a metal in a circular motion then you'll have a glint line that appears to be at the center of the circular work pattern and move away as the light And that's because, well, it turns out that the tighter the arc, the closer the glint appears to be, and the straighter the the glint appears to be. And that makes sense because if the arc was perfectly well that's analogous to the straight tube that I was holding in front of the lights. And in that situation the glint is always directly So when your eyes move to line up the glint in that at the same depth as And then at the opposite end, if the arc was so tight that well the glint wouldn't to the surface of the acrylic. So it should appear to be at And so curvatures in will give you depths in between. Here, for example I've created a tilted of the square is further away. So the top edge is created The sides of the square were much trickier because each point along the So I had to adjust the divider and change the position of the pivot point as I went down the line. By specifying where the You can have objects that on the viewing angle, and that means you can create opaque behind that you can only see Because the opaque square in to the surface of the acrylic. In other words, I was You can actually see the for the divider, because it's created all these and there are various techniques from happening, but it makes The final thing I wanted of the corner of a cube sticking out. This is a lot harder, because all the lines are and it was really mind bending to try and work out pivot position and divider adjustment I also wanted to see if I of the cube poking out from which meant having some In the end, I made a bunch of mistakes and it was so hard to get to this point that I just rage quit on this particular hologram. So this is as much as you get of this one. This is actually my attempt He discovered the divider Though he does mention that he found some prior Actually, he has some great advice on things like etching I'll leave a link to his website. Actually, his YouTube There's a link to that in But anyway, as you can see, The bits that stick out from and the glints are quite long. I think that's an artifact of I thought it would be for people to be able to like if you end up making So on my Discord server, I've created a channel I've called it Science Fair Project. So if you do end up do hop over to my Discord server. The link is in the description. Now here's the question. How do you get from this to this? Well, this one was He really helped me to linked to all his stuff Some of his creations So one issue you may have that you don't get with this hologram, is the image warps and bends in weird ways as you Matthew explained that that's because actually an In fact, most people aren't using the right shape. They're all approximations Matthew figured out what I won't go into the equations but look, he kindly sent me this animation of how you might create the correct curve. So it's possible to do it mechanically with the right linkages. But actually what Matthew So he defines the 3D shape and then his code converts that into the appropriate etching. The etching is then carried It's really interesting to just look at the etches themselves because there would be no way of knowing just looking at this mess into a 3D shape with an This is a depiction of So here's a quick tangent about that, because they're really cool. It's possible to link in such a way that no two meaning if you break any the other two come apart, What about those vinyl records? Well, earlier I said that the arc of a circle is not the right shape for the etch because it except under very specific of a circle is the right And that specific circumstance in a full circle and the image rotates once for And that fact has been used beautifully in these commemorative I really like it when and you look at what they that makes logical sense. That thing should exist. Like maybe there's a task but you know that you should do it and now you can pay this And that's exactly the logic behind this sponsor of Here's what Incogni does. There are these companies called data brokers about you and then sell that You don't know who they're selling it to, but you can contact them and say, &quot;Please stop and actually delete my data.&quot; The problem is there are and they all want to be and sometimes they'll reject your request and you have to make an appeal. Well, Incogni have figured for each one of those So one service has done So now I can just sign up to Incogni give them permission to act on my behalf and they just take care of it. I've been with Incogni for a little while, so I can show you the progress. Look, these are all the that they now don't have my data. The thing that really annoys me about these companies and they'll know my full about life insurance And I just think, how did And typically, there's no way to find out but you can make it stop. I just know myself well enough that I will never go I mean, it would take months anyway. And in that sense, I'm the and maybe you are too. If you're interested to I'd recommend you check out If you go to incogni.com/science, the first 100 people will get 20% off. The link is also in the description so check out Incogni today. (upbeat music)