Today I have the pleasure to chat with leading authority on energy. His book, The the entire history of oil. His most Climate, and the Clash of Nations. Glad to be with you. Prize is literally a history of the entire 20th in the last 150 years involves oil. How You begin by not realizing what you're doing. in two years. It took me seven. The story woven in with the history of the 20th century. a publisher had flown up from New York to see me very interesting idea for a book. I said, &quot;What?&quot; &quot;That's an interesting idea.&quot; I thought to the century wasn't over yet at that point. But the story, it really was not the history of the I've found that there are a lot of books which just feels a need to say, &quot;If you really want basically everything else in the world.&quot; I If you read Caro's biography of LBJ or Kotkin's their country's history when this is happening. actually just want to write about oil and in the Middle East, what's happening in World War II and World War I and everything? are things that are very much in my interest. history of the origins of the Soviet-American As I was writing The Prize, I didn't intend to thing led to another. I would be amazed and think, In my mind, I did not do a detailed outline, narrative that located oil in this larger context was as a way to understand the 20th century. issues around energy later on. First I want to of oil. There's one thing you notice not only Drake and Rockefeller, but also even with very so forth. You have these incredibly who have been the dominant characters in the reason that oil attracts this kind of personality. a lot of willpower and perseverance. Clearly But he was also creating a new kind of business of industry at the same time that he was doing who's more responsible than anybody else for the position of the United States in the world. He "You're wasting your money, you're wasting I'll waste it." But one of the things that comes One thing that really struck me is how fast the first oil well in Pennsylvania. In less than busts and Standard Oil is formed. Millions every year. I don't know if there's been any When I think about what we saw with the oil industry in the 1920s, it's kind of like what the 21st century. Another example that always you have guys who are showing these five cents. 15 years later, they're living in It is striking to see these businesses that come gravitate and develop so quickly when people grab comparing the energy position of the United States certainly, but there was no tech. Nobody talked Big Tech, the way people talked about Big Oil. With the internet in the 90s, you have this big of people lose money. But they were fundamentally technology and actually did transform the world. who go broke, but... Fracking is a particularly geopolitical situation in the United they've eaten away at each other's profits. thing when I was writing about the beginning of It's far away and yet it felt contemporary saw booms and busts. You saw trees that were going those people who came in either had resilience In the beginning of the oil industry--when it was oil so centralizing? Why was it the case that People think of John D. Rockefeller and Standard with gasoline. John D. Rockefeller was a lighting the darkness with kerosene, with lighting. was candles and whaling. The whaling industry 40 years of the oil industry it was a lighting Thomas Edison. Suddenly you have electric lights oil business." But by the way, over here is Henry market in the 20th century for gasoline. product. It went for like three cents a gallon. I didn't appreciate before. Before the car was people were saying Standard Oil would go John D. Rockefeller became the richest of lighting, not as a merchant of mobility. that Rockefeller was especially interested in owning and drilling. A lot of the producer surplus such that the producer surplus went to refining? was the access to the market. The producers other people but Rockefeller controlled about you a good sweating--drive down prices you to sell to him or amalgamate with him. Rockefeller and the way Standard Oil was run? created a very disciplined business. That was before computers or calculators. It was was also boldness and being able to see where What did they do with the non-kerosene parts of It was really a waste product. There wasn't lighting. Today of course, oil is in your COVID vaccine. It's everywhere. Oil unwarranted? Reading The Prize, I'm great stuff. As their name implies, they were refining. And their market share was going retrospect, was the antitrust a mistake? famous antitrust case in history and reflected Was it a mistake? I don't know. It broke up companies. It provided more room for innovation stronger industry. Of course the other thing Standard Oil was that these individual parts as a result of that John D. Rockefeller as a There were also scientists who came up Exactly. Because things weren't centralized, experimentation, research, and that other people said couldn't be solved. stunned me is that the people who ran Standard did he only recruit the people who were He respected his competitors, particularly the &quot;Okay, rather than fight you, I'm going to in and they all prospered as a result. to fight you. We're going to join you." He became the very epitome of the monopolist. wrote a book about the Standard Oil trust. She with loaded dice. He was the very embodiment of Roosevelt, and this was the most obvious trust. everybody bought. You and I don't go out and you go to a gasoline station and fill it omnipresent product. Rockefeller's idea and expand the market. But it was a monopoly suspicion that it wasn't only economic monopoly, The thing I'm curious about is, it seems like they ran for the presidency on busting. If you mess president runs on breaking up your company, maybe feels like the PR could have been better. private business?" was his notion. "We're a Today, you would have a PR advisor tell him but at that time... It probably also came from the running a global company from an office on Another thing is that he retires early-- of his guys who was running the company went to Roosevelt's books, especially bound in leather, do any good. Because with Roosevelt, Let's go to World War I and World War II. A of Churchill, Andrew Roberts. As you discuss this sort of technological visionary and about often. Maybe talk a little bit about what Churchill was the First Lord of the Admiralty. All means you had to have people on board shoveling board. If you switched to oil, the ships would be They wouldn't need to carry the same people. Admiral Jackie Fisher were pushing him--to convert is treacherous because we'll depend rather than Welsh coal. He said, &quot;This is got my title from. Originally it was going to be what he said. Then I just made it The Prize. development. I'm forgetting what it was called tank. He really did constantly push technology. He was educated in the classic sense. That's why that you had to constantly push for advantage. amount of things. But World War I is especially the span of four or five years, you go from tank being invented during this time. You go from It's extraordinary. In 1912, the head of the but of no use in war. The war did begin with was based upon the railroad and inflexible. airplanes. A war that began with cavalry ended up in my reading and writing of The Prize, is commodity. The person who became Britain's floated to victory on a sea of oil. won the war if it wasn't for the tank," or Exactly. What the Allies had was There's one thing I worry about with regards to conflict, it seems like there's an overhang there's a sort of overhang where we could develop With drones and other sorts of robots today, today it would be fought with very different People say that the Spanish Civil War in the for World War II, where a lot of technologies and look at Ukraine today, you see that's happening information technologies, cyber warfare, and Hobby drones have become agents of war. Obviously, also a World War II battle in that there's been called positional warfare, trench warfare. So you certainly the beta test for new technologies. Why wasn't Hitler able to produce more he could have won if he had more synthetic fuel. could never get to. Synthetic fuel meant process. The other thing is that the Allies Prize, I intended to write one chapter on World just so amazing. World War II was not an oil war, When Hitler invaded Russia, he was not only going of Baku. When the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor, said if they'd come back a third time and hit have taken another two years. General Rommel in &quot;Shortage of oil, it's enough to make one Germany is held back by oil. The US is going Japanese, attacking them to basically drain There's one big thing that was a real eye-opener would fly their planes into aircraft carriers. save fuel so they wouldn't have to fly back. but the Pacific War was instigated because war in Manchuria. But precisely because The US put an embargo on them. One of the our fleet will become scarecrows.&quot; strategic resource, but in World curious about when different parts oil is as a strategic resource. Was it After World War I, it clearly was on the You had governments much more engaged the US was so dominant as a producer. Remember used by the Allies during World War II came you had these fears of running out. That was companies beginning to go into the Middle East, After World War II, in the big picture They're trying to figure out what to do with is such an important resource. Fast forward where you've lost a ton of leverage against the control the supply of oil. How did that happen? World War II we had economic growth, highway and we outran production. The US becomes an amounts. Then as we go into the late 60s, you a vibrant economy. Europe has recovered, a really rapidly. The markets that were quite amply people didn't realize that we were becoming the paying attention to that. It was thought there are When we finally get to the crisis, the famous modern age of energy--what's going on at the the United States called Watergate. The front supplies. It's all about what Richard Nixon the political process. There was just inattention energy security as an issue. It tends to fall When did we realize that there was It was after World War II. People had begun geologist named Everette DeGolyer did a trip to He came back and said the center of gravity No one knew how much or anything, but they they didn't want it to fall into the hands of don't know that the first post-war crisis with Soviet Union making a grab for a part of Iran. sense that you've got to secure oil supply Middle East suddenly becomes much more important place producing oil in the Middle East before 1938 in Kuwait and Saudi Arabia and then When I read in The Prize about what happens it's about 200 pages of how initially, the exporting countries. First, it's just incredibly the exporting countries are like, &quot;No, we got to Then just over a couple of decades, what happens concessions: "We want 55%, 60%." These are the the cartel, OPEC, in 1960. But even before that, in the sense that they can say, "If you I had a mentor, an economist named Raymond the obsolescing bargain. Let's say Dwarkesh put $2 billion in there and it's great and times change. People forget the risk that you deal." That just happens again and again. It with minerals. It was also the end of colonialism. if a company makes a deal with a country to go So if you're one of these western companies, You know that over time they have obviously the if they want. What should you have done so that universally happens? If you were in charge of it... relations. But the countries are generally poor. our resource." Over time, as a company, you have have the tankers. It isn't like they can just take develop your indigenous oil people who can run it. that there was an inevitability to it, which also Why didn't the US government--or the UK &quot;OK, you guys are companies. You guys can't making sure that America has a lot of oil. Remember the British owned a big until the late 1980s. The British government was what was then called Anglo-Persian, Anglo-Iranian The governments did try and support, but there of access and of maintaining the supplies, then today trying to push back on the Houthis Thinking purely from the perspective of one of the majors, would you have refused No, I think that was part of your way of them in so that you were not this isolated island. oil operations. But by that point, they had people at drilling, and at finding oil. They still operations for quite a number of years, until the Was the continuation of antitrust in oil reading your book, what happens is that oil obviously after OPEC they're literally a cartel, In 1973, the US government finally did give and have a united front in the negotiations. But It got tied up with Arab-Israeli wars and were other things going on and you had the Let's talk about the oil crisis in 1973. the supply of oil didn't actually go down something. Why did it have such a huge effect? It created a panic. It was also right towards it got all tangled up. Then we had the system of it much harder for the market to adapt. One of the markets to adjust. Because when governments try to some states want to do that today--it accentuates The tendency is to want to control them. the market, where supplies were. There greater knowledge and transparency. You had what that produced the oil in the Middle East, put it in the US or Europe, to their gas stations. That big oil companies on a gas station--if you're odds are that it's not owned by I see. That's another thing I was before spot and futures exchanges for oil, this and eighties. I didn't really understand how oil are able to have such a... Traditionally, OPEC was setting prices, but then the that's exactly what OPEC did with its prices. supplies and to be more efficient and undercut. one of the things I really carried away from The characters in the book, but the two most important Demand. That's something that you've got to keep The interesting thing from the book is that oil pretty different in that with other sorts of supply. If lithium gets more expensive, it's not that big a deal. Yeah. Whereas, at least during the entire world economy was just on hold. as a strategic commodity. Japan had basically just switching from coal to oil. It was just such a You had a price collapse in 1986, which was the saying, "Oh, the price of oil is going to go today's dollars. It collapsed. So markets do Let's say you were in charge of one of these have a tremendous amount of leverage because everything's at a standstill. Over or more oil will come online and so forth. But people really need your oil. What would you have UN Security Council and I'll open up the gushers&quot;? power. Certainly it was a very different and fell, was asserting, &quot;We're players in the that people didn't think much about in the US. You had this huge flow of money that went into That made them a whole other source of influence. president, Spiro Agnew, who had to quit. and even had people paying for his groceries. A trying to do business as a consultant. People if you're a private equity fund, for many of them not necessarily the pension funds of various or venture capital funds are going to the Gulf Does this happen with you? You're the expertise is worth a lot to them. the world. Sometimes I joke that the if you're a curious person, is that it's global. involves so much travel and so much jet lag. But for me it's a constant process of learning. and understand what's in people's minds. a tremendous gush of revenues in the 70s which of them used it best? Because if you look didn't do enough to make sure it didn't fall when to go to war. Saudi Arabia uses it on welfare. big player then, the United Arab Emirates and that's probably worth a trillion dollars. They when I looked at it, more than half their GDP was to do today to diversify their economies, and oil. Because you don't know where technology The Shah of Iran, who fell from power in 1979, his grandchildren. Now the grandchildren Not his grandchildren. are somewhere else. That's right. But on the Arab that revenue stream, but needing oil in order to still, at the end of the day, heavily dependent The Middle East obviously today has a lot of crazy religious pathologies in the world exist there. oil happened to be? Or did the oil in some way That's a very good question. I don't have a good religion. There's also the Arab-Israeli conflict. neo-colonial power in the Middle East. If you look other countries who belong to various militias I'm in the Arab Gulf countries, they don't in the sense that Persia wants to dominate They're imagining Xerxes' armies. Yeah. We think this is a very interesting aspect of the vehicles in the world are the offshoots If you look at Norway, or if they are offshoots of oil. Singapore's, Let's say you are in charge of an oil producing dollars or something, which per capita is you've got a trillion dollar sovereign wealth Per capita, it's like $20-30,000. you know that the majority of your GDP is not in charge of it. What do you do tomorrow? Is it Or would you just put it to work globally? question whether you use that money as a national another thing to use it as a basically In Saudi Arabia, what's called the PIF, the Dhabi they've differentiated the roles of these the argument is the same argument that in the US which is: diversify. of it as an investment vehicle, then maybe the Yeah but you do want to diversify your There's also another critical need: you a capital intensive business. It's not a labor kinds of industries as well. If you look at your roughly is under the age of 30, something like Oil famously makes rich countries richer and poor you're a country that just discovered oil today, you're already advising such countries. If you to do to avoid getting Dutch disease themselves? means that you create an inflationary economy and the Dutch disease. Of course, that concept was Netherlands became a big producer of natural as they say, sterilize some of the money that invest it overseas. Then you want to put basic human needs. You want to turn Why is it so hard to set up a stable oil you've got trillions of dollars Some have, some have not... off kilter. You have Iran, Venezuela, Libya, and ton of money,&quot; Saudi Arabia-type states. it really can create a lot of distortions. Look the Shah of Iran. Things don't happen for one two years and was losing it. He also had and he had his secret police and so forth. created inflation and dislocated the economy. a comparative basis what worked and didn't work. are other things that are involved as well. led by the Ayatollah Khomeini against The Shah was saying women should get educated was not something that the very conservative just about money. It's part of a larger mix. basically nationalized oil companies? but Aramco is a very well run company. As did their transition and retained their people you meet people who have PhDs from MIT or very well trained global workforce and a very high the companies that were eventually nationalized I'm curious if there are any stories you can leaders are inviting you to meet them and give from these conversations. Is there someone who's on these issues? You've been all around the world. One is in The New Map and you and I with Prime Minister Modi in India. India was of the Permit Raj, where government really tightly you probably don't know I did I describe a scene in the book where he argue about whether you allow market forces to and then I just remember his remarks: &quot;We need to how India has become so much of a bigger to being a sort of enclosed and closed economy. if you look at the sort- I thought we were already in 2024. the rates of economic growth or rates of total it's pretty high for a long time. It's 2% total Afterwards it's like less than 1 percent in the or was that just a coincidence? I know people like Ben Bernanke, the former crisis and why that slowdown occurred. The trajectory to what at that time was the deepest we've had deeper recessions since then. But then the rates of economic Also with the US, as your economy becomes You're growing off a much larger base. that techno-optimistic people really talk energy because of solar and other things? Would bottlenecked by the price of energy? Would it not We'll come to it in terms of AI and electricity. I that the cost of energy is a general constraint constraint in California because it has the because of state regulation. Big Tech wasn't happened. Like the oil industry, it's happened When you have price spikes, when you have and those risks are there. Although when the incumbents always worry about the price pay it. It's the one price you pay all the time but I don't think it's a huge constraint. supposed to be so cheap that you wouldn't meter there's fusion, which seemed to be 50 years away. change things. Electricity may be a constraint but that's a very specific problem. about how much energy will be required for AI. The and they keep getting bigger and bigger over time. by 2030, which is half a decade away, will be What a change it's been in the last year and a AI, and electricity. It wasn't on the agenda a conference with electric power utility CEOs being surprised by it. Then we have our people had woken up to the fact that you're to 10%. US electricity hasn't grown very much over you're looking at maybe 2% annual growth or struck. I did a discussion with Bill Gates at our talk about data centers as 20,000 CPUs. Now we The sense is that you have electric cars and back chip manufacturers and smart manufacturing to AI and data centers. Suddenly this industry that you are going to meet the growth is very much on where they can position themselves so that we have 24-hour electricity. Now there's energy security energy security in terms of electricity. There's Some will say the answer to that is innovation. data centers will operate differently. So those who say that will happen, but it "How are we going to meet that demand?" AI is had thought about a year or a year and a half ago. implies, because it's not widely distributed they have to be one gigawatt to Right. You look at developing data centers. a nuclear power plant. If they do that, that means grid. There's a scramble to understand this. Then which is that you can't get things permitted. It have a workforce that has aged out. It's you need seven years. You can see that this area The thing I find wild when I'm reading The is ultimately contingent on the laws happened in a different way and then oil either. Then it's hard to imagine how society That's right. What you really realize the engine really, of economic development. would still spend six weeks crossing the one place to another. That's a very interesting It's also interesting that the tech trees you get the next energy transition and then you it's... or maybe we would have gotten it anyway. this professor at Yale, kind of a consultant, did he did some studies that showed that actually into a lighting fuel fluid. I love the risk wouldn't be where we are. We wouldn't have the billion people were it not for it. Obviously, the incentives for innovation are there. That's but it may really come from the side. fact that oil for the first 50 years is used for about that is people are asking now about these like many books length of content, out one question people are asking. Let's say you what does that look like? What does an With crude oil in the beginning you're producing a only using it for lighting. You then discover which is obviously motorized transportation. Currently what we're using these models for is kerosene. What would the equivalent of That's a question that I'd like to ask beginning of something new. I remember a "AI is going to be the true How mad are the frackers that they basically but they were so successful that That was a period up till about 2017, when it the financial community said, &quot;Hey guys, the growth. I'm going to reward you for sending shale is almost a mature industry. I think people US was the world's largest importer of oil. We oil in 2008. Now we're more than 13.2 million People thought it was a big joke. It could never want energy independence.&quot; Late night comedians it's had huge economic significance. Back in $400 billion a year to import oil. Now It's been geopolitically very significant. Biden administration. It turns out that if it liquefied natural gas, shipped to Europe, Putin Ukraine by using the energy weapon with, politicians coming to the US to try and secure about it. It really is a revolution that is oil. It wishes it was in our position. are we from a scenario where our allies, most Very, very, very far. That's why when the Japanese prime minister they were expressing great alarm about future energy from the US is very critical to their to get their LNG? They'll get some from the be pushed back to getting it from Vladimir has become part of their energy security. but if you think about what the Japanese are did an event with the Japanese prime minister in For them, US exports are part of the security of NATO. It's really different. We're talking No one would be happier to see a ban on US firsthand sense of that. In 2013, before he which was his version of a global economic question. It was going to be something we were gas revenues. I mentioned the word "shale" and he He got really angry in front of 3000 people. I realized there were two reasons. One, he was gas. Two, he saw that the shale revolution of the US because the US would no longer be was right about both of them. When he invaded if he cut off the gas to Europe, that The Prize especially, but all your detailed understanding of people and events and &quot;Here's how many barrels are produced in year Y.&quot; When you're in these conversations, or energy, do you feel like you really need to know Yeah in one way, I see myself as a storyteller. communicate. I like writing about people and not writing The Prize or writing these books, I almost happening and that makes it more vivid for me. you're competing with if you're a writer. You're Podcasts. in and people love stories. I started writing when He'd been a newspaper reporter and I would hunt I was student body president but I was also undergraduate at Yale, I started a magazine called learned a lot of my writing doing that. I learned how to tell a story. I really love shaping a the great quote that just illuminates everything When you were writing The Prize, it's a but there's also the sense that you have You're making a deal with yourself. You're making not going to totally rewrite in year seven because is I started a business the same year I started when they go back and write history, they know had all the information, all the time, and all the information. You certainly don't have That sense of contingency, which is such a part of the things that made The Prize, The New Map, and was a question. Where the hell did the modern entrepreneurs. I have been an entrepreneur, I have of what you're doing with podcasts. You sort of that. At the same time, I love writing narrative. meet another analyst who doesn't have but just knows the facts and figures. What is it do they often lack when you talk to them? love reading the monthly energy review from the or the Statistical Energy Review. I love it. the human agency, the decisions that went onto the mistakes and the things that you missed or tendency to think that things are inevitable, but the next. That's what happened on December 7th, in the Middle East right now. You could go from Just reading it, you can tell. It's hard to an understanding of other things. Arab nationalism Egypt launch an attack? Because they wanted but they actually wanted to end the war... That's right. You don't understand why these but why did it happen? Part of it is, Let's talk about solar and renewables. With oil, it off and you can turn it back on again. It gives Whereas with wind and solar, if you're the people that change the geopolitical situation and the It's a question of scale. What I carried away, to Churchill. He said that safety lies in variety give you diversification. Electric vehicles For China, wind and solar, electric cars, is the vulnerability of importing 75% of their oil, They know the story of what happened with World cars is less about air pollution and more about they couldn't compete in the global market electric cars. Those are the strategic things. Until you have batteries that can really deliver You take California today. People think wind of electric generation in California, but 43% And that gets back to the data centers. You're system. How much can you do with batteries Wind and solar are also stories about where did the wind and solar industries come had left Europe, one of whom had driven his car he's a chemist working for the US government. business. That became the first solar company. I like to say the modern wind business is the credits and the sturdy Danish agricultural they needed to find wind power machines that could It took about 30 years for both those industries 2010 that they actually became competitive. Now, what? Now,they're all tied up. Renewables in what I call The New Map, the movement to the tariffs on Chinese electric cars, 25% tariffs on bill, the Inflation Reduction Act. It's huge, it's done. It's about climate and renewables, Speaking of solar deployment, I think $500 billion budget. That's the yearly it. Is there anything--when you look through energy--comparable to this scale of deployment? Or is this just an unprecedented scale? fast. As I say, these guys started the solar also interesting that what really gave the boost which provided the incentive for the Chinese to Right now, wind is about 10% of US electricity. It certainly will grow very fast. I just heard conference. There's real tension between states localities don't want solar or don't want wind. around like, "No More Wind." of the blades of one of the big wind turbines now created some really huge consternation You need supply chains. Wind and solar are a to start a new offshore wind project in won't get them until 2029 or 2030 because of But of course, solar is so dominated by China. Is there a bunch of skill transfer here that be really good at deploying solar or something? companies say yes. They look at offshore wind we can do offshore wind." You see that in Europe or BP, or Shell, or Total, are big skills in that." Solar's a little different. that they can use skills that they use for that. molecules, we don't do electrons." That's where "We can do all of it." The Americans say, "We But there's a lot of interest in hydrogen because can substitute for natural gas for instance. it's very early. Again, sometimes people forget as to what the requirements are. small. It's a fraction of GDP. Oil is 3% of but you wouldn't see that in the GDP numbers. market, Dow Jones. It's also a smaller but there are a lot of other things that Department of Commerce uses, there are different there are about 12 million people in the US whose I'm curious about how you imagine the demand the past, you're not going to stop going to work the Arab oil embargo, prices went up like 300% if oil goes up in price, you can Zoom or video can increase supply if you want to. Because going to be a lot more elasticity in demand? compute is that you have this sort of thing where this and it gets better. Currently there's nothing it, there's a huge elasticity of demand. you've done how AI is really gonna change that it's gonna change everything including capital money that has gone into fusion. There's a energy transition is not going to happen because and technology. I think that's what's driving it. notions of how the energy transition will work. read one part of it, read the section on energy about today is not anything like any other energy had has been energy addition. Oil discovered in one energy source in the 1960s. Last year, three times as much as the 1960s. Now the idea is, Some of that thinking was developed during COVID, it is people worrying about energy security. I was finance minister in India. She talked about energy growth. It's very important to do that and energy different balance. There's a difference between on minerals because as you make an energy mineral intensive. An electric car uses two and We did the study and said, "Okay, let's take copper supply has to double by about 2035." years to open a new mine in the US. We just did Changing a $109 trillion world economy... it's solar is going to be really important. But things in an energy transition, but it's going to be in Nantucket, which was a key part of the of lighting in the 19th century from whaling. Exactly and then it came to an end. It light. Things are not going to stand still. that you can see coming or the ones that come AI is going to mean for how our economies work. that was the discovery in COVID. You don't Here's one of the final questions I wanted definitive history for another subject that's you can just delegate it to somebody else a topic which you feel could make for another My father had worked at Warner Brothers for a entertainment business and how that developed. so interesting. One of the things that is fun oversized personalities. There may be obnoxious but are very interesting to write about. So nobody's ever thought about: the history But I don't know if somebody has written a The one thing I've learned from doing these books to be, it's going to be at least three times as expectations on The Prize, but I think the thing are and how important the stories were. who have written similar definitive books &quot;I'm going to write this over the summer and afterwards.&quot; I interviewed Richard Rhodes, the similar story there, obviously it took longer. capitalize the company we started, which You were doing the business in Writing at night, writing at weekends, and just immersing in it. I did not have a master lot of time probably. I would just immerse myself was a painter and I would watch her sketch. and then I fill it out and work on it. Like a lot over it and just making a sentence better and one of the things is that I read the whole book every sentence have resilience? Does it sing? Did you know while you were writing it that No. We had this apartment overlooking the Charles in the morning and think, &quot;What's going to a little bit. This could end up a veil of tears. five years late, brilliantly timed. People I was five years late. But I did have a sense that some crisis was going to come. I had a sense danger that you just keep working on it. close. Thank you so much for coming It's great to have this conversation. It gave