No one is being asked, Let everything ... it was never really that. It's all this. Let the mind return to the heart. Let Go - Just Be! [Q.] One of my favourite things [Q.] not an atom can move [Mooji] Yes. I want to find myself in that, [Mooji] Yes. What have you found so far? [Q.] It's true. [Mooji] Yes. we have to remove something. Like you have to forget yourself. I don't want to leave it with those words, because they're easily misunderstood. But, somehow, we have to let go And I'm so happy, without having to explain, It moves directly into that space, because we're always so preoccupied with the mind, to the extent that we don't even know it; how strong And what has been good about the exercise, is that by bringing the attention to beingness ... And it has taken a while because if I say normally this thing that you can see So some transcendence must have happened, some maturing has happened, for me to say, What does beingness look like? What shape, what colour, what size? Still, when I say, bring it to beingness, how does it happen? These are not words When we speak, things which And we have the sense, But I say, bring the attention to beingness. [M.] Is everyone comfortable with that? [Mooji] A weak response, but ... [Mooji] And ... That to see, to not give attention, or to be aware of the mind, but not to be pulled into its stream. You have that ability, So it feels like you have no power to do it. [Mooji] Yes, because we have not practised that. We were never told about that. So that when the mind comes, That's what it means, and personal identity and the mind And with that we create through the mind. So, over the time that you have spent, I've had the privilege to be with you, so that it became alive for you, to say that, whatever arises in the mind, or through the senses, Meaning that you can perceive them, [Mooji] Nothing is stable there! Agreed? [Mooji] Nothing is stable there. Even the things you love the most, Nothing can stay there. And I presented it that And our thoughts, emotions, are like the effects in the sky, Everything you see in the sky, they are only temporary visitors. But the space is unchanging. And when you come to see like that ... When you come to see like that, you see that everything appears, [Mooji and sangha] Yes. they don't stay. It comes, it appears, it disappears. But for the first time, we began to be able And if we're able to see that even with the most subtle things that come, does that which witnesses them, does that also come and go? This is more subtle. More subtle! Relative to them, Can we wait for a moment, That the witness, of emotions, even of identity ... Identity also comes and goes. The witness, relative to that which it sees, And you say, relative to what it sees, [Mooji] Yes? [Mooji] Then, you become aware, that even the act of witnessing is perceived. [Mooji] Yes? [Mooji] By what? Can that be identified? When the very witness of life, the witness even to the ego, relative to everything that it sees, But it itself, as subtle as it is, [Mooji] Is this philosophical? [Mooji] Is it merely intellectual understanding? [Mooji] Or does it make a difference? And that you keep seeing, whatever appears, however subtle, Even your greatest thought, Even the function of witnessing, is perceived. What remains? Is it personal? Or impersonal? Only you must say. No one must say for you. You being what? That is maturity! That is the maturity of being. Then, in my view ... Why is it you came to the Earth? Is it to find out something more than this? Whatever we have possessed, Whatever comes, will go. It's as though we are three-aspected. and the sense of a personal self, and that which witnesses them; One of them belongs to time. One of them belongs to time. Even each day, as you look in the mirror, that one is changing, There's nothing wrong with this. It is also a law of God. All that takes form is transient. It comes. It plays. It goes. And it is witnessed to go! Seeing that clearly, it would seem unwise, to tie our self to the transient. Not to curse it! No one should curse. But observe. Everything is playing. Actions, reactions, interactions; And life flows on, that cannot be described. What is the nationality of the witness? What is the gender of the witness, What is the nationality? What is the parent? And it is seen that it cannot be found. Does it bring pain to you? Perceiving in this way, At first, when you are touched by grace, then disgrace comes to the surface. All that does not serve you Feelings and thoughts, And you're told, 'Don't run. Let it play out. It is being resolved.' And they come, and they go, one by one. Then you're told, Don't say, &quot;It is finished&quot;. But something else is happening. A deeper sense of one's true nature, that the world could not teach you. And you have the sense that Do you feel a stranger here? [Sangha and Q.] No. [silence] [Mooji] Can we write an autobiography Or of future? Or of past? Well, I will tell you, it's because you are mature enough to feel this. [silence] [Mooji invites a response from the questioner] [Mooji] I'm not willing If you say, 'I still can't grasp it' ... It cannot be grasped, tangibly. [silence] [Q.] After listening to your satsangs it's like, it somehow didn't get digested. [Mooji] Yes. [Q.] And now that you've told us somehow, when it's heard, to do it, [Mooji] Yes. We don't know how. Thankfully. Because then the mind will take it, and analyse it to death. But it's like a miracle! Who told us just to sit, To watch the mind, [Voice in the sangha] You, Guruji. [Mooji] OK. [Mooji] You just broke my run, now. But nobody told me, growing up. No blame. Just, no one told me. But whatever is your destiny, somehow, consciously or unconsciously, That by grace, I was brought to ... The urge arose to go to India, to sit at the foot of this one. And it was not an immediate understanding. It was an immediate impact, The understanding had to become It had to combust into beingness, or spirit. As it is for all of us! Because whatever you retain by your mind, it will not be able to be retained for long. Because always some action and it will keep changing. But what you find inside your heart, that is the one that bears witness to the mind. [Q.] You said the other day in satsang, that you used to go to McDonalds. [Mooji] Yes. Well, OK, you are exposing me, and ... Because there was a time, I say it because you should also I would go out walking. If I went walking, But I started And I'd find myself out, and this urge would come, Like, I need to! OK? And then needing to be discrete, also. So I didn't know of anywhere so, you know, 'Maccies' ... And I would just go into the bathroom, And be just grateful. I cannot remember any prayer. Gratitude that I could be experiencing And now, and feeling the, feeling the joy, when you sit, for 10, 15, 20 minutes, there is like some fight, just to be nothing! Just to Be! Even when you go on holiday, But here, just to Be! Let them go, don't control them, Let them run, Without explaining more than that. 'In being what?' 'Yes, but being what?' In Being. What can you say? And even if you sit for a short time, In the beginning it seems The mind just comes. It doesn't even knock at your door. Like some reflex, But I said, Persist. And in a short time ... Just like I see sometimes I see people running under the tree, and to again take that darshan, of being. And that's why I say, You will be encouraged by your own joy, You can do it! And we don't know Because the enitre field of the sangha But not tense! 'Tense?' 'Tight?' No. But, clean. Silent. Present. Awake. Happy. Moving in spontaneous existence. We were not taught this. And yet, no one is being asked, go and live on a mountain, give up your job'. Because you realise at some point, It's all this. Let the mind return to the heart. Not to kill the mind, [Q.] Also, you made this prayer, [Mooji] Yes. [Mooji] That's a very powerful one. Normally our concepts are treasures, for a while. But you have seen something 'Remove my ... Too many concepts! And we live in some conceptual prison. Too many ideas, too many opinions, How can you be without them? Well ... Happy! Light, free, spontaneous, fresh. Loving, wise, kind. Confident in existence. [silence] [Mooji] As you go, with some, I will call you. I want to tell you something. To come fully in. Not by running away from the world. Naked awareness. Indescribable. How to be in this world, [silence] At some point, some few, will ask, will make this prayer, Lord, dissolve this message of personhood, and its limitations, and world, delete that message of ego-hood in me. Replace me with you. If that time comes. That's the true human being. Cursing no one. [silence] As soon as your heart opens for this, power comes in. But also, resistance will come. Also, resistance will come. It's as though the culture of personhood Because it's full of dreams, unfulfilled projections, and there will be in order to taste And it goes on. It's OK. Until it's not OK. This freedom God gives. Free to be free. [silence] Where are you living inside this body? And where are you not? [silence] In every human being, in every living being, this light of God, of perfection. Intelligent existence is to awaken to This. And you are! To perceive the resistance, It is like someone asking how long it takes. And I said, You know, the person, the heart of the person, is this impersonal essence, The person is like a piece ice It is slowly dissolving. The ice is water! And the water is water. And a melting is happening. That is life. And that is satsang. But satsang is almost like [laughter] I don't know if it's a good example, though. [Mooji] Why? [Mooji] Yes, or not? [Mooji] Good. That's a good 'Yes'. OK. Thank you. So, you all know, just to refresh, just to keep again, bringing your attention ... You don't have to bring it, The sense of being is always here. And it's everywhere. It cannot leave. Sometimes it might feel like, but that's because of the way of thinking. Your beingness means yourself. You're always here. So the sense of being is here. And now I ask you, not a visual attention, not two things, but just rest only in your aloneness. Without any images or any stories, like that. And you'll see that the mind will come, and the attention wants to go to the mind, It's used to it. And I say, no, just keep bringing it back No stories, no memories, no pictures. Just like empty, but awake. Now, we're so not used to it, that what tends to happen, is very often, I said, No, it's not sleep. It's the mind rebelling a little bit like that, so, just be aware, and just keep doing it. It's going to get easier and easier, And it is the most important It will transform the quality And then I'll encourage you We started this some while ago, and say, each day, for some, they made that commitment, You can do it for 15 minutes, then 15 minutes, but learn to sit and just watch this. And it's the most powerful exercise! So much so, that you'll want to keep doing it. Because of the impact of it. The power of it, the grace of it. And it's not about many words. But it will transport the mind The presence of God and your own beingness And there is no one who could do this exercise, and not feel ... because the mind is used to a lot of resistance, But it's only initially that it plays like that. Actually, the mind longs to be in the heart. But, out of a bad habit, So I ask you to keep your attention And I'll start with five minutes at first. And you can close or open your eyes, And I will use the bell to start, and occasionally you might hear this. If I do this, [clacks the sticks] Just like [pop]. Just this sound you'll hear, and it's just like, don't touch anything. But awake and clear. OK? Om Do not fight the senses. Let everything continue to function but you are only empty and aware. No imagination. [Mooji clacks the sticks] Don't think. Just Be. Beingness is not an action taken. Though there is some effort, seemingly, just to avoid the mind. Stay only as awareness. Don't worry if there is a sense of difficulty. Don't pay any attention to that. [Mooji clacks the sticks] Clear. Clean. Empty. [Mooji rings the bell] Om Copyright 2024 Mooji Media Ltd. No part of this recording may be reproduced without Mooji Media Ltd.'s express consent.