And liftoff of the Falcon 9. Elon Musk's SpaceX is known for its frequent launches, But what many of these rockets are launching is just themselves. Broadband megaconstellation Starlink. Starlink. And we saw this garland of little lights, one after perfectly sequenced. And it was Starlink. Starlink is SpaceX's answer to providing global, thousands of satellites buzzing around the planet in a About 342 miles above the Earth's surface. While Starlink may be a business unit within the to its overall goals of making humanity like the Moon and Mars. Because Starlink is seen as an economic engine for the SpaceX reportedly generated $1.4 billion in revenue In early November 2023, SpaceX CEO Elon Musk announced cash flow. Starlink's importance to SpaceX overall as a company is Euroconsult estimates that, optimistically, by the end Starlink could represent upwards of 40% of SpaceX's This total would be somewhere in excess of $3 billion SpaceX launched its first batch of Starlink satellites has ballooned. Starlink now has over 2 million active and in over 60 countries. Starlink has been praised for its ability to connect access to reliable internet. The service has also become indispensable in areas hit war, particularly the Russia-Ukraine war. Elon Musk has also said, &quot;SpaceX will support organizations in Gaza.&quot; Although Musk said in late connect from Gaza yet. But Starlink's growing influence is garnering geopolitics. A Ukrainian official says that you have enabled What do you say to that? Meanwhile, the scientific community has its own The astronomical community got concerned because the constellation of several tens of thousands of seen as an interference to both the optical observation. But none of this has slowed down SpaceX's ambitions to CNBC explores what has led to Starlink's rapid With around 5,000 active satellites now in orbit, world's active satellites. This growth is uncharacteristic in the sense of its Whereas prior satellite service providers have ramped to a little bit over a million subscribers, and this to 2 million subscribers has taken only the better Experts estimate that the global market for consumer internet, was worth over $92 billion in 2022, and position to capture a big piece of this market going By design, LEO satellite constellations like Starlink like those operated by legacy satellite internet These satellite service providers have been constrained They launch large geostationary satellites the size of and they last 15 years. So what ends up happening is they have more boom, bust introduce capacity so far at an unrelenting pace, so subscribers by continually launching new satellites. For the incumbent players, they're kind of stuck with Although initially conceived for the consumer segment, markets, including the maritime and aviation Starlink is absolutely witnessing explosive growth in over 4,000 vessels by our count as of the third confirmed commitments on over 400 commercial aircraft SpaceX has also announced plans to offer cellular partnership with several global telecom partners, It's a feature Apple introduced in the iPhone 14, in satellite operator Globalstar. Your phone or mine, if they're compatible with the Starlink's direct-to-cell service. So when you exit coverage areas on rural highways, poor cellular coverage, you'll be able to space-based network extension of T-Mobile's network, Another factor that's helped Starlink's rapid growth is Starlink is vertically integrated, it makes its own own service. So it's almost completely and its distribution channels. It's a portable system. So when you think about how you connect to Starlink antenna or terminal, fairly inexpensive, and all you source. But making its equipment user friendly has not come Early on, the company faced steep costs to manufacture Production was initially estimated to be as high as At the time, SpaceX charged consumers $499 for its cost, since SpaceX has cut the manufacturing cost of charges residential customers $599 to buy them. Starlink's ease of use and deployment has made it an The big benefit of Starlink and how it's being used in communications. It's providing a pathway for the civilians to stay connected to the outside world. It allows a pathway for the military to communicate direction to their forces. SpaceX began offering its Starlink service to Ukraine Fedorov, back in February 2022. Here's Musk reflecting on Starlink's importance at the Russia had actually taken out all of the satellite except for Starlink. It was the only one that was one that is effective at the front lines. And Starlink today is the backbone of the Ukrainian One of the other benefits that we're seeing in Ukraine resilience. With thousands of satellites on orbit at all of those satellites or to target them all. The other benefit just how agile and quickly they can So as Russia has sought to jam Starlink, they've been updates on the fly to mitigate the effect of that But SpaceX has expressed reservations about how its specifically to coordinate drone strikes. During a conference in Washington, D.C. in February 2023, SpaceX president and COO Gwynne company had been, &quot;really pleased to be able to fight for freedom,&quot; she emphasized that Starlink &quot;was Questions about Starlink's and Elon Musk's outsized revealed that in September 2022, the SpaceX CEO had officials to turn on Starlink service in Crimea, which Russian naval fleet. According to the author of a recent biography about he was worried that a Ukrainian attack on Russian a nuclear war. The magnitude of his influence is not At one point, the SpaceX CEO wrote, &quot;Between Tesla, real-time global economic data in one head than anyone I think what's important to remember about the use of was not a contract signed with the government or with Department of Defense, so there weren't necessarily meet for the government customer. In June 2023, the Department of Defense did sign a Ukraine. SpaceX has also won a Department of Defense $70 million to make a military-specific version of Seeing the influence Musk's Starlink may have on invest in their own satellite networks. The European Union has said that it will contribute expected to reach full capacity by 2027. China is building out its own low Earth orbit clear that it didn't want Starlink services being Taiwan, wary of Musk's ties to China through his other proprietary satellite network to help shield the SpaceX has said that it eventually wants to launch as Competitors including Amazon, Eutelsat OneWeb and And that's not even counting the several nations The concern of the astronomical community is mainly due very numerous. We are moving from the 2,200 satellite three years ago in orbit to something that will be 100,000 satellites. So for most of the time during the night, these And so they are visible in the sky and they interfere that the astronomers take for their research. This image, taken from a telescope in Chile in November The telescope, meant to see images of distant stars Starlink satellites. Observations from the Hubble Space Telescope, long also been affected. Benvenuti says SpaceX has been responsive to concerns He points to several design changes SpaceX made to its needs to be done. The final solution is to know exactly, for every the sky at any time from any observer. And so we are working with the companies to have this service that can be used by any observer, and they satellite is crossing their field of view, and they that this disturbance is avoided. Satellites also pose a threat to radio astronomy. The interference to the radio observation is a very because this satellite are there to transmit ground in microwaves. So the only solution is to switch off the transmission satellite is in view of one of the large radio So what we are trying to do now is to negotiate with switch off the transmission when they are over these The massive number of anticipated satellites has also experts worry may eventually render large parts of And then there's the potential risk to people on Earth In the past, SpaceX has said the lifetime of a satellites must be frequently replaced to maintain A recent report by the Federal Aviation licenses for satellites in the U.S., and nonprofit that by 2035, Starlink satellites would account for ground from falling space junk. The report went on to say that by 2035, if Starlink before falling back to Earth as designed, the FAA injured every two years as a result of Starlink In a letter dated October 9th, 2023, SpaceX disputed on &quot;a deeply flawed analysis that falsely Starlink.&quot; The letter went on to say that a lack of outdated data contributed to &quot;distorted analysis that unjustified, and inaccurate claims regarding Starlink aviation,&quot; and requested that the FAA &quot;correct its SpaceX's response to the FAA analysis really centered underlying the report, and pointed to the fact that satellites that were not Starlink, but also that the that Starlink satellites completely burn up when they The FAA declined CNBC's request for an interview, and Benvenuti says that while he doesn't believe that anyone, he does have some environmental concerns. The chemical composition of these satellite that the higher atmosphere. What would be the effect of that is not known and is So the impact on the space environment should be fully low Earth orbit with such a large number of There's no question that Starlink has grown a But whether SpaceX can keep up this pace remains to be The pace of growth that Starlink has exhibited will be forward, and for a couple of reasons. On the first end, there's a certain degree of demand after the service was introduced and now it's been two terms of the subscribers who are most desperate for a Starlink. We've also seen evidence that Starlink is by reducing the cost of its user terminals. It's run promotions where its baseline costs in the of about $600 for the equipment have been reduced to Canada, in rural areas. And the same has been done in Australia and Japan, for Starlink's success, many believe, is closely tied to SpaceX hopes to use the massive next-generation satellites. But development of the rocket has hit a In order for SpaceX to keep Starlink on that hockey the company needs Starship to begin flying. Starship is a much larger and more powerful rocket Starlink satellites into orbit, which are its Falcon 9 To meet both the expansion of the network by launching replace aging satellites over time, SpaceX needs be able to meet that overall growth trajectory. Competition in the consumer satellite internet market One service that's expected to be a big challenger is its satellite prototypes in October. Amazon plans to begin beta testing its network with Amazon is adopting a similar approach in terms of its certain extent, launching them themselves through an making their own user terminals and leveraging their equipment and services remotely to the same swath of In the future, you will see much more of these types of internet systems. It provides a tremendous amount of flexibility and just for national security, but to connect that don't have that kind of connectivity today.