They regenerate every part of their body part will regenerate everything that's every, everything. And by the way, their memories, immortal. If we understood how this works, other people in the field are studying Welcome to Target Cancer Podcast. My name is Dr. hematologist oncologist and I'm just gonna speed it might be the person that was the that I have spoken to. His name is Dr. Michael cellular regeneration, and that's intentionally biology department and Vannevar Bush chair at regenerative and developmental biology. And with this whole concept of though the blueprint over time. And he talks about why the flatworm. grail of what we try and hope to achieve as human central nervous disease, but also in cancer. The cancer from a DNA level or cellular injury, our bodies and all of these different areas, and that communication or harmony that Dr. Levin, I hope I can call you Mike. I am beyond Sure. Yeah. Call me Mike. Very happy You were telling us, and earlier on our pre-call but really you were using this term hardware and When we talk about genome, we're talking about that help us orchestrate in a very dynamic second everything that's supposed to happen or on that a little bit more just so we can correct So let's work backwards to ask ourselves what cancer? And I sometimes give a talk called, why don't get cancer is because the ar, the way that is doing something. Let's say you've got a robot but the parts themselves are passive. have goals of their own, and therefore they of the whole. Okay. They never go off and do They adapt Adapt is a funny word because that sounds like We're talking about this idea that the living has a kind of computational goal-directed activity your tissues trying to do various things, but so that computation that individual cells are doing goals like building whole organs, maintaining But that means that occasionally that process happens is that individual cells will disconnect and mechanical network that keeps all of collective intelligence of maintaining large-scale it's because they disconnect from that network made of single cells. The single cells used to they became multicellular. And so what happens back to a kind of ancient single cell lifestyle to... meaning every single cell wants to become and food is plentiful and so on. And so this is treating the rest of the body as just external world when they're all connected into this the outside world is out, is out there. When that boundary shrinks to just the level of a single. So light cone. It's literally this the scale of the a little unicellular goals, which is just to as they're concerned, the rest of the body is just the organism anymore. And so this is where we get in any way, and this is not a controversial thing. it enough. The DNA in no way codes for the actual genome is not a description of the organs you're relative to each other, how they grow, what they If you actually read the genome, what you see is to make the tiniest level hardware that every Now that hardware is amazing because when every to do all of the gold directed computations that kinds of activities but more importantly, to that then ends up building the various organs in blueprint but that blueprint arises from the that collective intelligence of cells. It is, that the hardware software analogy is actually pretty Thinking about living things as computers, and most of what's interesting about biology. That's is good about this computer analogy is that it you know about the hardware. And so if you have where you wanted to get it to do something good in the silicon? You might, if you were a CPU do that, but the vast majority of powerful place by altering the properties of the copper that's in there, they take place at the level native intelligence of the machine. The interface algorithm that makes. That makes the electrons in my claim is just very simple that for certain low cancers that are caused by very specific mutation, level maybe. But for the vast majority of we shouldn't be focusing on the hardware anymore should be focusing on the native intelligence of that intelligence to push it towards specific maintaining us against against aging and so on. That's sound s amazing. I'm like healing a cut. it's like you have your skin, you have your ever asked the question, how is that cut healing, basically the tissue so that you can cover macro example of all of the dynamic processes and now I'm gonna give you a nudge. You need to do example, maybe we haven't talked about this we talk about a stem cell, everyone on my social meaning pluripotent. It's more or less it has all their exomes but it's ready and I was explaining the auto transplant, which basically means for Which means your own cells. With an auto, When you stem cell and it goes down to a blast. And then it into the lymphocytic blast. And then even further you see plasma cells. So I'm like, look, Myeloma So I'm like, I don't need to go way up here to just stop it here because we're talking about the differentiate itself. That's when we use these Differentiated? Differentiated. You can recognize of, family they belong to, as you were saying in which direction they came. So there's that cancer level, but the question has to be asked. the hardware, but please don't make a mistake on this direction. What is that? Is that divinity? a whole bunch of very powerful people that are part in a hardware fashion to be able to then embryo and all those little things and then that And we were just a whole bunch of ingrates that concept on these, they're, they. Is it inherent? and memories twice. In Siddhartha Mukherjee smart and they don't have, which I know, he was chemo. It's not like they're like, Ooh, this is a I'm actually not sure that's I'm actually not sure that's true. I said, Because the physiology and all these elements cell is basically going back into the hardware and Like that. Those are, these are the signals we're about exosomes. Exosomes, the sweat. And almost specific environment. So if you have something in cause I understood it, that's just one little totally blind I could see what's happening in here these things I'm able to collect outside of the most accurate example that I can make, but what I loved the example that you said. And this but if you've seen Avatar, you see all of a sudden together and these things happen and everything's one cell stops. And it stops caring about what ideal way for whatever its purpose, and instead level. This is the one, part of the military fibrillation. Everything is beautifully related. not to be too fast, and they're listening to happens in, in atrial fibrillation. That cell and I'm just gonna go with my inherent signal. And there's a whole bunch of things that cause things that you're looking at to say, how can into that macro environment or is the answer, if you could take out the one cell before it's you just gotta get it out because it'll Okay. A few things. First going all the way wound in the skin. So the more amazing example things like an salamander, right? If salamander it might be at the wrist, it might be at the grow a perfect replacement for that limb. And in gonna stop. When do they stop? They stop when that's when they stop. And so we see but the body and some animals are much better at deer can regenerate antlers and so on but if the body is deviated from the normal. The then they stop when the error is very low. They know the set point. The set point is the the individual cells don't know the pattern, group groups of cells can make decisions in our brains, we wear are a bag of neurons. And these neurons work together to know right? So you and I know things that exact same thing happens in the body. Collections they will try to reproduce upon damage. And The second thing has to do with the.. How you communicate? I'm getting to that. Yeah, I'm getting to that. Okay. So the second thing I wanted to say about the stem as the building blocks of whatever you're going a stem cell becomes a particular type of cell. interested in is three dimensional structure. It's the wrong pattern, because that's a teratoma. You You want a healthy organ, you want a healthy if I said, here, I've got this brick that can turn a pile of these in your front yard. All good, you've got the parts. Yeah, that's great. But And so it's not just about the stem cells, it's to work together towards specific patterns. where does this pattern come from? So the what probably 20 years, is that The way that this patterns and measures the error relative to those re and things like that is exactly the same way allow you to pursue goals and and measure error Electricity so all of these cells make electrical can compute because all of neuroscience is built built on that. Electrical networks are very good implementing behavior towards specific outcomes. every cell in your body, not just your neurons, electrical information. And when they're connected able to process information and keep memories that literally the shape of your body. Now we have the tools that allow you to physically see we have these compounds. They're fluorescent thing you can do is you can bathe your embryo or done all this in these dyes, and you can literally holding as what the correct pattern is. And we can injury, and for cancer. Defects in that pattern. learn to figure out how you correct that pattern. build the appropriate thing. And so we've done a we can induce hu we can put in human oncogenes process, so let's say a nasty KRAS mutation or thing that happens when that. And there are many mutation for sure but it's real easy to do this that happens is that these cells electrically they disconnect from their neighbors, they're back bi billion year ago, years ago. They basically connected to anything. Their boundary is just is just environment or the rest of the animal is what is that they disconnect and they metastasize can do is and we've shown this in the Frog model, What you can do is artificially alter the This is not done by applied electric fields. no magnets, no radiation, nothing like that. exploiting hijacking the electrical interface. Because that's how evolution builds bodies in interface by which other cells tell it what to didn't exist, there wouldn't be a multicellular Does this is apply to even like air and humidity, like everything that our ourselves are relation? Electric relationships with the No. I'm talking about, I'm cells. Have individual cells have which allows them to communicate And by electrically you mean pardon my ignorance The pro, not so much electrons, that. I'm not sure about that but. The sodium potassium chloride, these Oh, okay. Yeah. And, but it's literally, that is electricity. And that voltage can be 70 millivolts. how they communicate with each other. It, it As in our brain. We already have a precedent networks in our brain process information, store Yeah. Okay. So what happens is that we can actually see computational platforms, meaning computer programs okay, in order to turn that into the to do. What do you need to do? You need to so there may be potassium channels, and so you can open and close some of to open and close, and that would bring Connection with the whole network. And so we've can suppress tumors, we can normalize existing one paper on glioblastoma and a couple papers on Oudin that where we're using these tools to is not about. Let's be clear, this is not about We are not trying to kill them. As you said, it we could get rid of that. That's great. But So what we're doing is we're not trying repair the DNA. So the in the case of the but the DNA isn't what drives the outcome is they should be doing? Meaning having an ameba or should they be working in a group So what I was gonna say was like, isn't the same it means like unregulated cell growth and that harmonious environment or that I wanna leave a commune. I wanna go do things on come back and get back into the same habits, at first, I was like probably what happens, that network, then all of a sudden it just gets very bad. But it sounds like what you're saying when they get filed back in line, get that they actually can, they differentiate from somehow differentiate back into nice, like the It's not just that they are now re-identified and behave themselves and stop being so unbridled Yeah. So in our frog work, that's exactly off by their neighbors. They go back and they normal uh, muscle, kidney, whatever. They Oh my. Because it is not about differentiating it, the behavior of the cell is guided by the brought into line by their neighbors in the thing. Whether that's possible in GBM time partial normalization of human GBM in vitro. to see if this will work in vivo. I don't know. is gonna be possible. There are animals that do have a tumor in a salamander and you trigger really strong process of error minimization on the tumor. It turns into normal tissue. The same and the same thing in embryos, right? So mouse cells that are injected into them. So there's a in cancer is not the hardware, although sometimes collectivity. It's the dysregulation of having a particular anatomical outcome. Now, there is a, that you mentioned about leaving, leaving leave the commune if you have your own independent you can say should I leave this commune? You life here? And should I leave? What the what? What an electrical network that basically binds them individual cells in the body, healthy individual they are electrically coupled to their na, so to speak. And so a healthy cell cannot leave There's nothing to leave and there's no one to goals basically. But when that process breaks down Because it's not very well connected to its wow, I'd be better off over there. So I'm out of else. You mentioned somebody else, you had selected for resistance to chemo are not wanna push back on that. Okay. They're not no cell is sitting there saying, wow, that's I'd like to not do that. Yeah, I'd like to not do that. So it is long been known that evolution is very creatures being evolved. There's, there selection plays out when your when your creatures absolutely make decision. They have memories of capacity going forward. Many cells starting human cells have it too. Lots and lots of work also called diverse intelligence. And to themselves in the light of stressors such as computational pathways that they have are, is, are how they get selected. I think that's that's a type of evolution, intelligence absolutely shapes in my lab we've developed a few examples of this. not passive agents. They are smart, they're I have, bro, I have so many questions. Okay, a la carte. You can pick and choose the three this is better than espresso. I'm okay. this is one question. How does this whole Lynch syndrome and all these things, as well as damage and, smoked meats or bad and alcohol, et the, basically the breakdown or the escape from That's one question. And then the second question, very beautifully and almost embarrassed, but different things in the exome. But you've used I know how to store something in hardware on a landscape was prior in that salamander and be able it here. Like what? Did it store it in a protein? beginning, like baseline questions. The third one, of yours, which is how are you going in and just How are you actually influencing the electrical Yeah. So pick your poison. Avoiding DNA damage is really smart. Even though, I've emphasized the physiology, the bioelectric to be optimal if your hardware is bad. So yes, iron anymore. But at the same time, if your it's very unlikely that you're going to get a good every cell gets. And it is in everybody's interest That's not the whole story. There will still be to do with DNA damage. So stress and various kinds metastatic melanoma in a frog. With no genetic just a very subtle bioelectrical disruption of one melanoma. So it doesn't guarantee, keeping But it's a good ingredient. It's a key ingredient It's like having, it's yeah, sorry. You wanna in the 2000's is Trojan horse virus school and we're like, oh, we'll just wipe like somehow the virus is still there. That's fundamentally problematic thing. And so that is Yeah. If you have a mutation in this, in the to each other. You're going to have serious they can push back and overcome that. And we and overcome some genetic defects, but you don't having a problem with the Wait, should I be hydrating better? With that I.. Did you have any role? Look I'm not an MD. I have no don't, nobody should be listening to me about And stay dehydrated constantly. Like con I don't I think you should, but not specifically because Again, I'm not an MD. I can't tell anybody how person. Have learned that my, my dehydration and and it's got nothing to do with bioelectric. For do this? So again, let's keep in mind what specific bioelectrical states, meaning correct do by taking advantage of the interface that every proteins as these little proteins that sit on the batteries to let to let current in and out. To and so on. So the way we interface, the way we drugs. There's also some stuff we can do with laboratory. It's not really for clinical use, I all drugs are actually ion channel drugs, meaning to hit various ion channels and turn them on and for various cardiac disorders all kinds of things. what we're doing is we call them electroceuticals, which drugs to to use, at what time, you could basically playing it like a piano to get the you need a software to help you figure out how AI tools to help us choose those drugs. And the cells are small doesn't matter because basically in our application so far, we soak the Systemic drugs. Systemic drugs. Is it?. I'm gonna say something that I hope which would be an hour for a normal human. Is it when a heart is in a bad rhythm and you do the you're trying to reset the polarization there's not this beautiful cascade having the essay node beats, that's what the EKG shockers. Yeah. Is it similar No it's a good point because the thing that you are not committing and maybe long term, of the immediate act of applying that stimulus, you You are not at that moment saying, oh man, I bunch of potassium that way, and then I need That's not what you're doing. You're saying if it will take it from there. The normal rhythm what you're exploiting is that you are working, you're working with a material that actually knows direction and then it will take over from there. which is that we are not saying that, ah, from how it's gonna be expressed. No, we're assuming we need to do is they the network already it built all of the organs and all of the parts from which it's going to take over again the exact same goal is how we do regenerative growing back limbs and eyes and things like you're going to micromanage every stem cell and all. The goal is: I'm going to push these cells what we know the collective already knows how Yeah, exactly. So that's why when try the to reshot the heart because you if you have atrial. There are instances when rogue and doing its own inherent pulsing. Yep. Yep. And then when it fails is when basically re breaks itself out of that Yeah. And some of these things are hardware damaged or some problems like that, but some in nature. There is nothing hardware wrong. there's an epilepsy in the brain, there's a somewhere you have a piece of brain tissue there's actually, it's mirrored in another part of it. It's a physiological, it's a physiological also a notion of cardiac memory actually. So which is this idea that when you you just remember that the tissue remembers not because there's anything wrong with the memory. And it can be towards the right thing. that not all problems and probably, I would guess problems. There are some. There are some genetic some metabolic enzyme. That's it, that's issues of medicine are gonna boil down to these is going to be retraining of the tissue. It This is a great, so I try to debunk it just makes me like very worried and sad don't get screened because they're like, I point you're just talking about hardware stuff, and it's not due in inherited or something like it's that kind of error. And I always said a hundred percent, but I suggested that you get that is what spits off into cancer. Now like I've that it could be contributor, but really it's this like it's just that. Is there a correlation though electrical autonomy or independence over time? look what happens in cancer incidents in eighties. The older you live, there's more cancer. mutational, antioxidant issue. Is there a that the electrical escape would be more with Yeah. Yeah. That, that part is still largely the loss of that regenerative ability with age and of these bioelectrical patterns could be due to, I wanna, I want to close, I'm gonna have to go just one example that I think should serve as future. We work with an animal called a flatworm. We're humans. Yeah. We're all built mostly of are telling us is what's actually possible. Anything that, that is possible, phy, with technology. So I firmly believe this is with this worm they regenerate every into pieces and every part will regenerate Including.. Continue, including the brain, the head, every the way, their memories. So when their brain discovered in the sixties and then we confirmed so they regenerate every part of their body. are immortal, okay? They do not age. So there's they just continuously re re regenerate we now know it is known that you can be an injury. Does not age and resists cancer. It understood how this works and that's what we are studying this. If we understood how this works, Makes it conceivable because it exists. Because it exists that we know it's possible to they can learn things and they have a, they and I have. They're a complex creature. We do this with a really messy genome. Every cell their genome is a complete mess. And it would is but it's not because they have this pristine all it's because they are their cells are masters kinds of noisy hardware, they have evolved to that reason the algorithm is now so good they can Why is this not a Stephen King Netflix like I always thought of cockroach as one of those because they just hang around. That's wild. 2 do you know if there's anything about calcium kind of mess up our sodiums and our calcium levels is there any relation at least, cause I can take modern meds. That, that actually affects on The only risks will be for embryos. So if may be teratogenic depending on the embryo. If the risks are generally far outweighed by They're not what's messing with thing that you're obviously studying your life. For an adult human. If you have a cardiac or sodium drug your cardiac issues way worse than anything that's for an but for an adult, this is absolutely not a Yeah, no, yeah. I wasn't trying to make are you regenerating limbs in your Have you regenerated on humans and not telling. No, I'm doing none of this in my house. in a laboratory at the Tufts University Inc. We are not regenerating human in mice. We've done it in frogs. We've we're taking that technology and working on in human patients someday. We're not ready. We very early basic science. And we are pushing Our liver does it right? Our liver the only thing really in the human human Kids who will get their fingertips chopped off, Thank you so much. I appreciate it. Good to talk to you. All right. Thanks. Bye-bye. Yeah, bye.