One of Yogananda's early disciples was named Brahmacharini Radhalila She was a person with a very strong personality and she frequently would say during the last years of her life, &quot;One day I am going to write a book called 'The Real Yogananda.'&quot; And she was living at the SRF headquarters and everyone would panic at the thought of what she might write. Because she was the type of person she was. And also because they wished that a public image of Yogananda be created that would supposedly fit in with people's spiritual ideas and just also with the image, as I say, that they wanted people to have of him. So there are a lot of stories that people have never heard, because of the intention that Yogananda be sort of a cross between Saint Francis and Saint Teresa of Avila, rather than the very unique personality that Yogananda had. So here are some things that were told to me by direct disciples of Yogananda who were there when these incidents took place that you might find interesting. Some devotees were visiting here at our Monastery and one evening I just started telling these stories and here they are. I remember Bimalananda told us that for a while He was in Encinitas and they really missed being with Yoganandaji, naturally. up at Mt. Washington and he said, then the word had come and, then they said, &quot;Master's come!&quot; And they'd think, &quot;Oh boy!&quot; and they'd hurry and they'd finish their work and a whole group of them. usually then the young men, they would come underneath Yogananda's window. at Encinitas So they say, open your window, open, come to your window Come, come, we're waiting out here. Nothing, they'd keep calling...nothing. And then, when finally they thought Well, okay. He must not be in the room. And they'd start just to move to turn and leave, the window would fly open and a paper bag of water come out. and soak them all. There was one birthday, people coming and pranaming to Yoganandaji in line at the end, you know, and this man is there and was saying, &quot;You are my Guru, I know you will save me.&quot; I mean, carrying on and on, making a spectacle. Yoganandaji didn't pay any attention. And then later on, this had been in the daytime, it wasn't an evening thing. Later on the man was kind of walking around outside And Yogananda came to the window of his room. And he went to the window and said, &quot;Oh, please come and stand right down here below, There's something I want to give you.&quot; So the man was there... Sure enough, he came back with a paper bag of water and dropped it all over him. And the man never came back. There was a really pretty big tree there at Mt. Washington the headquarters, and people going up to the front door would have to go by it and Yoganandaji was behind the tree, he loved soaking people with water. Krishna did that alot. He had a hose and the water was on. And he'd wait, and when he'd hear somebody walking he wouldn't see them. He put the hose around the tree, you know, and soak them real good. And so there was another monk just standing there with him and so he heard some people coming and he did that and he hears this woman scream and he looks out and And there are these real poshy people and she's got a fur coat on and she's soaking wet and he shoves the hose into the monk's hands and says, &quot;you hold this, I gotta go!&quot; and he ran around the back of the Ashram and they came and saw the monk, and they were standing there griping at him. and Yoganandaji comes out the front and says, &quot;(gasp!) Just what happened to you?&quot; And he takes them in. You see, he did things like this. See, often on Sundays You know, it had been a hotel, Mt. Washington they had a lot of sofas and things, Faith said, you know, Master, when he was in the mood, he would sit in there and visitors would come and they'd sometimes talk. She said, if somebody had a hat...you know, men used to wear those hats. all the time when I was a kid and said, he'd take it and mess it up and he'd stick it on his head and he'd start staggering around and he would play he was drunk and he'd go through... and, she said, we would just laugh and laugh and laugh and he'd (slurring talk) talk to people. And she said it was just the funniest thing imaginable. Bimalananda told me himself, he said one time around Christmas-time Master took a bunch of the monks to some big department store in L.A., and they had three pretty big-sized tricycles You know about this? So, he said, for three hours Master rode this all around this big department store, jinging the bell jinging the bell at people. (Confused talk) Who told you this?... Bimalananda. And he said, of course, you know, the real disciples were good But the others were like... Well, you know, I can tell you two interesting stories. One time he went into a store I expect you've heard about it, Somewhere, I guess it was in L.A., He was with some of the monks and he went into this store and he said, I want all your money. but they didn't have much, but they took all their money and what Master had and he spent it all in that store. So the man cried and when they got out in the car, Yogananda said Do you know that man had no money at all? He and his family didn't even have anything to eat. And because we came here today, they're going to have something to eat and a little more for the future. Okay. Well, let me tell you another one. He said to most of the nuns, we're going to Encinitas, and I want you to make a good impression. So I want you to wear suits (women did in those days), and I want you to have your hair fixed, and I want you to look really impressive So they did, and, I mean, there were a lot of them There were 3 or 4 carloads and they were all jammed together. So there they were, all fixed up, going to Encinitas, ...there wasn't any particular event... So he said, on the way to Encinitas, there was a man selling watermelons out of a truck, so Master... I think Mira told this, I mean I heard it from one of the ones involved and anyway, so he had him cut the watermelon, ...they were those great big things... in quarters, and he gave each one a quarter, and he said, now go stand and I want your feet touching the concrete, go stand at the highway, imagine, 66 and the cars are going by and, he said, I want your feet touching the concrete, now you eat that watermelon. So here are these women their hair is all permed, and they got their fancy clothes and everything, and they're here and ...imagine the juice is all running... And they did it. And then they went on to Encinitas, kind of looking like wrecks So anyway, when they got there, the master said, that man had nothing. that was selling the watermelons and because we bought those watermelons and you ate them, as you may remember... In fact, he said, Do you remember the man that was selling the watermelons? ...a very rhetorical question... and that was it. He did that. Do you know why Master never drove a car after a while? he was a speed demon! When he first came to California... See, Master really was, basically, a Ramakrishna Mission Swami on a certain level In other words, the great influence in his life till he met Sri Yukteswar was Mahendranath Gupta who wrote The Gospel of Sri Ramakrishna. And I mean he spent hours and hours and days and days with him. Although Vivekananda is the famous one, the real spiritual son, The more perfect image of Sri Ramakrishna was Swami Brahamananda, I don't know if you ever heard of him. And Yoganandaji would go to Belur Math, and Brahmanandaji would always say, Mukunda is one of us. And if you really, when you go to the lessons and all the Parables and everything, the lessons, they all come from Sri Ramakrishna. It's quite amazing. So you see, there was a young man, he was only 18 years old, And Vivekananda gave him sannyasa and gave him the name Paramananda. You know about Swami Paramananda? And that most beautiful Anandashram, the most beautiful ashram I have ever seen in America. He was a very quiet, indrawn, very gentle person But he made this really beautiful place, a lot of people came there He had an ashram in Boston, just called the Boston Vedanta Center, And then Cohasset, which still exists, but he went out there and started Anandashram. And it was built, so then when Master went out to California, he stayed at Anandashram with Paramananda, because they were good friends. And, first of all, he had to have had problems with dye, I had a problem one time where I went to Mother's [Anandamayi Ma's] 75th birthday and the Putnam Dye people told me if you mix this and mix that, you'll get a true gerua color and it came out RED! and we had to wear them. So we showed up in India in red like a tantric, you know, so I don't know who'd done the dye, but Master had red clothes, red, you know, silk red, and a turban, and everything, and he had, of course, a Ford car, and so the nuns would...remember they were, you know... some people are, you know, they're just kind of like little mice... and they'd say, &quot;A Paramahansa, indeed!&quot; &quot;We remember when he lived here, he broke the speed limit all the time!&quot; Apparently he'd get in the car and gun it and go rrrroarrrr through the gate. And he would do this, and of course he was wearing the red clothes! So they were all, they were very disapproving. Except for Paramananda's real disciples who revered Master. But the hangers-on... well anyway, Master really did, He floored it and he (whoosh sound). So one time Master came virtually head-on to a little old rickety truck, driven by some Mexicans, have a ton of kids and the kids were in the back, you know, of the bed, and he was going to hit them. I'm trying to think who told me this, again, it was one of the disciples. And Master realized he was going to hit them and he said &quot;Mother, I won't drive again if they're alright.&quot; and he hit them -CRASH- and these kids went every which way and so on and they were totally unhurt, completely. So Master never drove from then on. But until then, I remember Sister Durga saying &quot;Oh, when Master got behind the wheel!...&quot; I know a Mrinalini thing...Mrinalini was there, One time Master was really late for a Sunday lecture. And it was supposed to start in something like, hardly 10 minutes, and they were at Mount Washington, and they had to get down into Hollywood, And so, they started down and they pulled out on the freeway and Master said, &quot;Everybody close your eyes and that's you too.&quot; ...to the DRIVER! Literally. Durga was in the car. And they all closed their eyes and in just a moment Master said, &quot;Open them,&quot; and they were pulling up front.