Well, folks, here we are again. It's holiday means you're going to be confronted with all kinds and, let's be honest, well beyond that. Now, to be true, and some of them are going to you toss that deal in your cart, and when Welcome back, everyone. I'm Caleb Denison, section of this video at the very end that you get that TV you've been having a hard Also, I'm not going to try to convince you that But I am going to try to convince you that Now, before you pull the trigger on a TV you should definitely watch this video. Let me start by saying that I get it. When you see a 50-inch TV selling for $100 or a that's so cheap it's easy to start thinking of Some of you have been thinking it would be cool been wanting a cheap TV that you could mount or pool. Perhaps you have an ADU, like a guest maybe you've been looking at getting a TV for as long as you can see the game or Anecdotally, I put a little 32-inch TV into the ago, and sometimes I think it would be fun to these ultra-inexpensive 50-inch-plus options are Now, I agree--these scenarios make sense I also think we should talk about at least when we just need to confront spending Then, after that, I want to have a conversation about what you should think about you'll be using often--like your living room place where having at least good-enough This, my friends, is my gift to you this when it is easier than ever to spend money in the going to bring you some long-term joy. Yep, it's because I've been there myself and made So, let's talk about cheap TVs. If you've ever worked in retail, with the term loss leader. Loss leaders are where you're likely to also The loss leader product is meaning the retailer doesn't make a dime on they know it's going to get you in you're going to buy high-margin stuff like socks, Loss-leader TVs aren't necessarily terrible that's because every retailer is in competition behooves them to come up with a highly attractive They'll usually pick a TV that already has a a cheap TV in the truest sense of the word cheap. to the processor to the speakers to the stand and And while it does make a picture, that picture is that the product is basically disposable. I mean, it was only $100, maybe $150. You're to give this TV a bad review because So, like I said earlier, I'm not saying these &quot;Under no circumstances should you ever buy one.&quot; I just want you to know what I encourage you to think about this actual lines outside--or inside--a store. be very good. The sound it puts out worst of all, there's a high probability Now, if you're okay with all that--no judgment from garage TV you want--one you just don't care about. you need, go for it. If you're okay replacing it I don't love what that means the point is to have a conversation with Just consider the fact that spending around sizes is going to get you a much better longer. Personally, I'd rather buy a $400 TV and better build quality once every four years So, with all that cheap TV talk out of the you're actually going to use every day. The after a tough day at work and unwind. The one your friends are going to watch when they come always bring--that you really hate but pretend And friends don't let bad pasta salad get in the What? I know that's not just me. for you--I don't know--but you know that's true. Wait, what? What were we talking Guys, I'm going to keep it real no matter how unbelievable the price may be. you feel like that $500 deal is just too good to Relax. Don't do it when you want to get to You know that song is now stuck in your programming you. You just got programmed. You may hate me now, but you're going to thank me and you'll be reminded about Look, if 2020 taught us anything at all, and you never know when you're going to of the stuff that you value--the stuff Now, a TV is a commodity, but it can also be a to do a little research first. I know a guy who about the best models at a bunch of different Hey, that's me! But look, there are a bunch of others internet who aren't just regurgitating a high-traffic SEO list. We actually know what's in the box before you buy? Imagine how much more excited you'll be set it up for the first time, knowing you are better than biting your nails for a few I'll answer that for you: Yes, it is much better. Now, here comes the section of the video If you've done all the research and you're other to sign off on this big-ticket buy, go get them and show them the Okay, trust me. Hey, I'm Caleb, and I'm a TV and tech a significant amount of time learning how to find a TV that will meet your needs, We've talked about everything from what kind and how to get the most bang for your buck. But here's the most important thing: the fact that this face and listening to this voice means they And this may not be apparent, but it's not been been thinking more about your excitement and no doubt they are excited too, but I know have your support, that's going So, take that for what it's worth. I'm not going want to let you know that what I know about your when it comes to something that is ultimately a They would not be watching So, if you're in a crowded store right they have an itchy finger over the And hey, I hope you guys love your new TV. Thanks so much for watching, everyone. subscribe--all that good stuff. But if you did, here are two other videos that I think are a And we'll see you on the next one. Come on, Caleb. Come on, dude.