Allow me to ask you a question: "If you you go?" Look across the crater-pocked, dust strewn There are mountains and craters here, scientific shadows. But without the proper map, it would be easy our closest celestial neighbour. Fortunately for us, for a decade and a half, - has been compiling just such a map. In ways never seen before it has imaged the learn more about the Moon's ever-evolving With over 8 billion different measurements the most thoroughly measured of any other has given us the tools we need to perhaps What did it find? And given that the Moon is an object you've sky throughout the course of your life, it's it? I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching And in this LRO supercut, we will explore landmarks imaged by the LRO throughout its The LRO has been scanning the Moon's surface It's equipped with a powerful camera, capable sends to NASA's Planetary Data System. The LRO can send up to 155 gigabytes of data By comparison, New Horizons took a full two flyby. Although the LRO was launched over a decade constantly learning new things about the lunar and topographic mapping capabilities. [Let's see that camera in action. We'll start with a place rich in incredible This oblique angle shot [of Jackson Crater is on the far side of the Moon. A bit like Tycho crater on the near side of system stretching over 1000km. Ray systems form when particularly fine material their formation is still being studied. Jackson crater itself is about 70km in diameter, as can be seen by its terraced walls and uplift This crater is actually tilted, the east of west side is only 3000m high. The base of the crater has an elevation of that was pushed up from another 1000m down! Some of the dark patches you see along the in the sky, but there also are sections of lighter coloured ground. Although, it's not as light as this image Your viewing angle and the angle of the Sun the lunar surface. Focus here on the central peak in this image. We'll now switch to a top-down perspective of the lunar day. Suddenly, the crater basin and the tip of before. But a side-by-side comparison does show how both pictures. And that's not the only optical illusion Have a close look at this image. What does it appear like to you? Are these regions of inverted bubbles, or than the wiggly textured material surrounding Well, for the longest time, I could only see But maybe if you look around the image, suddenly What type of image did you see first? Are you like me and need proof it's not Well, have a look at the same region but from Seeing it like this makes me wonder how I This is a small region on the Moon called It's only 2-3km wide, and 64m deep, and formed. It's one of several similar regions on the To a certain degree, a similar optical illusion Do you see domes here, or craters? Sometimes rotating the picture can help get That's why the LRO is so useful in my opinion, perspectives too! Moving on to another unusual lunar region, This crater would be pretty normal by lunar has huge fracture lines running across the Komarov crater itself is even bigger than Meaning these are up to 500m deep and 2.5km It is believed that 2.6 billion years ago, amounts of pressure to fracture the crust; it to the surface, meaning the fractures were ever since. But although it didn't happen in this instance, through and pooling on the surface. One such example can be found west of Plato the north of the Moon, visible with a telescope This image has a few rather spectacular points this channel which cuts through the ground. This section here is a lava vent, back when Running out of the vent, in a southwesterly a rille. These are channels cut out by lava melting like a river on Earth. To the east in this image, we see the crater Plato itself was likely filled with lava at than the regions northwards. However, in this image we can see that a huge crater wall, creating a 24km wide slump block! In other words, this section was once connected collapsed under its own weight, breaking away [For now,] let's have a look at one more This breathtaking view is from the Apollo Aristarchus is seen towards the north west 40km across, it's bright enough to be seen From Apollo's viewpoint, we can see a really Surrounding it are more rilles and lava vents, away from the centre. From this angle, with the shadow extruding this crater is. This complex crater has prominent crater walls; pretty small. From LRO's perspective, we have a much higher we can have a close examination of the walls The walls are similar in appearance to Jackson the crater's centre reveals some major differences. Not only is the peak much smaller, it also crust that would have otherwise been hidden The base of the crater was also likely to by the impactor. Fracture lines from rapid cooling are evident the crater base, you can easily imagine how [For a place that's so grey, colour on the This area is known as Montes Carpatus, and variations in contrast again. Generally speaking, looking at darker regions also indicates what the material is comprised The darkest regions in this image are thought over three billion years ago. Lava would have also flown down through valleys Also sprinkling the surface are white dots; white as they are a lot more fresh than the hasn't had an opportunity to darken them The Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter, unlike the ability to be able to take photos from an This means we are able to view the mountains which gives us a better sense of height and Although, our sense of scale is already seriously to help us judge how high or far away something For instance, we can tell the background here atmosphere makes the mountains quite hazy. Also, we can see the town, some trees, all object is that we are looking at. But on the moon we don't have any of that, Just looking at this image, how big would How wide is the foreground in this image? It would be fun to see your guesses in the But, perhaps surprisingly, the foreground and the foreground mountain is nearly 7km These two peaks at the back are a massive Surprisingly, these peaks aren't named like size. The best way to kind of get a sense of scale NASA has released called Quickmap, where you a topographical map. [I'll leave a link in the description below Here's the mountain in the foreground of You'll also notice that these peaks are Pretty much all of the mountains we will look centres of craters. Including these ones found in the famous Copernicus When craters form, we all tend to think of have uplift in the centre. Surprisingly enough, this is not predominantly a pool of water, or elastic rebound, where That only happens with material with elastic shape. Rather, craters have uplift in the centre revert to a gravitational equilibrium. Copernicus crater can easily be seen on the and as a result is one of the moon's most These mountains in the centre look impressive, floor. Zooming out a bit, and you can see how dwarfed reaching 4000m above the crater floor. Here's the crater from another angle, and of this crater is lumpy, but comparatively This is because after the massive impact that lava which eventually solidified. Moving on to a new location on the moon, we range of 3-5km high mountains found at the the whole solar system; the Imbrium Basin, These mountains look interesting next to this rille, kind of like a gorge found on the moon. But apart from being a very interesting view, It is in fact where the Apollo 15 mission a ground perspective to these mountains. Here is the lunar module with these same mountains And from here it looks like they are so close, These actually rise about 5km high from the front above the Nepalese and Indian plains Astronauts also investigated the rille using This rille actually drops down 380m! Rille's are a bit of a mystery as it isn't One leading theory is that they are the exposed of the moon back when it was more geologically From the perspective of the Lunar Reconnaissance still be seen today, as there is no wind on So even though the Apollo mission happened the remains can still be seen in pristine It wouldn't be right to talk about some talking about the highest point! Sadly, it doesn't look too impressive as 3 degrees. [It's near one of the biggest impact craters biggest on the moon,] the Aitken Basin, which [This is where the Chang'e 4 Chinese mission was able to image!] As you can see, this crater is huge, [2500km This ejecta piled up all around the crater, point on the moon. The basin was likely caused by a low-velocity it would have been at a sharp angle as the Interestingly, the lowest point on the moon The lowest point, found at the bottom of a highest point is taller than Everest, at 10,786m! Just a side note for all those of you that the average radius of the moon with the elevation As you can see, the surface of the moon is It doesn't matter where you are on the moon, This implies that the surface is old and hasn't anytime recently; the most recent eruption ago. There are an estimated 300,000 impact craters facing us, and millions more smaller than at. The moon can have such small craters because heading for the moon will hit its surface. On Earth, most meteors burn up in the atmosphere. Just imagine how many shooting stars there Were it not for Earth's atmosphere, every What's interesting about each crater you how old a crater is by how eroded it is. Craters which appear very smooth are much surrounding them, with sharp and defined edges. The bright patches haven't had so long to But weathering on the moon? How can that be? Well, this weathering is not caused by water and intense radiation from the Sun which dull If we speed along to the end of this image, a few hundred meters across. Using LRO's narrow angle camera, we can an impact on the lunar surface. These linear patterns are the effects of the Finer dust would have been blown across the quite making it as far, although leaving a impact. The crater itself isn't super clear in this was taken, the Sun close to the horizon casting you can still see fresh exposed material along Comparing this to an old crater, here you crater, although still brighter than the heavily What I like about this image though is that from another impact off the image. Here's a boulder that landed on the crater The only thing with these top-down perspectives depth in the image. How shallow or deep can craters get? Luckily the LRO doesn't just scan the surface, too, which can definitely help us appreciate Look at this fantastic image. This crater is around 21km across, and it Again, we can see the trails left by huge bright walls implying it is a young crater, The contrasts are really quite vivid, and been liquid at some point. The impact would have initially melted the collecting in pools which have since solidified. The impactor was likely 2km in diameter, and of a bullet. That would have been some collision indeed! Another great image I have to show you is What's special about this one is its interestingly This is another example of rock melting from beyond the rim and flowing down, before solidifying If we look closely around the crater, you disturbing the ground and leaving brighter See? Once you know what you are looking at, even But these have been very pristine craters. What if a meteor lands somewhere a little Here is a crater within a crater. The impactor hit the wall of the larger crater, from a top-down perspective, it still looks Just as a side note, this image is a true Most other images of the moon are taken in prefer resolution over colour, although the of colour, and this is an example of it. But certain craters can be unconventional There's a little understood phenomenon on to explain, and that is cold patches found So far, we have really only focused on the host of other instruments onboard, including has mapped the Moon's surface temperatures. There are two thousand points on the moon when the Sun goes down. When the Sun rises on the spots again, they in with the background. The only thing these spots seem to have in They are always found around young craters But the spots themselves are much larger than Here's a heat map of the crater I was just White is the hottest parts of the image, blue As you can see, a large cool region surrounds There is an ongoing investigation to find What do you think it could be? [Speaking of cool areas, let's jump now system. It's an image I personally find] breathtaking. This crater, found near the South Pole of The Sun never rises high above the horizon stick out enough to be enveloped in light. What you are left with is a stunning contrast, This is certainly my new desktop background But this region isn't just an eerily beautiful for the future Artemis mission to the moon. The lunar South Pole is of particular importance to be millions of tonnes of water ice to be like this, forever protected from the Sun's If there is to be a future colony on the Moon, [While massive craters, pristine mountains beautiful to look at, a large part of why how well it advances our scientific understanding Let's take a look at one of these images. At first glance, it may seem unremarkable, See those two large, round depressions? Those are impact craters, much like countless But if we zoom out, we see that these craters This is Mons Gruithuisen Gamma. Look how the western side of the dome appears off its steep slope. By contrast, the western sides of the craters Shadows on the moon are so dark compared to in the atmosphere. The Moon has no atmosphere, so the only light from the lunar surface itself, which isn't It is generally very dark, with an average Directly to the dome's east is a dark shadow a sense of how tall it is. The dome is towering, with a slope of up to lunar surface. With a diameter of 20 kilometres, it's equivalent That's pretty massive! Zooming out further, we see that the dome This plain, or mare, is the result of basaltic around 4 billion years ago, resulting in the Think of it like ice cream dripping into the Zooming out further still, we see a second Gamma. This is Mons Gruithuisen Delta, and it's meters above the surrounding surface and spanning The dark basalt plain that surrounds both - Oceanus Procellarum, or "Ocean of Storms," I don't know about you, but I think "ocean" The domes look a bit like islands! It is believed that the Gruithuisen Domes, by ancient lava flows. But why did they leave these unusual structures? Believe it or not, there may be clues here This is Mount Saint Helens, an active stratovolcano Maybe you can see where I'm going with this. As you can see, it's shaped a bit like a Stratovolcanoes like this one are the result like rhyolite, dacite and andesite. Once expelled from the Earth's crust, these hardening into domelike or conical formations We suspect that the Gruithuisen Domes, like silicic material, and recent thermal measurements this theory, suggesting the domes are compositionally So, unlike the Moon's basalt lavas, which more viscous, silica-rich lavas extruded slowly, leaving the massive domes you see now. But here's where it gets strange. On Earth, stratovolcanoes like Mount Saint tectonics. At the convergence of two tectonic plates, denser material from an oceanic plate is thrust Earth's blazing hot mantle. The remelted material results in silica-rich rise. But unlike here on Earth, neither liquid water So how did these silica-rich magmas form? We're not sure! One explanation suggests that when lunar magma a residual liquid that could have been extremely The problem, however, is that this process, produce only small quantities of silicic material, a massive 27-kilometre goliath like Mons Gruithuisen A second model suggests that silicic materials rocks on the lunar surface to partially melt If this were indeed the case, then the Gruithuisen surrounding basalt plain. We don't know if this is true yet, but future and composition of these mysterious structures. To me, the most exciting part is that we may NASA plans to send a Commercial Lunar Payload This mission will explore the Moon's surface light, not just on the mysterious Gruithuisen And high-definition images taken by the LRO, will provide NASA with crucial information spot. It's exciting to imagine how this mission Moon with on-the-ground imaging and rock samples, Which of the two theories to explain the formation more plausible? I'd love to hear your ideas in the comments! [As you can see by now, not everything on For example, let's turn to this] innocuous As you can see, there are plenty of tiny craters And this crater is within another crater again. Maybe you can see where I'm going with this. Zooming out, not only are these craters in within two very nicely aligned craters. Or is that really what this is? Well, we aren't sure. Both of these craters are named as one, the This peculiar type of crater is known as a It is possible that they are the result of investigation suggests otherwise. If they were the result of chance collisions, of concentric craters across the surface of However, that is not the case. Have a look at this. The population of concentric craters actually around the edge of this region of the Moon Another factor to consider is that most of Looking for clues in the crater itself also This outer crater should be around twice as to other similar sized craters around the Now, while a few concentric craters on the impacts, the location, age and depth of most at play. One theory is that some of these impacts occurred in this region was in a state in between solid cool lava or honey. As the impact happened, it caused ripples, and never smoothed off until it was fully Although this is seen as an outside possibility. The most likely theory is that when the Moon region were pushed up from beneath by magma This would explain the shallowness of the mainly around specific points on the Moon. However, while this is the best theory we What do you think it could be? Now, apart from the occasional meteor, you changes at all. And while you are mostly right with that, move on the Moon occasionally. See if you can spot what I'm talking about This is the edge of a large 32 km wide crater along the crater wall is evidence that landslides apparently having fallen down the slope. Let's have a closer look at what's going the landslides in this crater. The material seems to originate from box canyons The material coming down here is clearly very as no individual rocks can be resolved within However the largest rocks that got dislodged the crater floor. What's interesting is that the main mass of many smaller slide masses. Look at these individual trails here. So, it probably didn't all happen at once, The slides were likely triggered by tiny meteors These tiny impacts and the subsequent landslides why the oldest types of craters on the Moon Here's another puzzle to try and solve. Here, we have the remarkable Messier Crater. Typically, craters are round, but not Messier It is elongated with a slit for a crater floor. What is going on here? The mystery continues if you zoom out a bit. Directly next to Messier Crater are two more The one on the left seems much older than away compared to the fresh impact crater on Did the newer crater just so happen to cover But let's zoom out again. What other clues can we see? Actually, a big clue are these lines coming These are called rays, and they reveal the On rounded craters, debris can go in all directions, However here, debris goes in three distinct crater and only westward from this one. So, what would cause that? Well, the answer is, an impactor striking 15 degrees. And in this particular case, it seems like three parts before it even hit the Moon's Yes, all three of these craters likely hit the "older" crater. What actually happened here is that ejecta on top of the other crater due to the low been artificially aged. There are some other really interesting aspects pond of impact melt found at the bottom of to have caved in a bit. The impact melt in the first image also appears image. It really is a fascinating set of craters. Let's have look at another asymmetrical shape it does. While it could be that this crater is also breaking up into two just before it collided is likely not the case here. Notice the shadows in this image, above and It is apparent that this crater is right on Zooming out and looking at a topographical case. In fact, this may well have been the tallest impactor came along a totally wiped it out. Imagine Everest suddenly being taken out by The shape of this crater was probably not from, but also because it hit this steep slope. It might not look that steep from the oblique there's an 8km difference in elevation from crater. In this next image, there's not too much The only thing visible in this wide expanse Sun. Why is this significant? Well, this peak is on the rim of Aepinus crater, Moon. As I mentioned, future colonies on the Moon south poles, because tucked away at the bottom are large pockets of water ice, essential Water can be used for drinking, washing, cooking, oxygen and hydrogen provides breathable air These poles also have the added benefit that in the Sun, unlike other parts of the Moon 14-Earth-days in constant darkness is not A peak like this one however, poking out in night-time, would be an ideal location for It's not a perfect solution, as peaks like in darkness depending on the time of year, other regions on the Moon where you'd get [While I'm at it, let's enjoy] a couple the far side of the Moon, found in Bhabha These are the central peaks found in the middle [Islands in the dark are an appropriate way the eyes of LRO. When it comes to space, that's all the Moon is. An island, floating through a sea of blackness, And yet in these islands, such incredible The LRO remains operational, and will continue As it carefully circles the Moon across time - new craters and impacts from asteroids, The Moon's surface is slowly evolving even And finally, once it has run its course and fall from orbit, and will contribute to the This small crater will not be as large as or weather on the Moon it will likely remain in the regolith of the orbiter that did so After all, by giving us this knowledge, it humans who will set foot on the Moon and call home.]