Today, I'm gonna share 20 things that I let go of Back in the day, when I was living in I wanted to change that, so I took a As a result, I now live a simple, What did I do? Basically, just started letting go. I'm sure you'll find something helpful, so stick around till the end :) The words my tea ceremony teacher "When placing things, do it as delicately as I used to be pretty rough with treating stuff But after I heard those words, I started not Just gently placing down a cup. Gently closing a door. Gently pushing in a chair. It was a game-changer for me. Because I realized how every daily action could Even if you're busy, just taking a moment and delicately treating things I still find myself treating things very casually, Skipping lunch Sometimes, I intentionally skip lunch. Knowing that ancient Japanese used to eat And I realized that skipping lunch No need to prepare meals. Freedom to use lunchtime however I want. Not feeling sleepy Better focus at work And good for a balanced diet There are many benefits. You might worry about feeling hungry, right? Honestly, I do feel a bit hungry. But adjusting breakfast time, having rice instead of bread for breakfast, If you're curious, give it a try! :) Bed I used to have a bed, but I got rid of it. It's not that I hate beds. But beds take up space, and So, what I do now is just lay It makes the room much simpler. Plus, putting away the mattress creates space Letting go of the bed not only simplifies the Checking the phone after waking up Some people scroll through their phones I used to check social media to see what my But I stopped doing that. Because I realized it just made me Now, I've decided that the first hour not for others on social media. I do yoga, have matcha, go for walks, &quot;How do you feel today? What do you want to do?&quot; By doing this, I allow myself to listen to my own Since applying this habit, the first hour of the morning has become So, let's stop checking the phone after Folding clothes Honestly, I wasn't good at folding laundry, so one day I decided to just stop It's not like I just leave my I just let the laundry air dry This is a method I came up with Now I can skip folding them, putting Just &quot;Wash, dry, wear&quot; Seeking happiness &quot;What is happiness?&quot; If you ask The reason I started thinking this way was A collapsed lung is a disease where sometimes leading to death. Luckily I got surgery and was OK:) But when I was in the hospital I Tubes were still inserted into my body, and At that moment, I learned how having life, being able to breathe normally, And I realized OMG! Happiness isn't Just notice it, and life will become simply happy. Using a bath towel If you want to make your room simpler, Bath towels are comfy I know, but they're large, So, I started not using bath towels. Instead of that, I use Tenugui or Moku towels. They're small, so they don't take up much space. And they are absorbent enough and dry quickly. It's perfect for traveling too. Not having bath towels simplified my life. Going to the gym I used to go to the gym when I It was good but I spent a lot of It was just that I wanted to make So, I decided to do a 5-10 minute workout. It's only 5-10 minutes, so I As a result, I've been able If you just want to stay fit, you don't Using social media apps limitlessly A lot of people want to quit I was like that too, always finding Instagram or YouTube without realizing it. So, I've started using an app called And It was super effective! I've set it to block social media during weekdays As a result, I no longer get No more wasting time by scrolling Just limiting social media apps It was eye-opening. Realizing how life becomes simpler Drinking coffee I used to drink coffee every morning But one day, I realized that coffee Instead, as you know, I switched to matcha. Since switching to matcha, my body feels great! Not only that, but matcha creates a I learned that letting go of habits that you do Staying up late If you ask me what an essential habit is for Because it is the foundation of a good rhythm. Setting a rhythm makes it So, it's important to let go of Try gradually going to bed earlier. You'll gradually feel the change in your life. Using coins You might be surprised, but in Japan, Here is a secret: when I use Because searching for coins What I do is just use the bill, collect coins in a jar and deposit them into I use that money for presents. Television Back in my student days, I was a TV addict. I'd spend two hours every day But one day, I came across a passage in a book. &quot;If you watch TV for two you'll end up spending 5 years It was shocking to me and I thought, &quot;What So, I decided not to have a TV. At the beginning, I felt bored because nothing to do! As a result, I have an extra two hours Watching the news By letting go of the TV, I also Japanese news is terrible. Mostly negative news like accidents, So, for someone like me who's easily it's nothing but a negative impact. Since letting go of the TV, I no longer Because I don't feel bad or anxious Of course, knowing about the current so I intentionally read news online. Saying YES to everything I used to be a YES man. As a result, my schedule was But this book changed that It's a simple strategy. Instead say YES only to things Since adopting this principle, my Doing a big cleanup I used to wait until my room got messy, And I kept repeating that. I stopped that habit because Now, I clean my room for just Just that much keeps the room tidy all the time. Keeping your room clean makes your life simpler. Checking emails multiple times Have you ever opened an email I used to do that a lot. But most of the time, I'd forget about It's double work, right? So now, if I open an email, I make Now, email replies have become much easier. Aiming for perfection This might be a Japanese trait, but I used to be For example, when I started spending 20 hours on scripting, 4 hours I did this every week, and Physically too, sitting in front of the So now, I try to aim at 80% work. At first, I was worried if but it was no problem, and I felt relieved. I learned that moderation Keeping the phone near the mattress I used to keep my phone near my But that was a bad habit. Keeping the phone near the social media before bed or scroll So, now I keep it away from the mattress. It also helps to actually get up and out of bed Try not saying bad words In Japan, there's a concept called It means the words you speak In simpler terms, if you say, &quot;Today sucks!&quot; So, I just try to avoid saying bad words. Very simple, but it really makes life better. Try letting go of even one thing I mentioned Because I was able to do it, Let's be simply happy together!