In A Song of Ice and Fire and Game of Thrones, educated man who serves as a healer, tutor but many fans - and some characters in the Something big. So let's have a look. The maesters are an ancient order based in like a university . As a maester studies, to be worn around his neck , with each link of learning - silver for healing , copper The Citadel is governed by a Conclave of archmaesters bear a mask, ring and rod made of the metal The Conclave also elects a Grand Maester who the last forty years, this has been Pycelle give up their family name , and take vows then assigned to a castle or keep in Westeros teaching, advising, and also managing the . So - what's so suspicious them? The Lady of Barrowton, Barbrey Dustin, deeply rats". She points out that the maesters actually serve - she says since maesters often read could possibly "twist ... the words for Maesters are supposed to be politically neutral you can't know "who they truly are", interests they might serve . She says "we secrets, a part of every council. And before too long, the ruler has become Dustin makes some good points here, right? Maesters are like the Google or Facebook of and everyone just trusts or hopes that they're Maesters write the history books , educate , and whisper into the ears of the most powerful Could the maesters be manipulating politics Dustin goes on to claim that the maesters Targaryens before Robert's Rebellion. So at the start of the series, before Tommen of Westeros. He became king about twenty years earlier, who had ruled Westeros for the last three The rebellion began when Eddard Stark's ran away with - Prince Rhaegar Targaryen. But Lady Dustin implies that the Starks along Baratheons had been plotting a rebellion long main people behind this plot was a maester of the Citadel and a "Hightower girl" supporters of the maesters . So if what Lady the Citadel may have been partly responsible of the Targaryens . A lot of this is uncertain, sure is intriguing, and we hear a similar the Mage. Marwyn is an archmaester of the Citadel, but stuffy and academic. Marywn reputedly "keep[s] company with whores brothels", and sacrifices to "queer gods". He spent years in the distant east, "searching and shadowbinders" , and, along the way, mask is Valyrian steel , meaning he is an At the end of Feast, Sam Tarly meets Marwyn, to build a world without "sorcery or prophecy He implies that the maesters "killed all they didn't trust Maester Aemon because are willing to kill to further their goals to find Daenerys, leaving Sam, and the reader, So let's work it out. Marwyn is implying that the maesters of the against Targaryens, and dragons, and magic. Which could make sense. As the historians of Westeros, the maesters to realm by the Targaryens and their dragons, to mention that several Grand Maesters were figured that the best way they could serve and their destructive dragons. It's also no secret that the maesters don't wild, and dangerous, difficult to control to the maesters' power as scholars and advisors. So it probably would make sense for the maesters Can we find any evidence that they've been We've already talked about Lady Dustin's Rebellion, which could possibly have been We hear another claim from Marwyn - he suggests because he's a Targaryen, and that's why becoming an archmaester at the Citadel . However, like it was his choice to serve on the Wall says Aemon went to the Wall so he couldn't the king . So it doesn't really sound like a Targaryen. Further, we know of at least one Targaryen , though admittedly that was a long time ago. So none of this is really evidence of a conspiracy. Let's look at another of Marwyn's claims all the dragons the last time around" . The and seventy years ago, at a time during the twenty-one dragons. Most of these dragons were killed during the that divided the Targaryens and their dragons, three years of the war, twelve dragons were by a rioting mob of common people , two flew one young dragon, called Morning, alive and some hatchlings after the war, but none survived within about twenty years, the last Targaryen left over after that , but none of them ever it's not clear what Marwyn means when he - the dragons clearly died in this huge killed off these last few dragons somehow have been poisoned, because they were stunted getting smaller for years - none ever grew the Conqueror brought from Valyria . The maesters so large is because the Targaryens started called the Dragonpit - though Daenerys' kept chained up, so maybe that's not true. Either way, it does seem possible that the hatchlings, or stunted the dragons' growth of it and besides that's hardly "kill[ing] What killed the dragons was the war, the Dance is that the maesters caused that war, like cause Robert's Rebellion. We learn about the origins of the Dance of and Rogue Prince novellas, as well as The it... doesn't look like the maesters were In fact, both Grand Maester Orwyle and Grand starting , and Maester Norren helps a dragon get a bit paranoid you could point out that, , who may have covered up their own involvement It's possible, maybe, but we are told that to these accounts , making a maester cover-up So, there's no clear evidence that the maesters know that the Hightowers were. Queen Alicent Hightower, who had married King inherit the throne, even though the king himself wife, to inherit the throne. That's basically the conflict that led to - and it was, in large part, caused by House says was connected to the maester who helped that's known to closely support the maesters were conspiring with the maesters against actually been very loyal to the Targaryens the Hightowers into starting the Dance of apparently manipulated the Starks to rebel So - we still have no hard evidence, but were behind both the Dance of the Dragons killed the dragons and overthrew the Targaryens. Let's look at the other part of Marwyn's a world without "sorcery or prophecy or This is an interesting thing because, apparently, decline in Westeros. Daenerys says that "Magic had died in the Doom of Valyria was centuries ago, and happened involved - though the Faceless Men might that the maesters believe that magic's no Maester Luwin says that "magic does not force in the world, but no longer" . This . At the Citadel, part of a maester's training with a candle made of obsidian, or dragonglass. Lighting a glass candle apparently requires is to show maesters that magic doesn't work a conspiracy against magic, if the maesters Maybe the maesters have realised the same - that "glass candles are burning" - magic New dragons have been born, the Others have and resurrections are happening left, right waken. Shadows stir. An age of wonder and terror will soon be upon That does not sound like something the maesters to stop it. It's not clear how they would do that, though. It's not like they're covering up the it in their books , and they have an official who's an expert on magic. So while it makes sense that the maesters do would it. So a big maester conspiracy against Targaryens but we still have zero solid evidence that Let's try to find some by having a look Cressen. Pycelle is the Grand Maester - he directly of, if not the, most powerful maesters. If there is a maester conspiracy, Pycelle And Pycelle has done a lot to undermine the In Book 1, when the small council discusses assassinating her - though, most of the not mean much. But there's a bigger thing - during Robert's to open his gates to Tywin Lannister's army , the death of King Aerys, and the end of Maybe Pycelle did these things as part of But, a couple of times, Pycelle gets really Cersei - and in these scenes, Pycelle totally on the floor, and he reveals his true motivation against Targaryens, but a massive man-crush Pycelle says he's Tywin's man , that he [he] did, [he] did for House Lannister" "The gods made and shaped [Tywin] to rule" armor" . It was loyalty to Lannister, not to bring about the Mad King's downfall. Of course, you could claim that this seemingly and is hiding his true involvement in a conspiracy really see what he was thinking - fortunately, Maester Cressen serves Stannis Baratheon at And in the Prologue of Clash, Cressen tries looks exactly like the sort of thing that against magic. The chapter is written from Cressen's point thoughts that lead to his decision. And opposition to magic and superstition is battle goes on between Melisandre's magic, not the main issue here - Cressen's does certainly no mention of any conspiracy. Cressen's main motivation is that he wants Cressen loves Stannis, thinks of him as the is leading Stannis astray by convincing him having allies . So while magic is part of to kill Mel is not a maester conspiracy against So. Where does this leave us? The maesters could have a lot of influence They may have good reasons to oppose Targaryens, Lady Dustin suggests that a maester was involved though we don't really know what happened Marwyn the Mage claims that the maesters killed indirectly by manipulating the Hightowers the last few dragons, but we really don't Grand Maester Pycelle and Maester Cressen but those acts don't seem to be related So given the complete lack of evidence, a unlikely. Marwyn's claims are probably exaggerated for scaring off Sam from telling the Citadel However, it's very easy to believe that strongly distrust Targaryens, dragons and to oppose those things. So the bottom line is that there's probably know how much. The good news is that we'll probably find awesome characters are converging on the Citadel the maester's chain, Jaqen H'ghar has unlock every door in the Citadel, Oberyn Martell's as the acolyte Alleras, and Euron Greyjoy's There are a lotta disguises going on, lotta a lot of fun seeing how it all turns out - and Thanks for watching - feel free to comment Thanks also to Ertac Altinoz, who kindly He has some really awesome art based on Game definitely check out his DeviantArt - there's Finally, thank you to the Patrons, including who made it possible for Alt Shift X to go Thanks to your support, we're already using are aiming to release at least two or three a new Game of Thrones season coming out in So happy new year, and see you next time.