(tires screeching) - What the heck was that? It came like that! You're eight years old, behind Old Man Spankenburg's house. Everyone knows you don't go into that old red barn, but somethin' catches your eye, in the under a fraying canvas tarp. You pull the sheet and as the dust settles, you discover the most beautifully weird car you've ever friggin' seen. What is this, how did it get here? This is everything you need to know to get up to speed on the Dodge Daytona, and the Plymouth Superbird. In 1968 Nascar was a big deal, and Dodge was gettin' their butt kicked by Ford and struggling to keep up with their sister company, Plymouth. It was pretty embarrassing. - It's completely humiliating. - So, the order came from the very top, build a car that can win The first try was a modified Charger. The '68 Charger is an icon, probably top five best looking American cars ever, but it was a crummy race car. The wide ass grill trapped in a bunch of air and the flying buttresses created a vacuum that sucked the car upward, making it impossible to To fix this, Dodge fitted grill from the Coronet and made the rear window flush with the b-pillars. The result was the Charger 500, a much smoother car that could But it wasn't enough to win as their own stock car, the Gran Torino, named after Clint Eastwood. When the Charger and Ford went home with the win. Dodge was fucking pissed. And to add insult to injury, Plymouth's star driver Richard Petty was tired of driving such a crummy promptly winning the first race of 1969. The pressure was on Dodge to save face and lure Petty back to the team. Dodge engineers whipped up a radical concept with a pointy They sent the sketch to Dodge And he said it was the But, he followed it up I gotta win Nascar or I'm The Charger Daytona was a go. Dodge even brought in a division to work on the Daytona project. Wait, what, Chrysler had a Yeah, dude, Chrysler built the government, missiles that we brought over It was called Operation Paperclip, it's a real thing. Happened, Google it. Back to the car, John rocket scientist. Chrysler thought that more than the Cold War, that's what I call having your priorities in order. Dodge took their winged beast to the Chelsea Proving But, when the drivers got to the track, the Dodge engineers gave them specific instructions not to go Here's why they couldn't do that, Ford had spy planes circling the track, this is weird, right? Chrysler had a missile division What a time to be alive! Dodge driver Charlie to 204 miles an hour, the first Nascar to break the 200 mile an hour mark. The team kept the top speed a secret, no one outside of Chrysler's engineering staff or upper management knew how fast their car really was. The Daytona made its public debut on September 14th, 1969 at the Alabama International Ricky Bobby built. - Well Jack, here's the plain and simple, I mean I wake up in the morning and I piss excellence - The Daytona took pole position with ease and claimed victory the next day. Ford and Chevy had no idea what hit them. What just hit us? Dude I have no idea what just hit us! Why have we been fighting this whole time? You're actually pretty cool. Nah, but we're rivals. And then they pretended The Daytona then won seven out of the last 10 races of the 1969 season. It was clear, their The pointy nose cut through the air better than anything else on the track. And that insane wing gave it insane grip. And those little scoops on the fenders weren't just for looks babe. Dodge told Nascar they were for wheel clearance at high speeds. But what the vents really did was relieve air pressure that built up under the car, keeping Oh, and about that wing, because it needed to be in the clean air. John Pointer, our rocket He knew that the already swirling air just above the tail would have so he put the wing up high where it could produce significantly more Also, for the Daytona to be legal to race, Dodge had to build 500 production models for the public to buy. On Sunday you could watch race cat ever destroy the competition, then go buy the same car on Monday. That's marketing, baby, Dealers had a really, really It was weird looking, and the nose made engine overheating a real problem. It got even harder the said 1,500 cars had to That's three times as many. The next season, Plymouth brought to life a winged car of their own, the Superbird. (tires screeching) And even though both the pretty similar, there are some subtle differences betwixt them. You gotta be a real connoisseur Nascar cars to know. For one, Plymouth designers the idea of putting a big nose on their prized Roadrunner, if they could make it look better. The nose was reshaped further up on the trunk. These changes made the Superbird around three miles per hour slower than the Daytona, and after two hundred laps, I gotta be honest with you, that makes a pretty big difference. But that didn't stop Richard Petty from returning to Plymouth for the 1970 season. In his signature Petty blue paint scheme. Well, well, well, we and now suddenly Richie's interested? I see how it is, dick. Now, we have two race that people would buy at the dealership. Am I the only one who sees how fucking crazy this is? Chrysler wanted to win Nascar so bad that they made 3,000 cars that will only be sold to two guys, Joe Dirt, and Matthew McConaughey Actually, if you think about it, I'm sort of a mix between Joe Dirt and Matthew McConaughey from They 1970 season was friggin' dominated by Chrysler's aero car, won 33 out of 48 races that season. But, their supremacy was short lived. For the 1971 season, Nascar rules mandated that any aero car couldn't have an engine bigger than 300 cubic inches, the fuck? The rule killed the Daytona Nascar officials said they were concerned with the crazy high speeds Oh, come on, Nascar, I thought That's not the real reason, how about you be honest. No, no, I'm good, I've only had one drink. Today, the Daytona and Superbird live on as legendary muscle cars. Outlandish survivors from a time before stock cars became shapeless blobs with painted on headlights. Maybe someday Nascar will put the stock back in stock car racing, but until then I'll be fantasizing about having a Daytona of my own. Oh, and if anyone from Nascar is watching, please add more road courses So, there it is, to get up to speed on the Dodge Daytona and Plymouth Superbird. We're gonna move beyond cars, we're gonna start doing track, designers, drivers, et cetera. What do you want to see on Donut is a family, Donut wants the support of its fans Please help us be a success, As always, like, I love you, I'm sorry, I like you a lot and maybe someday I will love you, but listen, I don't know where I'm focusing on just making these videos, that's me right now, and but I don't wanna lose you. OK, I love you, will you marry me?