Einstein's theory of special relativity years. People hear about clocks running at different peculiar other effects. And people might be willing to accept those about relativity, they come up with what seems the theory, because, well, you know- paradoxes. One such paradox is the oft-quoted statement ones. This is the whole basis of the ideas at high speed on a spaceship to a distant on Earth. If that rings a bell, that's the relativity. I'll actually make a video focusing entirely to really drive home some math that shows careful when you claim that there is a paradox So let's start with the most common time textbook. It is t sub moving equals gamma T sub moving is the time experienced by someone is someone who doesn't see the clock moving It's called the Lorentz factor. It is equal than one when something is moving. Gamma is one minus v squared over c squared. That'll moment, just remember that gamma is greater At this point, it's probably helpful for you the one on the derivation of the gamma factor equations. I won't assume that you've video, but what I say here will a bit clearer Okay, so let's get back to the time equation. greater than or equal to one, it means that clock move is more than the time experienced this means that someone moving ages more slowly crazy, but it has been proven to be true. called Einstein's Clocks. So this idea is behind a lot of science fiction the entire story. There are two key points The first is that this makes absolutely no different rates- although that's pretty Suppose you label the two people as number the clock to be stationary and number 2 as more time than number 1. However, relativity requires that the laws and this poses a problem. Suppose that we his clock and number one says that the clock time. Okay, so this is a problem. If you pick person person two's clock ticks faster. If you clock, then person one's clock ticks faster. that they are stationary. They can't both That just makes no sense at all. Either we have logically proven that relativity it. Given that the scientific community still more to it. And the answer is both very subtle So, begin by putting up the most basic and called the Lorentz transforms and they show view of two observers who are moving with time dilation equation I mentioned before Notice that the Lorentz transforms have both interested in the position one here, so we'll for the time one so it looks more like you So the first thing you see is that the time more general one. They're the same only if x sub stationary equals zero. And that is or x sub stationary is zero. The first one two people aren't moving with respect to theory at all. But the second is a lot trickier. seeing the clock moving depends both on the the clock move and by the location in the be stationary. So that's a big point. What it means is which clock we're talking about. There are observer. Since they are at different locations, Since this is a core point of this video, Let's start out by just talking about one is stationary with respect to the clock. We But that's not the only clock in his world. those clocks aren't moving with respect Now let's add in observer 2. He sees observer wants to know what he thinks the moving clocks To do that, we will use the Lorentz transforms locations. Let's pick two locations- say as seen by observer 1. Observer 1 always thinks Since observer 1 thinks observer 2 is moving 2's position as changing. According to observer equals minus v times t sub 1. Let's stop the motion and concentrate just observer 1. His own location is simply x sub Now let's write down observer 2's location t sub 1 equals minus v times t sub 1, t sub We can now use the Lorentz transform for time. the time is at observer 1's location. We In doing so, we find that t sub 2 equals gamma equation. Now let's do the same thing for how observer location. Remember that observer 1 sees this v t sub 1, t sub 1. We start with the equation t sub 2 equals c squared times x sub 1. We put in the x and Thus we get that t sub 2 equals gamma times c squared times t sub 1. So that's pretty We can factor out the t sub 1 and get this the definition of gamma, which I remind you one minus v squared over c squared. That means 2 equals gamma, divided by gamma squared, And finally, we get t sub 2 equals t sub 1 by. That's exactly the opposite thing we observer 1's location. Now we need to step back and review a bit. observer 2 sees compared to what observer sees more time elapsed than Observer 1 sees time elapsed than Observer 1 sees at Observer This is a super subtle point, but it clearly observers is a tricky business. You need to and the location at which the comparison is remote person's clock is slower. You probably maybe even rerun this video to get your head A crucial point here is that when people start without understanding exactly what the equations a mistake. And perhaps the most important find something about relativity that sounds transform equations. They'll never let you Okay, so that might have been a mind-bender, about using relativity. And, of course, I the video and subscribe to the channel. Plus help people understand that you need to be remember- physics is everything.