It's cold, isn't it? Yes, yes Do you know where the straw is for the horses? Behind... You have to hurry, the horses are going to be hungry! Like that, that's enough. Help me lift the bag! I am 12 years old. My name is Padma. We are four sisters in the family. My little sister, Kaskit, is 11 years old. With Kaskit, we are not just sisters, we are very good friends, like twins. The name of my village is Gya. It is at 4,500 meters above sea level. Now, both of you, come and have some tea. It's cold. Yes, it's cold but outside it's even colder! Mom's name is Shamba. She is 40 years old. She is a farmer. She also takes care of horses, cows and yaks. sometimes she does q'an. he is very good. We make it with barley. Hold. And this for you, Padma. Drink your tea! Are the horses okay? Did you give them the straw? Did you distribute it well? Yes, we distributed it among yesterday's leftovers. Yes, because if we don't put them separately, they fight! Father, here is your tea! You are cold? Now rub your forehead with the flags. Forehead? Yes and also the upper body. Go ahead, to the front. Oh, you put cream on the flags! Why do we have to mess with the flag. We do this to ward off diseases and strengthen the mind and immunity. Every 12 years, on the day chosen by the astrologers, we put flags on the roofs, and this allows you to regenerate. Normally, we put them in three places: On the mountains, on the terraces and on the bridges that cross the rivers. Go prepare the embers for the incense! Alright Alright! Our father's name is Urguen. He is 43 years old. he is a peasant. he has a lot of work in the fields. we grow peas, onions, and different kinds of vegetables. - Should I put that there? -Put it there. You need to say your prayers, my little one. - o o -Come on, say your prayer! I do mine, do yours. Every day early in the morning, in the domestic temple and in all the rooms, incense is offered to the god. It is to purify the atmosphere but also to clarify our minds. Padma, squeeze the dough tight like this! Press well in the middle, not on the sides. Ok, ok let me do it now! If you want to make it bigger, add more dough and squeeze very tightly! - Pour some chang here. - Ok, I'll get some chang. Yes. Tomorrow is Bunglun, our home. Now we're getting the roommates ready. It's for the people and animals who will come tomorrow. During Bunglun, we make large kolak, and it is made with barley flour. On this ball of Kolak, we put a small piece of butter. It is an offering for the gods and the 3 jewels: Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha. Bunglun is when animals and people spread fertilizer in the fields. For that, we need a lot of people and a lot of horses. As we only have seven horses, other families will come and help us with their horses. The bags are very heavy to carry. So when we sing, we have the impression that they are lighter. It encourages. In the village, there are roughly 400 inhabitants, for more than 150 families. we all know each other very well. In our village, Bungloud, it lasts 15 days. I have something important to ask you... What? I would like to do gotchak, now I'm quite old it's difficult but I would like to do it! Yes, you're big now, do it if you want! It will be good for the village, the family, the school, everyone will be proud. But you're going to have to miss school for two or three days. Hello Mom ! Hello Mom ! Hello Mom ! Hello Mom ! I could never repay you for all the love you gave me! Today we're going to wash grandma's horses. It's very cold so we're going to heat some water. You go get the wood and I go get the water from the stream, it's too heavy for you. It's difficult, it's very heavy. Plus, it's very windy and sometimes I'm almost on the verge of falling. Oh, I can't take it anymore, I'm dead! Okay, that's enough! You have to keep a little more cold water, because if the water is too hot, it will burn it. We have to add kerosene, otherwise it won't work. Are there three nuns in your class? Yes, there are 4. In my class, there are none... Big sister, who do you prefer in your class. In my class, it's my friend Palzom, she's nice. What do you play during game time? We play &quot;alale&quot;, cat perched. We sometimes play "kabadi". Our grandmother's name is Tashilonzun. She is 83 years old. She's dad's mother. Grandma, leave that, we'll wash your hair. Thanks baby. Once you leave, I won't be able to wash myself because I can't put my hands on my head. Am I hurting you, grandma? Yes, it hurts a little... I'll take it more slowly. Look at grandma! Behind it's all black, in front it's all white, in the middle it's all mixed! When you are old, you too will have white hair, like me! It's because I'm old that I have white hair and I don't have any teeth. Should I pull a little? Our grandmother is going to be beautiful like an actress! Oh thank you ! What is an actress? They are in the films, they are very pretty and very clean girls. When I was young, I had beautiful hair! Now it's good, we didn't have soap at the time , we washed our hair with the grease from sheep's wool. What was in it? There is grease in wool and we washed ourselves with that! People will say: &quot;It's thanks to her granddaughters who washed her before going to school that the grandmother is all clean... Our beloved grandmother is as beautiful as the moon Does that suit you, grandma? Ca n't you tie them up? No, no, they're fine like that! Now, keep your eyes and ears open, I'm going to tell you a very interesting story once upon a time ! sisters. One day, a little bird visits the older sister: &quot;Can you shelter me because it's very cold and raining?&quot; She replies : &quot;I don't have room for you!&quot; to the younger sister: &quot;Can you shelter me because it's very cold and raining?&quot; She answers: &quot;Yes, of course, come home quickly!&quot; The little bird: &quot;Give me a plate&quot; And he fills it up! of jewels and gold The older sister then invites the little bird... Before leaving, the little bird asks her to open her mouth... and he puts... A poop in her mouth! Should I start the story again? The zipper on your bag is broken! Give it a big shot! Maybe the teeth are offset? And the other one, does it work? It's broken too! It doesn't matter even if it doesn't close well! OK, that's good ! You fart like twins! Kaskeet has grown up a lot. Good luck to you both ! ooh, they are adorable! Someone forgot her badge! I didn't find it, it'll be fine! Hasn't the bus already left? The bus will arrive soon. It's dangerous, you can fall... Yes, the steps are high. Since he came to our school, there are 72 km. It takes 2.5 hours by bus to get there. In our school, there are many children from my village. We're all at boarding school and sometimes we don't go home for two months. Here, we don't really do sports, just gym, yoga, and we run to the monastery. Often in winter, classes take place outside. It's too cold in there. It freezes. While outside, with the sun, it's nice. Good night everybody! Kaskeet, go turn off the light! Who will snore tonight? It's Donkett who snores! Donkett, are you the one who snores? Good night! Has everyone finished their homework? Yes! We have finished! Listen everyone! Don't talk anymore, listen carefully! Tomorrow is the first day of the Tibetan holy month. Starting tomorrow, Padma and Kaskeet, you can take time off to do gotchak. Okay? To both of you, I want to tell you again that Gotchak is difficult, but it is a great source of pride for the whole school that you are participating. Gotchak is not just for us, it is for all sentient beings. All right? Come on, leave with lots of energy and courage! We are the two smallest, how are we going to be able to cross all these big mountains and these big rivers? It might be difficult. The meaning of Gochak is to bring peace. Harmony to the world, to animals and even to trees to everyone who lives. During Gotchak, we do prostrations for three and a half days and it is really very difficult. Everyone can do it. You just have to want it. - Are you tired? - Yes a bit ! - A little or a lot? - Just a little... At first, you're always a little tired, so take it easy. I thought the path would be straight and flat... The path goes up... You didn't think there would be ice and big blocks? No... - Is it hard? -Yes it's hard, I had a hard time... Last year, we also thought that we were almost there, that it was just behind, but at the turn we never got there! Yes, for newbies it's difficult, we think we're arriving and we never arrive! . Kiki soso larguyalo! When you have the choice between two paths, one difficult and the other easy, always choose the more difficult one, don't be afraid of difficulties. When you overcome them, that's when you have the most happiness.