Kaboom is the sound that some poor baker when Mount Vesuvius blew its top, and carbonizing a loaf of bread in the Sucks for him, but great for us because that most iconic ancient Roman loaf of bread for true Romans, this time on So as we saw in the episode a few weeks number of recipes from ancient Rome but know of their bread comes from writings done in frescoes and then the burnt a lot of people have recreated this loaf those resources in the description but from London chef Giorgio Locatelli who the British Museum. And if it's good good enough for me. Though I've actually made like 90% of breads out there chef Locateli assumes that this is made of flour, water, yeast and salt and when I first that I ended up using, and it made this bland, and so I ended up doing it again. wheat flour, gorgeous color this second different but I'm hoping that the flavor herbs. So for this loaf you will need or freshly fed sourdough starter, 3 of lukewarm water, and then some dry fennel, and a teaspoon of hyssop. Also the little bit variable depending on how up being a little tighter than I usually milliliters of water, but you might not the first question you probably have is options kid, and for answers we are going Roman writers, Pliny the Elder. &quot;There is than wheat, and none that absorbs a propriety I may justly call winter varieties of wheat. It is white, to the stomach.&quot; of Wonder Bread. Now Pliny goes into wheats of the Empire. He talks about yada yada yada, but he saved the top in modern-day Greece, the Isle of flowers made from other grains that the like barley, rice, spelt, sesame and the panic grass. AhhHH! So for this loaf I ended it's not a wheat, and half whole wheat look of the loaf once we're all done, but Pliny also has a lot to say about from millet and must, or skins of fresh would come, from actually the yeast that's made from barm. &quot;In Gaul and Spain where employ the foam which thickens on the in those countries is lighter than that he means grain not like American corn. to use which is just regular old air, good ole California air yeast. I'm whatever. So first take your water, stir in your salt, then mix your herbs dump it out onto a flat surface and fontaine. Then in the words of Johnny of flour, and start to work the flour while you pour the saltwater slowly the dough comes together, and like I said just kind of keep an eye on it. You want, If it's actually too wet, then just throw flour in there and you're good to go. kneaded it by hand, it took about 15 dough, but if you have a breadmaker you a stand mixer because this is a lot of motor, but if you do have a bread mixer then you'll have a free hand to tap that Bell so you never miss another episode disaster, not Pompeii and Vesuvius but a kneaded to perfection place it in a bowl to 2 hours ,or until it about doubles in wrote about bread, and wheat and all look at why relying on Pliny the Gaius Plinius Secundus aka Pliny the Elder, but overachiever that he was happened to fleet moored at Messina north of Naples nephew, Pliny the Younger (not incredibly the only person to give an eyewitness of the eruption. And he gives us some Here's where the story picks up just acumen saw at once that it was important ordered a boat to be made ready, telling replied that I preferred to go on with massive black unnatural looming cloud decides that he's gonna stay home and do talk but nerd alert. He tells how his to check on a friend, and it's a worried about his friend enough to go they packed up some stuff put it on the villa for dinner, while they watched from Mount Vesuvius. companions by repeatedly declaring that the peasants in their terror.&quot; clearly he did not because after dinner Finally some hours later, and only filled up with pumice and ash, that they did they decide to hoof it with pillows to ward off falling objects. So when they realizes that due to the earthquakes too high, and they're trapped so he sits the flames and smell of sulphur which drove the others to take flight and on two slaves, and then suddenly 26th, two days later his body was found and looking more like sleep than death It wasn't lava, it was noxious gas and us because instead of being completely wonderfully preserved, including their is that of Popidius Priscus . stones made of basalt lava, foreshadow to grind the grain into flour, then in a huge mechanical paddles, so if you are that's okay because they didn't do it by it seems that the only part of the actual shaping of the loaves, and so So set your oven to 400 degrees turn your dough out onto a lightly Then shape it into a ball and set it on like the one that I used, and if you are they're delicate. I broke mine today, I'm into sort of a flattop cake and cover it, or so. Once your second rise is done its iconic shape. So take a piece of the middle of the loaf and cinch it so haven't worn since before quarantine. Now debate, but there's debate on everything using Occam's razor I'm going to go with string that we've already got to make creates eight separate sections. Then loaf to make an indentation to keep the into the oven for about 40 to 45 minutes. about 30 minutes into baking so it can not need to darken because I used that looks like the the burnt loaf from it's baking. the oven, and set it on a cooling rack to our Panis Quadratis, or Roman loaf of difference between just using two what you want, but just know that some than others. If you're doing this for it's prettier, but this other one, the other did so let's cut into this. knew that by the shape. Let's take a I got to say. It smells good, but I don't definitely better than the previous loaf Current Italians do it better I think, know because all that we've got to go on of what Pliny tells us, but that's sometimes you win, and sometimes you ancient Roman recipes I have a playlist I've done so far on the show so I will