Vsauce! Kevin here, and I've built a computer capable Out of these matchboxes, some colorful beads Shrek. Okay. 24 matchboxes, all filled with beads, and about to play and... this is our computer. Now, Shrek comes along and...wait. How is THIS a computer? Aren't computers, just like, electronic What IS a computer? Well, the earliest computer was YOU. Or... your ancestors. They used calculating machines like the abacus but we were the ones computing. The human operators of early calculating machines Okay, back to our matchboxes. Once we introduce a game board, Shrek and our input, gives us an output and not only This is not just a computer, this is an artificial with the brightest minds humanity has to offer. At a game called Hexapawn. Here's how. Hexapawn is based on chess -- each player The pieces move like chess pawns, too. They can go forward one space if that space then they can't go forward. Sorry, Donkey. You can, however, move diagonally, but only There are three ways to win: Get a pawn to the other side of the board. Take all of your opponent's pieces. Or leave your opponent without a possible Our setup works like this: I've got 24 matchboxes of pieces on the board during that round. I've got my Team Kevin pawns vs. the computer's And do you know what that means? That means that we've officially turned Alright. The human, that's me, always goes first. Wait. Why? Because recreational mathematician Martin He actually created Hexapawn and its rules computer called MENACE. 15 years after helping the British break the invented MENACE to learn And now 59 years later, I'm on YouTube playing Since I go first, my moves occur in only the 1, 3, 5 and 7. Therefore, the matchboxes are grouped by possible One of us is guaranteed to win before Round So, Team Shrek has no Round 8 moves. Each box contains one colored bead for each So like this first box has a green, a blue, And I've cut a hole at the bottom of the box fall out. So I'll just shake the box and let one bead And it's purple. That means if my pawn was here and it was purple arrow move. Like this. If a blue bead had fallen out, then Team Shrek And if it was a Green Bead then Team Shrek And taken my pawn. Okay so that's how Team Shrek will move. Team Kevin will move however I want Team Kevin play back and forth until there's a winner. Alright, Round : Fight!: I decide to move For Round 2 I now use. this box to determine Team Shrek's move. So we'll give it a shake. Woah! Let's try that again. And it's the green move. So Donkey moves forward. Now it's my turn and I decide that, look, diagonally and win the game. That's it. Now here's the important part. When Team Shrek makes a losing move, I remove That way the computer can't make the same comes up. By removing its losing beads, the computer When Team Shrek does win, then instead of in the box. Okay, I'm gonna play a bunch of rounds now a K when I win and I'll write an S for a Shrek Here we go. Okay, I've played 14 games. I started off winning a lot more than I was Out of the last 7 games, Team Shrek has won The computer is clearly getting better at I mean, I'm just taking beads out of matchboxes What is learning? At the most basic level, learning is acquiring an existing behavior. Every time I take a bead out of a matchbox, to an outcome of failure. That increases the probability that the computer's in our case, is winning Shreksapawn. After a sufficient number of games, the computer My Team Shrek computer may not be thinking And it can also learn in a different way. Removing beads is basically a form of learning When Team Shrek makes a bad move, I'm punishing I don't have to worry about the computer aren't gonna get frustrated and quit playing face and tell me I'm not their real dad. But what happens if instead of punishing my Instead of just putting the good play bead could add another bead of the same color that That would reduce the probability of a losing of a matchbox generating a winning bead. The computer would still eventually reach losing beads, but it will take longer because If it could feel, it would probably feel better journey toward perfection. So the fastest way to perfect play is by punishing But the way to win as many games as possible To improve at hexapawn, our matchbox computer It's a way to solve problems and learn based Based on the process that drives biological The beads of learning in your life may be Put your hand on a hot stove once, and learn That's painful." So you remove the touch-hot-stove-bead from They may also be augmented by rewards. "My parents bought me ice cream for getting Add another get-good-grades-bead to your matchbox Hexapawn is an obscure, academic game from computer that learns to win every time. But by allowing this matchbox computer full learning a bit more about learning is... you. And as always, thanks for watching.