Book of Acts 13:22. If you're taking notes I want you to write this God is planning. The pursuit of God prepares you was not chosen randomly. This was not a lottery heart. In other words, if you take your notes him. Many times when people say you know how God's anointing, God's power in my life? You is this, is you and I are first disciples of Jesus of Jesus before we are leaders of Jesus, and Jesus for followers. Remember in the Bible, He never the leaders caused Him problems. He was looking laborers, but not every leader is a laborer and is after, He is after us being after Him and that Now we don't know, did he pray a lot, did he fast that God out of all the people. Now we all give God saved me, God delivered me, He rescue me. But David. See it's one thing to give a testimony of of you. And what is the testimony that God gave Me. That doesn't matter. God's testimony is not need deliverance. God doesn't need salvation. and I believe this is the testimony God wants to didn't say about David that David had God's heart, had, sometimes he didn't. He was after it. So whatever position that you occupy, especially this. The pursuit after God prepares us for what God will see you. Jesus tells us to do three The true proof of pursuit. The true proof that we Jesus says this in author of Hebrews 11:6, and diligently seek Him. In Matthew 6, three times fast. In the secret, give. And you will think would be because it's the right thing to do. this. He will reward you, He will reward you, He bit kind of like even wrongly but please hear reward. What many times we want is want their discipline. Everything you have reward. It's either a test or a encourage you to be people like David. People that you are in love with Jesus. If you're not in you will not carry the impartation to cause others you will draw a crowd, you won't build instead of salt of the earth. What sugar. What does salt do salt? We are the salt of the earth. That means not us. But it cannot happen if we don't have a have is gifts, education, skills and ability to but in the kingdom of God our number one priority &quot;Amen.&quot; So the first thing that I wanted God prepares you for what God is planning. The is this. Power is needed to meet the demands to meet the demands of ministry. Power is needed The next verse, it says the following,&quot; But and a distressing spirit Now this is God's diagnosis. The doctor's you need some meds and your mental health this. While Saul remained in the position of absent. He was left with a position that now distress. Anxiety comes from three main things. Number one. It comes from the demands of and number three, it comes from the device of demands of service. The Bible says Jesus felt sin. Somebody touched Him. When you serve, now in power or stop being God. Absolutely not. have a limited amount of power and we can leak. and what begins to happen is that you begin And sometimes it's not because the position low. As leaders we can allow sin in our life, named Samson, he had sin in his life. And because where the Bible says, the power left him. That secret sin, sometimes the gifts of God, the Bible take him away. But God's special sweet presence we find ourselves unable to meet the demands of demonic attack. Ministry has four main challenges. The position that we carry, senior pastor, you get in the church will carry pressure. Sometimes the responsibility carries pressure. responsible for other people, you're responsible, for others people's well-being because when When everything is bad, everybody's hunting with David you know. The whole city got burned. guess who they wanted to kill? Not Amalekites. the higher you go, the more pressure. If you that comes from being a CEO. Your employees, worry. Where's the next contract that's going to deadlines for next year? What about the stuff? Is to happen? There is a pressure that comes with the where you are entrusted with other people. Another but the ministry provides pain from personal or pressure was not enough, God will always have His your skin. Through misunderstanding, sometimes sometimes it's just challenges. He said, she said, this is not the way I expected. People cause pain. cause God pain. Hurt people hurt people, wounded this pressure that comes from a position and then a position and not really interact with people. dealing with their insecurities, you're dealing unmet expectations, daddy issues, their and typically you will be the reason why certain blamed for it and welcome to Ministry 101. I how to avoid it. Absolutely not. Who killed Jesus? and they don't sometimes tell us that in seminary. oh my goodness, I rather work with computers. I stuff. I do not want to, you know Matthew Barnett don't be surprised if you get walked upon. to be misunderstood, to be accused, when people they leave like demons out loud, very loud. They They make a lot of noise and that hurts, that problems for ministry and that is a push back from haven't had a r run in with the devil yet because with the devil. Demons begin to come against us. running some cookies marathon or some kind of a is not charity. We're actually assaulting the is Jesus said He will make the church be closed doing, we're making the devil angry and he's church does not do deliverance, if your church to cause certain opposition against you. And the flawed and we have our own problems. We have home own insecurities. We have our own things we're So put all of these four things together is it's like it's going to happen. Put these have a perfect disaster. So those of you who are know? I am in ministry too. I didn't read this schedule. I find it interesting that He gave them power. Now I know why, because the demands of ministry cannot be met the pain and the push back. He just matches His the Holy Spirit's relationship, shameless plug secret place, without relationship with the Holy us. We will cry out to God to make people nicer, make my position not cause me so much stress. the call of God, dropping the towel, but after you got kids as well, that also carries certain that carries certain pain. To really avoid life. That's why the Bible doesn't say in He removes their stress. It says, He renews their comes stress. It's just a natural thing. The you have more attacks, you have more push back. I'm not always going to relieve or alleviate all delivers us. Spirit of depression is gone, one see a solution to this one problem. But come one, problem. And so this idea, &quot;Oh I'm going to have of eternity. There is going to be frictions. to have to learn to manage it by making sure that His power. That's why God doesn't give David a anointing. What crushes Saul was that power left. He was still tall but no longer anointed. Your a career doesn't require anointing. For a career ability to connect with people. Callings of God you're dealing with spiritual powers and you're yourself struggling. You have certain areas of your life where maybe a life or God wounds resurface again. And you're and I have to lead them. And so all we need to ourselves is Jesus called Him the Helper, who anybody? Now when it comes to this power that into two anointings. The inner anointing and you inner anointing is in you for you. It's the us. The Bible says you have this anointing and it the Spirit. The outer anointing, it's what comes my walk. The outer anointing is for my work. The helps me to teach others. The inner anointing be transferred. Meaning my personal walk with the you can be disciplined. That's just not how that on of hands. Not character. In other words, the of the Holy Spirit. The outer anointing helps us inner anointing, we must live our life with the the outer anointing, we must live our life with the Bible says that speaks more of like not that fire. But grieving the Spirit means when we we quench the flow of the inner anointing, which still even flow with the outer anointing, kind of sooner or later, all of that will cave in, will outer anointing stirs you. So when you're in the comes in the secret place, typically it makes you inside where every voice just dies down. There's that I am God.&quot; It's in the place where we know during ministry, you get worked up. In fact you he ripped oxen, burned them and sent a very come with me and Samuel. That's exactly what's what happened to the stillness? Because the outer explains why sometimes a calm person, a quiet advanced person. Anointing hits them and they're am not, like speaking, that stuff scared me. Now and so but when the anointing comes in, it does their name is, how much money they make, what they gives you that stirring, and so and those are the let's just address a little bit more. We all have activated by either a visitation or impartation. visitation from God or impartation from the man encountered Moses. But Moses laid hands on Joshua God supernaturally visited Samuel. &quot;Samuel, imparted something to David and Saul. God didn't likely visited Elijah. We don't see his beginning, had a supernatural visitation from God but Elisha we know his family, we know what he was doing upon his life is by Elisha imparting that. We supernaturally encounters him. But then Ananias he gets baptized in water and in the Spirit. But about communion, he didn't get it from reading not Timothy. Timothy didn't get it straight from God will supernaturally encounter us and there get that should never be discouraged because those others. Why? So we all develop dependence on &quot;I don't need anybody, I just need God,&quot; is not parts of the body, your lungs do not say that about joints. We all need each other, amen. And so we have something, we walk with God and then God us. And I am a fervent believer in developing believer in the doctrine of the laying on of he says that you will not neglect the gift that a specific, clear, through the laying on of the to embrace that as a church and we cannot to get everything only directly from God.&quot; Certain humble. And those of you who got it directly from pray for other people and give that to other &quot;Sow $1,000 and I will pray impartition.&quot; That is He brought gold and says, hey, could you Peter now am a fervent believer in honoring God's anointing with that. But I think the moment we begin to you know I want to pray for you. I want to release month fee.&quot; Yeah. Jesus made it very clear. Go and raise the dead, cleanse the lepers. Freely is received freely. Anybody who charges you, run from them because they're contaminating and that is not right. There's nothing wrong, I selling books. The moment it comes to the grace the healing of God or deliverance of God. Those with His blood and He gave it to us through grace. can have anointing upon your life but if you don't say that again. You can have anointing upon your for example and we're going to do that today, we that. But you must understand, anointing is like similar muscles to you. The difference between don't grow and I don't walk around buff. I'm just Anointing works through action and practice. When these signs get fulfilled, he said this, do what will lie dormant and you will think you don't have When in reality you have it, you just need to now the sick. You tell somebody about Christian faith. out by faith in the measure of the faith you have. mimic somebody else. But in the measure of faith because impartation without activity lies dormant. &quot;Man give me another, pray for me pastor, pray for you haven't tapped into. You got to work it. Work this anointing to work. When the anointing hit notice this. David did not run from a bear. If work. If he would have ran from a lion, anointing it. Is that anointing works the way is God works challenge bigger than you and gives you demands. What does that mean? That means sometimes you an occasion and the anointing will kind of but what does God want me to do?&quot; Well measure sick, cast out demons, raise the dead, cleanse God wants people to be saved. God wants people God wants churches to be filled. So pretty much occasion demands. David did not have a prophetic it. How did anointing work on his when occasion demanded. You can receive for the rest of your life. That's why a we just need to not be lazy. That's why Paul said you.&quot; Blow it. He pretty much says you already not neglect the gift that is inside of you. What gives it to you in a full form. He gives to you keep on working with it. You will not received right away but if you work with it, you will begin to see similar results and that to you. I've seen the same thing in my life I don't mean it like in that I use drugs. But Spirit became a Person to me in a relationship I wanted to see people saved every single service to live for and all I was willing to die for. We didn't do it to get the anointing. We did it was really painful which was a confirmation to me to do it. So that was another confirmation that right after that you know we became radically, buying things. I'm totally against that. But I do these things. And so we would have different Cities. And somebody who would have a breakthrough get like 300 kids getting saved once a month. And you know whatever I had. Sometimes you know $100 could you pray for me?&quot; And again, I don't buy it wasn't, because if that pastor would see what it wasn't about him. And one time actually and I mixed the gas and the seed and I gave heart. So and but honestly, not only I was our tail off to do everything we can to get as I knew there's supernatural grace but I know God He can't add super to anything. I have to work. maybe I already have it. I don't need anymore and just keep on pressing in and keep on pressing when kids start getting saved, one after another, started to continue. Same thing with deliverance. for that impartation of that deliverance prayer I came and this lady, she would come every &quot;I had a dream yesterday.&quot; And you know it's so.&quot; And she says, &quot;And I saw you holding go. But she said, &quot;You were the baby.&quot; different. Interestingly what she said is John Chi,&quot; and he said that deliverance that we've seeing. And this happened before John Chi couldn't we already do a little deliverance. And then remembered that dream, and I was like okay, now it's been about five something years and we've moving in that ministry of deliverance and Amen. Number three. Slow success grows ego. David Gets anointed at 15. He becomes persecution for one tribe and at 37, so the king of all the tribes of Israel. So do promise. This is what I've learned about the He trusts a little and trusts slow. Let this sink in. The Lord gave me a a baby. Or 10 years ago, just never told me this building when I was 16, that we're going to carry that and I'm 37. That's 21 years already, to be seeing in the next few years. And this is little time that I walked with the Lord is, God is destination. He gives this promise to give you're going to come out outside and you're most likely that's not going encouraging. But sometimes truth sets us free. men do not appoint you. God anoints David and his &quot;Yeah, the prophecy, that was good. That was from.&quot; Kills Goliath. You would think Saul would and David kept going back to the sheep. People Yes. People will always appoint you way, way purpose because God wants to develop humility. it's not about our title, and it's His timing and you're too small for the throne. The anointing and signs and wonders should never make us sick because we're anointed, criticism will destroy us. you completely, it will hurt. Criticism hurts, allow criticism to hurt you deeply is don't allow you. Be the same person that you were when you process does. Process, because when God gives a change the world.&quot; And God's like yeah, there's destroy your world first. I mean I'm going to like to a wine but do you know how the process? Yeah, deliver me from that.&quot; I'm going to take oil out of it? &quot;Oh God, I don't want to know.&quot; I'm gonna be an arrow in God's quiver. He's gonna back first before He releases you forward? &quot;God you promised me I will go forward, why are I feel like You left me.&quot; That's exactly how all if you don't serve another man's vision, nobody of his dad, the vision of his king, Saul. God will increase it in you. David and this very big. When you notice the flaws of people that you could do better and you choose to be we cover sins of people. What we're saying is that rebellion, undermining and despising. Dishonor you. When God says, &quot;Honor your father and your does not mean your parents are honorable. Honor exposes you, not them. So for the reason why I dishonor them is because he's a jerk. &quot;Oh he's just really bad. I can never is earned. Honor is given. Honor is not the left him. When Saul starts throwing spears, David mean come on we have to have boundaries. We need &quot;I'm going to leave. I'm not going to stay in this even when he distanced himself from this man. desert season, do not waste your wilderness. to know God. He wrote a lot of Psalms. The Bible he grew in spirit waiting for his manifestation movies and play video games. He did not get spirit. Meaning his desert wasn't wasted, his &quot;Man, I'm doing everything, it's not working. I'm build yourself, develop yourself, amen. And the purpose will distract themselves with pleasure. I tried to go semi-regularly. I used to go more challenging. We've been doing more fasting and so kind of go out of town and the Lord gave me this just a good reminder. Acts 13:22 and then the &quot;When He had removed him, He raised up for them is just an impression. The Bible doesn't say that says God raised David to give him to a nation. belong to them. This idea that this is my church. wording. God raised him up, for them. Never we who did the right stuff, we will say, &quot;Yeah I went through the process. The reason why I'm anointed. Well you know kind of runs in my family. know I mean I was married and when I was married, these breadcrumbs that are very vital and very raised me up. That's not how God sees because and they're sitting in jail for the cause of Not necessarily because of anything you did. God is pleased with them if they please our promotion, our breakthrough as something sacrifice it for our purpose, we'll hold on to like Esther had to. Because Mordecai came to her for the sake of your purpose. You were not up because there's a cause. And that just to serve Him, to serve. I want you to see It's not about serving our generation by generation by the will of God. I want to make your goal is to serve your generation, you will many of us will be effective in serving our some of us will be effective in serving our will serve our generation on a very limited serve your generation, the enemy will use that a pace your children cannot follow, that even attached to your position, it ego. And this is what I found. The definition stress. When my YouTube exploded, and you leaders, growing ministry. New systems need to be is extremely, pretty stressful to kind of develop, have this ministry that started as a website breakfast. That kind of went up kind of quickly. stuff, and the next thing I know is I found myself So it exploded, and it's way less stressful to So part of me felt like, man why do I need to be? rather just do videos, preach, write books and week to the same people who kind of like, this that person's complaining. And I was like And I went to the mountains. This was what do you want me to do?&quot; And my first thing people for Jesus because Jesus died for something. that was my fault. That was my problem, that kind and He said this. He says, &quot;I will not judge reached.&quot; He said, &quot;Your great-grandfather be judged by how many people he reached &quot;I will judge you based on if do.&quot; And He said, &quot;I called you to be a pastor &quot;Then what do I do with the YouTube?&quot; He says, &quot;Just because I'm blessing you, you learn 12 months from travel and I said okay, let me people, a lot of people and it helps people. And success is not if I'm reaching people. The measure Because nothing is worse than succeeding at what succeeding at something that just doesn't matter. it says, &quot;Walking worthy of the calling of Lord on that mountain said, He says, &quot;If My Son's He would have not died at 33.&quot; He said, &quot;How 'I finished the work you've given to me,' when Him to do and I was pleased with Him.&quot; And after crazy pace. Let's just do more, more. Why? And then we run over our families, we run over all for the sake of the Gospel. But in reality success. I want you to see what God says to David, generation.&quot; That means my eyes are not on my is to serve God in my generation. To give and if tomorrow the influence, the effectiveness change my focal point, serve God in my from the position in the spotlight, somebody Serve God In my generation. If God chooses serve God In my generation. If I have to be like in her generation. That's my, serving God in my your eyes become on God. And it's it's about the rhythm of revival. It's running you don't lose your health, you don't compromise, Walked. That's one of the reasons I do not like running. Plus the Bible says the wicked man runs reasons against running. Enoch walked with the use a running animal, a fast-paced animal. He used slow, hurting people could touch Him. He was never to always say when people come up, &quot;I know you're right now. After I leave you, I'm going to be over reality I want to be present in each environment Ministered there and I was present. Finished I could, pretty much was I think the last one to killing me but they're just my legs. They'll get I want to be present in each environment that I but I want to be in pursuit of serving God in my and that is Deuteronomy 28:47-48, which I'm not time, and that is when God says, when you arrive everything, and God says, and you stop serving God You will serve your enemies in hunger, thirst Maybe it's the legalism part of me that still is I used that verse to remind me, being a slave to feels like man, it just seems like there's so much challenges. And I sense the grace of God and I didn't like when Samson said this until I just want to be like every other normal person. if you cut my hair I will be like every person. I will be like everybody else. I'm tired of being normal. So he chose the normal. Didn't read the his calling was so big, he wanted to run from it there's no more normal for you. Please the midst of it. Even if you don't feel joyful His Spirit, the promise of heaven, His indwelling &quot;It's just so hard, it's just so difficult.&quot; of it is a joy to serve the Lord. Yeah, it see people's lives changed and it's a pleasure to