- Christians and Jews, But at times things have like the dark ages and the middle ages and a good portion of everything before the mid-20th century. Cut from the same Abrahamic cloth, the two religions have a lot in common; origins tied to Jerusalem, reverence for the entire Hebrew Bible and profound moral concepts that preach forgiveness But among some serious differences, the two religions have a A man known as Jesus. Jesus, take the wheel. How did this split happen? Why don't the Jews believe And why don't the Christians for instance, shrimp cocktails became permissible for them, while circumcision became optional? And why did one become one of in the world while the other remains perpetually few in number? (upbeat music) Let's jump to Israel in the When Rome first arrived put Hyrcanus in charge and also as high priest of the temple, mostly to be a puppet. Rome kept its control by aligning itself with the Jewish aristocracy, who ran the temple rituals. For the most part, all was collecting taxes. So they allowed the Jewish and excuse them from worshiping A kindness not afforded to However, these taxes were steep and compounded with the They made it nearly impossible for peasant farmers to make ends meet. Many of them had to take out loans with crushing interest rates and becoming indentured The dire straits of the peasant class, along with concern from the led to an air of rebellion. Jews at the time were fractured with as many as 24 There were Hellenized Jews, and then there were more generally referred to as &quot;Zealots&quot;. Though they were actually The compromised Jewish leadership, lack of unity and economic hardships, all bubbled over not only into rebellion, but also messianic fervor. During this period, hundreds of leaders predicting the end of days Then a Jewish man named Jesus entered the revolutionary rank. No matter what your faith that Jesus was an iconic figure. Libraries are filled with one of the biggest movements Jesus, Greek for Joshua was born sometime around six or four BCE in Bethlehem and became a carpenter Hence his title, Jesus of Nazareth. He was born and raised in the Jewish faith and circumcised according His mother was named Mary, and he had at least one brother James, but likely other siblings as well. Upon returning to Jerusalem, he became engrossed in temple worship and eventually started teaching followers. Around the age of 30, Jesus started to accuse the Whether his preaching was that or universal pacifism, varies But either way, Jesus had common for the time becoming After meeting the preacher John who baptized him in the Jordan river, Jesus is reported to of healing the sick Eventually, he had that in Leonardo da Vinci's It's generally believed to but accounts in the book So maybe Jesus and his apostles were just doing what Jews When one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot betrayed him that very night, Jesus was brought before a Jewish court and found guilty of blasphemy. The court then handed him over to the Roman governor Pontius pilot. He was tried and executed sometime between 30 and 35 CE. Jesus was crucified. The manner of capital with the letters INRI, an abbreviation for King Not the mocking statement one might think, the inscription was instead He claimed kingship a crime By all Christian gospel accounts, Jesus was buried then rose to ascend into heaven as Dozens, if not hundreds of Messiah figures were tried and executed by Rome. But what is a Messiah? And where does the term come from? The Hebrew word Mashiach The term the first to Jewish figures that are inaugurated into leadership via ritual anointing with holy oils. Moses anointed his brother, as well as Joshua, his own successor. Samuel, the prophet anointed and then David. The written Torah has virtually no specific mention of a Messiah figure. Though it does foretell It's not until we get to such as Isaiah, Micah, that we start to get clear ushering in the return of The 11th century rabbinic scholar Rambam streamlines the Torah's criteria for the Jewish messiah as the following; 1) comes from the line of to restore the Jewish leadership. 2) will rebuild the temple and to Israel from exile. 3) will reinstate all the Torah laws in their proper form. The Jewish idea of Messiah is a wise man certainly not God himself, Much more along the lines of Bar Kochba. The prophet, Isaiah foretold who with the spirit of the revealing the full knowledge Then he hits on the famous, leopards lying with goats, Nowhere in the prophets does rise from the dead or need In fact, the virgin birth of Isaiah 7:14 mistaking the Hebrew word for young woman to mean virgin. The miracles didn't disqualify but the continuing dispersal and the unrestored lack of that Isaiah foresaw and directly challenges the the Jews did have. It wasn't until Paul came along that the early Christian doctrine went from being somewhat to contradicting what the After Jesus's crucifixion, his apostles continued with his brother James at the head of the Christian congregation. The story goes that when was struck blind with the prophetic vision of After this vision Saul brought a whole new The story of Jesus went from to an embodiment of God himself. Very different from Judaism. Paul decided circumcision wasn't necessary and the Laws of Moses no longer applied. He even began converting non-Jews. This rubbed James and other leaders, like Peter the wrong way. And they summoned Paul But eventually the early Christian Church embraced Paul's approach and at that point Christianity became its own distinct religion. Paul's shift to a new target demographic was also accompanied by a large redesign. The Hebrew prayers were changed to the common tongue of Greek. Paul believed that the covenant of Moses had been fulfilled with Jesus's sacrifice and a new covenant was forged. The new perspective of Adam and Eve's original condemned all of humanity. So the single act of Jesus's sacrifice would be the rectification As said in Romans 5:18, &quot;Therefore just as one man's trespass &quot;led to condemnation for all, &quot;so one man's act of righteousness &quot;leads to justification and life for all.&quot; The practitioners didn't need that Judaism held so sacred. A follower simply needed and they would be granted The five books of Moses regarded as the fundamental revelation of Judaism was relabeled as the Old Testament, while the writings of the apostles, the epistles of Paul, and a few other writings would With the new religion rooted in Judaism, but now combined with a doctrine into the society at large, sounded extraordinarily appealing. The Jews had always been outsiders with religious practices into surrounding cultures. But now pagan converts could jump on board without having to change and in many cases their religious customs. As Christianity often to encourage conversion. Over the next few 100 years, as it developed its core The movement caught on a size which threatened Rome's security leading to Christianity being outlawed. Christians were openly persecuted with the full brutality Then one night in 312 Constantine the first of a cross imposed over the sun. The next day he won the battle that granted him the emperorship. The combination of vision and victory was good enough for him. So he legalized Christianity with the Edict of Milan, and freeing them to Side note, Constantine's So that probably nudged him In 325 CE, Constantine had with the writings of the modern day Turkey. The religions practices and and Jesus was officially In 380 CE, the Emperor and he made Christianity the sole official religion of the empire, banning all other religions. Finally free of persecution, and for once nationally advantageous, the religion flourished with Jews on the other hand At this point, after the Jews were still recovering from Rome's decimation of Jerusalem. Adding insult to injury, Rome renamed the region, Palestine after one of the Jewish in an attempt to wipe from their homeland. As terrible as that had been, the persecution from the Christians in the following centuries arguably would be worse. Before, Jews had to contend but Christians actively sought and didn't tolerate those who resisted. Judaism's existence threatened their claim that Christianity was the Jews fought to remain in Palestine as Christians claimed including the location of the crucifixion, Bethlehem, Jesus's birthplace and the church of the Holy Sepulcher. With the codification of the New Testament at the end of the fourth century, the focus and story of Jesus's death shifted from the Romans who crucified him to the Jews who found In this now official Christian doctrine, the Roman governor Pontius Pilate, historically known for his brutality and sentencing many suddenly became a sympathetic figure who tried to pardon the condemned Jesus, but failed due to the insistence As a result throughout labeling Jews Christ killers was used to justify including riots, burning of synagogues, forced conversions and worse. But they had a brief for a couple of centuries that all ended when Emperor Justinian came to power and renewed persecutions He removed safeguards for Jews rights and essentially legislated Though Rome fell in 476 CE, the feud between the Jews in the coming middle ages and beyond with the crusades, the Spanish and the expulsion of and from Spain in 1492. Persecution took on a new dimension with the Protestant Reformation Eventually, the two religions in the modern era. After the catastrophe of the Holocaust, the attitudes of In 1965, the Catholic church which mitigated Jewish and argued that modern day Jews shouldn't be held accountable for the act. With the founding of the many Christian groups have for both the Jewish nation And though the two groups may still have many points of contention, their disagreements are much via interfaith dialogue than Thank you so much for watching. We're going on a short with the next part of the In the meantime, feel free and turn on the notification bell so you know when we drop season two.