- So whether you're looking or even just increase email we're gonna walk step-by-step of adding DMARC protections You're gonna need access to at which point we're gonna walk through the manual process of setting there's an easier managed You can jump ahead to that or keep watching for the Welcome to &quot;All Things Secured.&quot; My name's Josh, and last month, we spent a little bit of and the value that it for your email that you In other words, if your yahoo.com, or outlook.com, Anyway, you can watch this video here later if you wanna get an overview Now, let's open up the which I've hosted through Cloudflare. Yours might be hosted so you might also need to or one of the other domain Now, I'm gonna show but before we get started, I wanna recommend that you before you start doing this yourself because there's part especially towards the end, that I wanna highlight that might make you wanna really think about doing the more managed process that we're gonna talk about in this latter half of the video. Okay, I'm gonna start off which as you can tell, I And so the first thing I up my SPF record, and that's basically saying which websites or which entities are as &quot;All Things Secured.&quot; So the first thing I'm it's a txt file, naming it the app or the and I'm creating the SPF for google.com. Now, this is something that I and so I'm gonna go And the next thing that I that SPF is I need to go in now and figure out how I can And the only way to do that, this secret key between and Google is to go into my admin account. I'm going to authenticate and now you're seeing And I wanna do it for the correct URL. Make sure you have the right URL here. That's super important. And I'm gonna copy and paste Again, we're creating a specifically is the Google And then I'm gonna copy here for the TXT record Again, this is my DKIM record for Google. And if I wanted to send with ConvertKit, or MailChimp, or if I law firm also be able to I have to set up a separate SPF record for every single one of them. So, now that I have a record a DKIM record. So now that I have a record, an SPF record for Gmail and a DKIM record that gives that private key, now I need to set up a DMARC record. And this DMARC is going to set to these emails that come from which ones don't come from my Gmail. So I'm gonna set it up, as I could set it up as reject, I could set it up as I'm gonna set it up as none to make sure as I'm doing this that I So I'm gonna set up a mail to. So I've set up a specific email address, dmarc@allthingssecured.com, to send these DMARC reports to. And then if you wanted to, you could do a comma and then any other email address that you want. I'm just gonna keep it at this one. I'm gonna go ahead and click Now, again, let's say I wanted to set up ConvertKit as a sender of my emails, which that's what I use I'm gonna need to verify my sending domain and that's what they asked me to do. They asked me to set up a CNAME for my SPF and another CNAME record for my DKIM. So that's what you're gonna see me doing. I'm going to go ahead and set up a CNAME, I'm going to copy and to copy and paste in there, and then I'm gonna do the and then I'm gonna go ahead and do the same for the DKIM record. And the DMARC record remains the same. So there's only one DMARC that's explaining what but the SPF and the DKIM records, you have to set up one individual one for every single sender that you wanna be sending on your behalf. Now, at this point, if you wanted to, you could actually go in and check how you set up your DMARC records. I'm doing this on EasyDMARC, there'll be a link in where it's gonna show me overall results. It says that my SPF record might not have been set up correctly. There's some things It's showing me my DMARC So it's letting me know if Don't worry about BIMI. That's something for advanced. You know, it costs $1,500 a year, but that's not something I just wanted to see if As you can see here, the albeit maybe a little bit confusing. I'd say the one thing I wanna that you wanna set your DMARC policy to none as you get wanna get an understanding before you start quarantining But wait, before you run off here, let me explain one thing This is just part one. Now you need to monitor that are being sent to so that you understand how by all of these different email providers. And here's the thing, these reports come in daily and unless it's your job to it can be really confusing, I mean, they come as an XML file, and if you were to open it up, like the one that you see here, it just looks like gibberish. Like, you really have to And this is just for a couple emails. Imagine if it's hundreds of emails, having to go through and parse and analyze this file is really confusing. And that's really why I wanted It's easier to set up, but more than that, it's a whole lot easier to understand and analyze the reports that come in. So, let's dive into that right now. Okay, so I've already created and I'm gonna go in and the first thing I need to do is I need to set up the URL that I'm gonna And depending on your plan, but let's just get started I'm gonna set up &quot;All Things Secured.&quot; So I click on add a new domain, I'm gonna type in and I'm gonna add that in. And one of the first I have to add the DMARC record to my DNS. So that is one of the first Like I said, you've gotta be in your DMARC So for me, that happens in CloudFlare. So you're gonna see, I'm going to create a TXT file for DMARC, and then I'm going to copy So once I click save, I'm gonna go back in and I'm that DMARC record was put in correctly. It was. So I'm gonna start my DMARC journey. And here's where you're My dashboard right now, it I just set it up, So now what I need to do is at this point, if you remember from the previous video, it's not just the DMARC, we also have to worry about And that's why this gets all confusing. And here's the point where the DKIM, we have to set up on an for whoever's gonna be sending. But the SPF is something that and it's, in some ways, a little bit easier for me to set it up. So I'm gonna go ahead and and that is something that only comes at a higher price plan. You can do it yourself as I've shown you in the but I'm gonna go ahead Okay, so now for EasySPF, I need to go ahead and set up you know, SPF record with EasyDMARC. So you're gonna see here, I'm basically gonna do the same thing. I'm gonna copy, I'm gonna and make sure that I've Go ahead and apply that. And now I will verify. All right. Now, at this point, we need to start adding sources, sources that are allowed So let's say I wanna do So it's gonna come up as And I can use include, it's gonna automatically and then I just click add. I can do the same thing for a That could be, let's see here, Salesforce, that could be Microsoft, that could be a whole host of others. EasySPF kind of has all of and you can get it or you can go and do it Okay, so with that outta the way, we're gonna fast forward a couple weeks and now look at my dashboard and thousands of emails So you can see my dashboard here. I've added a couple of additional as part of my business, but I'm gonna blur those out so you just see &quot;All Things Secured,&quot; and you can see that I've almost 5,000 emails with a 97% DMARC compliance and pass rate. So I can dive in and look Obviously, these are and I can see all the those emails came from. So whether that was which is where I host my website, all of those emails And I can say, the DKIM And at this point, after 30 days, I'm fairly confident that I from none to quarantine or reject. And that way, as I'm looking at this, any of these emails that are non-compliant or any of 'em that are threats, and the non-compliant those are just ones that and so I'm not that worried about those or any threats or unknowns. I can look at these. Again, most of them are but I can check out those unknowns and get a better sense of And looking at this, I see the mail.ru. I definitely don't want those That is not for me. I'm kind of actually honestly worried about why that's showing up. And so I wanna make sure that I'm setting my DMARC policy now to at least quarantine, if not reject, because I don't want through for the security for those of the people and especially just for any of with &quot;All Things Secured.&quot; So you can see here that this reporting versus this reporting is a and I am a lot more confident to set up my DMARC policy to reject at these numbers as And that's really the point. I do not wanna keep my DMARC I wanna move as quickly as I can to a reject or a quarantine policy. So before you go through and manually set up your DMARC records, especially if you've never done it before, you should go and check if they've got a plan that And honestly, I think they will because they even have a starter free plan that you can try. And for paid plans, if you go that route, EasyDMARC is working with to you if you use the promo Whatever you decide, if you run a small its own IT department and let's face it, that then protecting your business Learn more about EasyDMARC here and in the description below. And now that you've taken I recommend you watch through seven critical need to be taking as a So, watch that next.