This is Democracy Now! I'm Amy Goodman. The Academy Awards take place Sunday. One of the top contenders for a number of actor, screenplay, editing--is the movie The film is inspired by the true story of classical and jazz pianist Don Shirley, played played by Viggo Mortensen. The movie has renewed interest in the history And today we look at a remarkable new documentary a travel guide that helped African Americans It details the violence, the insults, the road, as well as the pride and sense of community around the country, in the form of restaurants, The film is called The Green Book: Guide to This is the trailer. MARQUETTE FOLLEY: Very bad things happened Going down a dark country road, there was You could actually be lynched. YORUBA RICHEN: Smithsonian Channel presents UNIDENTIFIED: The Green Book was a way to YORUBA RICHEN: That became a roadmap. UNIDENTIFIED: Right when you open up, it says, And it goes state by state. YORUBA RICHEN: For some of the most significant political milestones of the 20th century. UNIDENTIFIED: Owning an automobile was a big JAMON JORDAN: Having a car meant something. It meant that you had arrived. UNIDENTIFIED: Regular people populating something UNIDENTIFIED: There were all kinds of businesses guide, but also very telling in terms of how UNIDENTIFIED: It uncovers a hidden truth about It allows us to really just simply embrace UNIDENTIFIED: The Negro Travelers' Green MARQUETTE FOLLEY: The guide to travel and UNIDENTIFIED: Travel-wise people. RON HANDY: Carry your Green Book with you. UNIDENTIFIED: You may need it. AMY GOODMAN: That's the trailer for The The film premieres Monday on the Smithsonian For more, we're joined here in our New York Richen, a professor in the documentary program at CUNY. She also happens to be a former Democracy producer. It's great to have you back here, Yoruba. YORUBA RICHEN: It's great to be here, always. AMY GOODMAN: Congratulations on this film. YORUBA RICHEN: Thank you. Thank you. AMY GOODMAN: Talk about the history and what YORUBA RICHEN: So, let's see. There's so much history within the pages The Green Book was created and first published He was a postal worker based in Harlem. And he had the idea for the book because of Catskills for Jewish families, where they And he looked at that, and he said, "Hey, This is something that the black community He also had a--was married to a woman named travel down to Virginia. And he, you know, experienced all the things time in terms of traveling. And so he created The Green Book. AMY GOODMAN: You narrate this film, I want and show this history of The Green Book. YORUBA RICHEN: Victor Green was a postal worker African-American communities in the country. But even in his own neighborhood, African other establishments. And at Harlem's famed nightclubs, such as like Lena Horne and Duke Ellington, packed to sit in the audience. In 1936, Green created and published the first where black customers were welcome. THE GREEN BOOK 1948: The idea of The Green that will keep him from running into difficulties, enjoyable. YORUBA RICHEN: The Green Book started out in Harlem. Two of the most prominent were the Hotel Theresa most important recreational and cultural centers. During the 1930s, dancers from the Cotton And many famous luminaries, such as writer there. But The Green Book would soon outgrow Harlem. And by the time it ended publication, it had It had become a roadmap to some of the most and most important political milestones of HENRIE MONTEITH TREADWELL: It's important significance of The Green Book. If you don't see the history, if you don't YORUBA RICHEN: Eventually, The Green Book its pages. Today, only about a third of those sites are HENRIE MONTEITH TREADWELL: We need to find we need to revere what they meant, because THE GREEN BOOK 1947: Carry your Green Book You may need it. AMY GOODMAN: An excerpt of the Smithsonian's Our guest is Yoruba Richen, who is the filmmaker "You may need it." This was not just about where you could go go to ensure you would survive. YORUBA RICHEN: Absolutely, absolutely. Traveling during that time, for African Americans, Not only was there segregation in the South, not allowed to go, to eat, to sleep, but also So, you know, there's this mythology that South, or was confined to the South. That's not true. The North and the West had the majority of African Americans had to get out, had to leave There were maybe signs, a bell might be rung, They were not welcome, and there was the potential AMY GOODMAN: After midnight. In the daytime, they could work there. YORUBA RICHEN: Yes, they could work there, AMY GOODMAN: In fact, that was also referenced YORUBA RICHEN: Absolutely, yeah. AMY GOODMAN: Which has been criticized for YORUBA RICHEN: Right. AMY GOODMAN: --the perspective it was told on his book--and not consulting Don Shirley's YORUBA RICHEN: Yeah. AMY GOODMAN: This remarkable pianist, classical, South. But you definitely have the sense of violence And his going to--well, talk about, in the well, all the places that are documented in YORUBA RICHEN: Yeah, I mean, that was one many people watching the Hollywood film, is Green Book is only a small part of the film--but nice places. They were-- AMY GOODMAN: Dumps. YORUBA RICHEN: --dumpy. Yeah, they were dumps. And that's not what was in The Green Book. That's not the extent. The Green Book had 9,500 listings over the And, you know, one of those places was the in the country. So, that was a real misrepresentation. And the other thing-- AMY GOODMAN: In fact, we were just in Birmingham the Birmingham Civil Rights Institute, and YORUBA RICHEN: Absolutely. AMY GOODMAN: --and preserving it. YORUBA RICHEN: Yeah, absolutely. It's really exciting. The other thing the film did was that the in the South. So, when they were in the North and in the And then, when they get to the South is when And as I said before, that's not true. I mean, these listings were all over, because roads all over the country. AMY GOODMAN: We're going to break, and when some of these places, like Idlewild, and also Yoruba Richen is the writer and director of be premiering on Smithsonian Channel on Monday. Stay with us. [break] AMY GOODMAN: "Ride On Red, Ride On" by This is Democracy Now!, democracynow.org, I'm Amy Goodman. We're talking about the new documentary premiere Monday on Smithsonian Channel. I want to go to another clip. YORUBA RICHEN: One black resort in northwest MARILYN S. TAYLOR: My dad was a lawyer in And he purchased land when I was 7, and built So I've been here since I was 7 years old, This was a place that you were free to bike. We were free to swim. We were free to just visit with each other And we would ride every morning, and then beach in the afternoon. You met your friends. You played cards. You swam. And you had fun for the afternoon until the And then you had to come home. YORUBA RICHEN: During its heyday in the 1950s, in the Midwest. The beating heart of Idlewild's booming developer Phil Giles. BETTY FOOTE: First it was a bar and a patio. Then he added the club part. Then, that's when it became the Flamingo And he really put Idlewild on the map. It was just nothing but people. Nothing but people. Senators, political people--everybody came I was born and reared here. I'm 81 years old. So, those were my mentors. The ladies were so glamorous and dressed so This place was so full all the time. They would run out of spaces to live, you left. They would take their baths in the lake and But they wasn't gonna leave Idlewild. LOIS PERRY: That's right. YORUBA RICHEN: World-famous performers entertained Armstrong and Dinah Washington. LOIS PERRY: They were singing and jamming I was a waitress. Sarah Vaughan was my--that was my lady. And I waited on her. And when I carried her change--she had gave darlin'." AMY GOODMAN: A clip from The Green Book: Guide Channel. Idlewild, the significance, the dignity of YORUBA RICHEN: I'm so happy you played that That's one of my favorite parts of the film, were many communities like it all over the this community for themselves to have vacation That's what everybody said when we went AMY GOODMAN: And let's be clear: This is YORUBA RICHEN: This is the North. This is in northwest Michigan, upper Michigan. And it was--it's such a beautiful place. The history is amazing. The development started in 1910 by one of at University of Chicago. These people have been there for generations, At its heyday, as it says in the film, there in the Midwest, black or white. And today, of course, it's not the heyday the buildings, redevelop the buildings, encourage There are events there. And as one of the characters, one of the subjects, know, you really feel it when you're there. AMY GOODMAN: And you're going to be having YORUBA RICHEN: That's right. We are screening in Detroit on Monday night, So I'm really excited. We have somebody from Idlewild who's going in the clip. So, it's going to be great. AMY GOODMAN: I wanted to turn to the 1949 On the cover it says, "Carry your Green And under that is a quote by Mark Twain: "Travel Inside, on page three, just after the introduction, representative of the Esso Standard Oil Company, travel problems." Alston writes, quote, "The Negro traveler's because today so many more are traveling, On the next page is a picture of Alston along representatives of the Esso marketers in their Talk about the role of Esso and these two YORUBA RICHEN: Absolutely. That was one of the most interesting discoveries Esso gas station, which was Standard Oil, Rockefeller, had a very early program to promote to hire African-American scientists and chemists. He was married to a woman named Spelman. Her last name was Spelman. They come from a long line of abolitionists. Spelman College, the HBCU in Atlanta, was So there was a history of this corporate behemoth And they distributed The Green Book at their And that is how--one of the ways that The and so popular. AMY GOODMAN: You also talk about the women YORUBA RICHEN: Absolutely. You know, the women--the stories that we so many of them were women-owned businesses. And at one point, I start looking through They're all online; the Schomburg has them their town to see what's listed. But there are all these pictures of women They had sent in their pictures. They were advertising in it. And, you know, everything from restaurants So, black women entrepreneurship is something of our history. AMY GOODMAN: Are you astounded--in these about The Green Book when you were asked to YORUBA RICHEN: It was divine timing. I mean, no, it's amazing. What I am also very excited about is that piece. And hopefully people will--you know, their no matter what happens on Sunday night, and AMY GOODMAN: So, the Oscars Sunday night, will premiere on Monday night on Smithsonian Yoruba Richen, director and writer and of in the documentary program in the Newmark That does it for our show. Democracy Now! is currently accepting applications Details at democracynow.org.