- I just got back from Rome and, of course, the menus in <i> Arrabbiata, amatriciana,</i> etc. But if you spend and really seek out you'll find surprises-- a cloud bread; it's made And they fill that a spaghetti with prosciutto, and then a gnocchi that's made So stay tuned and what is new - Funding for this series - Introducing Hestan ProBond, crafted from the resilience We collaborate with top chefs and the kitchen experience. Italian craftsmanship meets - Just steps outside in Rome's Borgo Pio there's a bakery called Panificio Arrigoni. This bakery has made bread for every pope from Pius XI And they also bake unlike anything Angelo Aragoni - (speaking Italian) - (speaking Italian) - (speaking Italian) - When we set out to recreate we had a mystery to solve. What, exactly, makes this bread hold its puffed up shape? - (speaking Italian) - So, I have been asked this really interesting and so I've been asked to try and replicate that So there's a few challenges, but I'm getting closer. Even though I'm I found that just on a cookie sheet didn't really puff at all. This isn't really so I've added but let's see if it still puffs with that much flour in it. So this one's a little bready, and that's not I want something with This one was a little too thin, getting the puff on the edge, in the middle to kind of This one's a little bit thicker, a little bit more of that. So I'm gonna try and see what can happen with that. So I think what I'm gonna do is see if I can use or steel and what position is really gonna replicate kind that they had in Rome. So, we'll see what happens. - So what is cloud bread? and it's this big puffy... - It's like nothing It was invented in Rome at a bakery near the Vatican, Panificio Arrigoni. And this guy Angelo's, his grandfather started it and it was sort of that he figured out I still don't really understand So, when we came back we basically said, hey, take some pizza dough, So, what worked? What didn't - Well, some of really needed to happen was That was something, if you just weren't gonna get The amount of yeast and also the amount of water seemed to make a big difference. - Right. You needed - So this starts as - Yes. all-purpose flour, salt, yeast. a teaspoon or half a teaspoon? And some water. So if you The other thing I found even though the dough if you continue to knead it, it takes about eight minutes. It comes together, and then it's not so sticky. - So, hold on a second, So, am I the mixer? - You are the mixer. - You do it by hand, yes. - So, again, like it's too wet, but it isn't. You have to be committed. I think that's So you don't want even though it's gonna seem If you add too much flour, Like I said, some of them and some of them will have puff. It's like a cloud. Every cloud - Wow. - You're getting, like, - Right. So this is gonna take to come together, and we're gonna work on that, and then we'll come back. So, as you can see, So it's not gonna be completely We're gonna put it in for about an hour, until it doubles in size. And about a half an hour we're gonna turn the oven on, and ready for our cloud bread. So I'm gonna cover it So, this has been a little bit more. And we're gonna divide it roll it into balls When I was working on this, I would just roll them out And some of those So, I found the ones that - Hmm. for about 15 minutes really seemed... for pizza, though, wouldn't you? You'd cut it into four pieces, roll into balls, - Right. would be typical for pizza, too. - Right. - So we're just into a ball, cover these with a towel for 15 minutes. Okay, so these have We're gonna roll them They don't have They'll still work. So we're gonna finish and then we're So, moment of truth. You ready? We're gonna bake this up. yeah, I really want because I can't process - So, why, right? - Well, one of the things we again, resting the dough and also having something like a pizza steel, Or if you don't have that, flip over a baking sheet. But you need something So that'll take and then we'll bake the rest And now we wait. - And we pray. Those look great. They puffed. - They did. So now they break it open with a salad inside, - Yeah. So it's kind of like a reinvented panzanella. - So, for the dressing we want it to have So we've got and a couple of anchovies. And I know you always it's not gonna make it fishy. It's just gonna give it So I'm gonna mash that up I'm gonna mash that together And I'm gonna whisk So, I'm mixing the salad. Do you mind cutting up I like fresh fennel in this because it's kind of A little extra crunch. I'm gonna add a little pepper. And then we have some romaine and arugula I'm gonna toss And I'm gonna add And parmesan cheese. - Okay. - Okay. So... do you like raw fennel? - I do. I put in - The salad looks great. Let's take one of optional to kind of brush it - What is this, like, Or is this... ...to soften it or something. - It's all about that. So, if you don't I do think it looks pretty. And if you've got I think it adds And then I think a little So if you want to take and crack it open... - (groans) - Well, I went and now we're just gonna, like, crush it with a knife? I mean, what? Really? - Like this? Go for it. There you go. See? And then we're gonna put a half on each of our plates. Break that open. All right. We're gonna fill it with salad. Okay. Some extra cheese? Salad's really good. I think it's really... - Yeah, the dressing's - I think it's Do you care about presentation? Once in a while I do. I mean, If you serve this, that's, that's pretty cool. - But it's also simple: So, salad, bread, nice presentation. What's not to like? We love it. - In Rome, we learn how to make or the pope's pasta. Our version was inspired from restaurant Mamma Angelina, who made an incredibly Pasta alla papalina is a take It was in the early 1920s to make a more elegant version of this dish And by more elegant, for the guanciale, and parmesan was swapped for So now, let's get started of spaghetti with prosciutto, We'll whisk together one quarter cup heavy cream, two teaspoons pepper and a cup of Now we'll start We'll start with a large pot When the water comes to a boil, and one pound of spaghetti. Then we'll let that cook, until the spaghetti When the spaghetti's ready, first reserve one cup You'll need that later Then you drain the spaghetti. Okay, now that it's time to start Now it's time and the prosciutto, which In a 12-inch skillet we'll melt three tablespoons We'll add one small red onion and we'll let that cook stirring occasionally, just until the onion Next, we'll add We want that to get on the edges, so we'll cook that and stir only occasionally with the onion gets slightly browned Then we just remove and let that cool down We'll transfer one quarter of the prosciutto-onion mixture because we'll use that So when the spaghetti we add that back which is still nice and warm. Now we'll transfer the rest of from the skillet that has the pasta in it. Then we'll add one cup of and a quarter cup of We added peas and they were still frozen to retain their bright green Now, pasta alla papalina doesn't always have peas in it, but many versions do. And we really love and that fresh vegetable flavor Then we'll just keep tossing until everything's nice and hot. While you're tossing, a little dry or thick, of that reserved pasta water, just a tablespoon and that will Right now, Okay, this The peas are nice and hot. We'll take this because we are going to be the eggs and the cheese And if we leave this over the eggs starting to cook. All right, so we'll This sauce The eggs will cook gently and the entire sauce You also get Okay. The eggs and cheese Now, if you noticed, while we were making this dish, other than the pasta water, because the prosciutto The parmesan that goes in has a little bit So you wait until after it's sauced, then you can Okay, we are ready While it's hot, of course. All righty, get a little bit a little bit of peas, Hmm. All right. with some of our reserved to add a little bit and, of course, Okay. So we have a nice, creamy, rich, but lighter and more elegant spaghetti with prosciutto, Mmm. Every bit as good as carbonara, but actually a little bit - Gnocchi di farina are made with just flour, water, and Not a potato in sight. We learned these from Antonio but they're emblematic of<i> cucina povera</i> in general, which is peasant cooking where you basically using what ingredients you have to make really hearty, So, to get started, you need That's it. that you've lined with parchment that we're gonna use once we've made the dough. All right, to get started, we have two cups We're gonna add and then we're gonna add I want to warn you it's going to look It's gonna clump together, but you're just And what you're going to do is The boiling water is key to We're gonna have pillowy, We're not gonna And that's because hot water's by the flour in a process So the starches in and we're also inhibiting Once your dough is uniform we're going to bring it over And it's hot, so be careful. You're sort of gonna We're gonna dust this And then to protect our hands, we're gonna use a rolling pin. So we want to roll it that's about a half an inch. That is good enough. And just because to use a bench scraper. So this is about half an inch. And now we're just gonna and we're gonna This is sort of This is going to help I mean, it's still flour, and we still want structure. We don't want our gnocchi to dissolve when we cook them. Just by using the hot water, but we still have I'm gonna fold it The dough is sort of It went from that uneven, into something And pretty soon, be able to knead this by hand. But now we want to knead until it has a really We're not quite there, already how much smoother it is. You can fold it over Okay, we have a nice, It needs to rest for That's also an advantage It's not a dough that rests But you do want to cover it for about 15 minutes. All right, it's been 15 minutes. And now we get We get to shape our gnocchi. So, we have our nice dough, into, again, roughly thirds. Just want to cover up the two so that they don't dry out. Now we get to play We're gonna make What's more important is so that your gnocchi are and they cook at the same rate. And if you have or surface to work on, just make a shorter snake. Now, you want to and you want to make But again, it's more important than they're So now we're gonna make them but we just want to toss them so that our fork doesn't stick. You can do something as and pressing down and getting Then you put it In Italy, and that's what we're The best part that happens is you use your thumb, in the back of your gnocchi, which is a sauce pocket, which is the best part So if you want a sauce pocket, at home, and you don't have you take your fork, and using your thumb, and at the end, flip, sauce pocket. Form all of these and and then make the remaining into snakes and form those out. Then you boil some water, you make a quick sauce, All right, we're ready So we have four quarts of water And we're going to add So I guess a secret of making this gnocchi because we'll definitely no matter what sauce we use at the end when we serve them. Bring this back up to a boil. And then we're gonna You don't want They're a little bit delicate. We're just gonna cook them and then transfer I'm gonna take about Stir them up Let them cook We're just gonna turn them and they're done. Okay, when they're and they stay, You want to use a slotted spoon to transfer them to a wire rack And they're a little but we're gonna let them sit and they will sort of their final great texture All right, let's do You do want to make sure that the water's All right, and now we have to make the sauce for those sauce We're making a simple pancetta, They're great with tomato sauce. They're great with To make our pancetta sauce, we start with about a tablespoon and then we add We want to render the fat, to get nice and crispy. I think it's surprising nowadays to hear that pancetta and which is But remember and parmesan is an aged cheese. These are things that and you get a big impact. So it really is<i> cucina povera.</i> So we want to cook this and most of the fat and it takes five All right, we have It smells wonderful. You might use a slotted spoon to remove it to a bowl while we build If your pancetta you want to save in the skillet and Part of the reason that this is that we consider and not wasting any including the fat So I don't have much oil. Maybe actually even add And now I'm gonna add By slicing the garlic, though, in the oil. It's more like with that garlic flavor. It's not going to like a minced garlic might be. We want to cook this which is about two minutes. All right, our garlic's getting I'm gonna also use to transfer it to the same bowl that the pancetta is in. We're just about So into this garlicky pancetta pan, So, remember, they sat You're not as worried To this, we're going to add A quarter teaspoon, it's your preference. And now that to our gnocchi, So, we want to start And we're gonna stir so that we release more starches And we create a velvety sauce So this is gonna take And you're gonna see of the pan reduces, This is a perfect So we're gonna add back in and just heat everything which really 30 seconds, maybe a minute. Keep moving things around and every piece of gnocchi in the sauce and has a little bit of garlic. Every bite is perfect. All right, this is done. So we're gonna turn And now we want to that contrasting note This dish has plenty plenty of richness, And so a little and some fresh parsley are gonna give it that contrast with the rich, And then it's nice a little drizzle of olive oil to sort of a silkiness at the end. Now we're ready to plate up, and If you serve this something simple like with a lemon vinaigrette, This really is These gnocchi have that pillowy They're not dense at all. We have a sauce that has of very common ingredients. This is gnocchi di farina You can get this recipe in this season of<i> Milk Street</i> - Recipes and episodes are available at along with shopping lists, and step-by-step videos. Access our content anytime - The new<i> Milk Street Cookbook</i> and includes every recipe From pad Thai with shrimp to Korean fried chicken and the<i> Milk Street Cookbook</i> offers bolder, fresher, easier recipes. Order your copy of for $27, Call 855-MILK-177 - Funding for this series - Introducing Hestan ProBond, crafted from the resilience We collaborate with top chefs and the kitchen experience. Italian craftsmanship meets