Damien Hirst creates headlines and buzz This morning Tracy Smith takes a deep dive (TRACY) How's this for a story? A few years back the wreck of an ancient sailing ship, the Apistos, was found off the coast of East Africa. The ship's name &quot;Apistos&quot;, translates as unbelievable in ancient Greek. And the cargo she carried was pretty unbelievable gold-plated sculptures and huge bronze The salvagers packed it all off to treasures of the unbelievable. But here's shipwreck or any lost treasure. That this exhibit. And the sculptures on craftsmen in ancient Rome. They were all by Millennials in matching coveralls. The treasure and the made-up story behind it was yet another Damien Hirst. (TRACY) The idea is that all of as part of a shipwreck and they would want to look like it's it's real. You (TRACY) The coral might be fake but the pieces have already sold that price is At 53, Hirst has been described as argue with his success. An original work by Damien Hirst like Gagosian Gallery could be worth more might have done the actual painting. (DAMIEN) As other people to make my paintings. (TRACY) Why? (DAMIEN) I just don't think it's important what's important is that the end result is (TRACY) Even if it's not your hands doing the work? (DAMIEN) Well I'm gonna it doesn't matter whether I actually I'm making sure that the end result is And what he wants sells. This 2008 auction alone million dollars. In fact, Damien Hirst is a net worth said to be close to a (DAMIEN) I remember when I opened up my first bank account, the bank manager said 'What do you do?' I said 'Oh I'm an art student and he said 'Ohh..' Now I get Christmas cards from my bank manager, which I don't like either! Hearst grew up in Leeds where he says he failed at pretty much everything except drawing. So he became an artist and this 1991 piece really put him on the map. Basically a (TRACY) What was it about the shark? About important to you? You could have just (DAMIEN) My biggest fear was I'd been making an artwork you could walk up, And I just thought I didn't want art wanted art that just got you and whether (TRACY) That was the biggest fear, was having to be ignored? (DAMIEN) Yeah I Turns out he was impossible to anatomical models became giant shrines for multi-coloured pills. His Like this piece, a platinum skull sold for around a hundred million (DAMIEN) I realized it was the first thing I made that couldn't have in my own home. Without security or people what do you think wow you know the people could like you need to create quite a monster. (TRACY) He also created a reputation for partying as hard as he worked. (DAMIEN) to get a hangover. And I measured the and it was like seven or eight days I was Yeah 'cause you're just not able to deal with it anymore. (TRACY) But that was then. These days, beauty seems to be his drug of choice. stunning and even more so when you see (TRACY) So these are all actual butterflies? (DAMIEN) Yeah real butterflies yeah. (TRACY) And did you change the color? (DAMIEN) No, nothing's been changed it's just as they're found. (TRACY) In case you're wondering doesn't catch them all himself. The butterflies come from old collections he buys up. And close by there's a group of artists who execute his vision spending their days works in progress. Using bolts to keep gluing each one oh so carefully into place. Of Course not every Damien Hirst is nearly as meticulous as this. Some are downright messy, like his spin paintings where he throws paint onto a spinning canvas to create a very colorful and (DAMIEN) My business manager said to me 'That's an amazing painting you making Damien', - an old business manager. And I said, But you he said, 'Yeah but it is!' and it's like but you know it's not true so it's not everybody makes crap paintings at some (TRACY) Even you? (DAMIEN) Yeah, everyone. Especially me. And throw the cup on it after. (TRACY) The idea here is that anyone can make great art even those of us with no His color choices were brilliant, mine can do it is it art? (DAMIEN) If it looks good. (TRACY) And to me it did look good but Damian was never one to play it safe. (DAMIEN) Because I love the painting. (TRACY) He splashed on some paint thinner. (TRACY) Oh no! (DAMIEN) Oh yeah! (TRACY) And instantly regretted it. (TRACY) So does that happen to you where you go just a teeny bit too far and then go 'ooh I ruined it! (DAMIEN) I just did it. (TRACY) So maybe it wasn't his favorite but then again everything he touches is worth something. We're good? No! Stay away from me! Actually no, wait. Touch me! (DAMIEN) Touch me! Sell it! (TRACY) And now after three decades creating one outlandish masterpiece after another, the artist is no longer a young man. But beauty in that too. (DAMIEN) Moody! Moody guy! I definitely got less think I can safely say. (TRACY) How are you feeling about that? You who has confronted death so many times with your work. (DAMIEN) I kind of feel as you get older hopefully you get a bit wiser. Maybe I