hey Holl yes let's do it again let's do it night it's gonna be amazing we've been to the to come to Austin Texas yes in Oklahoma City Missouri Denver Colorado St Louis Missouri Fort there April 18th April 18th through it's 27th awesome but make sure you go get your tickets seriously light the best the best can't explain can you explain it you have to experience it it'll it elevation nights elevationnights.com get your Are y'all ready for the Word? from Ephesians 4:14-24. I really will only talk or else it'll sound like some kind of Pinterest to do that today. I want to teach a little bit. I I know you leave the house and have to fight so the main thing I have to do when I slow down. Let the people wake up.&quot; So, that's why I had Zeek sing a little bit: so to you what I have been studying for the last series is called Do the New You. Oh, we're going January. I'm happy to see you. I'm happy you're at the beginning of the year. You have perfect Devil that. Put a gold star in the Devil's Ephesians, chapter 4, verse &quot;Then we will no longer be infants, and blown here and there by every wind of teaching have to watch out for people. Wouldn't life be the way? You could do everything God spoke to you to obey God in church, and then I have to get out So, Paul says here we need to get to a point in their deceitful scheming, whether it's a or any of that, whether it's something you've &quot;I want you to grow past that into this.&quot; Watch we will grow to become in every respect the mature From him the whole body, joined and held grows and builds itself up in So I tell you this, and insist on it in the Lord, in the futility of their thinking. They and separated from the life of God because of the of their hearts. Having lost all sensitivity, so as to indulge in every kind of &quot;Boy, Pastor Steven, you picked a cheerful to this. It's about to turn. &quot;That, however, heard about Christ and were taught in him in You were taught, with regard to your former which is being corrupted by its deceitful desires; and to put on the new self, created to be When people give you advice that Smile at them. &quot;Yeah, I'll pray about that.&quot; preach a series on Bitcoin. I said, &quot;I'll Then I went on about my business. Then it's different, even if you don't like what about 12 years ago... He was diagnosed about 10 years ago. We went through a horrible period but we would get on the phone and try to speak. It would turn into a shouting and then get in a shouting match on the phone with but I couldn't figure out a way past it. I The point of this story is this pastor called and said, &quot;I heard about what and I've been praying about it.&quot; Now, he only me about it. So, he heard what he heard from happened with your dad, and I just called to ask Do you know what I thought? &quot;Jesus would heal him, and I'm not Jesus. I might lay hands So, you can take your little WWJD wisdom. It's not that I don't know what I want in I want to be by my dad's side. I want I mean, that's the reason we moved them that in any way I could, but it wasn't really in the face of something in real time that was I don't know how much the apostle Paul He's telling you things to do that The way he starts it is so Paul. In verse 17, in the Lord...&quot; Well, now what can I say &quot;Okay. Tell me.&quot; &quot;...and I insist on it...&quot; &quot;Okay.&quot; &quot;...in the Lord.&quot; &quot;Just say it!&quot; He says the way you have been living that has God has called you to be. It is a product of unconsciously until now. Paul says, &quot;I give you in and I believe he says it to Elevation Church, A command, not a suggestion, on the authority of This is not TikTok truth. This is not a is something that God says from his echoing through the eons. Right now There comes a point in your life and there comes a challenge to become what buried. I believe this year is my year and your that we don't even have the faith to pray for I believe this is your year in your life to see character development at a level like before. You're going to become the kind of person someone you can trust in this year. You're going in secret in public under pressure this year. not command it if he would not resource it. All right. I feel good now. I got my preach back by myself and hanging out with the family and have &quot;Do you.&quot; It usually is a phrase that gives us permission to be Like this. &quot;Oh, you're going to wear that? Well, do you. You like those? Do you.&quot; It You want to buy it? Buy it. Yeah, man, don't listen to them. Do you. You don't have I wonder, is that advice helpful, and when... next four weeks. I'm giving you fair warning evaluate the point at which...check this...we Nobody in here wore a diaper to church unless I hope, yet at one time that's what you ran in here over the age of 18 that I'm aware of hands today unless it's a sandwich and a bag of Nobody in here today over the age of there's a physical ailment. I understand I say. Nobody is going to go in their something that's mashed up, but at one Should you? Because that's what I We almost have elevated authenticity to the to give ourselves permission, not to make progress in areas of our lives. I just went through awkward on purpose. At one time you wore a yet people still come to church and say, That's fine, because Jesus did tell Peter, &quot;Feed I insist on it in the Lord. It's so funny they hear because you get fed... &quot;I left that Or maybe you didn't chew The Bible says, &quot;He who comes to me and hears is like a foolish man who built his house on Shouldn't he be stronger from the word that preacher said, &quot;The Word of God is like a can So, I hear Paul in Ephesians 1-3... Holly you're going to get January 22 for the didn't even tell her that the Lord gave me surprise her. So surprise. Here I am all the Paul is telling them what God did through the 4 where he starts talking about, &quot;Now that Some of the things he says in this passage He says that when we grow up through the unity community and his process, we will no longer expect to be fed without doing any chewing When I saw this connection, it kind of surprised infancy (check this out), you are tossed back by every wind of teaching and by the cunning and Isn't that true? Haven't you found that to be Haven't you noticed that? Like, in your own life, when there is an area or life is trying to grow you or challenges are what God is trying to teach you to do, it notice that he talks about the waves and the wind, which are both external metaphors for the What he says in the passage is not that our wind and waves. He says your spiritual growth and strength, your source, and your firm foundation, I prophesy over your life that God is going to do absence of any external challenge, for What I am prophesying in the name of Jesus is that trying to come up out of the soil, that will year, and you will not be moved anymore by all of So, I want to ask a question for you to consider. How has your instability in life been caused What waves are you blaming for the way you What wind are you cursing because you This is how the Lord led me to start the year: to tell you that you get to choose this year or continue to be stuck in the rut of what was been through, and because of what you've saying &quot;Do you&quot; as a general piece of advice is Find one of these church people who's in Follow them to their kid's sporting event and see I've met some of y'all in other locations You were lifting your whole hands in here, and I saw you at your kid's basketball game. So, if going to show up for the audition for the role One time a preacher told me, &quot;Hey, &quot;Okay.&quot; He said, &quot;And just be you.&quot; I said, tell me. I need to get with God. If I show I'm not saying I have multiple personalities, but I'm saying I'm affected by Oh, the me in the morning is not Let me talk a little bit about this I'm just setting y'all up this week. I January. A lot of us accept our default When I wake up in the morning, my first O God my Father.&quot; One man said, &quot;I 'Good morning, Lord.' I wake up and say, That's morning me. Not only is my breath bad Y'all brush your teeth? I have to I have to. I promise you I have to. there's going to be a meltdown by 10:00 What I'm learning not only from my life is that the awareness of how I start doesn't I cannot use authenticity as permission to sin. I can't just wake up and think a certain and just call it being real. He didn't say, &quot;Be real.&quot; He said, &quot;Be righteous.&quot; &quot;Oh, no. I'm just saying what I &quot;I'm just speaking my mind.&quot; What a horrible The book of your brain, which has been, by deceitful desires? That's the problem. &quot;Do you.&quot; Which me? The me that wants or the me that will thank me in 10 years for &quot;Do you.&quot; Which one? The one that's going to the next five years? The me I don't want to see &quot;Yeah, just do you.&quot; Just do me, I believe there is a power in Christ for you to I want to be like I was created for.&quot; So, I wake up in the morning. I have to get to texts first thing in the morning. I can't what I think and what I feel first thing in chapter 7, and see what God says. I have a little gratitude journal. I have to the morning so I don't just start thinking about day in a deficit, all day running around thinking enough energy, unless I start somewhere else. I did me. It almost killed me. I did me, but I I did me. That's too small of an apartment That apartment doesn't have any electricity. That So, I came with a New Year's but in the Lord...that you are being You are not supposed to like new and you don't have to like it at first to do 2,100-and-something workouts since we built the When we met, I was so inconsistent in I'm just really not one of these guys who comes in around to it.&quot; I told him that. I was doing me. you know what? They got in there and helped me and been eight years now that I've done my workouts, I'm not bragging. You're like, &quot;Why out. Don't come up here bragging about to hear all this.&quot; I'm telling you, I for all my life. Even the other day, I was people who just likes to work out.&quot; Then If I've been doing that for, like, eight years... You're not supposed to really start working probably, is about the earliest you want to my life that I've been doing it. So I am a My default wasn't to do that, but my default is Paul says to put off the and put on what he calls the attitude of Christ. I can't see it like a jacket. I can't see it can't see it like New Balances. I can't see it but I have the decision to make every Every day, every hour, every moment I am deciding, year. Do you, the one who was made new in the we're going to do some study in the text here. In like God, and then in verse 23, he says the old Let's really look at both of those verses. In order to see ourselves as God sees us is not debate. It's a matter of practice. So watch this. by the deceitful desires...what you think you want, you should want, what people spend millions of had it you would be happy, all of the images you make you happy that is really empty at the bottom He says that self is being corrupted and to put Oh, I like that, that they both start One is being corrupted and one was created. or when you reach for the pills because that's the you manipulate situations or when you spend until in real life or when you find yourself holding When you do those things, which and you say, &quot;That's just how I am,&quot; and at the heart of the New Testament to be like God, and then in verse 22, that the old That means my daily decision is Why this blesses me so much is that it lets that at my core I'm a new creation in Christ. you ripped open this frame, if you ripped open appearance that you see, at the core of that would In true righteousness, not self-righteousness, Created to be like God. Not to be god. That's us have been trying to do that keeps us over our lives. We keep trying to decide, when it doesn't work and when we're weary, we to be god. You were created to be conformed to to be new, but you are being corrupted When your mind has been corrupted long enough with which Ephesians 4 addresses very the issues you struggle with more than So now when you act up and sin and Now you are using self-awareness as a Paul gets right up in the middle of it, and he's I'm like, &quot;Paul, I am not Jesus. Jesus is the the first and the last. I'm not even a letter in the omicron...he's all of it. I can't do So, that's where I want you to go to get I am sending back to the pit of in our culture a few years ago: &quot;Live The truth is in Jesus. He is the way, the Father without him. You can't be right with God You can't make it without him. It is his breath in grace that justifies. It is he who raises up one not me. I don't speak my mind; I speak Jesus. I by what I see; I live by faith in the Son of God. So, I'm doing me, but it's not the &quot;me&quot; the inside. It's the &quot;me&quot; that's coming up kill. It's the &quot;me&quot; that drama can't distract. So do you...the new you. Yeah, the new you, the Not the one that takes three weeks to that says in the middle of my sentence, &quot;Oh, y'all. That's not me. That's not the me I me into in 2023. It's a new me, 2023.&quot; Yeah, it flowing in it. This is your year to break away There is a new you, and guess what? Imagine yourself free. God knows that you. Imagine yourself whole. God knows that you. not respond to every feeling that passes through When I see myself how God sees me and come it's new to me, but not to God. It's new to me, but not to him. One time, he was calling and the prophet Jeremiah was full of I met this fellow last year on Burchard. He does a great group He was saying these three things and I identified with every single one of them. to do you at the lower level. First, you say, Third, &quot;I'm not like them.&quot; Let's break How many of you had a challenge in 2022 that God was calling you higher, but you didn't My hand was the first one up, and because you either didn't listen or you just want Second one: &quot;I don't have that.&quot; Raise your hand Yeah. You could say that health, education. What else? Y'all probably are way more dysfunctional than me. Give me not true. That's very sarcastic. What Oh, be consistent. I liked &quot;resist it&quot; better, because that's what I think. Like, &quot;'Greater is I don't know how to fight this.&quot; When you've been don't know what I'm talking about. When you've it's really hard for you to believe you can that what I just said struck a chord. Just do You're such an angel, and I &quot;I don't know how to resist it. I don't when I started my workouts (this is so corny), every time I worked out because I thought that was 7 years old down there. I'm a grown man with a I filled that sucker up this year. I ran out of blue stars and had to start using because I'm changing. I'm changing. &quot;Oh, maybe I am. Maybe I can be one. Maybe I can get in this area. Why can't I be consistent in I control my tongue in this situation. Why can't decision Monday. Why can't I do it again Tuesday? you know how to be consistent. You're here at how you do it! Now do it again and do it again! That wasn't true. You know how to be It is not knowing what to do; it is doing what not fussing at you. I'm just saying I don't my life either. I struggle with it, but by don't know how. I don't have it. I don't have like that.&quot; Don't you think I felt like that &quot;I don't know how to teach you how in all of the sports I played and nothing I don't know how, but I know how to support you. I my area of competency the discipline you need giftedness and calling.&quot; So I do know how, and if I'll look it up on YouTube. I could look up anything. I'll ask Then the biggest lie of all: &quot;I'm not like them.&quot; &quot;Man, they have a good marriage because their My dad wasn't around.&quot; &quot;I'm not like those deal with money because they grew up around &quot;They know how to pray because they grew up in Some of you are here for the first Sunday of this been feeling like, &quot;I don't fit in. I don't Why are people standing up and sitting down and and sitting down? And how long does this sermon Oh, we are all corrupted. Go with them in the parking lot. You might off the church property if I preach long Don't let anybody intimidate you and grow into what God gave you. We're all struggling. We'll talk about it sometime. One time I'll tell and then we'll cry over it, and then we will That's not where we're staying.&quot; So, God wanted Jeremiah to go preach, and the Bible says in Jeremiah 1:4, The word of the Lord existed before the world You know how the book of Genesis says, &quot;In &quot;In the beginning was the Word, and the So, when Jeremiah says, &quot;The word of the Lord came to me,&quot; it wasn't just advice he got. It wasn't just something he thought he would showing up and saying, &quot;Jeremiah, I've given from the north, and I want you to preach to and do it through your tears. and there are going to be challenges involved, He said, &quot;Before you were born, before Before this world got ahold of you, before you got in this state, this emergency situation of, before you were molested, before you any of that happened to you, before the mistake, the addiction gripped you, God said, &quot;I knew He knew you'd be 36 and single. He knew you'd be be melancholy. He knew you'd need a job. He they'd walk away. He knew you. You didn't know he saw it coming. He said, &quot;I Before any of the crap happened, God your intellect. I see your integrity even when if you don't leave and walk away. I how strong you're going to be. I see the kids 10 years from now, talking about, &quot;Here's what I almost did, but and he brought me to church to &quot;I knew you. I created you So I want you to take off what happened to you. Take off the story you've been telling yourself. Put it all at the foot of the cross Christ who paid the price for your sins We're going forward now. We're not talking turning it into something miraculous. baby. It's ready to rise. That's why I brought Come up and build it! Come up start it! Come up and change it! Do it! Do it until it's second nature. Do it naturally comes out of your mouth. Do it awkward. Do it clumsy. Do it over. Do it. Do the new you, the one God You're a good person. You have a What you've been calling your personality is just about to release potential in your life this year what the Lord said. &quot;Before you were born, You think you know you? You You know what you've experienced. You know the person you're sitting next to? You don't know what they would do. They don't know what they would do in a You don't know what they could be. You've only You don't know them. God knows them. That's the one I want to do this year, and it's lie...I'm pretty opinionated about myself. Somebody asked me for a meeting the &quot;I can only meet at 6:15 a.m.&quot; But I never read in the book of Ephesians I only read about the old self and the new &quot;I'm not a mor... I'll see you at I got up 45 minutes early, did a lot of You could just do that. It would be amazing. get you to see is we're going to have to because your first instinct is going to be always If that's anger, if that's complaining, if if that's criticizing others... If that's how you naturally think you should do, but what feels the What God has put within you and spoken over Then when you find yourself outside of that, want to respond.&quot; &quot;Oh, I'm just a late person.&quot; how to calculate how long a task will actually leave. You are actually a very efficient person efficiency. Give God a praise, all of the So, I'm going to break it down, but watch &quot;I've called you. I've chosen you. I created watch Jeremiah's response. This is what we Sovereign Lord, I do not know He did all three of the things in one sentence. and I'm not like these people who what has been going through your mind His answer was in his excuse Verse 6: &quot;Alas, Sovereign Lord...&quot; That That word means he knows what's in you. You always accompanied by his enablement. Sovereign Then the Lord told Jeremiah (verse 7), to everyone I send you to and say whatever This is the word of the Lord. Receive it. &quot;...for I beginning of this year. The truest thing about Look at this. After he gave him the This is so beautiful. Thank you, Holy Spirit, rescue you,' declares the Lord. Then the mouth and said, 'I have put my words in Now do it. Now go for it. Now begin it. God is going to give it to you as you go. you don't know how. I know you don't have it. He It is in obedience that potential is there are new beginnings trying to crack through What we want to do right now is set the atmosphere to do this year. I want you to join hands or either side of you. I want you to span the either side unless you're at the end of the row. Now look at me, every location...Elevation University City, Gaston, Toronto, Concord, Winston-Salem, Asheville, Morrisville, Ballantyne, and eFam online all over the world. Where are y'all from? Look at that. Can I tell sermon this way. I was going to open it this way, and it must be because of now. I hope you holding it for about two more minutes. I hope Yesterday, I went to watch Graham wrestle at second campus of Elevation Church. We were full. A man came to meet with me named John so I always called him &quot;John the He was attending the church at the time. He was &quot;The church is full. That's amazing, He said, &quot;You can't just contain it. If you there's nowhere for their friends to sit, that's I said, &quot;Cool.&quot; He said, &quot;I've got $300,000 in you to start a campus.&quot; I said, &quot;Great. I've got that you're looking for a church planter.&quot; He preaching at one. I can't preach at the other.&quot; He I looked at him and said, &quot;That's not me.&quot; Elevation Matthews, Elevation Elevation Riverwalk, Elevation University Elevation Concord, Elevation Lake Elevation Winston-Salem, Elevation Columbia, Greenville, Durham, Orlando, I didn't know we could reach That man looked at me and said, &quot;Pastor, you can do this two ways. If you try to follow If God says, 'Follow me' and you won't, he'll Do you want to break the Do you want to be in a position five years through the same dang thing that has been do it. Every week God gives me strength I'll in here in slippers if you have to, and I'll Father, in the name of Jesus, I release the become everything they were called to be, until we grow out of our grief, until we grow past it and I thank you that addictions will be broken I thank you that poverty will be eliminated from thank you that lost children who aren't living this Christmas, in Jesus' name. I thank you no your children. I thank you our church is growing Recession, you can do what you've got to do, but trust in God! We trust in the Almighty! He or think or imagine. Give God 23 seconds of great shout of praise! thank you for watching the Elevation Church e-fam our online extended family and join us so you don't miss a single video or live can also support the ministry by clicking the people around the world for Jesus Christ