Early in the band's career, Eddie made his producer and his interest in incorporating sound during a studio session Women and Children First Ed Wurlitzer electric piano through a tracked the anthemic And Since most fans would mistake Roth and the band were less keyboards on that occasion. However for live performances bassist one playing keyboards on the song. Ed noted that was my first me to play keyboards. keyboards and Eddie's status the eighties. The guitarist pinned some Fair Warning, like &quot;Hear even though he played them However, he sold the band and instrumental called &quot;Sunday which saw Van Halen utilize synthesizer and which was upcoming wedding to Valerie Bertinelli. The sessions from 1982's long simmering conflict to a head. Eddie had developed an amazing synthesizer and shared it Soon after the pair hijacked &quot;Dancing in the Street&quot;, a cover song that Ed disliked in the end. Eddie told Guitar World, Ted and Dave are happy and I wasn't. Fast forward to spring 1983, Eddie is in his new studio mess with those pesky keyboards, so he had the opportunity He felt he and Donn Landee especially Roth and Templeman, how a Van Halen record should really sound Instrumentals were but they never opened an album with one. In contrast to Fair Warnings, murky synthesized drone on which abruptly gave away to Foot out the Door. 1984 function as a lead in to although most people only free introduction to &quot;Jump&quot;. The song marked a significant revealed who was in charge As with much of Van Halen's history, there are two stories on the Ed told Steve Rosen that it Eddie Noodling that Landee but Michael Anthony's bass and Anthony wrote it. According to Dugan, the opening title track synthesizer passage created concert bass solo. Dugan stated Edward liked it the intro to the 1984 album. Eddie brought the first sounded like a mashup Get off my Cloud and Hall and band and Templeman. Ed admitted to Darryl Hall that Roth responded to Eddie you're a Guitar hero, no wants to hear you play the keyboards. They shelved the song for another year. In the spring of 1983, Ed Al, Dave and Templeman, including the same &quot;Jump&quot; demo prior year. Afterward, Templeman remarked I When Van Halen uses keyboards, they should sound nasty like Rock or Sunday Afternoon in the Park, they should shatter your senses This riff sounds like keyboard playing you'd hear between innings so I'm not crazy about it. Van Halen wasn't a pop band to Templeman. He wanted them to maintain persisted however and firmly mistaken. Later at 5150, Ed, Alex and Landee worked nonstop tracks for &quot;I'll Wait&quot; The first two were more rough sketches, but Templeman felt that &quot;Jump&quot; so he asked Roth to create some recording on a cassette tape. Roth headed out to work on his own odd way by having around in his 1951 Mercury Low lyrics in the back seat. Templeman remembers it differently in Dave's car outside of 5150 and forth. Dave wrote and Ted commented After witnessing a suicide broadcast live on local news, Roth came up with a title and the phrase, go ahead and jump in. An interview with Rock Video Roth said. I was watching television o'clock news and a fellow was Towers in Los Angelus and he He was going to perform the to do it. When I heard a large don't &quot;Jump&quot;, don't &quot;Jump&quot; I recorded it and it eventually albeit in a much more positive light. It's simple to interpret it positive type of affair from In fact, the song's original and at one point it had the it. Ed told writer Steven Rosen, we have a song called &quot;Go Ahead and Jump&quot;, which is a synthesizer We did it at an out of the mixing it right now. The jump Vroom and just for a joke, we thought we'd tried the car, we played it backwards and it After the song was a proven success. Roth's response when asked about later was. Man, there is so much music, so many snippets of good Who knows what is getting I don't remember from two years ago, maybe it wasn't right for two years ago. We hear all these bits and through them. We can't possibly &quot;Jump&quot; made it there. Eventually. At the time, MTV was gaining popularity programs like Night Tracks so a music video needed to be &quot;Jump&quot;. The band decided to take a &quot;Jump&quot; after investing a lot of Woman video from Diver Down In contrast to the other high it would be more personal. The director of the Pretty Woman video, Robert Lombard was brought in lighting director and Pete Angelus was there Pete Angelus operated one of the cameras, but we never used any of his how to operate a 16 millimeter Lombard had hired David Lewis, who actually shot the footage. Roth starting to mount Lombard the video in sections. Lombard said I didn't shoot the day. I was trying to keep the amongst them. David thought he was bigger Roth preferred more than He wanted more focus on Dave wanted the performance crazy like driving his chopped with midgets and girls in maids outfits. So he shot hours of footage. Lombard disagreed, so he had the video edited and footage taking it to Eddie I'm taking a stand here. If the video isn't gonna Eddie and Alex said, We're not gonna release this way. Two days later, I got fired. Noel Monk, their manager You don't go behind Dave's Never wanna see you again. The $6,000 or $600 according premier on MTV at midnight nominated later for three performance on February 25th, first and only Billboard number Clubs Karma Chameleon. It was the group's biggest hit weeks and one of the best selling over 3 million copies. Hardcore fans that may have driven poppy &quot;Jump&quot; were quickly third cut off of 1984. As two essential parts were the lyrics and the guitar riff. When Roth realized that he a car and was constantly asked partying cars and sex, he set out to do something ultimately inspired the which were based loosely on a and a dragster car called Vegas. Eddie provided the guitar riffage track Dog eat Dog. Back in 1981, Eddie's wife Valerie had Stewart and had given it to and at one point Eddie brought studio to record the engine's but it wasn't initially That idea came up later after Two months into the tour, the band shot the video for Philadelphia on March 19th, 20th, and 21st it would seem that Angelus had his revenge on Lombard by making sure the appeared in the &quot;Panama&quot; video, and yes, the footage of Roth being If you've ever wondered why flying, it was cheap stock footage and the band members are flying around. On the stage in the video, Michael Anthony's base shaped whiskey made its world Kevin Dugan said Anthony asked bass that would be kinda like Eddie with Frankenstein. The conversation occurred while JD back and forth, so what if we make your bass At first, Anthony thought but after a couple of days The first thing he did was get They made a handshake deal than three of them The bass got built and became The &quot;Panama&quot; video and single the song peaked at number 13 on Billboard Guitar builder, Steve Ripley had handed Eddie try out which Ed would use on Top Jimmy. Eddie was able to designate to either the left or right As a result, the opening harmonics, the chime like notes could right speakers, which the listener hears headphones. Top Jimmy started out as an Later Eddie would use the name In his score to the he also reused the original Fire, which appeared on Van Halen's in 2012. Top Jimmy represented one of the some conventional biographical than just conveying the front man of a band called was the top Jimmy in the song days running a Top Taco stand lot in Hollywood. Around the end of 1980, Roth joins Koneck circle of unknown financial benefactor hours establishment that at gallery due to its lack of Roth frequently performed with Pigs, and additionally, Jimmy did indeed possess The Zero Zeros regulars included LA's exploding punk and alternative scene, as well as notorious party John Belushi. Somehow Top Jimmy got the Lucille Ball. Oh. That's my kind of music. You have Benny Goodman, Glen Miller, no Top Jimmy in the Rhythm Pigs. Zero Zero is where Roth Henry Rollins, who would later be instrumental Heat. For the Next Track long regarded as the ultimate Roth's lyrical inspiration Dig that steam a line from Marilyn's 1959 film Some like it Hot in which she blowing off steam while toting I wish I could have been that Considered one of 1984 Drop Dead Legs was also one 1984 and was another AC/DC inspired by AC?DC's Back in Black. I was grooving on that beat, although I think that whatever I to somehow is differently. Drop Dead Legs is almost a The descending progression is similar, but I also put a lot more notes in there. Some of those extra notes are Flying V outro solo, which according to him was rock guitarist Allan ed and Ted Templeman worked for Holdsworth. The Holdsworth Eddie Templeman with drama and rumored betrayal. Eddie wanted to play with his hero. Templeman wanted a record he create his own music with In the end, no one got what they wanted. Post-release of the mentioned Eddie would say Allan was impatient him to be free to work on the album. He never wanted Ed to play Both Allan and Templeman agreed each other. Commercially Road Games failed, but fans of Holdsworth Holdsworth album. If you wanna learn more about rockstar trying to help his idol, I will add links in the description, but heads up all of it The true spirit of Van Halen vengeance. It's raunchy. roadhouse worthy riff would learing scenario of scholastic smut. &quot;Hot for Teacher&quot; would be the 1984 and was recorded in the Teacher You can hear the Van Halen two classic songs. One of Cactus and their Parchman Farm inspiration for the And it sounds like Alex copped from Billy Cobham Quadrant Four. Depending on who you there are varying stories of sound the way they did. According the first five seconds of Alex exhaust of Ed's Lamborghini. He said, engineer Donn Landee found a way the drums to the sound of the an issue at 5150, Alex used electronic Simmons over. If you dig around on the internet, you will find many people who beginning, but it's just Their theory is that Alex Simmons drum kit so that the almost identical and so stuttering, idling hot rod Alex did say the drums were answered explicitly if it had So in the beginning of &quot;Hot for Teacher&quot;, do we hear a Lamborghini or Roth and Ed both publicly little to do with the sound of 1984, but it is worth noting that that Ted was actually in the of &quot;Hot for Teacher&quot;. So maybe there was a studio and the Simmons drums, and But then Alex figured out a way an engine. Backing this theory is a quote from Eruption Conversations with speaking about Alex, when he started putzing around holy shit, it really does sound You can only pull that off It's so unique on regular drums, Eddie once again played his which allowed him to switch and loud parts of the song. There is a rumor that Ed played Anthony and he had to dumb it play it live. Ed lifted the song's bombastic Halen's, 1977 Warner Brothers demo songs. Voodoo Queen. By the way, the main riff from Voodoo Queen of Fair Warning. One story credits Roth whose language teacher until Roth with the idea to give the Dave set up a little classroom and cans on some school desks. Landee set up a mic and rolled wisecracking and knocking over However, according to some, the idea for the Hot for Roth. For years we have all thought Dave and Pete Angelus's vision, but according to a few this may not be true. Don't forget Roth was in before the shoot started. it was his vision for the During the eighties, Kramer was the go-to producer Halen for Van Halen. He produced &quot;Jump&quot; &quot;Panama&quot; Hot produce Roth solo videos. Kramer storyboarded the found the location of Leonardo John Marshall High and did all even comedian Phil Hartman did was a close friend of Kramer's. I'm nervous and my socks are too loose. Kramer also put together including cinematographer Daniel Pearl, who started his career with has since worked with everyone N Roses to the Rolling Stones. Kramer also knew it was key designer and hired Ron Volz. Volz was responsible for the the early seventies and many and nineties, including Kramer also brought in who had helped cast and Frieburg and Roth would clash, which led to Frieburg being had been done. After the shoot, Kramer brought in &quot;Panama&quot; video to put it all together. Willowby told me that the owl, not a whale as reported elsewhere. Did Roth and Angelus's add Absolutely. Things like wardrobe and Roth and Pete, but the video's vision and Kramer and his talented taking credit for Hot for taking credit for Goodfellas Some other facts about Eddie gave one of the guitars the young Eddie in the video. Hitchcock would sell the In late 2022. It went up on eBay for $220,000 actual guitar in the video sold According to the kid that played at 10:00 AM during the shoot, Alex gave him a beer and even though he was only you might remember him from Some Van Halen fans believe chalkboard when deciphered. It supposedly spells out Each number corresponds with Four of the five people we video knew nothing about it, but one that could know best true. The $200,000 video September 23rd, 1984 and big brother would play it Committee conservatives and Washington Wives. Wives of the political elite clips imagery of scantily educators. The Parents Music Resource Tipper Gore, wife of Democrat Al Gore article titled The Smut and when my eight-year-old asked off her clothes and school, I started paying attention to On September 19th, 1985, congressional hearings began music lyrics. First to speak a Republican from Florida. She held up a series of quote covers by Def Leopard and WASP. video &quot;Hot for Teacher&quot; TV. I brought along two videos which I believe are presentation which have caused the furor. We will show them. The first When it was stopped right in scattered laughter and applause That video. None of that. That video is called. No wait, no, wait a second. Senator Hawkins, just a minute. No, this is a very large crowd beyond the capacity of this room. We're not gonna have any no demonstrations of any kind. I thank the chairman. The title of that tape was Hot each senator a copy of the distribute them beyond &quot;I'll Wait&quot; arguably is the closest the Roth incarnation of Van and the only time Roth sing Wait was another track that Ted Templeman and Ed. Templeman humming Argent's Hold your Head Up up your head up. That division remains today the song even came to be. The song was one of the but by the fall of 1983, it still needed to be Ed championed it while on the other side, Templeman hoped it would go away, but Ted understood the passion and Landee, so he decided he should be a by laying down the track. be frank, it hadn't grown on me since I April. It's slogged along Maybe I had it all wrong, but I just didn't love Templeman gave the nod to track, but Roth couldn't come up with Ed's keyboard track. Then Roth suggested bringing friends, Doobie Brothers, songwriting legend Michael according to McDonald, Templeman gave him a copy of he created the lyrics and himself singing over the Templeman had Roth and McDonald sure Roth was good with none of his lyrics were then Roth's story of how he looking at a Calvin Klein ad could be Roth Spin to add story later. McDonald would be rightfully and his name was not According to Templeman, the ball was dropped somewhere but who did it is unknown. Ed's He believed Templeman secretly met in Templeman's office and tried to hide this from Ed Ed said Ted was using a little He held under his desk to improvising to it. Ted I saw Ted and Dave in the something to him on this what is that? And they don't worry about it. So when Ed stated he didn't Templeman stands by the fact co-wrote the song. Maybe the story Ed tells My speculation is that maybe the tape of McDonald's singing guide for Roth, maybe Diamond Dave didn't want Eddie to McDonald, so they steered clear of with the lyrics and melody. make tremendous money from it, saying it's probably one of the ever done in my entire career. Ironically, in 1978, McDonald and Ed had contributed Templeman produced debut McDonald was credited and Ed wasn't. The Warner Brother execs winning formula of &quot;Jump&quot;, so they decided to rush I'll 1984. There was not enough but it still hit number 13 The intro to the second to instrumental departure for the band. Eddie started the song with a reminiscence of Jimmy Page last stand. Under Eddie's guitar work, you can hear Alex Fast ride Rush's Neil Peart in the except Alex's beat was more up. Before going into the main song, Eddie ripped a series of wicked arpeggios, not unlike Rush's, Alex Al hammered out a Peart As most fans know, when Eddie got the idea he hummed and whistled it closet of a hotel room As mentioned earlier, hints of Girl Gone Bad were the breakdown of Somebody Get Me a Doctor. But Ed has mentioned that saying, I often dreaded playing the the B stringing always sounds I play. House of Pain. One of the band's heaviest forms even before the group initially signed with Warner Bros in 1977, the song was once again demoed, but it did not make the Additionally, it was included in the mix sessions, but the classic bashed out come to be until Alex had version should be recorded for more flowing arrangement. With only nine songs on the album there has been speculation but left off. Eddie confirmed this in a 1983 claiming that they had However, Eddie didn't like putting on record because he felt that you record was or you might blame Templeman. Ed had plenty of tunes. He told Editor-in-Chief for Musician magazine, John Stix. I wrote 15/16 tunes and we put should we use this one or that one? The guys got at me because I'm serious. Ted Templeman They were seriously pissed Quit writing. Wilson Pickett's. In the Midnight Hour was the confirmed to have been recorded. Roth and Templeman wanted to Diver Down album, but Eddie had protested. The song was brought up again some accounts was even one of on at Eddie's new studio. Again, Eddie vetoed the idea of if it was recorded, it remains unreleased, Roth suggested Just a Gigolo, Other Van Halen tracks rumored anytime any place eat thy you. By late October, 1983, Producer Ted Templeman believed so it was time to master Templeman had still not received Landee. Templeman had an analog but the quality would be those. Templeman went over to 5150 met by Ed saying that Landee had know where he was. Landee was actually on the walkie-talkie. Once Ed got rid of Templeman, Landee would come back into continue mixing. Ed said this game of cat and unhappy with the mix. Templeman was concerned about not the least that Landee and snorting copious amounts of Templeman. Valerie Bertinelli would verify step in and help. Templeman said she was just husband than the tapes. It got so heated that physical. You like that old man. I don't want a piece of you, I want the whole thing. Oh, the September, 1984 Hit Parader reported reports described in alleged fight and the band's longtime evidently Templeman, who is also a vice president the band's record label egotistical attitude. This forced the ax slinger physical force. The confrontation may sever between Templeman and the band. Actually, the situation had been A West Coast source reported. The band produced virtually they only put Templeman's feeling of commitment. Ted wasn't thrilled by being process and guessed there was their parts. It's something that will months. The band would neither confirm Templeman Van Halen feud. With Templeman not only but also Warner Brothers vice president, he had to find a solution. During the second week of November, Templeman grabbed Warner Brothers Sunset Sound with the 16 quickly as they could, they Templeman felt Landee and Ed never deliver their master tapes. Finally, Landee showed up with the master tapes, but according to Templeman, He was just manic and all Landee handed over the tapes finished. Ed said later nobody was They thought we were crazy Ted thought that Donn had lost to burn the tapes, that was all bs. We just wanted an extra week with everything. It should be noted that on Landee would again be accused hostage, but this time the accusation Mick Jones, Jones said, Landee locked himself in the to burn the tapes. They resolved the issue Ultimately, it's unclear whether Ted 1984 album in part or in whole, and it was no secret that Ed produce Van Halen the way Ed saw fit. So did Templeman actually Surprisingly, the band member closest to didn't do much. In March of 1984, several newspapers ran an words from Temple Man's who said. After five years of compromising, This time there was a big mix the record. It was mixed almost entirely Ed and the engineer. Donn Landee did all the mixes radically different, I think, than any of the other Van Halen albums. There are a lot more subtleties, The most abominable sounding second one, and that's cause It was thin and vapid sounding with it. There are some fabulous songs because they made no impression sonically. So we started getting When asked if Templeman would Roth said. Who knows what it'll be I know, but I'm not gonna tell you. I don't want to get anybody According to the paper, Templeman could not be For the most part, Van Halen has never been Many felt the artwork for at least for that one Margo Nahas created the painting but Nahas had initially Van Halen. More specifically, the band first asked Nahas chrome women dancing in various which she refused. Two Warner Brothers called to husband Jay took which included the smoking angel baby. They immediately knew and chose cherub. By the way, the same year, her husband designed Prince's Purple Rain. Oh no, let's go. Nahas created the artwork in her friend's son Carter Helm. Before Van Halen was in the picture, Helm sat enjoying a pack While Nahas made the artwork. It was the only illustration herself in all her years It was initially commissioned reference art publication Then it became a greeting card, and finally it became the But until Van Halen came along, To this day, Margo still owns She smartly only licensed selling them the copyright. She gave the original Before the 1984 album was released, Van Halen's manager Noel Monk, fretted over possible Nahas found that notion funny painting was innocuous. She said, the way I envisioned it in rebel cherub came down to earth Knowing it was wrong, he glanced up to heaven to The album cover would be and the cigarette was airbrushed release. The speculation was that the image as a kid. Never wanting Roth would use a photo of himself wings for the cover of his Guitar legend Eddie Van today. On on October 6th, 2020, when Margot heard the devastating death, she started to cry and felt alone. She had protected the Trying not to let anyone copy cause, but by that time, she felt the angel belong to didn't want to be alone and She took out one of the angel baby's eyes. She then posted it on Facebook they weren't alone. The inside cover of 1984 An ashtray or maybe assembly They are par cans part of the The futuristic numbers were Roth Idea. He wanted them to look like which was the pseudonym for cartoonist, and writer. Before Van Halen's album was released, there was only one thing that number 1984, George Orwell's dystopian social released in 1949. the band's decision to 1984 stylized in Roman numerals nothing to do with the classic book. Reportedly the band was insistent complete the album for The title 1984 was intended label to reinforce further the be coming out any sooner than Critical reviews for 1984 even with the most read Rolling Stone. In 1978, when Rolling Stone magazine album, the writer said, mark Van Halen is going to be disgusting, and they'll follow deep purple the toilet. In contrast, the magazine's four out of Van Halen is one of the smartest, toughest bands in rock and roll. According to Eddie sympathy Halen's album from the number album was projected to go Jackson burned his hair commercial. Eddie said when that happened, everyone was going, oh, poor We'd better go buy his record. Hardcore fans were split. On the one hand you had the &quot;Panama&quot; and &quot;Hot for you have the more poppish Wait. Mainstream music fans came to 1984 is the second of two Van rare RIAA Diamond status, selling over 10 million copies The other record is their it's estimated 1984 has worldwide. By far the biggest sorry, Sammy. But the since no certifications