The pandemic, if not anything, has definitely to assess their IT infrastructures and think and to us common folks, to leverage this time to Not just that, google trend suggests that interests in October this year alone. Hence, we bring to you the for the year 2021 that might give you a leg up purely subjective and does not claim to be the your suggestions in the comment section below. to hit that bell icon to never miss an update from let's get started. So in no particular order, first with this unprecedented pandemic in the name of But this brings with it a lot of cyber threats of collaborative tools as well as availability of this, Cybersecurity professionals are the unsung ranging from attack mitigation to penetration renowned certifications like the CEH and is the official training partner. Apart like the OSCP, CISSP, CISM and GIAC. Now these but it all starts to come together and make sense or 29 lakhs per annum in India from companies and NetApp. You could also defend these companies acquiring the skills from the Advanced Executive and Edureka. Next, we have Cloud Architect. Now, over the past decade, there has hardly been an area in IT which has generated as much IDC predicts an overall compounded five-year providers which sums up to 277 billion USD. service providers and organizations of attention and coverage from cloud certification deliverers such as AWS, GCP, VMware and Azure. Now, industry which lends itself to a really high and 30LPA in India to skilled professionals who Edureka has a plethora of instructor-led training Cloud Computing with E&amp;ICT Academy IIT Kanpur aiming manage robust, secure, scalable and dynamic cloud IT Service Management. Now, the global growth is Now, this leaves the GDP about 6.5% At an economic despair like this, stakeholders that the person handling their products has the to define, plan and deliver the products this level of proficiency than a certification! Now, this field. You have PMP, PRINCE2, CSM, CSP, PMI-ACP, show your competency as a manager but also bump using these certifications you are not As you can see from the wide number of job-openings from companies such as Sunsilk and PnG to technical companies such as SEIMENS and Ubisoft. Most companies are looking at DevOps as a whole with the increased demand of rapid developmental of application deployment, it is only obvious that to grow in the coming years. Now obtaining a DevOps not just to validate their skill set but also gain that competitive edge over other competitors for the same position. Now the top certifications in the market are for Jenkins, Docker, Puppet, Chef and Kubernetes. Now Edureka's DevOps Masters Program Apart from that, there are also certifications from Solutions Expert Certification and the AWS DevOps Engineer Certification. Now the average salary for a Certified DevOps Expert goes up to 155,000 And when you are certified as a DevOps Expert or the companies such as Honeywell, Wipro, Cisco, Dell and IBM. Next on our list, we have DataBase Admin Certifications Now, over the past three decades we but there has never been a question that database is a crucial component for all computing tasks. Now DBA certifications might not be as bleeding-edge as cloud computing or computer forensics but savvY, talented and knowledgeable DBAs and IBM's Professional Database Administrator, Certified Professional, SAP HANA and Salesforce are some of market's leading certifications in DBA. Now, in part this conveys the maturity of database as a technology and also its integral contribution to many computing tasks in companies such as Oracle, IBM, SAP, Salesforce and Society Generale. So, DBAs and Database professionals get and 15 lakhs per annum in India. Next on our list, we have Digital Marketing. Now globally, the Digital Marketing industry is worth 190 billion dollars, be a part of this lucrative industry. Now there are a couple of certifications in Digital Marketing, namely the Google Analytics IQ or the You also have HubSpot Content Marketing Marketing with specialization in Digital Now these certifications are designed to make Social Media, Pay-Per-Click Marketing, E-mail and Mobile Marketing. All of these hired in companies such as Etsy, Ebay, Walmart and Amazon for more than comfortable incomes. Next on our list, we have Networking Certifications, pros and cons of Networking Certifications, let's break this one down a little bit. Now simply put, networking helps you assess, sustain and configure you evaluate and alleviate risks on your system as well as select the technologies and network design which will help prevent and defend, also resolve which definitely puts networking professionals Now you could do it, too, if you got certified Network+ as well as Red Hat Certifications. Now, Cisco, Tech Mahindra, Accenture and HCL for in India on an average. Next we have programming, IT domains expect you to have a strong grasp of This makes coding a very bankable prospect chance at that lucrative job offer. With new So 10 years down the line, the market will not be for you to act is right now. You can learn any so on and so forth. And all of this is available Amazon, Facebook, Ubisoft and Google are ready to in India, based on skills, experience and geography, have Big Data and Data Engineering Certifications. It is redefining core competencies, core operations directly proportional to the increase in number of Some very popular ones are Cloudera Certified Big data Pro or IBM Big Data Engineer. Edureka also by industry experts and an advanced executive This takes you through the various tools and MapReduce, Yarn, Sqoop, Flume, etc, in a highly land market giants like Facebook, Walmart, Societe Generale 36 lakhs in India. Finally on our list, we Now, as humans what makes us so Now, that is how we find out solutions to most of idea of occupying our brain function in the more with the monotony. This is what makes AI such seen a growth of 344% in the trends in the Engineers is about 146,000USD. Now AI and is more to come. I'm talking about Data Scientists, come under the same umbrella. Now market leaders and Google have hiked up maximum salary figures variety of AI and ML certifications along with Machine Learning with E&amp;ICT Academy NIT, Warangal Unsupervised and Supervised Learning, Natural are penetrating the industry at an unprecedented flow on this one. So, with that I am closing the are a few Honourable Mentions which we just had to Business Analyst Certifications, Business Intelligence Certifications which almost made it on the top 10 certifications for the year in the comment section below. Now remember,