Mario Kart is one of the most well-known video Its broad appeal, low barrier of entry and getting gamers and non-gamers and actively placing it shoulder-to-shoulder any game that can bridge that gap is special, and still maintain a high skill ceiling that and item strategy. And as I say these things, I "What are you talking about?" This might not For some, Mario Kart is a dice roll. No matter the Blue Shell will claim you eventually, among For others that pour hours into getting better worst attacks and help you strategize luck is always a factor. The famous "Get We've all been there, but I wanted to has had a massive cultural impact and has I had a wide range of questions going into this long? How has nothing been able to dethrone it? say it does, wouldn't this game be frustrating Mario Kart really that competitively viable? reasonably? Of course, the skill gap cannot be a chance against players better than me? These and I was unaware of them as I would play matches. and I received some really satisfying answers to say that it made me appreciate Mario Kart on a far This is not going to be your typical Mario Kart going to take a trip through Mario Kart's history back for more. Some of us fell in love when it was when we realized what made these games these things, and in this video, I'm gonna delve and this is why I love Mario Kart. The game that started it all was released that kart racers would shamelessly imitate and this was unlike anything else anyone it did have at least one thing over F-Zero Super Mario Kart was actually born from that on the Super Nintendo, though this meant that to F-Zero. This also led to Super Mario Kart more accessible. Utilizing the same technology Hideki Konno and Tadashi Sugiyama. Konno went on close relationship with the series ever since. another game that used Mode 7 extensively. F-Zero Masato Kimura. This overlapping experience technology of the Super Nintendo are what In hindsight, Mode 7 did hinder the course design certain level themes are re-used throughout each that each level feels very similar in terms of with slopes, hills, or anything like that. though, as it was just what was available credit - the courses utilize its level elements to The core mechanics of Super Mario Kart (and things - items, track knowledge and drifting. players of varying skill levels, and have since in discussions of Mario Kart's balancing and heart, but I'll go over them briefly. A mushroom to cut through off-road sections and whatnot, to hit other racers, the Red Shell automatically be blocked unless they have a defensive item of which can be thrown in front of or behind you as you turn invisible for a little while and steal appear in the single player Grand Prix mode. boost of speed, allowing you to take shortcuts and and the rarest item in the game, the lightning to 8th place, and the chances of it appearing the effects are devastating. Everyone is and you can even run them over in this state and around the shock just as much as you can wait a star if they're anticipating it, so you can difficult portion of a track. All of these but these applications are so well-rounded, since become staples across each game, and their own versions of almost every item listed. Super Mario Kart also has items that would seldom for example, were a mechanic that only appeared entries if you will, and then later made their your top speed. The more you have, the faster you hit. 10 coins will get you to your maximum speed, you can have extra coins in the event that you get coins actually force every player of different their speed up, which is a great way of leveling where the most powerful items are less likely to good at collecting coins, then items aren't gonna from the series until they eventually capped your great move for the sake of balance. Another the feather, and when it did, it was exclusively feather allows you to jump over hazards, off-road The item doesn't appear in Mario Circuit or in Ghost Valley, where you can shave off a lot As is the case with any racing game - practice over and over again will you eventually be unlock the Special Cup. Each course has tight cornering in check, which is why the drift Kart's drift does not function at all like you and it has a bit of a learning curve. By then go into a power slide. This is par but the power slide is primarily meant for to use it sparingly, otherwise you'll slide into order to correct your drift is do another hop, of your turn to straighten yourself out. If your sideways momentum from the drift and drive though obtuse and not really conveyed at all in and the game can have incredibly precise and fun how to play well. Other factors that contribute the accelerate button around turns, and using your soon as you get them in the hopes that you catch floor and ceiling both come from the driving, With that all being said, this is not my all. If you ask me, F-Zero is the better Super the control scheme of Super Mario Kart is more despite having its own merits. I mean, world demonstrations of its controls. I'm not gonna It's just so different now compared to what the levels in this game are flat-out annoying, stage hazards rather than genuine tests of a certain multi-colour road. But hey, a result of the hardware constraints, so I It's also worth mentioning that the game is you're playing against a friend. By working forcing yourself to improve at the game, but also because they straight up cheat! Every character items, some of which can't even be obtained the egg. I suppose it isn't as bad as Mario Kart about that soon enough. It is worth it to win if These animations were removed in the international depictions of drinking alcohol in games at the Bowser pour an entire bottle of champagne down drunk when she's sipping from the bottle. Nintendo their policies be damned. I could definitely Speaking of which, there's one last course to iconic track in Mario Kart history - Rainbow limitations meant that only a few level themes the track layouts changing between them. However, a single track at the end of the Special Cup, with track being one of this game's greatest moments. should you overshoot a turn or make a mistake. here. Not even items can save you if you fall amongst the colours and the stars, the pressure achievement - a culmination of your skill at to begin with, and few games in the series really context. None of the games were as punishing in the Grand Prix only allows a finite amount of are straight up eliminated from the Grand Prix if Rainbow Road through skill made experiencing Because there was nothing else like it, Super Mario Kart became the standard for Any subsequent game in the genre would be everything Mario Kart established, and while Super Mario Kart did inspire a it wouldn't be until Mario Kart 64 where the genre Mario Kart 64 was first revealed in 1995 as Super this point, pre-rendered 3D graphics had appeared games, and Nintendo opted to use this technique as race would have made the Nintendo 64 catch fire. the final game. Ultimately, it led to Mario Kart resemble the beautiful 3D renders of this era the Nintendo 64 era, and Mario Kart 64 was pretty to accurately translate the look and feel of those sprites. On a modern display, these visuals may not how they were meant to look. As is the case were usually played on a CRT, and the difference pixel to create what we'd call a "scanline" effect that we're used to seeing now on LCD screens and Country look so much better on CRTs and strengthen in real time. It might sound like I'm going on visual style of Mario Kart 64 utterly fascinated about how good this style looked back in the day, Mario Kart 64 makes several strides in improving fully 3D kart racer, meaning that level geometry the original game sorely lacked. Slopes, ramps, aesthetical design that extends to the layout and possibilities, Mario Kart 64 has a bouncier and original game, which the developers compared to would eventually evolve into what is now game no longer feels like you're rotating the you drift outward and can tilt the Control widen the trajectory of your drift. If you tilt you can charge a mini-turbo. Once your smoke a burst of speed, signaled by a voice line from technically in Super Mario Kart, Mario Kart 64's of the most important in a kart racer. Drifting it was about optimizing them for bursts of speed, even faster. The importance of the precision of and especially more beginner friendly mechanic, when it comes to being the fastest. And tell by the impact it left on Mario Kart and kart Though Mario Kart 64 is very much the same game in and the game offers way more variety as a whole. physical element that the flat courses lacked, game so much fun to play. You can use these probably contributed to the removal of the feather but then comes a hectic loop with Moo Moo Farm, Beach, and the wide open terrain and annoying Frappe Snowland is one of my favourite levels your advantage on multiple occasions. It feels of the road. Wario Stadium tests you on your as does Choco Mountain. Toad's Turnpike forces you and DK Jungle Parkway have multiple distinct including those tight bridge sections Speaking of which, let's talk about items. a few new items have been implemented. and red shells all have tripled variations, and both offensive and defensive buffs as chaotic for sure, but also simultaneously more allowing you to trail five banana peels behind This was such an impenetrable wall that they and had them rotate around you like the shells place to trick or otherwise block certain shortcut spam the effect of a mushroom over and over for a and closing the gap between you and first place. introduction of the Great Equalizer itself, the player in first has no choice but to submit to you can do to stop it. Everyone must submit to the least once during a race, and it quickly became where the conversation of skill versus luck truly possible, save all of your items for defense while come hit you, giving the other racers just enough item under the sun. It happens. The blue shell is skilled players to front run for the entirety and Mario Kart can be a more enjoyable experience for those that get hit by a blue shell, so long a natural part of each race. Just open your arms All of this makes Mario Kart 64 one of the drift mechanic is more accessible, and to the mini-turbo. The levels are great physical response to each bump in the the game became a staple for game nights around mode! While Super Mario Kart had its own what was to come. With Mario Kart 64, you and the arenas were more complex, giving you As a single player game, however... Mario Kart 64 Mario Kart's AI cheats in reference to their is on another level. Right, so in order to unlock you have to clear all of the cups on 150cc. difficulty balancing," to put it gently. Depending racers will speed up and slow down accordingly, as See what I'm getting at? This makes staying in the as it's very easy to accidentally swerve and then suddenly everyone catches up is a nightmare on the more difficult levels catching up to you if you make a mistake. Yoshi Valley is just... awful. I see what they in case you want to avoid items and other and there's always a fastest route to take anyway, On the plus side, reaching Rainbow Road is a Kenta Nagata composed the score for Mario man who composed and arranged the theme for The Wind Waker. Considering it was his first it's amazing just how much of an impact he left theme's decision to draw out the original Super sound of Rainbow Road's melody. A portion of associate with earning the sights and sounds of Rainbow Road in Mario Kart 64 is unique in that the longest track in the game, even if you do the a large portion of it. Rather than lacking guard the level is all about the core driving Especially after clearing levels that are much focused. You can just take in the joy of racing a course I regularly race on due to its length, but I still love revisiting it as both a reward, Despite its single-player quirks, Mario Kart racing as a bonafide video game genre, Super Mario Kart into something that and play. It established multiple mechanics and paved the way for how the series plays in next Mario Kart game deliberately took a step This is Mario Kart: Super Circuit, which and more of a sequel to Super Mario Kart, tracks and everything. There is certainly though, and it adapts every item from the banana bunch and the fake item boxes. some of which foreshadow the future of first Mario Kart game to explicitly show each are incredibly important to both high-level Mario viable in the first place, but the games don't Let's start at the beginning. The two previous character's stats by weight classes - light, end of the scale having specific advantages the manual provided a detailed breakdown of but also their performance on each track. which was kind of par for the course at the players today. Most people consider Bowser and top speed being the highest, but there's when learning how to play the game, plus they In Mario Kart 64, the lightweights are the fastest with their only real disadvantages being their making them susceptible to getting bumped around. making the lightweights the best by acceleration and their off-road traction and the middleweights - Mario and Luigi - it's not much of an issue. You can play When we get to the GameCube and beyond, we'll stats affect each game's balance, and your Now, there's another piece to this puzzle. actually display character stats in-game, neither the game or the manual tell you about. their weight classes, but there are more stats to been able to unearth them back then is through a Braking, Handling, Drift, and Off-Road. The referring to on the select screen is actually disgusting oversight. You might have thought looking at his stats in-game, but no. He's still most of the characters in this game are which makes sense, but the game certainly While it's clear to see how hard they messed communication persisted throughout several games, Other than that, I don't have much else to say is quite as tight as Super Mario Kart, but and in particular I love this game's Rainbow Road. but they instead make you bounce up in the potential if you know what you're doing. It's On top of these courses being pretty fun, courses as an added bonus. Super Circuit but this was restricted to the link cable, and four copies of the game to get the full long as Mario Kart is available on home consoles. any reason other than Pokemon, anyway. Also, to feature those plasticky models of the Nintendo With that, let's move on to the Double Dash. For the longest time, I considered drifting, item strategy potential, creativity, is still unlike any other Mario Kart game. That to be fair, is also part of the reason why The hook of Double Dash is the ability to and one of many karts, so long as the heaviest character in your combo. Each so you can mix and match items to see which Luigi get fireballs that come out like a shotgun Mario Kart 8 that rewards bad players with what this one is actually fair whilst still packing a items when they hit other karts, which is a highly to good use from time to time. Yoshi and Birdo spills out three items on the track for you and Luigi get a Chain-Chomp that drives for them path. The triple greens and triple reds have been just as the Golden Mushroom is reserved for Toad Giant Banana that spreads out into normal bananas explodes shortly after being thrown, and Bowser covers a lot of ground and stops at nothing to the very image of Bowser himself." Petey Piranha they can obtain any of the special items in item item and would rather roulette through all of them you can try that out! For me, it's more fun I like most. This would actually become the especially Mario Kart 7 and 8, just without To complement having two racers on your kart, you of your characters an item. You can swap drivers which item you want to use, and which you want item play in races. You also can't trail items in order to counter an item, you need to time you no longer get severely punished for being you flip over, and then you can immediately are the Bob-Omb and Blue Shell. It's enough of a but it also gives you enough time for a comeback. anymore. In previous games, you could prevent a but that has been removed in order to keep the game moving, in fact, and they keep Where things get truly fantastic is this you build up a mini-turbo by rocking the control build up much faster, and by snaking back and unprecedented speeds. The drift not only gives you - of which there are plenty in Double Dash - but In Double Dash, the karts also have this visceral, around courses feel exhilarating as you fight feeling with advanced techniques like the R-tech your kart essentially mini-turbo in a straight and you have what I believe is my favourite Mario Double Dash also has a lot of my favourite Sherbet Land and Dry Dry Desert are perfect just on open-ended terrain, but also along City introduce traffic into a stage in a more its two branching paths and offroad shortcuts. I a great indicator of their quality. Daisy Cruiser challenging track design, and that goes ditto showcase for this game's physics and what they add incredible. You drive up to the cannon, and then times even losing control of your kart due to sharp turns and heading over a bridge, only to Wario Colosseum only has two laps, but those laps Dino Dino Jungle is also fittingly difficult, hazards to avoid. Bowser's Castle follows in its penultimate test of our driving, before Rainbow the toughest Rainbow Roads to perform well on in they're used on turns that demand you you have to either risk using boost pads or this track will get you far, but man is it hard music once more. It feels great to drive among selling this feeling that you've ascended Double Dash's Rainbow Road feels like it was controls and drifting, which is probably why it The thing that really opens this game up its multiplayer capabilities. You have the but you also have the option to play co-op, with the kart throwing items. This fleshes out the you might think. While the player in the front other player items if need be, the player on the actually driving. They are the one that manages driver at all times to strategize. They also need both offensive and defensively, because once again depends on you. Most importantly, though, they are stick back and forth when their driver enters the driver, who can simply focus on driving and it also means that miniturbos can be more while the other player moves the stick left can also perform an exclusive move to co-op, on which trigger you press. You can do this DODGE RED SHELLS with good timing. This, in my hands down. It is a beautiful way to appreciate but also its strategy, something that is often player in the room has to do co-op, either, Co-Op also extends to battle mode, which features but also introduces Bob-Omb Blast and Shine with Double Dash's item balance. Bob-Omb Blast in window as you grab fat stacks of bombs and then Dash's maps have plenty of cover and routes for Tilt-a-Kart or the Nintendo GameCube, which For all of these reasons, Mario game in the series for a long time. But To begin with, let's talk about hidden stats Dash is mostly accurate in reporting stats the speed and acceleration stats separately, reported anywhere in-game. Introduced in this boosts from your mini-turbos last, and the only by looking at the game's data. Again, why are players with options? I can get down with that, especially when you're running time trials and Mirror All-Cup Tour. Thankfully, the stats at numbers. The lightweights have the highest the lower the mini-turbo stat. Same goes for have some rhyme or reason. Well, I say that, karts in each weight class is absurdly high or Oh, and the top speed stat being lower per to the Barrel Train. The manual notes that but the Barrel Train is the second-fastest the other stat advantages that the have it. The Barrel Train is the best kart in Some people also just haven't been able the controls. Though I personally love them, everyone's cup of tea. Because of how the karts especially when you get sent flying off the game's turning does generally feel more when you master the drift can you truly negate by this game's controls. It also probably doesn't and I cannot view this game from the lens but I at the very least acknowledge how Now, let's talk about items. Items in Double unique special item mechanic that I touched upon you frequently, you'll see crap flying everywhere there on pretty much every track, especially the compensates for this by merely flipping your cart things get murky when you begin to play like Listen up, cuz I'm only gonna say this once. of deliberately underperforming in a race. In powerful items that can aid in making a comeback, or the Great Equalizer. You slow down, grab you get moving. This is a strategy that works in are usually selective about when they use this the circumstances of the race, if they have sufficiently defend themselves while frontrunning. right time to do it, it can more often than not this strategy, but there's nothing stopping them when people bag by grabbing a star yourself and well enough to get ahead of the pack, predicting into first place. It just goes to show that Mario Now that you know what sandbagging where the items turn races into the Normandy we're all trying to get off those boats. especially in smaller matches, but in and especially larger LAN matches where it's not exactly what I'd call "balanced." And is where you need to learn to hang onto your of the stuff flying in every direction. On this something to mindlessly throw ahead of you. If the goal of each Mario Kart race is to come in possible in trying to achieve that goal. When I'm I need to know the very things that the game is know this information when doing time trials, and you're likely bottlenecking your best times driving mechanics are so brilliant, I want to play are basically unaffected by this game's balancing ...But in a sense, I think this game embraces with being anything more than pure fun for almost certainly bridge the gap in skill chaos in its soundtrack quite often. and that's where a lot of its charm comes from. and the game does an incredible job with my friends. I still love Double Dash That said, Mario Kart's competitive scene grew would only further attempt to address its own The next game was Mario Kart DS, and it it was a fully-fledged Mario Kart game in every in multiple ways. It streamlined the local DS Download Play, it was the first to feature several unlockable karts, and its single-player I don't think a Mario Kart game's single-player four cups, an additional four cups exclusively where you have to achieve certain criteria, with mission in a world. The boss fights all play except you're in a kart, and while that may sound I've already talked about this game in my much detail about the surface-level content. excellent game in terms of content and there are a lot of great levels in this game. But First - items. The special item mechanic from implemented into the game as normal items. The get when you're lagging behind, as is the Bob-Omb, which rotate around you as they do in the and though I enjoyed the skill-driven nature was on your trail, I think trailing has utility can also drive into other players that might be too closely behind someone that's trailing an a great mechanic that has since been a mainstay in stuck around since - the Blooper and the Bullet players and it is useless in every game after this inked on a Nintendo DS screen. The Bullet Bill, on ever be introduced in the Mario Kart series. Double Dash, when you use it, the Bill will steer It's a great item for closing the gap between you because you are completely invincible when using it for as long as you want, at least until As for the core gameplay, Mario Kart DS allows you with each character and kart having Mario Kart DS finally makes the decision to screen...with the exception of the mini-turbo you look at the game's data, but in this case - too much for any average player to even begin enough for you to make an informed decision when and I appreciate that. Though character-specific I disagree with the concept entirely because I not have to worry about hidden stats), you can immediately by looking at the stat differences on vehemently disagree with is the item stat. your chances of getting better items, like triple item stat means you won't get the typical three you how stupid it is to have an item stat in Ironically, I think listing all of the stats series. While it is nice that those taking the of what to expect, it alienates casual players prefer this over the old method of handling stats, everybody, and figuring out a balance between Other than that, Mario Kart DS plays like a controls, especially when it comes to drifting. and it allows you to immediately initiate This is the bread and butter of Mario Kart DS building a mini-turbo as fast as possible. skill check. If you were not snaking back you would lose regardless of what items you enough skill divide where I would only want felt like I could get good enough at Mario thumb from rocking it back and forth on the D-Pad. sufficiently on was Rainbow Road, because you In a competitive game, I believe the casual and ways - the first is that both experiences should they are indistinguishable in any real regard DS, the divide between casual and competitive is to be fair, but I feel Mario Kart DS' more the transition from casual to competitive should rather than forcing players to play a certain these two experiences should be unified is by playstyle. Snaking boxes them into playing is not really ideal, especially in a game with if you're playing with people of a similar had a blast with Mario Kart DS in pretty much but this mentality of boxing players This is Mario Kart Wii. A game I have so that feels amazing to play - is also series. It is just as beautiful as it is I'm sure you'll understand why some people view First of all: It's a great game. Don't battle mode may only allow you to play against improvement on Shine Runners from Mario Kart can stack at once. Like previous entries, Mario love Maple Treeway, DK Summit, Toad's Factory, love them not just for their phenomenal and varied but also because of what Kart Wii's new features been bumped up from eight to twelve, which adds doesn't feel like too many racers at this number; starting with this game, you can trick off of or pressing a direction on the D-Pad on a mini-turbo when you land, and you can also angle sooner. This is not only a great feature for the that had physical bumps in a really satisfying addition, this game has completely revamped creating too large of a skill gap in previous mini-turbo will build regardless of whether or not can charge it faster by taking a tighter turn, or only gives you more control when trying to take the game far more accessible, and it has since Mario Kart Wii also introduces motorcycles to where my feelings on this game get complicated. speed whenever you want, effectively making them on straightaways. Certain bikes have something that when you drift, your bike will naturally turn which can save huge chunks of time. Every which is the standard form of drifting that this game's case - it is much slower. Basically, because although you can win with a kart, you you don't use a bike, especially one with inside aimed to implement to close that massive gap in style of play. Whenever I play this game with using inside drift or using wheelies or anything their own playstyle unless they train in the doesn't help that the game's balance favours much all else. In Mario Kart Wii, you can build a acceleration of high-speed vehicles, making the Mario Kart Wii had the sense to display a and I can't thank them enough for finally doing to play Mario Kart Wii ignores a lot of these looking at completely different games. The issue Because of all this... the best combo in the game it has inside drift, and Funky Kong Each weight class has its own version of for example, but this is why you'll always Funky Kongs. I use Rosalina and the Flame because I'm a contrarian, and also just some room for experimentation in this game, your favourite character and a specific bike, and I think there's something to be said based on how cool it looks. A lot of my Kart was born from a desire to create a and as the game attempted to achieve and variety of combos - it felt as though the especially if you decided to race online. The almost completely to tech that vastly widens the and while this was true for Double Dash and widening gap was stretched to such extremes that way. Of course, if you're oblivious to all of this a combo that you liked - they're all pretty solid I've said is an overt criticism of Mario Kart Wii take the games seriously - beating every cup in and optimizing your gameplay - that the true despite everything I've said so far - when you getting bumped out of a wheelie, taking corners as both Mushroom and non-mushroom shortcuts, and Kart Wii becomes the most competitively I don't claim to be a master at this game by any with any sort of finesse, but playing this game feelings I've ever experienced in any racing and it's highly skill-driven. Luck is a factor much all of the original items that Mario Kart a worse star, and although it can squish other stars and bullet bills. The POW Block is avoid the worst effects of it by performing a this is a pretty cool item. When you obtain it, racer to get rid of it before it shrinks you. to you. It's like Hot Potato. The added speed I hate this thing so much. Great, I love being item! When I look at the render for this item, been able to get rid of it plenty of times, but know how to avoid getting bumped into someone that it never came back. One positive I will give to the shock. When someone uses it, it cannot be you to prepare for when it happens again. This because it guarantees a pattern for the shock so long as you bag and hold onto a Like I said, luck is still a factor, but I'd argue more enjoyable than Mario Kart DS, because it back and forth. It amounts to track knowledge, as I feel a good Mario Kart game should. Well, and win with the Jetsetter against eleven In summary, Mario Kart Wii is an amazing accident. It is to kart racing games what mistakes and oversights that allowed both what the developers could have imagined. why don't we take a look at what is quite simply Every Rainbow Road in the series feels like it was mind - a culmination of everything you've learned Super Mario Kart's Rainbow Road was designed Super Circuit built on Super Mario Kart's Rainbow shortcuts, in addition to that solid focus on game's drifting and admittedly more slippery with that control scheme. Mario Kart DS' Rainbow up mini-turbos with a lack of guard rails on plays into the game's own mechanics, for sure, shortcuts, and when to perform tricks - curvy roads were practically made for inside a sensation that can't be beat. It's not the one that feels like it was built for Mario Kart where a single type of bike is better than any play this track at a high level, it makes me As I race above the planet we call home - the queue for an online match with quiet anticipation first place. Mario Kart Wii had a large focus specific parameters, its robust online multiplayer from the internet and compete against them for a its ability to bring people together, regardless leap to an online infrastructure brought that of players directly through the game. Despite people that just want to play the game casually - in the end with people that appreciate what I'm glad Mario Kart Wii's metagame and mechanics has formed its own identity for the incredible and I'm totally fine with that. It still maintains gameplay; a testament to how fun it is, and after reached a pretty reasonable conclusion about Remember when I said that Mario Kart DS is best close in skill to you? Well, that definitely rings game in the series, really. What matters most is with and having a great time. You don't have drift if you don't want to, you just have to to enjoy the game with. And that's okay! Find yourselves. If you're looking for something more you can find a group of people at that skill experience was so compelling once you knew what I am conflicted on this series' history, all of the things that people have accomplished. that gap in skill, and in most of these games to create Mario Kart 7 and eventually 8, I mechanics and items that made the casual and allowing anyone to achieve a degree of But first... let's take a quick break. Mario Kart has deviated a bit in its thirty-year of the main Super Mario series, but for some making them spinoffs of a spinoff. Are you still The first of these was Mario Kart Arcade GP, which a board built from the GameCube the first two games in the series actually run was named "Triforce" because of the three Sega, and Namco, and in particular - Namco the game and its sequel are fun, if simplified the control interface is a steering wheel do something of their own, though mini-turbos with a tap of the brake pedal. While I do get design is deliberately very straightforward in these games generally feel pretty haphazard Currently, the most common version of the game you can find in virtually any arcade or I think this is the worst of the three might be the most refined in this one, but the items and kart you use throughout so any element of strategy is immediately items you've been given. No thanks, While I was in Japan, I did try to capture but I unfortunately didn't get a chance to play cool ride, it is pretty much only playable or if you're lucky enough to be around That said, I did get to experience Mario Koopa's Challenge" if you're in Japan. This is an and it was pretty much the reason to visit Super this out of the way now, the sense of scale at it feels like you've stepped into the game world feels like to stand in this park. The entire park you can compete for high scores and look for all for hidden Mickeys at Walt Disney World, to for those things on your own. This element is you know, an interactive form of media, but (currently) limited amount of space, though with Super Nintendo World has a lot of life left in it a theme park setting. Actually, Eiji Aonuma was park, and people are beginning to wonder if Zelda he was there. This is all obviously speculation, Anyway, the queue for Bowser's Challenge which is important for a theme park ride, as most of your time. Bowser's Castle packs making the line feel like a genuine part of Buzz Lightyear's Astro Blasters, in which you to compete for a high score by hitting as many aspect looked way better in person, I couldn't know... fast? I don't really feel like the ride I feel like a coaster of some kind would have been kart racing experience with augmented reality and when hit with an item, maybe the kart would practical that would be, and maybe I'm envisioning technology. Maybe something more robust wasn't or perhaps they just had a limited amount of space ride as a whole. It doesn't give Astro Blasters a exclusively for this ride, but as a part of your only for the immersion provided by the beautifully don't go to Universal Studios Japan in the summer they do not mess around when it comes to humidity. Alas, we are still not done! Another gives you the ability to construct your own, flat around in them with a remote-controlled car. The augmented reality on the Nintendo Switch, and it translates surprisingly well. I imagine I game as a kid. That said, there was only so and my ideas for more perilous courses ended with kind of work, but you have to rely solely correctly when you use them, and it can't really I don't have much else to say about this game. that's for damn sure, but hilariously enough ever did of adapting Mario Kart's The final spinoff I'll be talking about is against entering the mobile gaming market for many one of his final major movements as president Nintendo's dwindling performance numbers each as well as the hit they took when smartphones held with the Wii. While the mobile games that I think Mario Kart Tour is possibly the worst be free-to-play, but I can think of plenty worth your time than this one. Imagine taking stripping them down to their absolute basics, and yet in the end - it doesn't matter because the if you input the bare minimum requirement for that you are playing with other people, when users. There is an actual multiplayer mode, but with all of the connotations that that might for very long, but seeing as it's free - I the game. But I figured Nintendo would at the medium of mobile games with a flagship series like printing piece of software that just... exists. main series games into perspective. With Tour... I Well... this break took kind of a things are looking up for the main By this entry, I think Nintendo realized that gaps in playstyles between casual and advanced massively. Perhaps a little too much, as it its own, but it did at the very least pave While I didn't find the gliding sections to it did at the very least make certain sections jumps. The customization, unfortunately, took away probably because Nintendo wanted to re-evaluate Runner situation, and it really does suits your playstyle. This mechanic would but because of the restrictions placed on Mario Kart 7 is a pretty safe and standard Mario of players back to eight from twelve, which but a lot of these changes made me especially at the time. It also scaled back its with the only real noteworthy additions other than from Super Mario Galaxy. Gotta say, I didn't That being said, I have to give credit to this There are a ton of genuinely excellent tracks wrench in your typical racing habits. In way to honor Donkey Kong Country Returns, its melody-fuelled gameplay, and Neo Bowser but the added threat of rain reducing traction as a test of your driving skills. And I adore cohesive island connecting each of its sports them to create tracks based around them in a this is the first Mario Kart game to introduce meaning that tracks with this structure can be as you speed through them, and the Wuhu Island drive underwater in this game, which is used in Some other tracks I love include Rock Rock portions that you can speed through if you as well as Rosalina's Ice World for being slippery controls and wide-open terrain, instead it's a level named after Rosalina, so to top it all off - Mario Kart 7 has my second right behind Mario Kart Wii. It takes the single implementing so many different fun ideas the planets, along the rings of Saturn... It's a that thrives in spite of Mario Kart 7's simplicity I have to give credit to Mario Kart 7 for whilst maintaining both its evolution in terms may not be known for its wild tech, but that and that's always what Mario Kart should have been back on track, and set up what I believe to be To me, Mario Kart 8 - and especially its Switch questions I asked at the beginning all the while addressing problems with best ways the game signifies this is with its fusion soundtrack of Mario Kart 8, but also a Ever since the original game, Mario Kart has in every single game's main theme. Mario and it chose to draw out Super Mario Kart's standard for each game's theme. Double but it eventually circles back to that lead that melody as well. But with Mario Kart 8, they Kart delivered that melody as a representation of Rather than boxing players into specific I believe any advanced play in Mario Kart 8 item strategy, and knowing when to take creating a build and play style that you're and the game introduces ATVs as well, and Nintendo to balance the game accordingly. there was a segment that deliberately brought up matters. They made it a point to demonstrate it depends primarily on the course. They even situation where one vehicle was clearly better all depends on the course you pick. What matters mini-turbos, and whatever vehicle allows you to do no longer a requirement, it is an option with its Let's talk about Mario Kart 8's central mechanic track design. For one thing, you can now bump into sections, as well as these spinning posts, but physics defying feats, with the signature track a track represented beautifully right and cutting corners in these sections can and it introduces plenty of variety into how you can trick off of, they have anti-gravity as did the underwater and gliding sections the retro courses, making Mario Kart 8 at rather than four new cups and four old ones. which were designed essentially from scratch for mechanic. Mario Circuit is transformed because of the track. Toad's Turnpike maintains the a section where you can get out of the way and That's another element that restores balance technically the first game to bring these but now you can get them in 1st or 2nd place from but you can no longer go over that cap. In a driving, they will need to take wider and slower which automatically slows them down while they along the main path, of course, but racers will intrinsic elements of both strategy and balance, Kart 8 accounts for coins through incredibly Mario Kart Stadium kicks things off, choices. Take a wide turn to collect coins, use a the middle and try to drift as tight as possible. anti-gravity section having a similar dynamic that and if you're getting blasted with items. This is a compelling game, and this is only the first paths to take depending on the level of risk you the multiple path philosophy from Mario Kart is the same way, as is Twisted Mansion, Water with this split-second decision making in mind, possibilities for brilliant course design. Dolphin racing while giving each section of the level is amazing. Each section utilizes different and as you emerge from the water, you're As an aside, Mario Kart 8 has one of the greatest to the point where its jazz fusion direction feels It was all recorded live, meaning that each race sound. Mario Kart 64's Rainbow Road has never felt than before with not a whole lot going on, but Mario Kart 8 also has continuous lap courses, sadly. That said, Mount Wario is awesome. all the things that entails - icy roads in a cave with a running waterfall and multiple if you're looking to get through as fast as mess with even the very best of players due to to drift as tightly as possible to optimize I basically drift in a straight line through the Star Cup is perfect. Sunshine Airport kicked Dolphin Shoals letting the environment impact how and bumping into players, and finally Mount Wario the Star Cup in Mario Kart 8 might be the best Bowser's Castle in the Special Cup is fantastic a grueling test of skill, and I enjoy the space use of anti-gravity for shortcuts and drifting, and adrenaline. Rainbow Road was a great way to though, and it implements all of Mario But how do vehicle parts factor into this? let's take a look. All of my points of discussion balance update for Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. The Wii things further, but we'll keep things simple with There are four kinds of vehicles in Mario Kart Bikes are the only vehicles with inside drift, to play through sharply cutting corners in your the developers made to inside drifting don't vehicles use outside drift, which wipes away the to casual players. Frustratingly, Mario Kart and there are a couple of other hidden stats as most important and I wish it wasn't hidden. You and digestible manner by inputting your parts This time around, mini-turbo governs how and they usually build fastest if you're but add a huge mini-turbo and acceleration bonus boost to your mini-turbo stat by playing as one of massively boosts your acceleration, and as such - but the lower their acceleration will be. viewed as Yoshi, Teddy Buggy, Roller, and acceleration and handling. The Cat Cruiser has ATVs drift better. It's not the fastest in terms up for that in all other regards. I mean, with you can essentially negate the speed stat from constant mini-turbos, kind of like Mario Kart DS Yoshi hivemind something you should do because is very good, but as well-rounded as this combo is have an alternative build that suits how you like always create a build that prioritizes what you The Duke, Azure Rollers and Cloud Glider - doesn't and its top speed is a decent chunk faster. process. I've also used Kamek in the Biddybuggy almost as fast as the babies, but he doesn't meaning that you can snake back and forth and Mario build isn't that bad. While its mini-turbo it balances both high top speed and handling, The point I'm trying to get at here is in previous games are now entirely optional endless combinations that you can specifically the game is focused on those core elements and using items strategically. This is what and I believe Mario Kart 8's focus allows but enables them to play the game at a high inexperienced and seasoned gameplay simply boils Speaking of which, let's talk about items. First It now causes everyone hit by it to lose traction, period of time. New to this game, the Piranha giving you a boost every time it chomps. The hit something in your path, but you have more and it's much faster. The Crazy Eight, which have to be lagging behind significantly to obtain I get hit by a shock and lose everything, but the most important item of all. Though you a few of the games by timing a mushroom boost taking advantage of the invincibility frames - destroy the Blue Shell before it hits you with with the Great Equalizer, and though it is hard whenever I'm frontrunning and come across it, any other items and players coming your way, Something that Mario Kart 7 introduced the distance-based item distribution. Depending on place, more powerful items can appear in higher closing the gap in skill. It discourages players either hang onto the right items by cycling between each player. This, inherently, gives other that good at the game. It restores that original the wayside, all the while not sacrificing the fun with this change, but many of the changes made coming back to it more than previous games. With all of this in mind, I was ready to in the series. But the original Wii U version the entire series. What the hell is this? You and you can only play Balloon Battle. Then, players to hit. There's a reason the battle arenas around Toad's Turnpike to find people is not fun. arena thanks to its multitude of paths, but battle mode offering. This would eventually Shortly after the game's release, Nintendo only $14.99. It came out in two waves, and to the game. The first wave surprised everyone by and making Link a playable character. I was Super Smash Kart? It was a common talking point this level to come out. The level has all sorts Boko Baba plants, the coins being Rupees, and worth it just to see Link ride a motorcycle. like Excitebike Arena, which was essentially a considering they added Baby Park to the game in love as a fan of tracks that encourage continuous hang of, but once you master it you have plenty instead of making a new F-Zero game, Nintendo in Mario Kart - the game that some have cited as track is awesome. It adapts the gameplay of F-Zero energy replenishers now giving you coins, and a what with all of the boost pads and anti-gravity and naturally - the music is kickass. It flows it reflects the aggressive driving of F-Zero with that guitar, all the while welcoming the melody they added Big Blue in Wave Two, I was happy that was incredibly well designed - carrying the also because the music let the composers have to drive how groovy this piece is at its core, Yeah, I wasn't kidding about man. This is some of the best Wave Two introduced Wild Woods, Super Bell if you can believe it, as well as the Villager stretching the "Mario Kart" name at this point. in the DLC, like SNES Rainbow Road, which I Road level thanks to how the ripples and jumps all the while the core gameplay that made it In 2017, Nintendo released Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, U version, new characters and vehicles, and items system even more depth by bringing back two altered to make the game less chaotic than Double meaning that you have to choose whether or not to a Boo cannot steal from your secondary item slot, it is the best in the series. Every single to choose from, and you have a new mode that this mode is heavily unbalanced. But with a this mode can be an absolute BLAST. All of these consider Mario Kart 8 Deluxe my favourite, and one it felt like they could never top this Mario Kart 8 reminded me why I fell and it bridges the gap in skill seamlessly everything the series was built on, and it's fun definitive Mario Kart game to me. But really... One of the brilliant things about this series is I once thought that each subsequent Mario but after going through each game once again own merits - its own identity - through its to appeal to different people. Like I said I do believe in creating something that everyone designing a game for a specific crowd. Think for example. They offered two completely different and while Mario Kart Wii's imbalance may have base has adapted to what this specific style of and Super Mario Kart, and every entry in the they are wildly different from one another, 9 comes out, I can only hope that it strives to In examining this series, I've learned a lot about about Mario Kart, but it was also some of the channel. It ignited some friendly competitions, a tournament for fans of the channel, and heated discussion over the benefits of people together, from all walks of life, and power of Mario Kart. Its ability to bridge that different wants and needs - make it one of the So, to briefly answer my questions: That is why one of the finest and most creative racing games people because of its simplicity, its hidden have a good time. This is why I so desperately eventually found, but this is also how I came Long story short - no, Mario Kart is and I'm glad I grew up playing it.