A Man Dryscooped 35000 Milligrams Of ET is a 37 year old man, presenting to and complaining of a massive headache. that they saw him have a seizure in they noticed that his heart ET was devoted to his gym lifestyle. In his age was the prime time in his entire life but also a solid foundation of discipline. and consistently put in his hours to become even though he knew he wouldn't be able to keep up to be as ET never really bought into the hype in 1)eating well, and 2) training well were take supplements, he'd save money by buying One day while transferring ingredients from ET mislabeled the caffeine powder for branch chain blend, he thought something was different. Usually didn't clump up in to chunks, like how powdered little different, he thought maybe the factory maybe it was a different batch. He wasn't really Everything was white powder and it was just hard ET had no idea of the sheer amount of caffeine single scoop alone, contained a lethal dose of The next day, ET prepared something to drink and keep him but he was completely oblivious to the fact that In the middle of one of his sets, as he popped the powder in to his drink. As he started swallowing, kinda bitter with a peculiar after taste. Maybe Immediately after swallowing 35000 milligrams of sure what was wrong with the taste. He thought the so maybe he just tweaked something, ET started feeling like he was getting hit by burning, but his heart was starting to beat as it felt like an animal was chewing its way sense of doom as he started hyperventilating. vision starts to blur. He stumbled around and cheeks as liquid gushed out under his At home now, ET laid down on the floor. He called for 911 because he was in such ET he finally has his first seizure as he's Clearly, all of ET's problems are because of consumed in his home-mixed workout supplement, but knew all of this started after he drank that mix. they noticed that his body temperature was high, Hyper meaning high. Glyc from Ancient Greek And -emia meaning presence in blood. High is high, if his heart rhythm is erratic, then you could reasonably guess that maybe hyperglycemia was from the stimulant triggering to "fight or flight," cueing the body to body in an effort to supply cells and muscle with ET appears to be experiencing sympathomimetic syndrome, referring to a group of symptoms poison. Sympatho referring to the sympathetic or flight response as opposed to rest and ET has symptoms happening together, be elicited by a natural function caused by a massive ingestion of a toxin, but known to us as 35000 milligrams of caffeine, As the medical team reads the results of ET's Hypo- meaning low. Kali referring to potassium, or period table of elements. Low potassium presence like sodium above it on the periodic table, is to stop doing things. Sodium is primarily outside Moving in and out and being present or absent One place that relies heavily on these signals contraction by sending neurotransmitters. Sodium Calcium enters, telling the muscle to commit to a much potassium means the muscles relax for a long contracting, bringing us back to hypokalemia. and too little potassium means that then it could make sense why ET is so jittery and if it can't relax properly, then this could And as the medical team gets ready to admit ET and so erratic, that his heart suddenly stops We know that ET accidentally consumed a lethal result of that "fight or flight" response and muscles and his cardiac arrest, but why did these cocoa beans and tea leaves. The interesting is that it's similar in shape to something else called adenosine. Our DNA is made of it. You might by our mitochondria and used by our cells for certain chemicals fit inside spaces on the cell the cell. Binding into these spaces tells a chemical needs the physical shape to that should fit in a square hole. And this is happen. In a brief moment, ET tells doctors swallowed some supplements post-workout. It he knew exactly which ingredients to list, they need to know, because caffeine was In the brain, adenosine helps balance calm the brain preventing overexcitation. it fits into those places in the brain instead in one coffee, it's not a huge deal. But it can cause such an extreme imbalance that explaining his seizure. You can start In the heart, adenosine helps regulate pace maker from performing its functioning, then those The heart starts to lose its normal pace, and stop here. In the blood vessels, adenosine helps are. If a huge dose of caffeine is blocking it, increasing blood pressure and decreasing blood blood vessels there can be constricted, limiting would cause the cells to need more oxygen for get there because of the vasoconstriction. This brings us back to the idea of "fight or sets off a chemical cascade in the cells. with the release of adrenaline in to the blood. adrenaline is released to activate that "fight or sugar in the liver are released into the blood, immediately starts beating faster to supply blood to the name, sympathomimetic toxidrome. If the nervous system, but adrenaline is a hormone above the kidneys which are not part of the another chemical released from the nervous system is that chemical, and it quickly spreads all sending extreme signals. It gets to his muscles, energy because of hyperglycemia. The incessant muscles to twitch. Because the muscles are so ET's body temperature was so high. Because wastes. The body needs to balance this waste out, it into the cells explaining his hypokalemia. But and there isn't enough of it in the blood to make adrenaline and noradrenaline and sending signals without that proper relax signal, the muscle of until suddenly, it isn't beating anymore. The ET's muscles, during a time when their energy to starve of oxygen and die. As the medical his heart keeps stopping, the dead muscle tissue in the blood. When the heart starts circulating can collect in his kidneys, and they can start This is what happened to ET's brain, his heart, 35,000 milligrams of caffeine. Is there This brings us back to the chemical structure light. This could make it easy to handle. Second, and -philic meaning affinity for. This means as opposed to oil, which doesnt mix well with fat tissue in the body. All of this meaning that than hide inside the organs where it would be of this, it could be possible to "clean" ET's machine where his blood flow is diverted to a blood is then sent back to his body for normal it may not yet be too late, it might still and prevent the caffeine from absorbing into him in the hopes that the remaining caffeine in charcoal, not absorb into the blood to do its Hours after the dialysis was started, ET no started to normalize. Hyperglycemia isn't life to resolve soon after. Because his hypokalemia his body didn't actually lose potassium, so an equilibrium was reestablished. Days as he returned home, and returned to his original but food and consistent training are Thanks for watching. Take