Hello everyone, I am Xiao Gaojie. Today's Japanese cheesecake is a sequel to this previous cake video This pervious cake recipe is relatively easy to make. Today's recipe, compare to the previous one doubles the amounts of the cheese, milk Eggs and flour support the cake structure Greatly reducing eggs and flour will increase its difficulty But it is OK I will share some tips and show you how to make a perfect cake Let's take a look at the baking trays Smaller baking trays are easier compare to large ones because the middle is getting heated up quickly For the same reason, a thinner cake is easier to bake You see that this baking tray is not very deep at all whether it is a non-stick or not, it doesn't matter. Parchment will be used loosely put the paper along the side Otherwise, the baking paper absorbs water and wrinkles For example, this cake, the side wrinkled In addition, cut the paper higher than the baking tray, because the cake will grow. Let's separate the eggs No need to warm up eggs to the room temperature. They are taken out directly from the refrigerator. After the separation, the egg whites are returned to the refrigerator bring a pot of water to boil When you start to see bubbles, turn the heat to low. milk Cream cheese and butter. Taken out directly from the refrigerator. Melt slowly When it is smooth, turned off the heat. Now, we only need just a little bit of heat in the pot Put egg yolks stir for about a minute Then sieve into the flour Stir well do it fast, or the egg yolks will be cooked. This recipe calls for large amounts of fat and cheese, so the egg yolk batter is thin and running with a little heat, the egg yolk and flour are slightly cooked. which makes the egg yolk batter slightly thicker You have to be careful, don't overheat this is the thickness of the egg yolk batter Continue to heat up the water to boil, we will use it later Take out the egg white from the refrigerator Put a little bit of white vinegar My hand mixer has 5 speeds. I start with 4. After it is bubbled up, add sugar in a few portions. After all the sugar is in, I lowered the speed to 3. This can produce very fine meringue soft peaks It took a total of 6 minutes During the beating, the egg white will return to room temperature. Another cake, beaten with full speed coarse meringue causes the final batter to be very rough The baked cake has a rough surface and is not evenly colored. add meringue into egg yolk batter in three portions Mixing gently The yolk batter and the meringue have a consistent thickness, so it is easy to mix After stirring, slowly pour into the baking tray Look at this batter, shining and smooth The cake is not baked yet, but when you see such a batter you know the cake will be good No need to drop the baking pan to remove air pockets. Just smooth it. The bubbles will come out on their own during the low temperature baking The pot of water that was just boiled Put in the preheated oven on the bottom rack 120 degrees Celsius, or 250 degrees Fahrenheit bake for 60 minutes After 60 minutes, the cake is about twice as high. At this time, the cake is cooked. We turn on the broiler to color it The baked cake looks like this Smooth surface, no cracking And the color is even, very beautiful Slightly cool, take it out when the baking tray is not hot. When it's hot, cheese and butter are liquid, so the cake is very soft. It can jiggle After cooling, put it in the refrigerator and chill it for 2, 3 hours. After the cheese and butter are solidified, you can taste the cake better. I put this cake in the refrigerator overnight. take a look at the internal structure You can hear this nice &quot; Sha sha..&quot;, sound, when I broke open the cake As for the taste, I believe you can tell how delicious it is, just by looking at the pictures Thank you, I am Xiao Gaojie. I will see you next time ^^