Architecture schools are broken. Instead of teaching how to create that most people love, they focus But there is a true A small number of universities building and now their students are I traveled all the way to the US developments and to share them with you. And at the end, we'll look at ways of how tips and advice for the students out there This might be one of the most So, let's get to it. Part 1. Architecture School I always wanted lively squares and streets lined During classes, I used to draw doodles Thinking about what kind of After high school, it was an Urban planning in Amsterdam, However, I gradually discovered isn't being taught anymore. But why? Today, architecture education teaches modern construction materials, to to create innovative architectural There is a strong focus on also on the creativity of the student. As part engineer, part artist, visions into functional buildings. New buildings are supposed to fit in the and have that minimalist, modernist look. Ornament, classical proportions, not seen as functional or necessary, Most students who enter university with this way of teaching, and they valid way of doing architecture. Some students, however, arrive at school architecture and are hoping to learn some They're in for a surprise, because Most students have no idea about So, what did students learn before Part 2. How we got here. This rather heavy package contains Theory of Architecture by Julien Parisian Ecole des Beaux Arts. These books are filled with some knowledge on how to design buildings. A lot of which could still be used today. Everything from how plumbing is laid out, to design schools or even the parliament. The books illustrate how teaching Up until the 1930s, architecture and skills based than it is today. Students are drilled to have a solid construction and materials work. They're supposed to become They're skilled in sketching, layout, and proportion. After the 1930s, however, The world after World War I brings The Bauhaus, for example, with Walter Mies van der Rohe, and Frank Lloyd Wright They reject things like even sloped roof construction. Just before World War II breaks out, some When they emigrate to the USA, are promptly installed in prominent universities and institutes. Here, they have free reign to introduce with many elements of the Bauhaus. All the unnecessary ideas Gradually, other universities follow suit. The last remaining traditional teachers replaced, bullied away, or simply fired. Around the year 1970, the practically all architecture But there is one remaining problem. Not all history can be ignored. And the knowledge to renovate buildings So, what they do is this. They put architectural history and invent a new subject. Historic preservation. This way, methods and techniques from are only applied to existing buildings. While for new construction, only the So, you might think, All the innovation and focus fits a 21st century, right? Well, the modernist way of designing the best one for all problems. Because there is another way And another way of looking at what we Once you see things from that point architecture education isn't suited for Before we dive into that, let I'm working on a new website that will and much more, all under one roof. For this purpose, I use Squarespace, Squarespace makes it super easy to website using their new guided design For example, I could choose between or build a site from scratch. Squarespace also allows you to make and and powerful, flexible payment tools. And it's all super easy to use. Check out squarespace. com for a free trial. And when you're ready to launch, go to save 10 percent on your first And now let's get back to it. Part three. Problems. The complete change of architecture many problems, and it is about time First of all, a disclaimer. These are my opinions, and I expect Also, not all architecture programs contain generalizations that Most of the people working at architecture people who want the best for this world. What I'm going to describe comes conversations with people who studied So with that out of the Point one, misguided priorities. First of all, modernist education innovation, and novelty. This leads to students spending things, while that time could have After all, they're going to face they have limited time in university. So why not first get a good For me, the material use and the knowledge really there anymore in modern buildings. And of course, there's skyscrapers too. It's hard to do something else in Of course, in some moments you have to use problems, but we don't, I feel like we Also, when we learn about architecture, At the end, we just, stuff in the the facade or something, but it's not, most important things and we don't really we justify the value of each material. The lack of time for basic architectural leads to stress and insecurity among left to figure things out on their own. Sometimes they're not even sure The many architectural design skills that drawing, watercolor rendering, proportion, material properties in craftsmanship, Revit, parametric design and inventing Point two, modernist monoculture. Hearing these stories and reports from over the world, it seems that students architecture, that is the modernist view. In other words, you could This sounds much more dramatic life, so please hear me out. Changing people's views doesn't always or bad intentions towards students. Remember that most professors and teachers have never been seriously exposed to For many people, different is scary, will try to keep things as they are. For most universities, teaching students First of all, simply by choosing what worldview of the students can be shaped. The second way of influencing happens in students who design things that don't The third way of changing behavior student's work, because no student look up at those who perform well. Guess what the other The student who creates Or the abstract concept that gets an A? So, this brainwashing process or even the teachers noticing. But all hell breaks loose if someone suddenly does something Unfortunately, it also leads to a not ideas are not allowed to thrive. For those who want to design social isolation, a feeling of Even worse, these students can lose to create things they don't believe in. Point three, pretentious pseudoscience. I believe that modern architecture scientific, but isn't really succeeding. Vague theories that are impossible to are used to defend designs no one would Students paired each other's vague up descriptions of their projects If there was any interest in hard certainly stop designing flat roofs interest in the eye tracking research Architects might stop designing or Unsafe and bored, but that Point four, the ivory tower. The disinterest in the preferences of is one of the greatest problems We have pressing issues to inequality and a housing crisis. But at the same time that we need millions neighborhoods, instead of looking at our schools keep teaching students concepts that aren't always helpful. This leads to places where Which is a waste of time, energy, This becomes extra clear when kind of places people like most. These show that 75 percent of the architecture and urban environments. But these statistics are never Isn't it important that students that people actually like? And isn't it at the very least I think feedback is a very important thing just the house owner who builds it, that everyone because if you build a house 99. 9 percent of the people They just see the outside facade. And in a city, I think that's people have their voice in it. Point five, the messiah complex. In countless lectures, the importance drilled into students minds. Of course, we must solve these problems. However, not every problem can More importantly, the modernist isn't always the right one. Take sustainability for example. We can indeed reduce emissions But too often, the focus is too much building, while very basic questions to the building after 50 years? Will people fight to keep this A building can be completely carbon after 30 years, because people hate it. How sustainable was it then really? Some universities are on the right materials like ramped earth, adobe, I'd like to see natural stone as it lasts almost forever. But do not pat yourself on the back hate, as your communal roof garden that the fact you just created a new ghetto, The fact that you say you're energy on it, doesn't mean you're So we built today, in my opinion, so it looks nice when you open it. But ten, twenty years later, the And we see that almost everywhere. And people don't care how it looks look nice for the first ten years. Finally, there is hypocrisy Faculties often say that they But is that really so? For example, is it really inclusive that does not accept people who want to Do you really care about diversity if you by aristocratic Western Europeans over And do you really care about teach how to create buildings Part 4 Happily, there is good news too. What if I told you there is a of schools who do it all differently? I travelled to South Bend, Dame School of Architecture. This school is truly special, because architectural design skills that were Students are taught the drafting and of material, the relationship to that one cannot find at regular Employers love to hire these students. Around 99 percent directly Those are numbers other Stefanos Polyzoides is the current Well, the school started 125 years which was the, the, the major mode All education in the United States. And then it followed all the war trend to be teaching in the, And, uh, 30 years ago, 32 years to be Gordon Smith to develop a different architecture, which was one that was The time came that Michael was elevated into the deanship. He followed up with two very One of them was to understand classism in, from the least formal to the most formal. So that included among other vernacular traditions of the world. And he also introduced the subject of fundamental one, uh, which had to do. With the idea that buildings will not they would be designed in context. When I walk through the studio, I see the work of the students. Most of the drawings are so them and put them on my wall. I also feel a bit sad as I remember The education I wanted to have, which But here I am, 14 years later, I mean, look at this. If students can design so worse what we see in our cities. I interviewed one of the students to hear I think the University of Notre different for a lot of reasons. First and foremost is at this school, differentiate the difference between And we understand architecture fabric or a network within a city. We study seriously, uh, regional the regional and local architecture Something you'll note that here at the copy and paste historical precedence. So what does that mean? It means that when we're studying architecture of the past, we analyze it, to understand it, and past have answered various design Once we've come to gather and collect move forward with a strategy of design. to think and interact with the past but But Notre Dame is not the only place At the Catholic University of accredited traditional program. This program has a strong It coexists with a modernist of student design competitions. I also traveled to Kansas to visit Benedictine offers students a similar that is not yet fully accredited. I asked for some of the Uh, when I arrived here realize, uh, what was happening. There was a certain quality in working together to make something Uh, so coming here and, and sort of, you what classical architecture is or sort either, was, uh, certainly shocking. Originally, I studied a whole year So it's been a very interesting everything I, I was taught before. Because at the end of that year, I felt like nothing really made The things that I was designing beyond a functional purpose. And I was, it was just It's really important, I think, to the I think with computers there's this And by removing the human person from to interact with, you're really not, are interacting with those buildings. But there is more good news. Utah Valley University started a which is very affordable compared The Miami School of Architecture and traditional design. So, in the US, the number How about Europe? Well, unfortunately, there is less But there are two options. One is at Kingston University in teaches classical architecture, led The second one was started at Students at that school demanded schooling, As a result, one of their small classical architecture program. There's also a growing number of summer description below, with editions in the Mexico and Spain to name a few. And more summer schools are Finally, there's part time courses Planning Academy and the ICAA. In short, it seems like a true renaissance Part 5. Solutions So, what can universities I think it can be Choose for teaching real fads and reinventing the wheel. Next up, do serious precedent study. Understand buildings deeply instead inspiration from older works. Offer more than one view on architecture Reward humbleness and servitude to society attitude of building and designer. Focus on true, long term boxes for LEED certificates or And last but not least, show an This would mean overhauling But I think a school could start master track, or extra courses I guarantee that many students about traditional architecture, like Let's move on to the Part 6. You, the student. You might be frustrated, angry even, I was, for sure, when I discovered but never got the opportunity to do. So, what can you do? Well, the biggest problem is that That doesn't mean there aren't any So, on my Discord channel, I minded students from your faculty. Drop a message in one of the channels states, saying where you study, Because alone, you might be weak. But together, you are Legion. Together, you can share your experiences, university doesn't teach you, or you can more useful architectural design skills, have more attractive places in our world. We need to change our universities. To help you out, I made a page find all sorts of suggestions to Never forget that you are the future, and There is more to discover in the world be learned in a million lifetimes. So, I wish you the best of luck and happy with your beautiful buildings. So, let's see if we can If you agree with this video or you like with your study friends, your professors, Let's at least get a discussion started. Help us by liking and subscribing, a big to check out the links in the description. They're there for you. In the next video, we take a look that did everything differently. Thank you and till next time!