Jane Ashton: With the assistance of the outside broadcast unit, we will be linking from the Database Studio to their home. Pat Green and Julian, welcome to Database. Pat Green and Julian Green: Hello Jane. Jane Ashton: Hi Julian. I see you have your computer linked to the telephone line. Can you tell us (and) how you did that? Julian Green: Yes. Well, it's very simple really. Um, the telephone is connected to the telephone network with a British telecom plug. And I simply remove the telephone jet from the telecom socket and plug it into this box here the modem. I then take another wire from the Modem and plug it in where the telephone was. I can switch on the Modem and... ...we're ready to go. Um, the computers asking me if I want to log on and... ...it's now telling me to phone up the main Prestel computer, or generally I'll do. Um... Jane Ashton: There's a very simple connection to make? Julian Green: Extremely simple. Um... And I can actually leave the modem, but plugged in once it's done this without affecting the telephone. I'm now waiting for the computer to answer me. It asks with a tone, and then I just flicked a switch on the Modem, and replace the receiver. And... Jane Ashton: Things are starting to happen - ...which I have now done and it comes up with - an op-... an opening screen. Jane Ashton: And Julian can you tell me what is Micronet? ...that's specially designed for microcomputer users. It has a lot of facilities; has a magazine type page of What's New Today,... ...Daily News, reviews of the Current Software that's available. There's a Letter's page that people can write in. Um,...There are programs available on Micronet. You can load directly down the phone line - some of them are free, some of them you do have to pay for. Jane Ashton: Now Pat, whose computer is it? ...we all have a part share, but Julian and I mainly use it. Jane Ashton: And, why did you buy a computer? Pat Green: Well I was very interested in the new technology and didn't want to be left behind... ...I don't think it's only for the youngsters at school now. I think as older ones... ...we'll have to learn a lot about it. Jane Ashton: And what do you use the computer for? ...people's telephone numbers and addresses. Um, I use it as a word processor for my letters which always come out perfect now and umm... The most exciting thing I find is... um... the mailbox as... uh... where I write to other people on the Prestel system. Jane Ashton: And who have you written to recently; (do) you got any examples? Umm... He said (that) he's left the prescription for me in the chemist. Jane Ashton: Right. Well thank you very much Pat and Julian. We'll be seeing you later in the program. Jane Ashton: If you have anything you want to say to us here on Database, and you're connected to the press stealth service, you can use the Database mailbox. Pat Green is still with us in North London, and she's going to demonstrate this facility by sending us a message. Jane Ashton: Hello Pat. Jane Ashton: Can you find page seven seven seven six (7-7-7-6) please? (Showed e-mail creation - standard blank format) Julia Ashton: And now would you like to send us a message? (Pat Green's typing) Jane Ashton: And I should be able to get the same message now on my screen? (Displaying e-mail message to Database) Jane Ashton: Thank you very much for your good wishes Pat and Julian. Jane Ashton: If I want to get that message printed out I can do that as well, just by hitting this button. (Printing sounds) And there it is. By the way, we've heard some rumors that Commodore are planning to launch their own rival to Micronet,... ...which will come complete with a modem. Now as we get some more news of that comp. unit,... ...we'll let you have it. In the meantime, if you want more information about Prestel or Micronet,... ...then why not have a look at the Database Newsletter which you can find on Oracle page 182. That's page - (One - Eight - Two) 1 - 8 - 2. Now if you own a BBC Micro,... ...(please) standby for the software transmission. You can record the data directly from the audio track of your video cassette recording of Database. Alternatively, if your television has an audio jack, or an ear socket, you can take the data directly from that. The least successful method is to just place a microphone in front of the television set. Have you haven't got a BBC Micro? Don't worry, because during the series, we'll be transmitting data for the ZX81, the Spectrum,... ...the Commodore 64,... ...the VIC-20, and the Dragon (32/64). Now remember these software transmissions are experimental, but if they're successful... ...and you like them, then they may well become a regular feature of Database later on in the year. Standby for the software transmission, you better start your recorders now. Goodbye, and see you next week from Earl's Court. (Radio transmission sounds - LOUD) (End Credits) (c)THAMES PRODUCTIONS UK 1984 - 2018