- [Narrator] Speeding Vince Ramos and his driver need to get to the Canadian border because he had just escaped an FBI sting. In the panic, Vince grabs his phone and quickly texts his entire company to shut down all operations. See, he wasn't your average businessman, Vince had built a selling encrypted phones, perfect for CEOs, valuing their privacy. Except in this entire business model, he had made one small mistake, his phone was too easy to get. Biker gangs, drug smugglers and cartels were using and the FBI, well, they We're going to use his connections and influence in the space to put together the largest only if they could catch him. Vince was a natural born salesman, sold everything from satellite to winning employee of the month at one of Canada's But the only thing Vince was his three kids and loving wife, whom he'd do anything for. Wanted to give them the world, but to do that, he'd need Come 2008, amidst the financial crisis, he decided it was time at the big phone company to found his own, Phantom Secure communications with privacy as its core value. But how was Vince gonna do that? Well, he and his four member team would sell Blackberry but these Blackberries They had ripped out the This way, even if someone broke into them, it may be the government, they couldn't be used Then they installed custom email software, connected to their servers And more importantly, these That's pretty good encryption. I'm not joking, this is a one of the first publicly available. It meant that no third party even if they were intercepted. And the price for all this? Two to $3,000 per phone with an additional ranging from 150 to 200 bucks. And anyone you wanted to talk to, they also had to buy a phone. The entire system wasn't even super novel, but man, could Vince sell a glass of water to a drowning man. It all started by word of mouth. He was selling it around the VIP's, athletes, rappers, businessmen that wanted to Things were going swimmingly and Phantom Secure was but soon it would all go south because in Australia, was one of the most notorious and he loved the thing. Coming from a family with Hakan saw an opportunity an opportunity to become rich. He spent years fostering corrupt Australian politicians and smugglers to produce and Guy had made an entire a hard task, but one completed. Hakan wasn't just any drug mover, he had found it the Aussie cartel, a network of nine top responsible for a third of breaking in over a hooking the entire country on drugs, something he wasn't afraid to You'd find pictures of wearing expensive watches, and partying and private meetings. The only trouble was, it wasn't just the babes it was also the Australian police. They dubbed him the Facebook gangster, and with a billion dollars pointing back to him, he had to leave the country. And what better place to The thing is, he didn't He wanted to run the thing remotely. But his business contacts, well, they weren't silly enough to talk about all this illegal Hakan needed a solution, and while desperately searching, It claimed to offer so he immediately went out and ordered it. Thanks to Hakan's authority business for the phone was booming. It helped that Australian media kept pushing the stories of drug smugglers busted with these uncrackable phones. Wasn't quite the user but this rush would bring Phantom Secure $19 million in revenue. And the best part, wasn't even illegal. I mean, Apple isn't responsible for what you do on your iPhone, right? But this didn't sit well who were itching to lock Vince up and destroy his company forever. But since they didn't have they'd have to find something first. There was one more very specific little hidden feature Say, you're putting an need to erase your tracks to avoid jail. Well, Phantom Secure had you covered. Just message them directly, asking them to delete No questions asked, no matter what. This meant even deleting but law enforcement had no proof of that. So around this time that they had just busted Owen Hansen, a former USC football player for smuggling more than a into the States, up into Canada, and even down to Australia. It was a long-winded investigation, made harder because Hansen using Phantom's phones. The FBI had to plant a damn mole to become Hansen's right and they were. But Vince, well, he was Canadian. If they wanted to do anything to Phantom, they had to secure a joint operation. So officials from the San to meet with the Royal Turns out, the RCMP had already been investigating Phantom for years, estimated their sales had But they had a problem. There's no legal framework in Canada to do anything about it. But in the US, well, they've got the RICO Act. A law invented to prosecute mafia leaders for organized crime, who were rarely committing just involved in the organization of it. For this reason, the but actually getting well, that was proving challenging. You needed someone who already It took them over six attempts, but once they had it in they orchestrated the In their request to Phantom, they stated that their had been arrested and that they had evidence in that chat that could lead to their own arrest. Phantom Secure workers said no problem, confirmed that they would destroy the evidence of criminal conduct even when they explicitly But this wasn't enough. What the FBI really wanted was an omission from See, Phantom's phones were kept Vince's hands clean, it was also a great The FBI's idea was to plant an agent to become a distributor with the goal of developing a They would do this by having their mole inform him of great new happening in Las Vegas. We're talking big time cartel that were allegedly seeking to privatize their business operations. These traffickers were, of who just so happened to wanna meet Vince to chat about his product in person. It was around this time that but now the Blackberries were nearly 10 years old, and Phantom Service was He was selling less and less, but Vince liked to spend, he wanted to maintain And so according to a Vice he was willing to sell to anybody. Actually, Joseph Cox wrote and did the research to uncover almost everything I just told you. Link to his book is in So now perhaps a little desperate. When his fake distributor told to meet with these new clients, he did. In that meeting, they asked him all sorts that when answered, And Vince, of course, listed all the neat features like remotely wiping conversations, using GPS technology to and assuring them that specifically for their business and impenetrable to law enforcement. After that meeting, the that they even bought a Without even knowing it, he had just sealed his fate. A year later, the FBI plant, who had now been promoted high within Phantom Secure's organization for his apparent ability to sell, was asking Vince to come This time, to watch a UFC match, even told Vince to bring But when Vince checked into the Wind Hotel nearly two hours late and it wasn't just his now favorite a slew of agents from stormed him, were and then another agent comes slips a hand into Vince's pocket and takes out his Phantom Secure phone, making sure to keep the thing on. He had been bamboozled and bad, but Vince of course, was But by the time they brought testimonials, and most importantly, undercover footage from him selling services to last year in Las Vegas, Vince knew he was going to And this is when the feds dropped a deal that they'd like to propose. They would let him walk a free man in exchange for a little help. They want to know if it was possible to install a backdoor one which would allow sent by all users. This kicked off a negotiation that would go on for three days, a careful game where Vince to avoid them, just outright but not enough to Eventually, Vince caved. Agreed to work with them To go back with the agents to their headquarters in San Diego. At this good news, the lead agent told everyone This hotel room had the last three days. But in the middle of the night, surrounded by sleeping agents, Managed to slip outta the room, made a brief pit stop at his wife's room who was one over they had gave her a kiss goodbye, and then snuck through the calling a friend to pick him He had to reach the As early morning hit, he sent told them that he was just out for a walk, had to clear his head, that But this was a lie and by the time, he was going as fast as possible. Vince had slipped out 20 hours away from the Canadian border between Washington and Vancouver. There was no fence, he could literally run He had committed no crimes in Canada. It would take the Feds years to secure an extradition request, if even possible, if only he could just make it across. Still speeding on the Interstate, Vince begins frantically messaging the executives at his company, warning them about what was going on, but keeping it vague enough to avoid blowing the whole damn thing up if he was able to make it and turn this whole thing around. The feds were now in a mad In an ironic twist, the problem Phantom was now being used against him. See, they had taken his and could see what wifi networks his personal, non Phantom They saw him at a Starbucks, he stayed at a hotel briefly, They needed to actually get and so they rushed to get a court order to get permission to do that, and it was approved in record time. They could see him moving north fast now. They were calling every local sheriff to try and stop him in his tracks, but then they got their big break. Vince stopped 30 minutes in Bellingham. Maybe his friend didn't want to take him to the actual crossing. But then they noticed something funny. His wifi was connected He was waiting for some bacon and eggs. As Vince sat in the corner of the diner, enjoying his first quiet meal and what must have felt like forever, a group of men acting a little too alert for breakfast goers walked in, made their way straight towards Vince. He didn't resist. Back in San Diego, the agents celebrated. But this was just part one. To coincide, they took control of and shut down all Phantom secure servers, bringing offline countless gangs and crime organizations around the world. Vince was ultimately sentenced with a three year period of But still, for the Feds, They had seemingly lost their one shot to create the biggest backdoor in history, gain unfiltered access to of the world's most or at least they thought they had because one of Phantom had an idea to keep himself outta trouble. He quietly approached the one that could be even more effective than their original plan, an idea that would lead to to fill the gap in the market Speaking of abusing private data, let's talk about today's sponsor, Incogni. So I've been using Incogni and during that time, more and more big data Like National Public Data, billions of records including leak to the website breach forms by a threat actor called USDOD. You might remember him from my video on &quot;The Hacker Who Can Never since been arrested, by Those social security and that's why I hate and it's appalling lack of regulations around selling my personal information. Like number one, once they've been hacked and it's leaked online, it's too late. It can be abused by people who I covered for ransoming people with their leaked therapy records. Then number two, they're collecting and selling to the highest bidder, bidders that wanna spam my phone, send me junk mail, or perhaps stalk me. Seriously, have you ever seen Anyone can get on those. This is where Incogni steps in. They request on your behalf that brokers remove your information. Then they follow up and keep insisting. They do this constantly year round. And that's so important because there's this constant You can do this by yourself, by the way, Incogni's blog has steps to do it, but there's hundreds of brokers and they make it as hard as possible. Look, it takes nine steps including taking a phone call from them. These brokers are not your friends. That's why I let Incogni I've signed up, now I do nothing else except look at their to see all of their hard work. Since using Incogni, I'm getting and I'm not so worried about opening up loans or credit cards, and I'm not so worried I get some really bizarre emails despite no one even So if you're ready to take go to incogni.com/crumb to get 60% off an annual plan. That's incogni.com/crumb, code &quot;crumb.&quot; An amazing deal by an amazing company. Thank you, Incogni. I would say Meet Afgoo, but we can't because the FBI has gone to great lines to protect his identity. We don't know his real name, What we do know is that he was a big time distributor for Phantom, was close to big criminals like Hakan. But what was special about him is that he had a technical background. He could explain what Phantom was in a way that legitimized it. Afgoo had planned on had been secretly working while selling for Vince. But when he found out that his future wasn't looking too bright. The feds were already tracking And so in a leap of faith, he had his lawyer reach out to the FBI, attempting to strike a deal. Software was simple, he would develop a new with a real-time backdoor into Little did he know, this is the exact idea feds had been drooling And so it was subtle, they struck a deal. The FBI was going to start a a guy who they were at the helm of the entire thing. The name of this new phone, Anom. And come late 2018, Afgoo got to work using the FBI's budget. Set up a fake company, to develop the thing. They were told that they for big corporations that wanted to keep their Of course, that was a lie, but it worked. They had to keep this Truth be told, that first was apparently hot garbage. Chunks of the code were from other messaging apps. It was a huge mess, but it worked. They had taken Google Pixels and made them load a custom This housed a very special calculator app that when you enter in your special pin, the Anom app would load. This was essentially a ripoff of WhatsApp. It offered real-time, instant messages, which was a huge step up from Phantom. I mean, criminals previously were using basically a So to be able to send in real time was a breakthrough of its own. But Anom also let them Top of that, they included a like message delete timers, a customer support that you could contact to erase all your tracks, a button to nuke all your contacts. Like the only feature that is that all of this was being They could see every photo, You know, you tried to nuke everything, it would just hide it for you and tell the FBI that To top it off, they created a custom panel that would let other read everything Anom was collecting. It was time for them to launch the phones, but for that to happen, and a lot of them. Thankfully, Afgoo wasn't but a man with some serious connections in the criminal world. Meet Domenico Catanzariti, heir to a family of olive oil producers. But behind that smile is a long list of drug related crimes, from owning meth labs to trafficking large shipments of cocaine. So naturally, he was Anom was looking for. The collapse of Phantom His business depended on it. So when Afgoo handed him five Domenico didn't hesitate. Trust wasn't an issue. I mean, Afgoo was the one that introduced him to Phantom Now, Afgoo told him, look, give these phones sell them for a subscription The FBI was operating like They were willing to give just to attract the first clients. And this was a great decision because Domenico had some, well, he knew mafia that was connected to the Australian drug trade. And so before the FBI knew it, phones were lighting up capturing hundreds of Seeing this scheme as a success, the FBI quickly contracted to produce a bunch more phones, and they were passing as fast as he could get rid of them. By the summer of 2019, just Anom's user base was All the cool criminals in The Comancheros even called &quot;Get It Done.&quot; But the FBI's real plan was to essentially just Australia wasn't gonna cut it. And their next target, they where cocaine trade was But FBI had just little problem. They still didn't have legal access to read the messages collected with Anom. While they were pretty confident that they could figure it out with Australia and New Zealand, the agents really needed a volunteer among the European Union to help them out. And that volunteer would who granted them a covert court order, essentially letting them And with this, they were The FBI now had a foundation to run on, a foundation that they will But as this thing grew in size, it was gonna get harder and As Anom phones gained popularity, it wasn't just criminals innocent people were too, mainly to chat with secret lovers. So the agents who were all these incoming messages were now sifting through and explicit pictures. Yet for the agents, spying on The phone was designed and marketed specifically for criminals, so owning one made you a target, even if you just wanted privacy, even if it was for completely which that's pretty questionable. Curious about your thoughts Of course, they were kind of trying to avoid wiretapping innocent citizens, especially attorneys, but wasn't so easy with now selling the thing. The hardest part, however, Agents often allowed to play out for the But things got trickier when Agents could see everything even execution videos. When lives were at risk, they were sometimes forced to act, but they didn't wanna that their phones were compromised. That would jeopardize And so one of the tactics they employed to avoid raising suspicion is sending anonymous tips to And fortunately, criminals Instead, they would turn on each other, thinking they had moles which actually inadvertently For Anom, the world was truly The only problem is there and they wanted to run They wanted all the So at this point that Afgoo someone that he used to sell That's right, it's the Facebook And he had already been found it all on his own. So when Afgoo asked him he didn't hesitate at all. Now, here's the thing about Hakan. He's got a big ego, I He started to present to prospecting buyers. The FBI, Afgoo, the real CEO played along. They needed him, this was He was ruthless, yet professional. His influence in the criminal This was the perfect And with this, it was So at this point that even more new features, voice scramblers, secure file vaults, the ability to pixelate into store images before sending them. And as always, big brother unscrambled, unedited, Anom was doing well, but a lucky streak was See, Anom had to compete with two really big players in the market. EncroChat and Sky Global. After five years of EncroChat had amassed 60,000 users. 90% of them linked to organized crime. But come June, 2020, news broke that their infrastructure had been hacked by French police. They had been reading all EncroChat's admins had Millions of messages had EncroChat sent a panicked wipe your phones, throw them away. But the damage was done. There were over 6,000 arrests worldwide, with 197 of those being 900 million Euros was This sent a shockwave They needed a new secure phone provider. Some went to Sky Global, but to the FBI's luck, Overnight Anom's user base doubled. And to make the numbers Anom was slowly conquering all of Europe with a new main man. So hakan used this opportunity to partner with a big time Maximilian Rivkin, better Microsoft was one of the many Had to flee from Sweden, Without a secure phone provider, how would he run his empire remotely? This is when Hakan invited him to Istanbul to check out the Anom phone. Needless to say, Microsoft was sold. Soon they were pushing Anom and making a crap load of money doing it. So much that they opened up in Anom office with a big LED logo. Here's Microsoft posing next to it. Remember, Hakan's still can only imagine what the FBI thought when they saw this picture. Now, these two goobers realized that the only thing standing in their way from making more money than was Sky Global. Sky Global had 171,000 registered devices since their inception in 2008 and they wanted those users. But they had to position and they knew just the way to do that. See a Sky subscription and 2000 smackeroo a month. So Hakan and Microsoft decided to undercut the hell outta Sky. They start peddling Anom and it worked. The FBI couldn't be any happier. This newfound user base, even Sweden, among many other European countries, joined operation with the FBI to read the Anom messages and do not use Anom messages as evidence. It must remain a secret. A secret that was getting as the FBI had been mobilizing more agents to analyze the fire hose By March, 2021, Belgian police began a sweeping crackdown, nearly 200 raids resulting in 48 arrests with the seizure of over 1.2 million euros and 117 tons of cocaine. The common thread among they were using Sky Global. Sky Global was of course denying rumors that the Dutch police had to read user messages in real Sky was too risky to use. Criminals had no other And to say that a no struggled will be an understatement. New users were flooding in and distributors were making The Gold Rush was so intense that the FBI ran out of Google Pixels, forcing them to purchase just to meet the overwhelming demand. Distributors were raking in millions, but the Feds, they had another problem. These phones were now in the hands of US citizens more than ever, and the FBI, well, they weren't authorized Under the Fourth Amendment, Americans are protected against unreasonable meaning federal agents or wiretap order to monitor And the important thing here is that the Constitution So that's why the rest of but in the US, things were different. The FBI had tried, they submitted a request to the Office of the division of the Department of Justice, which is responsible for all US wiretaps. But the OEO had sat on this request for months with no answer. It was clear that there was a split between the aggressive eager to expand their operation, and the higher ups in the Despite this, without Anom had pushed forward. The agents allegedly avoiding coming from US citizens, but they knew they were By 2021, the number of devices with 9,000 of them in active views. Each member's data on the FBI's servers. Anom is now the biggest network What started as several on less than a hundred users have become an actual office space with over 130 agents and 45 different languages a day. Sooner or later, something and the criminals would figure The feds knew that this house of cards was already getting pretty weak. They needed an exit plan, but one that would give them They wanted to initiate a mass arrest, capture as many criminals as Not only that, the FBI wanted to make &quot;Come out and declare yes, it was us all along and Shuttering criminal sense in any technology that they And so the date for the exit the same day that Lithuania's court order allowing the FBI to was set to expire. 9,000, that's how many police to participate in what was With each individual target being assigned to an agency close to them, combining messages with other evidence to ensure successful prosecutions for everyone they arrested. But the FBI made their own separate list, reserved for the people who Hakan and Microsoft were of The biggest challenge they face now was they didn't want any of the criminals getting an early heads up. So the plan was to follow the sun. The Australian authorities started arresting people Then law enforcement in Europe started rushing criminal hoping to catch them while Finally, the day was closed in the US by them making a big reveal, a 51 minute long news conference, detailing how they tricked into using their fake encrypted device. With over 500 arrests in a this marked the single largest law enforcement sting in history. In numbers, that sounds 40 tons of drugs, 300 and more than 48 million in For the agents back in San it was a huge success. In the following months, the including a yacht carrying As for Microsoft, following the action day, he was indicted for drug trafficking, money laundering, and conspiracy to commit murder, but has since remained at large. They don't know if he's but the US and Swedish law enforcement have placed a $5 million bounty on him, so if you see him around. Things didn't work out So he remained untouchable for despite being the first presented by the US authorities. Turkey didn't have any Eventually, Australia and in a joint operation police forces in Turkey arrested 37 people heavily involved in drug related crimes, including Hakan himself. Here he is sitting on the floor with his hands behind his back. He faces up to 20 years in prison. As for Afgoo, he remains anonymous, protected by the feds for his cooperation. He was paid $120,000 for his work. Perhaps he's already creating the next honeypot for the feds, if it isn't in your pocket already.