- Welcome to the Huberman Lab Podcast, where we discuss science, for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford School of Medicine. Today we are discussing memory. In particular, how to improve your memory. Now the study of memory many decades, and by now there's of how memories are formed in the brain. The different structures involved and some of the neuro chemicals involved. And we will talk about some of that today. Often overlooked, are not just about learning. Memories are also about into a context. And that's because what's and in particular the human brain, is its ability to place of past events, the present, and future events. And sometimes even combinations Or present and future and so on. So when we talk about memory is how your immediate experiences relate to previous and future experiences. Today I'm going to make clear how that process occurs. Even if you don't have a background in biology or psychology, I promise to put it into language that anyone can access and understand. And we are going to talk about the science that points to specific tools for enhancing learning and memory. We're also going to talk about unlearning and forgetting. There are of course incidences in which we would like to forget things. And that too is a biological process for which great tools exist. To, for instance, eliminate the emotional load of that you really did not like, or that perhaps even was traumatic to you. So today you're going to learn about the systems in the brain and body that establish memories. You're going to learn why certain memories are easier to form than others. And I'm going to talk about specific tools that are grounded in not just one, not just a dozen, but in animals and humans that point to specific protocols that you can use in order to stamp down learning of particular things more easily. And you can also leverage to better forget or unload of experiences that you did not like. We're also going to and photographic memory. And for those of you that do not have a photographic memory, and I should point out that I do not have a photographic memory, either. Well, you will learn how to use your visual system in visual and auditory information. There are protocols to do this grounded in excellent So while you may not have by the end of the episode you will have tools in hand, or I should say, tools in mind or in eyes and mind, to be able to encode and better than you would otherwise. Before we begin I would like to emphasize that this podcast is and research roles at Stanford. It is, however, part to bring zero cost to consumer and science related tools In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the Our first sponsor is Eight Sleep. Eight Sleep makes smart mattress covers with cooling, heating, and sleep tracking. Many times on this the incredible relationship as well as temperature and wakefulness. Many people aren't aware of this, but waking up in the morning is in part the consequence of your body heating up. And falling asleep at night is in part the consequence dropping by one to three degrees. So it's vitally important of your sleeping I've had trouble over the years Or I should say, falling so much of an issue for me, but waking up two or has been an issue. Often times I'm too warm, I need to open a window. I need to adjust the temperature Eight Sleep mattress covers are terrific because you can program of temperature that you want in your bed, or I should say below you, throughout the night. So I've programmed my Eight Sleep to put my mattress into in order to fall asleep. And then to get slightly To get into even deeper sleep. And then to warm up as morning approaches. Now, as mentioned before, can be used for cooling and heating. So some of you may actually need to heat your mattress and Eight For me, I use Eight Sleep to And I have to say, even though I thought I was sleeping pretty well before, I have not experienced the sort of sleep that I've been getting By creating this descending temperature in the beginning part of the night, cooler, cooler, cooler. And then warming up towards morning. It even has a nice so I wake up now to a And the sleep that I'm And I feel so much better If you'd like to try Eight Sleep you can go to EightSleep.com/Huberman and check out the pod pro cover and save 150 dollars at checkout. Eight Sleep currently ships within the USA, Canada, and the UK. Again, that's EightSleep.com/Huberman to save 150 dollars at checkout. Today's episode is also Thesis makes custom nootropics. And to be quite honest, I Because nootropics means smart drugs. And there really isn't Of course, there is this but we now know there are lots of different forms of intelligence. Also, as a neuroscientist, we don't really think about intelligence, we think about those particular types of operations that you in different contexts. So for instance, some require that you remember Other tasks and life experiences and forms of learning involve Others creativity, and so on, and so on. So the word nootropics is too much of a catchall or throw away Thesis understands this. And what they've done is they've created nootropics that are each designed toward a particular end goal. For instance, they have blends for focus. Blend for motivation. A blend for clarity. They use only the highest Things like Alpha GPC I've been using Thesis for and I can confidently say their nootropics have been a game changer for me. I often take the clarity formula prior to long bouts of work, And the energy formula To get your own personalized you can go online to Take the three minute quiz four different formulas to Again, that's TakeThesis.com/Huberman and use the code Huberman at checkout to get 10% off your first box. Today's podcast is also InsideTracker is a that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I've long been a believer in getting regular blood work done. For the simple reason that impact your immediate can only be assessed from One of the challenges and DNA tests out there, however, is that you'll get the numbers back. You'll get information and hormones and so forth. But there are no directives as to what to do with that information. InsideTracker has solved that problem by creating a very easy to use dashboard. So you'll get your numbers back and you see what's in range And then they will point you to specific nutritional supplementation and behavioral tools that those numbers into the And I find that immensely beneficial because just having a bunch of data without any knowledge of is more overwhelming than If you'd like to try InsideTracker, you can go to InsideTracker.com/Huberman to get 20% off any of Again, that's InsideTracker.com/Huberman to get 20% off. Okay, let's talk about memory. And let's talk about how to get better at remembering things. Now in order to address we need to do a little bit And I promise this will And I promise that even if in biology, it will make sense. We are constantly being Patterns of touch on our skin, light to our eyes, light to Smells, tastes, and sound waves. In fact, if you can hear well, that's the arriving into your ears a computer, or some other speaker device. Each one of and all of are converted into electricity and chemical signals by your Your brain, your spinal cord, and all their connections And all the connections back to your brain and spinal cord. One of the primary jobs of is to convert physical events in the world that are non-negotiable, right? Photons of light are photons of light. Sound waves are sound waves. There's no changing that. But your nervous system does change that. It converts those things and chemical signals which are the language of your nervous system. Now just because you're being bombarded with all this sensory information and it's being converted into a language that neurons and the rest can understand, does not mean In fact, you are only going to perceive a small amount of that For instance, if you can you are perceiving my most likely, neglecting the feeling of the contact of your you happen to be sitting or standing on. So it is only by perceiving a subset, a small fraction of the sensory events in our environment, that we can make sense of the world around us. Otherwise we would just be overwhelmed with all the things that are happening in any one given moment. Now memory is simply a bias in which perceptions will be replayed Anytime you experience something, that is the consequence of specific chains of neurons, that we call neural And memory is simply a that specific chain of neurons So for instance, if you and I certainly hope that you can, well, that means that of neurons in your brain and when those neurons and communicate electrically in a particular sequence, Were that particular chain you would not be able Now this might seem immensely simple, but it raises this really which we've talked about before. Which is, why do we and not others? Because according to what I've just said, as you go through life, you're experiencing things all the time. You're constantly being Some of those sensory and only some of those perceptions get stamped down as memories. Today I'm going to teach get stamped down as memories. And I'm going to teach you how to leverage that process in order to remember the information Now, even though I've told you that a memory is simply that a particular chain of neurons will be activated in a particular sequence again and again, it In fact, most of what in a context of other events. So for instance, you can most and yet you're probably not thinking about when it was that you This generally happens when we are very, very young children. And yet, I'm guessing you a time when someone or made fun of or name. Or, as the case was for me, I got to the 3rd grade and And sadly for me, I lost the coin flip that allowed me to keep Andrew. And from about 3rd grade people called me Andy. Which I really did not prefer. So if you call me Andy in the comments, I'll delete your comment. Just kidding, doesn't bother me that much. But eventually I reclaimed Well, it was mine to but I started going by Andrew again. Why do I say this? Well, there's a whole And there may or not be a whole context to your name for you. But presumably, if you asked your parents why they named you your given name, you'll get a context, etc. That context reflects the activation of other neural circuits that are also related to other events in your life. Not just your name, but and who your parents are. And on, and on, and on. And so, the way memory works is that each individual thing that we remember or that we want to remember is linked to something by either a close, a medium, or a This turns out to be immensely important. I know many of you will read or will encounter to help you enhance your memory. You know, you have these 50 names in a room full of people. Or they can remember a bunch or maybe even in different languages, and often times that's So people will come up to either link the sound of a word or the meaning of a word in some way that's meaningful for them and will enhance their memory. That can be done and is and for those of you who can Most of us can't do that, or at least it requires a However, there are things that we can do that leverage the natural biology of our nervous system to enhance learning and memory of and particular information. Let's first just talk about the most basic ways that we and how to improve learning and memory. And the most basic one is repetition. Now the study of memory and the role of repetition actually dates back to the late 1800s, early 1900s when Ebbinghaus developed the first so-called learning curves. Now learning curves when you quantify how many repetitions of something are required in In fact, it's been said the understanding of learning by generating these learning curves. What do we mean by that? Well, before Ebbinghaus came along, learning and memory were thought to be philosophical ideas. Ebbinghaus came along and said, well, let's actually take some measurements. Let's measure how well I can remember a sequence of words or if I just repeat them. So what Ebbinghaus did is he would take a sequence of numbers, or words on a page and he would read them. And then he would take a And we have to presume he didn't cheat, and he would write down as many of them as he could and he would try and keep them in the same sequence. Then he would compare to the original list and he would see how many errors he made. And he would do this over, and over, and over again. And as you would expect, early in the training and the learning it took a lot more repetitions to get the sequence correct. And over time, it took fewer sequences. And he referred to that difference in the initial number of repetitions that he had to perform versus the later number of repetitions he had to perform as a so-called savings. So he literally thought of the brain as having to generate a kind And he talked about in the amount of effort that he had to put forward in order And what he got was a learning curve. And you can imagine what that It had a very sharp peak at the beginning that dropped off over time. And of course, he remembered all this meaningless information. But even though the information might have been meaningless, and what Ebbinghaus demonstrated Because what it said we can activate particular and that repeated activation lays down what we call a memory. And that might all seem like a big duh, but prior to Ebbinghaus, Now, I should also say Ebbinghaus, because of when he was alive, was not aware of these things that we called neural circuits. It was in 1906 that Golgi for actually showing that connected by synapses, these where they communicate. So he may have been aware of that, but the whole notion of neural circuits hadn't really come about. Nevertheless, what the really established was just repeating things over is sufficient to learn. Something that no doubt but had never been formally quantified. Now, if we look at that result, there's something really a little bit cryptic, that's Which is, the information wasn't any more than it was the first, probably and less and less interesting And yet it was sheer repetition that allowed him to remember. Now sometime later in a psychologist in Canada named Donald Hebb came up with what was And Hebb's postulate, broadly speaking, is this idea that if a sequence of neurons is active at the same time, that would lead to a strengthening of a connections between those neurons. And many, many decades we now know that postulate to be true. Neurons themselves are not So every memory is the consequence, as I told you before, of of a particular chain of neurons. And what Ebbinghaus and what Donald Hebb proposed through experimentation was that if you encourage Meaning have neurons fire they will strengthen their connections. It leads to a bias in the probability that those neurons will be active again. Now, this is vitally we hear a lot about how of new neurons added into the brain. Or that every time you learn something, a new connection in your brain forms. Well, sorry to break it to you, but that's simply not the case. Most of the time, and I not all but most of the it's because existing but existing neurons through co-activation Through repetition or, and or through very strong In fact, there's something whereby we experience something and we will remember that thing forever. This is often most associated and I'll explain why in a few minutes. But it can also be associated Like the first time you Or something that happened Or the first time that you saw your child. Or any other positive extremely negative event. So again, both repetition, and I guess we could label it intensity. But what we really mean is strong activation these traces, these circuits to be active again, than had or not some strong So with that in mind, let's contrarian question that I raised before. Which is, why do we remember anything? Everyday you wake up, your neurons in your brain and body are active. Different neural circuits are active. And yet, you only of the things that happen each day. And yet, you retain a lot of information from previous days and the It is only with a lot of repetition or with extremely strong activation of a given neural circuit that And so in a few minutes I'll explain how to get extremely strong activation of particular neural circuits. Repetition is pretty obvious. Repetition is repetition. But in a few minutes I'll illustrate a whole set of experiments and a whole set of tools that point to how you can get extra strong activation as it relates to learning so that you will remember that information, with one trial of learning, but certainly with far fewer repetitions than would be required otherwise. Before we go any further I want to preface the discussion by saying that there are a lot of In fact, were you to take a voyage into the neuroscience, and you would find an immense number of different terms to describe the immense number of different types of memory that researchers focus on. But for the sake of today's discussion, I really just want to medium term memory, and longterm memory. And while there is still debate, as is always the case about the exact divisions between short term, medium, and longterm memory, we can broadly define short term memory and longterm memory. And we can describe a of those that I think you can relate to in your everyday life. The most common form of short term memory that we're going to focus Working memory is your ability to keep a chain of numbers in mind but the expectation really isn't that you would remember and certainly not the next week. So a good example would be a phone number. If I were to tell ya a phone number, 493-2938, well you could 493-2938. But if I came back tomorrow and asked you to repeat that chain of numbers, most likely you would not. Unless, of course, we to stamp down that memory into your mind and commit it to longterm memory. Now of course, in this day in age, most people have phone numbers and they don't really have to It's usually done by contact So a different example that some of you are probably more familiar with would be those security codes. So you try and log unto and it asks you for a security code that's been sent to your text messages and you can either plug that in directly in some cases, or you have to remember that short sequence of anywhere usually from six to seven, Your ability to do that, between web pages or apps by remembering the sequence by texting or keying that's a really good Longterm memory, of the sort that we're going to be talking a lot about today is your ability to commit certain patterns of information, either or motor information. Right, the ability to move your limbs in a particular sequence. Over long periods of time. Such that you could remember it a day, or a week, or a month, or several years later. So we've got short term And we've got this working memory which is sort of keeping something online but then discarding okay. Not online on a computer, but online within your brain. There are also two major that I'd like you to know about. One is explicit memory. So this is not necessarily explicit of the sort that you're But rather the fact that you So you have an explicit Presumably you have an explicit memory of the house or the apartment You know something and And you can declare it. So I can ask you, what was the color of the first car that you owned? Or what is the color of your These sorts of things. That's an explicit declarative memory. But you also have explicit Now procedural memories, involve action sequences. The simplest one, it's is walking. If I say, how is it that you walk from one room to the other? You'd probably say, and then I turn left. I say, no, no, no. How is it exactly that you do it? You say, well, I move my left foot, then my right foot, then my left foot. And you could describe that. So it's an explicit procedural memory. So much so that if you were going to teach a young toddler how to walk, you would probably say Okay, then you know, probably for the toddler. But you're going to encourage them to move one leg then the other. And you're going to for moving one leg then the other. Because you have an explicit procedural memory of how to walk. Okay, almost ridiculously simple. Maybe even truly ridiculously simple, but nonetheless, when you think about it in the context of neural pretty amazing. Even more amazing is the fact that all explicit memories, both declarative and procedural explicit memories can be moved from explicit to implicit. What do I mean by that? Well, in the example of walking you might have chuckled a little bit or kind of shook your head and said, this is a ridiculous thing to ask. How do I walk from one room to the next? I just walk. I just do it. Ah, well, what is just do it? What it is, is that you have Meaning your nervous without you actually having to think about what you know about how to walk. You just get up out of your chair or you get up out of bed and you walk. In the brain you have a structure. In fact, you have one on It's called the hippocampus. The hippocampus literally means seahorse. Anatomists like to name that they think those When I look at the hippocampus, frankly, it doesn't look like a seahorse. Which either reflects of what a seahorse really or I think it's fair to say that those anatomists of creative elaboration what the hippocampus looks like. Nonetheless, it is a curved structure. It has many layers. It's been described by my and by others as looking or a cinnamon roll, is And if you were to take one cinnamon roll, chop it down the middle. So now you've got two half cinnamon rolls and rather than put them back together in the configuration they were before, you just slide one down so that you've got essentially two C's. Two C-shaped halves of this cinnamon roll and you push them together, right, slightly off set from one another. Well, that's what the And I think that's a of its actual physical structure. But I guess if you were to as the name, well then a brain atlas and it would be called two half-C cinnamon rolls So that's not very good. So I guess, seahorse will work. Hippocampus is the name of this structure and it is the site in your brain, and again, you have one on in which explicit declarative It is not where those memories It is where they are In contrast, implicit memories, the subconscious memories, elsewhere in the brain. Mainly by areas like the cerebellum, but also the neocortex, the kind of outer shell of your brain. The cerebellum literally means mini-brain. And it does in fact And is in the back of the brain. And the neocortex is the that covers all the other stuff. So, the hippocampus is vitally important for establishing these of what you know and Now, in order to really of the hippocampus in explicit declarative, and and to really understand from implicit declarative and we have to look to a clinical case. And the clinical case is a patient who went by the name HM. Patient's go by their initials in order to maintain confidentiality HM had what's called intractable epilepsy. So he would have these really dramatic, so-called grand mal For those of you that know or that have epilepsy, you You can have petite mal seizures, You can have tonic clonic seizures, which are sometimes not even detectable. You can have absent seizures where people will just stop, it's kind of goes on pause and It was reported actually that Although I don't know that's ever really been confirmed neurologically. Grand mal seizures are extremely severe and that's what HM had. So he could just be going about his day and maybe even cooking, or operating any kind of machinery, and then all of a sudden a drop seizure. So he would just physically drop and go into a grand mal seizure. So convulsing of the whole body, loss of consciousness, etc. Or he would feel it coming on. Often times people with epilepsy can feel the epileptic seizure coming on. Kind of like a wave from And sometimes they can get to a safe circumstance, but not always. And so the frequency and the were so robust that the neurosurgeons and neurologists decided the origin, what they call the foci of those seizures, and Because the way seizures work is they spread out from that focus, or that foci of brain tissue. And unfortunately for HM, the focus of his seizures So after a lot of deliberation, a neurosurgeon, in fact neurosurgeons in the world at that time, made what are called electrolytic lesions, actually burned out the And as a consequence, he Now the consequence of this was that he couldn't exist in normal, everyday life, like most people. So he had to live mostly, not entirely, but mostly in a kind of hospital setting. And I've talked to I should say, who met HM directly, because he's no longer alive. But an interaction with him He would walk up to you just fine. You wouldn't know that he He could walk fine, he could speak fine. And you'd say, hi, I'm Andrew. And he'd say, hi, I'm whatever He wouldn't say HM, but he'd And then perhaps someone new He might turn around, look at that person, as any of us might do. Then turn around back to me And if I were to say, well, And you just told me your And he'd say, I'm sorry, I What's your name? So you'd go through this So a complete lack of Now he did have some memory for previous events in his life Again, hinting at the idea that memories are not necessarily they're just formed in the hippocampus. So once they've moved to other brain areas, he could They're in a different They're in a different pattern of firing of other neural circuits. But he couldn't form new memories. Now there's some very important and interesting twists on what HM could and could not do in terms that teach us a lot about the brain. In fact, I think most that this unfortunate and the subsequent neuro taught us much of what we know, or at least think about, in terms of human learning and memory. For instance, as I mentioned before, he still had implicit knowledge. He knew how to walk. He knew how to do certain things like make a cup of coffee. He knew the names of people that he had met much earlier And yet he couldn't form new memories. Now, in violation to that last statement, there were some elements that suggests that there was some sort of residual capacity to but it wasn't what we normally think of as explicit declarative For instance, it's been reported or it's been said, I should say, because I don't know that the studies were ever done with intense that if you were to tell HM a joke, and he thought it was funny, He liked jokes, so you'd say hey, HM, I want to tell you a joke. You tell him a joke and Then you could leave the room, come back, and tell him the same joke again. Now keep in mind, he did not remember that you told him the joke previously. And the second time he would And then you'd leave the Say hi, I'm Andrew. And he'd say, oh, nice to meet you. Because as you know, as you recall, because you can recall things. But he couldn't recall things. He didn't know that he just met you. Or at least he couldn't remember it. You tell him the joke a and with each subsequent he found it a little less funny. Just as, keep this in mind, folks, if you tell a joke and don't tell it again. At least not immediately. Not to the same person or the same crowd because the second time and the third time it's And that actually has to of dopamine and it's And that's the topic of a future podcast where we talk all about humor But the point being that seem to exist in a kind within HM's brain. What do I mean by that? Well, this underscores that he had an implicit memory of having And it suggests that humor, or is somehow more related to procedures. Similar to walking or a motor ability than it is to this precise All right, that's a little but the point is that HM lacked He couldn't tell you He could not learn new information. And he couldn't tell unless he had learned many years prior. Now, there have been a lot that have had brain or I should say due to due to strokes, due to and other forms of what I-N-F-A-R-C-T, infarct is the word we use to describe damage to a And many different patients of infarct have taught and other aspects of the brain work. HM really teaches us that what we know and what we are able to of things that we are aware of and learnings that have been passed off into subconscious knowledge, Our brain knows, but we don't know exactly how we know that thing. And I tell you the to understand a joke, but of the joke it has less and less and less of an impact in creating of humor in HM. Not as just an anecdote but because emotion itself turns out to be the way in which even if those are memories for things that are not funny, are not intensely sad, are not immensely happy or don't evoke a really strong emotional response, or even any emotional response. And the reason for that is that emotions, just like perception, just like sensation, are the consequence of being present in our brain and body. And as I'm going to tell you next, there are particular neuro chemicals that you can leverage in order to learn specific information for a much longer period of time, maybe even forever. And you can do that by leveraging the relationship in your nervous system between your brain and your body. And your body back to your brain. So let's talk about tools Now there's one tool that And it's always worked, it works now, and it will work forever. And that's repetition. The more often that you perform something or that you recite something, the more likely you are to And while that might seem obvious, it's worth thinking about what's happening when you repeat something. But when I say what's happening, I mean at the neural level. What's happening is the firing of particular chains of neurons that reside in a So a particular sequence neuron A, B, C, D played over and over and over again. And with more repetitions, of those nerve connections. Now, repetition works but is they either don't have the patience, they don't have the time, and sometimes they literally because they've got a deadline on something that they're Or they simply would like to be able to remember things better in general and remember them more quickly. This process of accelerating so that your learning curve doesn't go from having to perform and then gradually over time 500 times a day, 300 times a day, and down to no repetitions, right? You can just perform and every time. Well, there is a way to shift that curve so that you can essentially between the neurons that are involved in generating that memory How do you do that? Well, in order to answer that we have to look at the beautiful and Larry Cahill. James McGaugh and Larry Cahill did a number experiments over based on a lot of animal literature, but mainly focused on humans that really established what's required to get better at remembering things and to do so very quickly. I want to talk about one that was particularly important. And we will provide a link to this paper, it's some years old now, but the results still hold up. In fact, the results established an entire field of memory and What they did is they had human subjects come into the laboratory and to read a short paragraph of about 12 sentences. And the key thing is a paragraph that was pretty mundane. The content, the information was all related to the content So it was a cogent paragraph. Right, it just wasn't a But it described a kind of Maybe it would be a story about someone who walked into a room, wrote for a little bit, then got up and had lunch. You know, just kind of Not very interesting. Another group of subjects read also a 12 sentence paragraph. But that paragraph included a subset of sentences that had a lot of Or that had language that could evoke an emotionally intense response in the person reading it. So it might have talked or a very intense surgery. But it also could be positive stuff. Things like a birthday party, or a celebration of some other kind. Or a big sports win. So in other words, you have People either read a boring paragraph, or they read a really And again, the emotions could either be positive or negative emotions. Subjects left the laboratory they were called back to the laboratory and I should say, at no did they know they were Okay, they don't even know why they were reading this paragraph. They came in either for That's typically how these things are done on college campuses or elsewhere. They come back into the lab and they would get a pop quiz. They would be asked to recall the content of the paragraph that Now as is probably expected, the subjects that read the remembered far more of the and were far more accurate in their remembering of that information. Now, that particular Many people had previously described how emotionally intense events are better remembered than In fact, way back in the 1600s Francis Bacon, who's largely credited with developing the scientific method, said, quote, memory is that makes an impression Inspiring fear, for example, or wonder, shame, or joy. Francis Bacon said that in 1620. So Jim McGaugh and Larry Cahill were certainly not the first to demonstrate or to conceive of the idea that emotionally laden experiences are more easily remembered However, what they did next was immensely important for and for our building of tools to enhance learning and memory. What they did was they evaluated the capacity for stress and for particular neuro chemicals associated with stress to improve our ability Not just information that is emotional, but information of all kinds. So I'm going to describe in animal models just very briefly, and then experiments Because McGaugh worked mainly on animals, also human subjects. Larry Cahill, almost If you take a rat or a mouse and put it in an arena the animal receives an electrical shock and then you come back the next day, you remove the shock evoking device and you let the animal that animal will, quite understandably, avoid the location where it was shocked. So called conditioned place aversion. That affect of avoiding occurs in one trial. That's a good example So somehow the animal knows that it was shocked at that location, it remembers that. It is a hippocampal dependent learning. So animals that lack a hippocampus or who have their or otherwise incapacitated, will not learn that new bit of information. But for animals that do, they remember it after the first time and every time. Unless, you are to block the release of certain chemicals in the brain and body and the chemicals I'm adrenaline, and to some Things like cortisol. Now we know that the effect somehow involves epinephrine, at least in this particular Because if researchers do and they have done the but they introduce a of epinephrine, so that in response to the shock, but it cannot actually and have all its biological effects, well then the animal is perfectly happy to tread back into the area It's almost as if it didn't know, or we have to assume, it didn't remember that it received the So it all seems pretty Something bad happens in a location, you don't go back to that location. So that's condition place avoidance. But it turns out that the Meaning for something called you can take an animal, feed it or reward it in that arena. So you can give a hungry rat or mouse food at one particular location, take the animal out, No food is introduced, but it will go back to the location where Or you can do any variant of this. You can make the arena a little bit chilly and provide warmth at that location. Or you can take a male animal. And it turns out male rats and mice will mate at any point. Or a female animal so called receptive and give them an opportunity to mate at a give location, they'll and wait away. This is perhaps why people go back to the same bar, or the seat at the bar, or the same restaurant and wait because of the one time they, you know, things worked out for them. Whatever the context was. Condition place preference. Condition place preference as depends on the release It's not just about stress. It's about a heightened emotional state in the brain and body. Okay, this is really important. It's not just about stress. You can get one trial learning for positive events, And you can get one trial Here I say positive and negative, I'm putting what's called valence on it. Making a value judgment about whether not the animal liked it or didn't like it. And we have to presume or didn't like and how it felt. But this turns out all to We know that because McGaugh and Cahill did experiments where they gave people a boring paragraph to read and only a boring paragraph to read. But one group of subjects was asked to read the paragraph and into very, very cold water. In fact, it was ice water. We know that placing especially if it's up to evokes the release of It's not an enormous release, but it's a significant increase. And yes, they measured adrenaline release. In some cases they also cortisol, etc. And what they found is that if one evokes the release of adrenaline through this arm into ice water approach, the information that they read previously, just a few minutes before, was remembered, it was retained as well as emotionally intense information. But keep in mind the was not interesting at all. Or at least, it wasn't emotionally laden. This had to be the effect into the brain and body, because or the function of adrenaline in the brain and or body, they could block this effect. Now the biology of are a little bit complex, but there's some nuance there and important to us. First of all, adrenaline is released in the body and in the brain. It's released in the Remember, epinephrine and Cortisol is also released These two little glands But it can't cross into the brain. It only has what we Quickening of the heart rate, right? Changes the patterns of blood flow. Changes our patterns of breathing. In general, makes our breathing In general makes our heart Within our brain we called locus coeruleus, which Which has the opportunity to sprinkler the rest of the brain with the neuromodulator as well as norepinephrine, And to essentially wake up or throughout the brain. So it's a very general effect. The reason we have two sites of release is because these neuro the blood-brain barrier. And so waking up the body with adrenaline and waking up the brain are two separate, so-called parallel phenomena. Cortisol can cross the blood-brain barrier because it's lipophilic. Meaning it can move through fatty tissue. And we'll get into the biology of that in another episode. But cortisol in general is released and has much longer term effects. And as I just told you, can permeate throughout the brain and body. Adrenaline has more local effects. Or at least is segregated This will turn out to be important later. The important thing to keep in mind is that it is the emotionality evoked by an experience, or to be more precise, it is the emotional state that you are in after you experience something that dictates whether quickly or not. This is absolutely important in terms of thinking about tools to improve your memory. And no, I am not going to suggest that every time you you plunge your arm into ice water. Why won't I suggest that? Well, it will induce the but there are better ways to Before I explain exactly I want to tamp down on the biology of how all this works. Because in that understanding to the best possible tools First of all, McGaugh and Cahill were excellent experimentalists. They did not just establish that you could quicken the formation of a memory by accessing material that or creating an emotional, after interacting with some thing. Some word, some person, some information. They also tested whether could be blocked by or by blocking adrenaline. So what they did is they that either had a lot of emotional content or they had people read paragraphs that were pretty boring, but then had them put their arm into ice water. And I should say they to increase adrenaline. There were even some shock experiments that were done by other groups. Any number of things to evoke the release of adrenaline. Even people taking drugs But then they also did what are They did experiments where they had people get into a highly emotional state from reading highly emotional material, or they got people to get neuro chemical state by and then taking a drug or an ice bath, or a shock. And then they also administered to block the affect of adrenaline and related chemicals And what they found is that even if people were exposed to or had a lot of adrenaline in their system because they received a drug to increase the amount of adrenaline. Two manipulations that keep that in mind. If they gave them a beta blocker, which reduced the response So no quickening of the heart rate. No quickening of the breathing. No increase in the and these kind of wake up Well then, the material wasn't What this tells us is that, yes, Francis Bacon was right. McGaugh and Cahill were right. Hundreds, if not and psychologists, and In stating and in thinking that high emotional states But what McGaugh and Cahill really showed, and what's most important to know, is that it is the presence high amounts of and perhaps cortisol as that allows a memory to It is not the emotion. It is the neuro chemical as a consequence of the emotion. And it's very important to understand that while those two things are related, they are not one and the same thing. Because what that means the release of epinephrine, or even just one or two of those chemicals after experiencing something, you are stamping down the experience that you just previously had. Now this is fundamentally important and far and away different than the idea that we remember things because or because they evoke emotion. That's true, but the real reason, the neuro chemical reason, is these neuro chemicals have the ability to strengthen neural connections by making them active just once. There's something truly magic about that neuro chemical cocktail that removes the need for repetition. Okay, so let's apply this knowledge. Let's establish a scientifically Meaning tools that take into account the identity of the neuro chemicals that are important for enhancing learning and the timing of the in order to enhance learning. When I first learned about the results of McGaugh and Cahill, I was also pretty upset, I was upset with myself. Because I realized that the way that I had been approaching learning In fact, it was probably to the enhanced protocol that I'm going to teach you today. My typical mode of while I was in college, or or as a junior professor, was to sit down to to try and learn, and Or if it was a physical environment I was going to and prior to that, to make sure that I was hydrated, because that's important to me. And certainly can ability to function and your And general patterns of alertness. But also, to caffeinate. I would have a nice, strong I would have a nice And I still drink coffee or I drink them in moderation, I think. Certainly for me. But typically I would drink those things before I would engage to learn or memorize. Or to acquire a new skill. Now caffeine in the form or any other form of caffeine does create a sense of alertness in our brain and body and it does that through The first mechanism is by Adenosine is a molecule that builds up in the brain and body the And it's largely what's responsible for our feelings of sleepiness and fatigue when we've been awake Caffeine essentially acts to block the effects of adenosine. It's a competing agonist, but it binds to the receptor for adenosine for some period of time from having its normal pattern of action. And thereby reduces our But it also increases state of alertness. So while it's reducing fatigue, it's also pushing on in order to directly And it does that in the transmission of in the brain and body. It also has this interesting the number and or efficiency, of dopamine receptors. Such that when dopamine is present, and is a molecule that and craving, and pursuit, that dopamine can have a more potent effect So caffeine really hits It hits other systems too, by reducing adenosine, increases alertness by increasing epinephrine release, or adrenaline release I should say, both from the adrenals in your body and form locus coeruleus And it can, in parallel the action or the efficacy So my typical way of would be to drink some caffeine on whatever it is that Try and eliminate distractions and then hope, hope, hope. Or try, try, try to as best as I could. And frankly, I felt like it And typically, if I leveraged other forms of pharmacology in order to things like Alpha GPC, I would do that by taking those things before I sat down to learn a particular set of information. Or before I went off to learn Now, for those of you out you're probably thinking, well, okay. The results of McGaugh and Cahill pointed to the fact that having learning something enhanced But a lot of these things like caffeine, or Alpha GPC can increase or dopamine or other molecules that can enhance memory So it makes sense to take it first, or even during learning, and then allow that increase to occur. And the increase will occur over a long period of time and will And while that is partially true, it is not entirely true. And it turns out it's not optimal. Work that was done by and in other laboratories evaluated the precise temporal relationship between neuro chemical and learning and memory. What they did is they had depending on the experiment, take a drug. It could be caffeine. It could be in pill form. Something that would increase adrenaline or related molecules that create this state of alertness that And they had them do it 30 minutes before, 10 minutes before, or five minutes before learning, or during the about of learning, right? The reading of the of the skill that one is trying to learn. Or five minutes, 10 minutes, 15 minutes, 30 minutes, etc. afterwards. So they looked very is best to evoke this adrenaline release. And it turns out that the best time window to evoke the release of these chemicals, if the goal is to enhance of the material is or just a few minutes, after you're repeating that information. You're trying to learn that information. Again, this could be cognitive information or this could be a physical skill. Now this really spits in the face of the way that most of us Most of us, if we use or Alpha GPC, we're taking those before or during an attempt to These results point to the fact that it is after the learning and memory that you really want to in epinephrine and the related molecules that will tamp down memory. So what this means is that caffeine or other compounds, and we'll talk about what those are and safety issues and If you're using those compounds in order to enhance learning and memory by taking them before or well then I encourage you to try and take them either late or immediately after the learning episode. Now given everything I've why would I say late or immediately after? Well, when you ingest or you take it in capsule form, there's a period of time before that gets absorbed into the body. And different substances, such as caffeine, Alpha GPC, etc are absorbed from the gut and reach the brain and in the brain and body at different rates. So it's not instantaneous. Some have effects within minutes, others within tens of minutes and so on. It's really going to depend on the pharmacology of those things and it's also going to depend on whether or not you what else you happen to have circulating in your blood stream, etc. But at a very basic level that there are not one, not dozens, but as I mentioned before, hundreds of studies in that point to the fact that triggering the increase of adrenaline or immediately after learning is going to be most beneficial if your goal is to retain that information for some period of time. And to reduce the number of repetitions required in order to Now, I want to acknowledge that on previous episodes of this podcast and in appearing on other podcasts, I've talked a lot about things and naps, and sleep as vital And I want to emphasize that none of that information has changed. I don't look at any of that as the consequence of what It is still true that the strengthening of connections in the brain, the literal neural plasticity, the changing of the circuits occurs during deep sleep and non-sleep deep rest. And it is also true, and I've mentioned these results earlier that two papers were Cell Press journal, excellent journal over the last few years showing that brief naps of about 20 up to 90 minutes in some period of time can enhance the rate However, those bouts of sleep, the deep sleep that night, I should say, or those brief naps, or even the so-called NSDR as we call it, non-sleep deep rest that was used to enhance the learning and memory of particular pieces of information. Either cognitive or physical That still can be performed, but it can be performed some hours later, even an hour later. It can be performed two hours Remember, it's in these that the actual reconfiguration of the neural circuits occurs, the strengthening of those It is not the case that you need to finish a about of learning and drop Some people might do that, but if you're really trying to optimize and enhance and improve your memory, the data from McGaugh and Cahill and many other laboratories from their initial work really point to the fact that the focus on the thing you're There are also some other Please see our episodes on learning. We have a newsletter You can access that at HubermanLab.com. It's a zero cost newsletter. You can grab that PDF. It lists out the things to Still try and get excellent sleep. Again, fundamentally physical health, and performance. And we can now extend from performance to saying including learning and memory. Nap if it doesn't interrupt Naps of anywhere from 10 to 90 minutes. Or non-sleep deep rest protocols will enhance learning and memory, but we can now add to that, provided it can be done in a safe way, is going to reduce the required to learn. And that should be done or immediately after a learning about. Which is compatible with all the other protocols that I mentioned. And the reason I'm revisiting this stuff about sleep and non-sleep deep rest is I think that some that they need to do that and today I'm saying to the contrary. Immediately after learning a heightened state of Now it's vitally important to point out that you do not need pharmacology. You don't need caffeine. You don't need Alpha GPC. You don't need any pharmacologic substance to spike adrenaline that you already are doing. Or that you can do safely. Or that you know you can do safely. And I always say, and I'll say it again, I'm not a physician so I'm I'm a professor, so I profess things. You need to what's safe for you. So if you're somebody who's and you suddenly drink to learn something, you are going to have a severe increase in alertness If you're panic attack prone, please don't start taking stimulants in order to learn things better. Please be safe. I don't just say that to protect me, I say that to protect you. And I should mention that if you're not accustomed to taking something, you always want to first check but also move into that gradually, right? Start with the lowest effective dose. The minimal effective dose. And sometimes the minimal effective dose is zero milligrams, it's nothing. Why do I say that? Well, we already talked they put people's arms into an ice bath in order to evoke adrenaline release. You are welcome to do that if you want. In fact, that's a pretty At least exogenous pharmacology way to approach this whole thing. That's a way of evoking that turns out also dopamine release. You could take a cold shower. You could do an ice bath or get into a cold circulating bath. We've done several episodes on the utility of cold for You can find those episodes Also the episode with from the biology department, Lots of protocols, in on cold for health and performance. That describe how best to use the cold shower or the ice bath in order to evoke epinephrine and dopamine release. The point is that the time in which you would want to do those protocols is after, ideally immediately Meaning when you're sitting down to learn new information or after trying to learn some new physical skill. Now whether or not that's compatible with the other reasons you're doing deliberate cold exposure, and whether or not that's compatible with the other things you're doing, that depends on the your training, your academic goals, your learning goals, etc. But if your specific purpose is to enhance learning and memory, you want And so what I'm telling with caffeine. You can do that with Alpha GPC. You can do that with a combination of caffeine and Alpha GPC. If you can do that safely. Some of you I know are using other forms of pharmacology. I did a long episode all about ADHD. I have to just really declare that I am not a fan, I am actually opposed to people using prescription drugs who are not prescribed those drugs in order to enhance alertness. I think there's a big addictive potential. There also is a potential to really disrupt one's own pharmacology around the dopaminergic system. However, some of you I know are prescribed things like ritalin, and things of that sort in order to increase alertness and focus. So for those of you that are prescribed those things from a board you're going to have to decide if you're going to take or after trying to learn. You also have to take into consideration that some of those drugs Some are shorter acting. And time that according to what you're trying to learn and when. So that's pharmacology. But as I mentioned, there You can use cold and cold because first of all, it Second of all, you can generally access it at low to zero cost, especially And third, you can titrate it. You can start with warmer water. You can make it very, very and you're able to tolerate that safely. You can make it moderately cold. How cold should it be in order Well, it should be uncomfortably cold but cold enough that you feel like you really want to get out, but can stay in safely. That's going to evoke adrenaline release. If it quickens your breathing, if it makes you go wide eyed. That's increasing adrenaline release. In fact, those effects of going wide eyed and quickening of the breathing and the challenges in thinking clearly, those are the direct effects of adrenaline on your brain and body. And of course, there are other ways to increase adrenaline. You could go out for a hard run. You could do any number of things that would increase Which things you choose is up to you, but from a very clear, solid grounding in research data, we can confidently say that spiking adrenaline after interacting with some material, physical that you're trying to learn, is going to be the best time Now I realize I'm being or perhaps a lot redundant. In repeating over and over that the increase in epinephrine should occur either very late in an or immediately after an I also want to emphasize of pharmacologic effects to create adrenaline. What do I mean by that sentence? What I mean is that McGaugh and colleagues explored a huge number of different compounds and approaches. Everything from the hand into the ice bath to injecting adrenaline, to caffeine, to drugs that block the affects Drugs like muscimol and picrotoxin. Please don't take those. These are drugs that reduce or enhance the amount of adrenaline and the overall takeaway is that anything that increases adrenaline will increase learning and memory and will reduce the number of repetitions Regardless of whether has an emotional intensity or not. Provided that spike in in the learning or immediately after. And anything that reduces will impair learning. And that's the key and that I'm adding now. Which is if you're taking Or if you're trying to learn something and it's not evoking much and you're not using any pharmacology or other methods to after learning that thing, well, you're not going to learn it very well. In fact, McGaugh and Cahill in humans looking at how much adrenaline is increased by varying of different things that they were trying to get people to learn. Or by changing the dosage of epinephrine. Or by changing the amount that they injected. Lots and lots of studies. The key thing to take is that for some people, adrenaline was increased 600 to 700%. So six to seven fold over baseline in the amount of circulating And keep in mind, sometimes that increase was due to the actual thing being very emotional, And sometimes it was a pharmacologic approach I don't think they ever but that would have been we can be sure. However, other people had So a very small increase in epinephrine. What we can confidently say on the basis of all those data is that the better that people Over and over again this was shown. Whether or not it was so learning a language, learning mathematics. Or whether or not it was I want to emphasize something because I know a number drinking a cup of coffee or having a cup of yerba mate or and taking some Alpha GPC or something before physical exercise. I'm not saying that's a bad thing to do or you wouldn't want to do that. But that's really to increase alertness. It won't enhance learning, at least not as well as the physical exercise. Now again, many of you, including myself, exercise for the sake of that exercise. So cardiovascular, resistance training. But we're not really focused So, I emphasize this just so it's immensely clear to everybody. If you want to use those approaches of increasing adrenaline prior to or during physical training, or cognitive work for I think that's perfectly fine, provided that's safe for you. It's only by moving it to late or after the learning that the role of that adrenaline increase to enhancing memory specifically. And as a cautionary note, don't think that you can push this entire system to the extreme over and over again, or chronically, as we In other words, you're to take a Alpha GPC and a double espresso do your focus about of work, and then spike adrenaline again afterwards and remember that stuff I'm not encouraging you, in from chronically increasing adrenaline both during and after if the goal is to learn. Why do I say that? Well, work from McGaugh has shown that it's of adrenaline that you release in your brain and body that It's the amount of adrenaline you release relative to the amount of adrenaline that was in your system just prior. Particularly in the hour or two prior. So again, it's the delta, as we say. It's the difference. So if you're going to you're not going to learn as well. The real key is to have Perhaps even just as much as you need in order to be able to focus on something, pay attention to it, and This is immensely important because while much of what we're talking about is actually a form of inducing a neuro chemical acute stress. Meaning a brief and rapid onset of stress. Well, chronic stress, of epinephrine and cortisol is actually detrimental to learning. And there's an entire mainly from the work of the great and sadly the late Bruce McEwen from the Rockefeller University. And some of his scientific offspring like the great Robert Sapolsky, showing that chronic stress, chronic elevation of epinephrine actually inhibits learning and memory. And also can inhibit Whereas acute, right, sharp increases in adrenaline and cortisol and indeed, can enhance the immune system. So if you really want to you might consider getting into a very calm and yet alert state. So a high attentional state that will allow you to focus on what it is that you're trying to learn. We know focus is vital and for triggering neuroplasticity. But remaining calm throughout that time and then afterwards spiking adrenaline and allowing adrenaline to on reducing the number of repetitions required to learn. So if you're like me, you're this beautiful work of and thinking, wow, I spiking my adrenaline at the tail end or immediately following an attempt to learn something. And yet, we are not the first to have this conversation. Nor were McGaugh and Cahill or any other researchers the first to start using this technique. In fact, there is a beautiful review that was published just in the journal Neuron, Cell Press Journal. Excellent journal. Called Mechanisms of Memory Under Stress. And I just want to read to you of this review, which all about memory and stress. So here I'm reading, and I quote, &quot;In Medieval times communities threw&quot; &quot;young children in the river when&quot; &quot;they wanted them to &quot;They believed that throwing &quot;after witnessing historic proceedings&quot; &quot;would leave a life long memory&quot; &quot;for the events in the child.&quot; Believe it or not, this is true. This is a practice that I don't know if they were Probably not. But somehow in medieval times it was understood that spiking adrenaline or creating a robust emotional experience after an experience that one would encourage the they didn't even know but would encourage the brain and body of that child to remember Very counter intuitive if you ask me. I would have thought that only being thrown into the river. My guess is that they remember that, but the idea here anyway, the things that preceded So both interesting and amusing and somewhat, I should say That this is a practice for many hundreds of years. And we are not the first to start thinking about using cold water as Nor are we the first using cold water induced adrenaline as a way to enhance learning and memory. This has been happening So up until now I've been talking about pretty broad contour of these experiments. I've been talking about the the role of epinephrine and so forth. I haven't really talked a lot about the underlying neural mechanisms. So we're just going to and describe those for you because they are informative. We all have a brain structure A lot of people think but it's actually associated and more generally, and I with detecting what sorts of events in the environment are to particular emotional states. Both positive emotional states and negative emotional states. So the neurons in the at figuring out, right, they but at detecting correlations between sensory events in the environment that trigger the release of adrenaline and what's going on in the brain. And because the amygdala is so extensively interconnected with It basically connects to everything and everything connects back to it. The amygdala is in a particular connections Provided certain conditions are met. And those conditions are the ones we've been talking about up until now. Emotional saliency that in epinephrine and cortisol. Or circulating epinephrine and cortisol being much higher than it was 10 minutes or 15 minutes before. And the net effect of the amygdala in this context is to of neural activity preceded that increase in adrenaline and corticosterone and strengthen those in that neural activity. So the amygdala doesn't have knowledge. It's not a thinking area. It's a correlation detector. And it's correlating neural chemical states of the brain and body, different patterns of electrical This is important because the fact that both negative and the different but somewhat overlapping chemical states that they create, or the conditions, as we say the and gates through which memory is laid down. And gates will be familiar to those of you who have done a bit An and gate is simply a condition in which you need one in order for a third thing to happen. So you need epinephrine robust activity in a if in fact that brain circuit It's not sufficient to have one Hence, the name and gate. And the amygdala is very these and gate contingencies. It's also a very generic brain structure in the sense that it doesn't really care what sorts of sensory events are involved provided they correlated in time with that increase in This has a wonderful side The dark side is that PTSD and traumas of various kinds often involve an increase in adrenaline because whatever it was that caused the PTSD was Caused these big increases And because the amygdala is Right, it's not tuned or designed in any kind of way to in response to particular types of sensory events, or perceptions. Well, then what it means is that we can start to become afraid of entire city blocks where in a particular room of in a city block. We can become fearful of a lot of people if in a place that contained a lot of people. The amygdala is not so much of a splitter, as we say in science. We talk about lumpers and splitters. Lumpers are kind of generalizers, if that's even a word. And I think it is, someone will tell me one way or the other. And splitters are people and specific and nuanced The amygdala is more of when it comes to sensory events. Other areas of the under very, very specific conditions and only those conditions. And similarly, epinephrine It's just a chemical that's circulating in our brain and body. There's no epinephrine specifically for a cold shower that is associated with a bad event which is distinct from the epinephrine associated with a really exciting event that makes you really alert. Epinephrine is just a So these systems have a lot of overlap and that can explain, in large part, why when good things happen and in the company of particular people, we often generalize to large categories of people, places, and things. And when negative things happen in particular circumstances, we often generalize about associated with that negative event. So now I'd like to talk about other tools that you can leverage that have been shown in quality, peer-reviewed studies to enhance learning and memory. And perhaps one of the most potent of those tools is exercise. There are numerous studies on this in both animals and Thanks to the beautiful work from New York University. Wendy's lab has identified to enhance learning and memory and other forms of As well as things that can augment, can enhance the effects of exercise on learning and memory and Wendy is going to be a It's actually the episode And it includes a lot of material that we have not covered today. And she's an incredible scientist and has some incredible findings that I know everyone is going In the meantime, I want to talk about some of the general effects and memory that she's discovered and that other laboratories If you recall earlier, I mentioned that learning and memory the strengthening of particular synapses and neural circuits in the brain. And not so much the increase in the number of neurons in the brain. There is one exception, however. And we now have both animal to support the fact that seems to increase what we call Neurogenesis is the The dentate gyrus is a that's involved in learning and memory of particular kinds. Right, certain types of events, particular contextual learning, but some other things as well. Sometimes involved in spacial learning. There's a lot debate about exactly what the dentate gyrus does, but for the sake of this discussion, and I think everyone in the neuroscience community would agree that the dentate gyrus is important for memory formation and consolidation. The dentate gyrus does seem certainly in the rodent brain, but more and more it's seeming where at least some new neurons are added throughout the lifespan. And, as it turns out, that can increase the proliferation of new neurons in this structure. And that those new neurons, excuse me, are important for the formation of certain types of new memories. There are wonderful data showing that if you use X-irradiation, which is a way to eliminate the formation or other tools and tricks to eliminate the formation of those cells that you block the of learning and memory. What does this mean? Well, there are a lot of I'm about to make that extend far beyond neurogenesis and the But it's very clear that getting anywhere from 180, or I should say a minimum of 180 to 200 minutes cardiovascular exercise, so that can be performed which would allow you to just So breathing hard but not super hard. Such as in sprints or high But doing that for 180 to is it appears the minimum threshold for enhancing some of associated with improvements and we believe that it is indirectly, I should say indirectly, in cardiovascular fitness in hippocampal dentate gyrus neurogenesis. What does that mean? The improvements in are indirectly impacting the ability of the dentate gyrus to To my knowledge there's between exercise and stimulating the production of new It seems that it's the that also relate to improvements in things like lymphatic flow, the circulation of lymph that are enhancing neurogenesis and that neurogenesis, Now in fairness to the and my colleagues at There is a lot of debate there is much if any neurogenesis But regardless, I think that the 180 to 200 minutes minimum of cardiovascular exercise for other health metrics. Now it is clear that and memory through other non-neurogenesis, non-neuron type mechanisms. And one of the more exciting ones that has been studied over the years is this notion of hormones in the blood stream to the brain and enhancing the function If the words hormones from I'm here to tell you that yes, indeed, your bones make hormones. We call these endocrine effects. So in biology we hear and endocrine. Those different terms a given chemical has an affect on a cell. For instance, a cell can It can have an affect on or it can have an affect on both itself, immediately neighboring far away in the body. And that last example of a given chemical or substance having and affect plus neighboring cells, is an endocrine effect. And a lot of hormones, not Hence why we sometimes hear as kind of synonymous terms. Your bones make chemicals that and have these endocrine effects. So they're effectively acting as hormones. And one such chemical is Now these findings arrived but one of the more important labs for the sake of this discussion today is the laboratory of Eric Kandel Eric is now, I believe still very sharp. And has studied learning and memory. It also turns out that Now, I happen to know from a half a mile to a mile a day. And again, this is anecdotal. I'm not referring to the But he credits that in which he keeps his brain sharp and has indeed kept his brain sharp for many, many decades. And as I mentioned before, So pretty impressive. His laboratory has studied the effects of exercise on hippocampal And other laboratories And what they've found is and perhaps other forms of exercise too, but mainly cardiovascular exercise creates the release of osteocalcin from the bones that travels to the of the hippocampus and encourages the electrical activity and of connections within the hippocampus and keeps the hippocampus functioning well in order to lay down new memories. Now osteocalcin has a lot of effects besides just improving the Osteocalcin is involved It's involved in hormone regulation. In fact, there's really nice evidence that it can regulate testosterone by the testes and ovaries. And a bunch of other effects Because again, it's acting It's arriving from bone to a lot of different organs to have effects. Load bearing exercise, in particular, turns out to be important for inducing the release of osteocalcin. And when you think about A nervous system exists to sense, perceive, etc. You've got taste, you've got smell, you've got hearing. But the vast majority especially in humans, is One, vision. We have an enormous amount of brain real estate devoted to vision. Certainly compared to other senses. And to movement. The ability to generate The ability, excuse me, of the body, like the digits, or to wink one eye, or to tilt your head in a particular way, or move your lips and move your face and do in a very nuanced and detailed way. So much of our brain real estate is devoted to movement for more than a half century, but especially in recent years as we've learned more about the function of the brain in a really that the relationship and the maintenance and perhaps even the improvement of the depends on our body from the body that our So think about that. How would your brain know if your body was moving regularly and how would it know how much it was moving? How would it know which Well, you could say, if the heart rate is increased then the blood and then the brain will know. Ah, but how does your brain know that its increased blood and not to, for instance, Maybe you actually can't move and you're very stressed about that and so the increased blood flow is simply a consequence The fact that osteocalcin and in particular can be released in response to load bearing exercise. So this would be running, hasn't been tested directly, but one would imagine jumping and landing, or weightlifting, or body weight movements That's a signal to release osteocalcin, and we know that signal occurs. That is directly reflective of the fact that the body was moving and moving in particular ways. In fact, you could imagine that big bones like your femur are going or be in a position to then fine movements like And this idea that the body is constantly signaling to the brain about the status of the body and the to update its brain circuitry, is a really attractive with the biology of exercise, osteocalcin, and hippocampal function. I do want to mention that I'm not the first to raise this hypothesis. This hypothesis actually was discussed in a fair amount of detail by John Ratey who's a professor at He wrote a book called, &quot;Spark&quot; which was one of the early books at least from an academic and the relationship between exercise and movement and plasticity. And John, who I have the has described to me experiments, or I should say observations of species of ocean dwelling animals that have, at least for the early part of their life, a very robust and But then these particular animals are in the habit of They find kind of a safe, comfy space and they actually stick to that rock and they don't move anymore I should say the later And it is at the transition and being stationary that those animals actually digest their own brain. The literally metabolize a good portion of their nervous system don't need this anymore. And gobble it up, use it and then sit there like a with a limited amount of brain tissue because they don't need to move anymore. Now, I certainly don't that just moving, just exercise, is sufficient to keep of your brain healthy, While that might be true, it's also important to actually engage in attempts to learn new material. Either physical material, and skills and or new types Languages, mathematics, All sorts of things Nonetheless, it's clear and cognitive ability and the potential to enhance cognitive ability and the ability to learn are intimately connected. And osteocalcin appears in which that brain-body relationship is established and maintained. So given the information about and given the information or after a period of an attempt to learn, you might be asking when is Now unfortunately, that in a lot of varying detail, where every sort of variation on the theme has been carried out. And yet, Wendy Suzuki's lab has done really beautiful experiments where they have people exercise, But at other periods of the day as well. And what they find is two hours after that exercise, there is an enhancement Now I want to be clear, we don't know whether or not that exercise led to big increases in adrenaline. It may be that those forms of exercise were modest enough, or didn't that they merely got a and that the improvements in learning and memory were related to blood flow and we presume increases in osteocalcin. However, you could imagine a couple of different logical protocols based on what we've talked about. Let's say you were going that was going to spike adrenaline a lot. So this would be exercise your system and forces you to kind of push through a burn. Right, so here I'm mainly thinking about cardiovascular exercise. But it could even be yoga, it could be resistance training. If it's going to give you a big spike in adrenaline, it's going then logically speaking you after a learning about learning and memory. However, if you're using the exercise in order to enhance blood flow and to enhance osteocalcin release. In efforts to augment the I think it stands to reason that doing that exercise sometime within the hour to three hours makes a lot of sense. And there I'm basing it on the human data from Wendy Suzuki's lab. I'm basing it on the and from others labs. Again, right now, there hasn't been an evaluation of a lot to arrive at the peer-reviewed However, since what we're talking about is using activities of us probably, perhaps all of us, should be doing regularly anyway. And I do believe most regularly be trying to learn and keep our brain functioning well and acquire new knowledge. Because it's just a And there is evidence your brain young, so to speak. Well then, exercising either before or after a learning about With the emphasis on if the form of exercise for all the reasons we Okay, so we've talked about two major categories of protocols to improve memory that are grounded in quality, And there is yet another third protocol that we'll talk about in a few minutes. But before we do that, I want to briefly touch in fact, two aspects of memory that I get a lot of questions about. The first one is photographic memory. To be clear, there are people out there who have a true photographic memory. They can look at a page of text, they can scan it with their eyes, and they can essentially with very little if any effort. While it might seem that is a very attractive skill to have, I should caution you because it turns out that people with true photographic memory at remembering things that they hear. And often times are not so good at learning physical skills. It's not always the case, So be careful what you wish for. If you do have a photographic memory there are certain professions particularly well to you. And indeed a lot of people have to find a profession in a way that is in concert with that photographic memory. So again, it's a super ability, it's a hyper ability and that is desirable for most people. There's also this category super recognizers. These people are, I should mention, highly employable by government agencies. These are people that have ability to recognize faces and They can look at a photograph of say somebody on a most wanted list and then they can look at video footage of let's say an airport, or a mall, or a city street at fairly low resolution and they can spot the person who's face matches that photograph Even if that video or other footage is of people's profiles or even the tops of their heads and just a portion of their forehead. These people have just to recognize faces and to template match. And again, these people often will take jobs with agencies where this Some of you out there probably are super recognizers and If you've ever had the experience of watching a movie and wow, her mouth looks so Or you look at a character in a movie or a television show and you think, wow, they look almost like the Well, then it's very or at least a mild form of That is not memory per se. That is the hyper functioning of an area of the brain that we The fusiform gyrus is literally a face recognition area, and And it harbors neurons that So as humans and other non-human primates, we care a lot about faces And the identity of faces for all the kinds of reasons Knowing who's friend, who's foe. Who do you know well? Who's famous, who's not famous? Etc. That is not memory, per se. And yet, if you're a super recognizer, or I guess you could call it or not very good at recognizing faces because indeed, there are some people that are kind of face blind. They don't actually recognize people when they walk in the room. I used to work with somebody like this. I'd walk into his office and he'd say, are you Rich or are you Andrew? And I would say, well am I rich, rich. Like, you know, wealth rich? No. And he'd say, no, are you And I'd say, I'm Andrew. We know each other really well. And he'd say, oh I'm sorry. I'm kind of face blind. And it actually tended depending on how much he was working. Ironically, the more rested he was the more face blind he would become. So it wasn't a sleep deprivation thing. That exists, that's out there. There's the full constellation of people's ability to recognize faces. That's not really memory. And yet, visual function is in which we can enhance our memories. So whether or not you're a whether or not you are face blind or anything in between. Next I'm going to tell you about a study which points out the immense for laying down memories. And you can leverage this information and this involves both something that's quite easily done these days with your phone. As well as your ability by literally snapping your eyelids shut. So I just briefly want because it provides a in your attempt to learn The title of this paper the Effects of our Volitional Photo-Taking on Memory for Visual and Auditory I really like this paper because it refers to photographic memory not in the context of photographic memory where people are truly photographic, look at a page and somehow and commit it to memory. But rather the use of camera photographs or the use of mental camera photographs. Literally looking at snapping a, so to speak, of whatever it is that you are looking at and remembering the content. The reason I like this paper and the reason I'm attracted to this issue of mental snapshots is this is something that I've been doing since I was a kid. I don't know why I started doing it, but every once in a while, I I would look at something snap a mental snapshot of it. And I've maintained very clear memories of those visual scenes. Two years ago I was in an Uber and I looked out the window and it was a street scene. I was actually in New York at the time and I decided for reasons to take a mental snapshot Even though nothing interesting And I do recall that a yellow shirt walking, there I can still see that because I took this mental snapshot. This paper addresses whether or not this mental snapshotting thing is real and this is something I think a lot of people will resonate with, whether or not the constant taking of pictures on our phones is either improving or You could imagine an argument for both. A lot of people are taking pictures that they never look at again. And so in a sense, they're outsourcing their visual memory of or some other device and they're not ever accessing the actual image again. They're not looking at it, right? You're not printing out those photos. You're not scanning Sometimes you might do that, but most of the time people don't. Most of the photographs people are taking they're not revisiting again. So the motivation for this study was that previous experiments had shown that if people take photos of a scene or a person, or an object, that at remembering the details of that scene or object, etc. This study challenged that idea and raised the hypothesis that if people are allowed to choose what they take photos of, that taking photos, again, this is with the camera, That taking those photos would actually enhance their memory for those objects, those places, those people, and in fact, details of those objects, And indeed, that's what they found. So in contrast to previous studies where people had been more or less told, take photos of these following objects, or these following people, and then they were given a memory test at some point later. In this study people were given They were given agency in making the decision of what to take photos of. And I'll just summarize the results. We'll provide a link to this study. I should say that some of the stuff that they tested was Some of them were pottery and other forms of ceramics that are of if you go to a big museum in a big city. And if you've ever done that, and you see all the different objects, there are a lot of and a lot of those And so someone will have two handles. Some will have one handle. The position of the handles. How broad or narrow these things are. You know, a lot of this They also took photos of other things. So basically what they found was that if people take pictures of things and they choose which things they are taking pictures of, right. It's up to them, it's volitional. That there's enhanced memory However, it degraded their ability to remember auditory information. So what this means is that when we take a picture of something, or a person, we are stamping down a And that makes sense, it's But we are actually inhibiting our ability to remember the auditory, of that visual scene or Very interesting. And points to the fact can out compete the auditory system, at least in terms of how the hippocampus is encoding this information. The other finding I find within this study is that it didn't matter whether or not they ever So they actually had people take photos, or not take photos of different objects. They had some people keep their photos and they had other And it turns out that whether or not people kept the photos had no bearing on whether or not they were better or worse They were always better as compared to not taking photos of them. What does this mean? It means that if you really or somebody, take a photo Pay attention while you take the photo. But it doesn't really matter if you look at the photo again. Somehow the process of taking that photo, probably looking at it. You know, in a camera typically we'd say through the viewfinder or now on the screen on the back of that camera, or on your phone, that stamps down a visual image in your mind that is more robust at serving a memory then had you just looked at that thing with your own eyes. Very interesting and it raises all sorts of questions for me about whether or not it's because you're or a small portion of the visual scene. That's one logical interpretation, although they didn't test that. I should also say that they found that whether or not that you looked at a photo that you took, or whether or not you deleted it and never looked at it again, didn't just enhance visual memory or the memory from the visual but it always reduced your ability to remember sounds associated So that's interesting. And then last but not least, and perhaps most was the fact that you didn't even need a camera to see this effect. If subjects looked at something and took a mental it enhanced their visual significantly more than had they not taken a mental picture. In fact, it increased almost as much as taking with an actual camera. And the reason I find this so interesting is that a lot of what we And for a lot of people, the ability to learn visual information feels challenging. And we'll look at something and we'll try and create some detailed We'll try and understand the relationships between things in that scene. It does appear based on this study that the mere decision to like, okay I'm going to blink my eyelids and I'm going to take a snapshot can actually stamp down a visual memory much in the same way that a visual memory. Of course, through vastly No discussion of memory would be complete without a discussion of the known as deja vu. This is a sense that we've but we can't quite put our finger on it. Where and when did it happen? Or the sense that we've Or that we are in a or context of some kind. Now, I've talked about at least, I think I have. And the way this works has been defined largely by the wonderful at Massachusetts Institute Susumu collected a Nobel for his beautiful work on immunology. And he's also a highly who studies memory and And I should also mention of Mark Mayford at the Scripps Institute and UC San Diego. Beautiful work on this notion of deja vu. Here's what they discovered. They evaluated the in the hippocampus as Okay, so neuron A fires, then neuron C fires in Again, the firing of neurons like the playing of keys on a piano in a particular sequence leads to a particular song on the piano and leads to a particular memory of an experience within the brain. They then used some to label and capture those neurons such that they could go back later and activate those neurons in either the same sequence or to the one that occurred during the formation of the memory. To make a long story short, and to summarize multiple papers published in incredibly journals like Nature and Science which are extremely stringent, found that whether or not were played in the precise sequence that happened when they encoded the memory or whether or not those neurons were played in a different sequence, or even if those neurons were played, activated that is, all at once with no temporal sequence. All firing in concert all at once, evoked the same behavior. And in some sense, the same memory. So at a neural circuit This is a different pattern of firing of neurons in the brain leading to the same sense of what happened, leading to a particular Whether or not this same when you're walking down the street and suddenly you feel as if, wow, I feel like I've been here before. You meet someone and you feel like, gosh I feel like I know you. I feel like there's some familiarity here that I can't quite put my finger on. We don't know for sure but this is the most mechanistic and logical explanation for what has for many decades, if has been described as deja vu. So for those of you that just know that this of encoding experiences and events within your hippocampus. I'm not aware of any where the presence of deja Some people like the sensation of deja vu. Other people don't. Almost everybody, however, describes it as somewhat eerie. This idea that even though you're in a very different place, even with a very different person, feel as if this has happened before. And just realize this, while it is exquisitely good at encoding new types of perceptions, new experiences, new emotions, new of life events, it is not infinitely large nor does it have an infinite bucket full of different options for those neurons to play. So in a lot of ways it makes perfect sense that sometimes we would feel as if a given experience had I'd like to cover one additional tool that you can use to improve And I should mention, this is and it's one that I'm definitely This is based on a paper from none other than Wendy Suzuki at New York University. We talked about her a little bit earlier. And again, she's going in our next episode. And is just an incredible researcher. I've known Wendy for a number of years and it's only in the or six years that she's really shifted her laboratory toward generating protocols that human beings can use. And she's putting that to great effect, great positive effect I should say. Publishing papers of the sort that I'm about to describe. But also incorporating some of these tools and protocols into the learning curriculum and the lifestyle curriculum Which I think is a terrific initiative. So you don't need to be an NYU student in order to benefit from her work. I'm going to tell you and she'll tell you in the episode that follows this one. The title of this paper about where we're going. The title is Brief Daily Attention, Memory, Mood, in Non-Experienced Meditators. If ever there was an it is the data contained I want to briefly describe the study and then I also want to emphasize that when you meditate I'll talk about that just at the end. This is a study that involves None of whom were experienced There were two general One group did a 13 minute long meditation and this meditation was a They would sit or lie down. They would do somewhat of a body scan, evaluating for instance they felt throughout their body and they would focus on their breathing. Trying to bring their attention and to the state of their body The other group, which we listened to of all things, a podcast. They did not listen to this podcast. They listened to Radio Lab, for an equivalent amount of time. But they were not of body scan or pay Every subject in the study or listened to a equivalent for a period of eight weeks. And the experimenters of things, of variables, as we say. They looked at measures They actually measured They measured, as the title suggests, attention and memory and so forth. And the basic takeaway of this study is that eight weeks but not four weeks of this daily 13 minute a day mediation had a significant effect in improving attention, memory, mood, I find this study to be very interesting and in fact, important because most of us have heard about the positive effects of meditation on things Or on things such as improving sleep. And I want to come back because it turns out to of this study. This particular study I like so much because they used a really broad array of measurements for cognitive function. Things like the Wisconsin I'm not going to go into this. Things like the Stroop Task and they also, as I mentioned, measured cortisol. And many other things, including, And people's ability to of information, in fact And the basic takeaway was, again, that you could get really in learning and memory, mood and attention from just 13 minutes a day of meditation. Now there's an important that I want to emphasize. If you read into the it's mentioned that somehow meditation did not improve but actually compared to the control subjects. And you might think, I mean, meditation is Stress is supposed to inhibit sleep. And therefore why would sleep get worse? Well, what's interesting when most of these subjects tended to do their meditation. Most of the subjects in this study did their meditation late in the day. This is often the case in experiments. I know this because we run experiments with human subjects in my laboratory and people are paid some amount of money in order to participate as compensation for being in the study. But often times the meditation, or in the case of my or other kinds of things are not their top, top priority. And we understand this. But in this study, the I'm reading completed from somewhere between 8:00 and 11:00 P.M. And sometimes even between I think there probably were a lot of college students And their hours often are late shifted. That impaired sleep. And this raises a bigger theme Many times before on this podcast and certainly in the episode on mastering sleep and those episodes we talked of these non-sleep deep for reducing the activity of your sympathetic nervous system. The alertness, so-called stress arm of your autonomic nervous system. The one that makes you feel really alert. NSDR is superb for reducing increasing your level of calmness, and putting you into a so-called more parasympathetic, relaxed state. Meditation does that too, but If you think about meditation, meditation involves and constantly focusing and trying to avoid the distraction of things you're thinking or And coming, so-called, back to your body, back to your breath. So meditation is actually, it has a high attentional load. It requires a lot of that's involved in attention. Which then logically relates to one of the outcomes of this study which is that attention ability is improved in daily meditators. It also points out that increasing the level of attention and the activity of your prefrontal cortex may, and I want to emphasize may, because here I'm speculating inhibit your ability to fall asleep. So while we have that does tend to put us into a calm state but it is a calm, very focused state. In fact, attention and focus are inherent to most forms of meditation. Non-sleep deep rest, such as Yoga Nidra as some of you know it to be. Or NSDR, there's a terrific NSDR script that's available free online So you can go to YouTube, NSDR, Madefor. You can also go do a search for NSDR. There's a number of these again, at no cost. Those NSDR protocols tend to put people into a state of deep relaxation but also very low attention. And we have to assume very low activation of the prefrontal cortex. So the takeaways from this First of all, that daily meditation of 13 minutes can enhance your ability to pay attention and to learn. It can truly enhance memory. However, you need to do that in order to start to and we have to presume those meditation training sessions. In fact, they found four weeks of meditation Now eight weeks might but I think that 13 minutes a day is not actually that big And the results of this study certainly incentivize me to start adopting a, I'm going for 15 minutes a day now. I've been an on and off I've been pretty good about it lately, but I confess I've been of anywhere from three to I'm going to ramp that And I'm doing that specifically to try and access these improvements and our abilities to learn. Also based on the data in this paper, I'm going to do those meditation sessions either early in the day, such or close to it. So I might get my sunshine first. I'm, as you all know, very in the eyes early in the day. As much as one can and Once the sun is out. But certainly doing it early in the day and not past 5:00 P.M. or so in order to make sure that Because I think this, the of meditation inhibiting quality sleep compared to controls is an important one to pay attention to. No pun intended. Today we covered a lot and how to improve your memory. We talked about the and we talked about some of the underlying neural circuitry of memory formation and we talked about the emotional saliency and intensity of what has a profound impact on in response to some sort of experience. Whether or not that experience is reading, or mathematics, or music, or It doesn't matter. The more intense of an in the period immediately the more likely you are to remember whatever it is that And we talked about the neuro chemicals that explain that effect. About epinephrine and And how adjusting the timing of those is so key to enhancing your memory. And we talked about the different ways to enhance those chemicals. Everything ranging from and even just adjusting within your mind in order to stamp down and remember experiences better. We also talked about how in particular, load bearing exercise in order to evoke the release of hormones like osteocalcin which can travel from your bones to your brain and enhance your ability to learn. And we talked about a new Not the traditional type in which people can remember everything they look at very easily. But rather, taking mental snapshots of things that you see. Again, emphasizing that will create a better memory of what you see when you take that mental snapshot, but will actually reduce your memory for the things that you And we discussed the really exciting data looking at how particular can enhance memory but However, if done too late in the day, can actually disrupt those meditation protocols Now I know that many of you are interested in neuro chemicals that can And I intend to cover those in deep detail in a future episode. However, for the sake of please understand that any number of different neuro chemicals can evoke or can increase the amount of adrenaline that's circulating in your brain and body. And it's less important how one accesses that increase in adrenaline. Again, this can be done or through pharmacology. Assuming that those behavioral protocols and pharmacology are safe for you, it really doesn't matter how you evoke the adrenaline release because remember, adrenaline is the final common pathway by which particular experiences, are stamped into memory. Which answers our very at the beginning of the episode. Which is, why do we Right, that was the Why is it that from morning 'til night throughout your entire life you have tons of sensory experience, Why is it that some are remembered and others are not? While I would never want to distill an important question such as that down to a one molecule type of answer, I think we can confidently say based on the vast amount of animal that epinephrine, adrenaline, and some of the other chemicals that it acts with in concert, is in fact, the way that we remember particular events and not all events. If you're learning from and please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific zero In addition, please on Spotify and on Apple. And now on both Spotify and Apple you can leave us up to a five star review. Please also leave us comments and feedback in the comment section You can also suggest future guests that you'd like us to cover. We do read all those comments. Please also check out at the beginning of today's podcast. That's a terrific, perhaps the best way to support this podcast. We also have a Patreon. It's patreon.com/andrewhuberman. And there you can support this podcast at any level that you like. During today's episode and of the Huberman Lab Podcast, While supplements aren't many people derive For things like enhancing sleep and focus and indeed, for learning and memory. For that reason the Huberman Lab Podcast is now partnered with The reason we've partnered with Momentous is several fold. First of all, we wanted where people could go to high quality versions of the supplements that we were discussing on this podcast. This is a critical issue. A lot of supplement companies out there sell excellent supplements but they combine different ingredients into different formulations which make it very hard to figure out exactly what works for you and to arrive at the of the various compounds Which we think is extremely important and that's certainly and rigorous way to approach any kind of supplementation regime. So Momentous has made these on the basis of what we suggested to them and I'm happy to say, they So whether or not you're they'll ship to you. If you'd like to see the on the Huberman Lab Podcast, you can go to LiveMomentous.com/Huberman. They've started to that we've talked about on the podcast and in the upcoming many more supplements such most, if not all of the compounds that are discussed on this podcast will be there, again, extremely high quality formulations that you can use to arrive at the best supplement protocols for you. We also include behavioral protocols that can combined with in order to deliver the maximum effect. Once again, that's And if you're not already and Instagram, it's HubermanLab on both Twitter and Instagram. There I describe science Some of which overlap with the content of the Huberman Lab Podcast, but much of which is distinct from the content of the We also have a newsletter called the Huberman Lab Neural Network. That newsletter provides summary protocols and information from our It does not cost anything to sign up. You can go to HubermanLab.com, and click on newsletter. You just provide your email we do not share your We have a very clear privacy policy that you can read there. And that newsletter comes You can also see some sample newsletters. Things like the toolkit for sleep, or for neural plasticity and for various other topics covered on Once again, thank you for joining me today to discuss the neurobiology and how to improve your memory using science based tools. And last, but certainly not least, thank you for your interest in science. [light music]