This episode is sponsored by Brilliant. Like most people, I had my first exposure And like most people, this was my response. "Ok.' Fast forward a few years into my physics degree, mechanics and quantum physics. Strange sentences start popping up like "the states are complex". It was here that I started to question what meant. What were they? Did part of the wave not exist? Did quantum particles need therapy? It's now been 3 years since I finished my by a sudden urge to get to the bottom of these So let's start with the name. Imaginary. In my opinion, it's the worst name that the history of anything ever. It makes things so confusing because...they're Or as real, depending on how you look at things. You can't point to anything in the real a 2". You can point to 7 puppies, or the symbols numbers themselves aren't tangible physical Now does that mean they're not real? Well, not necessarily, it depends what school That's right, there are whole schools of If you're a non-platonist, you think that to help us keep track of situations. If you're a platonist, you think that numbers not invented. Neither of these views is necessarily the about what numbers are. Now the problem I have is that the name "imaginary different or less natural than the other numbers, To demonstrate this, let's start with something The negative numbers. We're pretty used to the idea of them now, What does -50 physically represent? How can you have less than nothing? This little minus sign might seem pretty innocent, shift in mentality that took years to sink The old English mathematician Francis Maseres of the equations." So why were they introduced then? Well, they're very useful. A negative sign can represent things like Instead of always having to say "I owe $50", obvious what it means. It's easy to keep track of and and simple We use them so much today that we don't The same story is true for the irrationals. When the ancient Greeks realised that the sides of length 1 couldn't be expressed they were so upset they drowned the discoverer But square roots of things are so useful. Any Pythagorean fan will tell you that. It would be very limiting in today's world And it's exactly the same thing with imaginary answer questions that would before be impossible square root of a negative number?" This idea might seem outrageous You want the square root of less than nothing? but we perform operations on negative numbers To represent a doubling in debt, you multiply you owe. We just multiplied a quantity less than nothing. It's not too much of a stretch of the imagination root of less than nothing. So just like with all the other numbers, humans Now let's get onto what this imaginary number, First, let's think about what squaring something Take the following equation: Now the left hand side of this equation can X times x times 1. I'm including the 1 here for a reason so So what does this literally mean? Well the most basic way to look at it is "what it into 25?" If you've done any basic high school math, 5 and -5. 5 times 1 takes you to 5, and then times 5 -5 times 1 takes you to -5, and then times you to 25. Pretty straight forward. But now what about this? What number when I multiply twice turns 1 Well it's not 1, because we'd just end the sign flips twice and we end up with 1. So here's where the novel idea comes in you in school. What if we do a rotation? Who says we have to stick to the number line? What if we enter the netherworld above or What if instead of only flipping, we can rotate. If we do two 90 degree rotations, we can turn That's what the number i means. A 90 degree rotation about the real number Hence, i done twice, or squared = -1. We're used to thinking of numbers on a line, they actually exist on a two dimensional plane. Yeah, numbers are 2 dimensional. Who would've thought? They're made up of the real axis and the to the other by rotating. So what exactly are imaginary numbers good Well, what are negative numbers good for? One thing is that they're very good at keeping like a light switch. If we keep multiplying by a negative number, 1, -1, 1, -1, 1, -1. So negative numbers can keep track of any What about when we multiply by the imaginary We get 1, i, -1, -i, 1, i, -1, -i. There's a pretty obvious pattern here too. Imaginary numbers are good for keeping track We're just not as familiar with these types higher physics like quantum systems and wave Now if you've heard of imaginary numbers This is just a number that has real and imaginary I once had a student who was having a hard they're called complex numbers", but complex complicated. It's the same kind of complex as in a housing different parts. Numbers don't need to be all real or all complex numbers. To be honest, this knowledge probably won't But hopefully by peeking at the intuition that I never did. I'm a huge fan of intuition over memorization, is brilliant.org. Brilliant is an interactive learning website understanding rather than memorizing trivial There are tonnes of courses to choose from The latest thing I've become obsessed with way to stay sharp, and nothing gives you deeper skills to the test. See if you can solve what happens if you cut in this grid contain the blue square. Signing up is free, but for a 20% discount first 200 to sign up using this link. Brilliant.org/upandatom. You can find it below in the description. Did you find this video helpful? What other concepts do you not really "get" Let me know in the comments and maybe we can Until next time, bye!