Chris Anderson: Hello. It's the first of a series in response to the current I don't know about you; I've become quite concerned about and in the world. No one's listening to each other. Right? They aren't. I mean, it feels like we need one that's based on -- I don't know, on a broader context. That's at least what we're going to try starting today. And we couldn't have anyone with us who I'd be more excited to kick this off. This is a mind right here that thinks on the planet, I would hasten to say. I'm serious. (Yuval Noah Harari laughs) I'm serious. He synthesizes history in a way that kind of takes So, some of you will know Has anyone here read &quot;Sapiens&quot;? (Applause) I mean, I could not put it down. The way that he tells the story of mankind through big ideas that really make you it's kind of amazing. And here's the follow-up, which I think is being published YNH: Yeah, next week. CA: &quot;Homo Deus.&quot; Now, this is the history I've had a chance to read it. It's extremely dramatic, and I daresay, for some people, It's a must-read. And honestly, we couldn't have make sense of what on Earth So a warm welcome, please, (Applause) It's great to be joined by our friends Hello, Facebook. And all of you, as I start come up with your own questions, and not necessarily about but about the broader understanding You ready? OK, we're going to go. So here we are, Yuval: New York City, 2017, and shock waves rippling around the world. What on Earth is happening? YNH: I think the basic thing that happened is that we have lost our story. Humans think in stories, and we try to make sense of the world And for the last few decades, we had a very simple about what's happening in the world. And the story said that, that the economy is being globalized, politics is being liberalized, and the combination of the two and we just need to keep on and liberalizing the political system, and everything will be wonderful. And 2016 is the moment when a very large segment, stopped believing in this story. For good or bad reasons -- People stopped believing in the story, and when you don't have a story, CA: Part of you believes that that story It worked. YNH: To some extent, yes. According to some measurements, we are now in the best time ever for humankind. Today, for the first time in history, more people die from eating too much which is an amazing achievement. (Laughter) Also for the first time in history, more people die from old age and violence is also down. For the first time in history, more people commit suicide and war put together. Statistically, you are At least, of all the people in the world, you are most likely (Laughter) which is, again, (Laughter) compared to the level of violence CA: But this process ended up with a large group of people and they've reacted. And so we have this bombshell that's sort of ripping I mean, what do you make It feels like the old way the left-right divide, How should we think of this? YNH: Yeah, the old 20th-century is now largely irrelevant, and the real divide today global or local. And you see it again all over the world that this is now the main struggle. We probably need completely and completely new ways In essence, what you can say we have a global economy and this doesn't work together. This makes the political because it has no control And you have basically two solutions either de-globalize the economy or globalize the political system. CA: So some, I guess view Trump and his government just awful in every way. Do you see any underlying narrative that is at least worth understanding? How would you articulate that philosophy? Is it just the philosophy of nationalism? YNH: I think the underlying is that the political system -- It doesn't empower It doesn't care so much and I think this diagnosis With regard to the answers, I think what we are seeing if something doesn't work, let's go back. And you see it all over the world, that people, almost nobody has any future-oriented vision Almost everywhere, &quot;Let's make America great again,&quot; like it was great -- I don't know -- let's go back there. And you go to Russia Putin's vision for the future is basically, ah, let's go back And in Israel, where I come from, the hottest political vision &quot;Let's build the temple again.&quot; So let's go back 2,000 years backwards. So people are thinking and sometimes in the past, it's like and you say OK, let's go back and start again. I don't think this can work, but a lot of people, CA: But why couldn't it work? &quot;America First&quot; is a very Patriotism is, in many ways, It's played a role among large numbers of people. Why couldn't you have a world all of which put themselves first? YNH: For many centuries, patriotism worked quite well. Of course, it led to wars an so forth, but we shouldn't focus There are also many, and the ability to have care about each other, sympathize with one another, and come together for collective action. If you go back to the first nations, so, thousands of years ago, the people who lived along it was many, many different tribes and they all depended on the river but all of them also suffered and periodical droughts. And no tribe could really do because each of them controlled And then in a long the tribes coalesced together which controlled the entire Yellow River and had the ability to bring to build dams and canals and prevent the worst floods and droughts and raise the level And this worked in many places But in the 21st century, technology is changing all that We are now living -- all people are living alongside the same cyber river, and no single nation can regulate We are all living together which is threatened by our own actions. And if you don't have some kind nationalism is just not on the right level whether it's climate change CA: So it was a beautiful idea in a world where most of the action, took place on national scale, but your argument is that the issues no longer take place on a national scale YNH: Exactly. All the major problems are global in essence, and they cannot be solved unless through some kind It's not just climate change, which is, like, the most obvious I think more in terms If you think about, for example, over the next 20, 30 years pushing hundreds of millions of people this is a problem on a global level. It will disrupt the economy And similarly, if you think and people being afraid of conducting, I don't know, genetic engineering it won't help if just outlaws all genetic experiments in humans, but China or North Korea So the US cannot solve it by itself, and very quickly, the pressure on the US because we are talking about If somebody else is doing it, The only way to have regulations, on things like genetic engineering, is to have global regulations. If you just have national regulations, CA: So this is really interesting. It seems to me that this may be one key to provoking at least between the different sides here, because I think everyone can agree of a lot of the anger is because of the legitimate Work is gone, a traditional and it's no wonder And in general, they have blamed for doing this to them and that seems like But what I hear you saying What is the real cause of job loss, To the extent that it's about globalism, then the right response, and keep people out But you're saying, I think, that actually the bigger cause of job loss It's going to originate and we have no chance of solving that unless we operate as a connected world. YNH: Yeah, I think that, I don't know about the present, it's not the Mexicans or Chinese from the people in Pennsylvania, it's the robots and algorithms. So unless you plan to build a big wall (Laughter) the wall on the border with Mexico And I was struck when I watched I was struck that certainly Trump by saying the robots will take your jobs. Now even if it's not true, It could have been an extremely (Laughter) and galvanizing people: &quot;The robots will take your jobs!&quot; And nobody used that line. And it made me afraid, because it meant in universities and laboratories, and there, there is already but in the mainstream political system people are just unaware that there could be an immense not in 200 years, and we have to do something about it now, partly because most of what we teach is going to be completely irrelevant So it's not something we'll need We need to think today CA: Yeah, no, absolutely. You've often written about where humankind has ... Decisions have been made, and suddenly the world has changed, possibly in a way So one of the examples is just the whole agricultural revolution, which, for an actual person they just picked up a 12-hour instead of six hours in the jungle (Laughter) So are we at another possible where we kind of sleepwalk into a future YNH: Yes, very much so. During the agricultural revolution, what happened is that immense empowered the human collective, but when you look at actual the life of a tiny elite and the lives of the majority of people And this can happen again No doubt the new technologies But we may end up again with a tiny elite reaping and the masses of the population than they were before, certainly much worse than this tiny elite. CA: And those elites They might be cyborgs or -- YNH: Yeah, they could be They could be cyborgs. They could be completely They could even be What we see now in the world from humans to algorithms. More and more decisions -- about economic matters, are actually being taken by algorithms. If you ask the bank for a loan, chances are your fate is decided And the general impression The world is so complicated, things are changing so fast, that this thing that evolved tens of thousands of years ago -- to cope with a particular environment, a particular volume it just can't handle the realities and the only thing is big-data algorithms. So no wonder more and more authority CA: So we're in New York City with Yuval Harari, and there's a Facebook Live We're excited to have you with us. We'll start coming and questions of people in the room in just a few minutes, so have those coming. Yuval, if you're going that we need to get past nationalism danger, in a way, presented by so much of what's happening we've got to have Trouble is, it's hard to get people AI really is an imminent The things that people, care about much more immediately, perhaps, is climate change, perhaps other issues like refugees, Would you argue that where that somehow those issues You've talked about climate change, but Trump has said So in a way, your most powerful argument, you can't actually use to make this case. YNH: Yeah, I think with climate change, at first sight, it's quite surprising that there is a very close correlation between nationalism and climate change. I mean, almost always, the people And at first sight, you think: Why? What's the connection? Why don't you have socialists But then, when you think because nationalism has no solution If you want to be a nationalist you have to deny the problem. If you accept the reality of the problem, there is still room in the world there is still room in the world and obligations towards your own people, I don't think anybody is really But in order to confront climate change, we need additional loyalties to a level beyond the nation. And that should not be impossible, because people can have You can be loyal to your family and to your community and to your nation, so why can't you also be loyal Of course, there are occasions what to put first, but, you know, life is difficult. Handle it. (Laughter) CA: OK, so I would love to get We've got a microphone here. Speak into it, and Facebook, Howard Morgan: One of the things that has in this country and other countries is the income distribution inequality, the dramatic change from what it was 50 years ago, and around the world. Is there anything we can do Because that gets at a lot YNH: So far I haven't heard a very again, partly because most ideas and the problem is global. I mean, one idea that we hear is universal basic income. But this is a problem. I mean, I think it's a good start, but it's a problematic idea because and it's not clear what &quot;basic&quot; is. Most people when they speak they actually mean national basic income. But the problem is global. Let's say that you have AI and 3D printers in Bangladesh, from all the people who make So what's going to happen? The US government will levy taxes and use that to pay basic income If you believe that, that Santa Claus will come So unless we have really universal the deep problems And also it's not clear what basic is, because what are basic human needs? A thousand years ago, But today, people will say it should be part of the package. But how much? Six years? Similarly, with health care, let's say that in 20, 30, 40 years, you'll have expensive treatments to 120, I don't know. Will this be part of the basket It's a very difficult problem, because in a world where people the only thing they are going to get So what's part of it is a very, CA: There's a bunch of questions who pays. There's a question here &quot;How does nationalism in the US now compare to that between in the last century?&quot; YNH: Well the good news, with regard we are in a much better position A century ago, 1917, Europeans were killing In 2016, with Brexit, a single person lost their life, Just a single person. I mean, if Brexit was about this is the most peaceful And let's say that Scotland after Brexit. So in the 18th century, if Scotland wanted -- and the Scots to break out of the control of London, the reaction of the government to burn down Edinburgh My guess is that if, in 2018, the London government to burn down Edinburgh. Very few people are now willing for Scottish or for British independence. So for all the talk and going back to the 1930s, to the 19th century, in the West at least, the power of national sentiments than it was a century ago. CA: Although some people now, about whether that might be shifting, that there could actually be depending on how things turn out. Should we be worried about that, or do you really think YNH: No, we should be worried. We should be aware of two things. First of all, don't be hysterical. We are not back But on the other hand, We reached from 1917 to 2017, not by some divine miracle, but simply by human decisions, and if we now start making we could be back in a few years. One of the things I know as a historian is that you should never (Laughter) It's one of the most powerful human stupidity and human violence. Humans do such crazy things but again, at the same time, another very powerful force We have both. CA: We have with us here who I think has a question. Jonathan Haidt: Thanks, Yuval. So you seem to be a fan but when you look at the map of the world which rates the level of corruption it's a vast sea of red with little bits for those with good institutions. So if we were to have what makes you think it would end up rather than more like Russia or Honduras, and aren't there alternatives, such as we did with CFCs? There are ways to solve global problems What would world government and why do you think it would work? YNH: Well, I don't know Nobody still has a model for that. The main reason we need it is because many of these issues When you have both sides can benefit then this is something you can work out. Without some kind of global government, national governments each But when you have a lose-lose situation it's much more difficult without some overarching Now, how to get there I don't know. And certainly there is no obvious reason to think that it would look like Denmark, or that it would be a democracy. Most likely it wouldn't. We don't have workable democratic models for a global government. So maybe it would look more than like modern Denmark. But still, given the dangers I think the imperative of having to force through difficult decisions is more important CA: There's a question from Facebook here, and then we'll get the mic to Andrew. So, Kat Hebron on Facebook, calling in from Vail: &quot;How would developed nations manage YNH: I don't know. CA: That's your answer, Kat. (Laughter) YNH: And I don't think They'll just deny the problem, maybe. CA: But immigration, generally, that's very hard to solve One nation can shut its doors, but maybe that stores up YNH: Yes, I mean -- especially because it's so much easier to migrate today than it was in the Middle Ages CA: Yuval, there's a belief that political concerns that actually, political leaders in the world, that the real determination of humanity by invention, by companies, by many things and it's actually very hard so we're actually worrying YNH: Well, first, it should be emphasized that it's true that political leaders' but their ability to do harm is unlimited. There is a basic imbalance here. You can still press the button You have that kind of ability. But if you want, for example, that's very, very difficult. But to start a war, you can still do so very easily. So there is a built-in imbalance which is very frustrating, where you cannot do a lot of good And this makes the political system CA: So as you look at and putting your historian's hat on, do you look back in history at moments and an individual leader really took YNH: There are quite a few examples, but I should emphasize, I mean, somebody put him there, and somebody allowed him So it's never really just the fault There are a lot of people CA: Can we have the microphone Andrew Solomon: You've talked a lot but increasingly, it seems to me, the world situation We look at people within the United States who have been recruited by ISIS. We look at these other groups which go outside of national bounds but still represent How are they to be integrated and how is a diverse set of identities under either national YNH: Well, the problem is a problem from nationalism as well. Nationalism believes and exclusive or at least believe in an exclusive loyalty And therefore, nationalism has had with people wanting to divide between various groups. So it's not just a problem, say, And I think, again, history shows that you shouldn't necessarily If you think that there is just &quot;I am just X, that's it, I can't be that's the start of the problem. You have religions, you have nations that sometimes demand exclusive loyalty, but it's not the only option. There are many religions and many nations that enable you to have CA: But is one explanation that a group of people have got the liberal elites, obsessing over many, many different &quot;But what about my identity? And by the way, I thought And that that's actually YNH: Yeah. Identity is always problematic, because identity is always based that sooner or later collide with reality. Almost all identities, I mean, beyond the level of a few dozen people, are based on a fictional story. They are not the truth. They are not the reality. It's just a story that people invent and start believing. And therefore all identities They are not a biological reality. Sometimes nationalists, for example, think that the nation It's made of the combination creates the nation. But this is just a fictional story. CA: Soil and blood (Laughter) YNH: It does, and also when you think too much If you look from a biological perspective, obviously none of the nations existed 5,000 years ago. Homo sapiens is a social animal, But for millions of years, Homo sapiens and our hominid ancestors of a few dozen individuals. Everybody knew everybody else. Whereas modern nations in the sense that I don't even know I come from a relatively and of eight million Israelis, I never met most of them. I will never meet most of them. They basically exist here. CA: But in terms of this identity, this group who feel left out I mean, in &quot;Homo Deus,&quot; you actually speak of this group that so many people by technology in some way a really large -- I think you call it a class where traditionally, as viewed by the economy, YNH: Yes. CA: How likely a possibility is that? Is that something And can we address it in any way? YNH: We should think about it I mean, nobody really knows in 2040, 2050. There is a chance but it's not certain. And even if new jobs do appear, it won't necessarily be easy for a 50-year old unemployed truck driver made unemployed by self-driving vehicles, it won't be easy to reinvent himself or herself Previously, if you look at the trajectory when machines replaced humans the solution usually came in new lines of business. So you didn't need any more so people moved to working and when this was taken away people moved to low-skill service jobs. Now, when people say there will that humans can do better than AI, that humans can do better than robots, they usually think about high-skill jobs, like software engineers Now, I don't see how reinvents herself or himself at 50 and certainly I don't see how the millions of unemployed will be able to do that. I mean, if they are going to do it, we need to start teaching how to be software designers, and we are not doing it. So what will they do in 20 years? CA: So it feels like you're really that's really been bugging me It's almost a hard question but if any mind has some wisdom so I'm going to ask you: What are humans for? YNH: As far as we know, for nothing. (Laughter) I mean, there is no great cosmic drama, that we have a role to play in. And we just need to discover and then play it to the best This has been the story of all religions but as a scientist, the best I can say There is no universal drama So -- CA: I'm going to push back on you just from your own book, because in &quot;Homo Deus,&quot; you give really one of the most coherent about sentience, about consciousness, and that unique sort of human skill. You point out that it's different the intelligence and that there's actually a lot How can you be sure there's no purpose when we don't even understand I mean, in your own thinking, that what humans are for to be the centers of joy and love And maybe we can build machines even if they're not going to become Is that crazy? I kind of found myself hoping that, YNH: Well, I certainly think that the most is the question We are getting better and better and intelligence, but we are not getting much better in understanding the mind People often confuse intelligence especially in places like Silicon Valley, which is understandable, I mean, intelligence basically Consciousness is the ability to feel joy and sadness In Homo sapiens and all other mammals in all mammals and birds intelligence and consciousness We often solve problems by feeling things. So we tend to confuse them. But they are different things. What's happening today is that we are creating but not artificial consciousness. There has been an amazing development over the last 50 years, and exactly zero development and there is no indication that computers anytime soon. So first of all, if there is it's not unique to Homo sapiens. Cows are conscious, pigs are conscious, chimpanzees are conscious, so if we go that way, first of all, and remember very clearly we are not and when it comes to sentience -- when it comes to intelligence, we are the most intelligent But when it comes to sentience, to say that humans are more or more sentient than baboons I see no evidence for that. So first step is, you go And then the second question I would reverse it and I would say that I don't think I think we don't need The really important thing What characterizes sentient beings in contrast to robots, to stones, to whatever, is that sentient beings and what they should focus on is not finding their place They should focus on understanding what causes it and how CA: I know this is a big issue for you, We're going to have a blizzard and maybe from Facebook as well, and maybe some comments as well. So let's go quick. There's one right here. Keep your hands held up and we'll get it back to you. Question: In your work, you talk a lot that we accept as truth, and we live our lives by it. As an individual, knowing that, how does it impact the stories and do you confuse them YNH: I try not to. I mean, for me, maybe the most both as a scientist and as a person, is how to tell the difference because reality is there. I'm not saying that everything is fiction. It's just very difficult for human beings between fiction and reality, and it has become more and more difficult because the fictions nations and gods and money they now control the world. So just to even think, &quot;Oh, this is just all fictional entities is very difficult. But reality is there. For me the best ... There are several tests to tell the difference The simplest one, the best one is the test of suffering. If it can suffer, it's real. If it can't suffer, it's not real. A nation cannot suffer. That's very, very clear. Even if a nation loses a war, we say, &quot;Germany suffered a defeat it's a metaphor. Germany cannot suffer. Germany has no consciousness. Germans can suffer, yes, Similarly, when a bank goes bust, the bank cannot suffer. When the dollar loses its value, People can suffer. Animals can suffer. This is real. So I would start, if you I would go through the door of suffering. If you can really understand this will give you also the key to understand what reality is. CA: There's a Facebook question from someone around the world YNH: Oh, it's Hebrew. (Laughter) Can you read the name? YNH: Or Lauterbach Goren. CA: Well, thank you for writing in. The question is: &quot;Is the post-truth era or just another climax or moment YNH: Personally, I don't connect My basic reaction as a historian is: If this is the era of post-truth, CA: Right. (Laughter) YNH: Was it the 1980s, the 1950s, I mean, we have always lived CA: But I'd push back on that, because I think what people is that there was a world where there were traditions, It was incorporated into the charter that the truth mattered. So if you believe in a reality, then what you write is information. There was a belief that that information and if you wrote a headline, to reflect something And people didn't always get it right. But I think the concern now is you've got a technological system that, for a while at least, with no attention paid to whether only to whether it connected and that that was arguably toxic. That's a reasonable concern, isn't it? YNH: Yeah, it is. I mean, and it's now easier to disseminate It goes both ways. It's also much easier, though, to spread But I don't think there about this disseminating There is nothing that -- I don't know -- about all this idea of fake He famously said that if you repeat people will think it's the truth, and the bigger the lie, the better, because people won't even think I think that fake news Just think of the Bible. (Laughter) CA: But there is a concern that the fake news is associated and when you see an uprise in fake news that is a canary in the coal mine YNH: Yeah. I mean, the intentional use But I'm not saying that it's not bad, CA: There's a lot of interest about global governance Question here from Phil Dennis: &quot;How do we get people, governments, Is that -- is that -- I can't read the full question. But is that a necessity? Is it going to take war to get there? Sorry Phil -- I mangled your question, YNH: One option is that only a catastrophe and open the path to a real system and they say that we can't do it but we need to start so that when the disaster strikes, we can react quickly. But people will just not have before the disaster strikes. Another thing that I would emphasize is that anybody who is really should always make it very, very clear that it doesn't replace or abolish that it should come both as -- It should be part of a single package. CA: I want to hear more on this, because the very words &quot;global governance&quot; are almost the epitome of evil on the alt-right right now. It just seems scary, remote, distant, and so globalists, And many view the election to anyone who believes in that. So how do we change the narrative so that it doesn't seem Build more on this idea with local identity, local communities. YNH: Well, I think again we should start really with the biological realities of Homo sapiens. And biology tells us two things which are very relevant to this issue: first of all, that we are on the ecological system around us, and that today we are talking You cannot escape that. And at the same time, biology tells us that we are social animals, but that we are social It's just a simple fact of humanity that we cannot have intimate familiarity with more than about 150 individuals. The size of the natural group, the natural community of Homo sapiens, is not more than 150 individuals, and everything beyond that is really and large-scale institutions, and I think that we can find a way, again, based on a biological to weave the two together and to understand that today we need both the global level And I would go even further than that and say that it starts The feelings that people today have and not finding their place in the world, I would think that the chief problem The chief problem is that over people have been becoming disembodied, have been distancing themselves As a hunter-gatherer or even as a peasant, to survive, you need to be with your body and with your senses, every moment. If you go to the forest and you don't pay attention to what you smell, to what you taste, you're dead. So you must be very connected. In the last hundred years, to be in touch with their body to hear, to smell, to feel. More and more attention goes to screens, to what is happening elsewhere, some other time. This, I think, is the deep reason for the feelings of alienation and therefore part of the solution is not to bring back but also reconnect with our own bodies, and if you are back you will feel much more at home CA: Well, depending on how things go, We're going to have and one more on Facebook. Ama Adi-Dako: Hello. I'm from Ghana, I'm wondering how do you present to countries that have been by the effects of globalization, and also, if we're talking about it sounds to me like it will definitely of what the &quot;global&quot; So how do we present and justify versus wholly nationalist to people in countries like Ghana and other countries like that? YNH: I would start by saying and that we should realize that. Many of the countries that suffered most from the last 200 years of globalization and imperialism and industrialization are exactly the countries from the next wave. And we should be very, If we don't have a global governance, and if we suffer from climate change, from technological disruptions, the worst suffering will not be in the US. The worst suffering will be in Ghana, will be in Bangladesh, So I think those countries to do something about whether it's ecological Again, if you think about so if AI and 3D printers and robots from billions of people, I worry far less about the Swedes than about the people in Ghana And therefore, and the results of a calamity will not be shared equally as usual, the rich from the worst consequences in a way that the poor CA: And here's a great question &quot;At the end of 'Sapiens,'&quot; you said we should be asking the question, 'What do we want to want?' Well, what do you think YNH: I think we should want to understand reality. Mostly what we want is to change reality, to fit it to our own desires, and I think we should first If you look at the long-term what you see is that we humans have been gaining and trying to shape it And we've gained control of the rivers, of the forests, and reshaped them completely, causing an ecological destruction without making ourselves satisfied. So the next step and we say OK, getting control did not really make us satisfied. Let's now try to gain control This is the really big project of science and technology to try and gain control to learn how to engineer and produce These are likely to be the main When people think about the future, &quot;Oh, I want to gain control And I think that's very dangerous. If we've learned anything it's that yes, we gain but because we didn't really of the ecological system, we are now facing an ecological meltdown. And if we now try to reengineer without really understanding it, especially without understanding we might cause a kind of internal and we'll face a kind of mental CA: Putting all the pieces the current politics, concerns like the one I mean, it seems like you yourself when you think about the future. You're pretty worried about it. Is that right? And if there was one cause for hope, YNH: I focus on the most partly because this is like as a historian or social critic. I mean, the industry focuses mainly so it's the job of historians to highlight the more dangerous potential I don't think any of that is inevitable. Technology is never deterministic. You can use the same technology to create very different If you look at the 20th century, so, the technologies the trains and electricity and all that could be used to create or a fascist regime The trains did not tell you Similarly, now, artificial intelligence they don't predetermine a single outcome. Humanity can rise up to the challenge, and the best example we have of humanity rising up is nuclear weapons. In the late 1940s, '50s, many people were convinced that sooner or later the Cold War destroying human civilization. And this did not happen. In fact, nuclear weapons prompted to change the way that they manage to reduce violence. And many countries basically took out war from their political toolkit. They no longer tried to pursue Not all countries have done so, And this is maybe why international violence and today, as I said, than are killed in war. So this, I think, gives us a good example that even the most frightening technology, humans can rise up to the challenge and actually some good can come out of it. The problem is, we have very little If we don't get it right, we might not have CA: That's a very powerful note, on which I think we should draw Before I wrap up, I just want to say and to the global TED community help us with these dialogues. If you believe, like we do, that we need to find now more than ever, help us do it. Reach out to other people, try and have conversations understand them, pull the pieces together, and help us figure out how to take so we can make a real contribution to what's happening I think everyone feels more alive, more concerned, more engaged with the politics of the moment. The stakes do seem quite high, so help us respond to it Yuval Harari, thank you. (Applause)