I'm French and today I want to tell you 13 huge The first one is feeling like you have to visit the with a lot of things to visit. And if you enjoy to tell you to not go there. But what I don't want the landmarks. Remember, you're coming to Paris So instead of trying to cram the top 10 things to you actually like. So on my side for example, I And I can tell you that's what I'm looking for things you can do in Paris: you can work out in can do that, there's so much good shopping here art classes and anything artsy. And of course who visited and wanted to do really niche things like in Paris, or visiting the house of Victor Hugo who mindset, and you should absolutely look for cool trip, since obviously this won't be in all the in Paris is falling for tourist traps. If you're like let's say New York City, you probably know accepting anything that's free from strangers. no one will ever randomly give you a free gift if sign any random people's petitions, or accept is literally what our parents warned us about can just research the most common travel scams on I see a lot of people really overdoing it online. And pick pockets and even how to like get tactical tell you that you really don't need that. Stay of the unknown ruin your trip to Paris. People if you stay in touristy areas, you should be a tiny bit more cautious than if you stay in local areas . For example, I live in Batignolles, and I really feel super of community here. It feels like a little village, you'll often see the same people and people are very trusting. Like this week my Apple pay was just like &quot;oh yeah you'll pay me tomorrow&quot;. That's ride away to Montmartre, I usually like to keep my of my surroundings, that's all. Paris is really safe most visited cities in the world, France's economy live in Paris don't work in the tourism industry. one city with all the attractions that you know lives in almost a separate neighborhood from this on the daily, because I just do normal stuff Paris, and there's never lines of tourists there. the local areas, on the contrary. Actually I feel want to tick the boxes of the top things to do. And they just go to the most famous places they've seen online, they take a picture and then they just leave. And I feel this consumeristic approach to travel can be a bit off-putting. Especially if trip than a few nice pictures. And I know a lot of touristy side of the city, didn't have the best another chance. So if you're on this channel, more curious about cultures. And I think you So obviously it takes a bit more work to have a rewarding. And mistake number five is not being areas, you should be a bit more spontaneous with you should be more adventurous when eating French and snails. And to be honest, no one really eats that favorite adventurous French Foods: the first raw egg. And that can be pretty shocking for most are a bit higher here in France, so it's perfectly try, and this one is one of my favorites, is Roquefort. stinky cheese. But what about this cheese? And mold on the cheese. And it's actually delicious and want to try moldy cheese because a random French But you should just try random dishes that look good at a restaurant, because there's a lot of different delicious dishes in French cuisine thing you should be less adventurous on, is your a long flight, arriving to Paris can be super taxi and hoping for the best, you should take Here are my tips for a smooth arrival that I've applied make sure I have a data plan on my phone when I easier for me, because I know I will be tired and where I'm staying. And also I can never count on online from the moment I arrive at my destination of today's video, and they provide instant and 200 countries and regions around the world. and it has been my travel hack since I found lot of people. Airalo is a 100% digital solution, which the airport. Instead you can just install your eSIM have a lot of different options for France too. you get your eSIM with them by downloading the use my code LUCILE3 for $3 off your next eSIM. you should use ride-share apps like Uber or all, they're overall cheaper than taxis. But also you're traveling somewhere new, because it's hard how much they're going to charge you. And if you easy. However in Paris you should walk around as walkable, and you should also use public transportation. is when you're coming from the airport me to mistake number eight, which is overpacking. should be packing light, since there's a lot of the metro, in Paris we have tiny cobblestone often no elevators in apartment buildings. Don't annoying for you. And this mistake is especially is also a common mistake people make of going to London one day, then Paris the next, and then already been through three different countries, different currencies, and very different cultures. have to adapt to the culture, and the customs and tiny, but don't underestimate how different things in London, and it's so different from Paris. What I other country to visit and that you really take time a bit better. In any case if you want to visit for yourself and get Airalo's eurolink eSIM which or Switzerland, which are also accessible by train much anywhere you go from Paris. And I feel it's use the Wi-Fi, to plan the next part of your trip a recommendation for you, and it's that instead of stay in France, and experience the French culture. you compare it to the US, but there's so many you come from. So if you want something that's culture, you should check out Marseille and you should In Toulouse for example, we're a bit closer to Spain, has Spanish origins like me. So it's pretty always found super fascinating culturally and from the south. It's Alsace, it's literally at the And it's just a really beautiful region with a it out too. In any case wherever you go in France need to say hello or Bonjour at the start of every probably get a negative reaction from people. So of French, at least to say hello and thank you. In a lot of us speak English, and you can always use this advice in every single video but it is that is really important when visiting Paris is to it from this video, but Paris is one of the most to come when no one else is here. So for example good no one will be there. You also have spring whatever you do, avoid coming in summer. In any case, you think you need. If you're rushed you will most this video, because you won't actually have time a week in Paris if you can, but I know it can be if you live in the US. So you should watch this