Star media Babich-design THE GREAT PEOPLE'S HOLY WAR THE GREAT PATRIOTIC WAR A German motorcyclist encountered KIEV. 1941 His column was brought to a stop and forced to hastily reform. At first, Germans decided that they met However, they failed to silence It became clear that it wasn't a rearguard but a new defense line. Stop! Get back! This is a pillbox! A machine gun was firing disguised as a village hut. The motorcyclists of the entered the line known to them as the Stalin Line. Cover the machines! In the 20th century, rows of concrete boxes, or pillboxes replaced the toothy walls In the pre-war years, the Mannerheim Line - in Finland, From the end of the 1920-ies, a large-scale construction The foreign mass media though this name The sectors of the defense were divided The name of the fortified district where its defense lines were situated - Novograd-Volynskiy, Polotsk, Letichev etc. The mass media and propaganda of the Soviet fortifications. Due to the great length of the border, it was impossible to build The constructions themselves were small and could hold The gun towers and towers of old-fashioned tanks The line constructed in terms of anti-tank defense When the border shifted westwards the Stalin Line was laid out. Its garrisons and armament were used to create defense lines on the new border. On the eve of the war, the military This is the artillery gunner. Its state is satisfactory And it shall be put in order too. After the defeat of the Red Army the Soviet units retreated hoping to strengthen their positions They firmly believed that they and then drive the Germans back Don't sleep, Sokov! Come on! The first cannon! Fire at the head tank! The distance is 600! The scouts of the First Tank Group led one of the most experienced were the first to get under the fire Ewald von Kleist, Field Marshal General. In 1941, he turned 60. He was the first in Wehrmacht that was later called &quot;a tank group&quot;. In spring of 1940 in France, his troops broke through the continuation and delivered a blow where it surrounded major forces In 1945, he was arrested The Military Collegium of the Supreme Court to 25 years of imprisonment. He died in captivity. Kleist wasn't taken aback During the First World War, of breaking through lines of fortifications In the USSR, they perfected that method. Reference. The shock groups consisted reinforced with miners In the course of the battle, the groups and approach the pillboxes. Then, a cannon would fire at the door or a large demolition charge followed by a jet of fire The defenders of the pillbox Kleist's tanks came out to Stalin Line In the Kiev direction, harsh battles raged for three days. It was constructed in 1932-1938 and was 120 km long. Its front edge stretched along The fortified district could boast From the history &quot;Due to the heavy obstruction fire and bombings from the aircraft, After the raid of the dive bombers, our shock groups would enter the lines and had to destroy By the evening, they finally managed The losses were high: The Germans barely managed to break and by July 8, The Ostropol Fortified District that was also covering the way was destroyed by the German tanks From the history of the 16th Tank Division &quot;The dugouts and bunkers of the Russians as harmless village sheds and huts. The fire from them was unexpected. The field cannons of the enemy fired Those fortifications fell only The enemy was only crushed The tanks prevented repeated consolidation along the defense line. By noon, the last pocket of resistance From Lyubar and Noviy Myropol, All the hopes to suppress along the line of the old border In just four days, Kleist's tanks When the commandant of the South-Western on the first break-through of &quot;This break-through will cost us dearly&quot;! Mikhail Petrovitch Kirponos, of the Hero of the Soviet Union He was the commander of the corps, In the beginning of 1941, of the Kiev Special Military District. He was an active and energetic man. However, his inexperience his relations with the authorities. In the morning of July 9, In a conversation with Berlin, the head of the headquarters &quot;We shall attempt with the forces Hitler, on the contrary, and encircle the main forces In essence, Kleist was moving He had only a couple of days or to obey the Fuehrer's will Kiev was in mortal danger. The head of the operative headquarters Bagramyan recalled: &quot;An officer on duty May I report, Comrade Colonel? I have a report to deliver. The Soviet commandment the paratroopers, the tankmen Detachments that didn't arrive in time to take positions The first battle on close approaches The Germans came out They are coming! They won't scale the bridge. Come on! The crossing is cancelled! The attempt to cross the Irpen River in the course The Kiev Fortified District became Masking nets were thrown off and unwanted guests were received The Kiev Fortified District Here, including three artillery half-gunners The defense line was mostly situated It became the natural anti-tank trench. When the war broke out, the pillboxes were reinforced The attack of the tank divisions at the city The infantry marched Without its support, Kleist's tanks Not bothering to hide their bitterness, obeyed the orders from Berlin White smoke covered the Soviet positions Under the cover of smoke, quietly approached the pillboxes The storm cannons on the front edge On July 15, Letichev Fortified District approaches to Vinnitsa became a new target Reference. It was the future who initiated the production In 1935, he sent a message in which he claimed: &quot;The storm artillery It doesn't attack as a tank; it doesn't break through destroying the most dangerous targets. As opposed to tanks, its strength Such cannons shall be able with just a couple of shots&quot;. In 1940, the German army added storm cannons Sturmgeschutz 3, They looked like chassis of the Pz.III tank It was squat They were practically invincible for the Soviet 45-mm anti-tank guns. Those units were a part and their sole task They could approach the pillboxes By 1945, the StuGIII became of the armored machinery of the Wehrmacht. However, at the beginning at the Soviet-German front. The Letichev Fortified District It was 125 km long and seven artillery pillboxes. Third! Third! Help us with fire. I only have machine guns in my pillboxes! Third! Third! Do you copy? We're almost out of shell! Ten shots were made to the German assualt groups. The pillboxes storm cannons and blasted From the history of the Fourth "After the artillery preparation, and detachments of engineers Bunkers and dugout were destroyed, At 21:30, the task of the day The gap made in the defense The line of the old border and the Soviet troops continued The break-through seriously alarmed the Soviet commandment. Just after midnight on July 18, the commandant of the South-Western sent a report to the General Headquarters in which he gave a surprisingly The Marshal offered a feasible plan &quot;1. It is impossible which was before the forces of the front at our disposal. 2. The further resistance at the positions they are may lead to their complete encirclement in the course of the nearest two days&quot;. Budyonniy Semyon Mikhaylovitch, participated in the Russian-Japanese He was a man of rare bravery. During the Civil War, Before the beginning he insisted on important part of cavalry but at the same time stood up initiated the formation that played an important part in the war. Budyonniy asked the General Headquarters to permit the retreat of the two armies. Few hours later, he got the permission. The Sixth and the Twelfth Armies close to the Dnieper, to Belaya Tserkov. At first, the retreat to the east Vasiliy, are you coming? The commander of the First Division &quot;We couldn't prevent it in any way the brown columns move away The head of the German General &quot;The enemy found a way to whisk its troops from under the threat despite powerful counter-attacks The enemy withdrew its troops However, the break-through towards Kiev and Berdichev became fateful The Germans tank divisions in accordance with the Fuehrer's order, attacked the flanks and the rear On August 3, 1941 About 100,000 were surrounded. The battle by the village Few people managed to escape alive. The commanders of the Sixth Generals Muzychenko and Ponedelin and some commanders of the corps The majority of the captured soldiers and diseases in the so-called Uman Hole - one of the very first concentration camps Ponedelin Pavel Grigoryevitch, commander of the Twelfth Army. After Generals Ponedelin their photos with the German officers Leaflets with their photos to the positions of the Soviet units. He was freed from captivity in 1945. Until 1950, he was under investigation. He was accused of breaking Muzychenko Ivan Nikolayevitch, commander of the Sixth Army. He was wounded when taken prisoner, and liberated in 1945. He was checked by the secret service, and on December 31 of 1945 In 1947, he graduated by the Military Academy After Uman, the divisions in a shape of a fan and moved south, In Nikolayev, the German troops of the Soviet Big Fleet as trophies - a battleship, a cruiser and two submarines. The Germans tankmen examined the forest of cranes, like giant breached fish, with curiosity. And only their commander, von Kleist, was asking himself a rhetorical question: &quot;What are we doing here?&quot; Many kilometers crossed graves and burnt tank skeletons were taking the German troops further from the main target of the campaign - The calm by Kiev didn't last for long. By the end of July of 1941, the infantry of the German Sixth Army It had heavy artillery, flame-throwers and storm cannons at their disposal. A powerful strike at the city The Sixth Army attacked bypassing the defense lines Under the pressure of the enemy infantry, Many pillboxes were surrounded. Their garrisons remained covering for the retreating comrades The pillbox no. 131 was repulsing one attack after another. The brave garrison He only became an officer on June 13, 1941. Attention! Five seconds to the explosion! Finally, and the rear part of the pillbox. Later, a hatch leading to the lower floor The entire garrison died. The neighboring pillbox no. 127 preventing the Germans Its machine guns only fell silent The Germans blew up the door three of them were still alive. The Germans threw them On August 4, a full-blown attack began. After a powerful artillery preparation, the German infantrymen attacked At the left flank, the Germans blocked three pillboxes On August 5, the German units of the fortified district. That success cost them dearly. Franz Halder wrote in his diary: &quot;By Kiev, troops of the Army Group South The Sixth Army loses On August 3-5, In battles close to the city, battalions of the people's guards They were well-armed However, to study the military science. Many didn't even have time Often, passports, party membership tickets were brought to the headquarters The battles for the second line Major Shafarenko recalled: &quot;Thick fog covered the battlefield. When it dispersed, by the villages of Krasniy Traktir Alarm! The Germans! Machine gunners, at your spots! Battery, to the cannons! Move it, come on! Without stopping, they separated and then turned towards the target. Self-propelled cannons left them behind. Shooting on the move, Mortars and artillery fired The bridgeheads changed hands Franz Halder noted in his diary: &quot;The fortified line by Kiev The next day, the German infantry Pirogovo, Myshelovka, Goloseyevo Forest and the territories The Zhulyani Airfield is there. &quot;Zhulyan&quot;? What a funny name! Is it French? The way towards the river and bridges Only one step separated the Germans The Fifth Paratroopers Brigade the future hero of Stalingrad, The cut and insignia reminded those of the pilots. In 1941, the paratroopers They were well-trained During night battles, We will attack at the order, Don't stop and don't bow to the bullets. We'll collect our wounded later. Turn to the right! Later, Rodimtsev wrote &quot;I had faith Rodimtsev Alexander Ilyitch, twice a Hero of the Soviet Union. He got his first Star of the Hero He was an incredibly brave person. In the beginning of the war he led He became famous during where he led Since 1943, he was the commander which he led to Prague. The sun was going down. It seemed Unexpectedly, stroke a blow by the airport. In ten minutes, the attack began. The German infantrymen the pilots were counter-attacking! The paratroopers, dressed were coming at them fully standing, shooting on the move from automatic The Germans decided didn't have any reserves anymore so they had to throw the aircraft crews An unexpected shocked the Germans. By the morning, three kilometers away from the city. The paratroopers managed until the arrival The operative report of August 8 read: &quot;The 284th Shooting Division to reinforce the defense By the end of the day, The battles on the Stalin Line provided for the most important thing - The Red Army used those weeks They were trained and armed in the rear to be thrown on the battlefields Two fresh divisions arrived The newly formed 37th Army and by August 14th, it liberated Teremki, Tarasovka, Chabani, The pillboxes no. 205, 206 and 207 that had been breaking out of encirclement The front by Kiev was restored along The reports of the second half of August &quot;The enemy isn't active on the front...&quot; During the August battles the city went on leading a normal life. Electricity and water supplies theatres, libraries, The residents of Kiev believed A transport Junker was about to land by Letzen in Eastern Prussia. General Guderian, and the commander of the Second Tank Group he had taken with him. On August 23, 1941 to try and talk Hitler Before that, the Fuehrer ordered but in Ukraine and the Crimea. Stubborn resistance of the Soviet troops made Hitler denounce In a result of that, a giant "balcony" was formed Activities of the Soviet aviation from the Crimea also worried Hitler. According to the new plan, Guderian's Second Tank Group into the rear During the report to convince Hitler to change his mind Guderian laid out all the details the approaching winter, the importance the need to save the reserve of the tanks Hitler listened to him attentively but then harshly rejected &quot;My generals know nothing The discussion ended The main force of the German troops At night of August 30, 1941 dozens of searchlights suddenly lit up the surface of the Dnieper by Kremenchug. Machine guns The German miners pushed and moved forward across the river. It didn't take the Germans much time to suppress the resistance On the bank of the Dnieper, they seized At first, as only the German infantrymen were there while the tanks The Soviet scouts noticed the movement of Guderian's Second Tank Group The General Headquarters decided to stop of the Bryansk Front of General Yeryomenko. However, all attempts to stop Yeryomenko only had one tank division He couldn't achieve any visible result On September 10, deep in the rear of the defenders of Kiev. The commandment of the South-Western Front The General Headquarters hesitated. They believed that it was still possible to contain the advance of the South-Western Front. A long distance of about 180 km still separated Guderian On the stronghold itself, the infantry And Kleist's tanks in the lower parts of the Dnieper. However, to the crush of the Soviet troops To avoid Uman's tragedy, the General Headquarters didn't permit From the point of view of the data which the Soviet command had on the enemy in the first decade of September, that choice seemed quite reasonable. The situation was exacerbated The 37th Army that was defending the city amounted to about 100,000 people. At the negotiations with the head at night of September 11, to relieve that army from defending Kiev and use it against the German troops Shaposhnikov rejected that proposition and recommended to take divisions In a couple of hours, the commander of the South-Western Direction Budyonniy In the morning of September 11, &quot;By this time, and surrounding of the South-Western Front of Novgorod-Severskiy and Kremenchug Budyonniy offered either or to leave Kiev to rescue the forces However, the High Commandment could be sorted out That very day, on September 11 the commander of the South-Western Front Stalin reminded Kirponos &quot;Your proposition to withdraw the troops seems dangerous to me. Let's recall recent past. You had a stronger defense line then, However, despite it and the enemy crossed the river the following day, literally Can you guarantee Later, and wanted to hold onto Kiev at any cost. This is not true. He simply set a condition of withdrawal - organization of defense and counter-attacks The order left no place for doubts: &quot;Don't surrender Kiev or blow up bridges without the order Budyonniy insisted on the retreat, and was suspended Marshal Timoshenko Reserves were sent to the front but they amounted that the surrender of Kiev could release. ...The German tanks rode They couldn't see the opposite bank The main forces to the giant 2 km long floating bridge The Soviet scouts simply failed of the German tanks from the south. The crossing went on all night long. With the first rays of the sun, The Soviet command was getting ready However, The fast break-through shocked the Soviet commandment. In the evening of September 13, the head of the headquarters General Major Tupikov sent a report &quot;For now, nobody resists the enemy and Lokhvitsa except so the advance goes on unhindered. The catastrophe which we all anticipate Again, Kirponos suggested leaving to prevent the threat of encirclement. Shaposhnikov hesitated. &quot;I believe that the Military Council especially the commander of the 37th army, exaggerates the mirage The encirclement rapidly transformed On September 14, arrived after heavy rains. The vanguard detachments met at 18:20 by Lokhvitsa. According to the estimates 532,000 of the Soviet soldiers Only on September 16, Colonel Bagramyan flew to Priluky with Timoshenko's order. &quot;In the present circumstances, for the troops of the South-Western Front Kirponos was prohibited that he doubted it truthfulness Bagramyan answered Kirponos refused to surrender Kiev However, the other armies received Kirponos decided to break through The 21st Army the Fifth Army - through Lokhvitsa. After leaving the Kiev Fortified District, the 37th Army had to act The 26th Army was moving towards Lubny. The General Headquarters gave on September 17, at 23:40. The next day, the headquarters At night of September 19, detachments of the 37th Army moving to the eastern bank of the Dnieper. The commander of the Fourth Division &quot;On September 19, At about 11 a.m. the Fascists at the south-western suburbs of the city A signal, over the railway bridge The Darnitsa Bridge flew up into the air. The wooden Navodnitskiy Bridge was sprayed After the blowing up of the bridges, However, On September 16-20, separated By September 20, there were six of them. Parts of the 26th Army were in 20-30 km to the north-east The troops held onto their positions Come on, hold on! Parts of the 37th and 26th Armies were in 40-50 km from Kiev. That group resisted until September 23. Two pockets - units of the Fifth and the 21st Army fought until September 23 to the south-east and east from Piryatin. Units of the 37th Army were in 10-15 km to the north-east of Kiev and held their ground until September 21. Units of the 37th Army by Yagotin until September 26. Fire! Nobody thought about mass surrendering. The encircled troops held on until complete Come on! Forced break-through Bagramyan recalled: &quot;The Germans used Small detachments supported by the tanks while the rest of the forces remained Only those and managed to escape to the eastern bank, The commander of the of the majority of the encircled. Kirponos was killed with a shell splinter. Soon, the head member of the Military Council Burmistrenko and the majority of the officers Only about 20,000 managed to escape Guderian recalled: &quot;Battles for Kiev had However, it still remains has a major strategical significance too. Now, everything depends the decisive results The main group is to be delivered in the direction of Moscow. Do we have enough time for that?&quot; On September 19, On September 24, the NKVD forces blew up mined buildings chosen by the representatives Explosions and fires The building of the Detskiy Mir Then, the circus in the Karl Marx street, the Continental Hotel where headquarters and the neighboring districts followed. Since the times of the defense there were many bottles A terrible fire started. The Kreschatik almost perished. The residents of the nearby houses to prevent the fire from spreading They didn't even try to extinguish fire. It raged unabashed for four days. The Germans used it as a pretext On September 28, about 2,000 leaflets which ordered the Jews to gather on September 29, 1941 on the corner of the Melnikova &quot;with an aim of relocation&quot;, money and other valuables with them. Early in the morning, dozens of people From there, German soldiers escorted them to the Babiy Yar ravine By the ravine, men, and to put their clothes Then, small groups of the Jews On the opposite side of the ravine, On September 29 and 30, the Nazi murdered 33,771 Jews there. Their bodies were buried in a ditch For 103 weeks in a row, the Germans brought people there now regardless of the nationality - The Babiy Yar turned As a place of executions, from September 29, 1941 to September 29, 1943. In summer of 1943, the Germans began The inmates of the Syrets camp from the place of executions and burn the bodies According to the historians' estimates, about 150,000-220,000 people were killed The war crimes of the German troops of the new order that Hitler's Germany on the territory of the USSR. From a simple row of hostilities the war turned into a war Those nations had either to win or to be completely annihilated. The war was becoming