The man known to history as the pirate captain a considerable debate as to where he was born century suggest his name was Edward Teach, yet even this information is not reliable, times often adopted pseudonyms for legal reasons to their more law-abiding relatives. Traditional narratives tell that Blackbeard England around 1680. There is generally agreement descriptions of him being in his mid-thirties he was born in Bristol point towards primary to the notorious pirate captain as, quote, the seventeenth century cities like Manchester, as industrial centres and were little more yet to begin its bewildering ascent as the trade in England. In the seventeenth century time of Blackbeard's birth was the home was the second largest city and port in England, as mariners, including perhaps, the notorious Other places have also been nominated as the The theory behind this location is based on which refers to Blackbeard as, quote, "Born A third theory which has been promoted in a man by the name of Edward Beard who came reviewer of this book noted, in the absence the actual facts of the notorious pirate captain's Carolina are as plausible as any other. While little is known of Blackbeard's early political and social world in which he lived. North Carolina, he was born and raised in was a late arrival to successfully implementing beginning its ascent in the early seventeenth and in Massachusetts. Though other empires the America's earlier, the English tenaciously to expand their influence. By the 1630s English small islands of the Caribbean and West Indies In the mid-1650s Jamaica was wrested from Cromwell, the Lord Protector of the English with the Dutch Republic in the mid-1660s saw renamed New York by the English. Through treaty Native American tribes' lands up and down between these new colonies and the home country, This was the world of the English Atlantic came to prominence in the early eighteenth It is worth briefly backtracking at this juncture modern world. The word 'piracy' is something used initially in early modern times to refer of what we would call 'pirates'. The first word 'pirate' is derived were 'privateers'. in an unofficial capacity by the governments of rival nations. They were given letters if anyone asked too many questions they were the name 'privateers'. The benefits of Elizabeth I of England to employ privateers in the Caribbean in the 1570s and 1580s while government being directly complicit in attacking the occupation ensured government protection were forever on the run from the governments who operated solely on their own initiative be termed buccaneers. These buccaneers operated in the first half of the sixteenth century, the English West Country and even parts of by the second half of the seventeenth century, in the Americas, they had relocated westwards havens in the Caribbean where they could strike between the English, Spanish and French colonies. The increase in Caribbean naval traffic led and Atlantic worlds by the time Teach was to drive the expansion of piracy in the early Charles II of Spain died without a clear heir. grandson of the King of France, Louis XIV, of Habsburg also had a strong claim to the were anxious to avoid the French securing a pan-European war erupted, the War of the years. Much of it played out in the Atlantic eastern seaboard of North America and the of Queen Anne in England began fitting out the French across the Atlantic, while letters Spanish and French shipping were also distributed. as the government issued such letters to individuals those who became some of the most notorious government service in this way during the Edward Teach was seemingly one of these naval his upbringing and early adult years, there he was active in the Caribbean by the 1700s Spanish shipping in the Caribbean during the were, a few things are discernible by this read and possibly write as well. It did not pre-modern times. Some people could read, when it came to signing it, indicating that come from a family of fairly affluent background By the late 1700s or early 1710s he was actively semi-employment of the English crown in the Jamaica and one near contemporary account in this activity, claiming he "distinguished courage", however he was never given command of others. This is not wholly unexpected given he had become one of the more senior officers the early 1710s given his rapid subsequent In 1713 disaster befell the small army of Newfoundland and the Caribbean. After years of London, Paris, Madrid and Vienna negotiated and France never united under one member of royal family could sit on the Spanish throne. to this through the transfer of Spanish lands the Caribbean and elsewhere to them. With to an end leaving thousands of privateers to land, try and find positions as legitimate strike out as lawless buccaneers. Many chose An account of his doings published in 1724 and there he found employ on a ship of buccaneers become known as the 'Gentleman Pirate'. a middling officer, as they began raiding colonies of North America. The exact chronology of events concerning piracy career is not entirely clear. He worked genteel behaviour seems to have rubbed some ejected him from his command and appointed points towards Blackbeard and Bonnet ultimately was back up and running with a separate crew Bonnet and another pirate captain by the name in the western Atlantic and Caribbean. They of the Carolinas and what would later become points like New Providence were effectively water from the Outer Banks eastwards was completely and it was here that Blackbeard and Bonnet any Spanish, English of French merchant ships the ports of Philadelphia, New York and Boston. By the autumn of 1717 Blackbeard was by and They had three ships, an old sloop which Teach a junior partner to Stede Bonnet and the ship him from his leadership position. This was pirate ships. One wonders why the name abounded. they had been treated poorly in the peace believed that their turn towards piracy was had not provided adequate compensation for was added Hornigold's ship, the Ranger. soon afterwards, so that Teach, Hornigold Hands, who were junior commanders to Blackbeard, along the eastern seaboard of North America. and robbed them of their goods here in October Intent, two ships based out of Philadelphia score must have been substantial as Hornigold left with one of the smaller sloops and the soon offered his services as a pirate-hunter. While Blackbeard and his crew were now down soon acquired the ship which Blackbeard is 1717 he and his men came across a French ship Caribbean. This was a Guineaman, the colloquial generally plied their trade along the Guinea their human cargo to the Americas. The ship been an English ship before being captured and his crew fired off several broadside shots Running to over 31 metres in length, with a crew of 200 or more pirates, La Concorde before. He thus made it his flagship and renamed the boat after Queen Anne who had died in former privateers like Teach decided to become when they believed they had been well-treated done with the slaves is unclear. Some may La Concorde, though it is also plausible that joined his crew. With his new flagship and his other two vessels, and along the shores of the English colonies of 1718. One of his most infamous prizes was was seized near St Vincent within days of The sacking of this ship, stranding of its as far afield as New England where The Boston under his command and at least 150 pirates, in his pirate crew had swelled to well over a dozen valuable prizes which Blackbeard and The captain of one of these, Henry Bostock, accounts of Blackbeard when he was deposed Christopher shortly after his return. He noted possessed of an immense black beard. At that to winter on the island of Hispaniola with treasure ships which still sailed from the admittedly thin supply of silver and gold In all of this Blackbeard and his followers the Alliance of Pirates. This had been in when it first emerged in the Atlantic world of Spanish shipping crossing from its enormous involved loosely allied pirate crews who worked in disparate locations. In the early eighteenth like Bermuda and Jamaica, but other were much while for a time Madagascar off the coast haven where shipping from India and the East of these pirate crews were seeking to steal full of gold or jewels would show up, Hollywood staple forms of loot were actually large consignments cocoa, dyes and spices of various kinds, all profits if sold in the right location. One certainly never buried their loot. They sold If a pirate was wandering around the Caribbean with an X on it, he was very much an oddity. Blackbeard's reputation within this Alliance much of the legend surrounding him was burnished doubt that he managed to impress his contemporaries imposing presence. His beard was, one will grown in such a fashion that it covered much a "large quantity of hair, which like a frightened America more than any comet that was it that he would twist some of it into In combat he was said to walk the deck of slung over his shoulder and wearing a fur or dynamite was placed by him coming out of "imagination cannot form an idea of a fury His private life had an element of pure fiction account of Teach's life which was published been married at least fourteen times, with of writing in the mid-1720s. It was common captain and his wives to engage in orgies. or whether or not it was entirely fabricated Georgian England is open to considerable debate, of the Golden Age of Piracy do think that by the pen-name Charles Johnson, was himself in the late 1710s. Teach or Tatch was also after a night of heavy imbibing he allegedly of a ship and then wandered around roaring A journal of his which has not survived but his death contained entries like "Such a a day, took one, with a great deal of liquor hot, then all things went well again." It like this how Blackbeard and pirates like debauchery. These salacious and often fantastical details Blackbeard's reputation and legacy was based winter of 1717 and into the spring and early he and his men evidently abandoned the idea and instead sailed for the Carolinas in North that they would blockade the port of Charleston was one of the most important port towns in North America. By the early eighteenth century in the Southern Colonies and huge consignments European market every year. Few people would substantial for the very simple reason that and it was assumed that the defences of the a pirate attack. But Teach was about to prove the outskirts of Charleston. The blockade of Charleston continued for a lies inside the Charles Town Bar, a bar or at the mouth of the Ashley River. Ships have to avoid running aground on the shoals. Aware their ships along the Bar and waited here They captured several ships in the process, was disembarking to head across the Atlantic officials and figures who Blackbeard took Carolina, Robert Johnson, that he had them in the form of medicines, an act which suggests Teach's crew, or perhaps a growing penchant Whichever was the case, an arrangement was his captives after depriving them of their decided it was best to make himself scarce be gathered to strike against him. The blockade events in the whole of the Golden Age of Piracy, a pirate crew managed to effectively block port towns of North America. While the blockade of Charleston might have power of the alliance of pirates in the years events were conspiring to bring about a major his many allies. As early as 1715 the government who had arrived from Germany just weeks earlier following Queen Anne's death, entered into and his ministers were deeply disturbed to privateers who had so recently been allies were now attacking any shipping they came struck at English economic interests in the attacking ships in the Caribbean and North the crown risked creating a diplomatic crisis French or Spanish ships. Consequently, there from 1715 onwards. This made little headway in the first year a ship of the Royal Navy, managed to capture in the Caribbean early in 1717 that the first awareness that dozens of pirate ships were proposed a strategy of conciliation through would be offered pardons and would be allowed they agreed to cease their buccaneering activity. to take this approach, in September 1717 the for the Suppression of Pirates or the Act stipulated that any pirate who surrendered governor in one of the North American colonies 1718 would be pardoned of any crimes he or 1718. The deadline was subsequently extended was that anyone who did not surrender by that head and would be hunted by the Royal Navy. to make a decision: accept the riches they risk everything. Teach's movements in the months that followed his life were substantially influenced by and attitudes towards piracy. One of these who had been appointed as the Governor of through the early 1720s. Eden was notoriously and others like Stede Bonnet and Benjamin of Blackbeard published in 1724 even suggests Teach's fourteen marriages. Official complaints he had benefited financially and materially coast of the Carolinas. This was the figure pardons in 1718 and 1719. The counterpoint to Eden was Alexander Spotswood. as the Governor of the Virginia colony to in the midst of the war with France and Spain. Virginia colony in the years that followed expanded westwards into the Blue Ridge Mountains Virginia. Spotswood was a by the book government corrupt dealings his colleague in North Carolina onwards to crackdown on the growing piracy same orders. He took an uncompromising approach that he would prosecute them with all military to accept the generous pardon offer which government. Eden and Spotswood loomed over a way out, the other promising their destruction For Blackbeard the decision to seek a pardon occurred in the fortnight following the blockade of the quasi naval siege of this major port the intention of careening their ships on scraping out the hulls and preparing them for whatever reason, maybe the prodigious fond of, both the Queen Anne's Revenge and run aground on the sands of the inlet. The as extensive parts of the hull, was damaged sufficient supplies to fix the ship. There as accidental as it first seemed and that the ship in an effort to reduce the size of on land on the Carolinas and potentially leave part of the booty they had acquired in blockading the previous winter. Whether accidental or Revenge left in the waters off of North Carolina Whether Blackbeard intentionally scuttled significant, because the sinking of his flagship growing number of buccaneers who were seeking the offer of amnesty when he was in the Caribbean after learning of the amnesty offer that Blackbeard Charleston, safe in the knowledge that he He then blockaded Charleston, scored a big aground two weeks later in order to drive a greater proportion of the loot himself. in the midsummer of 1718, just a week or two himself before Governor Eden and obtained his previous wrongdoings. This was a brilliant life having acquired some hefty riches in Even more fortuitous for Blackbeard and other England and Spain following Spain's reoccupation one of the territories it had ceded to Austria of the Spanish Succession. If war broke out Bonnet and others were doubtlessly calculating letters of marque to operate as privateers If Blackbeard was imagining that he could then he was soon disabused of the notion. June 1718, he and many other pirates began shores of the Carolinas. But he hadn't banked Alexander Spotswood. No sooner had Eden handed who then began settling along the Outer Banks began preparing to prosecute these same individuals. in Blackbeard's plan. The Proclamation for that had held out the promise of pardons to specific provision that anyone availing of 1718, a deadline which was later extended that they would only receive pardons for crimes of January 1718. This stipulation had been individuals doing exactly what Blackbeard then deciding to engage in one last bout of be acquired afterwards. Teach had done precisely which had been carried out four months after this knowledge, Spotswood was determined to of the pardon which Eden had issued to them As Spotswood began plotting to undermine Blackbeard, Creek on Plum Point in North Carolina. He in June and he had put in a petition to become again with the Spanish. Many of his more loyal probably was anxious that he would obtain aware that there was growing suspicion of to those involved in the blockade of Charleston emerging around lawlessness, drunkenness and that the former pirates had settled in. It in August that Teach had been involved in the coast, though the admiralty court in Pennsylvania been wrecked naturally. All of this was enough stood on firm enough ground to override Eden pirates in the Carolinas as though their pardons sound given that the blockade of Charleston Throughout August and September of 1718 Spotswood from individuals such as William Howard, the Revenge, to have a good idea where Teach and Carolina. Armed with this information he began Banks. He appointed Lieutenant Robert Maynard, to oversee the mission and granted him the the latter being the HMS Pearl renamed. Just board the two ships, with an offer held out or capturing Blackbeard, one offered by the were worried that Teach and his associates and would soon begin attacking ships if left armed with dozens of canons and incentives, on their two ships on the 17th of November An extensive contemporary account of the events 1724 and provides an unusual level of detail be the final events of Teach's life. After and his men on the Ranger and the Jane arrived what is now called Cape Lookout. They had Blackbeard or any of his followers to their appears that Teach was informed of their coming perennial friend, Governor Eden. As a result, in North Carolina, Teach had ordered his former ship, the small sloop, the Adventure for them slip away if he did arrive. They did not make Banks as this was not the first warning they and the Virginians to capture him. Had he have been more alert to the potential threat. said to have spent the night before Maynard in a local tavern. Maynard and his men laid anchor at the mouth November 1718. There they spent the night hoisting the king's colours to let anyone business. By then Teach and approximately Blackbeard cut the cables to loosen the ship ships. His undoing was that the Adventure was thus able to pull up close and weigh anchor, far more canons, to begin firing on the Adventure. Maynard shouting across the water at each raising a glass of spirits to his assailant offer Maynard and his men no quarter before A dozen or so men were lost on both sides Blackbeard nearly won the day as Maynard's waters. Teach made it to Maynard at this juncture broke. The Lieutenant would probably have and sliced Teach badly along his neck and point his few remaining followers began fleeing the ground. It had been a fitting last stand. As one account brute, who might have passed in the world cause." Maynard ordered that his head be sailed onwards to Bath Town to acquire medical Teach, Eden and others was allegedly discovered house which indicated the governor's complicity in New York. A diary of Teach's was also it sadly has not survived. After recovering with several of the pirates taken as prisoners, Many of the prisoners were placed on trial set up on a spike at the entrance to the Chesapeake to any other pirates tempted to ply their News soon spread of the notorious pirate captain's Boston reporting on the famed buccaneer's Blackbeard was just the first of the great government crackdown in the late 1710s. Two Stede Bonnet had been captured and taken alive. to death. He was hanged in Charleston, the on the 10th of December 1718. A few months to the sea as a pirate hunter of sorts, was seen again. In November 1720 another infamous on Jamaica. He was executed at Port Royal a warning to all would-be pirates in the region. and Anne Bonny, were captured with Calico they were pregnant. Bonny disappeared from but Read died in prison. Finally, Bartholomew inventing something akin to the skull and 1722 in a clash with a Royal Navy ship off within a few years of Blackbeard's death captains had joined him in Davy Jones's Ocean where they were less like to end up pirate of the 1680s and 1690s who retired in obscurity into the 1710s were the exception in its supposed golden age. By the time Bartholomew Jack was killed in was already beginning to emerge. Their exploits public and in London in 1724 a book appeared of the infamous pirate captain. This was entitled of the Most Notorious Pyrates and was allegedly Johnson. No record exists of any captain sailing it is assumed that he was using a pen-name speculation as to who the author of the General theory holds that the author was Daniel Defoe, Crusoe, five years earlier in 1719. Whoever cannot be understated how influential it was Golden Age of Piracy and the reputations of In it Teach and over two dozen other famous of the pirate life, such as the raising of Blackbeard's reputation and legend was further century saw a renaissance in pirate lore. character in Matilda Douglas's fictional History of Philadelphia, though it had little of North Carolina. More significant was the of Robert Louis Stevenson's Treasure Island, a wide array of tropes concerning the buccaneers both mentioned directly by Stevenson and one to the deputy commander of the Queen Anne's century have all been based to some extent of Captain Hook in Peter Pan, a pirate captain running around the deck of his ship with dynamite and films have centred on characters either cultural image of Blackbeard, the most recent of the Caribbean franchise. Blackbeard's status as the most infamous Age of Piracy has ensured that academic interest been able to obtain funding for projects related might be. In the late 1990s a project discovered off the coast of North Carolina. Naval archaeological thirty cannons and tens of thousands of different wreckage. Live underwater footage of the wreck 2011 the National Geographic Society confirmed ship as sufficient evidence had accumulated a wine glass decorated to commemorate the of Britain in 1714, and a sword similarly of France in 1715. Fragments of a book entitled have even been identified from the wreckage, second half of the 1710s, which when combined of the ship make it very likely that it is The story of the pirate captain Blackbeard as the quintessential pirate, a swashbuckling Caribbean and along the seaboard of what would of his birth are unclear, including where of his life is an enigma. The historical record when he suddenly bursts into the Atlantic buccaneer only lasted about two years before as a pirate was similar to most of the famed in the years immediately following the end majority of these pirates invariably were sense Blackbeard's story is entirely representative What do you think of Blackbeard? Is his reputation a pirate captain for a brief period of time legend? Please let us know in the comment much for watching.