You know in online chess, if you get and you promote it to a queen, the [Ding!] And if you play a game over the queen, and swap the pieces yourself. But a few months ago, someone I should make an animation where And I've just been thinking What if you can actually have this 5, it is the Polish variant I think. What if this can Look at the size difference. There are just so many interesting going to have to have a lot of panels then eventually turning into a queen. So to start out, I think I'm going to precisely as I possibly can in Blender. I'll take some pictures with my phone, with a curve, and use the screw modifier And what I really like about this process to throwing clay on a potter's wheel. And since I'm using a vector curve I only have to trace this once. Because at any stage in this process, mesh to be as high or as low as I want. So now we got the 3D models of And we're looking at the The queen is bigger than the pawn. And not only is it nearly significantly larger diameter. And I don't want to deform, I want this transformation to consist Like a transformer from the movies. So, to increase the pawn's height. I think the solution is simple. We can just break it up into segments But to increase the pawn's diameter So after some research, I found this. A Fletcher Capstan Table. It's a design where the diameter by reorganizing hidden parts. And I just love this design so much, so I'm starting to realize that this than I initially anticipated, but, Okay, so my workflow for this project the pawn into multiple horizontal slice will be separated into these components from floating in midair. I'll be adding a lot of internal every design choice as if I'm making a this mindset makes it a lot easier to the same logical framework can be So I can sort of turn my brain off and And yeah, [chuckles] this is, this I want to give a big thanks to Storyblocks is a curated stock quality 4k and HD footage, templates, It's a great resource for making And since I use DaVinci Resolve, I really powerful templates where you can easily overlays, logo reveals, and other And the quality on some of the is actually pretty crazy. Look at this 4K footage for example, Look at that, that is just amazing. And I really like that you can specify videos come with music recommendations. And that music is also That's pretty nice, actually. And best of all, anything is 100 percent royalty free. So you can focus on making stuff about the legal rights of a video So, to get started with unlimited set price, head to storyblocks. com slash polyfjord, or check Now, let's get back to the video. Okay, so I've sped up the animation because I think that fits the And to fill in this open area some cross like figures that But, just when I was about to telescope segment, the entire For some reason, my brain just out a way to fill all these gaps. I just got a massive creative block, but I simply could not figure I was looking for inspiration in a place that I didn't expect. So, we were playing Apex Legends, really intriguing animation. Look at that. That is just so satisfying. And I got so distracted by this but this animation combined with the I don't know, something just clicked and I And the reason I'm telling you all you in the weirdest way when you least Okay, so we got roughly two thirds And we're approaching what's been worrying The queen's head has like this crown while the pawn is just a round head. So I think there's gonna be a lot of do have an idea that I think might work, of this entire transformation effect. So, there's our new queen. It feels a bit majestic in a way, almost since chess is an old and beautiful game. So, for textures, I'm going to be using textures from AmbientCG, and I think on the side here into gold, to really So, these are pretty much the render, and now I want to try and to see what this transforming pawn So, to place our virtual pawn on this real So today we'll be using my new camera, with the Sigma 20mm f1.4 We'll be shooting in 6K high I just love this so much yeah, and So these pieces have a king height of 96 55 millimeters. It's nice to have some It's not necessary, but it's-- Okay, so we have our camera, we have our use for reference and get inspired by. But there are some things that we also easy for us when doing visual effects. So the first thing I got is this. It is a color checker that this is properly calibrated. So that just takes a couple of seconds I might not end up using it, but it's And then to make sure that we know We are going to use a 360 camera. This is the Rico Theta Z1. We are going to do a multi bracket So we get all the levels from It's such a nice asset to lights and stuff in Blender. Okay, and then I have one more thing. So this is the Godox LC500R, and this shape that is relatively So I'm going to try and just And we get this beautiful So let me just show you So here we have our pieces. And now if you get this light that beautiful soft lighting. This is looking so beautiful already. Let me just show you, you can do this Now the problem with this lens is can't really isolate any pieces So I want to try out I do have a hundred millimeter macro, Yes. I think this is my favorite lens. I've had this for so many years. It's the Canon 100mm f2.8 macro lens. It's been with me my entire life so I'm going to need an adapter for it. Look at this lens. That is amazing. Okay, let's see what it looks like. That is-- I mean, you really-- look at that. Uh-- [chuckles] yeah, I'm going to have I mean, the stabilizer is really working of this macro lens is to just inspect bit more about this wooden texture on it. So now I'm going to rearrange all these planned, and I'm going to shoot it, and to Blender, so, uh, I'll see you there. So here we are in Blender version 4.0, and we're finally ready to combine all And first, I want to just You don't need all that It is very much possible to do on a tripod using free software. So just to prove that, I'm not I'm gonna show you how you can Just from the video file So let's make a camera and let's import And we know this is going to be a So let's line this up. And to make things easier, align it with the chessboard. So now let's add our light think we remember where it was. And now, to add the shadow, we're just smooth backdrop like this, and then we're So now when we set the film to we can use the compositor to put And this is a pretty general node this and use it in your own project. But this still doesn't look realistic. So now it's time for the big brain move. Let's take our shadow catcher, and And use the texture So now the indirect lighting that hits It will be the same color as the ground. And then finally we can use the I like to view and adjust which makes this a lot easier. And then as a cherry on top, you can the sensor noise of your camera. So the render looks a And that's it! Now I'm going to challenge my friend to to get my pawn promoted to a queen.