The second law of thermodynamics tells us disorder. And in complex systems, chaos is to be messy. And yet, we can observe occasions of metronomes, the perfectly timed orbits and even the regular beating of your heart. nature's tendency for disorder. This video was sponsored by Kiwico more about On June 10 2000, the Millennium Bridge, a London was opened to much excitement. But back and forth. Police started restricting in long lines to get on the wobble was unaffected. 18 million pounds, was fully closed, and it what went wrong? Well, it's long been known that armies should back to an accident in 1831. When 74 men from the Broughton suspension bridge in northern footsteps. 60 men fell into the river 20 of concussions. Luckily, no one was killed. But to break step when crossing bridges. Now look at the people walking across the in step with each other. But they are not the public so why are they walking together? for heavy pedestrian traffic handle this? 350 years. In 1656, famous Dutch physicist Christian clock. The goal was to help sailors figure can be judged by measuring the position of need to know the time at some fixed location, were routinely out by around 15 minutes a pendulum clocks by contrast, were accurate was to attach his clocks to a heavy hanging around by the rolling seas. His plan called damaged. But testing out this arrangement while at discovery. To have his clocks hung from a pendulums sway back and forth for hours. He spontaneously synchronize. As one clock swung way. As one would tick, the other would talk. So he tried disturbing the clocks. He set 30 minutes or so they were back to the same of clocks must have been caused by air currents board in between them, but their clocks continued When he separated the clocks, the synchrony But when he brought them back together, the clocks were synchronizing because they were mechanical vibrations from one clock to the wegens was the first to observe this kind objects. And although he qualitatively described ago that scientists started fleshing out a You may have seen this demo where you put and start them out of sync. It's trickier than people make it look. When you do get it to work, though. It's kind These metronomes don't have exactly the same in time. To understand how this works, it's oscillating in sync with each other. When push the platform to the right. And when they to the left. So the center of mass of the Now, if you start another metronome completely of the platform gives it a kick every half the first two. This works, regardless of you have, the platform just goes whichever way the majority of metronomes are pushing We can represent the position of a metronome on a circle. This shows its phase that is call the rightmost point of the pendulum zero degrees. And as the pendulum oscillates back the higher the frequency of the oscillator, So this represents two metronomes with different And this represents two metronomes with the When the metronomes are synchronized in phase, we can use this depiction to illustrate a we've been looking at. It's called the Kuramoto the circle equals its natural frequency, plus all the other dots. And the size of this term like to think of it actually visually by thinking like suppose you're running with your friend, your friend says, you know, come on, move you're slow, you're falling behind. So if try hard enough, and if the friend is sympathetic you is strong enough to overcome that inherent But if you're not very good friends, or, you yourself faster, then the coupling will not in one person will start lapping the other, good enough friends, because they synchronize own particular frequency at which it likes enough so that hundreds, even 1000s can flash a great simulation of this by Nicky Case, their thing. And then you can turn on the model, this would mean every Firefly has an a firefly is only affected by its neighbors. internal clock forward a little bit, so it'll Now, what's remarkable about this is even range, over time, you can see waves traveling they're all flashing at once. Like you might think if you increase the coupling, and more synchronized. That's not what happens. freeze as you lower the temperature, its water, And then at a critical temperature, the molecules solid instead of liquid. And this is a sort thing. They sort of lock their phases in time, And at that point, the sort of crystallization in time is the phenomenon This is an audience in Budapest applauding is completely spontaneous. They're not being the phase transition. this phenomenon of synchronization that we've i find most appealing about it is how universal from subatomic to cosmic channel that nature has ever devised from gravitational interactions electrical interactions the two things can influence each other nature take our own moon for example we only ever axis exactly once for every time it goes around earth and this is a common effect in our solar locked to their planet the way this happens with its own rotational frequency but the stronger on the side closer to the planet which is greatly exaggerated here as the moon those bulges swing out of alignment with the is constantly pulling them back into alignment it is locked to the planet if the moon is can speed it up until it's locked there are phenomena in our solar system the three innermost not only tidally locked to the planet they're each other for every time ganymede goes around times in the 1950s some russian chemists went looking like a chemical analog of a pendulum like say between blue and orange over and over because there's principles of thermodynamics their entropy over time that they're just principle in chemistry or thermodynamics that you are allowed to oscillate and damp out is exactly what Boris Belousov off and later is known as the Belousov Zhabotinsky or BZ for half an hour or more oscillating between burnt orange color so i sped up those sections shocking to see a chemical reaction doing acting like a clock like a pendulum so the you really get a sense of the collectivity avogadro's number of molecules all doing the if you don't stir if you just put like a petri even more amazing i think which is that you expanding circles of color moving through itself is not moving it's not like we're seeing chemical concentrations you can see these waves not not water waves and that will just and or they can look like a spiral that just really spooky and uncanny about this is that can see spiral waves of electrical excitation waves in chemical oscillations and chemical sort of thing that inspired my mentor a guy waves to give himself insight into cardiac most deadly kind of a arrhythmia that the of minutes ventricular arrhythmias ventricular seeing these rotating spirals on hearts as what's really causing ventricular fibrillation defibrillators That are gentler, that could be a good outcome of this theory. You know, in a fibrillation heart is what causes no ensues. So too little synchronization is obviously also cause trouble. Remember, Bridge, it was all apparently down to something called crowd synchrony Was it the people walking kind of the opposite. The Millennium Bridge So its construction is unique. Unlike a typical alongside it stretched taut, like guitar strings. know that you do not build a footbridge with of human walking. So we take about two strides your right foot. So everybody who takes civil on the bridge, It better not have a resonant hertz. Okay, everybody knows that, including But what they didn't know. And what was new important, a frequency of one cycle a second, down, say, your left foot, half the time you're Because when you're walking across a bridge, tiny force sideways on the bridge. And normally, walking at their own pace, so their sideways forces which are only about a 10th, as big as their downward forces that they impart on the bridge, and it wouldn't do anything to the bridge. frequency of one cycle a second, which the can actually start to get the bridge moving engineers got their colleagues to walk across its acceleration. With 50 people on the bridge, vibrations had barely increased at 156, there people 166 the acceleration grew dramatically. day, the system had undergone a phase transition. It turns out, people don't like to walk on If you've ever been in a train, that's kind and it starts moving sideways, people spread And they will actually start to walk in step. can see footage from the BBC, of people doing people walking in sync that got the bridge got people to walk in sync. And so as the bridge, by adopting this weird kind of penguin more energy into the bridge and making its feedback loop between the motion of the crowd, more people to get in step with the bridge, bridge. Once the problem was identified, they strength. They installed energy dissipating embarrassment, and it cost several million In science, we do reductionism, all of our problem is to break it into smaller parts and analyze the parts. And successful for every branch of science. But happens when you try to go back to put the the field of complex systems. That's why we We don't understand consciousness very well more than the sum of the parts. That's the research career. I want to understand how given the properties of the parts? Hey, this video is sponsored by Kiwico, which And I've actually been using their subscription I wanted to reflect on some of the things kids want to do these projects with me. When it open and start making and you can do exactly in the box. now my kids are still pretty young but Kiwico at different age groups all the way down to segment my four year old completely unprompted we could do... We could do an experiment with it go" that's a good idea let's try it i was so proud that he came up with that all like this considering the what ifs and asking thought starter in a box plus it is time to so if you want to try it out go to Kiwico 50% off your first month of any crate i'll want to thank Kiwico for sponsoring veritasium