In this video, we're going to be looking the video, you would be able to identify most of substation. It tends to be one of those areas to be a little bit weaker in, because, well let's not the kind of equipment that you can go home to start with a smaller substation, the Maitland I like this substation because it really only functions: One is to convert high voltages to low of a substation is to protect the electricity for example. The first major piece of equipment is the transformer. You can usually identify them to be about 2 meters wide. They'll have bushings is the high voltage side and the low voltage have bigger bushings. The high voltage power lines also tend to be farther off the ground than those the transformer. The reason why there are three because this is a three-phase transformer. The is at 34.5 kilovolts and the low voltage side rated load of 7.5 MVA. That means that, on the up to a maximum of 7.5 MW. That's quite a lot of it turns out that the secondary side of of only a about 2.4 MVA. That means that the that's very important in an electricity grid. goes online that's going to draw more power from to not have to go out and change a bunch of ought to have enough capacity to handle ordinary In order to protect the substation, it naturally strikes the highest point in the substation, which all of these lightning rods are connected might strike the power lines anyhow. If lightning then the lightning arresters, which ordinarily and divert the current from the lightning strike the transformer from lightning. We wouldn't want, a lightning bolt to find its way down into the would be very costly and very time consuming to to the secondary side of the transformer are has its own voltage regulator. The reason why we is because the load is continuously changing. furnaces on and off. What can happen is if a lot transformer, then the voltage might start to sag. monitors the output voltage and makes adjustments of the transformer are fused disconnects. can also disconnect the high voltage lines by automatically in the case that the fuse is blown. that occur in an electricity grid can actually An animal might accidentally be electrocuted by While the animal is being electrocuted, there's once the poor animal is electrocuted, it would in time, the surge in current would stop. Now we or to blow a fuse that would require the utility since, once the animal has fallen off the cleared. That brings us to this next component, it monitors that particular power line and looks condition, it will break the circuit. But what after a short period of time, it will reconnect fault condition is still there. If the fault it and reconnect it a few times to see if the it will ultimately open back up requiring manual companies a lot of time. Let's take a look at This is a bit larger substation, because the opponents we can identify here. The first thing I bushings on the primary side are a lot taller side. That's why I know that the high voltage is over on the right. The straight bars that we are called busbars. We can see them over here on different lightning rods in this photograph and, if lightning strikes the substation, that the to ground. All lightning rods are connected to utility pole has four wires instead of three. The are power lines (three different phases), but that's just connected to ground. If lightning strike the static wire that's grounded, rather want. If lightning were to strike one of the power help divert the current from the strike down to I can see three different voltage regulators. because they look like short little cylinders of a transformer. Connected to the primary side fuses. Just upstream of these three fuses, I see in a power grid to be able to switch the power it whenever you want to, but that's easier said voltages and you try to pull a switch apart, the little lightning bolt between the two conductors these disconnect switches have to be fairly large connection. Here's how one of these disconnect of current at a very high voltage running through switch, a little lightning bolt forms between sure that when you start opening the switch, you switch is being opened, the lightning bolt will be off. When the switch is closed again, you're also sure that you don't take your time in closing event to open and close these disconnect switches point out here in the substation is the circuit because they have busbars coming out of them don't normally go directly off of a circuit switch, provide an automated way to switch power company requiring a rolling blackout, they can breakers and tell it, &quot;Shut off the power.&quot; Well, if you just simply try to open a switch, you're is going to keep flowing. What these circuit they have a way to extinguish that spark very blowing some gas through the spark quickly, in be done very quickly. Let's take a look at another substation. The location of the transformer see here a radiator to keep the transformer side of the transformer is over here on the is over on the right. We have three 69-kilovolt the secondary side is 12.47 kilovolts. These are power line to the structure of the substation can identify a number of fused disconnects and over here on the secondary side, we see a view of the same substation for perspective. showing another's perspective here is because think it's a little easier to see it from this identify the transformer, but what I'd really is that some of the disconnect switches happen to also rather easy to see. Hopefully, now, the next be able to identify some of its major components. and edited videos in order to help students liked watching this particular video, then you