I've been using Zigbee for a couple of years For the most part I've never had any reliability As I got up to around 60 different zigbee I'm a nerd and it's fun to play with new things started to get flaky. Lights would no longer turn on instantly when I'd ask Google to turn off the lights in off. It really started to get annoying and I began more reliable. After a few months of testing different things I made to create a truly rock solid Zigbee I personally use Zigbee with Home Assistant But these steps that I'm going to share The first thing I did to improve performance dongle. When I first started out with Zigbee I bought on the Texas Instruments CC2531 chipset. It worked perfectly well out of the box in Zigbee2MQTT, my 5 or so smart lights and three When I moved to a slightly bigger house, it sensors that were far away stopped reporting I fixed this by adding a few smart light bulbs I'll touch a bit more on that later. As my Zigbee network grew, I found that my every couple of weeks, and you'd have to it back in and restart it before it would I also noticed that it became harder to pair I embarrassingly learned that the CC2531 chipset model, and that most people now recommend larger Zigbee networks and has better support The recommended models now use the newer CC2652 USB sticks on the market that use this hardware. I've had great results with Slaesh's stick, Plus. For full disclosure, Sonoff offered to send seen my previous Zigbee videos. I agreed to this as I use a lot of Sonoff pretty reliable, even if they often feel cheaply They are incredible value for money though on the new chipset and supports Zigbee 3.0 I've been using it for a couple of weeks It performs better than my existing CC2531 Sonoff is currently selling for. The Sonoff looks just like any other Zigbee firmware pre-installed on it so it should In the box you get the USB stick itself, and It's quite large in size compared to my really matter as you should always connect using a USB extension cable. This is another tip to improve your Zigbee A Zigbee USB stick is essentially a radio to radio interference. If you connect your stick directly into the like this raspberry pi, there could be interference Even though this Sonoff coordinator comes interference, I still think it's best to away from anything that could cause this kind Point or Bluetooth keyboard. The Sonoff Zigbee 3.0 USB Dongle Plus is compatible If you're setting up a new Zigbee network available online and the instructions are I've put a link in the description below Home Assistant using ZHA. If you're replacing your old USB coordinator network it gets a little more complicated. You'll need to either re-create your Zigbee painful, or you can migrate your devices from There's a guy called Lewis, who has a great and he made an excellent video that shows to another without having to re-pair your I personally decided to use this opportunity network, which required re-pairing all my But if you're looking to just replace your or any other more powerful dongle, then I I've linked in the description below. It will save you a lot of time! For some people, replacing the USB coordinator stable. But if you're like me you probably didn't detail, and just started pairing devices willy your house and didn't factor in anything Since I'd already mentally prepared myself and fix all my automations I thought I'd in one hit over a weekend. The second improvement I made was to ensure of channels to my Zigbee network to prevent Zigbee and some Wifi networks both work on the 2.4 Ghz range. This radio frequency is then broken up into and TV channels used to work. If you have a lot of Wifi devices, and Zigbee set up to use overlapping radio channels, for airtime and signals could get lost or It's a lot like trying to communicate with talking at once. To prevent this you can set your Wifi network network up to use a different channel that Changing your Zigbee channel usually requires I figured I may as well do this as I had planned I've linked to this website in the description overlap with which 2.4 Ghz WiFi channels, how this all works. I decided to set up my Zigbee network on Channel You can set this in both ZHA or Zigbee2MQTT, to re-pair your devices if you do this. I then went to my Wifi settings and excluded my Wireless devices used the higher channels, Also be aware that if you live in a city or wifi may also interfere with both your WiFi There are many Wifi Analyser type apps you the wireless networks in your area and tell which ones might be less crowded. If you have a different 2.4 Ghz and 5 Ghz you connect as many devices with the 5 Ghz Most new devices support 5 Ghz, and not only with the Zigbee network. Sadly older or cheaper Wifi devices, like yet support 5 Ghz. The third improvement I made to improve my is to create a solid mesh network. If you're not aware, permanently hard wired switches have the ability to act as Zigbee them. This means that you can pair a battery powered bulb can pass that signal onwards to your It could also pass it to another router, which the distance limitations of your USB coordinator Routers also allow you to add more devices by default, because each device is talking I explain this in a bit more detail in my in the description below. I wanted to make sure that my routers were mesh network is as robust as possible. This required a bit of pre-planning about battery powered sensors. I also had to make sure that I paired them properly. Here's the theory. A Zigbee USB coordinator, like the Sonoff, directly. Once it hits that limit, the only way that existing ones can act as a router. Radio signals generally emit outwards in a I know, I know, it depends on the antenna of this explanation it's good enough... Home Assistant server with your USB coordinator If you put it in the basement, it will probably routers in between. It will still work, but if you can put it better. I then started pairing my hard wired devices, from close to my coordinator and then slowly This way the routers closest to the Coordinator all 20 slots were taken up. Then the routers that are further away from and build up the mesh network. Once I had all my routers paired, I moved temperature and motion sensors. When I paired these devices the first time, office and then move them to their final resting This turned out to be a stupid idea because in my office, and then I would move them out connection. I now re-paired the devices in situ, where connect to the closest router. This whole process was a massive pain in the of a weekend. But it really has made a big improvement to I no longer hear my partner yelling at me lights didn't turn on". Re-pairing all my devices actually gave me opportunity to re-name them all using a sensible in Home Assistant. I used to make up names for my sensors and of plan or system. After two years of this it ended up looking where "coloured bulb 2" was. Do you use a naming convention with your Home I'd love to hear about them in the comments to this topic in future. It would be great to incorporate all your other than just Pedram's... Hi Pedram. The downside to renaming all your devices scripts that rely on these. You'll also need to recreate any Home Assistant I just did these slowly over time when I noticed For me the benefits have outweighed the effort If you thought this video was useful, then If you're looking to get Zigbee working USB dongle, then check out this video here. If you want to know my opinions about whether out this video here. I regularly release videos about Zigbee, Home so if that's your jam then click the subscribe smarter.