if you've searched for hard drives on Amazon, you've probably seen drives that are labeled as renewed or refurbished and they look really cheap, and they look tempting. But I think the question is always - what does refurbished really mean? And can I trust what seem to be secondhand hard disks? After all if someone is selling them, then why? So to understand this better I bought four of these disks and I did in-depth testing on them. I looked into the reliability data on the models, the reason they're being sold and investigated, what the And you can also use this information to help you know when you get a lemon and you want to return these discs come from different sources. Amazon what can be labeled as renewed or refurbished, but are handled might vary. The prices also vary but there are some potential Bargains here. So in my case, I bought four HGST 12TB Ultrastars. This Digital, so they could come labelled differently but they are fundamentally the same drives. Mine came as HGST branded and I order mine from Amazon UK, but they were shipped from the US and the seller in my case was 'Amazon Export Sales LLC.' normal UK return process so other than a delay in them getting here this isn't an issue. But, to be clear, that my results might not be the same as yours given what I've just said. But I don't think that this is a reason not to look at these. You just need to take the appropriate steps to make sure you don't get stuck with bad drives. So my better protected than even new disks that I've bought. They were also sealed in new anti-static bags and in physically great condition. Each one was bubble wrapped and individually boxed and they also came in a bubble wrap packed outer good and the drives were manufactured 6 years ago, between manufacture and installation. So really the manufacturing date is not the most important thing here. I have bought new drives before that are 3 years old so we going to be looking at the power on time and other stats shortly. I have bought refurbished disks before that were Dead on Arrival, notably I bought some Ironwolf Pro 18TBs recently and there were some DOAs, and this wasn't even recognized in a PC or an NAS, so these were properly dead drives. So the first thing to check that they are not Dead on Arrival. I have a Saberent USB3 enclosure that I use for this kind of testing, so it's quick to plug in initialize and to take a look at something like CrystalDiskInfo to find out about the disk. some of the values can be difficult to extract but the raw values in HEX are the ones that you're interested in. For example, the power on hours down here in HEX is 9A50 but this equates to around 39,500 hours in decimal. The key thing to look for are going to be things like reallocated sectors, seek rates, pending sectors; prefer to pull the stats directly from SMART Tools on Windows or Linux and you can get that below. This allows you to directly query the SMART stats and it has options to also export the data in JSON format which is great if you want to build let's look at more interesting stats in the drives that I received. Now, again, your mileage may vary but I've seen others reporting similar kind and these range from April to October 2018 for 52,000 to 56,000 hours and we can see that the power 10,000 hours is approximately 1.14 years, so all these drives have been powered on for about 4.5 years. We're going to come back to the drive age after we've looked at the drive reliability and performance. Looking more into the SMART or so times so that kind of tells you around what they've been doing during that duty cycle. The main concerning error rates are all zero , and they all report a 100% helium level. if you want to learn more about this there's an interesting also link that below. We can also see that the workload on these drives is is a bit varied, two of them seem to be very write heavy, and two of them were pretty evenly balanced for read and writes. So the uses of these drives varies and it's going to depend on the purpose of the host that they had them installed in. Okay, so the disks start, they sound fine with no audible whining, vibration or knocking sounds and the smart stats don't reveal scan to look for bad sectors. The disks say that they come pre-scanned right. So if this is true, we shouldn't find any problems here, and for like, and I use it for a number of things. This runs a full test of the disk and this comes up clean as you can see. There are other tools that do this for example you can use chkdsk /r , and this can also be used to perform a full scan of the disks and you can see this here. Next I ran a full performance test for all these drives. And this involves about a thousand tests where we copy 12 GB of data to the drive using large sequential writes to fill up the disk, and then read all the files back off the disk again. So during this test the average write speed was about 194.5 MBps across the entire disk, with around a peak of 250 MB per second at the outer edge, down to about 120 MB per second for the inner tracks. The average time to run this test was 17 hours 35 minutes and 10 seconds so that's three of the disks performed identically but one of the disks was actually around 4% faster than the others and I don't see a reason why as they're Re-running the test on the faster Drive actually reproduced exactly the same results so this wasn't just a testing anomaly. The read test produced similar results and as usual the results for read are a bit more uniform than that of writes. The read test completed on average in 16 hours 44 minutes and 50 seconds with again a peak 120 MBps at the inner edge. The same disc from before achieving 260 MBps at the outer edge and 127 MBps at repeatable. These numbers also match up well to the data sheet for this drive which states that a typical maximum is about 255 megabytes per second So the performance curve also looks good for both these tests and there's no signs of any areas on the disk that ran into any issues so having checked the SMART stats performed a surface scan and performed extensive read /write testing across the entire disk it looks like the discs are sound. Right now at least, and at 40,000 hours per drive. So the next question is how much more life can I expect to get from this drive, and for this I turn to data from BackBlaze who record and share publicly extensive data around a large number of disks they run in their cloud backup platform. This data includes daily SMART data as all their disks down to daily resolution. And I have all this data loaded into a SQL database and its been massaged so I can run queries against it and the disk I have are reported as HUH721212ALE601s and I'm going to link below to the drive in question and this is an affiliate link from Amazon, commission; but this cost you nothing and Amazon links typically take you to the model, so although at this point it's highly likely to be a renewed drive it is possible the link take you to a new version of this drive from time to time. And that when you check it out so if we look at the data sheet, that rather painful part number breaks down to the following. It's a Western Digital Ultrastar Drive, it's helium filled, it's running at 7200 RPM spindle speed, with a maximum capacity model also being 12TBs. It's running a generation 'A' code, it's built in a 3 and 1/2 inch, 26.1 mm height physical form factor. This drive is configured with 512e sector size and the zero here is a reserved field and the one at the end here apparently means that it's a self- encrypted SAS Drive, which is a bit odd as this unit is certainly a SATA Drive. Okay, if we look at the BackBlaze data, they don't appear to use this exact model; but they do use three similar models all with all the stats of the drives being very similar. Save for two of those that either use instant erase or secure erase and one of the disks being a native 4Kn sector drive rather than a 512. But it's probably reasonable to say that these should be mechanically very similar and they're probably a reasonable comparison point. We can see that back Blaze has used 2,673 of the So that's a total of 27,600 or so drives, so this is a pretty good data set to look at. So if I graph out the annual failure rate for each of these drive models based on the drive age we can see that all the models follow a similar pattern. And this is consistent with the bath tub curve you might expect to see on AFR data for hard disks. So to be clear this data is based on the drive age and not the date, and this best represents how each model failure patterns look over time, regardless of of when it was installed. And this is typically more useful than looking at data based on date. Because when you slice the data based on date you, know you can't necessarily tell if a drive that failed on January 1st was brand new or 5 years old. what you can actually expect reliability wise, as the drive ages. And also to reiterate AFR data is statistical data across a large data set. It doesn't mean that a specific drive will fail or not fail, just a percentage chance that any given drive may fail in a given year. So all of these drives start out by suffering about a 2 to 2.5% failure rate initially and it's common to have higher earlier failures. This is caused by things like damage in transit, handling errors, manufacturing defects; these type of things. The AFR then settles to around half a percent give or take, and then for different models we see a start of an increase in failure rates later on. For the ALE600 drives they look to be holding steady on a course at about half a percent failure rates after 5 and half years. The ALN604 4K model sees a rising failure rate from about 3.5 up to 5.5 years where it hits 1.5%, but then stable at just under 1% after 4 years. So this is all the data that's currently available and it's current up to the latest available BackBlaze data that was released in June. That was all that was available at the time of this video, so we don't currently have data for these drives beyond around 6 years. However, I think it gives us a good indication when we see no current trend at least in increasing failure rates past these ages. Now we can combine this data as well we can look at the kind of holistic data of all of these DC520 model disks and this shows that the AFR for all these discs combined is stable at around 1.2% and And it shows that HGST drives do appear to last well, other data from old HGST drives also shows good rates past seven years. So, I have a video that covers AFR on a number of 10 terabyte plus hard disks, including ones from HGST, Western Digital, Seagate, Toshiba; and I'll also link that down below. So given my drives are 4 and a half years old they sit right here in the failure rate curve. Today I might expect them to have just under 1% chance of failure annually though these drives could of course fail at any time they could all fail today, or they could run for another eight years. It's a good indicator however that since I appear to have healthy drives I should probably expect a reasonable life out of them. At this point it's worth pointing out that you can also buy Seagate Exos 12 TB drives as renewed drives and they're typically very similarly priced on Amazon. It's hard to say the exact age on any given refurbished drive but I suspect that four to four and a half years is likely the place that they get decommission density units but as they have a 5-year warranty, I think it could just be that it's a good point to refresh them before the AFR starts to rise and the before the warranty expires at 5 years. So again BackBlaze data doesn't contain stats on the exact units on sale on Amazon however there are a number of 12 TB Seagate Exos units in the data and they vary from the X12 to the X16 model Because Seagate structure their Drive models slightly differently to Western Digital and HGST. So, if we look at the data from these 12 TB Exos units we can see that the newer the range the better they seem to perform from a reliability perspective; than the HGST drives and though the X12 Drive seems to have stabilized at 2.2% there may be signs that others could also stabilize, but the rates on the that Seagate drives don't seem to age quite as well. Also the NM0127 model I see on Amazon currently is likely an X12 model though it doesn't seem to be listed on the X12 data sheets. And the X12 does have historically a lower reliability than the newer models, so I don't dislike Seagate by the way and I run quite a few of their IronWolfs Ironwolf Pros, and Exos drives;and their failure rates are not hugely higher than HGST. But I would probably pick HGST up over the Exos at the same price point, for all the reasons I've kind of mentioned above. Okay, let's get to conclusions. But first please share, subscribe, like etc. You know the drill. It's a huge help for fueling the algorithm and helping me grow my small channel and honestly it's really genuinely appreciated. Share your experiences below also if you've bought these types of drives what your experiences are with them and especially if you've had the unfortunate opportunity to test the warranty coverage, which I'm going to mention in a second. Okay, so firstly the disclaimer that again your mileage may vary and it's possible that as the supplier varies for these drives and that the experience may also vary. However they are covered first of all by a 90-day replacement or refund policy from Amazon. And Amazon claim they're also tested cleaned and refurbished as necessary. Now I think the &quot;as necessary&quot; is a bit of a get out here and clearly my drives are not really refurbished or renewed as I would describe it. I would certainly describe them as in good condition and they came sealed and well packed. But I would say in short that they are second-hand. But they do appear to be in good order with a reasonable life on them and given what we see in the AFR data there's no reason to think that they are not tested. Mine passed all the tests just fine. Also when you add these to the basket you do get an option provided for a warranty it might be a natural thing I know for me at least, to just click say 'no' and click past this right. But this warranty appears to cover the devices for 4 years for a total cost of around $6.50 right and if the device fails you don't get a replacement but you do get a gift card to cover a replacement, and from my reading of the terms this would be for the purchase price of the drive I think this option significantly de-risks this at really quite a reasonable price so I chose this option for my four disks of course I have not tested this warranty and and hopefully I won't need to. And I am so naturally skeptical, but I did read the T&amp;Cs and I don't see any alarm bells in those T&amp;Cs and of course given the 90-day return policy I think the main thing to do even if it's a little painful is to check the smart stats on receipt in the ways I mentioned above and look for those key early failure indicators and then run a full surface scan of the disks. Depending on the capacity it may take a day per drive but it gives you the opportunity to return the drive if it doesn't look good. Don't buy the drive stick it in the drawer when you need it, because honestly, I would say the same thing for new drives as well. So in summary I think these are a great way to buy storage at a good price. The long-term life is going to be shorter but you're also paying in the region of around a third of the price in many cases; and you're still likely to get many years drives in the past that have been running for 9 or 10 years. If you pick up the warranty you can get the money back if you don't get that life out of them. So I hope this provides you of an insight into both what you might get on these renewed drives but also how to test and validate these drives when you get them. So hit those likes, thank you for watching and I will see you in the next.