- With Android, we're as fast as we can and really integrate all of Probably the most important And this is gonna be a big evolution of our assistant capability. - [Joanna] Not another an AI assistant is gonna change the world, except this isn't just any tech exec. Rick Osterloh oversees Chrome and hardware products. And this isn't just any voice assistant. - [Gemini] Hello, there. It's always nice to connect. How can I help you today? - Well, I'm in a conversation with Joanna Stern from What do you think she's gonna ask me? - [Gemini] That's really cool. Joanna Stern is a great interviewer. - Oh, yeah. - [Gemini] What kind of questions - Gemini Live is impressive and not only because of On Tuesday Google announced all with Gemini Live and Gemini Live is also gonna be available on all Android phones, but are we really gonna And is Google pitching us on I went to Google to see some of the tech in Can you do a thumbs up? All right, good. I stepped on your toe. If there was a dictionary definition of AI phones, what would it say? - It's a phone that's and the way that you interact with it is through the AI primarily. You're just able to like you would with a person. - [Joanna] Gemini Live takes a big step towards doing exactly that. It will begin to take the place of Google Assistant on the new Pixels. - We've focused a lot on system so you can have this quick dialogue and it feels like a natural conversation. We also made it possible to interrupt it. - Are you there? - I have this big interview coming up soon and I'm a little nervous. Any tips? - [Gemini] That makes sense? Interviews can definitely Do you have a specific part of the interview that worries you? Like the questions or something else? - And the ability to I wanna make something that's healthy. It needs protein, some vegetables, salad. What would you make? Actually-- - I wanna change my mind? - I wanna change my mind about something. I wanna also add a carb. - [Gemini] No problem. You could add some sweet potatoes to that salmon and asparagus. Or maybe some brown rice to the stir fry. - But it's not perfect. Can you just set a timer? - [Gemini] So I can't when we're live. - What do you know about Rick Osterloh? - [Gemini] So are you talking the singer and songwriter, - Apple Siri and OpenAI's ChatGPT have similar advanced voice but if you have an Android phone, the Gemini app and the you can get this right now. It's also on all the new Pixel phones, including the Pixel 9 Pro Fold and the coming Pixel Buds Pro 2. Is this the future? All of us just walking around talking to our AI assistants? - I think it's certainly that people do interact with AI and that's why we design to be wearable all day, and also to be able to go live right away. - Sounds a lot like a - [Samantha] I wanna learn - [Theodore] I love the - There seems to be this like with recreating the movie &quot;Her&quot;. Yet people seem to forget which wasn't great for the human. - Yeah, I mean that's Our goal, we wanna make AI We wanna make sure that it's - So you don't necessarily - I don't think that's a good idea. - Another AI trick, adding someone to a photo. Instead of handing a the phone uses augmented Then you snap a photo of one person. - Ready, Joanna? You swap spots. hand it to you. Can you do a thumbs up on your... Very good. Then it stitches the person into the shot. That is real good. - I guess he didn't feel A lot of these use AI to to take the better photo, but in some ways it also changes reality. - I don't think it really changes reality. What I mean, what we're trying to do is give users a a range of tools from capturing the moment to being able to edit that moment later and store the memory how they want. And so this is no would take photographs in the past and then edit it using Photoshop. - Are you ever just like and you're like, is that real? - I think a lot of people have especially in the area of social media where people are sharing things And so you know it is a complicated world, but we're trying to just serve our users and figure out what they want. - There's another Pixel only AI tool. Call notes. You can call, say your sister and... - [Sister] Hello? - [Announcer] Google call notes is on. The call is recording. - [Sister] Why are you recording me? - [Joanna] The AI will transcribe - [Sister] This is very good for you because there are so many things that I tell you that I in that brain of yours. So let's do it. What do you wanna know? - I'm wondering when your next trip to New Jersey's gonna be. - [Sister] November 16th through that Friday after Thanksgiving. - The AI summarization captured that. Though not as specifically but it didn't quite get my - [Niece] Why did the - Why did the hot dog cross the road? I don't know. Why? - [Niece] Because to get to his car. - Google summarized that crossed the road, which well, yeah. Osterloh said all the happens on the device using the Pixel's powerful tensor G4 chip. Are you using personal and other Google LLMs? - So no, we're not using personal data to train LLMs. Like we are using information that users have given us or that is from the public web. - To confirm, my phone calls, my emails, my calendar appointments, those are not being used to train? - Those are not being used - [Joanna] Osterloh is confident that these Gemini Android features are better than what iPhone owners are gonna get with Apple Intelligence. - Because we're a trusted provider to so many users with a combination of this personal information and this information from the web, we think we can deliver that no one else can. Being able to understand but marrying that information with like how long it might take to get which is information that is really important. - Apple has said that on what LLM you tap. So they're starting Is Google and talks with Apple to do that? - I've really focused on However, it's certainly the case that we want Gemini to be everywhere, so no doubt we'll be and other platforms just to make sure everyone can have access to Gemini. - But even though these Pixel phones rival the best iPhone or Google's own devices only have 3% of US smartphone market share and not even 1% globally. Is there any doubt about into a small fraction of the market? - No, I mean for us it's very important. It's how we help build the platform. The pixel phones represent in our AI research capabilities brought to our users - [Joanna] Osterloh's vision isn't just AI in phones and earbuds. At Google's developers conference in May, it showed glasses. The built-in AI could see the world and answer questions about it, think Google Glass, but cool and useful. - We've been working on and we've never stopped working on them. But what's really important is that we are going to keep working on this technology until So no doubt, sometime we'll see something like - But before we get there, Google may need to and how it convinces Recently the company ran a - [Dad] So Gemini help my telling Sydney how inspiring she is. - Google pulled the spot after backlash. The message for many was that AI is gonna come in and take away this personal relationship, right? You see this father turn to AI instead of then working with his daughter on writing this note. Seems a little tone deaf. - I think clearly the market isn't fully ready to embrace all the changes that come with AI, but on the other hand, I'd also say like it's a really powerful tool. And so just like in the past, like my parents would get upset at me if I didn't write handwritten And today I write them an email, I can do 10 times more emails than handwritten thank you notes. And I feel like over time people will come to adopt technologies that help them get more done and be more productive and in this case touch more people. And I think that's what we were trying to get to with the ad. I think maybe we missed the mark with it. - Hey, maybe the moral of the story is just to make a phone call with a Pixel. What's going on? - [Sister] It's 7:00 - Is there any food that you think I should start getting ready for you? - [Sister] No.