[Kibo has a present for Lucas!] Looks good [Shower together! Sweet routine!] Come Introducing a new member of our family! Hello Good morning, it's a cloudy day Then My mood is cloudy too Plus someone is using his hand... Stop What are you doing? I just touch my babe, isn't ok? Can you stop touching my waist? For real... damn I didn't touch your waist Keeping touching it? I'm telling you if you keep doing this, I'll wear my pants I said my mood is similar to this weather Cloudy... Are you serious? You do this to me every morning What's wrong? Can you Do something interesting? For example, morning... We liked it a lot before Damn What? Ah... Haven't brushed your teeth yet I don't wanna play with you anymore Are you keeping doing it? Move your hands No Move out Right, like that I want to tell you a thing Umm? Not sure if you remember I thought it was really weird Last night Around midnight I feel like something came into my mouth And I was sleeping in a daze at that time Can you say that? What's that? No, I haven't finished You think I can say it? How is it possible if it is that? Do you know what's that? Your hand His finger Like this Came into my mouth and stir it Did you stir cement? No Did you dream yesterday that you were mixing cement? I may remember something I was really... No, but... A little I mean, I don't know how to describe it pretty comfy Comfy? I don't know why Wow, I respect I respect How did you feel? I had no feelings I mean not feelings You woke me up I was in a daze And I felt something into my mouth And I woke up and saw it Then, it was his finger in my mouth, like Like this Were you awake? Of course Crazy action But I was out of energy, you know I slept very well Then I could only turn my head in frustration And continue to sleep I don't have awareness at that time So annoying Didn't let me sleep well Subconscious, right? So, your hand... Damn Damn I'm going out Get up I have a gift for you today What? But you have to take off that first Take off what? What are you doing? What are you doing? Why are you sos shy? Because you are filming I don't show it So, I have a gift for you Filming crazy stuff? What gift? Is it you? You will know it Is it you? Take it off, you'll know it after you take it off This is so weird Not weird Not hug me Hold on Come Are you hinting at me something? No Are you Enough I'm telling you that I don't have energy Is that exciting? Made me sweat You take it off Listen to me You bought me a new underwear? It's not fun if you guess it, you should... You take off my underwear And I can't get it, am I a piggy? What if not? It's over there on your bedside table I don't use that, what is that? You know it You'll know it after you wear it I'll go to wash, and you... Are you serious? You remember to wear it Why don't you wear it? Is this yours? No, this is yours So beautiful Are you serious? You bought me this? Right This is a kid underwear No, this is the cartoon style Looks good I never had this style before So you should try different styles Let me see This underwear made me so shy No, looks great Then, I won't get up today Too embarrassed to get up What? What? Get up? Time to rinse Dang Time to rinse Husband finished and it's time for my wife Like it? Did you do it on purpose? This is more fluffy Made a nest on my head Birds can lay eggs on my head So weird Where? Looks great, are you serious? Where is weird? Are you sure? Yes I think it looks great for sure Ah, my hair is loss Compensate me Compensate me one hair How to compensate? What do you want? You want to pull mine out? Compensate like that? Is there any other way? No I can give you other stuff I don't wanna it I'm not satisfied with it I think it's ok No I need the same shape as yours I didn't do well on mine Look, isn't it curled up? You made it up It was great I'm going to wash it again You don't need to No Introducing a new member in our family today Guess who is? New member You guess who is? This is We have A baby! We have a... New baby And she She is in our home now The only girl Kibo: You know? Lucas: The only girl Yes She is our... We have so many boys in our home So many boys And she is The only girl in our home A sweet girl Why does she look dumb? She is shy Good girl Her name is Let us explain it first All the names in our house are named after food So, her name is Tangtang(Means sugar) Because Kibo gave this name So cute Good girl Tangtang We still love our Tuanzi and Baozi Look, this is their new cat tree This is better than previous one Bought for them Tuanzi, you look You look very fat in this way Tuanzi Tuanzi [Become our &quot;Love And Big Support&quot; channel membership to show your nickname right on the top!] Tangtang is there too It has four spots They can sleep wherever they want Sleep wherever they want Baozi still like his sofa a lot It's his king seat, what do you mean sofa? Thank you Meng Meng Hai Kui Er for being our sponsor! Thank you[Become our &quot;Sponsor Lucas and Kibo&quot;, we'll shout-out your nickname right here!]