It is one of the hippest ski resorts and the craziest on the planet. In Austria, in Apls heart , Ischgl. A village of 1500 inhabitants and ski lift nightclubs. Here, there are on every street corner. Twenty-five in total and even fire-breathers. Ischgl 2018, welcome and make some noise. Germans, Belgians, French, English, Partygoers from all over the world Starting at 16:00, the city center During the six months of winter, Jean-Philippe is a regular. With his friends, this Alsatian Ten years ago, there was no one but us, and in recent years, there have been Here, all extravagances are allowed. Like wearing a folk costume This is what has attracted Christophe This Belgian, CEO of a transport company, comes several times a season and he gives it his all. I love it here. This time, Christophe arrived like him, very well off. Together, they chartered for a crazy week. To be the kings of the party, like ordering ten ice buckets, but not to drink them. Just for fifteen minutes of good fun. How many bottles were there? Over 50. How much does that cost? We always say: "When you go on vacation, The small loser still cost nearly EUR6,000. A waste that may seem shocking, I didn't even drink champagne. Like Christophe, there are nearly to celebrate in this small village. A great feat, because 20 years ago, this Austria part was completely unknown. Today, she is famous all over the world for his crazy evenings. There are estimated to be more than For everyone, snow does not have In the war, ski resorts are waging war, two became famous all over the world, one for its wildest parties the station that never sleeps. The other for its very exclusive side, It's the chicest and the most secret. With its sumptuous chalets costing These billionaires on their 31 and its luxury shops on every corner. It is the refuge of the stars, A universe that is unreachable Ischgl, Gstaad, for three months, and behind the scenes at these In Ischgl, you will find out bring a fortune to Gunther, brings international stars People are having a good time It's the secret of our business. We will also follow Leon and his friends. The five French people are planning On the program, an after-ski bar, It's going too fast. On the other side of the Alps, in Gstaad, How do the ultra-rich are they spending their vacations? Answer with Thanks to his title he became the darling of billionaires. You will see that he knows Do you prefer diamonds? I knew it. Gstaad is also one the most famous on the planet, Camilla from Bourbon the Two Sicilies. Accompanied by her husband, between dream chalets and palaces, The princess is about How did these stations become the hippest and the most select on the planet? What are their recipes Five-star chalets and palaces, Between the exuberant Ischglet travel to the hippest ski resorts on the planet. In the heart of the Swiss Alps, The most exclusive winter sports resort and the most secret in the world. A small village known and celebrities for whom, They kept lots of Christmas light. Camilla, the princess has just arrived from Monaco and her two daughters, Maria Carolina, Like every year, the rich Italian heiress Who decided to give himself a dream week rediscover this sumptuous decor, In the street of statues, made Very original. It's made of marble. Look how the cottage is decorated. In the center of the village, dozens of luxury shops. A paradise to shop The princess mainly came It's the other specificity Most vacationers belong the wealthiest and they know each other. Hi, I love the color of your dress. Delighted to meet you. To the left of Camilla, the sixth fortune former boss of Formula 1. He was the one who managed We no longer see you in Monaco. You have no reason to come anymore. Now you're still on vacation, that's true. Next to them, an international jet star, the Chinese billionaire famous Lovers of the resort, he comes every year with his wife Deborah, Look how beautiful she is. They're local friends. It's a magical village, It's having lunch with Bernie Ecclestone. We're fighting for the addition Between the three of them, their wealth Elsewhere, these unusual characters would probably be chased But in Gstaad, no one bothers them almost like ordinary people. You really are very classy. I'm not dressed up enough. You look like Barbies. Thank you. I'll call you back very soon. OK, bye. Bye. Everyone's finding themselves we can't really miss each other. It's like that every winter, nestled at an altitude brings together all the celebrities Johnny Hallydayy owned The filmmaker lives in Gstaad French-Polish Roman Polanski. Madonna, the actress Salma Hayek or members of the princely family They all put their bags here, but not necessarily for skiing. Camilla hates that. I think it's a wonderful, magical sport, certainly spectacular, I never learned to ski and I'm not ashamed You have to learn when you are young. My sister and I prefer the skating rink. In winter, we skate. The princess is not alone in this case. It's in this luxurious hotel, That the Chinese billionaire Stephen Hung planned to spend five dream days. He booked the most beautiful suite, 160 square meters, great comfort. For this, they pay EUR9,500 per night. However, he has no intention My wife and I don't ski. Gstaad is one of the best places It is magical. We go to other ski resorts in the world, in Europe or in the United States. Yet every time we come back here, it feels like you're in a fairytale world. The castle, the atmosphere, It's really different. Plus, we have lots of friends here They're all here in winter Famous the world over Switzerland has always attracted But the love story between them over 100 years ago and we owe it to the construction imagined as a fairytale castle, the Gstaad Palace. Gstaad Palace, hello, Here, the smallest suite Even at that price, billionaires are going out This success is the pride of For him, every year, the same challenge, satisfy the most demanding customers Andreas, don't leave the cart He proudly displays photos in the entrance hall Because they are the ones who have made Here, my grandfather. In fact, it was my grandfather He understood that Liza Minelli, Amireille and Mathieu, And that they're doing a concert, especially from Europe. At the time there was less television, So people were moving around. I met Elizabeth Taylor, Madonna, even Margaret Thatcher, for example. Yes, it was almost a small part and today in my life. The hotel has also served as a refuge during the Second World War. For it was in these basements I'm showing you here. This bunker was protected Through a concrete slab five meters above which is the lobby terrace today. Here below there were two floors protected with two doors like that, there was an entrance on the other side. That's where they brought, a large part of the Swiss Gold Reserve to hide it in the mountains. It is a source of pride. There are still direct telephone lines Today, the bunker and Andreas has The village has more than forty hotels, including five-five stars. So, at the start of the season, The battle is over to prepare This morning,Vittorio,the vice-director, Hi Veronica, how are you? Is everything all right? Is the room ready? Almost. OK, I'm going to check the other room and I'll be back here later, thanks. Michael Jackson slept in a suite like this 80 square meters that Vittorio must pamper A spacious room, a lounge area, an alpine style dining room with the added bonus An XXL dressing room If you can clean it all up, here as well. These are the details All customers must be received like a king or like a queen. Come on, let's go. The vice director doesn't think because the establishment must receive a member of the European aristocracy. On the other side of the village, in the center of Gstaad, at the station, The hotel driver is about to welcome him with honors due to his rank. Hello Jose. You are nice as ever. Thank you, I am greeted by the snow. Thank you. Is the car there? -Yes. Prince Charles-Henri de Lobkowicz of the last king of France, Charles X. Owner of three castles in France, this globetrotter spends but not just for fun. Ambassador of a major jewelry brand, he must organize The most beautiful jewelry There are the biggest customers It is good to try to bring them new collections To put all the odds on his side, Charles Henry will organize A place where the prince Good day to you, thank you Roger. Hi, how are you? How are you? Oh how nice. Hello good morning! Happy to be here... under the snow. That's nice as well, thank you. It's a bit like home here. I've been coming for a long time and it's not the house, but look at the kindness of the people. It's going to be a busy week, Charles-Henri must launch to people who are likely for a single ring. Good morning. For this, there is no need The prince's great strength Now,I have one of our important customers and we are really limited, Often, they are extremely busy people that have done business, The week they go on vacation, Gstaad is the perfect place for that. For Charles-Henri, which promises to be full of surprises. 300 kilometers away,in Austria,in Ischgl, It is this atmosphere Here, you don't have to be a billionaire All the madness is within reach. Come on, here we are! On the other hand, we leave everything that is ski boots. Originally from Leon and his four friends with an idea in mind, having the craziest week of their lives. We're not the type to calculate, but we'll say A seller of agricultural equipment, If he chose Ischgl, The five young people booked an apartment in this small hotel, 70 square meters, with two large double rooms A kitchen equipped A small living room and as a bonus, a beautiful terrace. Is there life here or not? Comfort is basic, but in total, the five friends or EUR300 per person. Financial level, it's more interesting. Last year I was on French stations where the budget for the same service, but we're a third higher. Come on, let's go. With the money saved, the five friends intend Especially Joe, At 25, this electrician dreams or more, if affinities. Not just an Austrian woman, I don't mind. My technique is dance. And to achieve these ends, His friends left him the extra beds One bed for me, and another Joe did you find anyone? He can take an Austrian woman with him. Joe is hoping to beat up his friends. Before getting caught up Off to the ski slopes. In Ischgl, the package is EUR250 per week. It's the same price as Except that here, like this latest cable car equipped We are lucky to be in a station In everything that is reassembled or in cabins like that, What Leon and his friends are particularly fond of, These heated benches are very useful in That's what the band really likes, It's to heat your buttocks a little bit. It's said in a slightly trivial way, but it's a luxury that all skiers That's what makes Ischgl so successful. To be very competitive The most party-loving resort Over the last ten years, Ischgl Let's go The resort's other treasure with XXL tracks. For the five friends, She's great, she likes it. To celebrate this first day the five boys can't resist it. It's custom, a stop at one altitude of the ski area. After the effort, the comfort. It's the start of the second day. It's only 16:00 and a good hundred skiers are toasting. It's the ressort other other attraction Here, prices defy all competition. On average, consumption It's less than EUR5 per half-liter. In France, we will be at EUR10 for... I'm talking about French stations In Ischgl this week At this rate, some consumers and overflows are common. Unfortunately So inevitably trackers, I think, they are used to picking up a few. We're going to avoid being a part of it. With altitude, the effects and skiers are losing control. When leaving the bar, Leon and his friends prefer to set foot Because tonight, they intend Every day, the city center of Ischgl An atmosphere the resort is famous for and that we owe to a fearsome businessman When will everything be in place? Not for 20 minutes. Like every evening, in its establishments. At 70, this visionary had the idea of transforming this small He copied the recipes Several years ago, I had the idea with folk costumes on the bar. The customers liked it a lot. We also play good music It's a really different concept. Result, look, It's full every day. In high season, sonbar welcomes and its daily revenue amounts A real cash machine. To make even more numbers, As a good businessman, it uses formidable commercial techniques. Hi, how are you doing? You looked great! Oh thanks! All these gogos dancers come Gunther only pays them A low salary for Austria. But thanks to the tips, they can earn up to EUR4,000 per month. A small fortune in their origin country. Dominika, 26, has been working here For her, it's a bargain. Here in Austria, it's better paid than Three times as much, Depends, every day is different. Thanks to these management techniques, Gunther is now at the head of an empire. In addition to this bar, It has three other clubs and the two Establishments that have nothing With spa, dream pool and upscale suites which are rented up to EUR1,700 per night. Is everything complete? Yes, it's full. Let me check. Yes, it is complete. Okay, that's great, thanks. We are full. A great feat for this son of a farmer We had nothing like everyone else here. We had one cow, two goats, It's all we had at the time. Today, Gunther manages his ambition is limitless. To become number one in Europe, transform your station It's the future only the future. It's a new concept. I would like to put penguins That would be really great. families, kids, they would love it. That's an artistic project that explode and that transform That's a big eight ten kilometers long. From the top of the mountain giant roller coaster, a track painted red or a snowpark with the buxom shapes Projects that may seem far-fetched, He has already done A giant concert unique in the world, at the top of the slopes, Robbie Williams, Elton John, Mariah Careyou the star of Pink pop In ski gear, all these stars performed on this stage facing 20,000 spectators. This year, the millionaire hopes with another celebrity, Helene Fischer. With over 12 million records sold, It is number one in Germany. It's full, everything is booked. Tomorrow, there will be more than and spend a lot of money. Before declaring victory, there is set up a stage worthy of Over 100 tons of equipment to be airlifted from the valley. The weather conditions are always the most difficult. Like today, it is windy and a bit of snow. It's a real challenge. The coming and going of helicopters and for the thirty technicians in charge, the start of a long battle On the other side of the Alps, Especially not a giant concert no outdoor parties. Here, the cult of secrecy reigns. To spend a dream vacation away Large fortunes are ready to treat yourself to sumptuous chalets. In Gstaad, the price per square meter It is the most expensive ski Good morning. This morning, Charles-Henride Lobkowicz with a real estate agent to visit one Because the prince regularly wears That is the case today. He must find a cottage for a rich client. Will he find the rare pearl? Does this one have a pool? Yes. -Great. She's looking for at least six rooms, and if possible a swimming pool. Is that doable here? We find many things and quite exceptional. Monica, the real estate agent, who is looking for the owner. It is sold for 15 million euros. It's beautiful, it's good, but here, in Gstaad, This four-story cottage Inside, the comfort The main room is this living room, with a fully equipped kitchen. Cosy and spacious. The light is superb. Upstairs, six bedrooms, of 30 square meters. This is the bathroom. That's the servants' room. The height of luxury. As it's often case one room is reserved for staff. It's important to have that are well installed. They have their own kitchen, that's good. Is there still staff here? It's almost always staffed. You have to run a house like that. Icing on the cake, a private life to serve all four floors and the house's hidden treasure. Wow fun. This spectacular spa Hammam on one side and sauna on the other and the ultimate. If I understand correctly, Yes, that's it. I like that The spa can even be transformed It is an incredible comfort. The house keeps all of its promises. There are very beautiful places, it's rarer on the market. Perfect. Thank you so much Charles-Henri only has to make his report to his millionaire friend. For celebrities, But the resort is not all luxury A few kilometers away, The Princess of Bourbon des Deux-Siciles, She asked her private secretary to organize a surprise for his daughters. Have we arrived, Mr. Hermann? -Yes. A day on the farm. Hi Willy. How are you? Hi Willy, is everything all right? Thank you for welcoming us. It is a pleasure. Especially for girls, it's nice. You show us. Where is it? Is it there? Wow. It's great! Good morning sir! Good morning. They are the other stars of the village. In Gstaad, there are nearly 7,000 cows, This farmer owns about 50. rare privilege, will have the right A first for the princely family. I'm going to try. Yes, of course. Nothing at the moment. Yes, yes, please. Slowly, don't hurt him. Look at that, it's very, very hot. I am very proud. I can tell you when or cornflakes in the morning, Extraordinary. Do you know she's a princess? No -That's not important. We have a lot of princesses here. It's the turn of Camilla organized this excursion inculcate simple values in them, at the antipodes of the life Are you happy? Were you going to do that one day or not? No, really, I wasn't thinking about it. Maybe become a farmer? I don't know at the moment, I don't think so. Thank you for your welcome. Goodbye cows! The two princesses were enchanted Goodbye later. They should not forget it anytime soon. Their vacations have only just begun and their mother prepared other surprises Further down the valley, Short social events, In Gstaad, there are them every night. For the prince, these receptions and a golden opportunity to the party he organizes in a few days. Hi, how are you doing? Are you alright? I am glad to see. This gallery is among exhibits the works of the most prestigious This evening, Patricia, the owner, with works by Jeff Koons, one of the most famous American artists What marvellous things First, Jeff Koons. How many Koons coins do you have? This one is an original room Well done! How much are you selling it for? The gallery owner prefers to remain would be worth over one million euros. A fortune, but Patricia is not worried. In Gstaad, it is sure to find a buyer. He looks like lots of friend dogs. Gstaad is the place in Switzerland Whether they are ancient art collections, of contemporary art, of modern art, in the chalet in Gstaad. We're going to catch you. Hello. -Hello, how are you? Charles-Henri has not lost sight but tonight, no big fish. Luckily, the prince has spotted that could be useful to him. On the 17th, I'm having a small cocktail with Caroline. No kidding? Are you coming? Baccarat room. Her friend is in the art world. So even if she doesn't buy jewelry, For the prince, the marathon continues. He has less than 24 hours left to attract and succeed in its promotional evening In Ischgl in Austria, Leon After spending all day on the ski slopes, Alsatian tourists go Joe, the single member of the gang, It is only 18 and the atmosphere Here, it's like that every night. It's tradition. After skiing, no matter what time of day Of course, it's already a party, the partygoers hadn't time to change. So inevitably, in ski boots, Choreography is not always very academic. Ski boots are for dancing here. It's like sneakers or street shoes. Even in ski boots, It's Joe, the bachelor in the band. Dance is his major asset for flirting and he would like to meet. Have you spotted anyone? It's going to come. We would all be happy In addition, If he can find someone, Joe makes a first attempt, but obviously, his dance moves do not have Nothing to discourage the single person Second attempt and second failure. This time the young woman came Are you in trouble? It's more complicated than I thought. Most of the girls here It's harder to date, I'm going to find her. Unfortunately, it won't be tonight. After several failed attempts, The five friends decide to refresh Who is all the rage in the station: on a unique toboggan track in the world, Seven kilometers. In minutes, how much is that? Depends on you. If you are quick, there is If you are slow 30 or 40 minutes. After a very rainy start to the evening, Leon and friends take the risk anyway. Our death machine, However, the danger is very real, because there are no brakes. To stop, you have to use your feet. 3-2-1, let's go. Let's go for seven kilometers of descent at more than 40 kilometers/h, avoid fracture. At this altitude, over 2,000 meters, It is -15 degrees and the slope is steep. Partygoers are blinded It's foggy, I can't see anything. It's going too fast, too fast. In these extreme conditions, It's Nico, the surfer in the band, who first loses control of his sled. Before being hit head-on by Leon. Nico, are you okay? Sorry. We just crashed there. Nico couldn't control his sled and to avoid jumping into the ravine, He fell right in front of me, Finally, more fear than harm, but the five friends are not Attention! After 20 minutes of descent Leon approaches I am fed up, I want to go home. I can't take it anymore. I want to go back to the apartment. Luckily for Leon, the ordeal A final effort and it's the arrival. We did it. You might think sledding but it's worse than a black track. Plus, I have snow on my back, In the gloves, I am an ice cube. Even transformed into a snowman, but he was very scared. So for tonight, the acrobatics are over. The five boys go home to rest to be able to enjoy the end For Joe, the bachelor, there are to find a soul mate. In Gstaad, Princess Camillane but today, she too will have With her husband, Prince Charles, she organized a vertiginous walk on one of the highest peaks We're going to the top of the mountain, So it's summit vacation. The view is magnificent, Above all, you should not have vertigo. Oh my gosh, I don't like that. Oh no. Look down. There is total emptiness. I think dad's going to be a bit scared. I think it's worse than me. Camilla doesn't think saying that well. At the top of the mountain, the must-see attraction A 100-meter-long footbridge A unique construction in the world, which makes tourists happy every day. But Camilla isn't really The view is magnificent. Cross the bridge where you think It amuses me a lot less. Yes, but I don't want to go. No, no! Go on, please. I'm holding your hand No, no! Go on, take mom! Don't put yourself too Advance. No, no! Each step is a real challenge. Camilla's girls don't work things out. When you look down,since there're mountains. Don't get too close, stay here, How are you, Camille? It's okay, it could get better. What is very annoying is that it moves. Ouch, ouch, ouch! At the end of the bridge.. Aah! We have arrived. .. the reward: An exceptional panorama. It was so cool, it was beautiful. Did you like it? -It was great. There are other surprises. After these strong emotions, a dog sled ride. Maria Carolina and Maria Chiaraen So, to please his daughters, this pack of ten dogs. Who wants to start? Come, gladly. Maria Karolina is in the first round. Passionate about animals, The secret is' go 'to tell them to leave. Go. Top start for a walk worthy on a track specially groomed It's magnificent... It's now, it's time to drive. Let's go both of them. It's even better standing than sitting. Simple fun for some, but an extraordinary moment A breath of fresh air, far from I am excited. It's like being part of a movie. I feel a bit like in the movies lost in the wild, with the dogs Next step is skiing. No It was a good try, Charles did succeed in his bet anyway, Organize unusual holidays that they will not soon forget. Further down in the valley, There is one who would also Thanks, good evening. Prince Charles Henri. It's good, it's very very good. It's tonight that his reception takes place at the Gstaad Palace. Good evening gentlemen. 150 hand-picked guests So, last briefing before kick-off. Good evening gentlemen. We start in half an hour. The limit is half past 10. I think it's going Good evening You photograph people as soon It is important that they are seen In these windows, Unique pieces that can be worth up like this necklace and its emerald. The prince hopes to dazzle all of Gstaad. There are all prices. There are classic jewels for young girls and very important pieces Twenty o'clock, the first guests Bankers, industrialists, The entire jet set As a good ambassador, Charles-Henri has A seduction operation and the image of the brand. Have you seen the new collection? It's really beautiful. Look, the bracelet is beautiful. This young woman and her husband, are under the spell. Charles-Henri feels Look, it's beautiful. I really like everything here. Do you like diamonds? I like these earrings. OK, I'm going to tell your husband. I have good news and bad news. She picked something. I'm going to take a picture. OK Take a photo, it's your next gift. The prince has succeeded in his bet. But in this very cozy There's no question Were there sales, When you have a party, It is also about helping them The primary goal is to welcome and we try to welcome them Charles-Henri won't say more, Because tonight, Make this a promotional evening an event that matters The next morning, across the border, Ischgl, the most festive is also preparing to experience the event of the season. The mega concert, organized once Bring together 25,000 spectators, It was the bet of Gunther, the organizer. This morning, it's a veritable human tide that squeezes high up the mountain. Luc came specially to attend the event. He has just traveled 500 kilometers and to be there, So, with his friends from Alsace, I don't know what paradise looks like yet, but in my opinion, In Europe, this place is unique. 2500 meters away, you won't see it anywhere else. If another place existed, The setting is magnificent. We are lucky, the weather is nice. To mark the season, He gave himself a superstar. Here is the one that all the spectators Helene Fischer. Be careful, it slips. It's an ultra-popular star [Foreign language]. For an hour and a half, she went on Refrains that may not tell you anything, but here, the public knows them by heart. For Luc and his friends, In the middle of 25,000 spectators, The French group does not go unnoticed. The party will continue further down Tonight, the bars in the city center A great financial success is For Leon and his friends, The five friends are delighted except for one detail. Luckily, on the last night, We've run out of everything, Even if they leave with empty pockets, young Alsatians regret nothing. Once again, Ischgla lived up In 20 years, the small resort has been able to forge an identity Today it's the empire of the party.