After the evacuation, that's what was left of the glove. Yes, it's almost intact. And this one is almost intact. You can still work with them. Wash them and it will be fine. Listen, &quot;Kamrad&quot;, I think they are shooting at here, it seems to me. I have a lot to remember, nothing to share with the kids. So far, this has been the most epic moment of my war in this ***** forest. Plus, plus. I'm a big fan of anything that explodes. So you could have seen a photo where I'm holding a tamponade on &quot;Jeb &quot; and 120 mm shells are blowing overhead... Bam! Big logs were blown away. Yeah... It was a good time then. Caption: &quot;OSA&quot;. What was it like to be alone during the assault? I am 21 years old, call sign &quot;Osa&quot;, my name is Oleksandr. I'm from Kirovohrad region, Novomyrhorod district, Kapitanivka village. I was studying to become a military paramedic. I had classes on tacmed, and we went to the training ground. I mean, everything was as close to combat as possible. When the full-scale war started, I studied to become a doctor. I was improving my qualifications. I couldn`t stay home. I realized that my professionalism would have a bigger advantage in combat conditions than people who had just taken the MARCH courses. That is good, of course, but when you know which drugs you can mix and inject and it will save a person, it is much better. Caption: How did you end up going to war? In general, as soon as I joined... I just went to the local Territorial Defense at first, and stayed there for a month, as a volunteer. They could not enlist me because I was only 18 years old when I came to them. I went to the military commissar almost every day and said: &quot;Give me a weapon, what if... Should I throw syringes at them?&quot;. And based on this, I told him: &quot;That's it, we're done, goodbye. When you can recruit me, you have my number, call and write&quot;. As a result, I have been in the Donetsk region for four months. I went to a place where there was a connection, turned on the phone, and my mother called me. She said: &quot;Do you want to hear a joke?&quot;. I said: &quot;What?&quot;. She said: &quot;You have already received four draft notices to the village council. If you don't report to the military commissariat by the fourth, there will be courts.&quot; That's how I started my service. Caption: How did you join Azov? At the beginning of the full-scale invasion, when Azovstal was already under a complete blockade, we were going to gather in Zaporizhzhia. It was planned that we would be the group that would try to de-blockade Mariupol. A very funny fact is that I filled out a questionnaire, they called me back, and after a short conversation, the girl said to me: &quot;Do you realize that this is a one-way ticket?&quot;. I simply said: &quot;I need two&quot;. She said: &quot;We need people like that&quot;. And with that, we agreed that I would come to Zaporizhzhia and get in touch. Caption: To the attention of everyone on the de-blockade of Mariupol I realized that it was... In the best case scenario, I would just fly to Mariupol, fly by helicopter for the last time, fly to Mariupol, see Mariupol and die. Or I won't even make it there. But by the time we all got together, it didn't work out with the de-blockade. We went to the Donetsk region. The guys said that there was a website somewhere called azov.org.ua, something like that. But, to be honest, I just saw it: &quot;De-blockade of Mariupol, one-way ticket&quot; and all that stuff. And I didn't bother. And then everyone was like: &quot;Yeah, 3057 is Azov, that's cool&quot;. Caption: What were your deployments prior to the Kreminna area? In general, those combat ones are just &quot;chill&quot;. It was my specialty, so it was mostly very few &quot;three hundredths&quot; [wounded]. And as such, tactical medical care was not very relevant there. You just had to go to the front line and deliver pills to the guys because they were sick, someone's back was hurt. That is, pure therapy. At Tokmachka, our company had two or three light &quot;three hundred&quot; in total. My main area of expertise as a tactical medic came in handy here. In the first two months, we were well welcomed here. Caption: How did you get injured? I was the head of the position at the time. The one who was on the observing position called me: I had to go to a meeting, the command called me. I came out of the dugout, got up to my full height, walked 3-4 meters, and literally a meter from the parapet an 82-mm mine exploded. It hit me in the face. In the hospital, they took out two sand grains of shrapnel, but the main large fragment that cut me, it flew right past. I just took out a gauze napkin, applied it, held it for a while, then covered it with reinforced tape and went to the evacuation. I was lightly wounded, but with the range of the mine... I was in the hospital later, when I was lying down, thinking: &quot;Yeah, it could have hit me...&quot;. My helmet even fell off. It was not fastened. I came out of the dugout and left without fastening it, because I had to go to a meeting. And even my helmet came off. It was a chance to die. But I don't know whether it was a guardian angel or my fallen comrades protecting me... In short, I don't know how, but I have enough fortune. At least for now, as this sector has shown, it is enough. And then we'll see. Maybe at some point it will end. Anything is possible. As the saying goes, it depends on how the mine falls. Caption: What positions have you held in the army? During my two years of service, I was the deputy chief medical officer of the battalion, I transferred as a company medic to the infantry because I was bored with sitting around with papers. Then I was a platoon medic. I had the opportunity to take part in a normal infantry battle. Because even the position of a company medic does not allow me to go as an infantryman to the positions. And while I was a platoon medic, I was making a fuss, running around. I would shoot with an RPG... Well, in short, I was having fun. &quot;Osa&quot;, hurry up the guys. Anyway, I just have a simple logic about this: depending on whether you shoot at the f***rs or not, they will shoot at you anyway. Why sit and suffer, when you can run out, shoot at them, in the &quot;gray zone&quot;, maybe kill someone, maybe wound them. We are here to destroy them. Why not do it more often? Right on the trench. Watch out. Caption: Should a medic be able to carry a weapon on the same level as an infantryman? My father told me, before I was about to leave for Zaporizhzhia, that everything you can learn so that you can at least load the weapon and start firing, you should learn everything. Because at some point it could save your life. And it actually does. Well, for everything I could get my hands on, yes. All types of pistols that Azov currently has, all types of small arms: AK-system, AR-system, PKM, I fired from a Browning I fired from an 82-mm mortar, I fired from an RPG. Disposable RPG-18 &quot;Mukhas&quot;, like these hanging here, like an American &quot;Bullspike&quot; -- I don't know the name of this one correctly, but I can shoot it. This is a foreign RPG-22 &quot;Mukha&quot;. It is the post-Soviet countries that produce them. And we have the same ones. Only here, the descriptions are in other languages, while ours are in Russian. There are no problems shooting with all of these. It's fun to shoot anything when you're shooting towards the enemy or a target. But when it flies at you, no matter what it is, even if it's a 5.45, a small bullet, it's unpleasant to hear it fly by and whistle. But in general, I can work with any weapon that I come across. Caption: Your most incredible story from the war It was the tenth day of our rotation. Everyone is f***ing exhausted. Basically, the morning started with me coming out of my position and gasping because it snowed 10 centimeters, all the camouflage nets were on the ground. You just walk once and you can see your path as you go. People started walking, in groups of 5, 10 people, trampling on a million trails. I went to the strongpoint and talked to the battalion medical care commander there. He then set up a small medical outpost there. Then I returned to my position, from which I was supposed to start evacuating in case of emergency, and watched the assault begin. That's it, men. F**king do it. Come on, &quot;Shulya&quot;, work. I'm second. Basically, everything is as usual. The artillery started working. Then the guys moved. Everything according to the tactics. Yes, shoot! And then they radio in: &quot;We have wounded.&quot; [Voice over radio] Roger, roger. We're on! Let's go, let's go! Without waiting for either the status or the call sign, I understood the approximate location of the &quot;three hundred&quot; [wounded]. I immediately moved to the front line as soon as I heard on the radio that there was a &quot;three hundred&quot;. When I got to the front line, I found out that they were not in position, they were in the &quot;gray zone&quot;. I just jumped out of the trench and ran to them to pull them in or provide assistance on the spot. I saw that the blood stain under the wounded man was growing. I clamped my hands as tightly as I could to gain some time and asked the soldier to put on a tourniquet. He put up the barrier, we took him by the shoulders and dragged him into the trench. And there, in fact, I began to provide assistance professionally and to the maximum extent possible at this stage of the evacuation. Caption: Video shot on the wounded man's action camera, which remained on his equipment in the trench. Then, of course, when the guys went into the &quot;gray zone&quot; to the Russian positions, the artillery started to hit. Starting from the strongpoint to the front line, the &quot;gray zone&quot; was covered with artillery. Where is my rifle? In the evening, when I was leaving the position, I was amazed at the density of the enemy's artillery fire. When I entered the position, everything was white. Perfectly white snow that had just fallen. And when I was returning from the position... First of all, a lot of new trees fell. I knew the path and was returning back along it. Secondly, there was almost no white snow anymore. Everything was covered in ashes, sand, and blood. That was the situation. There was no area that was not hit. It hit everywhere. Guys, come on, we have to take him away. I started shooting back, and I realized that I was the only one shooting back at the position. Then, when I walked around the entire position, I realized that I was the only one on it. And that was it. I radioed in and said: &quot;I need three 'pencils' [rocket granades] with a 'pipe' for an RPG&quot;. I had charges, but no pipe. &quot;Take more ammo with you,&quot; and that was it. I identified three firing positions in the trench where I could work and set up my rifles. And I would just run with loaded magazines, insert them, work out 2-3 magazines and change my position so that the f***ers could not... Is there anything you want? Do you have a pill? What kind? From headache. Of course I have one. Here, take these two first. If it doesn't work, you can take this one. Do you feel sick? No, not really. Well, we'll be in touch. Plus. That's it. ***-17 on the line. ***-17, ***-17, work on 11/3, 11/3. Please work hard. Plus, plus. I switch from single to bursts and just start firing bursts magazine by magazine. By radio interceptions -- there was a squad of us there. And a squad is, roughly speaking, 10-12 people. Plus, I'm doing it. Mortars are firing, AGS, a tank rolled out to the right. I heard enemy MLRS fire. I think: &quot;It's probably will hit somewhere in the rear, on the evacuation groups. And then the first &quot;Grad&quot; rocket burst falls 60 meters from my position. I realize that the &quot;Grads&quot; will continue to hit further and further. I just fall down in the trench, crouch down, and about five meters away the next one explodes. It feels like the air was sucked out of my lungs. It's just like, &quot;Phew&quot;. That was an interesting time back then. You have something to remember, nothing to tell your children. On the line. Over. There's a group coming up to you. Plus. I created smoke, took the plate carriers of both of them. The guys pulled up. The infantry who were supposed to be on duty at that position. We were on rotation that morning. The assault group came in, temporarily held the position, and then went to attack. There were two infantrymen in reserve, but they left during the evacuation. I was the only one left. And then the same group, after evacuating the wounded, came back and they took over the duty. Continuing to fire. So far, this has been the most epic episode of my war in this f****n forest. Caption: What is more important to you: career development or the opportunity to stay in the infantry? I feel more comfortable sitting in a position, having some firefights. I like it better than just sitting in the control room, watching live broadcasts and answering the radio when someone transmits something. During these 10 days that I was at the control point... It's good that there were no &quot;three hundredths&quot; [wounded], but I was bored. I got on an ATV and went to the drone guys, then delivered provisions to the guys. So far, this was the only leisure time I had in these 10 days: riding an ATV through the... roughly speaking, the off-road. Caption: What are your ambitions in the military? Of course I have ambitions. I just don't see myself in civilian medicine. I worked in an ambulance for a year. But as long as there is a war, I would like to stay in the infantry, because I have experience, I have a medical degree. At this moment, at this stage of my life, I believe that this knowledge and what I can do is needed in the infantry. And for me, the more restless it is, the better. I feel more comfortable when a tank is f***ing firing at me. I'm more focused at that moment, I'm faster. I just do everything perfectly due to the release of a large amount of adrenaline. I just do things perfectly under shellings. So far, the infantry is the top. I don`t want to leave the infantry. Go to the infantry everybody. Caption: What does war mean to you? I don't have any romantic thoughts ... Many of the young people who come from the combat training center, when they get to the first combat, they realize that they are not infantrymen. Because they have watched beautiful videos on the Internet, where your comrades do not die, no one is &quot;three hundred&quot;, I mean... War is sweat, dirt, blood, shit. And you are covered in all of this. That is how I see war. These are difficult conditions around you, in which you try to survive. Your main task is to survive and not to give up your position. To continue the war on our territory... We have to drive them out, but it's very difficult. There are a lot of them, they have a lot of weapons. And when people say that it's possible to go to Crimea in the summer... What did you do to go to Crimea in the summer? If the war had continued the way it was at the beginning of Russia's full-scale invasion, there would have been much fewer casualties and much more territory recaptured. Everyone does not have to be an infantryman, an assault pilot, a space marine. Not everyone has it in them. The army is not just infantry. I strongly remember the words of one of the commanders who said that for one infantryman on the front line, there are 8 soldiers working in the rear, i.e. support. And it is true, if not more. There are a million positions that you can hold in the army, helping to win the war without ever firing a gun. And your contribution will be enormous. Caption: What shaped your worldview? The village, the guys... It's such a blast. Since childhood, I wanted to become a doctor, to help people. In the ninth grade, I entered the Cherkasy Medical Academy. I loved and still love medical classes. I love doing what I do at this stage of life, at the previous stage of life, when I was still a civilian. Come on, bro. Give me 1,000 Tranex for a 20 ml syringe. 1000... Just give me a 20 ml syringe. 20 milligrams of Ketamine, Tranex 1000. Wait, wait. Cover up. We'll throw another one on top. The outbreak of war had a big impact. It was 2014. My father went to war in late 2014 or early 2015. And I was 12 years old at the time. I just watched how he thought, how he expressed his opinion, what he did. I always looked up to him as an example. But at that moment I realized: no matter what, if it's war, it's war to the last drop of blood. Plus, plus. It's okay, let's go. Let's fly. Caption: How does your work in civilian life differ from your military specialty? passing it on and, so to speak, forgetting it. But this is how it worked in civilian life. You don't come to a person you know, you just provide assistance, pass it on to the department and forget. That's it. You just go to the next call. And here you live with people for a certain period of time, get to know them, become friends. Basically, we all share the same opinion and outlook on life. And you just feel a brotherly soul in this person. And then, at one point, they say on the radio that someone is &quot;three hundred&quot; [wounded]. You arrive, and there is a very mutilated body. No matter what you do, no matter how professionally and as much medical care as possible you provide, he still dies. For some time, you torment yourself with the fact that you did something wrong somewhere, did not finish something. But after some time of self-analysis and self-flagellation, you realize that there were injuries incompatible with life. You just extended the time until he died. Back when I was studying, my surgery teacher told me: &quot;Every doctor has his or her own cemetery&quot;. But when my very close brothers-in-arms die, it's really hard. For example, we have the last &quot;two hundredth&quot; [dead], &quot;Neo&quot;... We lived in this room together almost from the beginning of the deployment. Before that, we lived in another room. Since the assembly point, since the training ground. He was such a tiger. Yeah, I miss &quot;Neo&quot;. But you come to the room... When you leave, I will move to your room. I can't. I go in, I look there. He's gone... That's it. I'm like: &quot;Sanity, goodbye&quot;. Of course, it's a little bit easier now, but f**k... And I decided for myself that I had to fight even harder, try to kill as many f***ers as possible. If there is some kind of afterlife, and sooner or later I will meet him again and say: &quot;I killed so many f****rs for you.&quot; And he's like: &quot;Specialist, thank you&quot;. Caption: What would you say to people watching this video? I don't know. Go fight, donate more. And maybe we will finally visit Crimea in the summer, if everyone unites like in the first days of the war and helps the military, becomes a soldier themselves. Maybe this will speed up... Well, it can't, but it will speed up our victory. That's all we have to say. Go to the infantry. The infantry is the top. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you as well. Okay, I'm waiting for the link to the video. Oh, a prank yesterday. I'm pulling a camouflage net near the &quot;three&quot;. I'm standing on top, with my back to the f****rs, pulling the net. Then I hear the grenade launcher coming out, and I turn around. Somewhere in the crowns, it breaks between the &quot;eighteen&quot; and the &quot;three&quot;. I stand there, look further, right to where the launch was. I see another one. I even saw the flash clearly. I shout to &quot;Bombas&quot;: &quot;Give me two VOGs and a &quot;Fort&quot; [granade launcher]. He brings it to me. And I put two VOGs there. The whole night was silent. At least the grenade launcher was no longer firing. And yesterday I almost shot down friendly drone.