- Welcome to the Huberman Lab Podcast, where we discuss science and science-based tools for everyday life. [upbeat music] I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a Professor of at Stanford School of Medicine. Today, we're talking all about goals and the science of goal setting There's a tremendous amount of information on the internet and in books and so forth, about how to set goals and assess your progress towards goals and update your goals and so forth. In fact, there are so that includes so many different acronyms that it can be a little bit overwhelming. Today's conversation about goals, is going to be quite a bit different. Indeed, we are going to We are also going to talk towards goals. And we are going to talk However, we're going to do all of this in the context of neuroscience, because it turns out that there or even several neural that control goal setting and There is one and while it includes many that one circuit is the same circuit, that's responsible for pursuing all goals. And it relates to some very that are understood. So while there's a wealth about goals and goal setting and goal achievement and so forth, there's comparatively little information that's been available to the public about the neuroscience of goal So that's what we're I promise that we're going we're going to touch on a and how the neuroscience in the psychology literature. And we are going to four specific protocols that goal assessment and goal regardless of what your Before we dive into our and goal setting and goal achievement, I'd like to highlight some that I think are going to be interesting and actionable for many of you out there. In earlier podcasts, we which is the brain's ability to change in response to experience. In fact, neuroplasticity whether or not it's language or math or a physical skill, all forms of learning of connections in the nervous system, the brain and spinal cord and body. One of the key principles is this notion of making toward neuroplasticity. It is a little bit counterintuitive, but what the scientific is that whenever we're trying if we make an error, we but that state of frustration, actually queues up particular so that on subsequent we have a heightened level of focus and a higher probability regardless of what that skill is. And I've talked about this as encouraging people to not as their own end goal, but errors as an entry point for making the brain more plastic. And if you think about why would the brain change at all, if it's performing everything perfectly? When you make errors, well and minutes after those errors, you are in a better position to learn. A common question I get, however, of errors? Which is really just a way of saying, how hard should the given task be that you're trying to learn or perform? And it turns out there's an answer. There's a recent paper that was published in a great journal, This is a paper, our last and the paper is entitled, &quot;The Eighty Five Percent This paper, we will in the show note captions, but basically what this paper shows, is that when trying to you want to make the difficulty of what you're trying to learn, such that, you are getting things That you're making errors And the reason I like this paper, is it really points that we can implement because people always say, okay, You want to try and achieve but you don't want to that you don't make any progress at all. Other people say, you really want to start with really small goals and make things very, very incremental. Only set out to do things that and that will feed back on positive feedback loops. And then, you know, layer you'll eventually get Well, it turns out that neither is true you need to set the level of difficulty, such that you're making And I want to emphasize because there's no way to or language or math or anything else, where you're going to So, anyway, this paper, the again, we will supply the link, but it really points to the idea of making things pretty hard, but not so hard that you're or even half of the attempts. Failing about 15% of the time Hopefully that information that are trying to learn something. Hopefully it will also that are teaching kids or other adults. If you're teaching, keep in mind that you want for higher and higher in whatever that is that you're teaching. And that 15% of the time if it gets to 20%, that's probably okay. If they start failing about half the time, then probably what they're for them at that point. Now, of course, this is going of external factors, like whether or not they whether or not you slept and you're being clear to them, et cetera. But I think the 15% is a good metric to aim for and it can serve both In other words, it can and those that are learning. Before we begin, I'd like to is separate from my teaching It is however, part of to bring zero cost to consumer and science related tools In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the Our first sponsor is LMNT, LMNT is an electrolyte drink and nothing you don't. That means lots of salt, some other electrolytes and no sugar. As I've mentioned before on this podcast and in various interviews, I sort of discovered this a few years ago, when &quot;Science Magazine&quot;, one of the pre-eminent that publishes research on science, but also news articles about science, talked about the myth of salt research. It turns out, that contrary which was that salt is or that salt is really bad for us. There's an innate need and indeed, if you dive into we have entire biological and fluid management, et cetera, that are involved in making In fact, neurons, nerve cells, function because salt, sodium actually and that's what causes them The common syllable or a when we are low in sodium, our neurons don't work as well. And a few years later, I had the experience of and I thought I had blood sugar issues. I went and got my blood sugar And a physician made the recommendation, that I actually up my salt intake. My intake wasn't particularly but I quickly found, was that if I consumed enough salt, usually I would do this in the form of putting a little pinch adding a little lemon juice or salting my food a little bit more. That I lost any kind of that my mental functioning was better, my sports performance So it was really interesting by increasing my salt intake, something that's really counterintuitive, to a lot of what's out there. Salt isn't just important it's important for blood volume and working alongside the and potassium, it ensures that cells in And I think we're starting in the perception of what salt and the other electrolytes do. And really seeing magnesium, which is one of the and especially salt, as not but in fact something to embrace, provided that they're used properly. LMNT is formulated to help anyone, reach their electrolyte needs and is particularly well-suited low carb or paleo diet. For people following a low carb diet or doing intermittent fasting, what many people don't know, is that carbohydrate holds water. It actually brings water into the system and you don't want your that's one form of dehydration.. Salt holds water as well, meaning it keeps the water in your system, which is beneficial for LMNT contains a science-backed of 1000 milligrams, 200 milligrams of potassium And they use the very best and magnesium that are out there. So the way I use LMNT, is I into about 16 to 30 ounces and drink that first thing in the morning when I wake up or around breakfast time, I kind of sip on it through the morning or if I'm really thirsty, And then I always make sure with an LMNT packet in it, Sometimes it's during the exercise, if I'm running, I'll I'll hydrate with it before and after, if it's a really hot day. If you'd like to try LMNT, you can go to drinklmnt, that's L-M-N-T.com/huberman, to claim a free element sample pack. You only cover the cost of shipping, otherwise it's completely free. Again, that's drinklmnt.com/huberman to claim a free sample pack. Today's episode is also brought Athletic Greens is an probiotic drink. I've been taking Athletic so I'm delighted that they're The reason I started and the reason I still is that it covers all of mineral, probiotic needs. We of course need vitamins. We of course need minerals and we do need a healthy gut microbiome and probiotics, support There is now a wealth of quality showing that the microbiota, meaning the little microbes are good for us. And our gut when it functions properly, communicates with our brain and our brain communicates with our gut through the so-called, gut-brain axis. And that gut-brain axis, is vital for things like immune system, endocrine system, meaning hormones and for mood and overall brain function. With Athletic Greens, I get my vitamins, my minerals and the probiotics I need, to support a healthy gut without having to worry of other things. In fact, when people ask me, what's the one supplement I should take, that's going to make me feel better? I always say Athletic Greens because indeed it makes me feel better and it happens to taste terrific. I drink it twice a day, typically, I'll have one in the morning, I mix it with water and a little And I'll typically have or late afternoon, again, mixed with water, If you'd like to try Athletic Greens, you can go to athleticgreens.com/huberman, to claim a special offer. They'll give you five free travel packs, that make it really easy while you're in the car or Plus, they'll give you a year Many of us are deficient in vitamin D3 and even for those of us that are getting sufficient sunshine, many of us still need to Vitamin D3 is involved in brain function, hormones, et cetera. It has so many important functions, and K2 has been shown to be important for a variety of things, not the least, which is So again, if you go to you can claim a special offer. They'll give you five free travel packs, plus a year supply of vitamin D3 + K2. Again, that's athleticgreens.com/huberman, to claim this special offer. Today's episode is also ROKA makes eyeglasses and sunglasses, that have the absolute highest quality. I spent a lifetime working on the science of the visual system and I can tell you that your from your eyes to your brain, includes a ton of different mechanisms, so that as you move through you can see things clearly. And even if it's bright or it's really dim outside, that your visual system to resolve what's out there in the world, so you can see things clearly. Many people need corrective Other people, they need or just simply need sunglasses because if it's too bright, One problem with a lot of eyeglasses and sunglasses out there, however, is they don't take into account, the nuanced biology, the visual system. You may have experienced this. Have you ever put on a pair of sunglasses that aren't so great? You move from a really bright and you have to take the eyeglasses off, your eyes just don't seem to adjust. With ROKA, eyeglasses and sunglasses, everything they've done to is with the science of So you can move seamlessly from and you always see things Their sunglasses and because they can be used for anything. They have a terrific aesthetic, to work to dinner, et And, they're also designed you can use them while if you get sweaty, they They're extremely lightweight, in fact, I often forget that I wear readers at night and I wear sunglasses when and I need sunglasses. If you want to try ROKA you can go to roka.com That's R-O-K-A.com and to save 20% off your first order. Again, that's ROKA, R-O-K-A.com and enter the Let's talk about the the biology and neuroscience Setting and achieving goals, is not a uniquely human endeavor. Other animals set and a honeybee attempts to collect honey and bring it back to the hive. A herbivore will go out and will also have a need to reproduce at some point in its life. So, will need to find a mate depending on what species that is. Predators will have to hunt and they have to avoid getting They also have to raise young, et cetera. So humans are among the other animals, or we could say the animals are among us in the need to set goals and to make efforts to Now, why do I emphasize The reason I emphasize this is that it turns out that by which all animals, including humans, set and attempt to achieve goals. Now humans are unique in our toward immediate goals, meaning things that might or a month or even a year and very long-term goals, or a goal that lasts a decade, or it takes a decade to achieve. That's what makes us unique. And of course we don't or the thinking or the but what we do know is that, meaning brain areas, that are present in animal are responsible for orienting toward particular goals. Another thing that's really is that we are able to have at once. So, for instance, we probably goals in relationships of and romantic partnerships as well as maybe scholastic goals. Maybe you're in school or you're pursuing some of the school environment or indoor, you have business we are able to have And other animals do this, but humans are unique in the ability to juggle a lot of goals. And actually one of the major is that goal pursuit often interacts, meaning if you can spend 100% of your time chasing one particular goal, that might be very but then we tend to fall back You can imagine how this plays out. If you're working very, very hard, you're solely focused on business often, your health will suffer. If you're solely focused other things will suffer. And so we have to juggle and our goal pursuits. And so today, we're going of different ways, to work with what could these interleaving goals, by focusing on a common practice that are present in all What is that process? Well, it turns out, it's a neural circuit. A neural circuit, is simply that when active in a to a particular behavior or perception. So for instance, when you feel happy, it's not because you have a brain area, that's the happy brain area, Rather, it's going to being active in concert In the same way, that the played in the appropriate sequence, represent a particular song. You would never say that one key on the piano represents that song, but that key is necessary. Similarly, in the brain, we can say that a brain but not sufficient to give or generate a particular behavior. So when we think about goal of any kind in the brain, it doesn't matter what the goal is. It involves a common and the neural circuit toward today. And we will return to it a few times, involves learning a couple of names, but you don't have to worry so Just more important is of how it's put together and I will explain that If you want to learn One of the brain areas is The amygdala is most often so you might say, wow, how is that involved in Well, a lot of our goal directed behavior, is to avoid punishments, including things like or things of that sort. And so the amygdala and some is actually built in to the circuits that generate goal seeking and our motivation to pursuit goals. The other areas are the The striatum is part of what's The basal ganglia, is a neural circuit, that can very simply be that helps us generate go, and no-go, the prevention Let me make that even simpler. The ventral striatum is the basal ganglia. The basal ganglia has sort One circuit is involved in like I'm going to get up tomorrow and I'm going to run five miles I don't know if I'm but I'm just using that as an example. Another circuit within the basal ganglia, is a no-go circuit, it's I'm not going to go for the second cookie or the third cookie. I'm not going to eat that. And then the go circuit would for instead eating something else. Okay, so we have go and no-go circuits within the basal ganglia. So we've got amygdala, so what you think of as and avoidance. We've got, the basal ganglia, which are for initiating And then there is the so-called, cortex. The cortex is the outer and there are two sub that are involved in One is the lateral prefrontal cortex, prefrontal cortex is involved in, so-called, executive function, Thinking about things so not just what we want but what we might want and how our actions currently to the future. And the so-called, orbitofrontal cortex, orbitofrontal cortex has a but one of the key functions it's involved in meshing some emotionality with our current state of progress and comparing that emotionality when we are closer to a goal. So, there are basically four areas, one involved in anxiety, one involved in planning and another involved in So that's a bunch of detail, but if I wanted to make it I would say there are four areas. One is an area associated it's the amygdala. The second is involved remember go, and no-go, so The other one is involved across different timescales, so that's lateral prefrontal cortex. And then the fourth one, is where we sit emotionally present, compared to where we think when we reach some particular goal and that's the orbitofrontal cortex. Again, you don't need You don't need to know all the details, just understand that those in the decision-making toward particular goals and have us update our One key thing is it doesn't the same circuits are involved. So whether or not you're that's a billion dollar company that's going to go public, or you're thinking about with the kids or for yourself, or you're thinking about Goals, goal seeking and all involve the exact It's really remarkable. It's also very convenient What's going on in these circuits, can basically be boiled down The first is, value information, trying to understand whether or not, something is really worth pursuing or not. So, placing a value on a particular goal. The other component of is associated with action, which actions to take and given the value of a particular goal in a given moments time. I want to say that again. The other component of the whether or not you should based on your assessment at a particular moment in time. And you're going to hear in this episode, the value information Here's why, there is basically or rather neuromodulator system, that governs our goal and goal pursuit. And that is the neuromodulator dopamine. Dopamine is the common currency by which we assess our progress toward particular things In fact, dopamine, is the of our pursuits. And so, as we take a moment to the psychology of goal setting. The things that you've probably about what sorts of goals and how to categorize goals. I want you to think about how dopamine, could possibly be involved And the reason I want you to do this, is that all of the and goal pursuit, is wonderful because it places things It allows us to parse our thinking and organize our thinking. But what's not often seen, in fact, I'm not aware of scientific or literature or in popular books, is an understanding of how can be layered on top of the to allow us to set and pursue And that's what we're going to do today. We are eventually going to arrive at a set of four practices, that when performed on a regular basis, will allow you to assess, what is the value of this How worthwhile is it, to do in order to achieve a particular goal? If any of this is vague now, I'm going to make it You're going to come away of takeaways that you can put And that you can use to and execute goals more effectively, using the neuroscience of and an understanding of the Let's take a look at the and goal pursuit. This is an enormous literature, meaning there are tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands about the topic of goal There's also a lot of about goal pursuit. And in looking over this information, one comes to appreciate pretty quickly, that acronyms are a big thing. Acronyms, seem to dominate especially as it relates to but also in the relationship sector. Now, acronyms are wonderful, they allow us to organize and conceptually they can be very useful. But as I moved through this literature, I started to see some redundant themes. And so what I've attempted to do, is distill out the redundant themes, that regardless of the person teaching or the scientific laboratory with these acronyms, that they boil down to So let's talk about that literature and I think we'll come of some basic elements that Now, the modern science or the of trying to understand actually dates back to the 1930s. And we have to be sure that were focused on goal long before the scientific It just stands to reason that, since the human brain we don't think, in the last 10,000 years, that people would be They just didn't get that we could evaluate but now we can, so we can look at those papers. And what you find is in the psychology literature about goal setting and goal pursuit. So for instance, you'll of Larkin Small, for instance, these are the last names The so-called, ABC method, that it should be believable, and that the person be committed. It's sort of obvious once you Then people came along they talked about the SMART being another acronym, that the goal be measurable, that the goal be attainable, that the goal be realistic meaning that you set up in which a given goal should be performed. And then people come this is the way that I'm not laughing at it. I'm just chuckling because, it seems like the acronyms get They developed the, SMARTER approach, adding an ER to the acronym, They added ethical and are good things I believe, What does all this mean? Well, what it means is that any kind of goal setting, really has to involve a and neural circuits in the brain and body, at least that's how I Why would I do that? Well, let's think about of the kind of acronyms that dating back to the 1930s and You can find beautiful talks online from people who have worked with some of the biggest companies and greatest high performers out there, to achieve incredible things. And they will talk about generating a sort of objective mindset for goal setting. They'll talk about goals That it has to be a big goal. so you have to be able to It has to be action-oriented, has to be inspirational, has to be time-bound. You have to have reasonable, You have to constantly up the ante. If it's starting to sound repetitive, it's because it is repetitive. There are basically only to goal setting and goal pursuit. Basically, an individual has to identify a specific thing that they're going to attain. In some communities, they talk about, knowing what right looks like, meaning being able to You can't just say, I want You have to say what sport, and you have to understand So any big goal of course, is broken up into a but the whole thing starts with thinking about the end in mind. And in a few minutes, we will talk about, whether or not visualization is actually beneficial or There's actually great on that now. So, I mentioned all these acronyms, not as an attempt to disparage them. I think they're wonderful. And I mentioned all that not in an attempt to disparage it, but rather just say that, goal assessment of whether or towards those goals is the And then there's the And that brings us back to remember, this neural circuit, involving those four things earlier, the amygdala, striatum, and the prefrontal cortex. They work together, to divide the whole process into two general categories. The first is, assessing value, knowing whether or not where relates to some external thing. Are things going well And knowing how to gauge that accurately. And then, action steps, goes and no goes, do more of this, do less of that, do this, don't do that, et cetera. So, now we are going to shift and we're going to talk about of the information I just described. Because I've given you a lot of kind of academic information. And as we do this, I'd what are some things that or that you'd like to Because as we do this, we can build toward a set of protocols, that at the end, you'll be your particular goals and a that's grounded in the science. That I think are going in allowing you to reach and with indeed less effort. In fact, let's start with a tool now because as we move through I want to make sure that with some practical things And indeed, some things during the course of listening The first thing to do, is between peripersonal space Peripersonal space, is that's within inside your body, the surface of your skin and Peripersonal space, is a because you have and particular chemicals, that are geared toward, what are called consummatory using things and consuming that are in your immediate Let me give you an example just to make it concrete. You can imagine similar Within my current peripersonal my understanding or perception So, how quickly I'm the feelings on the surface But also, within the confines is this coffee mug, that if you're listening to but I'm lifting up a coffee mug, I'm going to take a sip of coffee. That's a consummatory I don't have to do much or I have other things here, So things in your peripersonal space and consuming those things, is generally governed by that center around the And there are a few others as well, things like oxytocin, Contrast that, with the Extrapersonal space is everything beyond the confines of my reach. It would be something in the next room. It will be something down the street. It will be something in space and time. And the neuromodulators that are associated with anything in the extra personal space, are distinct from the that are involved in thinking towards the peripersonal space. And the molecule that's most or orienting toward the again, things beyond or your skin, is dopamine. And this is a vitally important when you're setting If we are to be good at goal seeking, if we are to be good at setting if we are to achieve our goals, we have to be able to between a clear understanding what we have and how we feel And our ability to in the extra personal space and our ability to move into And a simple way to conceive of all this, is that we evaluate our progress We evaluate how we feel, even if we haven't How we feel about a particular goal, is truly a feeling that we even though the goal is in the future. If we are going to we made progress today that's an evaluation of how we feel in the immediate peripersonal space. However, moving toward any goal, involves orienting our thinking towards the extra personal space. And as we go through today's episode, I'm going to teach you a technique or rather a neuroscience-based tool, that will allow you to continually between the peripersonal space in a way that will allow and better execute your goal seeking. The whole principle behind like other animals, about whether or not they However, the important is that humans in particular can do this over different timescales. We don't just pursue food we pursue food, excuse that we might be having We can modulate the timescale in a way that other animals don't. That's how we adjust our goal seeking, to different timescales. And in addition to that, humans are exquisitely good toward particular goals over But there are a lot of mistakes out there, in fact, things that are and in particular, in the internet, and then the kind of wellness and fitness and cognitive fitness space, that send people down the wrong path and those things we will But things like visualization, and visualization of this big goal, is the best way to achieve your goals. In fact, that's not the case, there's a much approach to doing all this. So now I'd like to shift gears towards talking about a few of the things, that most people get badly wrong in setting and assessing This is based on peer reviewed research, so I think it's very solid. I know it is very solid. And it runs counter to what Let's start with a simple one. We've all heard that multitasking is bad. We've heard multitasking is If you want to achieve anything, if you want to accomplish Well, it turns out, that's wrong. It turns out that there is but the multitasking has to within your goal seeking behavior in order to be effective. Really nice studies done at and the Davis Lab, evaluated how long in different environments. How long they were able to stay And it turns out that It turns out that most people, whether or not they're doing computer work or whether or not they're doing writing or accounting work or can hold their attention for before they shift their attention off. And that's ridiculously but, that probably reflects a That hearkens back to a time I doubt that we were maintaining and hours and hours, unless we were under or in some particular crisis. Rather, you could imagine and nuts and berries and then probably stood up, looked around and then kept going. Or that they were hunting animals or in some sort of pursuit, and focused, focused, focused and every three minutes or and, you know, take a look at the sky or looked around to make sure or not there, et cetera. It all stands to reason Again, the neural circuits Now, multitasking, has been shown to have a very interesting when we multitask, when we jump back and there is an increase in the also sometimes called a neuromodulator, but basically same thing There's an increase in the which is adrenaline. And so, there are really nice studies now, pointing the fact that doing to jumping into some focused, whether or not it's mental can actually be useful because it gets us into action. So we've all been told that but if you, for instance, find yourself cleaning up your house and also checking your phone right at the point where you or do some focused work. It probably reflects where you use action and somewhat in order to generate because adrenaline just Now, that's great, but, you don't want to multitask throughout any kind of goal seeking or goal pursuit behavior. Because, what's also very clear and we're going to talk about is that visual focus and in particular contracting bringing the aperture of what can absolutely increase and the likelihood that I've talked about this a little as a way of increasing focus I've talked about a practice, whereby you can literally placed on a wall or on your for 30 to 60 seconds, and then moving into some dedicated work, where you need to focus. And indeed, just looking at a narrow piece of the visual world, a small for some period of time and forcing yourself to hold as best you can, can increase your level and your ability to And this is not magic. It is the consequence of the fact, that most of your cognition For those of you that are meaning you're blind, or my lab does a lot of work with people, who are low vision, no vision. They tend to use their as a way to anchor their But most people out there and visual focus is the way to do that. Now, earlier, we were of peripersonal space And I'm just going to seed a little bit of the later conversation by saying, that when we focus on an external point. We are in a process of exteroception, is the focus on the extra personal space, not the peripersonal space. So when we focus on something, for 30 to 60 seconds or at our computer for 30 to 60 seconds and just look at it and then move into any kind of action, whether or not it's work We are at its very core. We are engaging in this pursuit We are placing our focus outside our body and therefore we are placing the brain into goal pursuit mode. Work at NYU, in particular, of a phenomenal researcher in by the name of Emily Emily Balcetis, has done They've done is, they've had, people focus their visual attention on a goal line of some sort and then to engage in that requires a lot of effort. And they've done a lot of but I'll just explain one. They always include a control group, where people have to go through or mental effort, but they don't focus their The long and short of when people have to focus their like a goal line, they are much more effective and they achieve them with the perception, that they expended less effort. I'll give you an example of from the Balcetis Lab. So this particular study Although, as I mentioned before, they've done similar studies And what they did is they exercise, wearing 15 pound ankle weights, and they had to basically or run a certain distance One group was focused on the goal line, visually focused, on the goal line. The other group was not on the goal line. And what they found, was on the goal line, was able with 17% less effort. They measured effort and That's a remarkable difference. So same distance traveled, because everyone's wearing on their ankles. One group is simply the other group is not told simply by looking at the goal line, does something to the psychology and end physiology of these people, that allows them to move forward with less perceived effort That's remarkable. And in this case, they're but in a few moments, we'll talk about how one can so incremental goal line. Starting with an intermediate goal, and then extending the goal But just sit back for a just by changing where a person looks, they changed their perceived effort and their ability to do more quickly, than a group that their visual attention on one location. That's incredible. And it's so incredible, well, how could that possibly be? Well, it turns out, it underlying physiological reason and that has to do with changes in our so-called, The aspects of our nervous system, that prepare us for readiness and action, or that prepare us for So what is special about at a given location? Well, it turns out that of our visual system. So visual information all but then it can head down One pathway is engaged to a common point, what we call, a vergence eye movement. So if we're focusing very regardless of how far away our visual system engages neural circuits that are and that can evaluate small changes over small periods of time. Just think of it as a very detailed camera of the visual world. It tends to be very restricted. The other pathway through is the so-called, magnocellular pathway. And this is a pathway that's involved in taking in global information that are happening around us. Movement of things to our right, movement of things to our left, things are happening down on And that pathway involves a of the neural circuits that are associated with alertness and attention. When you walk down the street and you're not thinking about much, provided you're not looking at your phone, you're not focusing on one location, you're more or less in a relaxed state, compared to when you're you're looking for a bus or a particular person. And that should inherently make sense, when your level of attention there's sort of a small, but perceptible increase It's not really stress necessarily, but arousal of alertness. And it turns out that the visual system, accomplishes this increase with your circulatory system and the system that and oxygen to the rest of So let's talk for a second on a particular location does because in this study what they found was, focusing to move more effectively toward that goal. This is something you can of all goal pursuits. What happens when we focus Believe it or not, there's an increase in of our blood pressure. Now your body has, of course, arteries, veins and capillaries, and your heart pumps blood, and then to the other components And we have so-called, blood pressure. Blood pressure is just how much, the fluid volume is veins and capillaries. So you can imagine a pipe through it, that's low pressure. You have a pipe with a lot that's even more pressure. You have a pipe with a lot very kind of sticky, thick that's even more pressure. We have blood pressure and you've probably had your There's always two numbers. You have a top number, which And then there's the bottom which is the diastolic pressure. So the important thing to understand, is that your blood pressure because there's more fluid that are your arteries or And that top number is called the systole or the systolic blood pressure, because that's the pressure at the time, when your heart contracts. So the top number, which normally, if you have a healthy blood pressure, is somewhere in the range of mercury. Millimeters of that pressure is measured. That top number, your systole, or your systolic blood pressure, is what's measured when So, that's the amount of and it's moving through your vasculature. Now, between beats, the your blood pressure is going because fluid isn't being at those moments. And that's the bottom, And typically for healthy people, that's going to be 60 to So you might hear about a normal again, this is an What that means is, at the point where blood was your arteries and veins, boom, that it's 120 millimeters of mercury, but then, when the heart before the next beat, then it drops to 80. So there's high pressure, low pressure, high pressure, low pressure. The fluid is being pumped Now, why am I telling you all this? Well, it turns out, that that link your visual system and focusing on a particular the systolic blood pressure. And when you focus your eyes that systolic blood pressure goes up, and there are some other systems that are coordinated with that start releasing adrenaline, low amounts of adrenaline in most cases. And that adrenaline, further So, bringing our visual focus does a number of things to the brain and the whole system of to place it into a state of readiness that makes us more likely into action. And if we step this makes perfect sense. The brain and body need to be coordinated. We can't just think about a goal. In fact, a deer or a lion, It has to think about a goal of activation energy, some willingness or desire to move forward in pursuit of that goal. So imagining a goal, has to be coupled to the physical pursuit of the goal. So our visual system in a beautiful way, brings together a focus, literally, a visual focus on a Then it recruits an increase which creates a systemic, a body-wide and brain-wide increase in oxygen availability, in our willingness to as a whole coherent system. And then there are also like epinephrine, as we that get recruited as well to place us into a This to me is a remarkable and it gets right to the point of some of the psychological phenomenon that we were talking about earlier. Let's just recall what some of those are. I won't list them all, but, a goal has to be All the psychologists, all it has to be significant, has to be inspirational and has to be action oriented. So let's say you look of what's available to you, whether or not it's just in your mind, or you look at a specific point, you say, I want to go to that to eat that particular food. And you orient towards it This is the way that your brain and body, are coordinating their actions together. Conversely, when our visual system, is in a mode of looking at everything. When the aperture of our we know that there's also a reduction in our goal directed behavior and a reduction in the It's as if our peripersonal we don't need to get We're not oriented toward So I've now described and some of the underlying physiology. Now, I'd like to mesh of actual specific goal Because what many of you well, that's some physiology, but how do you actually apply this towards setting and achieving goals? Well, you do that, by understanding and your attention are to your peripersonal space, focused on your immediate or towards things outside you. But then you also have the ability, to dynamically travel back And so next, we're going to talk about, what the literature says about immediate and intermediate goals, long-term goals and how And then we're going to move specifically into the protocols that you can use. It's a protocol that I've for you, the listeners, in order to incorporate all that you can do any time, any place, to really identify what that you want to pursue and the best route to pursue Focusing our visual attention is incredibly effective for And if you'd like to read or read a review of that have looked at how, can really enhance the I'll put a link to this study. The title of the study is, testing the influence of on physical activity. And this is a paper from focuses mainly on physical activities, but it mentioned some This is an article published in Personality and Social so it's recent. It's an exceptional paper in my opinion, really gets to the heart and some of the examples of So let's apply this visual to any type of goal If you already know what maybe it's a workout, maybe it's a cognitive work Again, the process is very simple. You're going to focus your beyond your peripersonal space, so it could be on your computer. it could be a horizon. It could be at a distance and you're going to focus And with some effort you're going for 30 to 60 seconds, you but you're going to try and hold your visual attention there. So no moving your head around. No diverting your attention Some people will find it very easy to do. Other people will find it quite hard. Your mind may drift but try and bring your visual attention to that common point. Several episodes ago, I talked about how, there are actually studies of training in students, for ADHD and the data on that are So for people who have ADHD and focus issues and attentional issues, this can be effective. For people who don't, this Again, it places your brain and body into a state of readiness and then the idea is to move that bring you closer to your goal. We haven't yet talked and how to assess progress. This is simply how to pursue goals. But the visual component is important, in fact, I would argue and harnessing your visual is going to be the most effective way, to get your brain and body to pursue whatever goal it That practice is in stark where by definition from place to place to place. I mentioned that in getting your system into somewhat of an increased level of activation, so that you can pursue But the visual attention is going to be the most effective into a state of readiness There's another really interesting way, that you can leverage your visual system toward long-term goals. The Balcetis Lab has also done, some really interesting experiments, looking at people's ability to set and stick to long-term goals. And the long-term goal was one related to saving This is something that a a lot of people have a or saving money for later in life. Simply because as human beings, we vary in the extent to which we worry about what's going to happen later. There's also a phenomenon of Delay discounting, is the fact that goals, become less rewarding when in the future. You may have experienced this I love donuts I'm just going to admit it, I love the smell of them. I try to eat them 'cause I'm told they're and indeed, I don't think they are. I occasionally cave and But in general, I try not to cave to the of the smell and the taste of the donut. But, what we know is or you smell a wonderful piece of food, in the immediate term, it your mental focus to the immediate phase. And it feels very rewarding, like if you had it now, But if you actually extend or the next thing you think, today happens to be a but, on Tuesday morning, It doesn't have the same value doesn't work as well for long-term goals. It's not as salient. It's not as tangible, a goal, especially for something like a donut. Whereas the kinds of goals that work, when you place them out to the longer term and can create a heightened tend to be things that are So delay discounting simply says that, the further out in time the less effective that reward will be in motivating one's behavior. And indeed you see this with you see this with all sorts The Balcetis Lab, therefore where they looked at people's tendency to save money for later in life. But the groups that they were really interesting. They had one group, imagine, what it would be like And then to invest a according to whatever it is they thought that they would need. And they measured the amount that they had set aside and saved for later in life. The other group, actually so picture, images of themselves that were artificially, digitally aged, so that they could see into the future. And it turns out that people in that second group, simply by perceiving their invested far more money into later life. They set aside more money. Somehow it bridged the gap between their immediate experience of life and the longer arc toward what it was going to So very powerful result in my opinion, because what it says again, is that our visual or our visual perception of the present, is what allows us to anchor and our motivation to take on things that in the immediate term So, you can imagine all You can imagine that I'd see a vision of myself or an actual physical picture of myself as a consequence of having for the next 10 years. I don't know what that 'cause I've never seen it. That's not an experiment that I necessarily need to do because I'm not that but I have to confess, I am somebody who I think I'm pretty But I think if I were to see there's so many things that are associated with visual images. Like what our body must feel like, what our needs are in that state or in that age. What sorts of things we may or may not still be And that anchors back to immediate goal-directed behaviors, such as setting aside Such as investing in And indeed there's a study that has looked at how people will invest in exercise and healthy eating. If they just think about the future and what they might be like in the future versus seeing images of if they were to go down a So again, the point is that the visual system, what we see, is principally important in defining what we do Even if what we see relates to something in the far off distance. I think these are phenomenal studies and they get right down that's been kicked around over and over in the literature and in the discussion about goal seeking, which is visualization. We here keep the big goal in mind, focus on the big goal. So now we're going to address, what does the science say about visualizing big goals? If you're somebody who's or let's say you're is thinking about the perfect relationship and what that would look like and the family that you would have and where you would live. Is that effective in generating the kinds of behaviors that will lead you to that? Is it effective to think about the big win at the end? Well, it turns out it is, but you have to be very, very careful with when and how you 'Cause if you do it correctly, it can really serve And if you do it incorrectly, it can undermine the entire process. So, does visualization work? Well, turns out, that visualization of the So the Superbowl win or eight gold medals in the Olympics or graduation from the or making a certain amount of money or finding the partner of That visualization is effective in getting the goal but it actually is a pretty lousy and maybe even counterproductive way of maintaining pursuit of that goal. Meaning continuing to that are going to get you to I think this is going to be but if we think back to our discussion about the physiology of it'll make sense. Good scientific studies have been done where people are told to imagine, or even script out their long-term vision What is the big goal? And they're talked to, or told to imagine it with To think about how it's going to feel in their body and the big win. And basically what happens is, if you measure people's blood pressure or other metrics of physiology, you see an increase in that There's an kind of a and excitement for that goal, but that increase in blood And over time, that visual of the long-term goal, becomes a poor thing to rely on in order to that are required to reach that goal. In fact, there's a much better way to maintain ongoing action toward a goal that also involves visualization, but it turns out it's not It's about visualizing failure. The Balcetis Lab and other labs have looked at whether or toward goals of different types. Whether or not they're They're thinking about that goal line and what they want to achieve, that long-term goal and all the wonderful or whether or not they're thinking about all the ways in en route to that goal. This is not typically what Typically, we are told push failure out of your mind, only focus on success. Fake it till you make it, or is a phrase that I because it's not even And it's not even clear what the ethical form of that is. I think it means continue or fear that things won't work out. But if you look at the literature, the scientific literature, what the Balcetis Lab and is that there's a near in the probability of reaching one's goal, if you focus routinely You think about the ways if you take action A or you take action B and instead, therefore, you take action C. You're supposed to think about how things could fail, if you don't get up and run each morning, if your goal is, say a fitness goal. So let's use that as an example, because even though I realized, people are in pursuit of many Fitness goals and physical that we can all get on the same page about 'cause they're related to actions. Let's say, somebody sets a goal of running five miles, and as many as seven, before 8:00 AM. In a previous podcast on habits, I talked about the benefits of not necessarily setting specific times that one will do things, but setting time blocks that one we'll do things. So you say before 8:00 AM, you're going to run five miles and that's going to happen One version of this would be, okay, sit back in a chair and think about how great if you're doing this every day. How your health is going to improve. How everything's going to be, your blood markers, of lipids, et cetera, are going to improve, okay, fine. That's the visualization goal of visualizing the end point. It turns out that is far less effective and maybe even counterproductive, compared to thinking about if you don't do this. The negative health outcomes the disappointment you're The fact that you're that's not long enough for many people to run five miles. You got to put on your shoes or even hailing or snowing, outside. And now you're not going who's particularly motivated to do that. So, foreshadowing failure turns out to be the best way to In fact, as I mentioned before, there's a near doubling in the likelihood that people will reach goals of any kind. When they're constantly thinking about how bad it's going If we think back to the with assessing value in our goal pursuits, this makes perfect sense. The amygdala, that center of the brain that's involved in anxiety Well, the amygdala, is one of our goal setting and And there's no bypassing that. there is no one listening to this or watching this who's in their goal setting and And so, while I'd love that all you should think and all the wonderful, rewarding things that are going to happen The truth is, you should about how bad it's really going to get, if you don't do it. How disappointed in yourself, How it will negatively impact you, if not in the immediate if indeed your goal is to reach your goal. So, I want to emphasize that I'm not interested to flagellate themselves. I'm encouraging people And it turns out the best way to do that, is by foreshadowing failure. And the more specific you can get by writing down or thinking about or talking about, how bad it will be if you the more likely you are Part of the reason for that almost certainly has to do with increases in systolic blood pressure and increases in readiness in your system, when you imagine failure. The brain and body are much better at moving away from fearful things than towards things we want. I wish I could tell you but there is a true asymmetry in the way we are built. In fact, the brain and body can engage in what's called, one trial learning. When something bad happens, we eat a food that makes us sick. We have an interaction that we really don't like. It only takes one trial to really... One event, one time to reorient or rewire our neural circuitry, so that we have a bias toward moving away from that thing in the future. When things go well, unfortunately, that doesn't often occur. If things go really, really well, it might orient our brain and body toward wanting more of that thing. And we'll have neural circuitry changes that will lead us to engage in that particular behavior but it is never as effective as these avoidance circuits. So again, foreshadow failure, if you're going to do that at the very beginning Maybe intermittently you imagine the big win of scoring perfect on exam or winning the championship But most of the time, if you want to be effective, you should be focusing on avoiding failure and you should be really clear about what those failures would look like and feel like. Now, let's talk about goal setting. Going back to that prominent literature, the psychology and popular literature, again, we can hear some of The goal should be It should be inspirational. It should be aggressive, yet realistic. Well, okay, that's all fine and good, but let's get semi Let's at least get biological about this. How inspirational does it need to be? Does it need to be the kind of thing that is so inspiring to me that I can't sleep at all? Well, that wouldn't be good because as I believe and I know, many of you have heard me regular deep sleep, 80% that you go to sleep, is going to be crucial to your cognitive and mental functioning and your ability to achieve your goals in the long-term. That's absolutely clear. So, it's got to be, but what does that really look like and what does that correspond to and how do we actually make that happen? Well, once again, there is a mismatch between what the real data show and what we're most often told. Turns out, that again, but also other laboratories, has addressed whether of achieving a goal, goes up or down, depending on whether or not one visualizes or sets a goal that is easy, An impossible goal would I'm going to jump from my front driveway, all the way up to the road, the road's, quite a distance away, it's more than 20 meters away. It's just not going to happen. It's not going to happen in this lifetime, it's not going to happen Not unless it involves that I'm not aware of, a jet pack or something like that. It's just not going to happen. An easy goal would be Or could I jump, two feet in Now I'm using a trivial example here, but this could be translated school goal, physical goal, et cetera. It turns out that, when people set goals, whether or not they are nutritional goals, eat more of this or eat less of that. Whether or not they're fitness goals, run more, lift more. Some other goals, swim less, swim more, whatever it is their goal happens to be. Some learning goal, some relationship goal, some attempt to modify their behavior. It turns out that if the goal is too easy, it's too within reach, it doesn't recruit enough of the autonomic nervous system to make pursuit of that goal, likely. Now that might be surprising, at least it was surprising well, something is really, really easy. there's a very low bar to achieve it. People are probably more likely to do it. But turns out that's not the case, when we hear that a goal what do we mean? When we hear that something's too easy, to recruit our action, what do we mean? Well, Balcetis Lab measured, and found that, when goals were too easy they didn't get that increase and recruitment of the other meaning the blood systems that would place them into ongoing effort. And so they quickly gave up. Also, if a goal was too lofty, if it was too far from it didn't recruit enough Even if people could get very excited about something mentally, it simply didn't place their because it wasn't tangible that they could actually So it turns out that when they were just outside or that one felt that yeah, that would take a lot of effort. But it's within range or maybe in range, like maybe I can do it, maybe I can't. Then there was a near doubling of the systolic blood It didn't go into the unhealthy range and a doubling or more of the likelihood that they would engage of that particular goal. So here we're talking about goal setting., what we're saying is, set but that aren't so The goals need to be realistic Don't set goals that are that they crash that blood pressure system in the other direction and make you or anyone feel unmotivated. In hearing this, it makes sense, but I don't think I had they not done this I would have thought, the loftier the goal, the bigger the goal, the more that it recruits and the more that people are likely, to lean into the energy and effort to pursue and attain that goal. I also would have thought that if a goal is really easy to achieve, that it would engage the systems of action in the brain and body enough that people would sort of get into motion and pursue that goal. But neither is the case. Again, set goals that but that are not so lofty, that they collapse your system and that you feel overwhelmed. And the important thing here, is that how we perceive a goal, whether or not we think of course will vary, depending on whether or not we are rested. Depending on whether or not other aspects of our life are going well. I mean, we can think that of a lifetime goal and and then there'll be some or there'll be a health crisis And then that goal seems So we will talk about how to update goals under different context in a few minutes. But, of course this is this isn't something But the takeaway again is very simple, set goals that are but not so hard nor so easy that they don't engage your Moderate goals are best, if you want to achieve your goals. Now I'd like to talk about of scientific study, that point to goal pursuit, goal assessment and goal achievement. Previously I told you, that it's great to foreshadow failure. That that's a great way to get your system into a state of activation. I also told you that you want to set goals, that are challenging but possible. And again, here, I'm paraphrasing from the work of Emily Balcetis. I want to be very clear. There are a few other in order to bias the likelihood, that you will succeed in First of all, limit your options, trying to pursue too many goals at once, can definitely be counter productive. Now I realized that life is complicated. We all have multiple goals but if we have particular we have to be careful to not And many people run into this problem. So setting one or two or maybe three major is going to be more than and is actually going to be Now, of course we have daily and yearly goals, but if we need to be careful not to and our visual space with too many goals. And why do I say visual goals? Well, what various department stores and supermarkets have discovered is that, the greater, the number of the more that we can draw our attention and our goals off a line of pursuit. What does that mean? Well, let's think about it This has actually been done. Big department stores have figured out that if they stock their with many, many options of food or clothing items or objects people simply buy more stuff. People are very prone to to whatever's in front of them. You put a lot of stuff in front of them, their attention drifts, you put fewer things in front of them, their attention is more narrow. In a later episode, we'll talk that's optimized on the basis of this. It doesn't mean being in a room with nothing except just Doesn't have to be that sparse, but visual sparseness, actually can help us orient When we have a lot of things or a lot of things in our It's the same thing. And so if you're going to try a relationship goal, an academic goal, and a longterm life that's four things. And you're going to have that allow you to isolate those And if you do have and overlapping goals in a few minutes, we're going to talk about a process that will allow you to use your visual system, to align towards each of in a way that makes it much more likely that you'll achieve them. So now let's talk about We've all heard that the and the more specific we are about when and how we are the higher probability that we will actually achieve that goal. And indeed that's the case, but there's an additional feature, that's not often discussed. That is vitally important. And in fact, maybe more important than having a specific time of day or a specific end point in mind. There's a really nice study, that was done looking at recycling. This is something that a number of groups, businesses, households, and individuals are trying to do more of. They're trying to lower carbon footprint or contribute to the by throwing away fewer things that could potentially be recycled. So this has been studied in the context of the work environment, where a business decides that there's going to be a greater effort toward recycling cans or bottles or bottles and cans, et cetera. And then, the way these studies were done, is that the janitorial staff for researchers that actually measured the number of recyclable items that showed up in the trash and not in the recycle, as a function of the Why'd I say, as a function What's a way of controlling for differences in beverage consumption from one week to the next? Anyway, the point is they were able to very carefully measure, how much people are recycling before and after this call And what they found was, if they said, we are going try not to put cans and There of course was an but it was pretty modest. Whereas when there was and everyone knew what for instance, to place all bottles and cans into the recycle, not the trash or to limit the amount of trash by 50%, or to eliminate all recyclable So when they made it very concrete, exactly what the action steps were, there was a remarkable, I mean, close to a hundred fold or more improvement in recycling behavior that lasted many months after this call to action was made. The takeaway from this It means that having a You can't just say, I'm going to become a better recycler or I'm going to do things that are better for the environment or I'm going to become It has to be a specific that get right down to details about what success would look like. I've heard this before described as what does right look like? What is the actual outcome that one would like to achieve in terms of action steps? So not necessarily feeling states, it wasn't that they all how great we're all going to feel about ourselves in the world when we accomplish this goal? It was very concrete about action steps that would Somewhat straightforward and intuitive, but nonetheless worthwhile. What it suggests is that for all of us, if we have certain goals we need to be exquisitely detailed about what the action steps are, that we are going to take and to constantly update so that we have a higher probability of meeting those action steps. Some of you may be asking, how often should one assess progress? Well, that of course will that you're trying to pursue. But in the studies that I've been referring to here, the assessment of progress and the updating of concrete So it seems like weekly to address how well one performed in the previous week. And then based on that performance to update the action plan So weekly seems like a for setting particular action goals and assessing one's progress towards the immediate Any discussion about would be incomplete without a discussion about the molecule, dopamine. Dopamine is often thought of as the molecule of pleasure and reward, but actually it is the This is best illustrated by a classic set of studies, that have been carried out in The animal study can be two rats, each in a separate cage. You can provide those rats with the opportunity to indulge in something that they like, like food or mating. Or heat, if it's cold in the environment, or a cool spot in the cage, if it's warm in the And what you find is that, rats will very readily They will, mate. They will eat. They will pursue something Now, if you are to take one of those rats and deplete its dopamine neurons, you can eliminate it's dopamine neurons or block dopamine in the brain. What you find, is that those animals They will consume the food, However, their motivation, to achieve pleasure is vastly reduced. In fact, if you place the mate, the food, et cetera, even just one rat's the rat without dopamine of its own body in order And there are naturally in humans that mimic that There are certain conditions in humans where there's a depletion of dopamine. And what you find is that, the depletion of dopamine to experience pleasure, necessarily. It inhibits an ability to pursue or go through the series of action steps in order to achieve pleasure. So dopamine, really sits at the heart of our motivational state, to seek out goals and to seek pleasure. And this is true for immediate goals that take place within or a timeframe of a day, or the timeframe of a week or Dopamine, is the common currency Now, dopamine does a number of things that are very interesting. I'm going to describe a few of them as they relate to goal seeking behavior. First of all, there's of how our brain releases that's called, reward prediction error. And the simplest way to think about dopamine reward prediction error, is that dopamine is released and places us into a when something happens Now, an important thing to is that it's not always released on the same schedule. There are a couple of different ways that dopamine is released. And when it is released of a reward, is key. If you don't expect you're just going about your day and something positive happens, dopamine and a lot of I had this happen recently. I had no idea that I was going to be but I went to the mail. I looked in the mail and I And I was really, really This is a real event that However, if we anticipate is going to happen and then that thing happens, we experience dopamine as So even before we get the reward, there's an increase in dopamine. It's not as high as it would be, if something really novel and unexpected and positive happened, but we do get an increase in dopamine. And then, when we actually we experience the positive thing, there's a smaller increase in dopamine. So again, the biggest increases to things that are Lesser dopamine is released when we anticipate and when that happens, And we also get some dopamine when the positive thing happens, think about anticipating We have some dopamine churning, then we have the meal and we also get some dopamine from that, but not nearly as much as we would, if it had all happened as Then, there's also the that something good will happen, when that happens, there's as it was before, but then if that thing doesn't happen, for instance, our friends then there's a drop in dopamine That drop in dopamine, is the chemical essence of Now, this dopamine reward can be leveraged toward because it tells us where we should set our milestones. We can't be in a mode on the finish line. Very few people can do that over long periods of time in a way that's effective. Now, earlier I talked about a study where people were focused and they were moving through space with these ankle weights on, but that was a very short-term goal. So, if a goal is within minutes, or maybe even within an hour or as in with our immediate maybe we can do that. But most goals of the sort that most people are academic goals, business goals, relationship goals, et cetera, So, understanding what we know about reward prediction error, about where to place the milestones, how far out in the future So then the question becomes, how often or at what intervals And it turns out this is very subjective, but that there's a way Now, in a previous episode of I had a discussion with and we were talking about, how the brain can subjectively change whether or not a given is positive or negative. And the example that Robert gave, is a really phenomenal one. It's a study that's been done in rats and also in humans where they took a rat and they had a rat run on a running wheel. Rats turns out like to and the blood pressure of that animal, the health metrics for that animal, the lipid profiles, many, The rat was exercising and presumably happier, we don't know, we could've asked it, but we wouldn't know. It but we can measure blood lipids. We can measure blood pressure And indeed, when that rat they generally get healthier. Except, in that particular experiment, they had another animal where every time rat number one, ran, rat number two was forced to run. It was on a running wheel and it was forced to run, but because it was forced to. And what was remarkable, is that the physiological effects of being forced to do something, were in the complete opposite when those same behaviors In other words, the rat got healthier and the rat that was forced blood pressure went up in a direction that wasn't effective and useful. Blood lipids got worse. Stress hormones went up, And you see the same thing in humans. Now, what this says, is that our subjective understanding of why we are doing something, is fundamentally important for the effects that we will get from that behavior. And indeed the effects of So this has two major implications. First of all, in terms we can decide to use any for a given behavior. We can decide that the milestones for a... Let's say a plan of getting in really terrific cardiovascular We can decide to assess every day and ask ourselves how And if we made progress, then We could do that every third day. We could do it every week. We could do it every five minutes, if we actually had the time to do that. The reward schedule, the dopamine system, is highly susceptible to These so-called, top-down effects of when we decide that something if we analyze it on a given timeframe, well, then it's going to be good for us. So, what I suggest people do is pick a particular interval at which they are going And if you've been making that you reward yourself and the reward indeed is all cognitive. It's all mental. It's telling yourself, yes, Now, some people will say, wait, but I want to know exactly You need to do that at an interval that you can maintain consistently. So you're not going to or every step of every jog that you take, unless you can do it, of every jog that you take. For that reason, I think that daily or ideally, weekly assessments I think that checking looking back on the previous week and assessing how well you performed in pursuit of a given goal. How many times a week you ran, or how many times you studied, or how many times you did or avoided something that I think that's a reasonable to assess once a week. So that's one point, that pick a milestone that throughout the pursuit of a goal. The second thing, is that that were described by that Sapolsky study or that Sapolsky described for all aspects of goal seeking behavior. We cannot underestimate the extent to which the dopamine system and our sense of whether or not we is under our cognitive control. If we constantly place ourselves into a mode of thinking then indeed, we are not going Now, earlier, I said, we need to predict and visualize failure, but that is not the same thing as thinking about ourselves as failing. We need to predict what the but then encountering that and in behaving in a certain way, and thinking in a certain way, in pursuing our goals in an effective way. Maybe checking in on that each week, we definitely need to for the correct and successful pursuit. What this means is that as a mechanism of generating motivation and indeed fear and anxiety, so that you lean into and you lean away from to reach your goal. But then weekly or so, whatever you can maintain consistently, you absolutely want to by telling yourself, I got another week where I accomplish, whatever it is that I'm A concrete example that I'm following now, is this 150 to 200 minutes because that's shown to be very effective in improving mental and So once a week, I'll check in with myself. If I reach that 150 to then I'll reward myself simply by checking off a box and I'm on track. I'm on track. This dopamine system is critical to re-up, to remind ourselves that we are on track, if indeed we are on track because dopamine itself and readiness to continue in the regular pursuit of our goals. Dopamine, the molecule, is actually used to manufacture epinephrine Which are other molecules which put us into that There are actually the molecules that help generate that increase in systolic blood pressure, that puts us into a state of readiness. So you can think about dopamine as a self amplifying system, provided that you are on a consistent schedule. Now, by also following a you set yourself up for any that may happen. So for instance, if you're telling yourself that you're doing well, if indeed you are. And then out of nowhere, for instance, you're out on a run or you're doing something, I'm using fitness as an example. But you're doing something, you find yourself performing that's a unexpected dopamine reward that will further amplify the system. Now I know many people out there, having heard me talk about well, can I release too much dopamine and then the whole system will crash and then I'll run out of motivation? In general, that doesn't happen unless people are using pharmacology, supplements or prescription to increase dopamine. This is why I'm a big fan and cold water exposure, which has been shown to lead to long-lasting 2.5 X or in some cases, supplementation with which are precursors to dopamine. Or in some cases, caffeine, which can increase the number of dopamine receptors that we have, so that whatever dopamine can be more effective in activating these motivational states. But things that really increase dopamine and then cause it to One way to conceive of dopamine, is as a sort of dopamine wave pool. You've probably seen these wave pools, where some pressure is and then you get these waves going. If those waves are consistent enough, and they're are of high enough amplitude, the waves can continue to go But if it's a giant wave, if you get a huge blast of dopamine, well then a bunch of the water and then you basically reset that dopamine level. That's what happens in addiction and when people start or other things into the system that increase dopamine too much. So today we've almost about behavioral tools. It is possible to incorporate supplements and things of that sort, that to getting into ongoing But I caution people about Really what you want, is you want a situation where your own understanding, that you are reaching the milestones that you've set out for yourself. That you're achieving those, and that is what's causing these waves or these increases in dopamine that will further amplify Another very interesting that I've not talked about at all on this podcast before, is actually how the with the visual system. We've talked a lot about how harnessing your visual attention, to a particular point is great and can help serve your and achieve goals. Really wonderful work that who's one of the great pioneers in this area of dopamine and dopamine reward prediction error, showed that for people that their visual search, meaning how they scanned tends to be pretty constrained. They might move their eyes around a particular visual For people that lack dopamine, they actually have very They don't actually tend to They're don't have that that we're talking about that kind of a... I guess for lack of a better phrase, that kind of eye of the Rather, their eye movements are depleted and they're not actually off in their future, they're not focused so much And this actually can be restored and some of these took place and other people who that when dopamine is their visual focus is re-enhanced again. Now, there are a lot of that don't map perfectly onto everything that I've talked about. But the point is this, when we are focused on a particular point in visual space or a particular goal or horizon. All those systems, our and indeed dopamine, get recruited to put us into a state of readiness and willingness to go pursue things in that extrapersonal space. When our visual attention is very diffuse, all of that relaxes, and we tend to be more comfortable staying in the place that we are, and the effect works in When dopamine is increased, our visual attention for increase. So the way it works is reciprocal. When we use our visual system bring it to a point of focus, it recruits chemical and neural systems in our brain and body that put us into a state And, when we increase certain chemicals in our brain and body, like then we also allow our visual system to be in a state of looking in our visual world. So the system works in both directions and some people leverage this or taking things like And again, it works both ways, there's no right or wrong way to do it. I'm a particular fan of always prior to using supplementation or any kinds of other tools because behavioral tools that supplementation and Which is that behavioral engage neuroplasticity. As we start to practice, using our visual system to particular locations and in that way, move we get better and better In fact, the systems for themselves have plasticity, so we get better at being when we place our visual Using chemical assistance of a safe kind, of course, check with your doctor. But things like L-Tyrosine or yes, it will increase dopamine and will increase our ability, to engage in visual focus somewhat. But those compounds alone, don't modify the circuitry So I always say, behavioral tools first, then nutritional tools, and then if it's right for you and safe, maybe you advance into some of the other more sophisticated tools. I'd like to just briefly recap what I've covered up until now. And again, emphasize that much of what I've covered has been based on the beautiful work of I do hope to get her as a guest First of all, set goals that those moderate goals, not super But moderately challenging goals, seem to be the most effective in moving people towards their goals over the short and longterm. Second, plan concretely, you need a concrete set of actions that you're going to follow Third, foreshadow failure. This is a somewhat surprising one to me. I would have anticipated, that imagining success is the way to go. It turns out that imagining can be useful at the outset of a goal and maybe every once in a while in pursuit of that goal. But that it's not terrific for putting you in constant pursuit of that goal, rather, foreshadowing and all the terrible things that it's going to bring, seems to be more effective. And that maps very well to what's known about the neural circuitry and the involvement of the amygdala. Focus on particular visual points as a way to harness your attention and to remove distractors. Removing distractors and into a mode of activation. Getting that healthy increase that puts you into forward motion towards your goals, is absolutely key. So that's a brief summary of what I've covered up until now. There were other things too, and the power of in regulating that dopamine system. But I want to be sure to include a tool, that's been especially powerful for me, that's grounded in the and in the psychology research. And as I describe this tool next, I think you'll see the ways in which it measures nicely with the work that Emily Balcetis This is something that, I've personally been doing for many years, based on my understanding and the understanding that indeed we can move our cognition and our perception from and focusing on our peripersonal space. That space within us and and on the things that are That we can shift from that mode to this mode of exteroception of focusing on things outside and that are beyond our reach, that are literally goal directed behaviors and goal directed thoughts. And this is something that in the past, I have talked about a little bit and I've talked about something And we haven't talked too much about the time domain of But space-time bridging, is simply a way of using one's visual system to focus on the peripersonal And then gradually in a deliberate way, stepping one's focus into and then back to the peripersonal space in a way that gives you a lot over that ability in your daily life. So, I'm going to first describe the tool, and then I will explain more and the underlying mechanism. Here's how you would do this. You could do this indoors or outdoors, although, ideally, you where you could view a horizon. It could be through a window or ideally outdoors, without a window. It could be done anytime of day. At night, it might be a but it goes the following way. What you first do, is you this could be done sitting or standing. But you would close your eyes and you would focus as including your visual attention on your inner landscape, So that would be your maybe even the surface of your skin, but really focusing internally. Now, how can you focus your if your eyes are closed? Well, you do that by imagining So you don't have to and so forth. But what you're trying to of the outside world. You're eliminating exteroception and you're focusing all of and your perceptual attention on what you're experiencing within the confines of your skin or at the level of the and inside your body. And you would do that for a duration of approximately three slow breaths. So close your eyes. You do breath one, breath concentrating all your attention on your internal landscape. Then you would open your eyes and you would focus your visual attention on some area on the surface of your body. So for me, the way that will be to focus on, So I'll focus my visual And I then do three breaths again, focusing on my internal state, but now I'm splitting out a little bit of my attention from I'm focusing on something outside me, the ratio or the split of about 90% of my attention but I'm also focusing some Most people can do this pretty easily. Then, there's a third, I now move my visual to some location in the room, or if I'm outside in the something in the range And I'm trying to move 90% of my attention to that external object. So now I'm really biasing my towards exteroception. As I breathe, I'm paying so that's why there's still 10%, that's focused on my internal landscape because I want to pay attention But I'm focusing as much of my attention, outside of myself, on my internal state, so I can measure the cadence Then I move my visual attention which is further away, or something as far off in the distance, as I can possibly see. Again for the duration of three breaths. And at that point, I'm trying if not 100% of my attention And then, what I typically will do, is I will try and expand both my vision and my cognition to a much broader sphere. This is that, magnocellular vision that we talked about before, where I'm not focusing on a particular location on the horizon. I'm trying to dilate the so I can see as much as I'm in as possible. If you're in an internal, excuse me, if you're in indoors, then that might be the ceiling, the walls and the floor of the If you're outdoors, it would as broadly as you possibly can. Again, for the duration of three breaths, then I would return immediately I would close my eyes and I would do three more on my interoception, on or what we called before, And I would then repeat that, peripersonal space, 100%, focus on my hand, 90%, 10% on my peripersonal space Stepping out to another location where it's mostly exteroception, maybe a little bit of then to the horizon, then to this broader visual And I would work through maybe two or three times. The entire thing takes about depending on how many breaths you do. I said three, but you could do one or 10. It doesn't really matter. Or, it's also going to depend on, for instance, how slowly your breathing. 'Cause your breathing might be faster than mine or vice versa. What is all of this doing? Why do I call this space-time bridging? And why is this useful for goal setting? The reason I call it space-time bridging, is that the visual system, is not just about analyzing space. It's actually how we batch time. It's how we carve up time. And the simple way to state this is that, when we focus our visual attention on a very narrow point, that's close to our body and our immediate experience. We tend to slice up time, very finely. We're focused on our breathing. We're focused on our heartbeats. In fact, our breathing and our heartbeats become the sort of on our experience. We are carving up time, according to our immediate Whereas when we focus our visual not only do we engage that exteroceptive, extra personal space system, and we start to engage the goal-directed system, but we also start When we focus our visual system into a broader sphere beyond the confines of our skin, we start carving up time, Now this is useful in the goal assessment and goal pursuit. Because with the exception of almost all goals, involve that's off in the future, and then carving up the time between now and the achievement of that range in duration. And the rewards, even if we try and just make them every week, are going to come at and that's actually can be helpful for reinforcing behavior, That's intermittent and random is the most effective but the problem is always, how do we keep our cognition in line with the long-term goal while also being focused on these more immediate goals? And so this particular practice, that I call space-time bridging, but we could give it a different name. I'm sure there are better names. Maybe you can suggest some in the comment section on YouTube, that are more accurate But this behavior or this practice rather, is teaching us to use our visual system and thereby our cognitive system and thereby our reward systems, to orient to different locations in space and therefore different locations in time. And that is the essence That is the essence of setting a goal. It's about thinking about what you want. Then it's about setting milestones that are intermediate to that goal. Then it's about assessing whether or not you're reaching those milestones. And then, it's of course if you need to update your goals. All of that is an enormously if you think about it all at once, but if you break it down that the visual system can help you find and move towards those milestones. I think there's ample and that your control is indeed yours, that you can deliberately set And then you make a practice of stepping through on a regular basis. Again, I do this each morning. I do this once a day. Rarely have I done it twice a day. Rarely have I missed a day. But by doing that, you in teaching the systems of your brain that are related to to map to different timeframes. So, I found this to be a the Balcetis work has mainly focused on visual tools that Here I'm talking about multiple what I called stations or horizons. But what's very clear, is from different visual stations and to do that in a deliberate way in a focused and conscious way. Clearly maps to an ability, to conceive of different goals over different periods of time. And I do believe can be greatly beneficial in allowing one to set particular goals and then move through the and to constantly update one's pursuit and reward in reaching those milestones and eventually, the overall goal. Per usual, I covered a We talked about some of the neuroscience and psychology and popular understanding of goal seeking behavior. How to assess goals, et cetera. Talked about the beautiful at New York University and her work on the use to better achieve goals. And indeed things like visualization and why forecasting failure than forecasting success as counter intuitive as that might seem. That's what the data point to. And we talked about the importance and really what that means. And what intervals at And what intervals at and how the dopamine system is involved. And in addition, I described this practice that one can incorporate as a daily or semi-daily practice of of using the visual system and your ability to deliberately from stations that are within your body. So-called peripersonal or into the world further and further. And then back again in sequence as a way to harness and cultivate and build up these space, time, reward systems and so forth. Ultimately, as you set out there are going to be that everyone will have to follow. You have to clearly identify, what the long arching ultimate goal is. You have to identify what You might not know all but you ought to have some idea about the intervals at which you are going to set those milestones and set your reward schedule in route to those milestones My hope is that you'll be able if not all of them, perhaps just one of them or two of them in pursuit of whatever particular goals, you happen to be focused on at this point and in the future. If you're enjoying and are please subscribe to Apple and Spotify. That's a terrific zero In addition, on YouTube, you can leave us comments and feedback. You can also leave us that you'd like us to include or topics that you'd like us to cover in the comment section on YouTube. And on Apple, you can leave there's also an opportunity Please also check out at the beginning of the podcast, that's perhaps the best way And in addition, we have a Patreon, it's And there you can support at any level that you like. In today's episode and of the &quot;Huberman Lab Podcast&quot;, while supplements aren't many people drive tremendous For things like sleep It's really important that if that they be of the For that reason, we because Thorne supplements, have the highest levels of stringency with respect to the and the precision of the amounts of the ingredients they If you want to see the you can go to Thorne, And you can see the and get 20% off any of those supplements. And if you navigate further through thorne.com/u/huberman, you can also get 20% off that Thorne makes. If you're not already following and/ or, Twitter, please do so, there I teach neuroscience and that sometimes overlap with but oftentimes is unique from the content of the podcast. Also, if you haven't already done so, please subscribe to the &quot;Huberman Lab&quot; at Neural Network Newsletter. The Neural Network Newsletter, is a monthly zero-cost newsletter where I very succinctly spell for things like sleep, learning, neuroplasticity and other topics as well. You can go to hubermanlab.com, click on the menu, go to newsletter. It's a simple signup. We will not give out your All our privacy policy is there, again at zero cost and very cleanly spell out a that you can hear about on the podcast. And in closing, I want for joining me in this discussion about the biology-science and in particular, the goal assessment and achieving goals. And last, but certainly not least, thank you for your interest in science. [upbeat music]