Nintendo is pretty much the Disney of video games company in Japan, they owe a lot to their iconic series to the epic adventures in Zelda, there is But, just like Disney and Nintendo has their own set of vile fiends who them down from the kindest faces you go up Who's the worst, most irredeemable in comparison? I'm Brad with 1upBinge! And Now, we need to go over a couple rules. Firstly, themselves; no external media allowed. manga, films or anime adaptation. Secondly, so no Super Smash Bros feats. And thirdly, If we missed a villain you think should have been For this video, we'll be and working our way down to the most First up, we have two characters that are acted bad enough to warrant a spot here. Our Meta Knight. First introduced back in Kirby's to be just content being in the shadows, by giving him some rare candy. He can sometimes before fighting him himself, but not fight. Truthfully, despite being called upon by he is pretty heroic, as future games expand So, why are we counting him as a villain? Well, which could be pointed towards just trying to attempts. In one of these two, "Revenge Of Meta in order to stop them from being so lazy, being while his own ship goes down. In the other, "Kirby kill Kirby to prove that they are stronger is more of the exception than the rule. to jump to the aid of Dreamland and is definitely Next up, with our silver medal of the least vile "villain", King Dedede. When we first met him, himself, forcing Kirby to go after him and stop a bit more interesting. We see him break the star good intention; to seal up Nightmare, the threat of took a backseat role as other villains came possessed or kidnapped himself in some way. Once others, like with defeating Zero Two in Kirby 64, to stop Queen Sectonia. Of course, the penguin the previously mentioned Kirby Fighters 2, or with Kirby to settle their rivalry. While he is a far completely heroic like a certain swordsman, so to other characters though, he's truly a hero, Next up, for the consolation prize of Wario. Now, for someone who was made to be does live up to his name. His first introduction keeping it for himself. After this introduction, Wario Land, where he is an adventurer looking by rescuing someone. His main obsession however princess, even tossing them aside if they stand other side series, WarioWare. Here, he's the enlisting the help of his friends to Seems legit enough, up to the point where he tries That said, he still does seem to think of them and join them for a night of bowling, and the desire to invite Wario to their parties as well. day a couple of times, so we really can't fault he's based on, he still is capable of being Next up, we have one of the many villainous if we ranked every Pokemon organization this list would definitely be bigger than it in the future. For now though, let's just focus crime syndicate is after pokemon, stealing They're also prone to just using the pokemon for notable members of this organization are Giovanni, three most recurring hencemen, Jessie, James, their anime portrayals, but they were so popular Team Rocket organization has expanded past their only made appearances in Pokemon Yellow, The Let's they're probably the least threatening of the evil they're quite easy to overcome in comparisons to squeeze in with a relatively low spot, at From animal kidnapping to regular kidnapping, we have many real villains, so trying to pick an However, the Plasm Wraith managed to be such a ooze is the final boss of Pikmin 3, and unlike had a bit of build up to him, with him kidnapping for himself. That said, he doesn't seem intent on save for making him sleep by forcing The team rescues Olimar, however, to them, putting him above others. That said, with his we really can't rank him too badly in the end. The koopa family makes their debut, with the in Super Mario Sunshine, he's Bowser's son who told about how Bowser keeps losing to Mario, the by framing him for dirtying Isle From then on, he was Bowser's second in his father when they faced Mario. Bowser from finding his paper self and befriending Fawful's own minions of the Best Fitness he is definitely prideful and arrogant. Bowser Jr actually starts to develop a the Koopalings. He also states that he doesn't he wants to help him. In the end, while still a we really can't be too harsh towards someone And like son, like father, Bowser steps up to the Bowser made his name known by his constant Mario always being there to stop him. Throughout Bowser has always picked himself up and is ready From just kidnapping the princess herself, taking marry her, the giant turtle truly doesn't give to at least be genuinely in love with Peach also has a great deal of respect and admiration against anyone that harms him. And of course, invaders of the Mushroom Kingdom, like Fawful. to join Mario and friends in a round of golf, he's a classic villain, there are still other From the Bowser of Mario to King K Rool comes aboard. The main threat of the taken a liking to Donkey Kong's banana stash, in the first game. So, just what makes him more he keeps upping the ante every game. The Donkey Kong as revenge, leaving Diddy Kong and King K Rool decides to kidnap Donkey Kong as he still gets worse, deciding to just blow up the get the chance to thankfully, but with just how it's easy to call King K Rool the Coming up is the fresh and rude DJ Octavio. Once humans, their friendship ended when they both losing and having to hide underground. Now, as the the Octopus does his best to ensure that the the Great Zapfish, the source of the Inkling's he puts his citizens through is just as vile, help brainwash the Octarians into serving him. like Callie into being his second in command. interested in the Great Zapfish due to it being running, saving his own civilization. However, he so we can't be too generous here, and Up next, we have the first of our two Metroid computer that helped last of the Chozo race, after she lost her last child. In her rage, Zebes and use her powers to take over the army. to bring the entire Galaxy under her rule, only to deteriorated mental state, she believes that the She does at least claim to be trying to bring true are definitely dangerous. She does also try to didn't care for Mother Brain. That said, she still her out for her crimes. She also doesn't see much Metroids feast on them. She's truly dangerous From the first Metroid villain here Medusa. The original villain for Kid Icarus, Skyworld. Originally, that is just what she was; However, Uprising reveals some interesting details just as benevolent as Palutena herself. However, that they only call for her and Palutena whenever are ungrateful. She revolted against the humans by Secondly, she is more or less employed by Hades life over and over again. And finally, she did even saving Pit from him and punching Hades's While she certainly is a villain, she and did help Pit and Palutena in stopping Hades, Up next, we have the most iconic Zelda villain, this Gerudo was born into a colony of desert the triforce to use its power to conquer the it ended up splitting as he got stuck with the against Hyrule. Unlike the Link and Zelda that in each and every game. In Skyward Sword, Link and Zelda were cursed by Demise as he died them throughout all of time, that creation being of conquering the fields of Hyrule have remained motives for this. His Wind Waker version had him And he was literally made to be a curse to haunt without any say in the matter. Not only that, but he's just a mindless being of pure hate who can't definitely evil, he was kind of always destined Prepare to have fury, as Fawful is as just being Cackletta's assistant in Mario he has been plotting for something greater. his master's death as an excuse to start bringing In Time to gather resources, he would just fund his expenses for his true plan, taking over the Blorbs which inflates and immobilized Toads, consume a shroom that can inhale everyone exact his plan. He ends up taking the Dark Star take over the Mushroom Kingdom, had it not been power and skill set deceiving enough to rise up he definitely deserves to be recognized For our most evil of Mario's universe, it has to Mansion series, his goal in life was originally paying Luigi any attention after he gets so close his troops, calling the boos his friends and even From then on however, he started to view the thanks to constantly being vacuumed up by him. the nice ghosts to go crazy and fight against E to just experiment on them and no longer cares so angry towards Luigi that he ends up activating universe just for a chance of finally killing laughing at how scared Luigi is after growing angry at Hellen Gravely despite and renouncing his own forces as useless. into a real life of hatred against Luigi, he has done a real good job earning his title For a threat truly out of this world, we have Beginnings, he was raised by a human mother after George fled to Earth after studying about the job of betraying his family and killing them could attack Earth. However, he still has a great spare the great grandson of her, Ninten, and sing a lullaby that Maria used to sing to her. forgiving. However, there was a reason for this, he essentially became mindless and doesn't even of Porky Minch, he is an almighty idiot. So, while to his willingness to go through with his plan up being and his love for his parents, there For our bloodied bronze reward, we have Ridley the Metroid manga, Ridley would have definitely faking sympathy to lull the kid Samus into kill the three year old child, and mocking Samus ate her parents; that's just pure evil. But even force. Originally just another monster under leader of the Space Pirates, traveling the as possible. He causes galactic wide destruction including the complete destruction of Samus's home He's as evil as you would expect someone with the he isn't any higher is that in his actual games, and his heinous actions are kept offscreen underestimate just how vile this space dragon For our second place space terror, rise up, scientist for Corneria, however he has his extreme experiments. Thanks to his most he ends up getting himself arrested, being sent he was, he never owned up to his mistakes Spending his time here, he ends up creating an system. With his acquired powers, he has managed but has destroyed several planets and created quest. The only real positive we can say about Seeing him even as Andross himself was a ghost in him. He even seems proud of Dash for managing the only nice thing we can say, and he's truly a For Nintendo's most vile villain, there and that is Hades. Now, there are plenty seems to enjoy being evil just more than the he seems to enjoy being a villain the most of He is powerful enough to actively harm the entire all human souls and claim them for his realm to amuse him, not even caring for his own soldiers He hates having his rule questioned, and even Of course, he can even just interfere with Even when helping others defeat Aurum, he still and even halting Pit from getting the big or small a conflict can be, if he can he will gladly do it. With such a dangerous how much he enjoys doing what he does, and we are very confident in awarding him as And that wraps up our list! Did we miss Let us know. Don't forget tp hit that notification break down the morality of the characters in your