Transcriber: Monika Szczerba Four years ago I was speaking Sarah said to me, I guess having Asperger's means I believe we need to rethink I educate children on their rights and that says we work with children, I've delivered workshops I say how autism On one hand, it can cause children to experience obsessive traits and disruptive habits. But on the other hand, with incredible gifts in memory, No two children experience I met children who might be non-verbal, children who were genius innovators or children like Sarah, commonly referred to as Asperger syndrome. So when Sarah says to me, &quot;Having Aperger's means I thought, hang on. We don't have this label We have it for children to say &quot;I can&quot;. What lead to that rethink was an earlier meeting Lisa had been talking to me Imagine if, simply because your child doesn't know the world outcasts your son People start to whisper You're called the bad parent. People start to ban you because your child is just too hard work. Enough eyebrows get raised that you're referred where your child is placed as all the experts stare That was Lisa's life. She told me how the experts called her up where they sat her down, as said this, &quot;Lisa, we're sorry to say that everything that you find is actually a problem. Everything that you thought you're actually doing wrong. Your child has high-functioning autism. That means your child can function, but there's lot of things Your child will be withdrawn, obsessive, and have anxiety. It's highly likely so we recommend that you involve I believe we need a rethink, because Lisa is my mother. And I am that child I am living and breathing her rethink. What my mom did for me was she wielded She worked in a background of just family and friends &quot;I can&quot; when I found myself They were the people that always worked on my gifts She used my label to alert my primary and secondary teachers of a type of learning environment And with me, every film she made me watch, had this &quot;I can&quot; enforced to it. My childhood was full of stories This was no dream for mom. I asked her recently That's a very dangerous question (Laughter) She said, &quot;Well, Chris, And I thought, what was so different And she said, &quot;Oh, Chris. You did (Gasps) And I thought, &quot;Whoa.&quot; I was like, &quot;How did you survive me?!&quot; Because the thing she never let me do was I never wanted to be social as a child, and she just refused to let me I would pay down on her and it weren't just it would involve the whole household. One of them was so bad that simply to avoid she picked up my school bag, and it managed to go And I shut up after that one. (Laughter) When my family reached I would be sent to the refuge And my grandparents My grandmother researched exercises and I still use those exercises today. My grandfather knew that I would have a panic attack like football and cricket and so he worked on my motor skills. He taught me sports in private and even though he was he used his mind and his humor to enable me to feel At school, it would've been safe My brother, Steven, read Aladdin, I had this fascination with plotting I managed to do it (Laughter) I had distilled it down into this incredibly visual When my grade 2 teacher, I matched this chart up to her because I just felt I have found No wonder we had these families are way too connected, (Laughter) (Applause) When I took it up to Miss Tey she said, &quot;Oh goodness, Chris, But darling, our assignment is on winter.&quot; (Laughter) &quot;Would you mind drawing And I thought, I've just done a PhD and you want me to draw clouds and rain? (Laughter) That happened a lot to me at nine. I would also tell stories When I was ten years old, and I was watching a midday movie the film &quot;Gone With the Wind&quot; came on, and I couldn't cope with the fact that the daughter of the two had died in that horrible I thought, &quot;What do you mean, There's no sequel? At ten, I'm going to have to And so I actually published I even threw in a sex scene, because that's what my autism (Laughter) Raising me was also entertaining. I was very lucky at school to have the advantage At primary school, that my brain just absorbed She would help me to focus on classwork, because I'd trail off into minor things. She helped me focus. When I was a teenager, it was my friend, Tim, so that I was less vulnerable to bullying. Because, unfortunately, in Australia, 80% of secondary students are targeted in schoolyard bullying. When school was over, because people on the spectrum my friend, Alana, helped me focus on dealing with my anxiety, and looking at campaigning, volunteering and children's advocacy One of my teachers named Christine Horvath who met me at 13 that I just had this different mind, and that I had a way with words What she did was she set up platforms I moved from the kid to the respected story-teller And I've just been following When I think about this network I know what she saw, When they said that I couldn't do things, she just chose to say, &quot;But he can.&quot; When they said I would struggle, she chose to think of strengths. When they said that this would be ugly, she chose to say There is another way My friend and I agree that men and autistic people are from Pluto. (Laughter) We go to this next slide. My brother on the left, Steven, My sister Marian in the middle, And the boy on the right, (Laughter) with his shirt tucked in, his top buttoned-up, and a combover he is from Pluto. (Laughter) I look at it now and I'm like, (Laughter) I'm basically dawning (Laughter) I mean, I basically paved the way. But if we actually entertain Pluto in our Solar System It moves in a different way. And it is the same for children Our orbit or our mind That doesn't mean Hell, we can do most things, Our mind can move Language, spelling, and words But our mind, our orbit, in the area of social skills. But it does adapt. I can't tell you how confusing Let's just say it could take I realised that when Sarah said to me, &quot;I guess that having Asperger's means that she is in an environment where people stare at her different orbit Whereas I came from an environment where my brave mother removed my disorder by creating an environment Twenty years have passed Experts no longer health innovations have come a long way, but in my work I see this stigma and it's going to require all of us Because we all are going to work One in 88 children in USA are diagnosed And these children can bring Here is Leonardo da Vinci. Author Michael Gelb looked at the way he gathered notes, at his visual perception, and concluded that this man Look at the value he gave us. The lesson from da Vinci's life is not that every child is going to be exactly like him. Because they can't be. You know, it's a very broad spectrum. The lesson is, though, that this man had a network that worked on his gifts That network, his &quot;I can&quot; network, started when his father, to a painter friend named Verrocchio And Verrocchio looked at these paintings and instead of pointing a finger &quot;Bring me into that orbit.&quot; Now, consider this. Do you think that if da Vinci he would be able to do now I worry that our tendency to mock kids, is stifling the da Vincis of today. So this is where we can all play a role. We all have a role If you are a child or young person never let a label limit Use this spectrum If you are a parent or a grandparent, They're just leading a focused life. Be confident with the quiet magic Or raise a child who is a loyal friend And if you're a teacher, that make these children socially visible And I promise you, when you find you role there nothing like the sight of watching one of these children from a place of frustration, into a place of confidence. You watch them move from the prison of self-doubt And to my mom who's here today: (Applause)