(upbeat music) - Well, it's been a few years, John Smith, since they had your head How you been getting along? - Real fine, Dan. Real fine you know, as a matter of fact the Indians even have a little name for me now. - Oh, really? - Yeah, they call me running chicken. (laughter) - And Pocahontas? - Yes, I do. (laughter) - I think I'll grab a little shuteye. (laughter) - Ooh, ah - On second thought, (laughter) I need oxygen. I need oxygen. Hey, mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. it's the only way. (laughter) - Where are you from? (laughter) Where are you from? - Bluefield, West Virginia, sir. - That's how you farm, boy? - Yes, sir, I am wheat and soybeans and some tomatoes. - I don't care. (laughter) - You always respect your arms, soldier! - Oh sergeant! - Help him. - Yeah I got it now. - Help us. - Come on quick clowning around. I'll back it up! - Put another quarter in it! - Hold on a minute. - If Jacque could talk, But now that he's dead What can you do? He deserved what he got I don't regret it a bit By the way, you're standing in bull caca. - What? - Right. - I'll flush 'em out, - Chuck, doggone it, wait a minute. (leaves scraping ground) - The fuhrer has been very angry. I wouldn't be surprised personal interest in this case. (laughter) - (Puppet) You're gonna - What? - What do you mean what? You're gonna give us the information? - I'm not going to tell you anything. I don't have to tell you anything at all. - What did he say? - (Puppet) He said he's not (laughter) - You try and get that - (Puppet) Hey Give us the information. - No! - What'd he say? - (Puppet) He still said no. - Okay this is gonna be rough stuff. (laughter) - He's going to hit with that club. (laughter) - (Puppet) How many do you need? (Cluck) (laughter) - What'd he say? (laughter) Maybe if you make him feel at home. You sing him a song. - (Puppet) Okay, hit it. I've been working on the rail road All the live long day I've been working on the rail road To pass the time away. Can you hear the whistle blowing Rise up so early in the morn Here the captain shouting Dinah blow your horn Dinah won't you blow Dinah won't you blow your horn Dinah won't you blow, Dinah won't you blow your horn Someone's in the kitchen with Dinah (laughter) Someone's in the kitchen I know - Mark that thing, you dunce. - Oh don't worry, Captain. I've got the safety on. (bullets whizzing) Now it's on. - You know something? From the back you look the front. I got this when I was in Australia. (laughter) That's real koala. (laughter) Alabama battle range, Gee, I love that kind of talk. (laughter) This horse is never going to race again. I don't care what you say. (laughter) - (Johnny Carson) You - Oh yeah - (Johnny Carson)That's right. You have to score when you can. - Oh is that bad. You don't own me. - Oh. (laughter) I suppose our contract (laughter) (laughter) Waiter, would you bring my drink please? And hold all calls. So, our contract means nothing to you, eh? (laughter) It's getting hot in here, isn't it? - If you think all those about me are true I've got (laughter) Take me home. (horn music) - Got that message? Better send it off to the yard. Let 'em know we're here. (glass breaking) (wings flapping) - You want to write another message? - No. - Oh (laughter) Oh wait a minute. (laughter) You're not supposed to throw and you are throwing stuff at me. What if that were to hit me in the face/ (laughter) Like that. Look at that. He threw his weiner at me. - What's the matter now? - Oh, this girdle's killing me. - Captain, didn't say - Well, I didn't want you to (laughter) - You didn't want me to what? - I didn't want you to be ashamed of me. Of course, we always top that off with a little bit of sauce, as you know. So, that will be nice out there. This will also be nice for you as you gather round the campfire with your friends out there. And just throw one back. Woohoo! Must have passed out on (laughter) Still got her jugs. (laughter) (laughter) (laughter) My life may be in danger. (boing) Don't do that! - I'll chain you two together - Hi, I'm a leper. (laughter) I'll just dry my hands off And I'll be right with you. Get that coat for you. (laughter) Well, they're bone dry now. (laughter) Achoo! - You want to stop fooling around? (laughter) Come on. (laughter) - This also entitles you with you and use while we're fixing yours. (laughter) We've got all kinds. Little ones, you want a little one? Got one that's in the shape of an owl. - In the shape of an owl? - Doesn't have any hands. This is the hour. And this is the minutes. Want to see quarter to three? (laughter) I'm not very good at but I did receive a I would just like to pass on to you. It means a great deal to me. Dear Tim, We know this is your day but we hope you'll take a Our thoughts are with you always. Love, the gang at the (laughter) Hey fun for the whole family. Now featuring the new Mark Twain hole. Complete with paddle of the Old South. Take a break at the 19th hole. And try one of Andy's (whistling) (laughter) I really love me fruit and fibre. - No that's fruit and fiber. - No, no fruit and fibre See it says right there F-I-B-R-E, fibre. - But it's still pronounced fiber. - No, no, no mon ami, with romantic tropical fruit. We have sweet pineapple, and high fibre flakes. (laughter) You are a happy fellow. - I would imagine, I guess at your height you actually, you actually than the other players. - Johnny, at my height, I not I smell a different game. (laughter) - (Tim) (sound of an elephant blowing) (laughter) I saw these siamese elephants (laughter) They was joined at the end And this trainer would back feet like that and stretched like that. Then this little monkey would come out. (laughter) Walk out there and dance the merengue right out in the middle. Kind of felt sorry for them. They couldn't go like the other elephants when they go (elephant blowing). (laughter) All they could do was (laughter) One would sneeze, the other's - Go on mama. - You sure that little (laughter) (banging on metal) (laughter) (drilling) - Zombo is the male and So, hi zombo, hi zombie. The children are called zumbibis. However many there are If there are four than zombibibibi. - Glad to get rid of this car. (laughter) (laughter) (laughter) - Fire! (laughter) (laughter) - Come on Tompkins! Now where is that map? - Well, sir, I tattooed it on my tummy. - You took a secret on your stomach? - Yes, sir. - What would you do if (laughter) 26 million men in the war and All right, let's look at that map. - Right, sir. - All right, I think we'll (laughter) Look at this secret, Vincent. (laughter) Vincent, I'm going to let you in on I have been (Howling) (laughter) - Mrs. Wiggins, I wonder if - Hello - Mrs. Wiggins, I wonder if you - Hello, hello - I was only allowed My wife has me on a diet to eat roughage. And, so, it's the lettuce and the bran, hay and I've eaten so much pass whicker furniture. (laughter) So, just little chairs, you know, (laughter) I'd like to thank my kids that we have actually my wife and I out of the front of our house. (laughter) It's been a big year for us. It really has. Okay, novacaine, here novacaine Take a firm hold of the hypodermic needle. (laughter) There will be a little bit of pain and then numbness will set in. (laughter) Well, I guess we'll get right to it. (laughter) I'll just give you a little shot here. (laughter) We'll be right with you. For those of you that have and movies and police reports, you get a pretty good life has gone and you know that you and relax and probably not learn anything from all of this but at