Hi, I'm Amaii! And I HATE TIERLISTS! but alas, the urge to rank Which has the best comics to read? Where is the best for creators to post? Which are most affordable to use? I have mulled over such and I figure I'm not the only one who's curious. So, instead of using something as I opted for a point system! Though... after going through all the I kind of understand why people use tierlists. They may suck, but they sure are simple... As usual, this video has closed caption Anyways, criteria is as follows: Comic variety - This takes into account how many genres are available (and and how varied the art styles are. Search Features - This essentially measures Is there a tailored algorithm? Tags or sub genres? Creator Features - Is our first Can you customize your are there many tools to interact can you add things like GIFs Creator Monetisation - Is the second How many avenues for monetisation are available Paywalling - This is monetisation How many comics can you read for free? How affordable or reasonable are the I will note that I am all for and don't think paywalling is inherently bad, but also acknowledge that the Therefore, more aggressive Platform Popularity - How many people Can you join fandoms or Ease of use - How accessible is the platform? Are there apps and a website? Is Each category will be rated on a scale from 1-3, aside from the creator categories that can get a That means a platform can I'll convert each point score into a Speaking of the final ranking, the results So, to make things fair, I'll do two rankings, one with creators factored in, and one without. I'll also give a top 3 ranking for each category so you know which platforms best Of course, I must clarify that I will be biased. I use many of these platforms and so this ranking isn't going to be 100% objective. I recommend checking out any Also, I won't be ranking every platform I've tried to only include ones I've used, am Anyways, enough of my yapping! First on our alphabetically sorted list is: GlobalComix GlobalComix is a smaller, western comic oriented It allows for self publishing Many (maybe most?) of their licensed comics Variety: Since it allows for self publishing, There's a lot of different comics in a lot (Allegedly over 60 thousand!) I think the lack of manhwa style comics is Search: It's pretty good, actually! You can even filter by art style or I don't love the discovery page, though. It's really just a monotonous, Creators: As I got at in the search section, you You can also post in both scroll and page format. The actual page customisation and there's also no music or GIF support. 2 again. Monetisation: Is very... in depth, actually. There's crowdfunding, donations, there's even a whole comic job board! Easy 3. Paywalling: Many of the licensed comics but indie comics are free to read! It's balanced, 2. Popularity: It's not tiny by any means, but Unfortunately I can only give it a 1.5 Ease of use: There's both a website and an app... but this is actually where my and why I never chose to post there. The website is awful! It looks really empty, kinda I still can't figure it out. The app is better, but offline reading requires a paid subscription which is It gets a... probably biased 1.5 from me. Globalcomix gets a final Don't question the math, I've Just trust me when I say it's correct... Next up is Lezhin: This is a Korean platform that started It's catalog consists almost exclusively It's very popular for its mature and BL comics. Variety: Is very lacking. It's a very romance heavy platform, with Its catalog also isn't very large in general. 1 Search: It has tags, a discovery Its search capabilities support making it fairly easy to find comics. I have no gripes, 3. It gets zeros for creator as while it does accept submission, Paywalling: This is probably where It's egregious, with the vast majority When I checked, it only had 12 titles that allowed Popularity: Lezhin is definitely a name people However, I feel like I don't see it talked it doesn't seem like many Ease of use: It has a website but it is a little slow loading and Lezhin gets 8 and a half Manta... Manta? I'm going to say Manta. Is also a site that was originally started in It's a very romance based site that only but... you'll see. Variety: Is also lacking, as I The catalog is quite small and they after a certain amount of time, 1.5 because there is a certain Search: The discovery page is nice There's just not many filters in general, but that's not the end of the world considering Manta gets 0's in the creator categories Paywalling: As mentioned earlier, You only need a single, relatively cheap or you did, until they added dozens of comics I respect the subscription so Popularity: Pretty similar in size to Ease of use: Both the app and website look really The reading experience is nice too. 2.5. Manta gets 9.5 points in total, or 28% NamiComi: Bias warning for this one as I love NamiComi. It's a western based platform They aim to provide a variety of tools as well as interact with their reader-bases. Variety: There's over a thousand comics, all indie in various styles and genres, Since there's a lot of up-and-coming artists, some people may not find the comics Search: Easily one of the best out there. There's an abundance of ways including tags, publication There's also a great discovery The lack of algorithmic recommendations Creators: NamiComi is built for creators. There's decent page customizability, GIF support, a social media feed and even emotes and stickers. NamiComi is still a developing platform so Monetization: There's going to be ad revenue, with there being "creator rewards" Plus there's my favorite feature of where creators can set up tiers and Paywalling: Aside from a few series where there's practically no paywalling on the site. 3 Popularity: The site is growing at a healthy with its most popular comics only having Ease of use: Navigation is fairly easy, though I do hear some creators struggling The IOS app is also not yet NamiComi gets 17 points, a score of 75% Pocket comics: This is actually a site of Japanese It works pretty similarly to Lezhin and Manta, Variety: A pretty standard genre selection. Despite there being both Korean the style diversity isn't Search: It's underwhelming in terms of genres For example, if I search "revenge", I'll Nothing for our creator Paywalling: Generally, you can read around 3 with some of those being Either way, the paywalling is quite high. 1 Popularity: Out of Lezhin, this is the first site that actually and some series actually have millions of views! But again, I don't hear it Ease of use: I actually find bar a couple of buttons with weird Pocket comics gets 9 points, 25% Next up, Tapas, known years ago as Tapastic, is one Though it used to be the go to for significant changes to the has somewhat caused it to Variety: This is one of the few and self publishing, so the variety There is a huge amount of copy-paste Search: It's AMAZING! There's a full nice discovery sections that constantly rotate. It does its job and does it well, Creators: The page customisation but file size limits make things frustrating. There's GIF support but only if Discovery has also become very but at least there's support for mature comics? 2 Monetisation: Is not very good. and "Ink", their in app currency, The early access program is Paywalling: It's pretty bad for licensed comics, Most comics I see are wait-until-free. However, the self published comics can Popularity: Second only to Ease of use: It's fine! The apps and Though I think navigation has I'm not gonna be too stingy. 3 Tapas gets 17 points, which is 75% Next, tappytoon: Tappytoon follows suit being a Korean platform that offers It's been operating in english since 2016, and honestly feels very similar to Variety: Is actually really good for a It offers a decent amount of series including some really well loved Unfortunately it is still skewed Search: Another really good Theres a proper tagging system though the actual genre Nothing for creators or monetisation, but... Paywalling: is pretty bad. There is some wait-until-free series, but which is a very unfortunate downfall for what is Popularity: Its another platform but as i said, it does offer For GL fans, "I love amy" is one of the more Ease of use: It's a really nice site and There's HD reading and a separate mature section, so you'll likely have a nice That's 10.5 points, or 34%. The highest score out of the platforms Web... comics! You thought I'd say webtoon, huh? Webcomics is a platform I... genuinely This is a platform offering self-publishing, Variety: Oh boy, yep... it's I can guarantee you will not see titles anything Search: It's quite average, honestly. The genre variety is somewhat that you're only able to access The discover page is fine... 2 Creators: There's a separate section which is really confusing other sites call their Discovery seems limited since series and page customisation isn't very in depth. 1.5 Monetisation: So this site is interesting It has tipping and ad revenue, if you upload a really long I imagine this is to incentivise more comics There's also payments for becoming "exclusive" Since the lucrativeness of the Paywalling: I... kinda had a hard time There's ad passes, gems, and memberships as Popularity: The comics have and a decent amount of comments... that being said, I also rarely I think webcomics is like the dark web of 2 again because who even cares at this point. Ease of use: This platform is weird to use. It's slow loading, filled with popups, and like tags being at the bottom... also what even are search terms and It feels like I'll get a virus here, 1. Webcomics gets 13 points, or 50%, which is way higher than i'm comfortable with... And finally, last but Webtoon: The current industry It offers translated series, English It's been a beloved site hosting but recent controversies have caused Variety: With hundreds of thousands of comics spread across over a dozen Search: For the amount of series on the platform, Webtoon should be ashamed Tags and filters are pretty much non-existent making it near impossible to search The discover page and algorithm is great, Creators: Webtoon is pretty average and it can get away with Page customisation is limited and there's Monetisation: In terms of diversity, It offers ad revenue, ad based The only downside is that the requirements Still, from experience the so despite everything I'll give them a 2.5 Paywalling: Webtoon gets way too I actually think it's one of the Yes, there is daily pass and fast pass, but almost every series on the platform can I say almost because there's a small $1 to read the ending? 2.5 Popularity: There's no competition. 3. Ease of use: It's generally pretty easy to use, but there are a couple accessibility The first one is restricting reading on and the other is it's very poor and That's why I'm giving it a 2. Webtoon gets 16.5 which is 72% Phew, finally done. I wonder how many people skipped to this part? No shame~ Let's get ranking! In first place for creators, we have NamiComi and Tapas with scores of 75% Followed closely by Webtoon with 72. In third is GlobalComix with 60, and Now let's move over to the scores This is where numbers are going to shift In first place, boasting a large library of comics with a massive 80%. In second is Webtoon, which has a nice edge giving it 70% Dropping from first equal which while being a lovely emerging platform, can't quite compete with the Keep an eye on this one, though! Next we have a platform that With an impressive 55%. This should definitely be on people's radars if Afterwards is Globalcomix and Manta at 45% Then the certified sus sites, Finally in last place we have Lezhin. (sorry BL fans) And to end things off, let's If there were more than 3 platforms within The top 3 for variety are: Webtoon, Tapas, and GlobalComix The top 3 for search are: Tapas, Lehzin, and Tappytoon The top 3 for creators are: NamiComi, Webtoon, and Tapas The top 3 for monetisation are: NamiComi, Globalcomix, and Webtoon The top 3 for paywalling are: NamiComi, Webtoon, and Tapas... and for the record, the worst are The top 2 for popularity are: Webtoon and Tapas... The rest were kinda nebulous and nothing actually comes near the size and no- (Struggling to pronounce &quot;Notoriety&quot;) Nothing actually comes near the size of those two. The top 3 for ease of use are: Tappytoon, Tapas, and Manta. So what did we learn here? One: that my biases definitely haha... Two: That the big platforms are big for a but with great power comes great responsibilities, and these platforms are also known (allegedlyyyy, alright?) and Three: That there's actually That was actually one of the In light of the recent I've seen readers and creators alike I know webtoon still ranked high on this list. It is a pretty good platform, affordable, You should take advantage but brand loyalty will do you no good. Explore the many options out there! Did you see a platform that caught your eye? Learn about something new? Or did you already know of all these platforms? Let me know in the comments! Also, what do you think of my new layout? I saw some people in the comments mention so I wanted to put some effort into I'm still open to more feedback so I can improve! I also do apologize for yet I've been working on something very big, and will be sharing a video Will you see another video from me this year? Maybe... You can find out by subscribing! Okay, that's all! Happy webcomic reading everyone~ I hope you have a lovely morning, day, Bye bye! First on our alphabetically sorted list is... Nothing, 'cause I'm gonna stop the recording now! Woo~ Haha! You got PRANKED!