(water spraying) (birds chirping) (drills buzzing) (bell ding) (glass breaks) (water spraying) (glass breaks) (Mark Laughing) - Yeah. When the Super Soaker was first invented it was an absolute game So now that I'm a dad and I decided to once again level up my water fighting The Guinness World Record at seven feet long as a follow up, of course, to my world record largest Nerf gun. But she doesn't just look good. So I'm gonna show you how we made it how she stacks up against and then we'll talk about the But first, let's just take the destructive power of a stream of water traveling at 272 miles per hour. (upbeat music playing) (liquid splatters) (chimes playing) (upbeat music playing) - [Mark] Watermelons are how she would fare in a real water fight in addition to running some further tests. But before we get to those, let's talk about how we Together with my buddy we created a skeleton for the gun. In fact, I won't show it here but if you want all the gory details on how to construct a large he uploaded a full video on called I Like to Make Stuff. I'll put a link in the video description. And in the end after some EVA foam and a So let's take a look under the hood to see the design I arrived The first thing you should notice is that most of the mass is down here That's because having a low center of mass is really helpful for for something really large like this. All the components you see of all the components It operates on the exact same principles. So let's start by talking And to do that I figure the actual original inventor one of my personal engineering Of course, one of my was how he even came up with this idea. - You see, I got the idea in 1982 I was at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory working on the Galileo In fact, I was doing experiments on my own in the bathroom in the evenings. I wanted to develop a water as a working fluid [Indistinct]. I had made these nozzles, and as I shot the stream of and I saw how powerful it was I thought to myself a high pressure, high performance water - As I talk more with Lonnie, he showed me the very first prototype We talked about some of For example, this tank doubles as the pressure container. So each time you pump, you are forcing more and more air into this spot, which makes it more and more which increases the pressure. And when you pull the trigger there is pushing down the only place it can go is through this tube and out the gun. And so this is why this tube is intentionally bent down like this because no matter which it's always gonna be below the water line and therefore water will And so now in our case, instead of pumping we fill this tank up with And then this tank is filled with about two gallons of water. And just like the Super Soaker, it has a tube that runs all the way down and is open at the bottom. So then this gas is at and it wants to get out. So when you pull the it pushes down on the top of the water which forces it up this tube And the trigger is just But I thought it would be lame if every time you wanted a fire you had to turn some handle. So we have pneumatic piston here that's also powered by the nitrogen. And then we have a to some double A batteries And so when you push this and allows water to flow through until I release the button. I'll put a link to the CAD files we made along with a build list of in the video description if you wanna make something similar. Oh, one final cool feature that's held on with rare-earth magnets. So after you've shot a bunch and need to refill the water and the gas, you can just easily access the fill valves through this window here. And now back to the gratuitous violence. (upbeat music playing) (eerie music playing) - [Mark] Oh, wow. It's a double rainbow all the way. There's some context on The original Super Soaker and the pressure from is just a little more than around 50 PSI. A fire truck hose comes in at 300 PSI. And this beast is eight times at 2,400 PSI, which in One final really cool you can swap out the nozzle depending on what you're shooting. So this nozzle has a really which leads to a high stream velocity but lower overall water output. So it's good for cutting Then this nozzle is basically so it's a little lower velocity but it's the maximum water output. So it's good for getting or breaking things with force. (glass breaks) (eerie music) So now with the gun fully tested I wanted to see how it would So we got together for a party but to make things fair, But of course I got first pick. (upbeat music) (group yelling) (water splattering) (group screaming) (child crying) (group yelling) (water spraying) - [Mark] So it worked awesome and I completely destroyed them until I ran out of water. (group yelling) Thanks for watching. (upbeat music playing) (static sounds)