(game music chimes) - [Falcon] Easter eggs are written into the DNA of video games. From the first reported Easter egg in the Atari 2,600 game &quot;Adventure&quot;, video games and secrets We gathered some Easter eggs up that make us feel like in a video game. Hi, folks, it's Falcon. And today on Gameranx, the 20 craziest Easter At number 20 we'll start from the &quot;Silent Hill 2&quot; remake. The dog ending in &quot;Silent Hill 2&quot; is one of the most infamous (dog barks) (James speaks foreign language) - [Falcon] And it returns in full HD glory in the &quot;Silent Hill 2&quot; remake. The dog ending is a dose of pure silliness in one of the most dramatic which made it even funnier when we originally stumbled In this ending, our discovers the spooky town of Silent Hill has a mastermind in control of everything. And the mastermind in question doesn't have opposable thumbs. Next to a pinnacle hotel room, you can find a key that with a dog at the controls. When James confronts the dog, it doesn't, you know, look This is a bad dog, a very bad dog. Did it come up with Like, is that the dog's creation? Did it create Pyramid Head? This has some serious lore repercussions. Well, it would if it wasn't a big joke. Getting this ending is a lot Originally you'd have to to get the dog ending. Now you grab everything in the remake. And the better graphics make (James speaks foreign language) - [Falcon] At number in &quot;Doom Eternal&quot;. The Dopefish is the developer And we're glad that even in massive games like &quot;Doom Eternal&quot;. The Dopefish is a weird that first appeared in You may not know what &quot;Commander Keen&quot; is, but you've heard of the developers, id Software, the developers of &quot;Doom&quot;. This silly looking green in games developed by id Software and all the guys that made &quot;Doom&quot;. Wherever these guys went, You can find Dopefish Easter So many we can't even list them. And the Dopefish is &quot;Doom Eternal&quot; was meant to bridge the gap between old school boomer shooters and the next generation FPS by being painfully, brutally difficult, and it cements that legacy by continuing the long story of Dopefish. You can find the fully modeled 3D asset in the cult base level. It's one of the earlier and you could look at the Dopefish in all of his green plastic glory. (gunshots) And number 18 is the secret cow level from &quot;Diablo 2 Remastered&quot;. We gotta give it up for the classics. Some of our favorite childhood games had amazing Easter eggs. And the secret cow level Discovering this secret, after playing through expanded our tiny brains and made video games feel And the secret level returns which is one of the best ways to play an already awesome game. If you want criticism of modern Blizzard, just know that &quot;Diablo 4&quot; That's what we're gonna say on that. The Easter egg transports your hero into a field filled with It's outright silly. (character grunts) It's completely unexpected too. It's the right kind of nonsense that developers haven't forgotten about. There's still homages in games like &quot;Minecraft Dungeons&quot;. We all love fighting big old cows, and the secret cow level for grinding loot in Getting the Easter egg involved making a special portal appear in the starting act And it's a quest we love completing. When there's an item in a video game and we have no idea what it does, we're praying for a Wirt's Leg situation. Maybe that suspiciously to something amazing, you know? (demonic cows moo) At number 17 is Thor's It's a quick one for anyone and for the early Marvel Studios movies. Located in the level there's a hidden hammer after completing a It looks like a cute little reference, but fans kept prodding at the Easter egg and discovered more. It's not just a reference There's a little more to it. Defeat all the enemies in the and the hammer will start to spark, and there is a prompt to pick it up. I guess sniping bad guys gives It says you're not worthy but you do get a nice consolation prize. You can't use the hammer, but you do get infinite This weird Easter egg because we've known about Thor's Hammer, but it took eight years before players discovered to this weird secret. (storm roars) At number 16, is everyone from &quot;Just Cause 4&quot;. Sometimes cow levels are not enough. Sometimes we need to be the cow, and we need everyone else to be a cow too. There's a hilariously weird that transforms everyone and yourself into a walking bovine being. It's gotta be one of the we've ever seen in a video game. And it's really easy to find. If you know where to look, your hand gliding hero can grab it very, very early in the game. Located on a specific, you can grab the cow gun and Transforming people only They'll do all their just in a big unwieldy cow body. Transformed cows can drive cars and shoot back if they're making it one of the most useless (gunshots) (car horn honks) - [Character] Engaging! (gunshots) - [Falcon] In fact, the only is earning the cowmouflage achievement for zapping 10 soldiers. And you too can become a big old beef boy. Just use the alt fire mode to turn into a grappling It's one of the goofiest in a very long time. (gunshots) At number 15 is playable Zork We're already dipping back into but some of these games just In &quot;Black Ops Cold War&quot;, it has one where you can if you have a lot of patience for old school text adventures. In a single player campaign players can unlock old school to play whenever you'd like. They're all collectibles, and but there's another even bigger Easter egg for fans of really old (gaming music) In your home base, there's a hidden computer by solving a simple puzzle On the computer, there's a but the most important thing By typing &quot;Zork&quot; into the digital keyboard and pressing enter, you'll launch one of the of all time. Zork is basically forgotten today and basically got big I mean, the Gameranx crew. I don't even mean the audience. Like, I'm an old turd Also I meant old bird, not turd. Forget I said that. It is an important footnote If you're really, really you can try to play by typing commands and attempting to escape the Do not enter any dark you will be eaten by a Gru. At number 14 is killing Kraid &quot;Metroid Dread&quot; encourages in a way the previous games haven't. While it's always been &quot;Dread&quot; turns it into an with a total unique if you sequence break. In Dairon, it's possible to sequence break by traveling through an extreme heat room before you get protection. If Samus gets three energy parts, it's possible to find midway through a heat The health boost is required and you get the morph ball bomb upgrade. To exit the room where you'll need to get another to reach an area you're And getting the morph ball bomb makes Kraid a whole lot easier. (Kraid roars) In the Kraid boss area, Samus can now reveal a in the lower right corner of the arena. And after launching into you'll get your shot to and blow up Kraid from the inside out. The developers actually hid a program in all these elaborate interactions. It's not just a glitch. It's a purposeful method you in a very fun way. (Kraid roars) At number 13, cheats in &quot;Homefront: The Revolution&quot;. The &quot;TimeSplitters 2&quot; demo in is a classic little Easter egg. A fan favorite game You can't go wrong. We've already talked about Zork existing in fully playable form, but Now this was a wacky colorful console FPS that a lot of us remember fondly as being the silliest It was a really fun and it's beloved for a reason. (character grunts) And it was included in playable form on an in-game arcade cabinet In the last major area on you'll explore a prison as your HQ. There's an arcade cabinet Normally you'd only have access to a small chunk of the game. Seemed like the end of the story, but many years later, a revealed that this wasn't a normal version of &quot;TimeSplitters 2&quot;. It's a full HD remaster that By inputting cheat codes, and multiplayer maps in &quot;TimeSplitters 2&quot;, arguably making &quot;Homefront: of &quot;TimeSplitters 2&quot; and the best way to play We'd say you shouldn't reference but we're also happy and that we can get the best I mean, it's &quot;Homefront: But still, &quot;TimeSplitters 2&quot;. At number 12 is killer The humble egg has become a meme in the &quot;Resident Evil&quot; series, and the gold egg finally gets an upgrade in the &quot;Resident Evil 4&quot; remake. In five, the rotten egg was and could kill most There is no rotten egg in But we got the next big thing. The gold egg is a rare item that will sometimes drop but the chances are so just grabbing one of the (gate clanks) These eggs can be used to defeat one of the most Later in the story, Leon has to take on a mutated the caretaker of the castle funhouse you've been running through for the last segment of the game. Salazar is a much more It's got slimy old tentacles, and he's barfing up giant He's a gross guy. And we absolutely want And the best way to do If you manage to score you'll deal massive damage to Salazar. While it doesn't kill him A few more hits and the boss fight's done. Normally eggs are totally harmless. You can eat the gold egg or sell it for a stack of cash, but we're gonna save this puppy for Salazar every single time. I don't know why it does I have to assume it's because it's funny. Like, that's the explanation I've got. - [Salazar] Y-you worm! - [Falcon] At number 11 is This game is so overflowing we can't talk about all of them. It's a game where solving Easter eggs becomes a passion project The developers never expected anyone to solve the deepest darkest And we know that's true because we found the and it says as much. This is a game where fans created entire to help solve the biggest But our favorite Easter egg, it's a lot easier to solve than that. You won't need a notebook Practically every screen of &quot;Animal Well&quot; is packed with new critters. Sometimes they wanna fight, sometimes they don't do anything, some of 'em just exist to add mystery to a very mysterious world. And one of our favorites is the groundhog. This little creature and retreats whenever you get close. It's a type of game where If you interact with an animal, there must be a solution somewhere. And the solution is deceptively simple. Change the date to Groundhog's and the groundhog will leave its hole. It gives you an item that and that makes this acute Easter egg that's also incredibly useful. (eerie music) At number 10, Conan O'Brien's which is, I mean, that game of celebrity actors showing up in Hideo Kojima's weirdest game yet. Some of these cameos are While Guillermo del Toro is there's a far sillier who's a lot easier to miss, let's say. Located in the second you can find the former talk in his own personal bunker. - Hey, Sam. Sam Bridges! Welcome to our summer home by the falls. Well, thanks for making the trip. I've always wanted to meet you. I know what you're thinking. Is that an otter on my head - [Falcon] It's weird enough to see Conan's giant lanky body but he's here for more than just a laugh. This very, very silly human being gives the player a very silly hat. And the otter hat unlocks the across water, making crossing Oddly, it's one of the most It makes you swim like an otter, which means good, like very good. (water splashing) It looks silly, but it's I mean, everyone knows wearing animal hats imparts their powers onto you. Anyone that's played a At number nine is ending it all early in &quot;Baldur's Gate 3&quot;. Now this is a once in a It's an RPG that's so detailed, basically every contingency Every choice subtly changes And you can kill whoever you want, screwing up developer plans completely if you got the patience. And there's one hilarious if you bring a very specific character to a very specific moment in the story. In act two of &quot;Baldur's Gate 3&quot;, you'll eventually meet the three leaders in the cult of the Absolute. These villains have previously in the background of the story, but you'll finally find all If you're feeling particularly vengeful, you can pull the trigger If you bring Gale, a wizard that's a walking, you can unleash his explosive power instantly ending the cult threat and taking the three villains (magic whirs) When we realized this was It's not exactly a good ending though. For plot reasons, there's still than these three conspirators. If you truly want to end the you have to complete act three. But I mean, we can't help it. Blowing up the primary villains - [Narrator] A plague of illithids will soon descend on the Sword Coast, enslaving all they do not infect. It is an ending of sorts. Though not the one destiny - [Falcon] At number eight from &quot;Tears of the Kingdom&quot;. You don't mess with Cuccos or Cuccos or whatever. I've always said Cuckos, but I mean that's taken in recent years. They're domesticated birds and attacking 'em has been a bad idea for more than 30 years. Assaulting chickens in &quot;The Legend Zelda&quot; triggers a cut scene where the victimized summoning an infinite army to instantly retaliate against (Cucco cries) (Cuccos squawk) Normally it's Link, but they'll They'll attack mini bosses too. (Cuccos squawk) If you wanna do that, you The real secret of the birds is they drop useful I mean, anybody who's knows not to mess with chickens. But if you harass 'em just a little bit, you can collect a valuable resource every time you visit town. As long as you don't attack they won't summon the death squad. This Easter egg's been Nice to see &quot;Tears of the At number seven is the singing the 2022 &quot;Saints Row&quot;, the reboot. Not anyone's idea of a success, but I mean, we don't need that is Volition's end. Our favorite joke in the game is also one of our favorite Found in the southwest corner that is (stumbles) It's accessible by helicopter. Jesus Christ. So anyway, there's a singing bush there. Cloudy all day Home, home on the range - [Falcon] You take a picture of a cactus and you'll permanently for your gang headquarters. And anyone with an appreciation will understand the reference immediately. It comes straight out of &quot;The Three Amigos&quot;. The three bumbling Hollywood in the Mexican desert, involves a high pitched singing bush. Now you can add the If you really like old cowboy songs in a really annoying voice, Unfortunately, the rest of the game. Many years ago Many years ago The old gray mare She ain't what she used - [Falcon] At number six is Doesn't matter how HD your game is, if you recreate the first level of &quot;Doom&quot;, we're gonna recognize it immediately. And that's exactly what of &quot;Dying Light 2&quot; did. In a game with absolutely no guns, there is a shotgun you can acquire by completing a long arduous and secret locations you'll Complete 'em all, you get the Easter egg. And it took us a long, long time. But you enter the secret E1M1 level with a double barrelled shotgun. (rock music) (gunshots) This is genuinely the in &quot;Dying Light 2&quot;. And while you can use it for a little while in you don't get to keep it permanently. That awesome shotgun, (gunshots) At number five is painting battle droids in &quot;Jedi: Survivor&quot;. This game gives you some pretty weird stuff to find too. The weirdest moment in the game that doesn't involve the Ogdo Bogdo, making a surprise return. There's a surprise old school Easter egg found in a dark cave. Near Rambler's Reach Outpost, there's a cave with a very, Squeezing into the impossible with battle droids painting The battle droids are about as good at it as they are at shooting Jedi, but this is such a strange scene, we have to put it on our list. I'm always excited to find by enterprising developers. This strange room doesn't give or permanent health boost or anything, but it does warm our hearts. It's so nice seeing in ways nobody, or rather, almost nobody At number four is big head mode in the &quot;Grand Theft Auto The weirdly buggy &quot;Grand Theft Auto Trilogy sort of butchers three classic games playable on modern platforms. That's changed with a It's actually quite a bit better now, including all of the atmospheric effects and you can't see from one side of the map to the other from any point. It's actually way better. Like, it's so much different. They took the Grove Street like they aren't the developers anymore. They hired somebody else who But one silver lining is they put big head mode in. Almost nothing has big head mode. It's one of our favorite silly cheats, and it appears in lots What makes the goofy is that it uses one of the to activate. Including giving lots of extra the Konami code gives everyone a big head. We've talked about the Konami code before. It's a code from &quot;Contra&quot; on the NES, and it wormed itself and then other games. Like, tons of games use the Konami code 'cause it's just a known thing. And the Konami code is pretty tricky here. You really gotta input it very quickly for it to work in these games. Once you've memorized the it's like pure nostalgia for We love big head mode in any game. It was never in &quot;Grand (gunshots) At number three is in &quot;Command &amp; Conquer It's the perfect recreation that deserved way, way more This version captures while helping us forget how clunky these old games used to be. One feature we love that you don't find in a lot of modern games is Clicking around the FMV title menu will unlock hidden levels in each game. In the first, if you click you hear a dinosaur. (dinosaur roars) Click all of them, you get dumped into a level It's Jurassic Park mayhem. (gunshots) - [Game] Unit lost. - [Falcon] And it's actually In that game, clicking while holding Shift sends you to a stage with killer giant ants. I guess really any giant ants But that's old school sci-fi weirdness. (dramatic music) We're always gonna with weird new enemies you in the game. Even better, it's one Easter figure out themselves accidentally. - [Character] Affirmative! (gunshots) Agree. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. (gunshots) - [Game] Unit lost. - [Character] Affirmative. Yes, sir. - [Falcon] At number two is Probably one of the most in history. We know the input by heart. We pretty much try it in And in &quot;Street Fighter 6&quot;, it doesn't matter how much you know that. Ryu and his fireball attack to &quot;Street Fighter&quot;. I mean, for lack of a it's just iconic. I don't like using that word too often, but I mean, that's what it is. To earn the Hadouken, X in &quot;Mega Man X&quot; has to all the heart tanks, all the energy tanks, and get all the boss weapons. After getting the last power up in Armored Armadillo's stage, you have to drop into (upbeat music) How anybody figured But after doing all this, you find a capsule that (dramatic gaming music) - Hadouken! Hadouken! - [Falcon] The killer and can kill most bosses in a single hit. It's pretty weaken in &quot;Street Fighter&quot; and it's well not much but it doesn't stink. At number one is the Infinity We've been circling for a while here. &quot;Call of Duty&quot; did Thor's hammer, but the rebooted &quot;God took it a step further. They gave you the Infinity Gauntlet. Collecting the Shattered Gauntlet of Ages, players would be able to by finding missing gems. Slide in three of the by completing some of the you unlock the true power of the glove. Instead of a simple punch and shockwave, the gauntlet fires a massive Not quite as impressive as which, you know, vaporizes or, you know, basically You just had to snap your finger. But this gauntlet isn't half bad. And it really took us by surprise. Who would've guessed that would include one of the wackiest (Kratos grunts) And that's 20 Easter eggs and made us pretty hungry There's so many in video games, we can't cover 'em all in a single list. So let us know in the comments, which Easter egg shocked you the most, if you want to see us cover We have a sick desire to see them all. So the more obscure, the better. Beyond that, just let in the comments. If you like this video, click like. If you're not subscribed, We upload brand new videos Best way to see them first So click subscribe. Don't forget to enable notifications. And as always, we thank you very much for watching this video. I'm Falcon. You can follow me on We'll see you next time