(upbeat music) - Hello, friends, we're back here at the Vigilante Coffee lab. And today, we're gonna talk from the beginning of time, when human beings first discovered it, to present day, where we in specialty coffee shops So where did it all start, and how did we get to where we are now? The legend has it, in a faraway land which is present-day Ethiopia, that a goat herder named by his goats consuming The shrub was a coffee tree, much like the one behind me. As the goats consumed the berries, they got a burst of energy. Kaldi, the goat herder, noticed this, and decided to try those berries himself. He, too, got a burst of energy. Recognizing this was special, he brought those berries That shaman then took that and bam, we got the first cup of coffee. More or less, this is the story that human beings tell ourselves on the discovery of coffee. It's romantic, it has a and truthfully, it's a great way for us to introduce coffee to the masses. Now, today, in Ethiopia, upwards of 15 million for a portion of their livelihoods, as well as coffee grows Now, it's important to understand that this is the birthplace of all coffee. That Ethiopians did drink, on a regular basis, it became a huge part of their culture, they weren't cultivating So while Ethiopia is given the credit for the first discovery of coffee and for coffee growing wild Yemen deserves the credit for the first commercial coffee farm, where production of the coffee and this happened around 575 A.D. Imagine if the Ethiopians any of their coffee to they'd still have a lock on The Yemeni, recognizing that they tried to do just that, and they succeeded for They would boil the coffee seeds before they were allowed to be sold, meaning that you couldn't and try to replant them in other places. The Arab world, and specifically for the commercialization of coffee, and the very first coffee farm. Now, as you start to study coffee history, there are certain terms that come up. One, for example, that we all know, whether we know it or not, is the Mocha Java. Where does the term Mocha Java originate? Well, originally, it comes from the port of Mocha, in Yemen, where all the coffee was exported from. Now, if we're being honest, we have to look at colonization, and follow that around the world and you will find the cash crop of coffee right alongside of it. Now, one of the first the Dutch were not when they went to these specifically, within Indonesia. They had ruled there for over 300 years, and they treated the using them for labor, resources, So they were having access and they succeeded, in 1614, in first transporting a Once they got that plant there, it lived amongst the gardens It became commonplace for a lot of royalty to gift other royalty coffee plants. This was the beginning of how coffee came to be around the world. By 1658, the Dutch had begun and one of those places at that time known as Ceylon. This was the first place of the very first commercial That plant that they went on to become the progeny for over 17 million coffee plants grown throughout that island. However, the experiment was short-lived. Due to inclement weather the plants all failed. However, they didn't give up there, and they attempted it a second time. By 1699, after success in Ceylon, the Dutch decided to plant which was known as the Netherland specifically within the island of Java. Today, we've all heard and this is where that originates from. By the 17th century, the French wanted to get and the Dutch, they gifted a coffee tree. That coffee plant went on to live in gardens within the until they decided to and plant it in their colonies as well. That particular plant went for all coffee within South the Caribbean, and Mexico. Now, as we go through coffee history, there are particular what these people went through to make coffee a worldwide commodity. A French Naval officer by decided that he wanted to transport the coffee and start the first French The first journey from failed miserably. His coffee tree died in transit. On the second attempt, he planted the coffee and used his own water rations so as to be able to keep the plant alive throughout the journey. A lot of his shipmates that he had this motivation and to create something special. I'll read you a line directly from the journal &quot;Water was lacking to such an extent that for more than a month, I was obliged to share assigned to me with this, my coffee plant, upon which my happiest hopes were founded, and which was the source of my delight.&quot; By 1726, the first commercial coffee farm had been established by and by 1770, over 19 million coffee trees had been planted throughout Martinique. So in the 1600s, you have the Dutch that bring the coffee to Indonesia. By the 1700s, you have the French starting to take coffee to their colonies, Reunion Island, near the coast of Africa, Martinique, within the Caribbean. By 1727, the Portuguese so they established their Where? Their colony of Brazil. By 1730, the British 1740, the Spanish to the Philippines. By 1748, the Spanish 1775, the Spanish introduce coffee to Guatemala and Puerto Rico. 1790, the Spanish By the 1800s, the Kingdom of Hawaii was introduced to coffee. Chief Boki, the governor was gifted seeds from Brazil. He used these and planted This was common, that gifts of were given to royalty. Most Americans don't realize that Hawaii was known until the 1950s, when it was annexed as a state of the United States. By 1892, a sugar grower to the big island of Hawaii, This is where all Kona coffee came from. In the 15th century, Sufi monasteries, where monks would have throughout the entire evening, needed coffee to stay awake. This was the first way in which coffee was consumed and enjoyed, to stay awake during nightly prayers. It remained primarily a eventually finding its way By the early 15th to Persia, Egypt, Syria, and Turkey. The people became so fond of the beverage that disregarding it for they made it into a secular drink, enjoying it at all times of the day, in what we call Qahveh Khanehs, This was a completely new concept, because the masses had to gather and discuss ideas, in a place like this, yet. In fact, many emperors, at several points throughout history, never fully succeeding, coffee making its way to the mainstream time and time again. The Muslim world was consuming However, the Christian world It took until the Pope himself declared the drink a holy drink, and at that point, Christians to start consuming coffee. True story: A Bishop for the Pope brought the coffee to the Pope and said, &quot;This is the devil's drink.&quot; The Pope said, &quot;Well, I need to try it first.&quot; After a few sips, he said, &quot;No, my son, this is God's drink, and now it is a Christian drink.&quot; In the coffee world, there are two major species of coffee, Arabica and Robusta. In America, and in most we consume Arabica coffee, mainly because it tastes better, but also because it has a and we taste that when it's too caffeinated. By 1615, coffee had in Venice, Italy, known as the wine of Arabia. Today, we call it Arabica coffee. This is where the term originates. People believe that coffee came particularly Yemen, and this is how it got At first coffee was just used It was extremely expensive, and mainly, the wealthy were using it. Does this remind us of currently in America today? (laughs) Marijuana. By 1645, the first coffee By 1652, the first coffee shop By 1672, the very first coffee By 1683, Vienna, Austria, opens their very first coffee house. In the early 1600s, when America was first being odds are, the very first people that brought knowledge of coffee were the first colonists, the Dutch, the French, the By 1624, the Dutch colony AKA, New York, imported coffee. It was primarily served in taverns and alongside other beverages. By 1670, the first was mentioned in the New England colony, and the first license to to a woman named Dorothy Between 1670 and 1765, tea is the most popular thanks to the marketing efforts of the British East India Company, but by 1765, King George resulting in colonial upcry, no taxation without representation. Coffee's popularity in America began. Now, no taxation without representation was a big deal for America. When British ships rolled in the Americans stormed the ships and threw the tea into the Boston Harbor. This was the very first moment in which coffee began By 1800, coffee had become By 1860, coffee had Now, it's important to Commodity is available all the time, everywhere, at all times. Take this particular stretch outside of our roastery along the Route 1 corridor. Every business, every has a coffee-maker in it. and odds are, you can go in there and have yourself a cup of coffee. That, my friends, is a commodity, much like rice, much like tea. Now, when we're looking at the timeline of coffee in America, it's important to realize there are many milestones throughout that are transformative and some big players that started back then. In 1850, a little company known as Folgers got its start in the coffee game. In 1861 to 1865, the dramatically increased Soldiers out in the field consumed coffee for multiple reasons: one, to stay warm; two, and three, motivation, to give them extra boost By 1890, the practice of coffee cupping, the act of trying the was implemented. That's kind of wild to think about. People were buying coffee just a little over a hundred years ago. By 1892, Maxwell Coffee House is established. Maxwell Coffee House, that had been created by an entrepreneur. There was a hotel called This gentleman, this new entrepreneur, asked the hotel to carry his coffee, and they said, &quot;No, thank you.&quot; He said, &quot;I'll give it to you for free if you'll just serve it, and let's see what the customers prefer.&quot; They served that coffee. It became such a hit to this entrepreneur's coffee. He was humbled by it, and he chose the name Maxwell, as the new name of his company, and that's where we get - &quot;Help me out, will ya? - What kind do you use? - Instant Folgers.&quot; - Between 1900 to 1970, the dark days of coffee in America begin, instant coffee. By 1971, a little coffee company that you may have heard of today, called Starbucks, opened. Now, the original Starbucks didn't sell cups of coffee, lattes, ventis, all these drinks that Back in the day, you to just get your beans, and that was a novel idea, 'cause most people were buying Now, where did the original learn to roast? Because it is a craft after all. One might not look much another American staple. (clock ticking) - &quot;Who would have believed that Americans would to pay four bucks for a cup of coffee?&quot; By 1987, a marketing expert had joined the company of and wanted to buy the company. The original founders said, &quot;Okay,&quot; and they sold it to Howard Schultz. He then turned it into by taking the Italian coffee experience of espresso, macchiato, and infusing it with the whole bean store that Starbucks was at that time. The very first trial of and it was not called Starbucks, Successful out the gate, Starbucks were beginning to By 1995, the grandfathers of Stumptown Coffee, out of Portland, Counter Culture Coffee, out Intelligentsia Coffee, were established. This was the first, early days of what we call the By 2002, George Howell and began to separate the difference between specialty coffee setting standards that By 2005, specialty coffee begins to grow at a faster rate than commodity coffee, taking over metropolises By 2020, specialty coffee by the coronavirus pandemic, dramatic reduction in However, there was a silver lining. With increased e-commerce, specialty coffee roasters able to bring the world's best helping them brew amazing cups through tutorials and online videos, and showing people the beauty of having a great cup of coffee each day. Today, most specialty are small, locally-owned, There are a total of 36,000 29,000 of them are Dunkin's and Starbucks. You tell me if there's room for more locally-owned (upbeat music)