It is worth noting that cats and if they fail to connect with that prey and to take it down quickly, they give up. So if you've got a long head start, you're going to outrun it. My name's Mark Elbroch. I've been studying mountain and I've been lucky enough to also work with African lions and leopards. Today, we're going to be in movies and judging how real they are. Where they stand up to begin African lions will do that especially over territory Young lions actually challenge old lions. That's totally real. And that old lions almost always have a set from these territorial disputes over time. That's totally normal. To see an old lion without any scars means that lion has The swiping of the paws, all of that sort of rapid violence is very real. I would just point out, when you see them, they often look loose. They're swiping with these weapons, these claws that can and that loose skin is protecting them, the big mane is protecting them, so that all is defenses to allow them to have There was a moment there where That's really normal. A cat in a defensive posture to have four weapons pointing up. They are devastating because now, if a competitor comes on top of them, they just shred their underbelly, It's amazing to have that so I'm going to give this thing an eight. This is a pet animal, a pet tiger. There are more tigers in than there are wild tigers and that's just a crazy thing to ponder. The ears were forward. You always watch the ears of cats. And so this was not a threatened animal, it wasn't an agitated Stu: This does not seem fair. Phil: It's rock, paper, scissors. Interesting idea to try to drug the tiger. In fact, I know people who have They use syringes and I've seen that work in the field. So that's real. I mean, real-ish, depending what they're giving it. Oh, my God! When you saw the tiger we call those displacement behaviors. A lot of captive animals in different ways, and so they'll bite things, You know, I'm going to Oh, dear Santo. Note the pattern here, that there's sort of black And that's really important and differentiating it from a leopard, which has no black dots in the middle. I've seen this movie, so and so I know that the jaguar is a pet. The owner has trained this cat to engage in wrestling matches. Would a jaguar wander into a bar to get a raw steak or to engage people? Absolutely not. In fact, jaguars, among all the big cats, have the least records of attacking people in the wild. It's almost unheard of. If that were a real fight and the jaguar were truly to bite down, it could quite literally They have tremendous biting power as compared to other cats of similar size. [jaguar purring] I'm going to pet you now, and you're not going You know, Hollywood loves its noises, and in this case, it Jaguars can roar, but they cannot purr, so that, of course, is I'm going to give this a four. It's got tremendous comedy Hey, buddy. Huh, huh? You a little scary kitty, huh? That's a real mountain lion kitten. All cats are born with blue eyes. The pigments haven't started You can see this kitten It's not agitated. Its ears are forward. To me, I would call that a smiling kitty. [mountain lion roars] Mountain lions can't roar, the largest of the small cats. An agitated mountain They go [hisses], and then Like, as they pull the they'll go [snorts] and go [snorts]. Oh, my God. [mountain lion growls] Help! Help! This is one of the first clips in which we've seen a cat drop its head and lower the front half of its body, and that's exactly what a wildcat does when it is preparing to pounce. What would a mountain lion really do if it was defending its kittens? It's all about bluster. They'll false-charge you. They make noise. It would be an incredibly rare thing that they would actually make contact, because in a fight they are vulnerable, and the best thing for the safety of their own kittens is to stay alive. Oh! Oh, my God I mean, there's so much to talk about. The cat's enormous to Kevin, and I know Kevin Hart is not a huge man. So, a typical female, especially is going to be, like, 80 pounds. That cat is huge compared Oh. Oh, my God. How she even dropped to the ground and let go of him is When a cat attaches to they do not let go. and they'll go down with their prey. They've actually been attached to a bighorn sheep or some other prey and rolling together. To the jugular! Is that an EpiPen? He's not jabbing it in the jugular. He's jabbing it in the the least effective form of defense. The neck would've been good, or the eye. People often recommend, if you go for the eye. I'm going to give this one a five. African lions, the largest ones, are almost as large as the largest tigers. There are records of up to 600 pounds, but they exhibit extreme dimorphism, and that's a fancy word are a lot bigger than the females. When I've been in the field when they stand up, their even with your chest, which This is hard to watch. This reminds me of, is it &quot;The Revenant&quot; that That bear scene was just and this is, I mean, this is the most I think he's on his back. They often go for the spine, big cats, when they're attacking any kind of prey. And you notice this lion is biting a lot. We haven't seen that in these other clips. Lots of clawing, which, as I talked about, is more about wounding. This is a lion going for a kill. This clip is as real as it gets. I'm going to give it a solid eight, and it loses two points in just the impact on the person who was You know, the devastation of that attack would have been lethal. [mountain lion growls and yowls] What the hell? Reese: But if you're scared, will do what God made it to do. This part of that clip is actually real. You know, that if you keep or to another big cat, for a potentially dangerous situation. You never want to give to what I call gain momentum. They'll become bolder, whatever they're doing to make you afraid. Most folks will recommend towards it. Like, you step I'll stomp my feet, I'll be and they'll usually just be like, &quot;Whoa,&quot; and then they'll leave. God, he's just following me wherever I go. Reese: Well, he's just looking at you. That's actually a really because cats lock on their prey. To get them to break that if you were to ever be in which you can do by yelling, screaming, doing something surprising. Hey, here we go. I'm getting in. [mountain lion growls and hisses] The sound at the end, it's so funny because it's because that is one of the most overused popular sounds of mountain lions. I love the fact they talked [tiger roars] The greatest problem with are the noises. First off, cats are completely You don't let your prey When that tiger emerges and hits the wolf, that's actually a really important thing to note about cat hunting, is not just their claws and their teeth. Sometimes, if they can get just their weight alone can You should never run. That's like triggering the prey response in a large carnivore. You want to confront a large If it's threatening you. But let's just assume that you're running. You know, you've made that decision. It is worth noting that and that they have these short bursts. That's why they're And if they fail to connect with that prey and to take it down quickly, they give up. So if you've got a long head start and you could get that half mile or so, yeah, because humans are actually There's no way he could stand up to being clawed several times. So, cat claws are protractible, when the cat is relaxed, You don't see the claws. And so that when they capture they immediately cut like sharp knives. Just would completely debilitate this guy. I'm going to give this one a seven. Come on! Come on! Come on! Will a tiger defend food from a potential scavenger? Absolutely, and lions too, and mountain lions too, and leopards too. They'll all do that. It has the tiger's ears out to the side, and that is an uncomfortable animal. That is an agitated animal. It is telling the world in every way that it is very unhappy Pi takes to water for safety, right? He leaps off the boat, and if like, truly hunting him, that probably wouldn't have saved him because tigers swim and swim quite well. But in this case, as I mentioned, the tiger didn't seem to be locked on him. I'm going to give this clip an eight because the CGI is amazing. That could happen. I've seen mountain lions kill bear cubs on a couple of occasions. In terms of how it would the most similar sort is in the far south out in and a mountain lion would of grass or rock to get They wouldn't betray their presence. Now, if they thought that which a young bear might be, then sure, you'll see cats nonchalantly approach prey that cannot get away. We can appreciate this is but that this is a cat that and is not his hunting. Would a mountain lion, confronted with an adult brown bear, turn and flee? Absolutely. You know, mountain lions rather than engage and that gets me a little bit to talk about the habitat here. It's totally open. It's hardly any trees. It's a lot of rock. This is actually not great cat habitat, at least in the north because this is the domain of wolves, and wolves always have the And so cats, when you look at their distribution across North America, they're almost never found So, we've got real I'm still going to give it a seven because the open terrain My favorite big-cat-attack scene from today would be from &quot;Me Time.&quot; Part of my enjoyment of that clip was how poorly it was done in terms of CGI and the interaction between and the actual mountain lion. Thanks so much for watching, and if you're felining it, please click on the video above.