What would you do if you had The five of us each traveled and came up with a crazy way Let's find out who's [INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC PLAYING] I think it's, like, World-renowned Lake Powell! [LAUGHTER] [INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC PLAYING] This is a very bad idea! Oh, I could cry! Ah! (SINGING) Just pick a number-- Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to world-renowned the home of your next Twin win! In the past, we were known as the &quot;struggle boat.&quot; Back up. I'm caught. I'm worried about it over here. Ladies and gentlemen, may Mark Cuban is going to All right, guys, the on a lake, ice fishing. Chose it for one reason only, and all I got to do is pull Brought my coffee pot. Got a TV. Here's the good news. I haven't seen a lot of I just got that on repeat. I call this the This is the device The flag will pop up when I just remove this, I grab it No pole necessary. (SINGING) I've never felt What's up, guys? TT checking into the game. Historically, fishing battles unless Sparky's on my team, How we doing, Spark? You look at where our they learned it You might think, going to do something like a in your mouth? Thought about it, but I don't want fish in my mouth. And I thought, you be really cool, is an eagle. Swoops in from above. Which is exactly why I Yeah, it's gonna be good. All right, tall guy I don't have a fishing and I have my Submarining is This one is super got this bubble for your head. There will be air in there. As soon as you start these fish are just you don't have oxygen anymore. I'm going to honest, looks a lot of fun when you're but when you're doing it-- [LAUGHTER] Do you think I'm going I have faith in you, for sure. I am ecstatic to get out to a big piece of flying around in the wild. It's going to be a great day. Here's how this Gonna lift up the I'm going to put some fish to be unsuspectingly feeding, and then, just when like a thief in the night-- [FIGHTING SOUND EFFECTS] That's going to work. See you on the flip side. Woo! Nope, didn't catch any. We're gonna get them, boys. Have no fear! We just need some fish. OK, no fish on the first pass. All right, we know Seen a lot of perch Still waiting on some trout. I just need the fish I mean, I see them. Just bite the line. All right, it's time We've got anchovies on the is trolling. Catch fish. When we came up with the idea I loved it. Let the power tool I'm going to do my first Oh. [LAUGHTER] This is an absolute disaster! [INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC PLAYING] Oh, yeah, he got it. He got it. First fish of the day, boys. He's not pretty, Got ourselves a Cody checking into the game! I am in the Everglades! Is that true? That is not true. OK, I'm not in the Everglades. I do have a backup plan. Meet Frank. And worst case, we're just and call it a day, Cobes, real quick, It is actually a felony if you release that fish. Oh, no way! Are you saying to Yeah, dude, that is, like, Jordan! This was my whole plan! (SINGING) Loving every moment. First thing of the day, coffee. Most essential. Nothing better. Even though it's I've got a luxurious tent. I've got heaters. I've got food. I've got coffee. There's one thing I don't travel This thing is already getting It's cleaning off the [INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC PLAYING] (SINGING) Just pick a Here we go. This is brutal. I think the twins are in Utah, and I'm over here, about to run out of oxygen. (SINGING) They need some help. I better show them the way. All right, guys, we made here at Lake Powell. Get your minds right. It's time to get serious. I did just catch You ever seen the movie Tangled? No need. Just watch Coby and I fish. I caught the rope on the side Not seen a fish today. Not even seen one with our eyes. How did you get out there? Thing has a mind of its [TRUCK BEEPING] It's a beautiful Nope, didn't didn't get any. Howdy, folks. Sparky checking in. Not a big fisherman, And you may ask what are you judging on? One, method and the fish, two, the amount of hard work, and determination. Wow. Sun's out. Pivoting from the submarine and going to the I'm going to hand-feed worm, It turns out fishing with just We started off just kind and you're not very You know, you're of what you would normally be. (SINGING) --party and I'm not fast enough! This submarine, guys, I've created some and we are going to slide Let's see if we If you think people to see absolute banger that is where you are wrong. We're going to have to rename Pole Fishing Battle&quot; to Upon the terrestrial No way! --tapestry of nature unfurls. (SINGING) I'm never stopping-- Just an eagle, hanging Food! Ah! [EAGLE SQUAWKING] (SINGING) Loving every moment! Yeah, yeah, yeah! Right here, right now-- No fish! It's at this point, after as an eagle-- Rats! --when reality starts to set in. There's a good chance we may be The eagle's starting All right, guys, we have a net. New contraption, we've added Sounds harder than it looks. Looks harder than it sounds. I don't know, I'm Here we go! (SINGING) Loving every moment! Yeah, yeah, yeah! Right here, right now-- We tried some different methods (SINGING) Right It's not my proudest moment, I'll tell you what is we're not going to give up. We're going to go back and rethink this thing. Oh, God, this one feels big. There's definitely a fish on. Oh, yes! Let's go! All right, got ourselves Look at that catch, athletic. All right, go back See you, bud. There he goes. I see fish down there, and we're going to catch She's got a nibble, 100%. [DRILL WHIRRING] He murdered that. We need to promise because they deserve catch a fish on a drill. We will go home, and we will Yeah, I'm committed. I'm in on it. Lake Powell was a very We're back in Texas, at a pond. We promised you guys We're going to deliver. Let's go! Come on! (SINGING) Let's get it started! Come on, let's get it started! I want to get in front of it. I did use a hook, and but it wasn't tied It was just tied to a pole so we're good. (SINGING) Right here, right now, Man! You were just dying over there! That was hard to catch! All right, there he is! Can we get a nice (SINGING) Come on, Fish on! Fish on! Flag's up, boys. Come on. Got another trout. Come on, baby. Reel him up. Chill. You're fine. Trout number two, baby. We're cooking now. You know what, three I feel like I You know-- Did you I think the ice This interview's over. I'm sorry. We're getting out here. (SINGING) They need some help. I better show them the way. We're going to come I need to come straight out pew! I feel pretty good about it. Not a lot going on up Pretty sure we got Catfish? [INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC PLAYING] Came up empty-handed. Now I've gotta do the to shore. We had a few more and you could say that Not sure we're gonna catch any. It's at this point when it TT the Eagle is All right, we've heard, this throw a Cheeto in so if it can't happen Big shout, Columbia PFG. You guys geared us up a gold medal run at this point. All right, as the world's I would like to show you [RECORD SCRATCHING] That was terrible. Sling, swing. So good. [INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC PLAYING] Fish on! Fish on! Oh my gosh, it might No, it's on! Fish on! Yeah! The world's first, and the with a drill! Struggle boat no more, Cobes! I'm definitely in and morale is low, not And that's when the No sir, we're not giving up. Put me back up in going to let patience You know, if an eagle's it's his perseverance. Oh! Oh! No way! No way! No! Oh, it's huge! Hold on! Yes! Yes! Let's go, baby! Hey, buddy! That's a good sign. We had a catfish surface. [INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC PLAYING] Please still be on. Still on. Fish on. Let's go! Come on! Yes! Yeah, baby! Feel like I just gotta [INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC PLAYING] I'm going. [EAGLE SQUAWKING] I got one! I got it! We've got a fish! Success! We've done it! A nice, big cat, baby! Oh, yes! It's on! Go to Coby! Go to Coby! Fish on! Fish on! No way! Come here! Bring yours in! Let's go! I got it! I got it! Let's go, baby! Twin fish! Twin fish! This is insane. We may not have the numbers nobody's got a bigger fish. I say that. I don't even really know Thanks, partner. Thanks for letting me catch you. Six fish, massive Can't tell us we didn't No, we did. Traveled the globe. Six fish. Yep. It's in the judges' Come on. Now time to-- Hey, Spark, I'm but I've just gotta the greatest fishing gear Really, I'm going Hang on one sec. Click the link in to get your PFG gear for Really, I mean, we all know but Columbia is the Go ahead. OK. Without further ado, the winner Come on, baby! Come on. --goes to-- Yeah! Yeah, baby! Yes! Don't need the pole! Drill fishing for life! I will say, the Creative, perfect audible, Congratulations, twins. [APPLAUSE] [LAUGHTER] Am I getting No?