Wall Street remains braced That's in part because down their spending. March was really kind of a spending slowdown, but it's We're not seeing like really rapid pace. But the slowdown is there. But a recession may never keep spending. I continue to think that time is really different. And the reason is there's really in the labor market. I mean, it's. Been amazing how resilient been to this inflationary The consumer is still very They're just spending People are still spending. And that has been important We've been talking about the what felt like, you know, a And for now, you know, the up. But some people are reining I don't like to save my And that was part of the money. I felt like a lot of experience, especially economy. How much longer can economy afloat? Many Americans are inflation stays hot. But last year I was living I was paying rent and I was my income was it felt like It felt like I wasn't savings goals. And I felt not be a renter if I can't renter anymore? So that was factors to me moving back the income is actually living is higher as well. home, I'm saving on that. The reality is that as things that you have to pay your rent, your mortgage, that is increasing and In some cases. In a February 2023 survey, said they were tightening bulk or shopping around These sorts of micro influence on the pace of Consumer spending represents economy. It's close to 70%. If consumer spending is generally speaking, enough slipping into a recession. In Europe, it's a little bit Exports are much more activity than perhaps, say, And then we look at China again, the manufacturing So, yes, the US is very the importance of the economic health. The strong consumer spending In March 2021, the headline Federal Reserve's target of Fast forward to April 20th, close to 5% annually. The escalating prices are people down. Consumers still have the spending is slowing. The because they still have accounts. At the end of 2023 first product grew at 1.1%. While not negative, this to rule out the possibility Something is occurring People are shifting what People spent big on lockdowns, but services are spend. When you're looking at where particularly as you're leisure and entertainment, consumer. According to McKinsey, many splurge on experiences. Spending in other and apparel are up too, but I'm feeling it when it comes for me because I've never how much food costs. You know, what drives Well, it's either your debt. Know that's all you savings. This pressure from going to make. Even if we going to be quite a painful many households in America. Economists believe that turn to credit to cover I think it's really scary credit to be able to afford day. That sentiment shows up in of America Institute. We care about credit to see how leveraged is the Are they really borrowing are they spending the money Through the pandemic? Americans were using less starting to reverse. At the end of 2022, the $10,000 in credit card Analysts believe that may soon reach $1 trillion Putting everyday expenses on because we know that as rising, so have rates on So is the interest that that you are indeed everyday expenses? Credit card interest rates Topping 20% nationwide in These interest rates move central bank's federal And these rates are customers who carry a As consumers run into the economy are flashing There's been a lot of failures of a couple of This could spark a You know. Banks are becoming much more They've seen a bit of these small and regional higher borrowing costs and this double pincer the household and the is, I think, what could be and damaging for the growth While the average consumer is split. This demand could in assets, particularly Home prices have risen since 2020. Roughly two thirds of US Economists believe that can amplify spending. If you do, in fact have potentially be in the line of credit. This is the your home value. But there are risks of home especially depending on the You have to keep in mind borrowing money here. And so there will be rates, amount of money that you're to consider, but to look at that you're still able to your home. The Federal Reserve for now will stay higher for With today's action. We have raised interest points in a little more We are seeing the effects demand. It will take time, effects of monetary especially on inflation. When this rates going up, it tighter for everybody, assets. It's been the most interest rate increases for We can all feel it in our So had this form up in my said, Hey, like, would you Fill this out, I'll send And over 200 people replied days, which was completely No, I did not get to the amount of people that I Another factor may be The average tax refund in 2022. This can affect the income families. But another positive sign their wage level, their highest among all income And now if you think about spectrum, the higher income that their wage levels are Right? What they're making might be smaller than a seeing so much of a savings because they of savings over the So with these two factors of the income spectrum are But there's other counter additional buffer to them. Leading economists haven't May 2023, but some do see mounting. I think if you view this era that has been elevating it's losing its energy now. It hasn't yet started to clearly facing stronger I think it's unlikely that recession. And probably the that the labor market is as Many of those open jobs are Manning industries like The future path of the whether businesses can pay From an income perspective, as perhaps they were. You know, we had this inequality perhaps can that we are in once again that have got the cash are than those that are little bit more. I think many people are paycheck. So this is not only facing a few. It's facing the majority of much money they're making.