Sure black holes are awesome, but how about black holes being captured by the screaming vortex of a quasar, where they merge and grow like some monstrous version is getting closer to reality, at least according to the papers in today's Space Time Journal club. In September 2015 the laser interferometer its first gravitational wave from the merger but the real promise lay ahead. Every time way we discover new things. When we figured supernova remnants lit up the sky, When we Sun became visible to us. But now that our else might we discover? The black hole mergers themselves were not predicted gravitational waves and astrophysics massive stars are in binary orbit with each pair of binary black holes. And in very dense black holes may find each other and form a last forever. As they circle each other, black ripples - gravitational waves - which saps holes spiral closer and closer together. In black hole, and the powerful gravitational are what LIGO detects - sometimes from over We expected to see black hole mergers, but thing, many of the merging black holes were of stellar cores. That is if our understanding think it is. This led astrophysicists to think Here's the most awesome possibility: what around supermassive black holes, embedded surround some of these monsters? Well today on Space Time Journal Club we'll be looking at a pair of 2019 papers that talk about this the properties of black holes that merge this which proposes a way for us to actually test this hypothesis. The argument goes like this: we know that a supermassive black hole of millions to billions also learned that the galactic center likely of stellar-mass black holes. These are the a few tens times the mass of the Sun. They of years as massive stars formed and died been a theoretical prediction for some time, Milky Way's black hole swarm - and yeah, OK, so, a black hole swarm surrounding a supermassive hole collisions. Actually not so much - black outright - they need to merge by first forming binary black hole pairs surely do exist in trouble merging in such a dense environment. or black holes can tear binary pairs apart But there's a way to massively accelerate need is a little quasar. For the most part are, well, black. But occasionally gas from the galactic center and form an incandescent into the insane gravitational field of the most well-fed black holes this results in disks glow bright enough to be visible from these feeding supermassive black holes are This is how supermassive black holes can grow presence of an accretion disk mean for the of those black holes are mostly random, so across. The accretion disk is quite a bit still be plenty of black holes orbiting in the accretion disk twice every orbit. On each disk, tugged by the black hole's gravitational hole to gas, slowing the black hole down a like how a satellite's orbit will decay if it's Eventually these disk-crossing black holes they gorge on the gas of the disk and grow in almost anywhere else in the galaxy. So to get big. But in order to be detected by There are two ways this can happen: If a binary the surrounding gas saps their orbital energy alone. This means they can spiral together with another object. And accretion disks also allow lone black because the process is similar to how planets a rotating disk, it will exert a gravitational on the local properties of the disk, that angular momentum. If it gains angular momentum further out in the disk - or "migrates outward". But the local properties of a disk will change regions you get inward migration and in some between these regions are called migration object will wander inwards or outwards until remain stuck there for some time. In infant planetary systems, a disk of gas protoplanetary disk. Lumps of coagulated ice can find each other and build into planets. are black holes - captured single black holes finding each other and forming binary pairs, which then quickly merge. This mechanism helps lone black holes find each other, so it should massively mergers also helps black holes to grow in end up in the same migration trap and merge sizes. This is one of the calculations of holes merging in this way should have much empty-space mergers - with 50-solar-mass mergers Jillian Bellovary and co. predicts that behemoth with 1000s of times the mass of the Sun. So all of this sounds exciting and fun - and black hole mergers are observed. And if we will be further evidence in favour of the distribution of black hole spins - again to But what about a more direct test? That's where in. If black holes merge in empty space then no electromagnetic radiation. But it's different right after merger that could lead to a bright These captured black hole binaries will be When they finally merge, they release a burst it can carry away up to several percent of Gas that was orbiting the binary suddenly gravitational field of the final black hole. that then collides with the gas of the surrounding then fall back in, resulting in a burst of Finally, the release of gravitational waves bit like the recoil of a gun. This drives the accretion disk, causing more shocks as motion produces a flash of ultraviolet radiation on Earth right after the gravitational waves Now it's going to be a challenge the two LIGO and the VIRGO observatories locates blob on the sky, which will typically contain thousands of regular galaxies. Any of those But since LIGO started operation we now have as a candidate wave is detected, multiple search for electromagnetic signatures. If might see a temporary increase in the light flash that is brightest at ultraviolet wavelengths. The researchers are currently scouring the mergers for just such a signature, and will With LIGO now detected a black hole merger this will be spotted -- assuming accretion all the assumptions of the model hold up. Anyway, like I said: gravitational wave astronomy phenomena. Now we have the amazing possibility size while trapped within the blazing vortices Awesome, sure, but what else would you expect metal Space Time. So we're a little behind in comment responses one - coming to you from the hot Australian over the next couple of episodes, but today we're natural selection - Lee Smolin's idea that A number of you made a similar observation/question: Shouldn't a universe that's born inside a black hole be limited in mass by the amount of stuff is ... not necessarily. There's at least one universe from very little matter and that is inflation, in which the rapid exponential expansion of space can create a ridiculously large universe quantum field powering inflation. Check out on that answer. A couple of you point out that the idea of explain where the first something-from-nothing actually it' fair to cite this as a weakness of the the apparent fine tuning of the fundamental like cosmological natural selection and eternal amount of work required by that initial creationary capable of exponential growth - after that themselves. Xzayler asks what happens when a black hole universes collide? Do the constants average any idea. The cosmological natural selection connection between the initial black hole is birthed in the formation of the black hole expansion into an entirely new spacetime then of its parent black hole - perhaps unaffected Really kids these days, no respect at all. On that note New Message feels a bit better learning that even whole universes can be a disappointment to their Many people also commented that they'd thought thing independently to Lee Smolin. I'm making thing is true, I'll send that list to the now&quot; &quot;This year's nobel prize in physics is Lee Smolin, xxfishytomatoxx, and 57 others from the internet who totally thought of it years ago dude.&quot;