Tim Ferriss: Hello, boys and girls, ladies and germs. This The Tim Ferriss Show. My guest today is James @jamesclear. James is a writer and speaker, He is the author of the number one New York Atomic Habits, which covers easy and proven The book has sold more than 10 million copies than 50 languages. On average, Atomic Habits was published. By the time I finish reading this James is also the creator of the 3-2-1 Newsletter. hyphen, one newsletter, which is one of the and has more than two million subscribers. Each two quotes from other people, and one question about questions, in fact, shortly with James. He is a regular speaker at Fortune 500 companies the NFL, NBA, and MLB. In college he was and he is an avid weightlifter. For those the same stylist. We've got the same handsome look. You can find James at jamesclear.com and, as James, it is nice to see you. you. Thank you so much for the opportunity. having this conversation. I thought we would but the topic of annual reviews comes up for down on this year, about to head into the new reviews and perhaps just walk us through the for at least a period of time, you James Clear: Sure. can tackle that in any order you'd like. reflection and review. I'm sure we'll talk a lot meta habits that's really helpful is some kind of you to course correct. Nobody sets out to get off that goes against their values, but we just have find ourselves in situations where maybe we're not is a chance to check in. I also think it's helpful I usually do some kind of short little business new email subscribers and stuff like that. myself some big questions. Actually, I'm glad you very useful. If you ask better questions, you can resilient, they're very adaptable to the context. little bit better, than advice. Advice is actually really good plan, a really good piece of advice to it's actually not great advice for your particular I think maybe what I should do is just go to ask myself for my annual review I guess we could say this first category is just help bring me back to center. The first thing, from Derek Sivers or some version of it from him, optimize for money, sometimes they optimize for output or being able to choose the projects they probably changes over time. What I'm optimizing for five years ago or 10 years ago. I think it's to decide what it is for you, otherwise it's easy the things that you feel like you're encouraged to parents or whatever. What am I optimizing for? real objective here? What am I actually trying I also like, &quot;Does this activity fill me with a lot just by whether it fills up your cup or the next year on things that fill you with energy Speaking of the things that drain you, maybe &quot;Does the amount of attention I'm giving this years when I find that I'm giving something a lot It's nice to check in and course correct that. you're going through the calendar of circumstances or in what context are broadly speaking questions that you're self-awareness and different types of cycles? wait and only do it once a year, but when I I usually am writing maybe a paragraph for each have things that I check for this process. that happens throughout the year, even if you my calendar measures how many new cities I home, and those are important things. Oh, I see. It measures it, meaning it logs it. Dallas from Tuesday to Thursday, so because that was two nights or three nights where I wasn't year I try to figure out how many nights did I spend? Is it less? How did that fall for the year? like a pen and paper journal. I've got all the I can look back on the dates, how many workouts number of workouts per month? A lot of that stuff, the year, but it's there for me as I sit down to I'm going through these questions and then trying what am I optimizing for, am I spending my energy Tim Ferriss: Perfect. I think is helpful is once you answer what &quot;Can my current habits carry me to my desired what kind of trajectory you're on. If they but if they can't, something needs to change, Another question I love, and this is actually at Habits, is &quot;How can I create an environment that Rather than trying to fight this and force my way make it happen even if the circumstances aren't physical environment, my social environment and I'm trying to achieve so that it's almost I actually have a bunch of questions. I've got three or four that come to mind. back to the remainder of the list because I am a question junkie, no big surprise there. say the, but one of the key points in the first to the level of your goals, you fall to the level of my favorite quotes, I wish I could actually from the Greek poet and philosopher, Archilochus, we fall to the level of our training.&quot; I think about this a lot and have found for myself stacking the deck so it is harder to fail goes It's almost difficult for me to imagine precise labeled as broadly as willpower. How can you set et cetera? What are some of the systems that James Clear: We can pick a couple different and then I'll also do it for writing and business. it's one of the ones I feel like is most but I try to do whatever I can to reduce friction The first thing is I give myself permission to my typical workout takes 45 minutes, but I this story where you're like, &quot;Ah, I don't have I try to remind myself to reduce the scope but days where all I have time for is to go in and do that rather than doing nothing. It counts for In a sense, in the long run, I matter more than the good days because -- James Clear: -- if you show up on the bad days, you maintain the habit. If you maintain It counts for a lot. You also proved to mirror at the end of the night and be like, situation wasn't perfect, but I still found out a the first thing, it's mindset and approach. what I do for this, first there's basic stuff like before, have everything ready to go, have your gradually reduced the friction even more. I used do all that kind of stuff, now, over the last year get down to the basement and I can just work out equipment, I'm becoming this equipment hoarder, excuses. All I have to do is just walk downstairs It's really just about reducing friction. have equipment or you don't want to pay for a gym or you could just do 10 sprints up and down the the right strategy for reducing friction and just Tim Ferriss: I think the reduction of scope that if you don't have time for 60 it doesn't happens to me sometimes, I'm not going to lie. But an entire gym, you almost certainly have space for get one kettlebell or even build a kettlebell a T-bar kettlebell for swings. If you can just I would love to hear, well, let's see, just adding my commentary. Tim Ferriss: The first is underscoring I don't want to say it doesn't matter, but it you feel like doing the things that you have et cetera. What matters is what happens when where the systems and the lack of excuses How do you apply this -- well, actually, one more brought up first. Many people might think, but exercise for me is the cascading upper level your body takes care of your brain and mood force multiplier category, so I'm glad we systems, and I'll put that in air quotes because but what might be examples of systems or James Clear: Yeah. Just a quick point I think it's worth asking yourself what habits do or other things that set me up for a good day. least for you, and I would say for me, is upstream get the benefits of the workout, sure, but also, I two where I get this good period of concentration. it's like I don't want to waste it. It's actually eating whatever I want. I tend to sleep better at means I wake up the next day and I have better build better sleep habits or nutrition habits or of getting that one habit of a good workout in. people, comedians for example or athletes, will before they step out on the stage. If they get going to look like, that helps them perform in habit, and if they get their 15 minutes of up for the rest of the day being productive. when I'm living a good day, when I'm on, what are maybe rather than worrying about everything and what's the lead domino? What's that other productive things? Can I just pour my trust that the momentum will carry me forward? examples of systems? It can take many different you be more productive. For example, this doesn't and I don't do it every day, but I probably do it my phone in another room until lunch each day. to just work on my agenda rather than responding up and have a few hours where I can do some it's a physical environment that promotes or which is creative output or writing or whatever. I write 3-2-1, this weekly newsletter. There are people and one question in each newsletter. I have ideas, one of them is quotes, and one of them is generated or quotes that I've run across and read maybe this could be in a newsletter sometime.&quot; is just this spreadsheet of raw material, it only because I have a lot to start from, I have good book and come across a quote that I like, I type a very simple system, but it makes the process There are many different forms that could take, but it's any way that you set up the to make the habit easier and more frictionless. process a little bit. We're going to talk because I feel as though what was old is once I have to be like, &quot;Guys, you need a way to taken away from you immediately by a platform.&quot; James Clear: Yeah, email never dies, Tim Ferriss: Yeah, yeah. It's like the cat came but it wouldn't stay away. Email is not going that, because it is a vehicle for transmitting I have read a bit about your use, or past use, for asymmetry at the time, at least in the article a 600-page Google Doc that you had put together you landed with idea capture, maybe web capture, category, what is your portfolio of tools? matters that much. I think what does matter is good ideas that you come across. Then depending on to create books or to write newsletters, to create something great. I would say the big I'm trying to craft better information flows. what you consume. We don't usually think about Twitter, you're choosing your future thoughts in a the timeline, what the feed is going to look like. podcast episode to listen to, you're choosing the necessarily know what they are, but over time you are higher signal than others. I almost feel like in our current modern society, because information Tim Ferriss: So choosing your inputs. information flows, gets better thoughts. What do you choose? unreasonable amount of time curating my Twitter spending time on it. I'm not necessarily saying really good set of people to follow I do get probably spending more time on it than I should, But the single highest thing for me is when writing about. If it's relevant to the topic, let's say for Atomic Habits for example. I I'm writing a chapter on self-control and this or this book has a piece of research that relates thing, it's hard for me to even get through a page so many ideas to write about. It'll take me an Tim Ferriss: How do you find the gems that I approach this, but there are a hundred the US in English alone, probably, something through the maze to find some of those books? got to be willing to quit books fast. If if you feel like you have to finish something going to be stuck and you won't move on quickly where it says something like, &quot;He read like field.&quot; I think about that, I try to read or slowly unpacking a book the way that I would trying to find an insight. That's the first The second thing is suggestions from friends are I'm writing about this topic. What's the good book ones that way, so just putting it out into the the back of the book and see what the references books on Amazon and a lot of the time you'll find book that had something but you feel like maybe all the three-star reviews for that book, or the books recommended in there. They'll say, &quot;Instead Tim Ferriss: The three-star reviews is just overly -- not overly, I don't want to slam but they tend to not -- I would say, for me at &quot;I ordered a toaster and they sent me a book,&quot; and attention to what you're clicking.&quot; Tim Ferriss: But the three-star reviews, the you tend to get a lot of really helpful feedback. because I read, for people who can see behind bookshelves, I'll very often go to Wikipedia and and if it's iconic enough or has stood the test I've read or do read, but there will often be a quotes from fill in the blank book, Goodreads, good selection. You can get a feel for, for is that something you want to read? Well, you you don't like the trailer for the movie, you're the Goodreads highlights, you're not going Side note on that, you were mentioning, what like it could be a Derek Sivers' question, he that I've also found helpful is, &quot;What game am I aside from shelter, food, a handful of the basics we're all playing games. What games are you cognizant of that is, for me at least, step one. question that you've asked before, but is that Tim Ferriss: Yeah, absolutely. mountain or do I need to be climbing a different that you're in the right game. You mentioned the tools not mattering so much, For capturing, when you're like, James Clear: You're right, I do use Asana mostly. holding ground for it, but I have the app on my the time and so it's always right there. I don't is what I've been using for the last few years, present and as soon as you have an idea, it to think about where you're going to record it and and another one in an Evernote doc and a third the ideas. If you have them all in one place -- life right now, which is why I'm very interested I still use Asana for project management, task I'd really considered. Would you mind, just for going to seem very pedestrian, but how James Clear: Part of this is, again, I'm and we may talk about this more as we go through it's me and one employee. I'm not interested in and as high leverage as possible. That means where we spend our time. If I always have a bunch different apps, that's just time that's wasted We use Asana to run the book launch or to run stuff that we do throughout the day, and so I as well as I can write it down somewhere else.&quot; appropriate doc for that project. As an example, idea that's relevant for the newsletter and or the project of the new thing that I put into I label things based on the project it's going to. quote in and then it's labeled. I'll go through go through all those quotes and we'll put them Or let's say the next thing I'm reading, I come where I'm like, &quot;Oh, that would fit into the next then I'll label it based on whatever the topic might be Habits. At the beginning of any idea put Habits. Then a lot of the time I'll actually that this particular idea was for the chapter and then I'll type the idea out. Then a couple labeled as Habits and then put it in the right You could imagine one way to do this even faster, doc that it needs to live in. Instead of putting 3-2-1 Newsletter sheet or I could put it but I've noticed that the problem is I've got a notes from places where things could live. If I'm then you either end up with a bazillion tabs things need to go where at the exact moment I'll have an idea when I'm on a walk or in the to pull up the book manuscript, I just need to be Tim Ferriss: For people listening, what I'm how successful it is, is to zoom in and zoom out. framework or a particular focal point, whether outside of it, just given what you focus on James, James run systems or develop systems in location X I'd like to go next if that's okay with you. Tim Ferriss: How do you, I suppose, try to build small team? This is always of interest to me. I to me, like Small Giants by Bo Burlingham. I to Be Great Instead of Big or something like constraints. One you could set is I'm not going lot of people. Then you have to make decisions but operating within that constraint. Tim Ferriss: What are some of guiding questions, and so on that you have? this is how everybody should run their business, choose what you're trying to accomplish. In but I do want to make as big of an impact as than optimizing for money, let's optimize for I try to make as few choices as possible that back to that. How do I want to spend my days? What how can we reach the most people possible or make that, because there's all kinds of things you do. whatever, but I'm not interested in spending is you've got to decide what you're trying to do. back to for increasing leverage, and I try about this over and over again, is: what is the As an example, when Atomic Habits came out, I did on radio, and I don't really do radio interviews 10-minute segment or whatever it was, all the anymore, it's off the air. Whereas a podcast, and so people can continue to listen to it. I've somebody somewhere listening to one of them right of James out there and they're all continuing work that keeps working for you once it's done. going to keep working for you in the long years later and you just have this tidal wave So let me give you a couple different examples I wrote this article a couple years ago, it it was just taking like Newton's three laws and I don't know, hopefully clever way. And it did but it was just kind of a normal piece. And occasionally read it. And then a couple years read that article and they were writing this in it. And it wasn't much, it was just like Well, there was this producer for CBS that then clicked through to my site and sent me an This Morning and talk about this piece?&quot; And so York and I did the segment and it was my first but I tried to do my best and have a good segment. King and I said, &quot;Hey, I have this book coming Atomic Habits. &quot;I would love to come back and do Tim Ferriss: Smart. &quot;Sure thing. We'll have you back. Just make other interviews on TV shows before us.&quot; And so message to her and the publisher and everybody and how I got on CBS This Morning for the launch of a kind of an important moment for the launch of It wasn't just a guy launching a book, it I don't know how many books that segment more than a thousand, probably less than But as soon as the segment got over, they put we took the YouTube clip and emailed it out to the book that day was like, &quot;Here's my segment on I'm getting at is that work of writing that that work continued to work for me in really even though the initial article didn't seem worked out is because that was work that So anytime you create an asset that can compound -- like Twitter posts and Instagram posts are less life, but even those can be examples of putting still being stumbled across by people online and things to kind of break your way If you spend time than that, which is not only can you create assets it in a way where they layer on top of each other. kind of an excessive amount of time to spend into that, I'll put it out there and it's its own like, hey, we should use that in the newsletter. it becomes the seed of an idea for a longer or it gets added to related ideas that can become actually doing a lot more work than just gaining to layer those little assets on top of each other, line and you really have dramatic effect. So those a high leverage way with a really small team. this towards the end of December, 2022, Twitter have suspended a number of my Twitter accounts. bad behavior that I or my team can identify, reinstated and then two days later they'll get this means is much when, say, Facebook started, boosting, AKA paying for promotion of posts people's business models and audience size started so, so valuable, which is why I'm also spending that's just a background, setting the table so aside from reaching out to say your email service there a monkey wrench in the works?&quot; Tim Ferriss: How would you James Clear: I like to think about it as there's that I own. And you really can only own kind of own your email list, you can own your podcast. the other bucket is external. So this is other on, YouTube, TikTok, Twitter, Facebook, et it is very platform centric right now and people want to be on all of them because I don't have but there are probably a few that are a good are the two that we've decided to focus on. James Clear: No, no TikTok routines yet. If I what comes. So I post on those two platforms and you'll notice a lot of the posts that I put up weird Instagram account because I don't share any me as an individual being out there, but it's all but on many of them, at the bottom of the image And then at the bottom it'll say, get more ideas a link to the newsletter. And so the idea is to and join one of the assets or one of the pieces of like the website or the newsletter or whatever. and cross link between the two, and then they can way as well, like when I send out a newsletter, would make a good tweet, I'll include a little tweet. And so now the newsletter is driving action this little spider web, this kind of ecosystem it all kind of grows together. But the external platforms to the distribution not beholden to any particular one when they Tim Ferriss: Yeah. Which is specifically why shadow banned right now on Twitter. And and I can't get this verified or denied, is that for a new podcast that came out have legitimate That's the only plausible explanation that we and they keep getting unlocked. So I don't want it highlights the fragility of having something don't own. And also if you were to read your terms content to the platform as well on some level. this is many years ago, before the organic chatting with a guy who had a multi-million and massively successful. And I asked him what it &quot;I feel like I have the most profitable active volcano.&quot; It could go away at any minute, James Clear: Sure. few things just to going to feather them important to adapt. I would add something to but I think it's really critical to have a good discard for the sake of discarding. And just as an Reddit and some of these other platforms still can people have started to neglect them. So there's let's just call it platforms that are actually So I've thought about revisiting some there's been such a mass migration to particularly And I would also say, something I think you've will or will not do, say on social platforms. become a slave to the audience in such a way that yourself. And I've seen this happen to a lot of extreme of those gets the most engagement or they then put out five more like that, the most not only has their social feed become like circus, but this is the greater risk is that mask that they've created for themselves. constraints on what you will or will not do in I think is really, really, at least for about that? Or have you thought about that? the core ideas in Atomic Habits, which is your So the aspects, the behaviors that you perform that you have about yourself. I think it's of person I wish to become? What's the type of are not the only things that influence that in but by virtue of the fact that they get repeated on your story. And so the phrase I like to keep the type of person you wish to become. James Clear: And so as you show up each day and video, you're casting a vote for being that kind if you let yourself kind of fall into this, as you pretty soon you actually are casting enough to support that part of your identity. And this is why I come back to some of those what am I optimizing for? Or how do I want to and set the positive constraints for yourself. of lifestyle am I trying to create for myself? And biggest audience? Or how can I make the most But I think that's a way of trying to anchor algorithm kind of run the show. So I think your the actions that you take shape or support, that you are. And so it's worth asking yourself, want to make sure that you're on a good path. fantastic website? So this is on identity-based to what you just said because I think it's any of this. And you can't believe everything James Clear: Even if it comes from my own website. your website or anything like that. &quot;The key to building lasting habits is focusing sentence I'd love to get your take on. &quot;Your your current identity. What you do now is a mirror are (either consciously or subconsciously). start believing new things about yourself. Would you like to add anything to that? The piece that is of greatest interest to me. Tim Ferriss: How would somebody they're listening to this, they're James, please tell me how do I do this? Decide the type of person you want to be, and And the more small wins, the perform, the more votes that you cast for that that kind of person. And eventually you start And man, once we start to take pride in a part those habits. If you take pride in the size of gym. If you take pride in how your hair looks, haircare habits, and you do them every day. that point for you and I, my friend. I have lost that battle. talking about chest hair. Tim Ferriss: James, may I jump in for one second? Tim Ferriss: What is a good way to phrase that? So but some type of statement for this James Clear: I think it's the type of person who doesn't miss workouts,&quot; or &quot;I'm the type of person who finishes what they start.&quot; Whatever aspect that's kind of the story. You can also phrase it &quot;I'm the type of person who doesn't miss that's related to the identity you want to build, And in this example, maybe the question is, &quot;What kind of walking around all day asking yourself, healthy person do?&quot; Or, &quot;Should I take an Uber, what would a healthy person do?&quot; And you just decisions that you feel support that identity. person I wish to become?&quot; So let's say I'm the then the second step is prove it to yourself with habits cast votes for being the kind of person who rather than doing a 45-minute workout when I only the schedule and I do a couple sprints, or I do you find ways to reinforce your desired identity, Because if you can show up consistently, if performing these small habits, you build up reinforce and shape that new identity and at some point you kind of cross this invisible that kind of person.&quot; If you go out and shoot a I'm a basketball player.&quot; But if you do it every point you cross this invisible line. You're like, I am.&quot; So I think you're trying to accumulate Tim Ferriss: So let's do a case study and we're at email because you've been very methodical and 5-Bullet Friday, which has been going for, God, years. It's been a long time. It's pretty wild. know if this is true for you, but looking back me because I get to see, &quot;Oh, three-and-a-half James Clear: &quot;Look at how Tim is so much smarter. I've learned so much.&quot; can dream. So let's say one of my resolutions, but not necessarily so. Tim Ferriss: I am someone who prioritizes email consistently. And you may have some familiarity know you and have had some exchanges before. Tim Ferriss: What might be some small things you would add, try, test, anything at all? browsing your website a little and I kind of feel like the main difference, also, an enormous email list. So to do some sort of of subscribers is kind of a ridiculous premise to Tim Ferriss: No, no. I want to give credit I think that your prioritizing is decisions with respect to email than in my case. was what I was about to say is I feel like the you emphasize the podcast as your number one, something has to lead the day. Now of course, right? The podcast is enormous and it probably but each person needs to decide what that is. In if something is going to be the primary call not the podcast or whatever. So that's are we willing to emphasize this more? And if setting and you can decide, okay, given the podcast, how could we grow it more? simple idea for me. Right now, if you look at the and then you have the email sign up, which James Clear: Yep. all right, well look, this doesn't have to be a James Clear: Try it out. make the top, the whole thing is email. their story played out. So I'm biased to say it is make the banner on your homepage the podcast episodes out to these people. It doesn't-- it sensibly, email is the most important because email than you can share the newsletter via requires task switching almost, I don't want time if I had to just pull a number out of is a secondary activity. Very different beast clicks on links. They're opening an email and perhaps also in the case of your email James Clear: Yeah. James Clear: Well, this is kind of what you're both of the assets are very flexible. You can you can write about whatever you want in an links that you can click on right away. And so it mentioned, often people are listening to a podcast car, and they're not in a position to click on give them a great URL to go to, just the as high because people are busy and then by the So anyway, for all of those reasons, I like there are really only two things that came to it more in the web design? So put it above the And then the second thing is how are you So I mentioned Instagram for me. So that's like of Instagram is one of them. And the reason is bottom that encourage people to sign up for 3-2-1 or a story that we post will have an actual up on the page. And so are you using your the podcast to drive email subscribers? I know for previous episodes, I don't know if you'll mention 5-Bullet Friday at the end. What rather than the end of the show? More people are are going to be listening in the 120th minute. So cross-pollinate and to do it at strategic points asks, but to do it at the exact right moment So those are the two things to keep in mind. questions, if that's okay. This is from your two years and put them in a blog post. And one of one that related to my prioritization of email. the placement of the mention of 5-Bullet Friday And it is, if someone could only see my actions priorities? That's a good one. It's a good one. me your calendar, pal. Yeah. Okay. There we go. tell ourselves. Like it's very easy for us to at how you're acting, what are you actually at various times, which I should say, these aren't These are all things I need to ask myself. Pretty get back to center or to course correct. just said, the more success you have, even if it's somewhat exponential at some point. There friends and peer group, whatever that might mean, whether it's a base hit or a double or a home run for a lot of people. Because in the beginning you're choosing between unattractive options James Clear: You're trying to generate Tim Ferriss: You trying to generate. Tim Ferriss: You're trying to generate attractive attractive option to two attractive options on And then when that goes to 10 things and then it things, it gets harder. And I'm not saying I don't expect that, woe is me. These are quality of asking these types of questions and your first one or two base hits. Because feeling as though you are just up to your neck in to be very, very hard. So, I would just say -- opportunities, but also distractions. And so Tim Ferriss: Sometimes the same thing. you get good at something and so then that brings or interesting or different. And so you do those don't have any time to do the thing that made you got to be careful about what you say yes to. goals / habits / behavioral modifications that imagine of interest to other people listening. copies sold, you've interacted with or certainly tested different things from the book. Let's and I've actually, I'm good at the second, but the So the meditating is an addition. The cutting back subtraction. I would love to hear any thoughts James Clear: Sure. So if you want to potential paths you could take. So the first is Second option is you can reduce it. So you could never drink caffeine, I just want to drink less of it, you could replace it with a different habit. is actually the more effective option. So for Coke or soda or something like that, then maybe love from this experience is I actually just like carbonation that I like. And maybe if I substitute I still get the carbonation sensation, but I don't And so that's a way of substituting for that experience provides. This is actually kind of an about habits, which is every habit that you have, that we face in life. And I'm using problems in a home from work and you feel tired and exhausted from work at 6:00 p.m. and feeling tired is a repeatedly, you've got to come up with some kind we just try things out in life. And so you can exhausted by scrolling Instagram mindlessly that problem by playing video games for an hour. for 20 minutes. And those are all solutions to the are more healthy or more productive or service odds are that the solutions you've come up with to one? It's just so unlikely that whatever you the perfect way or the best habit that serves you is maybe take a little bit of the pressure off so much. You're just trying to solve the repeated it's unlikely that your current solutions we can step outside and above ourselves and look So rather than drinking a Coke to get the So that's one example for the substitution. If something I've noticed about myself is if I get a fridge, like in the door, or on a shelf that's night just because it's there. But if I take it and it's kind of all the way back in the corner, It'll sit there for two weeks or three not? If it was obvious, then I grab one but that's a simple question to ask yourself. is it soda? And is that really obvious? Is it like the soda the first thing I see at eye level when obvious? In Atomic Habits, there are kind of what just this big picture view of how to build a good you want to make your habits obvious, attractive, bad habit, you just do the opposite of those make it unattractive, make it difficult, how can you make coffee or soda invisible? it outside of the house, et cetera. So there are say you live with a family and other people are Well, there's this little kind of diabolical and it has a lockbox code on the top of it. And lockbox code, but then they don't give it to you stays in that Tupperware and you can't access it. difficult or to make it less obvious, the caffeine habit. locking Tupperware, what is it called again? Tim Ferriss: The Kitchen Safe. and I know a number of families who use them evening time or whenever it is, and they'll they sit until the phone free time has expired. night snacking. The chips go in at 7:00 p.m. set to lock from 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. and Tim Ferriss: I'm just imagining myself, so I'll days ago for the first time, made brownies and thing, even though it's not Christmas yet. And proud of this. I'm not beating myself up about it It's not a big deal. But I'm just imagining if I do you know what a bear bin is? There are these just imagining being like swatting this safe get the brownies out. Anyway, that's more for my Let's talk about positive. And you already ingredients. But meditating, I think for They've heard about it on this podcast. &quot;I know I coffee and do this and make the sandwiches for people approach, say meditating in the morning? here. So again, let me just run through the four So if you want to build a good habit, roughly You want to make it obvious, you want to make it to make it satisfying. So obvious, attractive, and you're thinking, how can I get myself to questions and you can say, how can I make the attractive? How can I make it easier? How can notice different things that you could do. So for Well, do you have a clear space where you're going it's in the corner of your bedroom or it's in the meditation space. And this is exactly where it going to occur. Make it attractive. There are are a lot of ways to get into it. And this is I think we often choose habits that we feel the one that we want to do individually. And to do everything in life, but there's almost the version that you're most genuinely excited you. Because if you're genuinely interested in it, You'll find all sorts of things that you could actually interested, if you're not genuinely going to feel like a hassle. It is going to feel do you want a guided meditation? Maybe it'd Or do you want to find a meditation that has want anything? Do you just want silence? And for a minute or listen to your own breath for But what sounds most attractive and appealing you're actually interested in. This actually, were talking about, Tim, which is yeah, in the but if you have young kids and your four-year-old how to get pants on them and you need to make do it. So find a time and a space where that you're not just going to end up frustrated Make it easy. So rather than doing 15 or 20 that sounds great because your favorite guru Because if you can master the art of showing up, stick to that day in and day out, then you're something, you've like gained a foothold and you recommend in the book is called the two-minute you're trying to build and you scale it down to So read 30 books a year becomes read one page becomes meditate for 60 seconds and you're just must be established before it can be improved. about optimizing it into some perfect thing. And then the final thing is make it satisfying. it's obvious, it's an attractive version of it. feel pretty good about yourself because you're at probably be pretty satisfying. But you can layer your favorite type of coffee or your favorite a bubble bath or a walk in the woods or whatever add some additional positive emotions to the you're going to want to repeat it. And this is cardinal rule of behavior change, which is and behaviors that get punished, get avoided. humans want to feel good. We all want to to be loved, to be rewarded, to have something feeling and associate it with your habits? this connects back to what we talked about with you perform a habit and you feel good because it's person who wants to meditate each day, or I'm sessions. And then even if it's only 60 seconds, reinforcing your desired identity. So that's kind Tim Ferriss: Yeah, totally. And as you're questions and how you could phrase the, I'm the How do you make that a true statement? And it many, many years ago before I took my first I began, I hadn't thought about this in like I think it was, &quot;We're going to party James Clear: Nice. morning I would just sit down, lean against the while listening to Prince for one song. That was because as you said, I've never thought of it in and simply having, however small it a tiny slot in my mental calendar, which was, this thing. And then when I did Transcendental with many different forms of meditation was a dilation of the amount of time required, species of calendar slot. It was already there. showing up, scaling it up, increasing the scope is who's doing it every day. Yeah, those are good it's your question, Tim, I feel like I've heard this look like if it was easy? Or, what would forward to writing or looks forward to meditating worth taking seriously, because you can usually chore. This is something, this is how I want to want to get to because for a habit to last, it's be something that, like you want to show up and the version of it that benefits you the most. or what might this look like if it were easy?&quot; part of the reason for that is that I've, high pain tolerance, being able to do the hard when you're starting out, like you said, kind any open window when you're just kind of slipping James Clear: Yeah. You're opening windows that Tim Ferriss: Exactly. Like clawing like a raccoon at least for me, I think I began to associate And so the association would be, if my effort doing the thing that will produce an optimal false filter, if that makes any sense. So I podcast, I've thought, just to give an example, you know what? The technology is good enough. Why in a static position. Why not figure out, get the and go for a walk, figure out a way to record a number of these laws that you mentioned. Starlink dish in the other. You're just the guys sifting for gold on the beach. I just put the Starlink on the back of Let's use Atomic Habits as the case study. Tim Ferriss: How would you deconstruct but then also its launch, right? Because those are the things that really seemed to be the Archimedes right? You're on one side of the tennis net. Tim Ferriss: So any examples? be a long answer because there's a lot to talk writing and marketing. And also the truth I don't know, I got lucky. Maybe that's things, a lot of things you can do to influence I tried to do. So on the writing side, I think let me create more value than I'm going to thing that drives book sales is creating something it has to be so good that people will talk about sold over 10 million copies at this point. what you think the estimate is, Tim, but there's having an audience and a good marketing plan effort in. Maybe it's 25,000, maybe it's point there's some number where you can't get just by the marketing energy. It has to be word millions or tens of millions of copies, the only And I like Seth Godin's measure for this, which to create something remarkable.&quot; And that means talking about. And so you have to start with that. am I writing something that's timeless? then you have a longer period where it could really relevant to the current moment, two years it taking off. But if it's genuinely timeless -- got to the producers for television. Tim Ferriss: Similar example. Am I writing something that's pretty universal? Everybody has habits. Everybody's trying to they're not thinking about it carefully, it's in the world's going to buy the book, but pretty yeah, I get why that would be useful. That's So timeless, is it universal? And then I feel you because if you're genuinely interested I think Morgan Housel has some kind of line fun and it shows. Writing for other people is meter for that. And you need to pick in your, Psychology of Money. The title may seem generic. James Clear: Yeah. Yeah, he's fantastic. Okay. So write something universal, write something that of creating something genuinely remarkable or that I think it's worth asking like, what does it let me just give you some examples. keep interrupting because I've had too much I would also love to at some point, so you're know how you thought about modeling other of your book. Not the visual layout per se. Tim Ferriss: Structuring the book. Because sentences, quotes, application but when you went to Switzerland, right? point I'd love for you to speak to that. deconstruct the cool things that you see in you really like or that you think is cool, so deconstruct bestsellers? What's going on there? it doesn't really tell you anything. But probably something to pay attention to. So I of these examples I was going to give. So let's I was like, I know what I'm trying to achieve. and most useful book that's ever been written on it's not really for me to decide if we're being That's up to the readers to decide is that a to be the target. You've got to start there. into that outcome. So you have to try So how do we do that? I looked at a bunch of bestsellers. One of the first things I did was books. And then I was like, how are these books bestselling books, they break things into thirds have a clear structure that the book goes through even though you don't know what's in the chapters, What people don't want is they don't want to open idea where this guy's going to go with this.&quot; And A couple examples. You could do, and I thought Atomic Habits. I could've had a table of contents Present,&quot; &quot;Habits of the Future.&quot; You know pretty those categories in the table of contents. Or at the table of contents there, I think he does and then &quot;Habits of Societies.&quot; So it's like can see how he's kind of moving up the hierarchy looked at, I can't remember which one of Cal Work or something like that. But he had a section then there were four rules or six rules, and so The point is just there needs to be a clear looking through what other bestsellers are transport that onto your own experience. what is the average chapter length for a lot the publisher and the editors I was working but they were kind of encouraging me to write I was coming at this as a blogger. Most of the words. Eventually what I settled on was most of And that felt like the right one, you know? reference point. I mean one printed page, what James Clear: Yeah, I think most of 300 words. Yeah, if it's a 3,000 word chapter, So yeah, figuring out the length. I started books that weren't necessarily non-fiction. The this momentum that gets into it. It kind of keep churning through the chapters. And so I I actually think Atomic Habits is still a couldn't figure out to compress it more. My was like 712 pages or something. And the So I compressed it by 66 percent or whatever. which I think is good because I feel like they could have been a blog post or a 20-page So I wanted to do the opposite. that. It's the worst. It's so bad. if you look at books that sell really well, a they're actually even a little bit shorter than of deconstructing bestsellers on what's going this is with titles. So I have a spreadsheet of it was I said, &quot;I'm only going to look at books what I'm trying to achieve. So let me just see Tim Ferriss: Quick question, tactical access to Nielsen BookScan? to BookScan because I was just a poor so I didn't have access to any of that stuff. But Usually what happens is that when an author hits a Tim Ferriss: They'll let you know. so there's all kinds of stuff, or you'll find like there's New York Times articles that book sold six million copies,&quot; or whatever. Anyway, I put together that spreadsheet. and then I started to look for patterns. So think I ended up coming up with, they're about the top of my head, but the most common format The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up, The The Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fuck, The blah, The War of Art. It's a very proven format. The on and on. There are so many examples like that. and that's the second piece, and then they first one. Ideally, you're combining things that Magic of Tidying Up. So tidying up is the me that it's life-changing. And what you find some element of contrast in the title. There's common format is you just take, and this is -- right? You don't usually think subtle art. the least subtle thing, right? So there's Another common format, this is the one that I of your book and then you layer on some I'll get to Atomic Habits in a second, but take ownership and responsibility for your not just a regular idea of taking ownership. but it's a special kind of work. It's not the These are just examples. There are a couple more got to decide like, which one makes the most best fit for my book? And which one can you live with forever? because they need to pass a lot of filters. They Like in my case, it needed to actually talk some element of contrast. In my case, &quot;atomic&quot; so your habit should be easy to do. It can be the build into molecules and systems versus goals is immense energy or power. So I think if you combine the book, which is you make changes that are small other like units in a larger system, and then you as a byproduct. So for all of those reasons, I So It needs to describe what the topic is. a little bit different. Sometimes good habits really using the phrase &quot;atomic habits&quot; a way that you would describe a habit. You might it as atomic. And so that allows me to -- been good habits, just for people out with the entire internet for search results. into this pitfall, which is they use a phrase that can own in the reader's mind. You don't want to be phrase &quot;good habits.&quot; 4-Hour Workweek is a good before the book. It was a little bit weird in the and that allowed you to own it. James Clear: It also had that element of contrast week, you're telling me I can work for four?&quot; that might be like Rich Dad Poor Dad. That book So it needs to be something that you actually it needs to have this element of contrast. and that's why coming up with good titles is hard. because there may be some -- I have a lot of listen to this podcast. If you guys are starting &quot;Oh, my god, this is marketing. I hate I'd like to emphasize that if you want if you want a book you write to be remarkable, what are the antecedents to something be it needs to be remembered. People can't remember way that is meaningful. And this also translates 4-Hour Workweek I had this DEAL structure and to structure the book, but then also how had multiple options that could have worked. of them could have worked. But if I want someone which requires recall, the elements in the DEAL, that is easy to remember was I think how many things are outside of your control, not will hit the bestseller list, but necessary. What were some of the critical decisions, or I me, but it could also be lucky happenings that you James Clear: First of all, the launch of 15 months ahead of time. It was like a has to be that long. I think you could still but you're going to need a lot of time. Sometimes my book's coming out in two months, what should I do, but in a sense you're already a year behind. it's not like an accident when you see a lot of of time on it. So that's the first thing is you So what do you do with that year? Well, we many things that I did that you have never heard larger scale than most people would've done. podcast tour for your book is a very popular, We put together a list. So I went through that we felt like could be relevant to et cetera, and went all the way through. For each like a hundred shows or so in each category. those categories, and then we identified every wasn't trying to convince anybody to bring me put all those shows in a spreadsheet. then I wrote individual emails to all 300 hosts. template, but I would customize each one. And say, &quot;Hey, you've had on this previous guest in this episode, I feel like I could provide it already went over well with your audience. If the show is going to be successful whether let me know and I feel like we could have a of those emails for 100 of them to work out. about three to four months before the book came them all out and getting interviews scheduled. out recording as many as I could. And I ended launch week. We asked everybody to release but pretty much everyone at least would either And this is one of my core principles for the You want to have as much energy as possible in this better than almost anybody, the idea is. You want to feel like it's everywhere. I did an additional 25 during the month that the one month, I had a hundred interviews that had hit of action going on there. At this point, by the 400,000-450,000 subscribers, somewhere around to provide. So we sent a sample chapter, we sent excerpts during launch week. I had that segment we sent that out. So there were probably four or Similar to what you did with 4-Hour Body and so the book during launch week, I think there was a question. If you bought three copies, you got If you got 10 copies, you got something else. three copies, and 10. I did have one additional or 1,000 books or something like that, I would one again because I ended up giving a keynote in Tim Ferriss: Surprise. there were some smart people out &quot;This is a great deal for us.&quot; Anyway, but And so I did the bonuses, I did the emails and all of that action is happening more but definitely in the same one-month window. We also sent out influencer copies or whatever I didn't want to send any galleys to anybody. I wanted their experience to be the actual, possible. So we waited to send those out. a list of advanced folks. the same way with the podcast, I only wanted to to spam people with the book. Again, this takes of people who we thought would be a good fit, &quot;Hey, I've got this book coming out, would you send it to?&quot; And it was only people -- people? Sorry to be a pain in the ass. Tim Ferriss: Who's a good fit? the one that everybody thinks of is, oh, it's the topic that I'm writing about. But I actually we made a list. So again, what are we trying to and help it generate word of mouth. So I think one already have a lot of word of mouth? What are the they just can't shut up about? And so I came bullet journalers, parenting and of categories of people who they love to ended up having 15 categories or so. can I pause for one second? Tim Ferriss: There's a restaurant here and they're famous for their signs that they put and these have become books now, mugs, everything, &quot;If someone does CrossFit and is vegan, I thought was pretty good. So continue. though. There are things that people get genuinely that are in that industry about, or interested those. I think I had 15 or so. And then I went which of these communities is the book a good Tim Ferriss: That's so smart. Very smart. I don't remember what it was, but let's say it was as an example. And so I think one of the first all the big CrossFitters on Instagram.&quot; And then I CrossFitters, we did 30 venture capitalists, Tim Ferriss: Why venture capitalists? If you James Clear: Wait, what did you say? That stands out from the others. book about growth, getting one percent better each habits, building a successful company. I am often teams about those types of things. So all of that felt like it overlapped well with business. And and they're the kind of modern version of venture on Twitter or they've got their own podcasts we felt like the topic overlapped and they Tim Ferriss: Let me dig a little bit on this errand, but I can kind of illustrate something them to the venture capitalists in part because fashion to their audiences, maybe it wouldn't your income streams is speaking to businesses James Clear: That might be true. That was was doing the launch. It might be true, it might about it. But all I was thinking about at the out and how can I get in front of them or make it probably enjoy it. Again, this all kind of goes or not wanting to have a lot of energy in a small What ended up happening is that the CrossFitters venture capitalists, for example, I don't even them to people that said they wanted a copy. like, &quot;Yeah, I would love a copy.&quot; So then I sent But they just didn't talk about it as much they didn't read it right away. Whatever the it was kind of interesting to them. I feel like followers on Instagram, you're probably sent a lot of stuff like that, but you're very this is kind of cool. This is a topic that will this.&quot; And so they opened it up and a lot of them We didn't ask for any of that, by the way. We just get them a book that we felt like was a great What ended up happening is, I've got all these I got the CBS segment, and then 20 of the their story within the same two-week span. Now, CrossFitters on Instagram and you see -- That means everyone is seeing this book. I know is reading this right now.&quot; And that's not universe. And so again, it's like, how can you of time? And so once we figured out that it worked &quot;Okay, let's branch out in fitness.&quot; So then we power lifters and so on. And it has turned out fitness and they love the book and they recommend their own training and so on. And so we had to I actually do think it's one that a lot of but it just was a slower burn with them. It Anyway, you get the idea. None of those is familiar with that if you're looking up, how we tried to do it all at the same time, and we people were doing. At first, we only sent we've sent a thousand. Sorry, what was that? in where you chose to go an inch wide and a observed launching books, they kind of half-ass two dozen things. Tim Ferriss: I mean, that sounds too pejorative sprinkle effort across a ton of different If we're trying to quantify it, let's just say That could be the Wall Street Journal, which at It's compiled based on Nielsen BookScan and other but it's largely editor's choice list. because the Amazon charts are the e-book, and audio into a single number. they're only counting what's on Amazon, 90 percent of print books. It's probably basically the only way that people listen to Kindle's the way that most people read e-books. books are actually selling best -- James Clear: -- is the most sold list on Amazon. just like your morning TV show, the New York that these other bestselling list [do] not have. of Atomic Habits? We put, &quot;#1 New York Times Tim Ferriss: Right, exactly. truest number, but it doesn't have the branding. least last I checked, depends on the category and the possibility of selling, again, depending on and choose a soft week if you're competing in this as a side note. You can study these things. If right before Thanksgiving and Christmas. You're that. So pick your timing. But if you have to selling 20,000 copies for two consecutive weeks, one medium, podcasts, email, fill in And then if you had the ability to add on a shape your entire launch strategy around just a thought exercise that is worth doing and well-meaning advice of many people you have to be on this. You must do this, this, you're going to have a must-do list of 20 exclusive if you're trying to be excellent do you think would've happened had you not had people at the time and had been 4,500 people? Obviously, there's no way to know, but it made it's the only reason that the book happened to have no credentials. I don't work for the New York New York would probably tell you, &quot;Oh, we were his writing and stuff.&quot; But the truth is they have an email list of hundreds of thousands of So this is one of the things that I love about credentials. Anybody can write on any topic and thing is that means you need to be careful about up and write whatever they want. But the good permission from anybody. What you need is to write that genuinely makes a difference and is useful the problem that you're writing about, then you're Anyway, that wasn't a direct answer to your enormous important part of it. It got the book the needle on book sales during launch week. The if you could only do one thing. If I had I have 2 million email subscribers, so maybe it was smaller, I would spend time building the does so many things that are helpful. As you're you're refining your ideas, you're you're figuring out what your best concepts are. which puts you in a better position. And then And so now you have people that you can launch to. your book's coming out in five months but you have a book that's written, what would probably just try to do as many podcasts as achieve and gain new advantages. Right now, your how are you going to spend it? And then if you now you have a really good episode, maybe you can to some other shows that are like one level up and Then you try to knock those out of the park and and send it to the next level up and so on. And So I would do email first, but if I didn't Tim Ferriss: How many Instagram if any, for you to give up your email list? Tim Ferriss: So let's say, yeah, so 10 compelling number be, if there is one? it. It would have to be over 100 million. I Tim Ferriss: Say more. control of it. So Instagram can be, the algorithm could whatever. I don't write about provocative If you had 100 million followers, also, I'm not just phantom followers. You're assuming Tim Ferriss: Yeah. Yeah. If Kim to co-post on my Instagram with me.&quot; give you all my Instagram followers. Tim Ferriss: &quot;We'll do makeup and booty James Clear: Right. Yeah. James Clear: I know. My next book is Booty Habits. just saying. you, man. That sounds like a bestseller to me. but that's okay. Yeah. I don't know. There's obviously some I don't know. Email's just so and Instagram is pretty constrained. It's got to Tim Ferriss: I'm in a similar &quot;I'll give you a 50 million.&quot; I wouldn't trade. I did with the first book and pretty much every I will send out galleys in some cases, because it allowed me to just have a longer lead They violate every rule of length. They tend to explore these books. So I will send out galleys. there are a few citations, no appendix, contents, because that stuff is moving around. have a final cover, as an example. But what I will they're galleys or actual final product is, and I feel like, if people skip some of these time sacrificing a lot of long-term potential. Because Get some Post-it Notes and pick specific &quot;if you don't have time to read the whole book, I tabbed the chapter that I think is going to most interesting to you,&quot; which requires you to do pitches to these podcasts. You had so-and-so on. audience really responded well to X. &quot;Why don't and C.&quot; And that due diligence pays incredible was exactly what I did for bloggers for so I could offer different blogs, different a particular facet of the book. And that required James Clear: Yep, it's worth it. I did the same I can remember sending a message to Naval and genuinely think you'll find the book interesting. I think these are the three to read.&quot; And I have &quot;Thanks, I got it.&quot; And so, that was it. And actually writing real emails to the podcasters and the pages that you think will be most useful for that stuff, it helps. It actually works. very deliberate and very thoughtful about how you takes one or two. So doing that diligence likelihood of you at least having one or two hits. just used, which is &quot;thoughtful,&quot; that's the that I actually hope that's the primary lesson conversation, talking about writing Atomic marketing of it and the launch of it. I don't this sounds like a lot of marketing or whatever.&quot; I hope what comes through is that what I'm the research of the product, the creation of the I'm trying to be as thoughtful as possible, version of the book, to share the best examples will be the best fit for the book, and to deliver and makes it as easy as possible for them to And if you're thoughtful at each stage of that a better outcome. And if you are just trying because you want to have a book, you don't want to it and get it to as many people as possible, you don't really care about who it is that it then it is just really hard to have a great stage, then it tends to work out much better. the frameworks and principles in Atomic Habits, anything, that you wish more people paid that gets glossed over or maybe doesn't stick, but you think it, or these things, are important. like, &quot;Shit, I don't know if I made a mistake in its fair shake in the sense of its importance.&quot; like, &quot;Maybe I thought that idea Tim Ferriss: There might be that too. two things that came to mind. The first one is, maybe about halfway through or 40 percent through, doing things in the same sequence each time, get you in the mindset and kind of initiate the and I had the same pre-game routine that I did switch in your mind, where it's like, &quot;Hey, Or the example I gave in the book was this library and he would go to the library, on his headphones and play the same playlist. that got him in the mindset to do his writing that no music was playing, he just had his he was writing, and he was 20 minutes into writing how just that sequence of doing it the same way that little ritual, got him in the mindset. He just ready to write. And so, if you can come up that can be a great way to initiate a habit. And I actually, I've heard some examples like I think, when you talked to Josh Waitzkin at maybe it was in his books, maybe it was a in this national competition, martial arts. at one time, and they came up to him and he was &quot;Hey, sorry, timing was wrong. You're actually I would've been thrown off.&quot; But he had and he tried to, as he developed it over time, it he tried to compress it. So it was seven And then, eventually, got it down to where his seconds. And so, they woke him up on that bench, all he needed was 30 seconds to get in the &quot;Okay, now I'm ready to go.&quot; And so, those make it your own and come up with something into the mindset to compete or to perform. could be, his personal example. He's also talked champion Brazilian jiu jitsu, arguably, maybe not the best, who's ever competed in Brazilian jiu minutes before he'll compete in a world to most writers who I have had on the podcast, much like this person who went to the library. And consensus. There's no consensus. and you need to make it your own. say, &quot;Yeah, I just dick around for the first two that long for me to just scribble or complain the page with something and then it turns into an the beginning of what I need to work on that day.&quot; it becomes greater than the pain Tim Ferriss: Yeah. Or Neil Gaiman and he is like, write, but I'm not allowed to do anything else.&quot; That's great. And B.J. Novak also has his own approach. And for me, right now, we're working on fiction six months, finding the routine, how I make the how I set up my laptop on the laptop stand. It's So that was one. The pre-game sequence. ritual that works for you. And then, the other if I had to pick a topic that I feel like is more book, I would probably say this, and that's the of multiple tribes. Sometimes, those tribes are sometimes, they're small, like what it means to local gym. But all of those tribes that you belong all have this set of expectations. They've got a in that group and what the typical way is to act And the more that your habits go with the grain of they feel like to you, because it's like, &quot;Hey, And the more that they go against the grain of the stick to, especially in the long run. Maybe you a month or two, but at some point, you kind of you're conflicting with the group. And it becomes the little takeaway that I kind of think of where your desired behavior is the normal then it becomes really motivating to stick to it. are part of that group, the other expectations, People will join a CrossFit gym because they you turn around, six months later, and they're knee sleeves and they buy the same workout gear intended to build. But they just kind of soaked And ultimately, I think this comes back to which is this need to bond and connect. We want to belong. We want to fit in. And if that I don't really love, but I fit in, I the habits that I want to have, but I'm cast out, the desire to belong will overpower the you've got to get those two things aligned desired behavior is the normal behavior. you are the average of the five people you for people who are starting off the new how to best ensure that you leads to these new behaviors, front load it, make some type of bet with one of your friends, Set it up so it is painful not to do it. I know the carrot. You're also going to use the carrots. from an incentives perspective to do it. use the carrots. The flip side of that is, so easy and frictionless and obvious to do it. Try you say are important to you are the obvious and you can do is just think about one habit you're you spend most of your time each day. Kitchen, and ask yourself, &quot;what behaviors are obvious Tim Ferriss: Yeah, that's really good. things that you can tweak to make the good habit or the things you want to avoid, less obvious one or two little adjustments like that is not you make a dozen or two dozen or 50 and you're rooms where you're spending space each day are now you've got a tailwind rather than a headwind. if you have great willpower or that you're really the environment that you already set up. one or two changes can make a huge difference. There's a reason I don't cook brownies all the my house, because I will eat all the fucking And rather than view that as a failing, yes, I through broken glass to develop the willpower to or I can just not have the chips in my pantry. A lot of it is positioning. If you have a dog and doesn't get along well with other dogs and you see street. Don't put the dog in a bad situation. That friends or our family members. We're like, &quot;Oh, we do it to ourselves all the time. So try to environment, rather than being hindered by it. I don't want to misquote them, but when I had something like, &quot;Your mind is a stupid little those lines. And if you think about it, I think about dog training a lot. And I trained worked with all these different trainers and surprise. And there are these basic things, they have a problem because their dog chews where did the dog spend most of its time for its they'll be like, &quot;Oh, he ran around the house.&quot; floor?&quot; &quot;Yes.&quot; And that's how the dog developed a your dog and you simply prevent them from they're not going to eat shoes. generally speaking. And for humans too, it's Tim Ferriss, then don't leave the shoes on the This is a solvable problem. So I find a lot of brute force willpower. And I'm not saying this like that, you can set up systems and you can you are looking for the upstream habits, So whenever I've wanted to get in better they're like, &quot;What should I eat?&quot; exercise first.&quot; Because if you eat well, but if you exercise very often, you're not going bunch of crap. If you exercise and you're like, you're going to have this sunk cost effort and you'll be less inclined to screw it And in making those types of decisions, you easier for yourself. And I'm also looking at my coffee, coffee.&quot; So if I want to reduce my this room that I spend so much time in. would like to say, James? We've been going now for almost three hours, and I think this is But is there anything else you'd like to mention? the direction of your habits. And a lot of launching a book or writing a book, whether it's growing an email list or developing a creative back to doing small things well each day, waking up again tomorrow and doing the same and that's fine. We all want to get better are a lagging measure of your habits. So your bank habits. Your physical fitness is a lagging like the amount of clutter in your living room, So if you want your results to change, the that actually need to change. It's like fix the I don't think that means you have to be radical your entire life. Really, all you need to do is lot with five good minutes. Five good minutes of of conversation can restore a relationship. feel great about the manuscript again. And so on the path, to continue to make progress. mastering the art of showing up, trying to get a that you can keep in mind as you try to just live And that really one of the core ideas of Atomic And it's really about that. It's not about improvement,&quot; or 1.6 percent, or whatever. It's a philosophy, it's an approach, that &quot;I'm on and I'm going to try to stay on a good path, trust that that will compound and multiply and Because the truth is, time will magnify whatever your ally, and all you need is patience. But if every day that goes by, you kind of dig the hole Habits, the strategies for making small changes, it's all about getting time to work for you. And I to reinforce your desired identity. And hopefully, where you're at in the progress you've made. spoil that with adding any commentary that to close. James Clear, you can find him at @JamesClear, will link to everything including the in the show notes, as per usual, tim.blog/podcast. great. Took a ton of notes. I have homework. bags of coffee to remove from my immediate amplified my enthusiasm for the new year. So I to play the tennis match of this conversation. Tim. Really appreciate it, man. just a little bit kinder than is necessary today. our dear friend, Arken Locus, we will not rise to the levels of our training and our systems. So