The King of France has a good plan So that everyone knows We are abusing Yang Tianzong's body Qi Jiguang will definitely come to grab his body So we set up a dragnet Catch them all Kill all these people By then, Taizhou, Hangzhou, Wenzhou That's all in the general's bag. really My son Hang in there Help! Help! I'll kill you, help me, help me What happened? He hit me. He hit me, stop hitting me Don't hit him, hit me. Let go, let go He hit me You must never let go Help me, I'm not being polite to you. Let me kill you Beat him and beat me Letting go Still fighting? No more fighting. No more fighting. Still fighting? You two seem impatient, right? I tell you Be honest with me Otherwise I'll put you in solitary confinement Amitabha When did you learn this skill? People drifting in the rivers and lakes There must be a trick. Walk Walking Miss Guo A few young heroes Where are you going? Don't even say hello to me. General Qi is not unwilling to fight I'm afraid this greeting We can't get out. I know You are for Brother Yang Can go through mountains of swords and seas of fire But You are all pillars of the country. Instinct can save millions of people from danger You should cherish your own life I won't let you die in vain. General Qi, please stop talking. If people want to calculate so clearly, then they should stop living. I'm crazy for the rest of my life Job hunting conscience My brother saved me. I won't even blink if I die for him We are like brothers to the Yang brothers How can I abandon him? General Qi Even if a few of us die I also want to die with Brother Tianzong Ruoxian, what are you saying? Ruoxian, what are you saying? How can you be so stubborn? General Qi, stop talking. I have assembled the army We will attack Chenyu Island tomorrow You wait one more day Wait one more day Tomorrow I will definitely take Young Master Yang's body Get it back Still waiting Just one day My elder brother has been exposed to the sun and whipped to death Wait one more day My elder brother has been crushed to ashes by them. Walk Slow down Crazy Boy It's not that I don't want you to go. Young Master Yang saved my life I don't want to go now. But have you ever thought about it? Even if we go now Not only can we not get back Young Master Yang's body, Instead, they will die in vain. When my assembled army arrives tomorrow I also hope that you can bring a few hundred soldiers. Join me in attacking Chenyu Island Please put the overall situation first. Wait one more day General Qi Just let us go. Report What's up Young Master Yang was rescued What Brother Tianzong Yang Young Master Yang, don't touch him. The three poisons in his body are fighting poison with poison If we gather the inner strength of several great masters Open up the Ren and Du acupoints for him Maybe there is still hope Get started Let's get started together Big Brother Tianzong Big Brother Tianzong Big Brother Tianzong Brother Yang Brother Yang He's fine now. Help him to go to the room and rest. Help me up! Help me up! Come quick Thank you for your help, hero Excuse me I am Yang Shu Tianzong is the dog below Qi Jiguang met Yang Daxia Met General Qi Go fast Tianzong Tianzong Tianzong Tianzong Tianzong Tianzong Tianzong Tianzong God, you woke up Do you know how much I worry about you? I thought I won't see you anymore. fool Ask Mei Look, I'm fine, aren't I? This time I escaped death All the tendons in my body have been opened up. Better than before Don't worry I tell you Yang Tianzong From now on You're not allowed to do stupid things anymore Can't leave me alone Did you know I know I said Let me see if your injury has healed. Brother Yang father father My child, you are still recuperating. Come sit down now. Dad, please sit down first. My child, you help General Qi fight against the Japanese invaders. Dad is very pleased It's just that you work so hard It's just that you work so hard It makes dad very worried. You are my eldest brother's father No wonder his martial arts skills are so good This is Dad, this is my brother. Crazy Beggar Old Five If you were my eldest brother's father That's my crazy dad. I'll be your son, okay? Crazy and cute indeed Okay, it's up to you. I will accept your crazy son real I'm Crazy Five and I have a dad father This is Miss Guo Hello, Uncle Yang Hello, Miss Guo child Do you know what this is? Saved your life Could it be the inner strength of Daddy and everyone else? No What is that What is that A true life-saving antidote It's the last poison. King of Poison King of Poison father This poison is the most poisonous thing in the world. How can I save my life? How can I save my life? Although Wang Du is the king of poisons The most poisonous thing is the king of poison But maybe you were poisoned by the five poisons before Hedinghong This great poison of extreme yin and extreme yang In my body, a Extremely rare reaction You are really lucky. This poison didn't kill you. It prolongs your life Enhances your skills When the reaction reaches its peak When the toxicity breaks out Wang Du suddenly enters Three toxins that fight poison with poison in your body These toxins are naturally eliminated Three types Senior, what do you mean? At that time Wuduhui is no longer Wuduhui Crane's Beak Red is no longer Crane's Beak Red child You are worthy of being your father's good son. You are worthy of being your father's good son. If you hadn't sacrificed yourself Block the poisonous gas with your body Block the poisonous gas with your body General Qi's Army Will become invisible The coastal defenses of Jiangsu and Zhejiang will also become more empty. The Japanese pirates will also run rampant well done Although Dad blames you Not caring for your body and hair but Dad is proud of you Dad is proud of you father General Qi told me everything. When you are in Taizhou You were poisoned by the Five Poisons in order to save Miss Zhang. In fact, you would have been very hard to survive. But you want to go to the Gate Island Rescue Lady Guo and Crazy Young Man Hedinghong Finally, to save everyone The fork is poisoned again But the final result is Several toxins are invisible in your body child It's your chivalry and kindness Save yourself father This is a blessing in disguise for me. Tianzongge This is not just a blessing in disguise And it is a blessing because of the absence of self. Blessed by the narrow sense That's it My elder brother is kind and righteous Only brothers in my heart Without myself God won't let him die. God doesn't dare to let him die Is it Big Brother? The greatest heroes serve their country and their people Keep this in mind in the future yes The child remembered That's right My eldest brother is the hero of the world Of course, there is also Dad. You are a great hero Crazy brother, don't talk nonsense The word hero I can't afford it How can you not deserve it? Of course you deserve it. The Greatest Hero When I was poisoned How do you feel How do you feel I felt like I was going to explode. Blood all over the body Like a raging sea Flowing outward Every wound on my body is bleeding I feel like a firecracker It will explode at any time Then there is pain Pain like filing bones and cutting flesh after After that, I lost consciousness Fortunately, it has all passed. Where is Tian Zong Ruo Xian? She and Zhu Tieqiao are on their way to Fujian Brother, this is such a fun thing Why don't you ask me to go? They left without even saying hello Here's what I mean I'm afraid you guys will find this difficult to accept. So I kept it a secret from you guys. What's up General Qi and I have doubts Zhu Tieqiao is the spy Brother, who do you think is the spy? How is this possible? You mean Mr. Zhu is a spy? What is going on? Military secrets leaked several times I have a spy from the Japanese pirates around me This is a sure thing. Sir Qi, how can you be so sure? The powder keg is the spy. He is the one who is a little bit annoying and has a bad temper. But his father is also a national hero. I don't believe he would betray his country. But the facts are in front of us The only person who knew General Qi's military secrets was Zhu Sui. Zheng Guolan Haoyuan and Zhu Tieqiao So from the beginning General Qi then took the suspect It's decided among these people Zhu Sui Zheng has followed me for many years. I know them best. They hate the Japanese pirates to the core and will never surrender to the enemy. So I focus on suspicion They locked onto Master Zhu and Lan Haoyuan. General Qi, let's go to Damen Island. When saving Brother Yang and Miss Guo You were against it at first But later on, the fork caught up with us So you already knew that Mr. Zhu was a spy? In fact, at that time General Qi still has a glimmer of hope for Zhu Tieqiao We don't want that spy to be him. So General Qi came up with a plan Feint attack on Chen Yu to take the main gate Just to track down the spy. How to say I will tell Mr. Zhu I will lead 3,000 men to attack Damen Island Sir Qi, since you are suspicious of this powder keg He is a spy and I told him the plan. This is General Qi's plan. If the Japanese pirates really fell into the trap That means Zhu Tieqiao is innocent. But the Dharma King returned It seems like he already knows our movements Miss Guo is right. I only told Mr. Zhu about this plan. All the actions of the Dharma King Jiuru are enough to explain everything This is General Qi's first step. General Qi and his three thousand elite soldiers landed on Damen Island Later, Lord Hu will send the main force Surrounding Damen Island To ensure the safety of General Qi and his three thousand soldiers This is the second plan Mr. Zhu was totally unaware There is another possibility If Mr. Zhu is not a spy The Japanese pirates would not know that we attacked Daimon Island. If so I can lead my troops to attack the pirates' warships G At the same time, pass the message to Mr. Hu Let him land on the island in advance What you said is all speculation. If you want to prove that Mr. Zhu is a spy You should bring out evidence. Young Master Yang follows Master Zhu I saw him connecting with the Japanese pirates. This powder keg How could you do such a thing? Wait till I see him We must teach him a lesson. Amitabha Then this time the general sent Mr. Zhu Escorting the fake Qi Jiguang and Yu Daqiu In fact, the purpose is to get rid of him Yes, General Qi wanted to take advantage of this opportunity. Deliberately let Zhu Tieqiao deliver false information Let him separate from us Our intelligence is leaked In this case Then why did you let Ruoxian go with him? With Zhu Tieqiao's wisdom He will soon find out This is just our strategy. But he would never let anyone who saw through him live. Isn't this very dangerous? Don't worry about this, Mr. Zhu likes Miss Zhang So he won't harm Miss Zhang. Don't worry, my dad will follow them all the way. Protect Miss Ruoxian at any time I really hope he can realize it one day. I also hope he knows he is really wrong. what do I do The King of France will definitely not send a master He and Feiyuan Even his apprentice would definitely not come in person. This will definitely be discovered. If that's the case, I'll just have to leave. But what about Ruoxian? Tieqiao, what are you thinking about? I didn't think of anything. You've been absent-minded all this time. Is there? What is the name of the place we just walked through? Who knows what this desolate mountain is called? The place name is engraved on the stone wall over there. Yehuling How come I didn't see it? Of course you can't see the absent-minded The road ahead is getting more dangerous. You have to cheer up. OK, I know. There are Japanese pirates You guys still want to kill General Qi and General Yu Zhu Jiangjun you Brother, what are you doing? You are the spy. Ruoxian, let's go. Where to go Go find the Dharma King Jiuru and the others Rebellion against the imperial court and killing the tyrant Revenge for our father You really are a spy. I can't be with the man who killed my father. I want to use the Japanese pirates and pirates Revenge for my father So you surrendered to the Japanese pirates. This is not surrendering, it's using them to kill the enemy. Who is your enemy? I am Brother Yang. Or General Qi and Lord Yu? good They are all my enemies I will kill them. They are for our father Born and died twice Even saved our lives. How can you say they are enemies? I don't care who stands in my way of killing you. He is my mortal enemy, Zhu Tieqiao Brother, please stop being confused. Our personal grudges How can it be compared with national affairs? As long as the tyrant is killed, the country will be safe. The people can also be at peace What about the Japanese pirates and pirates? Can they oppress the people and destroy their lives? That's only temporary. As long as you kill the tyrant The King of France will turn against the Japanese pirates and drive them out. This is what they told you You can believe these words I believe who can help me get revenge I can't control so much Brother, I understand your desire for revenge. But you can't be an accomplice to the evil without distinguishing between friend and foe I promise you I will wait until we kill all the Japanese pirates. I'll go back to Beijing with you. Kill Yan Song and that tyrant But now Ruoxian, why don't you understand? We can't get revenge just by the two of us. We only have the power to contact pirates and Japanese pirates To defeat the Ming army Only by defeating the Ming army can the imperial court be overthrown Only then can you kill the tyrant What you are doing now is selling out your country. You are a running dog Uncle Zhu will not let his son be a running dog. To avenge him You should stop being stubborn. Please come back with me They will definitely forgive you. No, I won't go back even if I die. I feel sick when I think of Yang Tianzong If you weren't obsessed with him Maybe I'll listen to you. This is our personal matter How can it be compared with national affairs? Enough This is the revenge God has arranged for me. I can only do this Ruoxian, come with me. I will treat you well forever As long as we kill the tyrant We will retire to the mountains and grow old together I will give you a lifetime of happiness My alliance with the Japanese pirates is only temporary. You believe me Shut up since childhood I treat you as my own brother. I never expected You're so selfish. I won't go anywhere with you I will not help you to commit atrocities and bring disaster to the country and the people. Just give up on this idea. Ruoxian, don't be stubborn anymore I'll tell you what Qi Jiguang Whoever stands in my way must die Zhu Tieqiao, don't waste your efforts. If you still have blood in you You come back with me now You must insist on not going back Then we'll be severing our ties If you have the ability, we'll meet on the battlefield. By then we will be enemies. I will never let you go Get started Ruoxian, I must take you away Godfather, what do you think about our What are the chances of success in attacking Wenzhou City? Why do you think my foster father would attack Wenzhou? What does godfather mean by this? We received a secret report It's not that Wenzhou City's defenses are weak. Are we going to take advantage of the situation this time? Wrong, we came to Wenzhou just for a bluff The child does not understand what you mean Yuanzheng, do you still remember Qi Jiguang? How did the government attack Quanshuan Island? Gate Island I remember we received a secret report from Zhu Tieqiao It is said that Hu Zongxian led the main force to attack Chenyu Island Then Qi Jiguang led 3,000 people Sneak attack on Damen Island to rescue Yang Tianzong The actual situation is that Qi Jiguang led 3,000 people We wanted to play on Damen Island, but when we got to the island, When I wanted to catch Qi Jiguang in a jar Hu Zongxian led the main force They attacked the island and surrounded us. What does this mean? This shows that the news we received is false. A teachable child So the guy surnamed Zhu He joined Qi Jiguang again. This is unlikely I think my heart is exposed. Anyway, the news he sent is unreliable. The secret report said that Wenzhou City's defenses were now empty. The opposite is true. If I guessed correctly, There will be Ming troops waiting for us ahead of us. Since my godfather knew this was a trick, Why should we take such a risk? If we don't come, Qi Jiguang would notice it once he found out The army led by Hihara Xun has already headed to Hangzhou If that happens, we will fail. say what Fei Yuanxun led our main force to Hangzhou Yes, if they want to kill three thousand of us I think it should be possible to have one side's military strength. When they found out we were going to attack Wenzhou We need 20,000 people. In this case, they would need 50,000 people in total. Come together to defeat us The Ming army in Jiangsu and Zhejiang had only 100,000 soldiers. Jiangsu and Zhejiang have only 60,000 troops. They also deployed more than 20,000 troops along the coast. So Hangzhou is now a ghost town. So, this time we came to Wenzhou Just a trick to lure the enemy All is fair in war This is not like our Central Plains martial arts world where you kill me and I kill each other. This is a plan within a plan So we have the confidence to win But we only have 3,000 people. Definitely no match for the main force of the Ming army We will not meet the Ming army Once we encounter the Ming army, we can just escape. You and I can escape But our three thousand men Well, these three thousand men can't leave. But he can help us delay time. My foster father wants to sacrifice these three thousand people. You can't catch a wolf without sacrificing your child Godfather has a good plan. If he is our killer Then he killed Qi Jiguang and Yu Daqiu along the way. Then we have a better chance of winning. Do you really think Qi Jiguang and Yu Daqiu On the way to Fujian Zhu Tieqiao's secret report shows Qi Jiguang has changed his plan to go to Fujian The person on the road now should be Zhu Tieqiao Zhang Ruoxuan and the fake Qi Jiguang and Yu Daqiu But Zhu Tieqiao has been exposed His information must be inaccurate. This may not be Qi Jiguang's real purpose in getting Zhu Tieqiao out of the way I just don't want him to know Qi Jiguang's route. Prevent him from tipping us off. Zhu Tieqiao is of no use to us. He can be considered a discarded pawn. But before abandoning him I want to use him again. Qi Jiguang wanted to use Zhu Tieqiao to plot against me I'll turn him around and put him in a room Stepfather Why did you hide such a good plan from me? Because it's confidential. Only I and Hihara Xun know about this plan. But I am the leader of the Sea Eagle Gang after all. Of course you are the leader of the Seahawks. But in front of me, you are my relative My son's future son-in-law. right If we quibble over this matter So can we still be considered a family? The child knows he is wrong ? Okay, Yuanzheng, get ready. Ming army leader Qi Jiguang is waiting for us in front. General Generals, why are you here? No Japanese pirates were found in the general Yueqing area No enemy was found on the Taizhou front line General Yu believes The main force of the Japanese pirates must be here Their target should be Wenzhou So he ordered the two of us to lead the team to help General Yu estimated 5 The Japanese pirates who invaded Wenzhou numbered no less than 50,000. 50,000 people right That's in terms of military strength. It should be on par with us. But they wouldn't expect me to be here. 2 In this battle, they wanted to rely on their numbers I thought I was guarding Yueqing and Taizhou So I dare to venture deeper If Qi Jiguang really wanted to ambush us This should be it. This is a good place for an ambush. You guys listen to my orders. All soldiers are ready to be alert Encountered Ming army blocking Go ahead at all costs yes As soon as the war starts, we will leave immediately Yes Yes Silver Gun Order the army to advance at full speed The King of France has ordered us to move forward at full speed General Qi Young Master Yang General Qi, based on our observations The Japanese pirates' team had no more than 3,000 men. Besides Wang Yuanzheng, there is also Jiuru Besides his three disciples The rest did not show up So this should not be the main force of the Japanese pirates. Could this be a trap on their part? It seems so Their real target is not Wenzhou But Taizhou and Yueqing are not their targets. I wonder if the Japanese pirates will He is hiding in Chenyu Island and won't come out I think they must be using a trick to lure the tiger away from the mountain All the troops in Zhejiang have been transferred here It will be troublesome if they invade other places. We can't determine their goal now. General, I have a plan that you can try. Young Master Yang, please speak quickly If we fight with him, He will definitely rush over to join the main force So what we have to do now Just keep an eye on the Dharma King Jiuru Young Master Yang is very thoughtful. Let's do this. Then we split up good Walk Release the arrow Release the arrow Monk, look Kill, kill, kill Kill, kill, kill Kill, kill, kill Kill Kill withdraw withdraw Walk General General Song, go chase Young Master Yang Report back immediately if anything happens. yes General Nguyen I'll leave it to you here. Other soldiers follow me. Lai Ruoxian drinks water Sir, your face is coming Please use slowly OK, thanks Come and eat noodles Ruoxian waits for us to finish eating the noodles before we set off Let's buy a horse on the way This way we can go much faster Arrived in Hangzhou I'll buy you whatever you want to eat. Sell the horse! Sell the horse! I'll go check it out The best horse Selling horses, ah, Qianlima Walk a thousand miles a day and eight hundred miles a night, and be fat and strong A thousand-mile horse Who wants a good horse? Ruoxian really has horses for sale I'm going to buy a horse. Please wait for me for a moment. Look at the horse seller. How much do you sell this horse for? Five taels of silver Ruoxian horse has been bought After we finish eating, we will set off. How did you untie the acupuncture points? Let's turn from darkness to light You are still my good brother. You are wrong Ruoxian I just don't want to be a lackey of the tyrant emperor in the court. This is my true turning from darkness to light. You don't distinguish between friend and foe To be a lackey of the Japanese pirates I'm going to clean up the house today. Unexpectedly I didn't expect we would get to this point. We shouldn't be enemies. I can die in your hands I have no regrets either. Get started Take care of yourself Ruoxian thanks Uncle Yang for saving her Girl, you've been wronged. Uncle, my senior brother Needless to say I heard everything you said in the mountains I really didn't expect that Mr. Zhu He actually became a minion of the Japanese pirates It's so sad Uncle, why are you here? Aren't you supposed to be in Yueqing with Brother Tianzong and the others? This is a long story, I'll tell you later. What should we do next? Miss Zhu said she was going to Hangzhou Did I hear that correctly? He did say Do you know why he went to Hangzhou? yes Why did he go to Hangzhou? That's weird. He has already surrendered to the Japanese pirates and brought you with him Should go to Wenzhou or Chenyu Joining forces with the Japanese pirates But he wanted to go to Hangzhou where there were no Japanese pirates. Don't you think this is weird? Hangzhou is the seat of the Liangjiang Governor-General's Office It was also a place heavily defended by the Ming army. But as far as I know, there are no heavy troops in Hangzhou now. Most of the Ming army has been transferred to Wenzhou Yueqing and Taizhou Go to Hangzhou now Are they planning to launch a surprise attack on Hangzhou? Anyway, it's possible. We have to go to Hangzhou now Fortunately, there is a post station forty miles ahead. I'll wait for you there Uncle Yang, can we reach Hangzhou before dawn? At this speed it will arrive soon The Japanese pirates are coming. The Japanese pirates are coming. Hurry up to the city! The Japanese pirates are coming! Hurry up and go to the city Quick Everyone, go to the city and defend it! Go to the city and defend it Go to the city and defend it quickly The Ming army defending the city was only more than a thousand people. There are more than 300 of us who sneaked in. More than a thousand Ming soldiers are not enough for me to kill. Boss But it's difficult for ordinary people to do this. You all saw it This is what happens when you back down from a fight. The common people are a mob We can kill a hundred of them alone. You all should listen to me. You are now pretending to be Chinese Follow the common people up the city wall and blend in with them When Master Hihara arrives You guys just do it together Killed the civilians and soldiers guarding the city Then open the gate as soon as possible. What about you? We go to the Governor's Mansion to kill the Ming Dynasty Governor Brothers, follow me. You have all seen the prosperity of Hangzhou City Can I eat this piece of fat? It's up to us, Master Hihara said. As long as we kill that Ming Dynasty governor Each person will be rewarded with 100 taels of gold One hundred taels, so much. The beauties in Hangzhou are there for you to enjoy Rob Hangzhou, rob jewelry, rob women, rob Hangzhou Go to the Governor's Mansion and divide into three teams We are just one of them You all listen to me. If other teams Killed the Ming Dynasty Governor We can even smell women and gold I can't smell it anymore. Do you understand? clear Hearing the sound of cannon outside the city Let's rush out together Like chopping a watermelon Chop off every Chinese person's head yes How can this be possible? How can this be possible? This is outrageous. This is outrageous. How many defenders are there in the city? 1,100 people What one thousand and one hundred people? A few days ago, General Qi and General Yu Most of the garrison troops were transferred to Taizhou and Wenzhou I know this Have the defenders deployed on the city walls? All have climbed into the city But due to the small number of Too little too little What's the point of saying these things at this time? Have all the people who asked for help been sent out? Sent out How many people can be mobilized in the city? About 5,000 people Great, great, it's better to have someone than no one Remember All young and middle-aged people who do not participate in the defense of the city After the war, all were punished for collaborating with the Japanese No forgiveness yes The general thought We can't defend it with our current strength. There are 50,000 Japanese pirates What do you mean you want to escape? I dare not I will live and die with the city of Hangzhou. Why are you saying these discouraging words? I beg you to evacuate Hangzhou immediately. The last general is to die in battle I will never leave Hangzhou. Don't say it I will never leave Hangzhou The Marshal's Ambition to Defend the City Should be a model for all ages But we cannot let the Marshal take risks here. Please leave the city and go to Shaoxing immediately. Get out of town Well, if I abandon the city, I'm sorry, Your Majesty. I'm sorry to the people. And will leave a name of infamy for all eternity And will leave a name of infamy for all eternity I will stand here and command the defense of the city. Never leave Marshal Who dares to speak of leaving the city again? alright alright Go up to the city wall. If there is any situation Report to the officer promptly Yes Yes Okay, go ahead. To catch a thief, first catch the leader and kill a few Japanese chieftains first. The Japanese pirates will surely fall into chaos after losing their command. The Japanese pirates will surely fall into chaos after losing their command. Yeah, but I believe The truth you can understand The Japanese pirates will also understand The Japanese pirates will also understand You mean Mr. Hu in Hangzhou? It's Miss Guo You leave immediately and enter Hangzhou city Protect Mr. Hu Brother, how can we let Bingshan go alone? It's so dangerous. I'll go with her. Miss Guo is a martial arts expert Besides, the Japanese pirates who sneaked into the city were not good enough. With Miss Guo's martial arts Subduing them is no problem Miss Guo, it's getting late. It's still some distance from here to Hangzhou. Let's go. You all should be careful You have to be careful too. Tell Lord Hu to hold out for two hours Once the Japanese pirates break through the city It will be even more difficult to eliminate them. I see Let's go Brother, shall we do as we agreed? Burn them to death and lure away those experts This is our Japanese god of war Trivial Skills How dare you show off in front of me? Come and see monk monk monk What the hell are you yelling about? Why don't you catch me? Nonsense, you are so heavy, who can catch you? Come up and try it. These two brats actually pretended to be our God of War Why are you booing? You think they are deaf. I told you that this is a bad idea. You are really tough. You still have the nerve to laugh for this dress Ruined two iron pots Where did these two ignorant brats come from? Well, since you guys came to my door Don't blame me for being rude. Shenlong Don't play these childish tricks on me, kid. The archer shot him down for me. Please drink and let you drink enough Monk, you are so slow. Monk, who are you dealing with? You pick first. You let me choose this time. Don't blame me later When did you really let me go? You pick first. I chose the three weird ones at the back. The weapons they use are fun. I'll grab them and play with them. The rest is up to me. Good good good Come on monk asshole Let you taste it The power of Japanese samurai Come on, Ming Dynasty people I want to see how powerful Chinese Kung Fu is Japanese Ninjutsu is still powerful You ask me what my name is? Just call me Crazy Grandpa Your Ming Dynasty was once powerful But now it's gone Although Japanese culture originated from your China Now the disciple is better than the master. In our Ming Dynasty When a grandson sees his grandfather, he must kneel down. Japanese Ninjutsu originated from Chinese Kung Fu I've always wanted to fight with a Chinese guy. Defeat you and let you know the power of Japanese Ninjutsu What are you talking about? Don't kneel, okay? I beat you three to your knees and beg for mercy. You look down on Japanese ninjutsu Why did you tell him so much? Get started Get started etc. etc. In the Ming Dynasty It is a great rebellion for a grandson to hit his grandfather Well, today my crazy grandpa will teach you a lesson Come here, you three little bastards. What broken knife should I return to you? Shenlong Big Brother uncle He was the supreme master of the martial arts world three hundred years ago. Huang Lao Xie's special skills What Huang Laoxie is? He is just being a rogue Mr. Feiyuan doesn't know This Huang Laoxie was three hundred years ago. The top martial arts master This move is a complete plan to burn both sides. Just now, Mr. If you don't change your shape or sink I think now this kid I have become your victim. Is my brain still there? This move is about courage If you die, he dies; if you want to live, he wins. The bravest one wins when two meet on a narrow road. You mean I'm afraid of death? With the martial arts of Master Hihara It must be above this kid. You don't want to die. It's not worth dying like this. What if it was the King of Dharma just now? Then my thoughts must be the same as Master Hihara's. There is no other way each other each other The King of France is indeed magnanimous and open-minded What is magnanimity? At most, I'm afraid of death. My brother is right. One by one, they speak in a flowery way They are all cowards, caterpillars, and turtles. right Donkey dung eggs are good Rotten shit is You also No words What other words are there, bro? The monk told him Rotten persimmons against rotten persimmons Death is imminent and you are still talking nonsense Today, I, the leader, will take you, the beggar Beat into a rotten persimmon Yuanzheng and slow how We're fighting this guy here. He fell into his trap. The King of France is right. This kid just wants Delay our attack on Hangzhou Yuanzheng Dharma King You immediately send a large group of people to Hangzhou I think Qi Jiguang is on his way now. yes Ichiro, you go with Chief Wang We'll leave it to you here. yes Stepfather I want to take the fairy with me I'll wait until you conquer Hangzhou. I'll give you two a grand wedding. Wait, what did you just say? Listen to what I'm saying. Let the fairy and Yuanzheng arrange the wedding What do you wanna say? Fairy, is what he said true? What's your business? I'll kill you Crazy brother, crazy brother, calm down Don't be impulsive. Don't be impulsive. Don't listen to me. This fairy is going to marry that Toxic bastard. Can I calm down? Go Go Go Crazy Brother In my opinion, the Golden Sword Fairy She was not willing to marry Wang Yuanzheng real No, she has to tell me in person. Okay, you believe me, brother. When did you ever lie to me? The monk comes We'll keep fighting here. There's no need for that. We must hurry to Hangzhou City as soon as possible. So you must rush out Want to go This is where you will be buried today. superior Hihara-kun Stop wasting time Today, I will make you come back Die quickly Kill them for me Watch this Big Brother Big Brother Daddy Daddy Tianzong, your move &quot;Flowing Wind and Returning Snow&quot; was quite good But you have to remember the masters' moves. In a flash, the other side outnumbered them. Need to think of a few ways to go Dad was just careless. Arguing again If you don't learn well, you won't learn well. Tianzongge Brother Xianxian is a powder keg, he is not a good person It's not worth being sad for him. You are Yang Shu I am Yang Shu Very good How is it good? You and your son will die here together. Isn't that a great idea? Just a few of you To tell you the truth, I am with Feiyuan-kun I will never lose to you Okay, let's try it. Tianzong to Hangzhou Leave this to me. father Go Yes Stop them superior superior Master, Master Master Yang Shu met the nun and thanked her for her help You say thank you But in my heart I am blaming myself for being nosy. Yang Shu dared not Although you can kill these evil beasts by yourself But now that I'm here We can't just stand here and watch. How can I let you take this prize first? The Master is right Then leave these Japanese pirates to me. I'll trouble you, Master, to take care of the master and the apprentice. I'm just going to see What about the flying knife array of these Japanese pirates? How can you take advantage of this? You should deal with that old master-disciple monster. good It's important to go to Hangzhou Let them go when I come Qi Jiguang has brought their cavalry Heading to Hangzhou The army will arrive soon. Hero Yang, please follow me. I have something to talk to you about.