won't stop until say say say say say Soulmate I want a child Is that what you want? Or your parents want It's me It's okay if you can't if i stay tonight heavy at the time give you all the things that you like I know what you like took some time off just so i can set the moon right make me meet me when the sky falls in the moonlight Married for 3 years Chi Yu still refused to sleep with me I've tried so hard for so long Is it just a costume for you? Why don't you sleep more? I want to make breakfast for you myself No need. Auntie Wang's cooking is better than yours. Su Jiani Admit it No matter how much you try to please me, it's useless He doesn't love you Madam boss, why are you here? I'll send him a file. Mr. Chi is over there I heard that Bai Ying was because of Mr. Chi I agreed to this endorsement cooperation The two were classmates in high school. have no idea Mr. Chi, have you seen the latest movie of the actress Bai Ying? I always like this movie A strong woman like the White Shadow Queen? like I like his determination and perseverance. Are you publicly admitting your love for him? So where do you put me as your wife? Mr. Chi and the White Shadow Queen This atmosphere is so good. Could it be that their couple is real? Well then No I heard that Mr. Chi was waiting for Queen Bai Ying to come back. I was tricked by a scheming woman. I was forced to get married three years ago. How can you be so shameless? yes What am I? Today with Chi Yu But I'm the only one forcing it. Chi Yun I let myself go I let you go too. Chi Yun Let's get divorced You understand this question. I'll tell you again I am not Ha ha I was reborn at the age of 18 That Year There are only 30 days left until the college entrance examination Su Jiani Stone Jade Thank you I won't ask this kind of small question anymore. Thank you for helping me with questions over the years. Since God gave me a chance to start over I won't bother you anymore in this life. Shi Yu has a question I don't know Can you teach me No, I'm not free. You were the one who asked me for help. It's you who don't learn now. Three minutes of enthusiasm and still want Kausina I will rely on my own Whatever you want It's okay if you want to give up halfway But I have always kept my promise. My deskmate, you can I thought you were in love. Hey, you keep asking questions about fish every day. Do you know how many people are bending you behind your back? Are you a persistent stalker? So you really want to get into Tsinghua University I won't chase him and ask questions anymore. I have to rely on myself Susu Jiani Hey, hello I heard you like to go to bookstores I just happened to know that a new bookstore opened nearby. Do you wanna go together? Then tell me the name of the bookstore Oh, but the name of that bookstore is a bit difficult to pronounce. Why don't I add you as a friend and send you the address? Why Sorry, I didn't hold it steady. Eat Moon I'm so sorry. classmate Excuse me for adding a beautiful lady on WeChat If your phone breaks, I'll compensate you. Sure, classmate. Dare to steal our brother Yu's girl? No, this is the address of the bookstore. Goodbye, Su Why Just a little courage Su Jiani I said that even if you can't catch up with our brother Yu You're not that hungry. You two should speak politely. I am free to choose who to be friends with. And my friends are also very good I don't need you to judge It would be even better if we have jade I won't chase after Chi Yu like before. So there is no comparison. Bye Hey Jade Didn't you say you wanted to go home? It's been so long Why hasn't the driver come yet? Oops How could I forget In order to get a ride on Chiyu's car I told the driver that he doesn't need to pick me up anymore. No, I have to call him and ask him to come over quickly. Master, you and Miss Su had a quarrel Miss Su probably didn't see us. Or I'll drive over there. Yeah, okay. Su Jiani Lin Nuan gets on the bus Young Master, this is a you What do you want to do? Turn back to the old house All right, young master, sit tight. Jenny I'll make an appointment with Chi Shao in two days when I'm free. Invite him to your home for dinner He is not available Hey, kid, why are you so stubborn? I'm telling you the truth Because that day Chi Shao sent you back The people at the bank also saw it. I got a loan approved after applying for it for a long time. This is a late face You have this classmate but you don't cherish him? dad How do you know this loan won't hurt you? What do you know as a little girl? This money is normal income used to expand production How could it harm me? Flowers never last forever Dad, take care of yourself. Raised a white-eyed wolf I have no appetite You guys eat it. There will be no more persistent disease in this life. Son-in-law is here to help you fill the hole in agricultural public funds Nini, boys are most attractive at 18 Sunshine and clean Mom really envies you. Mom, not all male college students are clean. You pay attention to take measures Mom is kidding you. I'm not kidding you. Because Chiyu sent me back twice Seen by classmates who like pond fish Very jealous They're going to look up dirt on you and my dad. I found out that you were secretly meeting with a male college student. Use it to threaten me Keep me away from him Your dad and my dad are better at playing than you. If you can't make it Divorce early Su Jiani, you are really good What if I scored 150? This math and physics is also close to full marks Oops, this language is not very interesting. Only scored 100 points Then I still have some distance to go before I can get into Tsinghua University. Okay, let's go. Give me the paper Hey, let me read the flowers falling in my dream. Hey, stop making trouble Hey, bring it here. Honey, your essay is still long. I made too many mistakes in the previous questions. My car has arrived. I'm leaving first Everyone send me a message Bye Bye could look and only get wild The Chinese test paper is later than my own notes Is he also worried that I won't be able to get into Tsinghua University? Afraid that I would embarrass him But this time Chi Yu I won't follow your footsteps anymore Classmates The college entrance examination is finally over. Let me start today Set sail again I heard there will be a group photo later. I even washed my head Good sisters, let's record the wonderful moments together. Oh, are you guys still filming? It's almost time for the next class to take pictures. We agreed to take a photo. Where is Lin Nuanren? Never mind, I'll take the photo myself Come on, come on, come on, prepare 321 Why You didn't take any photos either. Didn't Brother Yu just take a photo? Why shoot again? You control me Why are you so late? I'm melting waiting I'll be there soon. I'm already at the door and there's a traffic jam The child walks without looking at the road Nuannuan, didn't you say it was just the two of us? Why are there so many people? I really only booked for the two of us They booked a room for themselves. But their private room air conditioner is broken We have obtained Lin Nuan's consent I just shared a room with you guys. Don't worry, we'll pay for the room You wouldn't be so stingy as to chase our Brother Yu away, would you? It's okay, then fight. I just found out By the way, Jiani It's almost time Let's check the scores. Oh ok Great, my score was blocked. Ah, I'm going Then you are in the top 20 in the province. How about you, Sijiani? How did you do on the test? ah I Isn't it next door? Why are you all running here? It's him White Yingluo The White Moonlight in Chi Yu's Heart Ayu Why didn't you tell me that we were going to get together? I only found out after asking my aunt. I'm going to the bathroom Why can't I forget the past? Can't you let go of Chi Yu? Do you want to go back to the old path of your previous life? There's no need for me to make it better than yours. I heard that Mr. Chi was waiting for Queen Bai Ying to come back. I was tricked by a scheming woman. I was forced to get married three years ago. How can you be so shameless? Sorry Nuannuan I'm not feeling well Going back first I don't want to be that person without myself anymore Su Jiani, who lives in a state of disrepair Su Jiani It doesn't matter if you don't do well in the exam It doesn't matter if you can't get into Tsinghua University When you turn 18 I will definitely meet someone who is more suitable for me than you Is it right I will definitely meet you later Lend me your good words Chi Yue, I don't know how to do this question. Can you teach me Thank you I won't ask you these little questions anymore. Thank you for helping me with questions over the years. Chen Yi, I have made progress I've improved I will definitely be admitted to Tsinghua University to be with you I will definitely meet someone who is more suitable for me than you Is it right I will definitely meet the promotion in the future Wait a minute, brother Yu. Where are you going? Everyone is waiting for you. Hey, that clingy guy seems to have left. It just so happens that you and Ye Luo have reconciled. I have nothing to do with him. You are not Red Moon. If you want to date Bai Yueguang, just tell me earlier. We won't watch you show affection anymore. White Moonlight Could it be that Su Jiani was because of these unfounded things? I'm angry Nini I have something to tell you. Your mother and I are officially divorced. Congratulations on finally escaping the grave of marriage Rebirth Nini You go with your mother. Mom will take good care of you. Mom and Dad I am an adult There is no such thing as custody And I have already applied for the Chinese Medicine major at Soochow University What I will move to my grandpa's house in a few days. Adapt to Su Shi's life in advance Whatever you want to do, just do it. I won't care about you anymore. Don't bother me anymore. you How is it? Did you find out? Sujani No application to NTNU Went to Suzhou Medical University Grandfather I received the admission letter. Really, let me see. oops Xiaojia, you are awesome Later Grandpa has a successor. Hahaha Grandpa, I will never destroy your reputation. Learn Chinese medicine thoroughly Overcoming more difficult and complicated diseases Treat more patients Let's develop our clinic Hahaha good good What a good kid. Hahaha. In the previous life, in order to study in the same university as Chi Yu I had to give up applying for my favorite Chinese medicine. I will never fall in love again in this life He is hiding here leisurely Are you so happy to get rid of me? Xu Sanjun Why are you here? Stop here. Let me go out This is my grandpa's house. You are not welcome here Why did you apply to other universities without telling me? Why did you block me from WeChat? How did Shi Yu know that I blocked him? He never pays attention to what I say. This is my business It's none of your business It's none of my business That was Who swore to go to Qingdao with me? Who is it that pesters me to help him with his studies every day? That was at the beginning I don't want to now Because of Bai Yanluo What You suddenly changed your mind and didn't want to hug Qingda Is it because Bai Yanluo is back? Shi always likes this movie A strong woman like the White Shadow Queen? Do you like it? It's because others talked about me and Bai Yangluo That's why you applied to medical school. Stone Jade I haven't seen you care about my college entrance examination wishes before. Now everything is settled Why did you come to me? Actually, you don't care about me. Why don't you hug your dad? I'm not chasing you anymore? You're not used to it Do you have to talk like that? Do I still want to be sentimental? Because you like me Don't want to be separated from me Is that why you want me to hug Qingda with you? Chi Yun, I'm not so shameless Chi Yu I like you I like it very much Since the first time I saw you in class I just like it and can't help myself Where you go Wherever my eyes follow I know you are exceptional. I will also work hard to become excellent I want to be admitted to Tsinghua University with you. Can you give me a chance to be your girlfriend? Chi Yu, you're just used to it. I've been following behind you. But now I have my own ideals and goals I won't accompany you anymore. Su Jiani I knew it. Sujiani You don't live again to dwell on the past It's about starting a new life Dear Ms. Su Your custom gift of beloved diamond cufflinks Delivered to Mr. Chi Yu's home I have already signed for it Today is Chiyu's birthday This is the birthday gift I bought for Chiyu. How could I forget this? Thank you, Miss Su, for taking care of our brand's business I wish you peace and happiness I wish to always be with you Oh, help! I'm really going to die of my own stupidity. I really can't stand the love before rebirth Call the housekeeper now. Maybe we can intercept it. Hello Hello, Ms. Su This is the housekeeping We received your gift To apologize We have a gift for you. Oh, I don't want to return the gift. Can you return the gift I gave you? ? The sleeves and pants must be destroyed. Especially the gold foil confession card Ms. Su I'm really sorry. It's not very convenient to return the gift. This return gift is given to every guest who gives a gift. I am only responsible for sending return gifts It is probably the assistants who are responsible for receiving the gifts. With so many gifts, I guess you can't see mine. Oh well Great. Thank you, Miss Su. The gift will be delivered soon Please make sure to check it. Well done Give me this month's bonus Thank you Mr. Chi I wish you peace and happiness I wish to always be by your side Jiani Jiani Wait for me Someone just came downstairs Let me hand this to you What did you buy? The packaging looks expensive. I didn't buy it. Don't be crazy again. Sober up. Jiani, your bracelet seems to have words engraved on it. SJN Your initials? It seems that someone has a crush on you No This is probably the dignity of pond fish. A return gift for everyone Go back. I can't be so self-indulgent anymore Where did the person who delivered the things just now go? What's going on over there? I want to go back Hey baby I'm in the greenhouse. Let's get together at night good Ah Nuan Nuan, you scared me to death Why did you come to the dormitory? This is very subtle. I'll explain it to you later. Jiani, do you know that the official announcement of the shame jade Don't worry I won't give him the chance to get involved with Chi Yu. I don't want to know anything about him anymore. Let's not talk about this for now. Let's order the dishes first. Good surprises Jiani How did he come? Jenny, what a coincidence Are you waiting for Chi Yu here? How come I haven't seen the world before? Only then will you do such a thing oh Long time no see Is the study pressure too great recently? You feel more haggard. It is indeed a decent fashion Gifts must be given to everyone Fortunately, I didn't think much about it Wow handsome Why is Shi Yu here? Why can't I avoid the jade? What a coincidence Ayu, what are you doing? You've been neglecting me lately. I don't actively look for you You don't know how to contact me. Wow Handsome Guys and Beautiful Girls They are so sweet. Seeing this kind of love makes me feel that I am not worthy of it Isn't this Mr. Chi? I didn't expect you to come with our school beauty. Su Shi Ye Luo, we have something else to do. I won't bother you two anymore. Gone first I hope Bai Yingluo was not brought by you. I am here because Jiani liked you before. I helped you make an appointment with her. Don't have this kind of play No charge If you make her sad, I'll kill you. Where are you escaping to? I didn't escape Get out of the way Do not let explain Explain what Why are you hiding from me? Why don't you remove me from the blacklist? this We shouldn't have any intersection with each other. Flirt and run Kick it after use Now you want to continue to accompany your little sister still Let's find a place to enjoy our time together. Go find my little sister you Are you so unwilling to stay with your boyfriend? No, how come we are boyfriend and girlfriend? Aren't we boyfriend and girlfriend? no The birthday present you gave me Do you need me to explain it again? Diamond Cufflinks Named Beloved And the greeting card you sent me I wish you peace and happiness I wish to stay by your side forever If I say it was a misunderstanding, would you believe me? Misunderstand I customized this gift in April. I forgot about it later. In May, I discovered the gap between us There is no possibility between us so So can we just ignore it? As we gave that gift Don't even think about it. Chi Yue, why are you doing this? You don't like it at all You just got used to me chasing you. Haunt you I'm not used to it. I accepted your birthday present. I received the greeting card you sent. And I returned the favor. This means I agree to be your boyfriend. you Zhiyun, have you ever thought about this? Why were you indifferent to me before? Now that I'm gone, you're on top Because you don't like me at all Flirt and run Remove after use I didn't use You better not if What if I say yes? Do you want to look at your current situation? Do you say it? Let's make a final break today Okay, where do you want me to start? Why did you return the bracelet I gave you? Too expensive, not suitable Nothing inappropriate You will bring it to me every day from now on. Don't take it off Give me your phone Don't block me casually in the future Now you want to continue to accompany your little sister still Let's find a place to enjoy our time together. I'm going to find my sisters Have you ever thought about Why were you indifferent to me before? Now that I'm gone, you're on top Because you don't like me at all You just like me to please you I like you The feeling of holding you in my hands all the time I agree with your second half. I do like the feeling of you chasing me Why does this sound so lame? But I'm tired I can't give you this experience So you don't agree to me Because I'm tired of chasing after you. Um Now I'll chase you. Let you feel the feeling of being pursued by me Am I crazy or is Chi Yu crazy? What he is saying I will chase you Chase until you are satisfied I'm giving you my Hello, may I ask where is my friend? He said he was going to buy something Let you wait for him here Oh thank you fine I have the place tonight. Work hard I'll pay double. OK OK Just now your girlfriend said she couldn't find you So he left My girlfriend left Don't you like sitting here? ah Su Jiani, today is your birthday Come and learn quickly Su Jiani, learn quickly! Make a wish now. I hope we don't make the same mistake again. Su Jiani wants to find herself Happy birthday hahaha Happy birthday What's going on? Why can I see it in the eyes of the fish in the pond? Full of possessiveness How long do you plan to make me wait? Give me a deadline It's too late today God bless you, I'll take you back No need, Nuan Nuan is going to drive. Stop being stubborn This is not Good memory It seems you still remember This is the veil you gave me. Senior No thanks Can we go have dinner together after playing ball? I'm not free What are you doing This way other girls will think you have a girlfriend. I won't bother you anymore. Drink water Why do you want me to help you? I'll give you my clothes. Need not I don't want clothes But in return Can I have you on New Year's Eve? Strictly speaking, not yet. My confession was rejected just now. That doesn't make sense. Let him enjoy the feeling of being chased by me for a while. ah I just made a mistake This pair is sweeter What did you just tell them? Why are they looking at me so strangely? Maybe you have the same expression when you see a cute tree. Really greasy I'll be more refreshing next time. Why is there such a big difference between the past and present life? What's wrong? How did this catch his attention? Mr. Chi The birthday cake you ordered has been delivered happy birthday Today is my birthday I have an appointment Su Jiani, you don't want to spend New Year's Eve with me No, I made an appointment with Nuannuan. Don't wrongly accuse me. I didn't make an appointment with you. This is the appointment you told me about. From now on you have a date I'll pick you up on New Year's Eve Got it? Um knew Remember to return the rubber band to me next time we meet. ah mother Suzanne Don't look at me like that. Otherwise I can't help it Remember what I said tonight Brother Yu just crossed the New Year Your smile is too fake. That's better than you. I stayed in Su Shi for New Year's Eve Other arrangements We won't celebrate New Year's Eve together. Feel sorry Jiani, are you really not going to celebrate New Year's Eve with us? No, I really have plans. Let's meet again next time. ah Beauty, are you going to celebrate New Year's Eve with me tonight? Ah no no no Don't misunderstand me. I'm not a gangster I am Su Jiayin's high school classmate Um Then you guys talk first I'm leaving first When did you come to Sushi Brother Yu said you won't go back to Beijing for New Year's Eve He specially brought a few of us here Su Shi accompanies you through the New Year He has already arranged his schedule for tonight. Let's go What? You guys came together? Yes, my brother Yu and Lao Zhou are here. He has already arranged his schedule for tonight. Let's go I said I had something to do I've already rejected him. Ah, but Brother Yu said it has been arranged. I'm not going Go by yourselves. Why Debut Sijiani You will usher in a new life in the new year Hello Su Jiani What are you doing Who are you? Why should I tell you Su Jiani Look Back You will see food here. I must be blind. I couldn't Why are you here? You don't want to attend the party I had to come find you Do you know that you are a girl How dangerous is it to drink so much alcohol late at night? Who do you think you are? Why do you control me? You never cared about me before What's the matter with me now? sorry I was wrong. I promise I will accompany you well in the future. I won't make you sad anymore Okay? Believe me I don't understand what you are saying etc. I also prepared a gift for you You wait a little longer It's time What time is it? Happy New Year i wish i couldn't touch your day I wish What's wrong Don't like it? Su Jianing, stop hiding from me I know you like fun Like fireworks Like white I like snow and I also like shopping and eating with friends. How come Chi Yu seems to know me so well? But there is no snow in Su Shi either. I don't have that many friends. There is no Chi Yu Will you regret it? Why are you crying again? I'm so moved that I cry when I set off fireworks for you What's wrong I set off fireworks for you and you were so moved that you cried Have you ever thought about that? Your 321 days Breakfast and gifts every day Even a heart of stone will be moved. Isn't what I said clear enough? Stop crying I cried so hard that my heart melted If Su Jiani makes a decision next time Discuss with me first No matter what the problem Ask me in person OK Su Jiani There's no use hiding from me. I know You still have feelings for me Is it right I know what you are hesitating about. Today I solemnly tell you I will come closer to you You don't have to please me No more pressure Su Jiani the rain You took 99 steps towards me before Now go back 50 steps I will complete the remaining 51 steps. Remember to breathe through your nose next time It's you I only do this to you I'm going home Stay a little longer A while I'll take you back Just send it here You should go back soon It's daybreak Su Jiani Hug Can you accept this scale? Don't accept that you didn't say anything when I asked you just now Why do you want to hug me? I'll give it to you. Just give me a hug You've made your decision. Ask me what I do I do not accept Don't you still want to pack Can you stop hiding? You should go back quickly. We can't be together how I can't see anyone. I didn't come back all night. I'm afraid that grandpa will think too much And my grandpa has a bad temper Don't like meeting strangers I don't like being disturbed. You go back first I'll talk to you later OK sure Every night Okay, I'll call you every night. You should go back soon Let's go. Go back now. Walk Hahaha Grandfather Hey, the boy is coming. right Nini Nini, let me look through the pictures. Grandpa, let me help you. Good The young man is stronger. Come Thanks a lot Help me loosen the soil Grandpa is not hard-working I usually do this kind of flower wrapping soil Yes, yes, yes Grandfather I also grow some hydrangeas and daisies myself. Who calls who grandpa? That's my grandpa. wrong Ninomiya is not a person of low character Don't you like strangers? How did they start chatting with each other? What is going on? I'll open the door I brought the gift you asked for. Ah, my grandpa hates people giving him gifts the most. Then he will get the broom and go out quickly. Are you afraid that I will be kicked out? Are you afraid that I will be kicked out? I don't have Don't worry, I've heard it. This thing is not easy to handle. Right, grandpa? yes How will I be kicked out? Grandpa Tomorrow Professor Feng's project team is coming to our school for exchanges Well, I'll go back first. Really? Then you go back first. Grandfather Oh, snacks should also go with you. Right? What will our next game be when you come next time? Good grandpa If you don't mind I'll play chess with you as soon as I'm free. Okay, didn't you say you were in a hurry tomorrow? Let Xiaochi take you back. Don't forget to turn us off when you go out. What to do Hey hey hey Sorry I didn't hit you. I'm not sorry. Don't move, let me hold you for a while. Jiani I want to kiss you, will you? I don't need Um Then don't I have something else to do I'm going back first What are you doing? I really have something to do I'm going back Su Jianian I heard that people who betray their sincerity will be struck by thunder. I don't want to hear thunder. So when can I find it? God damn, thunderbolt strikes the area, so it's appropriate to commit crimes I am the sunny day Struck by lightning What's wrong I'm speechless because of my boyfriend's handsomeness Just wait for the thunder to strike you. Really I haven't seen such a lively expression on his face for a long time. I will let you marry me This side Jani A TV series is going to be filmed in our school. This is the heroine Bai Yanluo She's been here for two weeks. It's up to you to help her get familiar with Chinese medicine knowledge. Teacher, I have a lot of homework. Not necessarily free rest assured I will never disturb your study. No wonder A-Yu asked me to come to this class. It turns out you're here too. I won't be so embarrassed when you're here Shi Yu asked you to come yes He deliberately arranged this when he invested in this project. Okay then There is one more thing. Jiani went to the laboratory in the afternoon Come to the lab. Oh good The teacher asked me to go to the laboratory Professor Feng's Project Is it really going to hit me on the head? Su Jiani What's so happy? What's your business? Still angry? Don't be angry, look what I brought you I have an emergency now I don't want to play games with you here. If you have nothing to do Just accompany the people you need to accompany Who am I accompanying? What happened to him? Seniors and Juniors You are here Mayor Qi is applying for the imperial examination. You are the first among 65 people Welcome to join us Yeah Su Jiani, you are awesome After releasing peach blossoms, academic achievements will be greatly improved. The teacher gave a temporary notice today The investor will come back in the afternoon to inspect the results of the phase. You just came into the lab and started helping out. Let's sort out the information. OK Your project has not yet achieved any results. I'll wait and see whether to vote or not. Don't worry, Mr. Chi Our project has great development prospects. I'll ask the members to bring the test data over later. Show you Professor Feng is very polite. I believe you Look here What about our project? It is still in the mid-stage of experimentation. Specific project process Let my postdoctoral fellow Please give a brief introduction Li Yuanlai Professor Feng, this is The young man next to me is Mr. Chi. He and Mr. Liu They are all the bosses behind our projects. He will come to our lab from time to time in the future. To monitor our progress Mr. Chi, this is Su Jiani Also a person who has experienced Why not let him be the consulate's assistant? Let me introduce the project to you. No, it's not appropriate. Student Su Thank you for your help. The drugs we are currently developing Inhibits brain malignancies and inhibitory nerve fiber damage Has a more significant effect so This drug can also effectively treat these diseases Help me introduce What did he just say? You can look at the relevant information Drugs we are currently investigating To inhibit the side effects of the brain It is also helpful for the inhibition of neurofibromin Our experiment is going well. The experiment has been successfully carried out with mice as the subjects. This step What happened to the students? How many people want to be favored by Master Chi but don't have the luck to do so? You said so, right? Chi Shao Li Ge Chi Shao Please get him out of here and disappear for a while. Hey, Mr. Chi, Mr. Chi I'm watching you like it Let him disappear for a while. I don't want to see him this month. Today's matter is over I'll take you back. Mr. Chi, what do you mean? Our project team does not do this That kind of thing General Su is my girlfriend girlfriend I invested this time just for him. Just to prevent him from being like today Encountering such a dirty thing Really? It's not me. No, then no. I'm chasing you, okay? Professor Feng From now on, I will be your only investor. If the laboratory is short of money again Contact the assistant He will handle it Then I'm welcome. Thank you Mr. Chi I have only one request for you No special privileges for Sugani Don't put him in danger. I invested so much money I just want him to have a pure research environment. If you violate this Fashionable and reliable After this step of the experiment is completed We will advance Okay, okay. Stop talking about these nonsense. Your project is a bottomless pit. Since Chi Shao likes Then I will do you a favor and give it to Master Chi. good In this case Then let's sign the contract. Why don't I host? Please have a meal together This is not good Hey, Master Chi likes your little apprentice very much. Why not take him with you? This is an unspoken rule I've heard that there are some bad things about the research project. I didn't expect it to be true How can this be possible? You and Chi Shao are our investors Su Jiani just entered the laboratory How qualified? I have to deliver it in person to show our sincerity. What are you sending? You can send it to the bed Only little girls can Mr. Liu, you are joking. He is still a student What happened to the students? How many people want to be favored by Master Chi but don't have the luck to do so? You said so, right? Someone offended Miss Su Young Master Chi had someone teach him a lesson. Look at this hero saving the beauty That Miss Su should be quite capable. During this period, Ayu has been running to Su Shi I don't even go home. Miss Su is now focusing on her studies. The young master also thinks Miss Su is a good person. By the way, I'll help you thank you There is no need to avoid the important issues Ah Yu is not a helpful person at all. Tell me, how long have they been together? How can I say this? Not together yet After Miss Su decided to study medicine I never looked for the young master again. It was the young master who took the initiative to find him. Miss Su rejected the young master several times The young master has also been blocked several times It hasn't been released yet. Who does our Ayu want? I can't get him, but I dare to reject him Let me go meet Miss Su Su Jiani You brought me to this place. Do you intend to do something bad to me? What nonsense are you talking about? you What are you going to do? What do you say I want to do? The big boss of the capital side wants to settle the score later The big bosses of the capital side are going to settle the score later What is the later reckoning? Didn't we agree not to block anyone casually? You can blacklist the capital at will Aren't you afraid that investors will withdraw their investment? Why don't you pull it back? All right Do I cook now? alright That's weird. Don't touch my hair Okay, let's get down to business. Why are you angry today? I No wonder A-Yu asked me to come to this class. It turns out you're here too. I won't be so embarrassed when you're here Shi Yu asked you to come yes He deliberately arranged this when he invested in this project. You care Although some words are cliche But it still makes sense What Don't listen to what others say. It depends on what I did. Happy birthday As a punishment and i as long as you stay with me I have never been slapped in the face by anyone in my life. You were the one who acted like a hooligan first Then slap me a few more times. Hit me hard a few times. I'll just kiss you a few times, okay? How many times did you slap me? I'll just kiss you a few times, okay? Chi Yue, I never realized you were so shameless before. No way for my girlfriend Wake up We are not in a boyfriend-girlfriend relationship Isn't it yet? no Why what happened You are so scared to get close to me You obviously still like it Why don't you admit it? Be obedient Tell me why Last May, my dad saw you sending me home. He insisted that I go to curry favor with you I am very resistant Very resistant I suddenly realized the difference in our status Knowing you are unworthy You are lukewarm to me. I really don't want to make myself look bad and try to get close to you. Of course, there is also the failed marriage in the previous life. Do you really want me to peel off my self-esteem for you? I'm not lukewarm I was not good before. Coveting your admiration The gap in your original family is not your fault Don't care about these I can solve these problems. Su Jianing Do you believe me? If you don't say anything, I'll take it as your consent. Let's go. I'll take you back to the dormitory. Jiani, what happened to your mouth? I'm not lukewarm I was not good before. Coveting your admiration The gap in your original family is not your fault Don't care about these I can solve these problems. Su Jianing Do you believe me? Sorry Chi Yun I really don't want to make the same mistake again Hello, I'm looking for Miss Su. Isn't this Chi Yu's mother's personal assistant? Are you Miss Su? Well, our Madam Chi wants to see you. Do you think we can leave now? Um Madam, Miss Su has arrived. It's really pretty. I don't like beating around the bush. You may know me Maybe you don't know me. I am Chi Yu's mother Hello, Mrs. Chi I heard about you and my son. You know, your Su family and our Chi family The gap is not a little bit You should take care of your son. Instead of coming to me This wealthy lady It's too much to use money to hit people to reflect reality I can actually meet Give you 10 million Leaving Shiyu? Okay, I promise you. Do I need to sign a contract? No, I'll give you 10 million. Promise my son's pursuit Be his girlfriend ah I have no way to help you, son. I can't take this money. You hate my son? No no no I just don't want to fall in love I want to study medicine Become a doctor in the future Studying medicine I can buy a hospital. Transfer to your name As long as you agree to have a relationship with my son If you have any request, just ask. As long as you have a love affair with my son I can help you realize any wish. Miss Su, you need to know Our family business is a century-old foundation. You and Ayu have a love affair What you can get It may be the life of your Su family. It's impossible to earn Auntie, you may have misunderstood. I'm not trying to play hard to get. I just simply don't like him So I won't agree to your terms. Thank you for your hospitality, Auntie I still have classes I'll leave first. Ah Yu, you heard clearly what he said just now mom Why is this necessary? I just want you to recognize him. He even took a lot of effort to coax him You're so troubled I'm going to be blacklisted again. I'm going to use the suicide note from home to coax him again Good good good I don't care You'll fall into this woman's hands. Madam Su just left the restaurant The young master caught up with him. I realized it today. What does it mean that a son is no longer under the control of his mother? General Su Chi Yun Let me go Don't let go It hurts you Mom seems to have twisted it How to get stone jade No light or heavy I'll take you back don't want Mrs. Shi just came to see me You should know this. I know You know my answer. Know Know You won't agree to let the driver take you back You are a little angry now. I won't make you angry anymore. I'll take care of the housework. rest assured I won't let you suffer any injustice Nini Chiyu This kid likes your grandpa. It can be seen He doesn't like me oops He helped you with your homework in high school. Improve your grades Going to college He drove thousands of miles to pick you up. On the first visit, I brought out something that appealed to him. If you don't like Who would be willing to pay so much? Haha Nini, don't trap yourself in this world You Deserve the Best Come and open it What is this? Your mother brought the things you left in Jingshi. Grandpa From those papers in high school See your love for him What high school exam paper? Finished those words Oh my god, can you please not talk about your past? I can see that too. His love for you If you don't like How can you have the patience to yell like that? Clearly moved. If you still don't believe it Then you can look it up yourself. Hahahaha oops How to answer this question Su Jiani Su Jiani's auxiliary line is made here Su Jiani, did you remember what I wrote? Su Jiani, did you miss this question last time? Chi Yu you bastard What happened to me? Why are you here? I'll take you to the lab. Shi Yu already liked me So in his opinion, we are in love with each other I chase her and she enjoys being chased by me I won't chase you anymore She coaxed me back. In her eyes, these are all little pleasures between lovers. What happened? Who caused it? asshole Talk to me No Comments It's okay, you can go back first I'm busy Oh, don't Something Your boyfriend wants to see you more. Don't let him see inside Flowing the heart your soul Don't call me that. Why are you so good today? Is it the end? I was moved by my boyfriend No, I haven't. It seems that it is useful to cater to the needs of others. Do you like those medical books? I still prefer the reading plan I wrote for you And knowledge point analysis I even wrote about the collection Reading plan and knowledge point analysis of a book I don't know how I don't know how much effort it took to do this. Or if there is anything you are not clear about I'll help you sort it out. No, I like these medical skills. Are you afraid of tiring me out? I don't October Um Since when did you start liking me Once upon a time Su Jiani I like you Can you be my girlfriend? It's okay I said No matter how long it takes, I will stick with it I have enough patience for you real But I have one condition. You open your mouth later But I have a condition You open your mouth later Slap I need your appreciation I'm stupid You need to tell me clearly Let me know your love Otherwise I will be frustrated and retreat We will miss Good girlfriend That Can I hold you? Can This embrace is still so warm yes Maybe this is my destiny. Cough cough cough Grandfather Grandpa, I'm here to pick up Jiani to go to the laboratory Young Know how to exercise restraint I know, Grandpa. It's all your fault It's all my fault In this case Give me a chance to apologize, please What You wait and I'll know Isn't this the neighborhood near my grandpa's house? How do you have this house? Since you have decided to work and live here in the future I can't have a suite here. ah you Director Li Welcome Home Don't talk nonsense I didn't say anything nonsense. All the decoration here I asked the designer to Dress it up in the style you like How do you know what style I like? Just say you Like it or not like Just like it How come you are so sure I will come here? I told you that you are the mistress of this house You know how to say these words to coax me You treated Bai Yingluo like this before, right? White Yingluo Why did you suddenly mention him? Bai Yingluo was sent by the Chi family Just to drive away the other women around me ah You are the only one who can always be by my side So don't believe anything he says. Do you know Mother Okay, I'll believe you this time. If you have a relationship with another woman I can change my boyfriend. hehe Su Jiani I'm kidding. Don't make such jokes. Okay, I won't talk about changing boyfriends anymore. ah you What are you doing? I want you Cook for me I'm hungry Then I'll order you a takeaway. I don't want takeout I want to eat the food you cook. I don't know how to It doesn't matter I like everything you cook. How come you are so nice to me? You hold me like this and I can't move It doesn't taste good. As long as you do All delicious I want to make breakfast for you myself No need The Lord's cooking is better than yours. How does the baby know I only eat scallions. I have carefully observed Did I observe wrongly? oh That's right I'll get the chair. Why does this taste so familiar? It seems like the old cook in Jing's family The taste is exactly the same What's wrong? Is it not delicious? Uh no Just the noodles you made The taste is exactly the same as that made by the old chef of Chi family Isn't it normal for the noodles to taste the same? But he has a recipe. I want to make breakfast for you myself No need, just in case it tastes better than yours eat It's okay. If you don't want to talk about it, then don't talk about it. It's okay. I won't ask. I won't bother you to cook for me anymore. Cooking is so hard. Skin damage I'll be very satisfied if you can do this for me once. It turns out that in my previous life, I was not allowed to enter the kitchen because I felt sorry for me. I don't dislike me. Grandfather Hey, hey, hey, did Chi Yu call you up? I'll take the knife. You... you returned to Beijing early this morning. Not with you? I have no idea Hello Time Miss Su's father found the master and the lady Miss Su is here too. good Second Master, I will go and bring Jiani back now ah Slow down. Say it again Madam Chi, this is only one hundred million. You don't need this expression. Young Master Chi has deep feelings for our Ni. Sooner or later, I'll marry her. I am a father. It's not too much to ask for a betrothal gift in advance. It's funny that your Su family is really good at planning. How dare you come here to deal with something that is not even a clue? Lion's Mouth Even if there is no such thing My daughter is Chi Shao's girlfriend Then it's only natural to ask for some pocket money. Dad, shut up. Dad, what are you doing? Aren't you ashamed? Let me go Mrs. Chi Look at our Jiani, she is not bad in appearance and education. It is true that we do not have Chi family's medicine. But Chi Shao likes it Not Dad I am your daughter Are you going to sell my grain by the pound? My wife is not only beautiful but also virtuous. Specially for the young master to wash his hands and make soup No wonder my young master graduated I will marry you. This is called like father, like daughter. Their whole family lay on Xiaochi and sucked his blood If he didn't have this means How can our Ayu be willing to pay for him? Did you see it? This small family is very cunning. The Su family is really good at planning. One daughter alone cost 100 million He really knows how to get something for nothing. Hello Jiani, Save Dad Save Su Qiang Only one billion Go and ask Chi Shao Please help dad. Why does he help you? Doesn't Chi Shao like you? Since he likes you so much If he wants to marry you, then give him 100 million Shut up, liar Just give up on this idea. Because of a dad like you I won't marry him. Today is the day The day our family went bankrupt Isn't it different from the previous life? Why is it still like this? Dad, I'm your daughter. Are you going to sell me by the pound? A red-faced A good-looking guy Have you had enough of the trouble? Let's not talk about your Su family, a small family. She is not worthy of our Chi Yu at all What are you? You dare to negotiate with me? Madam Chi, we are simple and hard to describe There are many good girls in the world There are countless people who are better than your daughter. Let's not talk about how much wealth your Su family has. You and your spouse have been playing your own games for many years. This time, your lover is plotting against you. The company was on the verge of bankruptcy Do you think we, the Che family, are all fools? Rushing to give you money Don't worry, Madam Shi The Su family will not take a penny from you to run the household Su Jia Ni dad You still want to linger here, right? Then I'll just go out and marry someone. I'll see what you do. dad Well, since the housekeeper doesn't give money Then you go get married. Didn't you say you'd just marry someone? Then go get married My Su Family's Chess Business You will never be defeated by me. Follow me. Susu, what are you doing? Jiangyin Stop hitting me. Shi Shao Just now I was impulsive just now Uh, Chi Shao, uh Jane is my only daughter. I can't stop loving her. You two have such a good relationship. I am also pleased. What do you want to say? Chi Shao, if you want to marry Jiani Just give me 100 million. The Su family really plans One daughter alone cost 100 million Yes, he is really good at getting something for nothing. In exchange for a lifetime of prosperity and wealth Who said I want to get married? I want to die alone Don't talk nonsense you Yes you are You embezzled public funds to please your lover. What does it have to do with me? Why should I pay for you? Do you treat me as your daughter? Or a clearly priced product? Su Jiani, you are really I don't have a father like you who sells his daughter for fame. Are you leaving? If you don't leave I will tell you tomorrow what happened today. Spread it all See how you behave in Beijing in the future It's my bad luck Hand over a white-eyed wolf like you Okay, from now on, just treat me as if I don't have a daughter like you. Baby, don't be sad I'm not sad I just You don't have to worry about such things If you are really annoyed You can hand it over to me directly. Baby, he will never bother you again How do you want to handle it? The Su family just wants to survive If you help me this time, there will be a next time. This time 1.1 billion Next time, 10 billion Why do you clean up the Su family's ass? It's not a big deal The Su family can't make any progress I don't want to eat fish This is my dad's business. He will sort it out himself. Whether declaring bankruptcy Or find someone else to invest? It's all his business You don't need to help him. good All up to you Are you tired? How about I take you back to my apartment and rest for a while? All right No I have somewhere to go Baby Really no need I'm tired My company has a press conference tomorrow I'll go with you when I'm done. Su's affairs Ah Yu, are you really going to help the Su family solve this problem? Whether it is to solve you or to constrain I won't let them come to him again. If you want to fall in love, I won't stop you. But can you wake up a little? Is this Su family a good family? You spent money and effort to help him solve the Su family's problems. He is pure But you What benefits can you get from Su Jiani? What can the Su family give you? mom I don't need anything from the Su family I just want you to be happy, Su family. He is happy these years. I am really enlightened. I didn't expect my son was still in love. Ah Yu The Su family got rich halfway Weak roots Can't give you any attention Su Jiani's parents cheated on their spouse Each has a lover His father just wanted to make his lover happy this time I included myself in it His mother is still out there hooking up with young guys There is such a pair of parents What's the use of Su Jiani being so outstanding? You don't care Aren't you afraid that he won't be able to get a foothold in the household? Have you ever been stabbed in the back by someone? If he can't stand I will help him gain a foothold in the family business. Thank you for coming to accompany me Oh yeah Why did you suddenly return to Beijing? I thought it was the yeast from your recent lab. And why don't you go find Chi Yue? I have something urgent to do. oh What happened to you recently? Why do you feel that you are not in a good condition? It's ok. My dad is sick. The company's business is all on me. I've been working non-stop for several days. That's why my uncle is sick. Why don't you say it? Do you want me to accompany you? It's okay, my mom will take care of it. We worked hard. You should have told me Our Nini is still good Just focus on research and study. I just now discovered how good it is to be a student The social animals are really miserable It's okay, you're just running between school and company for a short time Wait until uncle recovers You can go back to school peacefully. Ni Ni I'm on leave. My father's condition is unknown. I can't take care of both company and study So I have to wait until next year to go back to school. What is this It's okay, Nini, don't worry about me And think about it I can become a vice president even though I am a college student Very cool, okay? how so Previous life Nuan Nuan missed the college entrance examination due to a sudden hand tremor I have let my grandfather cure him in this life. I also successfully passed the university entrance examination Why did he delay graduation? I clearly Can I change the course of my past life? But it can't change the ending? Hey Mr. Chi Your depression is getting worse I suggest you receive proper treatment from our hospital. Since you married Su Jiani Everything about housekeeping has nothing to do with you. Why can't I understand? Am I not a medical student? Am I not a doctor? Why can't I understand? It's all my fault Why Zhiyuan What's wrong Dreaming right Then I'll get you a glass of water. In the previous life, Chi Yu gave the Su family a betrothal gift of 100 million I have never talked about marriage with Chi Yu in my life My dad actually went to Chi Yu to ask for 100 million Nuan Nuan clearly doesn't need to repeat a year of high school But in the end you still need to graduate a year later than me Obviously many things are different But why did we finally go back? Is my dream a warning? Can't I change the future? Even if I insist on myself and give each other trust But this life He may lose his bottom line for me. Allow others to bully No I can't allow this to happen. I heard that Mr. Chi Your investment in this depression drug It's a gamble Your family initially disapproved of this line of business. From a purely commercial perspective It's a gamble indeed. But if this drug is developed Can benefit millions of people My investment is not worth mentioning. This is the best deal for me. He is still the same Standing in the center of the crowd will shine Don't say it. Your Chi Yu is quite courageous. It's a bit hard to face so many people at such a young age Not stage fright Even if I have money Will make money Just make money Three views are still excellent He has always been excellent Let me tell you You are better Let's see if you can make Chi Yu obedient. Chi Yu has always been a favored child of heaven He did it for me again and again Is this really good for him? If I'm with him There is no good result after all Next, my company's partners Introduce the company's future development and plans to everyone Dear journalists, Next Steps Let me tell you about our company's future plans With the development of AI and intelligent technology People's thinking has improved greatly So our company will continue to invest 2 billion In terms of AI and intelligence Baby I miss you a little Okay, let's get back to work. We can't let Chi Yu lose face. Um Okay Hello Baby, can you eat with me today? Aren't you at the press conference? Don't call me. Others will think you are not doing your job properly. That's a recording. How come you are here? I said I'll come to accompany you after I'm done I still have homework to do. my girlfriend While studying hard Can you give me some more time? Just today's duty, okay? I can't hide from him forever. Let's make a break. It's a decent ending for us. In the previous life, today was later than the day you proposed to me Could it be Baby I love you Can we get married right after we graduate? Zhiyun I can't promise you I can't marry you Zhiyu Let's break up I was too anxious. sorry I just love you too much I want to make you a promise Feel sorry I can't I don't know Give me a reason Our Ending There will be no good results What does it mean that there is no good outcome? How can it be cut off when something hasn't happened yet? You don't believe in yourself Still don't believe me Zhiyuan I am born again From the day you took away the test paper and distanced yourself from me How do you know? There's a trace of everything. Mock exams before the college entrance exam I haven't taught you the question yet. You will all And the bowl of noodles you made Just like the one made by the old chef You know I'm just a white onion What happened in the past life? You have no confidence in our relationship. The previous life was the same as before I was reborn I've been haunting you I entered Tsinghua University with you. Graduation Day I took advantage of the opportunity Then we got married Two years after marriage You've been ignoring me To be precise My family and even my servants look down on me. Then I got depression Bai Yingluo returns to China Everyone says she is your white moonlight I was the one who broke you two up viciously. I was emotional Something unexpected happened Jiani sorry All that you said Maybe it was me who led it. What Take the drunkenness after graduation. You studied medicine Should know If you don't want to How can we have a relationship? Two years after the marriage Why are you ignoring me? Never stay overnight Maybe it's because of me I just took over the household Go out early and come back late every day I'm afraid of disturbing your rest I'm so clingy to you How could I be a monk for the past two years? But you have been in the company Don't let me see you That's because the household is too big. People need to be complicated They always say some gossip I don't want them to influence you. I don't know any of this But this is different You know I love you I will protect you well too So stop thinking about other things, okay? But the tragedy has already begun I thought about changing some things. But I found Even though the process is different It still ends the same So We'll end up with the same ending. Won't meeting The thing is that you chose this style The same goes for proposing. Jiani It's just a coincidence You can't use your past life to deny the present Baby, believe me We will definitely grow old together in this life We will never make the same mistake again. I will give you a completely different future Hey, mom, what's up? What's wrong? I'm afraid I won't make this call. Are you going to get married with that Su Jiani behind my back? Mom, stop worrying about it. I'm not yet of legal marriage age. I heard you proposed to him. You haven't even graduated from college. Busy proposing It seems that Su Jiani is quite capable. Mom, don't say that to him. He agreed No He has some self-awareness. Hey Ayu You are in such a hurry to propose Could it be that Su Jiani is pregnant? No Calculate You still have some sense You are still young now. There's no rush to get married Then there is no need to rush to have children. Hey, did you hear that? Okay, mom. I know, hang up. To make her feel safe Getting married isn't that easy. Happy Graduation! Ha ha Happy Graduation! Stop crying Thank you for the blessing So do you think our future has changed? Not sure yet I still can't say that. certainly Wait a minute You know As long as you say it I will definitely agree So for our future Okay, okay, it's not a big deal. All up to you That as compensation I said no. Girl The goal of career growth is not just money and status These housekeepers can give you You agree to marry first How much do you want as a dowry? We give Auntie, I have no plans to get married for the time being. What I am now focusing on my career The matter of marriage It's not in my life plan yet. Ayu proposed to you a few years ago. You haven't agreed yet. We just agreed to focus on our careers. But there is no conflict between career and marriage. And after you and Ayu got married All the projects in your lab are not short of investment. No need to worry about funding anymore. All of Nini's future experimental research Don't worry about funding issues mom Senior Didn't you go abroad? Your mother and I came to see you. You and my mom you This is the money your mother has saved for you over the years. You also want me to give you a meeting gift What My mother used to be willful I didn't give you a happy family. And because of the divorce with your father. I've caused you trouble Mom, nothing. Your father has no shame Mommy can't let you be alone in the future. Isn't it? This money is my graduation gift to Nini. Even if my mother is not as good at managing the household Nor would it cause his daughter to Even when doing experiments, you have to look at other people's faces. mom You've all graduated. What are your plans? Do you have a job? The project in Auntie's lab is about to be finished. I want to confirm the work after the project is finished. The hospital has some plans. What about other aspects? Um This young man There are things to do at each stage. Now you have graduated. When will we put marriage on the agenda? Mom, we're not in a hurry. What's the hurry? You all graduated It's time to get married We just graduated Still young Some things have to be done step by step. Stop using my words to stop me. You didn't have a firm foothold in the household at the beginning. Jiani's family has A few years have passed Now you have the final say in running the household No one is objecting What you guys did together This is what needs to be done. Get engaged first and then get a certificate marry One step at a time Which step is missing? They are all for the sake of managing the household. That's not what I meant. Auntie, you misunderstood. I already established Kinney The assets were transferred to Ghani He has money, so he can do whatever research he wants. You should rest assured. Ikeno's love-brainedness is still as strong as ever. No matter what you give him It has nothing to do with me This money is the confidence I give to my daughter With this He does whatever he wants. Girl Look, Chi Yu gave you all the crystal mud. These years She worked so hard for the future of both of you. How can you bear to let her keep waiting? Mom, you are blackmailing me It wasn't Jiani who asked me to wait. I have no plans to get married or have children yet. Besides Whether we are married or not We'll be together forever Name is not important Um It doesn't matter if you don't have children Anyway, there are still so many future lives to manage the family. Girl, don't listen to his nonsense. This woman is old. Having a baby is dangerous You want a child first After the baby is born, let the aunt take care of it. It won't affect your career. Mom, didn't you say Can't the heir to the household have children out of wedlock? Shut up, Mrs. Chi. Listen to my advice If they don't cooperate Even if you follow them every day There's no use talking about it I think we should just let them take their own course. Auntie, Chi Yu and I have made a decision It won't change randomly. Well, you are a family. I can't persuade you guys to stick together. Your mother is not like this Don't worry My mother has this temper Although she said so But we still respect our own ideas. Chi Yu and we are protecting him Just rest assured Stone Rhythm What's going on Please help me ask ah This is your mother How dare I ask Well Senior Are you and my mom dating now? It's so obvious, can't you see? Then you before Leaving the lab to study abroad Is it for my mom? Well, you can say that It's actually true They say you traveled thousands of miles to chase your wife I thought it was a joke Nini, didn't you say Does everyone have the right to pursue happiness? Then I won't call you dad anymore. No need down down the car Professor Feng's current experimental results There are basically no problems anymore. Submit to relevant departments for approval after a period of time After passing, it will be published and announced If there is a good partner You can take this opportunity to get to know the cooperation You will have better development I know the professor and I have predicted this. I'll take this opportunity No no Don't worry, I will always be with Jiani. Help her to select Mom, Chi Yu is by my side Just rest assured I won't mess with you. You guys just talk about love peacefully I will not let you and the senior down. Classmates Related experimental research on depression this semester It was initiated by your senior Su Jiani Now, please let her give you a detailed introduction. Dear juniors, Hello everyone I am Su Jiani from Professor Feng's experimental project team. I am happy to share with you Our current project What is our current project? It's about depression Why are you crying? Jiani is excellent. You can rest assured now. My you have a lover There is a bright future Professor Feng will also publish papers on relevant websites We will continue to dig deeper into depression Please continue to pay attention Thank you for listening I am very happy to share this project with you. I hope it will inspire you Helpful What's next? Professor Feng will also publish papers on relevant websites We will continue to dig deeper into depression I hope everyone will continue to pay attention Thank you all that she pulled up on Baby Congratulations on starting a new journey Thank you for always being with me Give me a new life There is a reaction The instrument responded The patient shed tears for the first time Wake-up stimulation is effective Take action immediately Is my daughter going to wake up? Nini Nini wake up I am a mother Don't worry, Nini Janey will be fine. Make room for doctors There's a reaction, right? Where's Ayu? Is Ayu awake? Ayu Ayu Doctor Ayu When will my son wake up? We are currently debugging the equipment Can't give you a clear answer In order not to hinder the patient's treatment Please both of you go out first Ayu But you must succeed. You must wake up Jenny, wake up, wake up Tenth Master I am here Tenth Master Open your eyes and look at me General Finally woke up Finally woke up October Where is this Aren't we having a party to celebrate the success of the project? How did you get here? no This is not right Am I reborn again? Slower Honey, we are finally back. What does it mean? Thanks. Thanks. You can do whatever you want in the future. As long as you are well Jianni, you woke up Teacher Why do you look a bit old? This is all thanks to you Hey, after you had a car accident Many cases of depression have been uncovered Doctors diagnose that if he cannot wake up within two months You will become a vegetable forever. Your mother is so anxious that she loses sleep every night I had no choice but to urge the project team to hurry up. Trying to wake you up It's ok now You are awake Have a good rest ah Car accident depression It seems to me that I have been taking medicine for treatment. There was indeed a car accident Wife I'm sorry It's all my fault I beg you to forgive me Thank you for the invitation I am very happy After all, we can get familiar with each other Friends who appreciate each other work together My new play The contrast between the character and myself is also very big. And we not only learn from the art of painting He doesn't know the scene I've flirted with you 15 times. Hey where are you Hello, is this Chi Yu? Who are you Don't worry. Please tell me who you are first. I am her husband Let her answer the phone Your wife was hit by a truck while crossing the road. The situation is very critical now. On the way to the hospital Could you come over now? Which hospital Beijing City Hospital The third daughter Su Jiang Nurse Nurse, is this Ms. Su's husband? yes Please sign the notice. How is my wife now? The doctor is trying his best to save her. This is her personal belongings, please take it The director turned on the surveillance See what's going on yes He could obviously avoid it. He was caught on purpose. Go sooner or later I want to be quiet young kid walk not a man to walk General Don't you want me anymore? Why not more likely What happened? The inspection reports are out. Gani's accidental injury is controllable Internal injury micro-theoretical calcium deficiency The abilities of all four limbs will return to normal after treatment. No obvious brain injury But he is temporarily in a vegetative state Can you wake up? When will you wake up? Unpredictable Why Did Chi Zongjiani have a history of depression before her death? If you have taken any medication She didn't But Mr. Chi The report showed that there was atrophy in the brain. DTI imaging shows central nervous system fiber damage Many brain abnormalities are not caused by car accidents It is suspected that the patient was severely depressed before the car accident Severe depression He smiles at me every day How can laughter be moderately depressive? People who love to laugh can also suffer from depression Besides, the development of depression is a long process. His condition is obviously not a sudden onset of moderate depression. Not suddenly volunteer mom If you have any problems I'm not done with you Mom, I'm sorry. Who is your mother? I want an explanation now. What kind of tiger and wolf country is your Chi family? How did you treat him? That's why he's such a cheerful person. Become many depression I have no idea He has always been very good. You guys should get divorced. I want to take Nini back to Su's mom Jenny is my wife wife You don't even know how Jiani got sick. What qualifications do you have to be her husband? Start Mother mom Give me another chance. I want to wake you up Make up for my mistakes Chi Yu Now I know regret. What did you do before? This is Jiani's case. You already knew it If I had known he would take this step I won't help him hide his depression. Chiyu If you want to check, just start from the housekeeping department and check from you Jiani's condition has stabilized. When the time comes, wait for Professor Feng to deliver the equipment. Combined with Jiani's grandfather's Chinese medicine acupuncture Create a brand new dream for Jiani Untie her knot There's a chance to wake her up. I see Um Wife I know everything The suffering you endured for me in Chijia Village I'm so heartbroken I'm dying I should be damned I didn't realize they treated you like that. That day I Wrong words It's not that I don't like the breakfast you make. I just thought you looked bad. Need a good rest Why don't you sleep more? I want to make breakfast for you myself There's no need to blame me for not being able to speak properly I didn't explain the ungrateful wolf well. Wife I will Just eat the food you cook, okay? I beg you to wake up. I know now You have suffered so much injustice around me Wake up, please Beat those who bully you We won't hold back. OK Mr. Chi has arranged everything. Wife, look Those who bullied you come to apologize to you how Is it hard to say sorry? I still think that I, the person in charge of the household, Not enough words ah Jenny, it's my fault. I shouldn't call you a vixen. I shouldn't say you have no shame Sorry, sorry. I'm really sorry cousin You shouldn't have fabricated that Xiaoyu had a childhood sweetheart to provoke you. I shouldn't treat you like a servant. I ask you to do this and that every day. Sorry ma'am I shouldn't have said you were a vase I'm sorry I shouldn't have been so arrogant to my wife. You better pray that Jiani wakes up soon. Otherwise I will make you pay the price one by one. Go fast Wife You must wake up I will beat you and scold you in the future It's up to you JIANNI Jiangni, are you awake? Jang Ni Jang Ni The equipment has arrived Doctor, you must save Jiani Um You lie down on the bed with Jiani. We will start treatment immediately you How can you be so stupid? This is too risky. Don't take risks As long as you get up Don't leave me again, okay? The car accident that day might be caused by depression leading to brain disease I didn't take any medicine At that moment, I was so desperate that I had no control So don't keep saying sorry. You didn't feel sorry for me I know I will take you for regular checkups. We'll be fine later. Whatever you want to do, I'll accompany you. Why are you so nice to me? Because I love you ah Since no one relies on masks You are such a disgrace How come I can't even recognize my husband? You suddenly turned from a big ice cube into a warm man Can't make me doubt it. You won't carry me. Are you secretly dating someone else? yes That person's name is Su Jiani I'm in a dream I had an unforgettable love affair with him Slippery tongue I've done so many wrong things before. If nothing has changed How to be with you Okay, it's all over. Don't mention the past anymore. Wife Thank you Thank you for coming back to me I love you I love you too