Today, I want to talk about extensive reading, because I think reading your language skills, regardless I'm going to refer you to a Cambridge University, And also Before getting into the subject, it's curious doing research for this video, worldwide in 2023 was over 60 billion U. S. dollars, and it's projected to reach So it's an enormous market. Apparently, two thirds of that given that it's not expensive to There's an, a limitless amount of can read, that we can access, that It is amazing that so much money is on things, for example, like LingQ. Reading is powerful, but maybe people think they can do it on their own, or to guide them or a system to guide them, by a motivated learner But there are issues and problems, First of all, if you refer to the link reading or free voluntary reading is. It's basically just reading, but interest, that's not too difficult, a good speed, reading silently. I would add, although they don't idea to also have the audio for Now, you'll see in this link that the obvious benefits to extensive reading. Should be obvious, but may not be And that is that reading improves It improves our vocabulary. We encounter words. We encounter words in We get to see how they We get a better sense of grammar. It's a massive exposure to the language. It's easy to do. You do it on your own. When I was learning Chinese in my major activity was reading. And I would scour the bookstores of Hong behind each chapter, which I would review There wasn't so much audio Reading is powerful. I also consider that, especially that you're reading, it upsets you. Almost like speaking because when you language, you are sub vocalizing. So therefore it helps you to It helps you with your comprehension, All of these things are greatly, Now the Cambridge study refers To free voluntary reading or extensive to refer to the resistance from teachers off on their own ahead of what the teacher know student will spend his or her time doing the other things the activities words The teacher is reluctant to give up to free voluntary reading, although it reading has all of these benefits. So the resistance on the part of some but I don't see that as the main obstacle. To me, the biggest problem or the free voluntary reading is vocabulary. Some of the proponents of free voluntary free voluntary reading should be based unknown words or a couple of percent experience and that the student should meaning of words that they don't know. To me, that's wrong. Actually, I shouldn't say it's wrong, when it comes to free voluntary and where you are in the language. Obviously, if you're a school child improve your vocabulary and to develop voluntary reading with a very small Again, I would avoid the sort of. Teaching reading strategies, inferring the words they don't understand go by. They'll eventually figure So that's free voluntary reading it for people in school, probably a listening to the teacher in many cases. However, when we as adults, and I include a foreign university where they're language, adults wanting to learn a We don't have. 12 years to gradually, slowly We need to increase our And therefore the strategy We can't be dealing with When we start in the language, or depending on how different the So typically my strategy is I go to other easy content, lots of repetition. So we are able to knock off the 500, We all know that. Frequency declines very quickly. And now we have to deal with chasing important and yet don't appear that often. So then in my experience, we need to deal Either we say using LingQ, we look these words by seeing them often You can have free voluntary reading with a I never bother inferring or guessing. I, it just flows by me. But there is some benefit in free voluntary reading format. However, it's frustrating if you And that's essentially. What's at the origin of link typically it might have 30 percent unknown words. And I admit that's difficult. And we track these statistics at link. And of course, initially you may doesn't yet know that, So that might If I were to go into Dutch, for percentage of words that I don't know. And in fact, in the case of Dutch, I But in Turkish, that's not the case. Very difficult for me to infer the connected to words that I already know. So in terms of the percentage 15%, 15 to 20 percent is an acceptable And so I develop a strategy which material that's five minutes long. I want maybe 15 to 20 I want that to be about 20 2025 words that I've never seen before. And that is my strategy and It's a sweet spot in terms of increasing reach the stage where I can read a paper so that I won't be guessing at every time, it won't be, only three, four words then I'm not increasing my vocabulary. Make no mistake. We need a lot of vocabulary. Even low frequency vocabulary in So we have to invest that time in But while we are doing that, we are language again, the research has shown better, they have better grammar. They speak better. There's tremendous benefits to you have to be prepared for it. You have to build yourself If you try to do that from day one, One other strategy I have is limited content area for a while. So that if I'm doing history of Empire, I will stay with that. So the same vocabulary will repeat. I have found that typically There's a far broader range of words and of frequency of words in any language. You want to, have a strategy where you the same words or related words again. So to summarize, many people like video. I'm not a big fan. I like video. I like film, but for language There's a lot of dead time. Sometimes it's difficult to Whereas reading is pure words. And to that extent, So that if we're talking not just we improve our vocabulary, how do we reading and it's associated activity of And yes, you want to consume more and extensive, more and more free, voluntary. And above all, you don't. want to have too much Teachers love to have pre reading comprehension questions and instructing I always quote Ruben Alves who of reading as much as being asked I may not understand it perfectly, I'm happy with that. I don't want to be challenged. I just want to enjoy my reading. The essence of free voluntary reading is from the teacher and free to explore the gradually increasing your ability to take more and more interesting material, longer achieve your language learning goal. So with that, I wanted to leave you about free voluntary reading and lend One of Crouch's big As a relatively inexpensive and language skills in any language.