As someone who used to research quantum physics, cat is brought up in pop culture. That's because interpretation is that you may or may not is closed and you don't know what happened, And they say it's like if you got a letter from you, then until you open the letter you're accepted and rejected at the same of this letter is just about ignorance. of them really did happen and when you On the other hand, with Schrodinger's cat, there and that actually is a different circumstance, different was happening inside of the box actually going to do an experiment in this Schrodinger's cat really is dead and alive at the is that there is a radioactive atom that giving off some radiation, and then that radiation. And if it detects the Now, the whole point of this, is because this atom is a quantum system. quantum superposition. When a quantum system so like decayed and not decayed, then it This is a superposition of these two the same thing as saying that it but we don't know which, just like with superposition really different from just this Well, the maths of quantum mechanics really does state that's that or that, but we don't know we can do to prove that this is a different state for this whole Schrodinger's cat experiment So Schrodinger, even though he was one of came to loathe it. Same as Einstein, who was also incredibly important he came up with the idea of a quanta of energy, felt that quantum mechanics just couldn't be true between Schrodinger and Einstein the Schrodinger's Schrodinger was trying to point out that his argument was this. We have an instrument or not and if it is decayed will then kill a The cat is dead when the atom is decayed So because the atom is in a superposition of both Schrodinger was pointing out that if small things which people were sort of begrudgingly okay big things that feel actually real to us, That's the point of Schrodinger's cat. He absurd. And so we must reject the idea that of two things at the same time. But let's see an Alright, so our version of this experiment is atoms because, um, that would be absurdly Instead, there's a quantum system that's you can actually see with your eyes. use light to show that a superposition is different from just not knowing Well first, what are the states that this called horizontally polarized light. You can which means that all of the light that comes here's what I mean by that. I turn this on and way, and then I put it in front of the light. you can see it does nothing at all. And state that this filter will allow through. On you can see it pretty much cuts out all that none of the light gets cut out and That's because if I'd instead put the light through. And now if I twist this, it cuts this suggests is that there's two types this is horizontal, And there's the You might protest though that obviously this and this are not the only two options, what out one of those. So we'll put the light at 45 I'm going to do the same two measurements as Let's see, so this cuts out about half of that cuts out about the other half. The that when it comes to this measurement, type of light that's aligned with And then there's the type of light that's this. So in quantum mechanics we would say that vertical light. at the same time. But there is for this situation. Instead of believing, like light is truly both horizontal and vertical at the lots of light coming from this laser and half of That seems like it would explain our results filter this way, then it will block out direction. So it will take out this, this, and which is about half of it. And if we then it would block out all the So it'd block out this, this, this, and this, leaving only the stuff that's aligned this simpler explanation seems to explain quantum two things are happening at the same time we just have a lot of light coming out, and the other type, and you don't know which one That's a lot more similar to how right? This letter's gonna go out to many, will be an, uh, acceptance and, uh, half or more we don't know exactly what type we personally got. This explanation just doesn't seem to make with ignorance seems to make a lot more quantum mechanics insist on this one? The that you can do that will have quite To prove it to you, we're first going to consider up or to the side, and then we're going to both of them make different predictions. this 45 degree light really is half of the And let's consider both of those two cases I'm going to twist the light around. So now polarized and if we put our filter in horizontally which is also what we would expect. But here very different. Instead of horizontal or vertical, What do you expect to happen in that case? Well, what we find is that about 50 percent of the surprising but let's just note it down. vertical is that about 50 percent of it will Alright, now let's do the experiment when, instead. And And again, we're going to put this see that about half of the light gets cut out. it down. So what have we found? We found that all of the light is vertical, versus 50 percent So, if we have this 45 degree light, And of these types of light, then what do we expect logic would dictate that because it's either the light goes through is 50%. But you're about Now, for a second, let's think about how quantum the state truly is vertical and horizontal that is quite a different state than having when you just do a horizontal or a vertical these two scenarios, they don't need to be the And that is where we're going to see a difference this state, when measured at 45 degrees, And this result is called interference. So between the sort of this, this superposition And let's see which one is correct. So we're or essentially no drop in brightness. Let's see. That was really good. I hope you can change whatsoever to the brightness, which Superposition truly is different from where does that leave Schrodinger's cat? How can Well, in Schrodinger's cat, the not decayed at the same time. But Well, quantum mechanics answer is just, well, and so it will do both. But the question is, obvious seeming thing to do is to try and just really doing both, we might hope to catch it both But the light example shows us why that 45 degree light, which is supposed to be and you try and measure it with then you might hope to see the light. So if I had a single photon worth of energy, I time. But actually, that's not possible. If or vertical, it will collapse to just doing than if it had just been horizontal or The real interesting case comes when instead in the act of doing both at the same time, instead of trying to measure it in horizontal 45 degrees. And this is where I saw a different And in a similar way, it doesn't atom in both states at the same time or not decayed. That will just collapse you need to do a measurement of something Well, for a system like this atom, it's I don't know exactly what that measurement that you could have done to this atom this state. It importantly wouldn't give decayed or not decayed, and that's why In a similar way, the measurement that worked about whether it's horizontal or vertical. measurement, instead we did something that was important. It was by doing a measurement that about either of those two options, that we So that's what you would have had to do with the that would give you no information but would tell you whether it was in this state. Now there's one other thing I want to address annoys me. So the standard interpretation you measure a state like this and you get a this 45 degree light and I measured it in the It's no longer in this superposition state. with the horizontal direction. So it will when you open up the box, you collapse the and therefore the cat into dead or alive. collapse to decayed or not decayed, only at I think that's super arrogant. It who is also having a look at this, uh, atom has no bearing on whether a measurement that for some reason you don't count much should count the measurement device as So, let's say that this is the measuring then it will release some radiation, and machine that will then say the atom has so in the standard interpretation of quantum It's no longer in this state. and it is only decayed. So at this point, might protest that because this machine is not but that is just not true, and we can We're back again to the state that is both remember I said that if I was to do a measurement I have collapsed that state. So for example, that any light that goes through after this must So this is causing a collapse. But what decide whether to put a measurement what it had decided to do? So there would even see the light as it comes out. If my filter into here and I knew about it, then But given that it's random and I have in here still cause it to collapse, I can't do this experiment by myself because this but I absolutely could make one in theory like this where they don't know whether In the case where a completely mechanical machine is very simple, decides to put this filter in if you say it hasn't, because no then what happens is this And so if I was to then do a 45 I know what would happen. Nothing at all. On counts as a measurement regardless of whether what should happen is the light going this 45 degree measurement It does in fact make light is this and we know that about 50 percent If that measurement was there, I can tell you that I absolutely would see a this filter in here or not. whether or not So measurements are measurements, whether And it makes me laugh sometimes when people state unless a conscious being looks at it, like, have you ever talked to ever asked them how difficult it is to When I used to work in quantum computing, agonizing about. Any object that that you have painstakingly made would interaction between your quantum state and that it will collapse your state whether you like it And so that's why quantum systems have to see quantum effects. So yeah, truly, I of Schrodinger's cat is so off the mark. quantum mechanics like this, then you're I'll link to the playlist. And and you want to actually do problems then this is also a live course, and I'll the description. But before we wrap this a bit more maths because I want to show why So we saw that in quantum mechanics there superposition, but where does it come from? basically boils down to a minus sign. I'll show state, which is in a superposition of being Now, if you've watched the previous two videos, there should be a factor in front of both of down from what they would be. Now remember the and you do a 45 degree measurement the result and you did a 45 degree measurement or you had So why is that? To figure it out mathematically, and then we'll add them back together. If then we ought to rewrite these states in on square root two out the front and then we'll So remember this is the same as this. To jog your basis vectors, these pink ones, are 45 degrees and them. Remember we showed that to get this vector which makes sense because both of these this one is pointing a little bit to the Those two bits cancel out, like this one this one's pulling to the left, so that bit and so that is what reinforces. So that's plus a little bit of that vector equals Again I'll leave the one on square root what this vector is here. So it's going some amount of that vector. So now here's vector we're trying to construct from in the right kind of direction, but this one So, we need to negate this vector. Remember the And now we have two vectors that are one and the negative of that one. That's why a negative version of this vector. This is the Let's see how. Now we have these two it is clear that if I just looked at that and I then the probability of finding this 45 degree direction is going to be So in other words, if I have a state which is I should expect half of the light to go through. On the other hand, if I did a measurement to go through. Now here, it's a similar was horizontal and did a 45 degree measurement, This negative does nothing because to get coefficient. But then how is it that we have a probability of half of going 45 degrees somehow, when we add both of these probability of going 45 degrees is now 1, and It comes down to this minus sign cancelling out First, let's just multiply out these annoying. Since the square root of two times all of these are a half. And So, here's the really interesting one. These two this one is negative. So, I'm going to get rid of because they're both positive. And the result and so when you measure with a 45 That was probably quite obvious when you is how it shakes out mathematically in destructive interference and constructive terms constructive and destructive interference For example, I did a video about the double slit will destructively interfere, leaving behind a leaving behind light, which is what makes This interference here is mathematically very, very similar to the phenomena happening It all comes down to how in a superposition of the two options were going to the left or going light being in the vertical or horizontal going to be different whether you have both of And the reason is because there are like this term and this term, that cancel there are terms like this one and this happens in the double slit experiment with make that connection a little clearer by In the video I did a version of the experiment normal way to do the double slit experiment slits. Then the light that goes through hair version is pretty much the same, the But, because this is quantum mechanics, the right and left at the same time. Just let's look at both of these options we'll block one path at a time we see what happens when we measure just And notice that it ends up in all of these if we look at the left state, the see that some of the light does fall here. let the state be in a superposition of Well, let's see. We'll start with the light and now the light just cancels from this and destructive interference that causes look at the individual states of light again. This is what they each look like, because when you add both of them together at right? To understand what's going on, imagine coming from the left and from the right will have They constructively interfere, which means the negative troughs from both sides will also constructively interfere. On the other hand, peak from one wave hits you exactly when the The peak tries to pull you upward while the cancel. This is destructive interference. They signs, which is exactly what we saw in the map out all the spots where we get constructive The double slit pattern comes from the fact the light has cancelled out, and where it's reinforced itself. This interference how you can actually tell that a state It's no good to just go ahead these two things it's doing. Like if you just measured which slit the light or the other and you won't have any interference So in this case, it was to do the 45 degree it was to do the measurement at doing the measurement at the back wall, that that measurement gives you absolutely no And that's why you can see those so let's summarize what we learned. We truly is different to just having one of which. You can't tell though that there is On the other hand, you will get in some other basis because of the thanks for watching and I'll link to the rest