Now we want to talk a little bit about the to get bogged down and spend weeks and weeks ministry, but to basically look at what is instructive for us and effective and necessary Spirit of God. We have to assume a few things and one is that the Holy Spirit is God. In fact, in Hebrews 9:14 He is referred to And so that in itself affirms that He is God Genesis 1:2 tells us that He was the one who form to it. Therefore He is the Creator. Scripture also tells us that He is the divine written, holy men wrote as they were moved There are Trinitarian passages in the Scripture, the Spirit descending as a dove, you have have the Son present. And so God is not just one God who appears He is at all times three, Father, Son and We understand then that when we talk about the third person of the Trinity, fully God, of all that we render to Christ and all that We're going to leave that as the foundation, in fact as He is so designated in Scripture of God. But I want us to look based on that assumption How He works to accomplish the purposes of In eternity past when the Father and the Son the Father determining to create a world and a redeemed humanity as a love gift to His receive that gift and to be incarnate in this to purchase that gift, the price of redemption And so we think about that pledge between history in motion, but it's important to affirm of that and becomes the one who makes application It is the Spirit, for example, who comes upon father. It is the Spirit who fills the Lord Jesus the power of Jesus was to blaspheme the Holy It is the Spirit in the Father's will who It is the Spirit who comes down and establishes It is the Spirit who regenerates every believer. It is the Spirit who has given, as I said, about God and all we know about redemptive the product of the Holy Spirit. So we're talking when we talk about the Holy used to call Him. He is equal to God in every...to God the Father sense, and in no sense is He less than equal. And yet certainly He does not get equal consideration particular climate than it has been, at least I remember when I began to do ministry as at youth conventions and places like that, ministry of the Holy Spirit. Everywhere I went I was asked to speak on what it means to walk in the Spirit, what it means to be indwelt by the Spirit of God, what it means when the Bible says I'll bring Spirit, the Spirit of truth. This was a major emphasis. Many books were written about the Holy Spirit, I would say that it was probably the ministry in those early years of my ministry. There was a lot less being said about the some things that were sort of standard givens, of justification, substitution, imputation, today. And frankly not a lot was being said about of God. If you wanted to find a book like that, you and find Stephen Charnak's Existence and Attributes Tozer's little book began to gain public interest, I. Packer's very impactful book, Knowing God my ministry and people began to their focus And little by little the interest in the Holy Holy Spirit among evangelicals began to diminish the Charismatic Movement. As the Charismatics increasingly kidnaped aberrant theology, interest in the Holy Spirit didn't want to start a fight with the Charismatics. So there was a certain setting aside of the unity because if we are going to teach a biblical be an all-out attack on aberrant teaching rife in that movement. And so, little by little discussion, meaningful biblical presentations of the person and work After the Charismatic Movement had done its its own definitions, along came the Pragmatic And pragmatism basically said we can do the the ministry through human means. If we just figure out sound marketing strategy, If we figure out how to effectively present of their felt need, we can convince them by the gospel. If we can figure out the psychological keys tick, if we can define them psychologically contact really are, then we'll be able to And so as the church moved from the Charistmatic into the Pragmatic Movement, interest in the and diminish until here we are today and it the person of the Holy Spirit or the ministry On the one hand we're reluctant to teach the popular about the Holy Spirit. On the other hand, we aren't really sure that because we're so good at what we do in terms out people so well with our psychological to them and maybe the Holy Spirit's ministry In addition to that, we've got so many resources, seminars and opportunities for people to get and process that information and we have so teachers on radio, and television, and so there's certainly enough out there for people And we wouldn't say it but it makes the Holy Well something like that was going on in Galatian addressed it. Turn to Galatians chapter 3, a little different They too were diminishing the place of the Chapter 3 of Galatians, and I don't want to here, but we'll read the first three verses the context. &quot;You foolish Galatians, who has was publicly portrayed as crucified?&quot; This is the only thing I want to find out the Spirit by the works of the Law, or by Are you so foolish having begun by the Spirit, The Galatians, like all other believers, began Spirit. That's how they began. But they were coming under the influence of would affirm the gospel and the Lord Jesus circumcision, literal physical circumcision, for salvation so that they are essentially Christ and then to live their lives if their ceremonies, circumcision, and Mosaic Law. The gospel of grace then disappears and in Paul calls this being bewitched...bewitched Greek verb. It means to fascinate. It means to charm in a misleading way. Who has charmed you away from reality? Who has charmed you away from the truth? They had become willing victims, succumbing They received the Holy Spirit by faith. They began the Christian life by faith. Is it going to be perfected by flesh? Is it going to be perfected by fleshly methods, and ceremonies? Paul's point is pretty simple. If a person receives eternal salvation through as crucified, verse 1, and at that point by the fullness of the indwelling Holy Spirit and if with the Spirit taking up residence is therefore placed at that believer's disposal, spiritual goals? The Holy Spirit is the Christian's source The Holy Spirit is to the Christian what the Without God the Creator, the world does not Without God as the sustainer, it does not It is God who created it and God who sustains And so it is with the Holy Spirit and the Without the Holy Spirit we wouldn't be the Without the Holy Spirit we wouldn't be born And without the Holy Spirit we would not continue power. We would immediately, apart from the Holy from which we came. The creation cannot continue, it cannot survive and neither can a Christian sustain that Christian rite or ritual, it can only be sustained by Were it not sustained by the Holy Spirit, spiritual deadness. We live in the Spirit. We are being kept by the Spirit. He is the source of our life. He is the sphere of our spiritual existence. No one is saved without the Spirit or sanctified We cannot minister in the flesh, we minister So why...he says to the Galatians...would that saved you, and then turn from the work to those things which you left, those outward Why begin in the power of the Spirit and try the flesh? I have the feeling that the evangelical church in the power of the Spirit at salvation has This massive movement called the Charismatic but it is far more a work of the flesh than of God does not invest convincing expressions The Spirit of God doesn't do that. If there were a gift of healing, it wouldn't God doesn't verify heretics. It wouldn't belong to a false teacher. It wouldn't belong to a charlatan. It wouldn't belong to a fraud. It wouldn't belong to somebody getting rich If God gave those kinds of abilities to do who want to take your money and run. He wouldn't give them to scam artists. He wouldn't give them to those who teach wrongly God does not validate and verify error. But we've backed away as if people in that to affirm certain things about the Holy Spirit, only on that movement to say we need to go the ministry of the Holy Spirit. Now if you want to know more about that specific Chaos, it still speaks to that issue clearly But it isn't just that. As I mentioned a little while ago, we've become we do in the church, very skilled at our style that attracts a crowd, very good at assessing We've become very adept at marketing strategies of books when we figure out the strategy that's culture. We're good at that kind of stuff. And that's a big head trip. And when many numbers of people respond to and it may have absolutely nothing to do with Very little talk about the work of the Holy filling of the Holy Spirit, very little interest And as I said, in the early years of my ministry, to talk about. I had a period of about two and a half, almost way back in the sixties, when I was traveling 35 times a month. I did that for about two and a half years, And I was speaking mostly to youth groups And in variably everywhere I went they wanted Spirit. That was just what everybody was interested That was before things got so confusing with Pragmatic and the Psychological Movement. This is to dishonor the Holy Spirit, of course, Spirit the honor that He is due as God. You cannot set Him aside without bringing So what are we going to learn about the Holy Let me give you some things to think about, We're going to kind of work our way through Before I do that, just one other comment or I really believe that this is a sin in the the ministry of the Holy Spirit. It is a serious sin. It is a sin to think that we can do what only cleverness convert people. Plagianism, if you will, is a sin, that is own will and all we have to do is manipulate It is a sin against the Holy Spirit. It is a sin to think that we can win people It is a kind of usurping of the role of the It is a kind of blasphemy, if you will. It's a kind of profanity, really. And we know that the Holy Spirit always works honor the Spirit without honoring the Word...for It comes down to the fact that the church Holy Spirit, feeling that perhaps it can do And I'm deeply concerned. And I think the Spirit is quenched and grieved So let's talk about the ministry of the Holy First of all, we have to start where we have is the agent of salvation...the Holy Spirit I don't know if I'll get past this, that's What do we mean by that? Let's begin by looking at John 16....John And I want you to know that there's so much we could never do an exhaustive study of this We're not attempting to do that, rather to This is Holy Spirit, class 101. This is not the advanced study of the doctrine If you want the advanced and more extensive library and you can dig tomes out of the shelves of biblical revelation concerning the Holy But there are some things that are so foundational that we need to understand them and understand In John chapter 16, the Lord Jesus is promising He has been saying that. He says it in chapter 14, He says it in chapter Look at verse 7. &quot;If I do not go away,&quot; the , the one who comes alongside, the Holy Spirit mention in chapter 15 and verse 26 and back Helper, Paraclete, the Comforter. &quot;If I do you. But if I go, I will send Him to you and He, sin and righteousness and judgment; concerning righteousness because I go to the Father and And concerning judgment because the ruler Now we'll stop there for the moment, anyway. What is this ministry of the Holy Spirit? Convicting the world...convicting the world. That is, bringing upon the heart and soul He does a convicting work. He convicts of sin, first of all, because sin that damns. Finally and ultimately, no other sin finally Those who go to hell go to hell because they Any other sin is forgiven when one does believe So this is that ultimate damning sin, rejection The Spirit then convicts, the Spirit works anxiety and trepidation and terror and the And then secondly, righteousness, &quot;Because Me.&quot; What does that mean? It means the Spirit convicts the sinner not the sinner of the righteousness of Jesus Christ is why the Father received Him at the right He went to His Father and His Father received of His perfect righteousness. It is the Spirit of God then who works those of the sin of the sinner and the righteousness And the Spirit also produces in the heart be judged because the ruler of this world As Christ bruised the serpent's head at the seed of the woman of Genesis 3:15 destroys power of Christ displayed and all who are same judgment. Those are the things that the Spirit of God conviction...conviction of sin because people absolute perfect righteousness of Christ who atonement and propitiation and entered into right hand, and of the reality of judgment Since those are the areas which the Holy Spirit be the areas which we proclaim, right? The Holy Spirit doesn't do this work in a As we preach sin and righteousness and judgment, of God to work His great work. Admittedly, preaching sin is not popular, is absolutely necessary. Preaching the perfect righteousness of Jesus there...is therefore a perfect satisfaction perfect offering to satisfy His holy wrath, And so we are preaching here the great doctrine And, of course, we preach judgment. And that means the judgment of the prince kingdom of darkness, we preach eternal judgment, The Spirit of God works to produce these things. The Spirit of God needs the Word to be proclaimed And there are literally all throughout the of Scripture, these truths over and over again prophecy and type and symbol, and all throughout Listen to 1 Thessalonians 1:5, &quot;Our gospel and in the Holy Spirit and with full conviction.&quot; When you preach the gospel in the power of If I want to evangelize somebody, if I want people's hearts, the first thing I have to that on my own. There's only one who transforms people and So I want to ask the question, what is it the Spirit of God uses to begin the work of And it is the truth about sin and the truth judgment. Secondly, if we're going to begin at the beginning, Spirit who produces conviction when the truth It is also the Holy Spirit who produces repentance. It is also the Holy Spirit who produces repentance. In fact, I'm confident that's precisely what the eighteenth verse. &quot;When they heard this, 'Well then, God has granted to the Gentiles And how did this come about? The preaching mentioned earlier in verses...prior And then in verse 15 the Holy Spirit fell Verse 17, God gave to them the same gift that Lord Jesus because the same Spirit who came had prior to that granted them repentance. The Spirit produces conviction about sin, is related to sin and our sinfulness and the the Spirit produces conviction about judgment And, of course, we can add to that, look at The Spirit energizes the gospel, and these same dynamic work of the Spirit, but 1 Peter were not serving themselves but you in these prophets...in these things which now they the gospel to you by the Holy Spirit sent The gospel when it is truly preached is preached Why do we say that? Are we talking about some mystical power? Well we're talking certainly about the divine We're also talking about the gospel which the Holy Spirit. So the Spirit who is the author of the gospel gospel to you by the Holy Spirit sent from Again the indication here is the Holy Spirit First John 5 says, &quot;The Spirit who bears witness Whatever is a representation of the truth is therefore the witness of the Spirit, it Go back to John chapter 3, and we're just order to keep moving a little bit. But in John chapter 3 it all kind of comes with Nicodemus. &quot;How can a man be born when about how to get into the Kingdom of God, And then in verse 5, &quot;Truly, truly...Jesus water and the Spirit, he cannot enter into That which is born of the flesh is flesh, The point here is the Spirit regenerates. So the Spirit convicts of sin, righteousness The Spirit produces repentance by means of The Spirit energizes gospel preaching. And the Spirit then regenerates. If there is regeneration, it is because the That's why we're talking about being born In Titus chapter 3 it says in verse 5, &quot;He have done in righteousness, but according and the renewing by the Holy Spirit.&quot; It's the Spirit that renews and regenerates. Those are almost synonyms in that passage. So the whole work of salvation then is a work He's the author of Scripture which is the judgment. He is the author of Scripture which is the He is the author of Scripture which is gospel It is He who then through the proclamation energizes gospel preaching and witness and Now that is not all that the Holy Spirit does, And there are a lot of ways to see that in Let me just give you a couple of illustrations. Look at 2 Thessalonians 2:13 and here we get of the Holy Spirit...2 Thessalonians 2:13, brethren, beloved by the Lord, because God through sanctification by the Spirit and faith We're not talking about progressive sanctification here that is synonymous with salvation. And sanctification often is synonymous with The word sanctification means to be set apart, That's what salvation is, we are separated we're separated from condemnation, we're separated of God's dear Son. So initial salvation is a launch of sanctification, And that's what we're talking about here because It is this kind of sanctification that saves truth. It happens in that perfect combination of the glorious power of the Holy Spirit. He sets us apart to God. This is another way of saying everything I've repentance and that He gives the gospel power the same thing. There are many other things that the Holy mighty work of salvation. So that...going back to our text in Galatians listen...Paul says, &quot;Having begun in the Spirit We know we began in the Spirit, it all started And we needed to be reminded again the fact which the Spirit uses, that is the biblical the biblical truth about repentance, the biblical bit about that this morning and what's involved the gospel, and the biblical truth about regeneration do for himself but it's something that only out to God and beg God to do that on his behalf, we preach the truth which the Spirit of God Having begun in the Spirit, can we then be That's the question Paul is asking and while there, are you going to go off now into some ceremonial kind of living and assume that's to progress with God? If you do, then you're forsaking the Spirit in the flesh. And this is a kind of bewitching. We need to continue in the Spirit now that in the Spirit. What does that mean? Let me give you a few things to start and 15 or 20 things the Spirit does but we'll to. But there are a couple of things that we need Number one, He brings us the knowledge of He brings us the knowledge of and communion The Spirit is the one who gives us access He is the source of all our communion, all Turn to Romans 8...Romans 8, there's a couple enough to suffice for the moment to make the But in Romans chapter 8, this is the chapter to you that you couldn't study anything better what it means to live in the Spirit. And we looked at it a little bit earlier in the doctrine of sanctification. But it's about the Spirit. Verse 9, for example...well, we can go back the beginning of the chapter, but let's go is death, the mind set on the Spirit is life Verse 9, &quot;You are not in the flesh but in in you.&quot; Verse 11, &quot;If the Spirit of Him who raised raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also Spirit who indwells you.&quot; Verse 13, &quot;If you're living according to the But if by the Spirit you're putting to death All who are being led by the Spirit of God, So we're talking about life in the Spirit We begin in the Spirit and we live in the We go on living in the Spirit, not according But just look down to verse 14, and we'll it should be a treasure to us all. &quot;All who are sons of God.&quot; When you experience the direct leading of that you belong to God as a true son. &quot;For a spirit or an attitude of slavery leading of adoption as sons by which we cry out Abba, The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Now this is a marvelous reality in our lives. We literally say Abba, Father. That's a...basically it's a diminutive for It's like the writer of Hebrews saying, &quot;Let and He will draw near to you.&quot; This is an immense privilege to call God daddy, And we do that by the Spirit. The Spirit frees us from fear, frees us from have in one's heart in approaching God an And we come into God's presence as children and we speak to Him intimately and we unload and our petitions and our praise and we say Spirit. When one has been born again, the Spirit of a believer. We feel drawn to God, not fearful of Him. We feel privileged to ask Him for anything freedom. The Spirit of God has revealed in the Scripture has come to us all these things that are true just talking about information, I think it's That's verse 14. If you're led by the Spirit, these are the of slavery. That's gone. You hear people talk about being converted You hear people talk about never wanting to in God. All of a sudden they're converted to Jesus eager to read the Word and they love to commune And they sense that God is open. There is a true joy of fellowship because We can even cast all our care on Him because We can unload every issue in our lives. We can be honest with Him about our sins. We don't have to hide them from Him. We can be honest with Him about our sins, We should confess them all before Him without His grace through the sacrifice of Christ. So the Spirit then opens to us communion with And as you grow as a believer, this joyous over more and more of your life and there's We sing hymns about God's holiness. We sing hymns about God's glory. We sing them with a smile. We sing them with joy in our hearts. We sing them with gladness. We come before the Lord, as the psalmist said, We're a truly happy people. We're without fear because of the work of There's a second ministry of the Holy Spirit cover this one briefly, leave the rest for He illuminates the Scripture...He illuminates We just wrapped up our little look at the the inspiration of Scripture. And you can build a little bridge in your Spirit, He illuminates Scripture. As I mentioned earlier, according to the words is a matter of one's own interpretation. No prophecy was ever made by an act of human God.&quot; That tells us the Holy Spirit is the author But He's not just the author of Scripture, of Scripture. First John 2, look at it for a minute...1 I'll give you a couple of passages to look First John chapter 2 and verse 20, &quot;You have anointing from the Holy One and you all know,&quot; What is this anointing? Well it's none other than the Holy Spirit Scripture. Down to verse 27, if you will, &quot;As for you, abides in you.&quot; Now we know we're talking about the Holy Spirit. We've received Him from the Lord and He abides teach you.&quot; We don't need any human philosophy, human It doesn't mean we don't need Spirit-filled teachers because the Lord has given to the with teaching of Scripture. But we don't have any need for anyone other Spirit teaches us the Word because as His is true and is not a lie, and just as it has He in us and we in Him. The Spirit lives in us and we live in the We live and move and have our being in the We literally possess the life of the Spirit This is a marvelous thing. And the ministry of the Spirit therefore, placed upon us, is our teacher, the one who The Word anointing here is the word chrisma like an anointing oil. And it is the Spirit of Truth. As I said, in John 14, John 15, John 16, the truth, to guide us to see the glories of Christ. We'll see more about that later. All this is referring, of course, to the Holy But for the passage that's most critical on up here...just five minutes or so. First Corinthians chapter 2 and verse 9. Now verse 9 borrows from a couple of passages which eye has not seen and ear has not heard.&quot; All right, this would be truth not available It's not available to empirical search. Secondly, &quot;And which have not entered the It's not available through intuition. You can't find it externally and you can't all that God has prepared for those who love Everything that God has for those who are to the unregenerate. It's not available to them. You can't find it externally by scholastic You can't find it internally by intuition. Verse 10, &quot;For to us God revealed them,&quot; that that love Him, &quot;through the Spirit.&quot; God revealed them through the Spirit. &quot;For of God.&quot; That is to say that the Spirit knows everything To us, God revealed them through the Spirit. The Spirit again is the agency by which all is provided. And He gives a little analogy. &quot;For who among spirit of the man which is in him. Even so, the thoughts of God no one knows If you want to know the thoughts of God, then those thoughts to you and He has done that 12...not the spirit of the world, but the the things freely given to us by God.&quot; All these wonderful things which you can't find by internal intuition, all these things Him are unavailable to anyone apart from those verse 12, have received the Spirit.&quot; So we have an internal resident truth teacher This is part of the doctrine of illumination. Inspiration brings us the message. Illumination is the work of the Spirit which means. The Spirit illuminated us to understand our The Spirit illuminated us to understand the The Spirit illuminated us from the very beginning of truth brightly in our minds. So, says Paul, verse 13, &quot;Which things we So we speak the things which the Spirit has wisdom, but in those taught by the Spirit, words. A natural man doesn't accept the things of him and he cannot understand them because I received a phone call a few months ago from And the History channel keeps doing all of and the New Testament and the Old Testament, And they said, &quot;We would like for you to be Would you be interested?&quot; And my reply was, &quot;Absolutely not...absolutely and Belial. There's no fellowship between light and darkness.&quot; You can't have a whole list of people denying denial of it because they're explained right the things of the Spirit of God. They're foolishness to him. He can't understand them because they're spiritually He's spiritually dead. So he comes up with some intellectual answer near the truth and why would I get aboard I don't need...I don't need to be just another it would be my tendency to say, &quot;Well you're is.&quot; I would last about one program, I think. They would have edited me down to nothing. And it's not because I'm brighter than them, It's not because I'm more school than them, It is because I have the resident truth teacher apply myself to understand it. And the marvelous thing of all is in verse He should instruct him?&quot; Who knows the mind of the Lord but the Spirit And we have the mind of Christ. It's an amazing thing to realize that we expect...I interpretation. I expect them to misunderstand the Old Testament I've sat down with some rabbis, some very far brighter than I and more articulate than They don't get it at all. And I understand that. I have read and interacted with New Testament get it at all. And I get it not because I'm smarter, but teacher...I have resident in me the One who And I know that sometimes you think that I can't find them. I even have...I had somebody ask me a week I come every week and you come up with stuff I just want you to know, there's no secret. As I told a young pastor many years ago who I said, &quot;Accurate interpretation of the text.&quot; &quot;How do you do that?&quot; &quot;Keep your rear end in the chair till you've You have the promise of the truth teacher, ignorance. You've got to apply yourself. You know what being a pastor really is? It's just being freed up to work hard enough to find, or perhaps the training. Maybe I'm justifying the necessity of my existence, You're here and you're listening. That's a good thing. But it's so wonderful to come out of hours know what this means...I know what this means, has made it clear. It means this...&quot; And what Paul is saying here is, &quot;No one know And that's true in the divine sense by analogy. No one really knows the mind of God but the the Spirit of God wrote the truth here so mind of God and the mind of Christ?&quot; And then the Spirit's taken up residence in Well that's two out of ten. We'll cover some more next week. Father, again what a wonderful day to be together There's no reason we can't pray to You and for saving us, for convicting us of sin, righteousness We thank You, Holy Spirit for producing in We thank You for quickening and making the We thank You for regenerating us, giving us of the gospel. We thank You for sanctifying us. We thank You for giving us intimate knowledge And we thank You for ushering us into His sweetness of prayer and praise. We thank You for opening the Word to us, though the weak and the lowly and the nothings and We have the mind of Christ. We thank You that that's been made known to You do, O blessed Holy Spirit. And we regret and we are pained by the attitudes This must be of all times a time of grief We are warned in Scripture not to grieve the We're warned not to quench the Holy Spirit. And we're called to give honor to You, O Holy May You forgive the horrendous sins against of God. And may You give the church a new desire to experience Your power, to depend upon You. May we who are in the Spirit live by the Spirit May we not be like those Galatians, become the work that You do is done through the Word. Make us faithful to that and may You be honored will and in Your power. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.