In 1964 Japan unveils the Shinkansen glued to their televisions. As news to keep up, cheers erupt in living rooms powerful symbol of Japan's post-war Because at the dawn of the Jet Age, when replace everything else, the lowly train In the 19th century, the locomotive and ship as the primary movers of humanity. certain that the automobile and aircraft forms of transport largely irrelevant. obsolete. A slow and inconvenient way for unfettered freedom of the personal were pouring billions into building shutting down. In Europe, railways were operating steam locomotives. And it was through mountains, drilling 67 miles of new bridges. All to build a railway. But This was one of the most ambitious rail were calling it the Shinkansen, and the speeds unmatched anywhere in the world. train in Japan. And the new line would be which meant they'd be able to travel at biggest cities; Tokyo to Osaka. And to line would be built using a wider gauge gentle curves, which meant tunneling Japan's difficult terrain. But for all as ridiculous. A senior railway as the 'height of madness.' The wider gauge high speeds, made the Shinkansen incompatible with the rest of Japan's rail network. Many questioned the value on a single line, and whether the effort go this fast, was really worth it. But the was one enormously expensive project. years of construction, the Shinkansen's Nearly doubling over the original leading the project, the President of Engineer, both resigned before the calling it Japan's Great Wall of China. A when other countries were looking future. But the critics would soon fall When the first Shinkansen line opened in Because it made cars on expressways look profitable inter-city air routes were In just the first three years of service, passengers. Demand skyrocketed. The Japan's two largest cities, it seemingly executive could now attend a meeting in more than 320 miles away, and still make A combination of speed and frequent high-speed railway enormously was anything but ridiculous. Because the gamble on some radical new technology. proven technologies and brilliantly A Shinkansen train's surfaces minimized air resistance and There was no locomotive, not in the was distributed with axles each driven setup offered superior acceleration, and failed motors. It also meant more evenly reduced wear. At 130 miles per hour, the service speed in the world. And yet speed wasn't some vanity project. moving a large volume of passengers, so withstand the stress of running 60 every day. A number that would only today. To withstand the stresses, rail and rails, each normally 82 feet long, continuous sections to reduce vibration Cars were routed either above or below service. Moving at over 190 feet per struggled to react in time to solution was Automatic Train Control, a directly on board to the conductor, position. The entire line was monitored in Tokyo, critical to the safe operation the most earthquake-prone countries in installed along the line. The system earthquake, automatically activating a track in tip-top shape, special Doctor' regularly assessed the state of the sophisticated on-board monitoring first Shinkansen line spurred its of the next half century, new lines would the nation. The opening of the world's profound impact on Japan. But it also In no small part, the success of the to develop their own high-speed networks the early 1980's. Over the past 50 years continued to increase, made possible by generations of trains. Shinkansen trains miles per hour. While Shinkansen trains focusing on speed alone misses the point. match the Shinkansen for it's incredible the Shinkansen moves over 1 million periods, one departs Tokyo every three has maintained a pristine safety without a single passenger casualty. It's with average delays measured in just forged ahead with getting the first century ago, they were ultimately renowned high-speed rail network, and for the world. Japan's Bullet Trains run on their own traveling at 137 miles per hour were to struggling just to maintain 54 miles per bullet train to overtake the slower figure out what the length of the bullet post the correct answer in the comments store. It's one thing to know basic math intuitive ability to solve actual helps you master foundational math become a better learner, an intuitive no idea where to even begin solving our check out Brilliant's algebra courses, introductory to advanced. In Algebra 1 in Motion' where you'll learn how to distance, speed, and time. Brilliant is fun through doing, which is way better than down notes. Go to brilliant.org/mustard also the first 200 will get 20% off fun and engaging experience.