These trucks are about to cross a country Yet, it has a real border, with real uniformed customs agents. The customs demand a tax for everything just like in a real country. There's even a Visa office, It's best not to waste any time Hey, hey, wait, it's my turn. Without the Visa, the border police A country not recognized Somaliland is a spit of land Between Djibouti, Ethiopia and Somalia, The UN has never It's a no man's land Unpaved roads and straying off track Thousands of mines from the region's Last month, a truck blew up. This is all that's left of it. They were all killed. Given the danger, it's impossible to buy insurance Any arguments out here Look, they shot at me, Despite the risks, there are many to reach Hargeisa, with merchandise Over the border from Djibouti, A mass of ruins with 10,000 inhabitants. It's a key staging post It's 6:00 a.m. and Rashid, who is 42, makes the trip to the capital My truck is my house. It's my bed, my work, my life, really. Before setting off, His company's representative which is inside this canvas bag. It seems a lot, but in fact, it's not. Somaliland's currency is almost worthless. It takes ten kilos of money which is the equivalent Inside, the customs officer doesn't That's 500,000 Somaliland shillings, It is worth just over $65. To save time, the officials but judge them by their width. It's best to have the exact amount, as the change itself Okay, this should do it, thanks very much. Most of the cargo that Rashid is not destined for Somaliland. Carpets, foodstuff, the latest TVs just cross the territory Somaliland's powerful neighbor. No foreign driver We're the kings of transport. Rashid's truck is 35 years old. All of it seems to have been patched up. Well, the tires look okay. That one, yes, that one's good. It's nothing short of a miracle Listen, pump up Parts are only replaced when they break. This one's fine. Yes, that one, too. Apart from the tires, even if they're still roadworthy. A puncture or a burst tire in the middle Rashid travels with a mechanic By 8:00 in the morning, The sun has caused the thermometer The heat means you don't even sweat. Everything just evaporates. How long will it take? How long? That depends. If all goes well, we can cover the 350 kilometers Three hundred and fifty kilometers Look over there. That truck shouldn't be there. I know the driver. So what's wrong? The clutch is broken. How did that happen? We need to get your truck out of the way. It's blocking the track. Other vehicles could hit you. That doesn't seem possible. How could he cause an accident? His truck can be spotted and there's so much space here, However, in the desert, Under the thin crust of fine earth Leave one of the beaten tracks, The drivers don't take any chances Rashid, his mechanic and the driver Go on, push. But it's too heavy, It's heavy. The ropes are cutting my hands. Go on, push with your feet. We would never leave a friend If we don't help each other, we're dead. We're all brothers on the road. A few hours later, With such a monotonous terrain, you might think the desert Yet, anything can happen here. These two trucks With so much visibility, what went wrong? Hey, what happened? Are you hurt? Oh, it's just the radiator Yes, it's had it. The radiator has got a hole. Oh, this job's hell, we're like slaves. I know, it's my fault. My brakes didn't work. It was night, I saw the other truck on the track. The driver had gone to relieve himself However, I didn't dare If he had, he'd not just he'd have been risking his life. If you leave the trail on this stretch, one of the thousands The legacy of the conflict A British NGO is dealing with the mines, They allow the drivers Look, that zone has been cleared. That's safe, You should never leave the track. Last month, a truck blew up. That's all that's left of the truck. Nothing else. They were all killed. God help me stay on the track. The two truckers are alive, but their bosses will make them In Somaliland, the drivers themselves have to meet the costs Look, I've lost everything. I'll wait until There are no tow trucks Rashid will let their boss know The spare parts will take or even several months to get to them. While they wait, they'll be towed to a place known as This former small farming community has learned to profit It's transformed itself Give me that key, the one underneath. The victims of the desert who have become mechanics Look at the state of this tyre. The sand's worn it away. This driver's been stuck here He was transporting kerosene The sand got the better I broke down last month. I never got any new parts. I was in the middle of the desert I knew it was risky For drivers with nowhere to go, the village now boasts For a few cents, the truckers There are about a dozen of us living here. All of us are waiting for parts. It's too cold to sleep at night, So we have to remain standing The bush taxi driver the Village of the Damned for two months. Look, it's this one. But he's broke, as his wealth I stopped just to get a drink, and then a house caught fire Then it spread quickly There's no firemen or water here. There's nothing to put a fire out with. In Somaliland, I won't get reimbursed. I'm on my own now. Rashid checks his truck often. It's a precaution that Any delays are taken out of his pay. His family depends His wife doesn't have a job, It's good, let's go. Rashid drives at night to make up for the time In the dark, Never take your eyes off the road, or you'll get bogged down in the sand. Look, look, he's stuck. He behaved like a complete novice. He drove off the track. I can't tow him, or I'll get stuck too. It's too risky. We'll just keep going. The drivers have been trying We're screwed. The drivers are exhausted. Nobody will come and help us. They seem resigned to their fate. It's our own fault. We never even noticed Help will come at daylight, when the passing drivers Rashid is brave, but has his limits Getting stuck in the sand I don't get out of my truck at night. I'm too scared. It's crawling with snakes They come out at night when it's cooler. During the day, the sun At night, however, the water resurfaces and creates hazardous, muddy sand traps. The best way to get vehicles unstuck But the problem is that, in the desert, So sticks will have to do. You'll never get anywhere like that. You have to go straight ahead. Rashid takes charge to speed things along. That's good, go now. Sometimes, the only thing to do I'm not too worried. I'll make it across, no problem. They'll fill in the holes, Just like that. Go on, put the shovel away, please. In the early morning, A little more green. There is life despite the unbearable heat. Water lies just under the sand, enough to enable small, Rashid's been behind the wheel Rashid reaches a small oasis. The village is the halfway point I'm dead. Shattered. I have to rest and get some sleep. Do you have any clean water? No, I've got no drinking water. What? Nothing? All she has is some water and to fight off fatigue, The small, green leaves It's a powerful drug In just a few minutes, Rashid becomes very irritable, No one cares about Somaliland. We're fed up. The whole world has abandoned us. I take khat when I'm really tired. That's how much I'd need So it's a drug? Of course, it's a drug. All the drivers use it. Khat is 100 times worse than whiskey. In the end, even the drug One hour later, Rashid starts up again. He has little choice, The track becomes more uneven, I'm going to drive all day and not stop. We'll be getting to a mountainous area Beyond the mountain range lies the capital But it's not an end to his problems. This truck's tires were new, yet no match The driver curses the Chinese-made tires. They're useless for this trail. The tires rip up Behind him, a traffic jam is forming. There'll be many along soon. That's how it is, got no choice. Rashid has found somewhere in the shade and told his mechanic I've told my mechanic to go and help them. Why're you helping him? Oh, it's so we can You see? An hour later, the incident is over, From here on, every minute counts, as it's no longer possible The route here is constantly changing. Huge holes can appear These holes don't create themselves. They're manmade willing to do anything They're looking for columbite, It's a rare substance, but needed for the electronics The head of this group is Mawlid. He's the only one who knows Here's the columbite. Chinese companies for virtually nothing. It's hard to make a living from this. There are ten of them, poorly-equipped, yet they manage to extract The backbreaking work earns them It's a tough business, but we have hope. Sometimes, we also manage such as this aquamarine. If it's well-cut, it's worth Dreams of riches that and also attracts the young. Of course not, we don't go to school. We prefer to come here to the mines. We're not interested in school. Here, we might get rich. My dream is This time, the diggers have only found The next step is to check its quality, Mawlid has a wife, and three kids. He's proud that allows him to send his kids to school. I want to be like my father. But he takes it upon himself Go on, help me look That's aquamarine. That's columbite. Mawlid quickly seems disappointed How much will that make? It's enough for a week, maybe. Mawlid believes that, if his country he could quit working at the mine, because the desert, hides a treasure that's unique, The guardian of this For now, he and a few shepherds to benefit from the discovery unearthed Dozens of prehistoric drawings reminiscent of the Palaeolithic art Locals hope that, tourists from all over the world The old man has already got So you can clearly see the paintings Giants must have painted them. They lived here 6,000 years ago. They slept in the forest, in this cave. However, the treasure, is slowly disappearing. No one is protecting them The wind and the sand Look at this drawing. It's fading away. If nothing is done soon, Rashid has come through the mountains In flatlands, he floors the gas pedal. If he arrives ahead of schedule, If you're not too late, That way, you can turn right round Rashid makes about 135 dollars It's about three times It's a comfortable wage for the drivers, The capital, Hargeisa, and the pride of all Somaliland. One million live here. It was totally destroyed and has gradually been rebuilt, and in a somewhat haphazard way Rashid has taken two days He tries to find more freight Now leave me alone, I have to hurry. I haven't even washed for 48 hours. Rashid will soon find another cargo, Not that many years ago, and using a much-respected animal But with the arrival of trucks, Now it's raised mainly for its meat. Somaliland is one of the world's They sell throughout the Middle East. Here, thousands of animals are sold No, no, you can't do that to me. I don't agree with your price, let go. Stop, stop, he's filming us! The camera isn't welcome, To keep it so, as both the buyer and seller to negotiate the price with their fingers. Camels go for as much To us, the camel is everything. Every Somalilander has a camel. Without it, he couldn't live. It's our favorite meat. It makes us strong. The hump, the legs, All of it is so good. According to the locals, eating camel meat The animal might first appear placid, Getting one on board a truck Its kick has crippled more than one human. But the men mean business as each camel brings in For that kind of money, even at the cost of injuring themselves. These animals are all heading the largest consumer of camel meat. What money the tough camel men like When my wife's not around, this is where I come The small, green shack This is where they can buy Drivers aren't the only ones just about everyone does. This is what's killing us, It's killing us, The green-colored shops litter Hargeisa, but by early afternoon, There's nothing left. Yes, you'll have to wait. When the drugs run out, I buy 10 dollars worth every day. Why is it so important for you? We don't have any work, we have nothing. I'm a graduate of Hargeisa University and I'm unemployed. That's why I chew khat. Vehicles, blasting their horns, announce No time to waste, The deliverymen will get paid later. This is our kind of cocaine. The customers and everything gets sold In Somaliland, khat is no joking matter. If the drug ever ran out, The last Somali dictator When he dared to ban khat, the people of Somaliland Nowadays, two extremely wealthy families Neither was willing to be interviewed, but one did allow Mohammed has been able thanks to the drug money. I added a turbo to my truck and now, it can hit We're the best drivers in the business, Every evening, Mohammed, aged 32, In Somaliland, a plant that needs It grows abundantly in Yemen, Kenya, and in particular, The Ethiopian border but the drug is loaded to maintain maximum discretion. Is there much left to load? No, no, that's it. Mohammed loads up four tons of the drug. Okay, let's go now. The competition is fierce. The shops purchase Khat is consumed fresh, I'm transporting over It's a bit like fresh fruit. You need to distribute it quickly, It all needs to be delivered To save time, the bags are thrown out from the still-moving truck. Hey, you got two. As he reaches the suburbs of Hargeisa, Yes, hello? Yes, we're coming, it's okay. We're late, we'll have to speed up. What, do you want some? Do you? Are you not scared of being in the back? I love this work. It's dangerous in the back, Not everyone can do this. To Mohammed's relief, he's the first to reach the country's largest The man buys three There's pandemonium. The suppliers while Muhammad It's not unknown for a bundle or two It's always a madhouse These people have been waiting for hours. It's 9:00 in the morning, Surprisingly, maybe khat does have It's a drink that sells as widely as khat, and is also delivered It also makes you strong, It's so good. It's like honey. It's camel milk, and has the same reputation as camel meat. It makes you virile. It's strictly for those Abdul is a veteran milkman. Each day, for 40 years, he's been heading out There are no machines here, The fresh milk is then transferred I'll take this milk to Berbera. It'll take me about two hours. Won't the milk curdle? Of course not, it'll still be good. The containers of milk are transported, and hanging off the back of the truck. In his old pickup, the journey The road is really bad, Sometimes, the conditions are so bad Look how worn out it is. Nothing really works anymore. The suspension's had it. Never mind the headlights, See this hole in my windscreen? That was made by a bullet. Someone opened fire. It went through here. Luckily, I wasn't injured. Abdul is hoping and has taught him I always take my shoes off to drive. I prefer being barefoot and not drive too quickly. To start, I don't have a key, The road to Berbera is 50 kilometers that has already done so much damage When we looked at his car's undercarriage, we saw that the steering device was tied together with leather straps, and that the sole of a shoe A patched-up vehicle, whose biggest It's been ages since its brakes worked. So to stop it, There's no emergency brake either. There are mines all around this road. Just one week ago, His stick hit a mine. I think he was killed. But I trust in God, and only 40 percent of our land It could be worse. Shepherds wait alongside the road Go on, hurry up. This time, it's goat's milk. In the desert, the men are quite macho, Fill this up quickly. For those who maybe don't know better, Abdul also takes The shepherds are off to market Mind his legs. I can squeeze in a dozen at the back. I charge about a 1.50 dollar each. For now, this woman is smiling. The men of the desert are more used than being rattled At the back, Oh, women, they're always trouble, especially among the nomads. They're not used to it, Come on, hurry up. We can't really stop there The old lady, exhausted is too weak to climb on board. Oddly, no one offers to help her. The young woman in red has had enough. Are you not well? No. Do you want to throw up? Yes. The desert is a harsh place The weak do not belong here, Such callous human relationships extend Abdul reaches Berbera He's immediately surrounded by It's midday, and they'll be hard-pressed A substantial loss of income Hey, come on, calm down, calm down. You'll each get what's yours. So which is my goat? Which one? I've had enough of waiting. The grandson doesn't appreciate criticism, and despite his age, As for the goats, I'm fed up hearing about your milk. Take it and go. Go on, take this one, go away. See, we've already finished, It may not look like much, but Abdul's dilapidated vehicle No customer dares complain They don't want to upset the milkman. They depend on his goodwill that he alone collects in the desert. Berbera is the nation's only port. The wrecks of old tankers off the coast The port itself is modern such as this one, heading to Saudi Arabia, with the camels One thousand camels and, like elephants, they never forget. They launch a few subtle against those who may have When one of the animals drastic action is needed. It doesn't want to get up, boss. The animals are, for the moment, But not for much longer. The ground below Somaliland and international oil companies Oil, that might make Somaliland rich and finally recognized as a state