He actually kissed me This is my first kiss in 23 years Recently There have been many cases of robbery and theft in our city Linchuan judicial crime reminds the general public to be vigilant situation Song Yao, the suspect may have found you Go in the direction of the Civil Affairs Bureau There will be a colleague there to meet you Remember the connector code You were three minutes late. Reply sorry Pay attention next time Ok, I'll be right there. breastfeeding Did Ache go to the Civil Affairs Bureau? You remember that Xiao Guo is wearing a white shirt and jeans. Don't identify the wrong person when you get the certificate. Got it, grandma. It's over. It's over, it's definitely going to be discovered OK You're three minutes late. Is a street colleague Sorry, I'll pay attention next time. I still have something to do to drive away It seems that World Dou Tong is right Excuse me? ID card, I arranged a shortcut No need to queue Oh, this colleague is acting like that. You startled me. Ok sir, wait a minute. Hey, do you still need my help with the rest? Or should I just follow you? I've already arranged for the rest Take a picture later. It's just a process. If you regret it The door opens just behind You can go anytime. Keep your voice down. I'm afraid of being heard Yeah? How? Marrying me is a disgraceful thing How is that possible? I would love to marry you! Mr. Miss It's time to take pictures. I'll go. It's so realistic. It's like getting married Two newcomers Lean towards the middle. come Oh so beautiful Come on. Come on. Come on. Okay. Okay. Hey, Mr. Zheng Miss Song Yao Congratulations! Thanks. And so forth. Song Yao Who is Song Yao? Who is Song Yao? OK Have Xiaoche and Xiaoguo completed receiving the certificate? Wait, I'll go back and tell you. Hello I want a divorce. Ah wait wait Didn't you fake marriage because of the mission? Miss, I got the wrong person. No I'm sorry, I'm not marrying him Get me a divorce Uh sir Divorce is a one-month cold period I'm a VIP. Excuse me, sir. The VIP launched by this bureau is only for marriage No need to queue But not divorce The system cannot be changed. Really? Did I really admit it wrong? A street colleague also got married by the way husband Marrying you is the greatest happiness of my life We will be a family from now on Miss Fu, what are you doing? I'm from the law enforcement team I'm on a mission now Your 5 o'clock direction is my mission goal Please cooperate with my work. Sun Hao, what's the situation with you? The responding colleague is already waiting for you at the Civil Affairs Bureau. Team Ming, the suspect has just left You directly ask the responding colleague to follow you directly. Don't worry about me. Suspect, he should have believed me Received, you can return to the team ASAP. Captain me Can't go for now You are hurt. Say it, you may not believe me just now Accidentally got married Are you gutsy? Dare to make fun of me I'll give you five minutes immediately Are you done? What do you aim at? I'm really in the law enforcement team Come and see Did you see it? I, Song Yao, am an intern in the law enforcement team I just accidentally Treat you as my elite colleague Who knew it was such a coincidence? You've hit my elite code Give me your phone. What's up? Leave a phone number first I have to get back to the team now Take this marriage certificate first When you are free, you can call me. Solve the golden problem? Hey, hey, hey. This Woman grandma Why are you dressed like that? Where are you going? Ah Cheng, why are you here? Xiao Guo just called to say that he was in a car accident Can't go to the Civil Affairs Bureau I went to the hospital to see him. Hey, you lied to grandma that you went to get a certificate. Tell me if you didn't go at all Grandma, I really got the certificate Wrong person wrong person Don't scare grandma. The marriage certificate is here Who is this? OK A woman. I know she's a woman Ah! Do you know his background? no. Ouch, my good grandson. Listen to grandma Quickly divorce this woman and marry a sister-in-law This small pot was tested by my hidden identity Good Girl have have have Grandma, I promised you to get married But no matter who I only get married once Why is that pot returned? Leave it to your cousin Ah he goes Ouch His name is Xiao Guo Oh, I see. This kid oops Su Mu, go check it out. A woman named Song Yao And what is the name of the close grandma Guo? play God damn it! Why did the car accident happen at this time? Obviously almost became the president of Pei Group madam Will you do it? Miss Guo, you dare to talk back to me because you moved around Do you believe it or not? I am safe Ann you are It doesn't matter. Miss nurse Didn't you just accidentally miss her? It doesn't matter. grandma It's this nurse lady It just accidentally hurt me. I comfort her Miss Gu There we go. Thanks. Miss nurse I really read it right. You are such a kind and good girl. Ann, how are you feeling? Grandma, I'm fine. The doctor said I can leave the hospital tomorrow It's alright It's alright It's just a pity. You and Archer didn't meet today Sorry grandma It's all my fault I don't know. Why are things the way they are? How could this be your fault? Car accidents are unpredictable. It seems that it is God's will I have no relationship with your grandson But don't worry, grandma. Even if we can't be a family I will still treat you as my own grandmother Filial piety is such a good boy You see the day I fell Only you helped me up You are the kindest child I have ever met Grandma, what are you talking about? This is what I should do. This old man If he hadn't been identified beforehand Know his eyeliner Who will save him? Hey, after all? You are grandma's favorite granddaughter-in-law Don't worry, I'll go back. Archer says Let you touch more He will definitely like you Grandma you are the best Hahaha Hey, today's task is really hard Also got married for no reason There's a really unlucky one. Grandpa, I'm back. Grandpa grandpa What's wrong with you, grandpa? Doctor, how is my grandpa? No life-threatening for now Ok thanks doctor Don't thank me too early Your grandfather's illness is too rare There is currently no suitable treatment plan in our hospital Miss Song, you should make other plans earlier How long does my grandfather have? If there are no other treatment options A conservative estimate of two months Grandpa grandpa How have you been? Why am I still alive? Grandpa What a pity! I don't know. Before I go Can you see me marry Yaoyao and start a family? Grandpa, say that again I'll ignore you Grandpa's body grandpa knows At most There is still a month or two left. No grandpa I will definitely do my best to cure your disease. Silly boy I don't want you to promise grandpa two things before I leave Does Su Yao really not consider staying in the law enforcement team? It was my grandfather who didn't want me to be like my parents He just wanted me to be a normal person But that's fine I can go back and inherit his processing plant Become a young female factory manager Su Yao, your parents both sacrificed their lives for work They were heroes for the people. I can understand how your grandfather feels. Then I wish you all the best from now on Thank you, Captain. Finally fulfilled grandpa's first wish This second one You find someone who can take care of you, marry and start a family Otherwise, grandpa will not be at ease even if he goes underground. Hey If you find someone on a blind date Then I have to at least get rid of yesterday's inexplicable marriage Give it away Don't delay other people's marriages What was the name of that person yesterday? Boss Pei, Song Yao and the public security information have been investigated clearly This Guo Anan is a complete liar Know that none of the identities are real It can be seen that he deliberately approached the old lady Want to covet the Pei family's property You sent someone to keep an eye on him The old lady likes him very much At this time, even if you tell the old lady He may not believe it either But they are all Ma Xiaofan over there. Yes Song Yao's identity is innocent Both parents are members of the law enforcement team But they all died in the line of duty There is also a grandfather who is not in good health at home According to his neighbors He is a very filial and kind girl You speak highly of him Know the face but not the heart Who knows if he's too cunning? So well disguised Mr. Hai, do you still mind Miss Zhong Xueyao? I said don't mention this person's name in front of me again Zhong Xueyao left me for the future That moment. There is no such person in my world Boss Pei is not good The old lady is here Just tell him directly that I'm not in the company. I told you. But the old lady said he was sitting outside Until you come back He also said that also said What else did you say? also said Your marriage halfway through is not a fulfillment of your promise to him Let you get a divorce quickly Hou married a public security lady as the president's wife Boss Pei, you are already married to Miss Song Yao anyway Why don't you try to get along? Hey, where's my marriage certificate? How dare you make a harassing call to the law enforcement team? Why did you hang up on me? Who are you? Pecher Your husband? I'm your father too Ah! How could I possibly live with a woman like that? Isn't this looking for abuse? Oh, no. Boss Pei did not have a good impression of Miss Song It's worse now. Pecher And so forth. Pecher It's over. It's over. I completely offended people to death No way. I'll try another number. Hello say Sorry. Mr. Pei, my name is Song Yao I'm really sorry just now. Because I don't have your phone number in my phone. So it was automatically marked as a harassing call. I really didn't mean to offend you. Go ahead. What's the matter with me? It's the following. Mr. Pei In order not to affect our divorce cooling off period Normal marital behavior I think we need to each write a note Explain the current situation To avoid significant misunderstandings between the other parties Do you have a boyfriend? Ah! I don't have a boyfriend. Then don't go I don't have a girlfriend either You don't have a girlfriend Then why did you get your certificate from the Civil Affairs Bureau? Oh, I was forced into marriage by my little sister at home We have to talk about it. You find someone who can take care of you, marry and start a family Otherwise, grandpa would not be at ease even if he went underground He doesn't have a girlfriend. I don't have a boyfriend. And we are both because of our elders. Looking for someone to marry Mr. Pei, why don't we try it? Don't get divorced yet Are you sure? My condition So-so. I see your clothes are well dressed. Oh, you mean this dress? I borrowed it from a friend Gucci Spring/Summer 2024 It's expensive. Uh-huh. That's OK. What do you do? Currently not working Homeless Stay longer Miss Song Won't dislike me Kind of person No, no, it doesn't matter. I'm about to inherit my grandfather's factory If you really can't find a job You can help in my factory. Don't want to go to work So can you be a housewife man at home? You are inside and I am outside housework I will follow you on housework I can do it. I can teach you slowly. You look so good. You look smart. You will definitely learn it as soon as you learn it. Then if during this period I I'm in love with someone better than you Then if during this period I'm in love with someone better than you Ah! Hello what did you say Grandpa is critically ill Ok ok I'll be there right now. Hey, Miss Song I don't think we're done talking Excuse me? Mr. Pei, I am in a hurry now Need to go to the hospital As for what you just asked If you fall in love with someone better than me You can file for divorce at any time I will definitely agree. And in the divorce I am willing to give you half of the property according to the law You can think about it. I'll go first Song Yao Is there such a stupid girl in the world? Hello Su Mu Help me check the hospital where Grandpa Song Yao is located Are you sure you don't sign first? The patient's condition is critical Can't wait too long We don't sign If this is signed You're killing people. Where are you going to reason? Haven't you already notified that girl Song Yao? Wait until her girl comes over and talk about you Hey How did that happen? Why did my grandfather suddenly faint again? The patient was caused by a momentary fire The patient needs rest So It's best for your family to stop provoking the patient casually To avoid a repeat of today's critical situation Miss Su, since you are here Just sign the critical illness notice Not good for surgery OK Dr. Finniang Did you do it? Is it because You my father just passed out Su Yao, don't be bloody The second uncle was already very sick And we just said two words to him It has nothing to do with us. I really underestimated how cheeky you guys are I'd like to hear it What the hell did you say? It made my father so angry Hey listen Song Yao, do you still have any education? Who told you to talk like that in front of your elders? Elders are like you Don't be my elder You don't make noise Didn't you see the two ancestors there? Song Yao, I asked your second uncle if he gave you the factory Why did you suddenly come to the hospital? It was for my grandfather's estate Stop talking nonsense Just say yes. I'm my grandfather's biological granddaughter. Of course my grandfather's things were left for me You girl movie You can't carry on the family line. What qualifications do you have to inherit the family property? Is to inherit It was also inherited by my father Our stuff Why do you inherit Just because this is an ancestral ritual inherited from generation to generation Hey, you're always right Since ancient times, family businesses have been passed down from man to woman This is the rule left by the ancestors Second uncle just let your dad ask Originally, our Song family was still counting on your father Inherit the lineage of the second uncle Dad didn't live up to expectations She gave birth to a daughter, and she never gave birth again. And now Dad's gone Second uncle has me Yes, Song Yao As the saying goes This boy is golden Girl is grass This boy and girl were born different Son at home This waist bar can be straightened Now. Your uncle is the closest person to your grandfather. And ah, it's a clan decision The Song family is a big family All property divisions must be approved by the clan elders This is inherited by the clan from Song Jianguo's family estate Take a look at the public book Sign it now Song Yao, daughter of the Song family Voluntary abandonment of all property under Song Jianguo's name Transfer to Songcheng And this notarial certificate has been signed since It has the same function as a will All have legal effect Do you know that this is a society ruled by law? Hey no Stop procrastinating Sign it now It's just that we're still in a hurry to get home for lunch Want me to sign? Haha, how dare you tear up the notarial certificate of the clan So what if I tear it up? Not to mention that my grandfather is still alive Even if my grandfather is really gone I can't possibly give up my fortune to someone else Su Yao You defy the crest Will Concubine Tu Kangfei be expelled? Delete I'm not afraid Even your second uncle? Do you want to implicate him and become famous with the lease? Song Yao, if you still agree to lease today I can make you and your grandfather famous together Mr. Ming, please calm down Take it easy You also know Song Yao's second uncle's body The old man never wants to return to his roots According to clan rules Famously, you can't bury it in the ground after you die You can't always die after your second uncle I'm going to end up being betrayed by everyone Yes, people have to talk about conscience Finally, don't forget Your parents and grandmother are still buried in the clan Alive can't be reunited If they die, they must be buried together Uncle's family is right Life and death is a big deal You can't rely on your own selfishness Let Yasukuni not live in peace after death? If grandpa is really famous because of me And die in peace. I knew you would do this An extra notarized certificate was printed Think carefully and sign it quickly How troublesome it is for him to sign Didn't you bring the ink pad? Hey. Hey why Well, just a matter of time Su Yao It's not your fault. Who let you reincarnate without a handle? You know, the son is the root of the family. Besides, this woman was born a Marry and wait for you Married, I am from the Song family But he is even less qualified to inherit the Song family's property Grandma is right It's not our aunt's second uncle's property Except my dad No one has the right to inherit Old sister En Dad En Dad En Dad En Dad What are you thinking? Uh-huh. call Still, where are you looking? Is it him? As long as Song Yao never gets married Or the Song family Then he can inherit his grandfather's estate Who are you? God, I didn't expect Pei Chen to come to help me I am Song Jia, Song Yao's door-to-door son-in-law Now he can inherit his grandfather's estate Ah! Yes he is my door-to-door son-in-law From now on, our child will be surnamed Song. You can inherit your grandfather's lineage In this case, it is not a violation of the clan rules, right? There is another Song rule of the Song family. There is such a thing Song Yao, when did you have a door-to-door son-in-law? How do we not know? I don't seem under any obligation to tell you. My business I'm afraid it's the actor I found Some people covet their family property When will this be available? Song Yao, you said she was your door-to-door son-in-law What evidence do you have? Is this evidence enough? Marriage certificate head Really married The actors used props to prove it was fake. Friend Do a test drive and start doing it I brought back all the props Are you his brother? Attended nine years of compulsory education What do you mean? Are you fucking scolding me? Do you have this kind of brain? Most likely it is just to increase the height. See clearly It's a stamp with a steel stamp on it. Seals are also forged Song Jie Did you know that it is illegal to forge a marriage license? You're going to jail. You think I'm a member of a law enforcement team Will law enforcement break the law? Use your brain. If you don't use your brain, it's going to rust You? I see. This man is a fake relationship with you. The two of us have no feelings at all It's for the family property, right? Otherwise, the date of the marriage certificate Hey, why was it yesterday? Ah look My mom was right. You really are looking for anyone Come and play for you Who says we don't have feelings anymore? Who says we don't have feelings? He actually kissed me This is my first kiss in 23 years Let you down What about me and my wife? It's not just emotional. And the relationship is very good Right, honey? Yes, I have a very good relationship with my husband. You don't have to worry about it here You shameless We are husband and wife What shame do I have? I think it's you who is shameless, right? Suspicion of other people's married life how Would you like to come and see our bed tonight? Oh, dear. Ah! Now. You inherited his grandfather's property to my wife There should be no doubts, right? What about dad? What else could we do? Go now Didn't see it Did you bring so many people today? Humph Mr. Pei and the others Yeah. They, I hear voices here I'm afraid you'll be bullied So I asked my good brother to be a bodyguard Yeah, right? Right Bentley Since there is nothing wrong Then we'll go first. Thanks for your hard work. hard work Cosmecta But they don't look like normal friends, do they? They may be ordinary Compare Mr. White Could this Peeta be some underworld? Rascals No no How can I think of my benefactor so much? Mr. Pei, no matter what Thank you for helping me out just now We are husband and wife after all Mr. Pei You agreed to my proposal. If Miss Song doesn't dislike my poor conditions If you ask for more No problem at all Don't worry, Mr. Pei As long as I have one bite to eat in the future You won't be missing a bite. Drink too well To fulfill grandpa's second wish only Your relatives don't seem to be giving up. That's okay. Soldiers will block the water and cover the earth And Mr. Pei helped me Grandpa Push the patient into the ward first Doctor, how is my grandfather doing? The surgery was thrilling Your grandfather is not completely out of danger We need to move to intensive care As for waking up How long can you last when you wake up? That's up to God Hey be careful Are you all right? Yeah. Is there no other way? In fact, there is another way How? You've heard of the top surgeons in the country. Dr. Zhou Tiancheng Zhou He has a proud disciple It happened to be the direction of research on your grandfather's disease I heard it was today. There was a breakthrough. If you could ask him to treat your grandfather Maybe there's still a chance The disciple you mentioned It can't be Lu Linfeng of the Lu family in Jiangcheng, right? Yes, that promising young Dr. Lu But I heard that he has been abroad at the moment. Hey what? This gentleman, do you know him? If I say I know Will it not fit the character created now? Ah, I have relatives at home who have treated him before Maybe I can get in touch with him That's great. If you can really contact Dr. Lu There is hope for your grandfather's illness OK, I'll try to get in touch. Thank you Mr. Pei Thanks. Don't send it. We go back by ourselves It's all Song Yao's door-to-door son-in-law who ruined our good thing It made the two elders so angry It was a mistake. Hey, the boss Let Song Yao, the money-losing guy, inherit the second uncle's family property Don't say anything else Just the processing plant. The profit this year is also 700,000 to 800,000 He has to be able to hold it Second uncle can't last much What do you mean? Don't worry. I've already arranged it Bye. Come here. Listen to me and go back Don't worry dad I'm on it. Mr. Li, thank you for helping me so much today. If you need my help with anything in the future You can tell me. As long as I can help I will definitely help You can help with anything Neither is At least illegal Things that go against benevolence and morality are not acceptable What if it was that kind of thing? Is that what I think it means? Although we have become husband and wife But it doesn't have to be so blunt If so, it's not impossible. It's just that I think We'd better Or cultivate the relationship between husband and wife first Otherwise, in case you feel uncomfortable Hahaha What is Miss Song thinking? I just want you to help me rent a house Rent a house Or else? What kind of thing does Miss Song think I'm talking about? No, no, no, no. Song Yang, you big idiot Yeah, where did you go? People just want to rent a house Hey, why do you want to rent a house? My old house is about to expire There may be no place to live after that I have no job and no income That's easy. Mr. Tian, please come to my house I happen to have a two-bedroom house. Grandpa is now in the hospital Empty is also empty We can have a room for two. What do you think? Hello? Would that be too much of a treat? No way. You've helped me so much. I just helped you find a house And isn't that what it should be? Are you saying we are husband and wife? Aren't these two very nice? This time there will be a fight Hey If only the two could be together Mr. Black can also escape from the shadow of Blizzard Completely out What are you looking at? Let me see. Don't go Go aside Humph Ah! This eldest grandson is very capable Put his own grandmother in public Si came out to find the fox spirit That's not a good thing at first glance That old man, you took it upside down. Use your tube Well, why don't you go back and pack your things first? I'll send you the address later. Okay, then I'll go up and take care of grandpa first Bye. Bye. Hello Lu Lifeng I want to see your people in the country before 6pm Please, Master Pei It takes a breath to hang money You gotta let me finish what I'm doing Go out again What's more, we have a time difference. It's night now Tomorrow morning at 8:00 Hey no Who do you want me to treat? Looking for me in such a hurry Could it be grandma? You shouldn't. If anything happened to grandma, I would have known Then stop guessing. You will know each other when you come back. Hang up Quack quack hide grandma Hi. Why are you here? Who keeps some people busy? I don't even have time to see Grandma 7. Tell me the truth Are you unwilling to marry Xiao Guo as your wife? Yes Know the face but not the heart How did you know? What kind of Guo bowl is better than Song Yao? I know, how about me these days? Dress up as an old scavenger I'm with Xiao Guo He was gentle and patient with me He's the kindest girl I've ever met Compare that to the heartless Coincidentally, I have been here these days. It is also to get along with Song Yao as a homeless person Well, not only does he not mind Then I still think Xiao Guo is the best. Only a girl like him deserves to be my granddaughter-in-law Humph OK, then I'll make a bet with you Don't you think it's that Guo? What bowl helped you? Did you just notice him? Then you put the same trick on Song Yang If you win I promise you a divorce Is that what you said? Can't go back Su Mu, can you testify to us? It's the old lady, I heard it all I'll go back now and tell Xiao Guo the good news Get ready by the way Humph Boss Pei Do you really plan to let the old lady go to serve Miss Song? What if he refuses to accept it? He doesn't know the identity of the old lady He will take it It's not about identity As long as he sees He will do it Let him go! Anyway, I have other arrangements for this Didn't you say that people are not good in the morning? I have such a high evaluation of people in the afternoon It's me it's me At first I thought she was a scheming girl But I made up this unemployed identity She doesn't doubt it at all? And let me move into her house Give me back the package to eat and live without any tricks That's not scheming. It's not just heartless Hey, poor Boss Pei I was really scared by that middle school student What did this school take? Ah, this is the one that looks like a telescope. razor Here you go. I'm going to drive Miss Song Miss Song Song Yao Zhong Xueyao Why is there a photo of Song Yao at home? This should be enough for a few days Okay, how dare you steal from my aunt's house? Thief Song Yao I'm sorry I put your pants up Sorry, sir. I didn't mean to. Aren't you going to get up yet? How are you doing? Are you all right? What quality pants did this Somo buy? Hey, your lip was broken by me. Even the pants are torn Mr. Pei, I will definitely pay you for a new pair of pants tomorrow No. How much are your pants? I'll transfer it to you now. Just scold me Or you can hit me It's all my fault I took you for a thief Forget it, it's even This Mr. Pei turns out to be so good-looking. What are you doing? I'll get you medicine when I see your lip is broken Song Yao, what are you thinking about? Mr. Pei, bear with me It might hurt a little. You'd better call me Pecher OK Don't call me Miss Song anymore Call me Yaoyao My grandfather called me that too OK Hey I ask you Why do you have a picture of this woman? You say this? After my parents died There are a lot of people who want to sponsor me Sister Zhong Xueyao is also one of them He gave my family a large sum of money That's why my grandfather opened the factory too I followed the account and found his information I just kept this photo of him What are you looking at? How does Yaoyao enter the mountain? Ah Cheng, look at this little girl, how pitiful she is! She's only a teenager Parents are on a mission All sacrificed Xueyao Is the counselor calling you? Here comes Chao The counselor called me I'll go first Thanks. Hello Zhang Wenxia Help me earn some money for a family in the name of Yaoyao Peizhao Mr. Pei What are you thinking about? You don't know Sister Zhu Xueyao too, do you? You don't know Miss Zhu too, do you? No, I don't. I had nothing to do with her. Not now. Never again Really? Why am I listening to you? Why is it so strange? Anyone? OK. Then you can't deceive me in the future. What I hate most about myself is being deceived. What if it's a white lie? Whether well-intentioned or malicious That's all deception Li Chao, are you hiding something from me? No Of course not. That's good, otherwise I'll just be reasonable I also know a little bit about punches and kicks Hey, don't look at me as an intern When I first went on a mission So many big men standing in front of me I'm not afraid I just kicked it up Dare to fly They knelt in front of me and called my aunt humph I'm awesome Why are you looking at me like that? I'm thinking maybe we've known each other for a long time That's not possible. If we had known each other before Then I must have an impression of you Yeah, that's right. Oh, right. What were you doing out there? The door didn't close in such a hurry Oh. I just went downstairs to buy some daily necessities and vegetables. I didn't expect you to be back so soon. dish My dish Hey All right, then you live here Good night Good night To express my apologies for yesterday. I decided to go out early and buy you pants Breakfast is ready Put it in the kitchen Remember to get up and eat Boss Pei I am Su Mu I just saw Miss Song go out. Come on in. Boss Pei, you were very intense last night I see you. I'm just too busy recently. Taizong This is screened by Jianghai Group. A few small processing plants of good quality Which one do you think we are going to inspect today? Just this little white, you let Never mind. I will go myself Liu Li By the way, I'm late for work It should be here soon. Someone has been sent to pick it up. Okay, you're going to let someone pick it up Go to the hospital first Yes What cousin asked you to take me directly to the hospital? Hey, that's what Assistant Su said. He was in such a hurry to get me back Don't receive me in person Boss Pei seems to have gone to inspect Xing Peisheng Really personal Never mind. You go back first Give the address of that hospital Tell me the name of the person who needs to be healed I can go by myself Hey, hey, hey. This is what Boss Pei ordered me to send to you. Don't worry, I'll explain it to my cousin. Don't blame you. Li Feng Miss Snow What about Ache? Didn't he come? Ah. My cousin, he might be a little busy Hey, but Miss Xue Don't worry. You will definitely meet again Lin Feng, do you think Ache will forgive me? Your aunt and uncle were in a car accident What about Jiahai Group? We had an economic meltdown, and we almost went bankrupt. You want to use a better future as an excuse at this time Resolutely broke up with my cousin Choose to go abroad I must be feeling a little bad Back then, Zhong Jiaming threatened me with my mother's life I also had to Plus I was diagnosed with cancer So I don't want to drag down A Che Cai Oh, it's all in the past Don't think too much. Haven't my cousins been married all these years? I believe as long as you apologize well There is still a chance OK Then I'll go to the hospital with you. Since it is the person he specially entrusted Then he will be there, right? It's okay to go Hello Pardon me? Jianghai Group is coming to visit our Zhixin factory Ok hold on first I'll go over now. Let's talk to the foil first Pei Chao, I have something to deal with I'll be back later. Oops. This touch of porcelain is too unprofessional Hey, this little girl? I fell over. Why don't you give me a hand? I told you Who would be willing to help her if they didn't know her identity Moral kidnapping Excuse me. I have no morals. Ah! I told you She doesn't look like a good woman Not worthy of my grandson at all Bah It's my turn. grandma Ahhh That grandmother can't play with fire. Is something really wrong? Ah! Who are you and what do you want? Can't you see? If you don't want to die, get out Why don't you shave him? that How about that? Can't you understand human language? Anyway, my knife is going to see blood Better to replace him Don't look for me I don't want to kick him. I'm leaving now! Old woman, although I want to be rich and prosperous But I don't want to die yet. Let him go and I'll do it for him The teacher ordered it. Take your props and go Find me later White is in uniform Turns out it's all acting Wen'an You don't have to struggle anymore We, Boss Pei, already know everything about you Don't try to deceive the old lady again All right. Go Let him go and I'll do it for him Sure enough, people still need to do more good deeds This grandma is really unlucky to encounter this kind of thing You come for him You're doing it because you want to get rich. Or take hostages and run for their lives Why don't you kidnap me? This grandmother is too old In case during the process of being held hostage by you Grandma has a bad heart What should I do if I am scared to death by you? It's not worth the cost. Do not come OK I will not go I'm going to put what I have on the ground. Look how sincere I am Kidnap me I am young and in good health And my family has a lot of money. I have a factory. Million and 800 thousand is not a problem Okay, there are people who are not afraid of death Since you are going to replace him Then I will fulfill you Come by yourself Girl, we are not relatives Don't do this for me No. Take care of me Ah! Ah ah grandma Go away. You don't have to pretend to fall and touch porcelain in the future Oh, what can we do about it? This Grandma, go back You can't let me do it for you in vain, can you? Don't move, I'm from the law enforcement team Don't move, we're from the law enforcement team Ah! Tell you to pick up something Yes This lady Thank you for your courage Leave it to us Let's go And so forth. You said you were from the law enforcement team Which district are you from? What is the law enforcement number? We We are from this district But we're new here. No law enforcement number has been assigned yet Oh. Sure enough, it's a toy gun. Please before you act Understand and understand common sense I'm really stupid I can't see you're a gang Ahhhhhh Your titanium handcuffs are not bad The law enforcement team will come in a while I have something else to do No more company Your surname is Bai I will call you Grandma instead. Grandma, the law enforcement team will be here soon You see you are waiting for them to pick you up. Or use my phone to call your family I just fell Why don't you help me? It's not that I don't want to But your acting is so bad Normal people can tell that you are acting Really? My acting is that bad? Yes! And you see that your clothes are very cheap. But it looks brand new. And it's neat. And your hands don't have scissors either. At first glance, it's not a real scavenger old lady Even if someone comes to help you I also think that person has ulterior motives for you It seems that Guoan is indeed as Zhe said You're lying to me. Then I'll ask you again Then you know I'm acting Then why did you save me? Although you just touched the porcelain wrong But I can't just watch death happen. And you are a disadvantaged group I used to be in the law enforcement team Saving lives is our duty Well, thank you! You're welcome. Then you can wait here. I'll go first when the law enforcement team comes Hey no I'm coming with you. Why are you following me? Hey My son and daughter-in-law died in a car accident What about this grandson? He is not filial to me Alone Then since you saved me You are responsible for me. grandma It doesn't count like that, does it? Hello Factory manager, come quickly I came to our factory for inspection this time. But the president of Jianghai Group I've been waiting for half an hour. If you don't come again People are gone I'll be right there. Grandma, I'm going to the factory now You see, I'll go with you. Forget it. Forget it. Then you can follow me if you want. Oh girl You walk slowly I couldn't keep up. Come on up I carry you That's not good. If you don't come up, I'll leave. Great. Okay. Thank you little girl Please wait. Our factory manager is really coming soon. Since your factory It's not coming yet. That must be There is no need to talk to us about other collaborations. Come on. Oops, why hasn't this come yet? What can we do about this? Here I come. Grandma and Song Yao La la la Am I that old? Dare you say You're dead. God, the old lady doesn't want to hide her identity, does she? Good boy, put grandma down. It seems that grandma has met someone I arranged Pei Che, why are you here? Hey factory manager You actually know the president of Jianghai Group You are so kind. you Who do you say he is? This is the CEO of Jianghai Group I am the assistant to the president of Jianghai Group My assistant? Assistant to the Assistant to the President of Jianghai Group Ah! Yeah, he was my assistant. I am the assistant to the president of Jianghai Group My name is Su Mu Hey, this can You just said clearly Is he the president of Jianghai Group? When was I wrong? You must have misheard you Brother Zhao, are you sure they are really from Jianghai Group? OK I have always been in touch with this assistant Su He must be from Jianghai Group As for this one He himself said that he was the president of Jianghai Group What to do? What to do? The identity of the president can't be hidden It seems that this stinky boy He probably doesn't want Xiao Song to know his true identity Shouldn't your company find someone casually outside? Deliberately said to frame the president of the group Let's act Oh, since you can see it all Then I have a showdown So I'm looking to play the president specifically Play the president of Jianghai Group Then why is it happening? You also know our Jianghai Group We place great emphasis on the production of these parts What about our president? Yeah. In order to prevent the batch of factories selected below cheat So this is the last resort Specially looking for someone to play the president If he takes it so seriously Why himself Don't you come in person? That's because because Because our CEO is old. Still sick It was inconvenient for him to come in person What else does he have? He gave birth to him his body Hemorrhoids? Grandma, are you alright? Grandma is alright I just think The president of Jianghai Group is very kind The disease also told the subordinates Yes, yes, our president is very kind. Hahaha Then I have one last question. How did you happen to find Patcher? Let's help you act Oh. I took the initiative to find them. I have no job and no income I was afraid that one day you would be unhappy and sweep me out of the house Thinking about finding a job I said I'd take care of you How could I possibly kick you out of the house? unreliable Yang Yang, you are so outstanding Is it not anymore? You are also very good No no no wait wait a minute Why am I getting more confused the more I hear this? Factory manager, you are with him Oh, I forgot to introduce you. I'm married! This is my marriage partner, Patcher. marriage partner When did you get married, factory manager? Just these two days Does the old factory manager know? I haven't had time to tell my grandpa about it yet Just say it. The old factory manager kept saying Want to make the two of us together? No, you look 40 years old, don't you? I'm a little anxious I'm not even 30. Is he in a hurry? Our factory manager also said I've always wanted to find a son-in-law who knows the basics for the factory manager It doesn't matter if the son-in-law comes to the door. As long as someone else is wealthy I am afraid that our factory manager will be bullied. You know what? Not all wealthy families bully people Yes, our president's family is very good. What do you think? If the head of the household is like this gentleman The family at home is like this grandmother Do you still need to be afraid of this? No matter how good it is, not an ordinary family like ours can be high accessible You have no idea how many families there are that don't belong to the right household Because this combination is making a mess Many of them have caused trouble to our law enforcement bureau Again It's impossible for Pei Che and grandma to really be wealthy. They can't pretend to be poor to lie to me, can they? Yeah, yeah, I'm just a normal old lady, yeah. Of course it's impossible to know That's what I'm saying. Oh girl Then you are willing to find a poor boy to live your life Not all poor boys are bad I think Pei Shuo is pretty good Beautiful, gentle and self-motivated My grandfather would have loved it Since the identity has been figured out, ha. Assistant Su, let's continue to talk about cooperation Ah! Uh, no need to visit I think your factory is pretty good. Just sign the contract Just sign the contract. Why is Deputy Factory Manager Zhao unwilling? Of course I would. Assistant Su, thank you so much. Thank you Assistant Su Pardon me? Jianghai Group is going to cooperate with the executive and sub-factory. Yes! I heard it with my own ears Look, I still have photos. Son Is this really from Jianghai Group? Could it be that dead girl? I deliberately found someone to act This should not be this person. I saw him on TV. It's the assistant to the president of Jianghai Group Isn't this that stinky girl's door-to-door son-in-law? What is he doing here? Oh, right. I remember now. He seems to be the president of some Jianghai Group President of Jianghai Group Are you sure he is the president of Jianghai Group? Uh no no no I'm really not sure. You just said he is the president of Jianghai Group Now he says he's not sure who he is That's what his assistant said. Said he was the president of Jianghai Group After Song Yao came, he said that he was an invited actor. Now I can't tell the difference. Is he gone? Hey Xiaojie Check it with your phone. Let's see what the president of Jianghai Group looks like Right, right. Hey, there is no photo of the president on this one. Then take a look again What is the name of the president of Jianghai Group? This is only 8 years ago, the president was named Pei Hai Not now. Pei Hai Peiche Pecher Could it be Song Yao's door-to-door son-in-law? Is he the president of Jiahai Group? That's impossible. President of the dignified Jianghai Group How could you possibly like that stinky girl? Jianghai Group In our Linchuan City, it is one of the largest enterprises Big shot like the CEO How to get in touch with little people like us Let alone married Anyway. What is certain now is There is something strange about the identity of Song Yao's door-to-door son-in-law Your mom is right We can focus on the identity of this Patcher Don't worry, leave this to me I promise to give his ancestors eight generations It's all clear Especially check Is it Song Yao's door-to-door son-in-law? Yes, as long as you find out This Pei Che is not Song Yao's door-to-door son-in-law No matter whether he is an ordinary person or a CEO He has no right to interfere in our family's affairs We can inherit the factory logically Uh, so what's our plan? Wait a minute I thought I could do something with the product Create a little trouble Let that stinky girl retreat I didn't expect her to sign a contract with Jianghai Group Educated youth processing factory After all, it will be my industry from now on It is also beneficial to cooperate with Jianghai Group now Let's put the plan on hold Ahhh yeah Don't worry, Chen Er. When our family gets the inheritance of the factory I will definitely promote you to be the deputy factory manager Ha ha. Thank you Uncle Song Oh, no. It should be thank you, Factory Manager Song, hehe. Sit here and have a nice cooperation. Oops, my hand is cramping. I won't hold it anymore Happy cooperation Happy cooperation Well then, Pei Shao Send Assistant Su back quickly I think it's getting dark. Ah no no I can drive myself back How can that work? The chauffeur is your assistant Why do I have rice in my head? The four words Tiangang His task for today has been completed You can leave work early. Shouldn't your work be the end of the day? No, definitely not. Just Assistant Su is more sympathetic to his subordinates You told me before you went to work Say to finish the work ahead of schedule So I can get off work earlier? Then you can still go to work in Jianghai Group tomorrow. Yes, of course. Since he was hired as an assistant It won't go back on its word It's okay, thank you, Assistant Su OK Thank you Assistant Su Ah, that's right. Assistant Su, get your car keys Ah! That's right. Isn't Miss Song going to take this girlfriend home? Why don't I send her? It just so happens that I can drive her I won't let you send it I want to be with Xiao Song It's night. I still want to live with Xiao Song Hey this grandma I can understand. I can understand how you like my wife. But our family is really small Did you not entertain you well? Please hurry back with Assistant Su. Humph No. Hey Old lady, this is your fault. The newlyweds are in love What were you doing in the past? Just go home. Yes, please go back. An old age grandma I remember this grandmother saying She has an unfilial grandson Are you afraid of going back alone? Unfilial grandson Yes, I do have an unfilial grandson She still doesn't listen to me How about this? Grandma, I'll go over when I have time to see if you're okay How about you young people? Just like to deceive us old ladies Then I'll see you every day, okay? Really? I promise. Don't we all have contact information? If you have anything to do, just be direct Just give me a call Okay, okay, grandma comes to see grandma every day? Ok ok By the way, grandma also gave you a gift This is the Pei family heirloom It seems that grandma really recognizes Song Yao Grandma, put it on for you. Oh grandma I won't go into that. Too expensive What is a bracelet? You saved my life today, huh? Since it is grandma's intention Just take it Uh, Miss Song As the saying goes, saving a life is better than building a seventh-level budur Factory manager, this is the old lady thanking you. Just take it All right, then I'll take it. Thank you grandma hahaha Ok ok ok Bring it on. That's right. If that brat dares to bully you Tell grandma Grandma is angry with you? Grandma, don't worry. Again He can't beat Hahaha grandma saw it His mouth is swollen Hey this grandma It's a family matter Don't worry about it. Go back now. It's gone In fact, this grandmother is also quite pitiful Her son and daughter-in-law were in a car accident and left Only her unfilial child was left I guess I didn't accompany him well He just touched porcelain Maybe it's to get someone's attention. It's really hateful, there must be something pitiful about people. You are not afraid that he is here to deceive you. What do I have to deceive? I have nothing but this place Unless grandma wants me to be his granddaughter-in-law That's quite possible. But don't worry, Pecher I won't be abducted easily Hey Hey, hey, hey. You want to be mushy Go home There's a single dog here Hmm that that Aren't there still some details to be hammered out in the contract? Let's go to the office and talk Hey, I just happened to pick up a phone call You go first OK Let's go Hello brother When are you coming to the hospital? I might not make it today Ah! But it's here, right? Why is that? Okay, I have something to deal with here. Oh, right. How is the disease you saw last time? You mean that grandpa? Well, his condition is a bit tricky But there are solutions. I need to discuss it with my teacher. I can give you an answer then. How long will it take? About 3-5 days Because his condition has not been very stable I gave him a different medicine The surgery wouldn't be done for another week. So don't worry. Hey cousin Who is he to you? should It should be my grandfather Grandpa Could it be my grandfather? Hey, don't guess I'll cook a meal in two days. Well, let me introduce you Really, what can't be said? What's the matter? Oh. Actually, there's something I've been meaning to tell you snow What blood? Ah. blood The patient needs to prepare blood before surgery Your grandfather's blood type is B Okay, I'll check with the hospital in advance Nothing much happened. I hang up first Isn't it so ruthless? Throw it away when you run out No. He hasn't used it up yet. Ah! By the way, Miss Xu Why didn't you tell your cousin you were back just now? Blame fake cancer cases abroad Suddenly, there was a problem during the express transportation. No case was received. Make sure it's foolproof Of course I can't see compensation immediately. I just don't feel ready to meet him I'm afraid that Zhe won't forgive me It won't happen. Between you two? Just a misunderstanding My cousin will forgive you See you again Maybe I'll tell him when I'm ready. Don't talk about this Xiaofeng, I want you to do me one more favor Xiaojie, you said as long as I can help I will definitely help I want you to take me to meet someone Arrived Are the wings really hard? My eldest grandson But with a granddaughter-in-law, she didn't go home early I live here alone. Isn't that why you didn't like to deliver wine before? grandma Oh, isn't this grandma's eldest grandson Xiaofeng? Why are you back? Let me see if I've lost weight. Hahaha It's not because of my cousin He has to let me go back to China to treat some patient for him What about his patient? Is it one of his grandfathers? grandma You're not going to find me a new grandfather, are you? You dead child What nonsense are you talking about, your grandmother? Cousin didn't tell me To get Archer to call him Grandpa That must be Xiao Song's grandfather I want to tell This brat I'm afraid he will be arguing to see Xiao Song today Archer's identity cannot be hidden Who do you care? As long as he's important to your cousin Why didn't I even tell you? You you Hey Assistant Su What are you doing here? Cousin, what is he busy with? Why didn't you follow? What's that? Boss Pei asked me to confirm that the old lady was delivered home safely Now I have confirmed I'll go back to find Boss Pei first This grandson Gone so fast Come on, grandma, let's go home Go home hahaha Grandma I came to see you today There's someone else I want you to meet Who? Zhong Xueyao You are not welcome in our house. Who let you come? Go out grandma What happened 8 years ago was a misunderstanding Please listen to me explain I listen to your explanation Go out go out No, no, you sit first Don't get excited In fact, Miss didn't leave her cousin on purpose 8 years ago but Still got cancer Cancer is grandma I left because of cancer I didn't mean to leave Ah Cheng on purpose Since you have cancer Why didn't you tell Archer? Ah, you know what? He didn't even graduate from college. Parents were in a car accident The company has fallen into Crisis haha You are still greedy for vanity Left him. You've known him for eight years How did he get here? Ah! I know I know Grandma, but Archer was already under a lot of pressure at that time I don't want to be a burden to him anymore And you know the situation in our family at that time. My father threatened me with my mother's life Yes, I have to go abroad. Otherwise, I won't treat my mother I had to. Grandma what are you doing How good my relationship with Chi has been in the past three years You know it. If it weren't for this We were already married grandma I don't ask you to forgive me now Just give me another chance. Let me make up for you and Ah Cheng, okay? Grandma, please give Miss Xu a chance What you said is true. It's all true. Grandma, I thought I was going to get better I didn't expect to recover when I was abroad It's just that my mom passed away two days ago I'm going back to China this time. I also want to bring her ashes back Also, I want you and Ah Chun to accompany the crime Miss is so poor Or give her a chance So you didn't do anything wrong. You should always know that things have changed Things are different, right? This Archer He can't be waiting for you all the time. What do you mean? Grandma, are you saying that Archer is in love with someone else? That's not possible. I've been following his news for years If he falls in love with someone else I will definitely know Grandma, right? Grandma my cousin I haven't heard of any other woman in years Hey, there is a saying that Ning demolishes ten temples Don't you want to break up a marriage? Ningxia ten temples Don't break a marriage But what should this little Song do? I don't ask you to forgive me now But I hope you can not Can you refuse me to see you? So does Archer know you're back? He doesn't know yet. I want to wait two days. Find a suitable opportunity to tell him again Just two more days. Give Archer and Song more time together Maybe by then He will have the right decision in his heart Well, since it's about you young people I'm not getting involved anymore. How to choose Then look at the car OK Thank you, Grandma. Thank you, Grandma. Miss I'll send it to you, no need. I can take a taxi myself You stay here with grandma I'm leaving now. Hello, what's the matter with medical record number 7? How could there be a problem during transportation? Oh, don't worry. The medical record is missing a chapter It has been recovered. Wait for tomorrow. See you a new one. How can I not be in a hurry? Did you know that I almost saw him today? My dear wife You're in such a hurry to meet your old lover It really made my husband a little jealous But you are so cruel 8 years ago, Pecher was down and out You can also leave him and come home Eight years later? He has developed You can also weave all kinds of reasons Go back to him with peace of mind Qin Hao, what do you mean? I did all this for you, didn't I? If it's not your company that has a problem Need funds Where do I need to come back to find him? Okay, okay, okay, I was wrong. What about Chenchen? Come on, son, say hi to your mother Mom, I miss you. When will you be back? Good morning I'll go back to you when mom is done, okay? OK, let's play. Don't worry, wife. I will wait for you at home with my son This Qinghe will only threaten me with my son Pecher For my son I can only feel sorry for you once more. Ah! It turns out that being a factory manager is so hard There are still so many files Wait I have to deal with it. You don't know that my grandpa is tired, do you? I'm not going to see grandpa today Hey, didn't you find a nurse? Besides, I have already contacted Dr. Lu Are you serious? You have contacted Dr. Lu. OK It just so happened that Dr. Lu happened to be on a business trip in Linchuan City Dr. Lu has left the political office Then the doctor told me about my grandfather's illness. Grandpa will have surgery in a week Really? Great, my grandpa is saved Thank you for staying with me. Hello I'm sorry. I'm so excited. Are you all right? Manager Song You really don't know anything about your power, do you? Nope. I'm just so excited. But luckily your pants didn't rip this time Hey Where are the pants I bought for you? Didn't I say Don't buy it. How can that work? I should pay you if I broke your pants But even I don't know where to put it Well, next time I will accompany you to buy it. Good idea. Then it's settled. Your clothes were given to you by Assistant Su, right? Don't you have to return it to him? Ah, that's right. He said he had given it to me. This is mine. Assistant Su is really a nice person. You must follow him and work hard. But if you're not happy at work You go home Factory Manager Song raises you Although I don't seem that reliable But I really want to live with you i I also want to live with you sincerely It's getting late. I'm going to take a shower. Rest early You are That foil Or you tonight Sleep in my room Song Ya Do you know what you're saying? Of course I know what I'm talking about. Are we husband and wife? Sleep together sooner or later Just go to bed earlier What does it matter if you go to bed later? This is the one you mentioned. No no I regretted it. I take back what I just said You're done regretting it I haven't showered yet This is what you said. Ah! Ah no I don't want it anymore. I regretted it. I take back what I just said I regret it now Hey, I haven't taken a shower yet. I will go to the hospital to see my grandfather later. Then go to the factory again Go to work OK, then you pay attention to safety OK See you. You be careful Dad? Boss Pei Wake up Wake up There really is something wrong with this Peicher Hello President Hey, hey, hey. What are you doing? I'm going to find someone Hey, the company has regulations. This elevator only allows company executives to sit Please go to the ordinary elevator to take a ride. You know who I am. How dare you stop me I'm that guy's brother-in-law You are Su's assistant brother-in-law The one next to it Haha, would you rather say that you are Su's assistant brother-in-law? Do you know who that is next to you? Who is that? He is the president of our Jianghai Group He is the president of your Jianghai Group. Of course, yeah. How come we haven't seen him on TV? Our president is too low-key. Basically don't appear in public, but But what? Why am I telling you this? You're not here to inquire about company secrets, are you? No, definitely not. I really came to see my brother-in-law You asked me to come back Our CEO is not even married How could it be your brother-in-law? Hurry up or I'll call security You wait. Xiaojie, what you said is true Did you really hear with your own ears what the people from Jianghai Group said? Patcher is the CEO Mom, how many times have I told you back and forth? It's true. My darling This Song Yao actually found a president to be her husband What can we do about this? What about what? What to do Pei Che is the president of Jianghai Group What about the president? This just goes to show that It is absolutely impossible that he is Song Yao's door-to-door son-in-law So if we do inherit the processing plant Then will Pei Che do it for that Song Yao? Go out and ruin our reputation Bring it down The big deal is that we sold the factory for hundreds of thousands. I think my dad's right. Jianghai Group obviously did not know the news of Pei Che's marriage He might regard Song Yao as his pastime plaything You might not be angry with him, right? Then let's debunk that Song Yao now Hey, no hurry. Anyway, the second uncle is going to die soon We have to invite the patriarch first Only in this way can the matter be solved completely Grandpa, let me tell you Your granddaughter, I married myself off When you wake up I will bring your grandson-in-law to see you. Grandpa You must wake up soon! It's still early. Just in time to see the grandma surnamed Bai yesterday grandma How did it go? This is the Rubik's Cube I specially customized for you. hum comfortable Hmm, phone Grandma, don't move I'll get it for you. Who? Komatsu OK Who is this Komatsu? Hahaha. Komatsu Grandma, are you at home? I'll go find you now. Haha, ouch. At home, you can come OK, then you send the address to my phone. Okay, okay, grandma is waiting for you. Hahahaha oops Grandma, who is this little Song? Who is this Komatsu? He is one of my recent friends New Year's Eve grandma When did you have this hobby of making friends? I suddenly want to pay Hey you brat Why are you asking so many questions? Hurry up Enter this address for him and send it to Xiao Song. No. 324, Old City Lane, Chaoyun Road Oh hahaha Oh, dear. Ok grandma The property at this address doesn't seem to be ours, does it? Sounds a bit out of the way. I bought it myself. Why did you buy a house? Adult business Why do children ask so much? Humph I'm going to change clothes and go out. Go about your own business What kind of New Year's Eve is it? Let grandma buy a house and change clothes again Could it be some kind of fraud group? No, I have to go with him Hello teacher What! You came up with a new creative solution Ok ok ok My current information will be over soon. Oops, why did these two things suddenly collide? Never mind. Let Miss Xu go Miss Grandma is behaving a little differently today I suspect she may have been deceived. I'll send you the address later. Go take a look for me If you have any questions, please send me a message. No. 324 So this is it. grandma Are you at home? I am Song Yao. grandma Here it comes. Oh, it's Xiao Song. Look at you kid Coming soon What are you doing with all that stuff? Put it down Oh grandma How tidy your house is! Like never lived I usually live alone This grandson doesn't come back often Cleaning a little hard haha What is this? Oops yeah That's the photo I'm going to show Xiao Guo Forgot to put it away Haha, it's just a photo. Hahaha, nothing to see. Haha grandma Is that your grandson in this photo? I'm already married. Are you afraid that I will kidnap your grandson away? No, it won't. Are you really my granddaughter-in-law? Then I'm not going to die of joy. Hahaha, but I just saw a little bit of it. Is this your grandson in white? So handsome It's a pity I didn't see another one. It's better not to see clearly Haha, what did you say? It's okay. It's okay. That's not my grandson. It doesn't matter if you can't see clearly Ha ha. Grandma, are you dating someone else? No, then you sit first I'll take a look. You are you are Miss Xue You are Xiao Song Ah, who's here? grandma It's me, why is he here? Grandma, this is Sister Xueyao So you know Xueyao Sister, you You know each other? You know me? How could I not know you? You funded me 8 years ago I still have your photo at home Are you mistaken? I've never sponsored anybody. It's you on the sponsor's information. Really? Maybe I forgot. grandma How did you find this place? It was Lin Feng who said let me come and see you. Say you are afraid that you will be deceived. What will happen to me? The brat will be talking nonsense there Yes, Miss Snow You don't have to worry, I'll lie to grandma. I used to be on the law enforcement team It doesn't break the law. Yeah, I told him Miss Song and I are old friends Are you okay? Ah! Since it's alright, let's go Oh grandma Didn't we agree yesterday? You won't refuse me to see you again Oh, didn't you see that I have guests here? Is it inconvenient? You go first It doesn't matter. grandma Sister Cher is here, oops. What does the little girl know? grandma This is the ginseng I bought for you. And bird's nest It's all good supplements After you eat it Good for the body Grandma, Sister Xueyao is so kind to you. So how did you meet? Ah, I think she's my grandson's ex-girlfriend. Yes, I'm the ex-girlfriend of grandma's grandson There were some misunderstandings with grandma before original Sister Xueyao turned out to be the ex-girlfriend of grandma sleeping with grandson? So now the misunderstanding is cleared up Sort of. Grandma has forgiven me. Right, Grandma? Grandma, now that the misunderstanding has been solved Just be nice to Sister Cher Little Song, this fool, was really sold by others Still counting money for others Okay, okay. Come on, sit down grandma I see that you have such a good relationship with this Miss Song. So how did you meet? It was yesterday that grandma was in danger Saved by me I heard my grandmother say that she Often alone at home I come to see her every day That's very kind of you. Grandma, I will come to see you every day from now on Ok? What's this called? That grandma Sister Cher, let's talk first. I'll go first Mr. Yang, please walk slowly Grandma, I'll take him off Song Yao Sister Cher I hope you don't come looking for grandma again in the future May I ask why? After all, I will accompany my grandmother in the future Besides, there's an outsider at home It's inconvenient for you to come. Sister Xueyao Are you afraid that I will run into grandma's grandson? Don't worry, I'm married. You are married? Yes, I already have a husband And we have a good relationship Am I overthinking it? grandma Do you really just treat her as an ordinary junior? How about this? Miss Snow We add WeChat. When I come in the future, I will first ask if it is convenient for you to come. WeChat doesn't need you. Why is this bracelet in your hand? This was given to me by my grandmother Grandma gave it to you Why did grandma give you this bracelet? Do you know This is Xiao Song who saved my life I want to send Can't you? But grandma, this bracelet is Why do I have to ask your consent for what I give me? No grandma I didn't mean that Komatsu, go to work I'll explain it to him. Miss grandma didn't mean that It's true that this bracelet is too expensive. No matter how expensive it is, it is just a bracelet. I'll wear it for you. And? Come whenever you want next time No one's consent is required. OK Then grandma, I'll go first All right, bye bye. Goodbye child Good idea. But grandma I heard the car say This bracelet is a family heirloom of the Pei family It is to be passed on to the Pei family's daughter-in-law How could you give it to an outsider so easily? Xiao Song saved me Let alone a family heirloom No matter how important the Pei family is, I am willing to give it to him. What's more, this little Song is not an outsider Not an outsider Grandma, what do you mean? Anyway, this matter is up to me You don't have to worry about it. Xiao Song now They still don't know who I am It's all right. Don't come here casually So as not to reveal the truth It's all right. Just go back grandma Although I have only known Xiao Song for two days But why am I so biased towards this child? Hey Bad fate Another family heirloom Identity concealment again There is definitely something wrong with this Song Yao. Hello Detective Liu I want you to help me track down someone No. It's alright It's okay, what are you doing? You startled me. Usually so vigilant Why didn't I notice that I was so close to you today? have something on your mind Nothing. What do you say if you are hated? Factory Manager Song, who is not afraid of the ground today And the fear of being hated one day No, it's that person. He helped me once. I don't want him to hate me. The people you met today OK He should be from the factory No one is perfect Not everyone likes him But I'm still not happy In that case, he helped you once. Then you should also find a chance to help him once. Since you two don't owe each other You don't have to worry about gains and losses Yeah, if I ever see him again I can ask him if he needs my help. Really can't I will return the money to Miss Xue Pecher How are you so smart? How could this be? Lin Zhi is actually married And the object is actually Song Yao No. No, I haven't got a cancer case yet. It's not time to see him yet But I can't just sit back and wait Factory manager, someone is looking for you outside Sister Xueyao Don't be surprised. I came here specifically to find you today You said I was 8 years old I funded you before, right? Yes! You funded our family 200,000 If you need it now I'll transfer it to you now. No need for money I just need you to do one thing for me. So what's up? Let's add WeChat first. I'll tell you later. Miss Zhou, thank you for your courier. It's finally here. Detective Liu Where is Song Yao now? I'm in the hospital. Is there any car on the way to the hospital? Yaoyao Doctor How is Deputy Chief Zhao? Grandpa has been in the operating room for 6 hours now Isn't the surgery two days later? Why is it suddenly advanced? Lu Linfeng, this brat Why didn't you tell me such a big thing? I heard that Dr. Liu said it was a temporary notice from Dr. Lu Dr. Liu didn't know either It's okay, maybe his teacher changed the plan for him. Don't worry. This Lu Linfeng still has two brushes Speaking of which, I haven't seen Dr. Lu yet I'll see him then. Be sure to thank him in person That's not a good way to thank people I just came in a hurry today. I didn't prepare anything. Well, why don't we go and buy them now? I see people giving red envelopes directly on TV. Why don't we prepare a big red envelope? But will it be too late to withdraw cash now? Go go go You scan the code directly Are you trying to ruin Dr. Lu's career? Now the country prohibits giving red envelopes to doctors. How can I thank him? Don't worry. What about later? You have another identity, thank him well Um, what identity? OK What identity? Come out soon Grandpa grandpa The doctor's surgery was a great success The patient will be awake in about half an hour. Great thanks doctor Thank you doctor You don't need to thank me. Thank you, Dr. Lu Dr. Lu, why didn't he come out? Dr. Lu is still doing it inside The record should be out soon. You can wait here. I push the patient into the ward first OK Commander, I'll go with the doctors You and Xiaobai are at home waiting for Mr. Lu to come out Thank you very much. OK I don't know when Dr. Lu will come out I'm becoming more and more curious about him. Yaoyao Actually I have something to tell you OK In fact, Lu Linfeng He's mine. Song Yao You really made it easy for us to find you. Brother-in-law is also here Just in time What are you doing here? Of course I'm here to visit my uncle Take back what belongs to our family by the way I made it very clear last time. Don't even think about my grandpa's property Forget it. I'd like to see how you think about it Song Yao That's how your grandfather taught you to talk to your own people What's more, he's also your cousin These words again What's wrong with cousin Cousin, he is better than me Of course. See which woman in the group is like you Which one is not respectful to their own brother? It's just like him that should be celebrated as a dragon Like him, Chen Tang should celebrate dragons So shall I knock one for you now? I just don't get it. Obviously all from the same era How can you be so good? How can you say such a thing? I think it's better to give these elders a number Oh, I heard. This hospital treats brain injuries for a while Team leader, listen Please listen Song Yao and his son-in-law That's how you talk to your elders That is. He doesn't even care about you, patriarch It's Song Yang For the sake of your lack of parenting I won't bother with you for now You should know why I'm here today I'll say it again. My grandfather's things were originally left for me Want me to give it to someone else Don't even think about it. What is Jean? My father was originally the first heir to the second uncle Oh, the state succession law can stipulate The order of the first heir Should be spouse, children, parents Children of the decedent In the case of death before the decedent The immediate family of the descendants of the decedent's children Or serum substitution This is still without grandpa making a will May I ask which of the above relationships are you guys? We act according to the rules of the clan Stop talking about these useless things Exactly. Since you follow the rules of the clan Yaoyao is also grandpa's first heir What's the problem? That I have a door-to-door son-in-law To inherit my grandfather's incense Here it comes I'm waiting for your door-to-door son-in-law. What a joke! What do you have to prove that he is your door-to-door son-in-law? How can you prove that he is not my door-to-door son-in-law? Of course I know. He's not the ordinary person you said at all He is the president of Jianghai Group President of Jianghai Group You are for the property You can really say anything You probably don't know it yet Our Zhixin Processing Factory It has cooperated with Jianghai Group. If Pei Che is really the president of Jianghai Group Then how could the people from Jianghai Group not recognize it? Song Yao, Song Yao I should say you are innocent Or should I say you're stupid? Didn't you think Was he always acting in front of you? No, I believe in Pei Cheng He will never I'll go. Why are there so many people? You are all family members of Song Jianguo You are the grandson of that white grandma Where did grandma come from Dead early Oh, but I have a grandmother named Bai. Cousin, what are you doing here? What do you call him cousin? Well, he's my cousin We are cousins I don't call him cousin Lin Feng What's up? Can't you say it? Oh, cousin of the president of Jianghai Group Then you should be Lu Mingfeng from the Lu family in Jiangcheng, right? How about Su Ying Now you believe what I'm saying is true Pecher Didn't you tell me about Dr. Lu before? Is he just a doctor who treated your relatives? Why did he call you cousin? Cousin, what the hell is going on, shut up Pei Chen You're not lying to me. What they say is not true You are not the president of Jianghai Group Right? Don't worry. As long as you say no Even if they all correct you I wouldn't believe it. Let me explain. It's not like that, in fact, I This So as they say You've been lying to me. I told you. What I hate most is cheating. I didn't mean to lie to you. I was going to tell you today So you mean As long as you tell me this That's not cheating, is it? Let me see. What else are you lying to me about? You and Grandma Bai already know each other Right? You and Grandma Bai are teaming up to lie to me Right? Sorry. Pecher Isn't it fun to lie to me? The marriage I have always been true to In your eyes But it's just a one-sided scam And so on. Marriage What marriage? I'm getting married. She's my wife. What about Miss Xu? Zhu Xueyao What Xueyao What nonsense are you talking about? Lu Linfeng In fact, Sister Xueyao had difficulties 8 years ago She has been back home for several days I just haven't been able to come to see you He also asked me to keep it a secret from Nan Nan original You are even hiding from me about knowing Zhong Xueyao So You are Grandma Bai's grandson Is Zhong Xueyao your ex-girlfriend? Pecher You've been treating me like a fool to deceive Patcher Okay, okay. What's up? We don't have time to see what you guys are doing Since he's not your door-to-door son-in-law Song Yao should have returned the property to us, right? Mainly the processing plant. Even if I'm not Song Yao's door-to-door son-in-law If you dare to rob something I immediately stopped all cooperation with Zhixin Factory So what? The big deal is that we sell the factory Factory Manager captain The old man is about to wake up Why did the old man wake up? You woke up no matter what you said Right Another woman said you were fluffy Hey captain captain Hey Could the woman just mentioned be Miss Xu? Why is Miss Xu here? Miss Xu just sent me a message saying that she wants to see you. I'll tell you Miss Song's grandfather's secretary Hey cousin Hey. What's going on? Didn't you say that Song Jianguo saved him? Why did you suddenly wake up again? Could it be that Lu Linfeng saved the second uncle? That's not possible. How long has it been? Maybe it's a return to light Otherwise, let's go and see What do you think, team leader? Of course go see Otherwise, how did you get the property? Except for what you said, except for that processing plant All other things will be put into the Prime Minister's office. Don't worry, team leader. We will definitely do what we say To grandpa You can call me Xiao Zhong Grandpa Yao Yao, you are here Grandpa get to know Xiao Zhong is the kind-hearted person who has supported us before I know grandpa I met with Miss Snow Oh silly girl Why are you crying? Do you think grandpa is still fine? It's so nice of you to wake up Great, great. Yaoyao Yao Yao Che Che is me I am your Yaoyao Then you are still willing to call me Yaoyao Don't come here Yaoyao, I was just about to call you, not him. You don't have to explain it to me. Mr. Pei, from now on No matter who you call It had nothing to do with me. Why suddenly? It doesn't matter. You and Beckham are not We are nothing Brother Zhao Mr. Pei Miss Zhou And Dr. Lu Please go out I want to be alone with my grandpa for a while Hey, the factory manager The old factory manager, I will go out first Call me if you have anything Yo, isn't this Deputy Factory Manager Zhao? What would you do? Do you still want to kick the factory manager to the point of critical illness? Hurry up Don't think you are the second uncle The deputy director of the factory dares to speak to us like this See clearly With us came the patriarch of the Song family I didn't expect that. I'm sick and I can get the patriarch to come Jianguo, you are also an old man in the clan I care about you on behalf of our clan Miss Zhong and these two gentlemen Please go out first Let's take care of the family also me Ah Cheng Let's not disturb Miss Song and Grandpa Song I still have so much to tell you Unexpectedly, Pei Che really fell in love with Song Yao Still so deeply in love Pei Che, don't make me hate it more Let's go cooperate It's their family business after all. I'll wait for you outside. Don't beat around the bush Are you all here for my inheritance? Jianguo You see, you've been sick for a long time I heard Song Cheng say he asked the doctor last time Say you don't have long According to the rules of our group? After you die Your family property should be inherited by your son But your son is long gone So your estate has to go to your eldest nephew I don't have a son But I have a granddaughter I'm not going to give my stuff to anyone else I leave it to my granddaughter Yaoyao How can a woman inherit a family property? This is not in line with the rules of the clan. Jiang Guo, you dare to go against the whole clan this time Do it right I, Longlong, have only one granddaughter I don't leave it to him For whom? Yeah, I only have one grandfather My grandfather won't give it to me. Who? I don't think it's just my good uncle who wants it Coveting my grandfather's fortune Patriarch, you want it too Aren't you afraid of being famous in your clan by doing this? Patriarch, calm down My second uncle didn't mean that Please tell him again. Famous is famous Pardon me? If I say get rid of it, get rid of it. We don't want to be in the clan anymore Uncle, what nonsense are you talking about? If you are famous in the family And you're never coming back. Yeah, this guy? All pay attention to falling leaves returning to their roots If you are famous in the family After this, there will be no people even going to the grave Don't worry about it. In the future, I will have Yaoyao to visit my grave How can this daughter's family be qualified to go to the grave? Can't I make you restless? And you can't bury a piece with Auntie and the others? People are dead It's nothing more than a bubble of loess Where is it buried? It's not buried. I got sick. I see it clearly Nothing is as important as our Yaoyao. patriarch You can give our grandfather and grandson two other soldiers in my group, right? Song Jianguo You are unwilling to die Don't regret it. I'm afraid this will disappoint you. Dr. Lu said After this surgery So he says. My grandfather can live for ten or eight years without a problem It's not certain who will die first Woof Hurry up and find the director to find the shadow, hurry up uncle Please don't appear in front of my Master He in the future Doctor, doctor. Are you all right? Doctor doctor doctor What's the matter? We're doctors Our team leader fainted Please show me. Go to the hospital I'll take a look too Che Can we talk about it? Grandpa, you will be the ancestor of our family in the future I'll have a baby by then My child's child I will always remember your kindness I knew it! My granddaughter is the most filial Grandpa, you must live a long life Yes I want to live a long life. I want to see my Yaoyao get married and start a family Regenerate a little Yaoyao Grandpa Okay, let's not fight anymore. That kid just now is the son-in-law you are looking for, right? Grandpa, how do you know? When I was in a coma? I hear you whispering in my ear I heard it in a daze You tell grandpa Do you like him? I like it but grandpa lied to me I don't want to like him anymore. Grandpa, will you blame me? If you don't like it, you don't like it. My Yaoyao Then you should find the best Are you looking for the son-in-law of the Wenqu constellation in the sky? Grandpa is going up and pulling him down Make me Yaoyao's son-in-law How can it be so exaggerated? Grandpa, are you thirsty? I'll go get you a glass of water Ah Che, I really had no choice but to leave you You see Here's my cancer file. Che Liu Yao Sir? Please respect yourself. Yaoyao Archer Shall we start over? Zhou Xueyao, don't you understand? It's over between us Some misunderstandings are useless even if they are dug out again What I have now is only important Archer Please let me Let me explain. Mr. Pei, please stop calling me Yaoyao It was really you I just called I didn't call anyone else. So what about before? That's what you used to call Sister Xueyao, right? I and Zhong Xue, she is already in the past tense I only love you now I only have you in my heart Pei Che, don't you understand yet? I didn't even care that you went with her What do I care that you lied to me? Is not smart But I'm not stupid. There are many opportunities to confess to me But why are you? Why did you lie to me? If I say I I didn't expect it to end like this today. Do you believe it? So You can selfishly hide me ri Do you see me doing stupid things everywhere? Sorry. I was wrong. Can you give me another chance? No need. We didn't bother for long We Divorce I really want to live with you Spring breeze autumn rain A few apricot flowers have been sleeping on the pillow It's full of snow. Fallen leaves Yaoyao Pei Chen I will definitely make you fall in love with me again