Oh no, Microsoft added a new hardware requirement get out your pitchforks though, this is not old CPUs. Much older than the previous hardware a few years ago. So what is going on? Well, it Insider pre-release builds, there is indeed a you try to do an upgrade or run the upgrade tool support for this, it says &quot;This PC's processor what that's referring to is a CPU instruction I can go over a bit later, but basically it's like the hardware level. And it's actually a very and was added to pretty much every CPU starting requirement is you can't simply bypass it like on CPU generation. You can still do the bypass simply will not be able to boot regardless. It'll seemingly discovered this initially also posted require this CPU instruction. I'm not sure exactly it does seem at least that this is a true hardware being used in Windows, and is important enough the reason I and most other people seem to not is that obviously computers change over time, piece of hardware forever. And this is a very old in an instruction set called SSE4, that's and SIMD stands for Single Instruction, of CPU features that are incorporated into the CPU CPUs to integrate these features was the micro in 2008. And specifically in Intel, they call is that this was the first Intel Core CPU series. your CPU does support this. With AMD, this was which started in 2007. Now if you want to see for there are a couple of ways. One is to use the that and just go to the first CPU tab for Intel then look for SSE4.2. Or for AMD, you can look more official, you can use the CoreInfo tool that simply download that and run the command &quot;coreinfo for both AMD and Intel, it should say POPCNT should clue you in as well. But rest assured, if it without having to do any special workarounds, have to do a workaround, unless it's an extremely you won't have to worry about it. Now what exactly risk of sounding too technical, it simply counts word. And a word is simply a certain number which is what most of you, almost all of you what that means. So if you have a big 64-bit word then the population count would be 1. Apparently, weight&quot; in certain contexts. I did read through a this name, I'm so sorry. It's Vaibhav Sagar, and could. And they listed many possible use cases was cryptography and neural networks. And those Microsoft, as part of their previous new Windows That's the reason basically they supported was because they had certain cryptography features they're adding possibly even more cryptography require this feature. And the other one mentioning trying to push AI features, maybe that's also part in any case, remember, it does actually seem to be were using. So it's not like they're just making whatever reason, at this build going forward. Now, might be wondering what exactly that means. So of transistors, but it's not like they're just are arranged in very special ways physically that allow us to build computers. For example, create so-called &quot;logic gates&quot;, they're called, one will only activate if the first two are both and stuff using all those. And there's a whole those are more building blocks. And then you gates to create special instructions. And that or multiplication instruction, or one that is in some memory address, which is what this does. Minecraft and tried your hand at Redstone, if you I'm almost sure that you read about logic gates CPUs have many of these instructions built basically are put there to more efficiently do different features or instruction sets that have calculations and stuff like that. And sometimes, you can use other ones to &quot;emulate&quot; it, it's for example, a PS2 game on a computer, because you CPU architecture that has all the other features able to run it, it kind of sandboxes it in a way. read on Reddit, someone who said that they, I conhost.exe. And they had an interesting insight it and in some of the binaries they checked, the features that a CPU has, and will use different And he said that for at least one of them, it if it doesn't see that, takes another pathway or means that it doesn't necessarily guarantee that Windows wouldn't boot. And if I had to guess, these checks to use alternative methods for one add that check for one of them if Windows 11 truly it still wouldn't be able to boot without all the one of them does a check and has alternatives, and that it could be something unrelated just as with Windows 11. So he didn't check all of them, see about that. Or what's also possible is CPUs there might be other features that the alternative some might not be able to run Windows. Again, but just gives you some things to think about. In really change anything for 99.9% of people. And that old, then it probably wasn't running very want to install Linux or something. I would are you running it on a CPU that old? Or maybe like on Linux, and you don't care about be sure to give it a big giant thumbs up for the I try to make videos about twice a week, usually watching, the next video I'd recommend is where that you might want to consider changing depending I've gotten some good feedback about that one, right there you can click on. So thanks so much