Hello everyone, I'm Ly Tu Diep and wish you good health. Watch a relaxing video. I'm currently at the police station on suspicion of stealing my husband's family's land book. I hope you'll cooperate with us. I. Yes Where were you last day? Dear officer, I was on the side of the road. Since the day I was kicked out of my house, I have not returned there. Your mother-in-law said that you were the one who stole. Yes sir, I didn't do that after I was evicted I never went back to that house I remember the first time I came back I went with you to talk about the divorce and property division What do you have to prove that you are innocent? Yes sir, when I was on the side of the road there were many people walking around and met me . How many people are living in your house? Yes, there are 5 people, me, my mother-in-law, my husband and father-in-law, but my ex-husband has married another wife. When my husband's family kicked me out of the house, I didn't know anything about that family. Right now we don't have any evidence to convict you. You can go home... if you don't after 3 days. If there is any evidence, she will have to go to jail, thank the police. It's so difficult for me to come back here . With two wives, I don't know which one is stealing. Just take it slow and we'll investigate! I'm about to lose my real estate!! I drink a little and fight a lot, but I drink a little and stay like that all day. Dad is fed up with me. I'm worried. Where will I get the money to redeem the land? What to do if you don't have money? So, you're thinking that if you only sell the fields and then sell the Nuong, then sell the ducks so your parents don't have to worry, right? The police took Diep away, then the police took care of me, now just calm down and sell the land and the refrigerator, what's the point? Where has Linda gone? Don't see at home? He's gone out, you don't have to worry. I'm suspecting Linda of stealing, Mom!!! Mom, don't say that. Linda will be angry if she hears it. What is she angry about? Dad and mom came home from working in the fields. Opened the rice cooker. Linda didn't cook anything. I told him he wouldn't have to do anything , but if I couldn't take care of him, he wouldn't know what to do . Your son kept blaming his mother! See if what your son said is true or do you believe in your son? I told you from the beginning that I don't trust my new daughter-in-law , but if it's a boy, I'll just say he's good and beautiful, but Linda is pregnant with me. If we can't get pregnant, we can take in homeless children. I moved back to raise it, but it's my mother's fault!! Mom kept saying that it's okay to marry another child , but it's because Diep can't have children that's why she said that. The other day, it was clear that Diep was the one who knew where we kept the land register, and I thought maybe Linda was the one who stole it, I'm afraid. Especially keeping bees and raising foxes in Ms. Diep's house is very good. I don't think she's a thief. She takes care of me and my wife very well, but the mother and child chased it away the other day and she was excited to welcome it. Miss Linda? Mom said Miss Linda is good, she knows how to give birth, but now you doubt her? Seeing that he was pregnant with his grandson, the mother was also very happy!!! but unexpectedly !! When we got home from work, Miss Linda didn't prepare dinner for us . She just needed to give birth. The other day, Diep rushed in to get the land book . She deliberately opened the box and took her mother's book. That's it. I don't know what else to say when I tell Linda to take it from my mother? I wonder what happened when Linda saw it when her first wife took it out? Arguing won't solve the problem! Let's wait for the police's results. Let's go find Ms. Linda and come back. Mom and Dad must calm down. Did they already suspect that Linda took the book? Go find Linda. Come here, we need a daughter-in-law who can prepare food when we get home from work. Linda is pregnant. She should rest. Now wait for the police results . As for you, go. Find Linda here ok let me go !! How is the wedding time calculated? Now, what do you think? From the beginning, I told you to calm down and insist on getting married right away. Now I don't know what to do? The whole village, the whole neighborhood, all the brothers and sisters sent invitations , then he brought his belly back like that. My grandchild was also very happy, but I also wanted to have a bigger wedding. I was so tired and now I have to wait. I'm worried about finding Linda. I'm tired I'm so tired. I'm so bored. It's your fault, not whose fault? Oh my gosh, you're worried about finding your wife to take care of your mother, and when you're traveling, you're also worried about carrying a bag to buy alcohol? You've lost your land certificate!! When you go looking for your wife, do you still have a bottle of wine with you? I'm looking for a wife!! Are there any bottles or jars? No Linda, where did you leave me? I'm so lonely without you Linda... Linda Grandma, have you seen my wife here? don't see!! Don't you see her? she left me!!! huhu thank you, where did you leave me? Linda, why have I been looking everywhere for you but I can't find you anywhere? There are still a few geese in the house. That's a duck. Go up. Catch them all and sell them . Ca n't you go catch them? You have to tell me to go catch you and see if there's anything in the house to sell. Yes, I'll go catch them later. Is anyone at home? Can I ask if my wife is here? I heard you chase her away , why are you looking for her? Oh, I'm looking for my second wife, not my first wife. My first wife kicked her out. Now I'm married to my second wife and she's pregnant. I don't know where she went. Where did she leave me? I don't know !! I'm looking for my second wife but you don't see my wife here? Is she nowhere to be seen or is she hiding in here? It's not in here, isn't it real? So do you have any wine? Please give me some if I drink all day long, how can I leave without alcohol? Give me a little, just a little, please, just a little, please, just a little while looking for my wife, my throat is dry, okay, just a little, thank you, just a little!! Yes, thank you. Well, I'm home and I don't see my wife anywhere? But the wine is too little , Linda, where are you ? Did you leave me like that? I looked everywhere for you but couldn't find you? I miss Linda so much Linda, I wonder how Diep is doing? It doesn't look like she's that bad that she has to do such things. Or should I try to find out? Maybe I can help her? Hello Chairman Yes, hello, I just returned to Vietnam. I would like you to provide me with some information about the people in this area, please? Well this is simple, I will help the boss make an appointment with someone who has a background here so I can make an appointment with that person to meet the boss and they will answer all your questions very well!!! Thank you, Can you give me the location? Ok boss, there were many beautiful girls at the bar last night. I called you yesterday but couldn't contact you. Later, someone from abroad will come back... see you soon. To exchange information to learn about Ms. Linda and Ms. Diep, he must be very rich, right? The president of company C? he has a lot of money hello? Did I ask Tuan to make an appointment to meet you? that's right, here I am!!! Please smoke, stop!! I don't smoke. I heard Tuan say that you are the one who knows the entire background of the people here, right!! I know everyone here very well. How accurate is the information you provided? 100% I have a lot of juniors everywhere so I know everything? I want to know more about Diep? I know everything. But if you want to know , you have to give me some money for information, because I also have to cover expenses for other social brothers... gas money, wages, money...etc. ...v I understand Is this enough? There are many people in my place so it takes a lot of time... Is this enough? Okay bro, if you want any information, just ask. I want to know information about Ms. Diep. She has been married for 5 years but cannot have children, but the problem is not Ms. Diep's, it's all about her husband who drinks all the time. , drunk, sometimes they don't even sleep in the same bed together , how can they have children, people blame that girl for being sick, not knowing how to give birth... and what is her life like? life is very miserable. was abused by her mother-in-law, her husband was drunk, and cursed... So what about Mr. qao's second wife? Oh man, she's an expert at scamming. Look, is this her? That's right. This woman is an expert at defrauding married men to take possession of them as their own..as for the pregnancy, it belongs to her husband, not Mr. pao. That pao is just a victim. And Miss Diep is the one suffering the most. Miss Diep married Mr. Pao because she was forced to pay debts on behalf of her relatives. It was said that she was an adopted orphan. This girl's fate is very miserable Her husband's failure to give birth to children is also blamed on her. Until now, Mr. Pao's second wife took the book to sell, now she blames Ms. Diep for taking it.. the police came and took Ms. Diep away.. you guys help me find the culprit who stole it, and exonerate her. Diep? This is simple, it certainly won't disappoint you.. what do you use to prove you can do it? Don't worry. I called my brother to ask for information about the tea lady. Why is it called tea? Changing your name is a normal thing, bro. Hello Okay, then keep a close eye on her. I thought her name was Linda. That name is a scammer, she also has many other names... do we need to use her too? Okay, I will arrange it, if necessary I will contact you guys, thank you.. you are truly a rich young man, just say a few words and immediately throw money away. This is my brother's part. I didn't expect Miss Diep to be so pitiful. I have to help her. Why is Tu's project so slow? If the culprit is not found, I will be in jail... but I still have to go to work to make money today. I don't know what to do, I only know how to chop firewood to make money. sell . I don't know what to do now..my fate is so tragic. I don't know what I was born into this world for. All the bad things happen to me.. but no matter how life is like that No matter what, I still have to try my best to overcome these difficulties... all good things will come sooner or later, right guys? Sister, sister, do you still buy firewood? Don't buy it, I already have a lot of it.. yes, take it somewhere else to sell.. hello boss. hello. Please come this way and visit. I've been a manager here for more than ten years. If the boss comes home today, it will probably be less difficult for me. I hope he will help me.. do you need to buy firewood? no, go somewhere else. Vang.. Miss.. do you buy firewood? Don't buy it. I already have a lot. Sir, do you buy firewood? What do you sell? Sell firewood and no one buys it. If you can get firewood yourself, no one buys it.. yes, thank you... how many tons of wood do we produce here each year? If you calculate it, it's quite a lot... every month on average we will collect 150-170 tons of wood which will be purchased by investors. With such wood output, how much profit do we make? Profit is about 30,000,000 VND / 1 ton of wood. Is that profit minus all other expenses? Not yet . These are machines used in wood production. This model is just a small model in wood production. Miss what? Oh so it's you? You sell firewood, right? How much did you sell this for? I only sell it for 50,000 VND. How much did you say just now? I sent you money.. I only took 50,000 VND. If you give me too much money, I'll only take 50,000 VND. Just take it. I don't have any change. Just take it. When you see me again, pretend to be me later , miss. Or let me drive you home... no need. Hey Miss.! Can I ask what's going on? I thought you were arrested? Why are you here? It was as you said, but then they had no evidence, so they let me go . Can I really ask? Did she really do that? Do you also think I stole? Are not ? That's why I asked you, is everything done? The police told me that if I don't arrest the perpetrator within three days, I will have to go to jail. Do you need any help? Are not !! but I'm so afraid of going to jail.... hey lady!!! You really don't need my help? Are not !! I thank you for your kindness... maybe I will face a 3 year prison sentence, hopefully there will be a miracle to help me, I'm afraid of being in prison