Are you mistaken? We're not getting married soon. I said Lin Susu, don't you understand? He said you were disgusting Meng Wanyu, why are you here? Of course I'm here to tell you I'm with your beloved Jiang Fan You've been a clown for so many years. Only now discovered It must be hard to feel You are together I really want to thank you. If you hadn't been here for so many years Continuously taking out the Lin family's assets Paving the way for Brother Fan How could we be so successful? Success And your parents What happened to my parents? You're going to die a miserable death. You don't know yet? Your father is helping you pay off your debts. Sold all his assets Can't pay back the loan now To give employees a good explanation Made a mistake It's you You bitch I'm sorry don't want Lin Susu, your grades are always at the bottom Now you dare to shout in the examination room How come Nanjing University has a student like you? I am reborn in the classroom of Nanjing University Hey Liu Susu Business Department Jiang Fan asked you to go to classroom 306 to find him now Jiang Fan Hahaha Previous life It was just a small favor from Jiang Fan. I can't help falling in love with him Be his licking dog Eventually leading to the destruction of the family This life This couple must pay the price. Lin SusuLin Susu Did you hear that? Jiang Fan asked you to go find him right now not see Nanda is a famous institution of higher learning in China. Cultivation of high-level talents An important collective for scientific and technological research In my previous life, I But in order to please Jiang Fan Don't hesitate to abandon your studies And this life I want to defeat him with my own knowledge. And trample them underfoot Nalin Susu What are you pretending to be? You are not just a dog following Jiang after he was burned. Normally he would rather be iron than come in time. What are you pretending to be now? If you want to go, go. You like what this dog gives you Lin Susu you Teacher, this student tried to cheat on the exam Disturbing my performance in the exam Not a teacher I'm not him It's all he wants. Teacher, my paper is done. I applied for early submission What Lin Susu, a perennial poor student, actually has to hand in her paper early Just rely on his pig brain It's almost the same as handing in a blank paper go out Are you sure you want to submit your paper early? Sure Okay, go ahead. You send someone to continue answering the questions. Hey, you say Will Lin Susu really give up the exam to come find Jiang Fan? After all, if he fails the exam again But you will be punished. What do you know? Who doesn't know Lin Susu is the dog next to Jiang Fan If you tell him to go east, he won't dare to go west. Jiang Fan and Meng Wanyu let Pingchang die slowly Who said I'm not coming? Isn't this coming? Jiang Fan dared to neglect you today I will not lick another man behind your back tomorrow. I was delayed for the exam, is that a problem? Just you Lin Susu I didn't expect you to pursue Jiang Fan How dare you say such big words? Do you know the concept of this exam? College Evaluation The image representatives of the college are all from the top of this exam This is a great opportunity to move up the social ladder. You deserve it. Yin Susu Don't you know how much you are capable of? I can't afford to lose you. No matter how bad my grades are I will never be below you. What did you say At first, I just relied on my love brain Regardless of everything, I took out all the resources at home to support You rely on yourself Fart odor Oh, and you too. Even if my grades are bad It's no worse than your stinky mouths Instead of praising others here Why not look at yourself There is a future with him Lin Susu, I know I have ignored you these days. Even if you are being unreasonable, there should be a limit. obedient You are just a person who relies on others' resources. Help poor students go to school Brother Fan is willing to lift you up It is also the blessing you have earned in your previous life. I advise you to keep a positive attitude Apologize to Brother Fan immediately There is still a chance to redeem everything. I'm sorry. This kind of garbage I'm not rare If you like it, I'll give it to you. What did you say Hey, Jiang Fan doesn't buy into the hard-to-get game. If you have any sense, come over here and apologize. Maybe he'll give you another chance. Usually follows Brother Fan around like a dog Can't be driven away Today I'm pretending to be noble Jiang Fan, please don't forgive him easily. Lin Susu, have we really started Oh yeah I bought you this coat. Now you can give it back to me. Just a torn piece of clothing I don't care Lin Susu, stop being so stubborn If you really don't like Brother Fan Why would I give up the exam to come to him? Who said I came for him? Hello Trifoliate Stone From today on, I, Lin Susu, will pursue you From today on, I, Lin Susu, will pursue you Lin Susu How dare you snatch one of my junior students in front of me? Do you know what the consequences are? Jiang Yingshi is usually very dull But at least he is a famous figure in Nanjing University. The most talented person that all the departments are vying for Why is it his turn? Lin SusuLin Susu The more you are like this It will only make Brother Fan more angry The reason why I liked Jiang Fan at the beginning It's purely because of blindness. Now I realize Jiang Yanshi is more handsome and more charming In contrast Jiang Fan seems to be useless. And said I was useless Sir, this is the classroom. It's not good to hit a woman. Sister, you must come to find me when you grow up. Um Sister, I finally found you. Thank you Junior If you hadn't acted with me I won't get away so quickly. It's just acting. Of course not only what Um Take this money as my thank you gift to you. Sister, you are quite interesting. ah ah What are you angry about? Do you think the money is too little? Hey, look at this Lin Susu In the morning, I still think highly of myself Like a pug in the afternoon I came here following the smell that is I know his character best. Could it be that he really likes that nerd? Li Susu, why did you do these things? It's just that you care too much about me As long as you're willing to apologize I will forgive you Get out of the way What do you say? Dogs don't block the road Oh my god, Uncle Lu is so strong. Junior, do you mind if I sit here? I want to say mind Will you leave? What to see Don't you need to eat? Lin Susu, I want to see how long you can pretend I really appreciate your help this morning. If you think the money I give you is too little I can add more Do you see it? Sister Xue, you are really smart. unique well Is he praising me or scolding me? Miss, these are the masters and the ladies. Uncle Liu purchases daily necessities for you Don't come to school to see me without permission anymore. I don't want to reveal my identity as a temporary daughter Luxury goods Lin Susu, no wonder you don't want to add Jiang Fan It turns out that she became a peripheral girl There is 1 million in this card This is your living expenses for this week. Okay, okay. I know, leave now. snort Hey, Junior What a coincidence! Are you also going to attend Professor Liu's lecture? Let's do it together yes What about Jiang Fan? Jiang Fan, what does this have to do with Jiang Fan? Ming Susu I always thought you were a good girl I didn't expect that she would become someone's mistress behind his back. I'm so disappointed in you I want you This is not the day when Uncle Liu sent me something. So, in what capacity are you questioning me? Hey, Brother San He really doesn't like him. impossible He liked me for three years. How is it possible? Change as you say Junior ah ah how Soft is not good It's going to be hard Brother Fan, who in the whole school doesn't know that Lin Susu likes you? He should have done it right in front of so many people. Throw yourself into the arms of Master Jiang Yan Don't I just want to slap you in the face? I didn't mean it. Lin Susu What's good about Jiang Yanshi Is it really necessary for you to go to so much trouble to post it? He has good vision Stick to you You are the one who is blind You want Jiang Yanshi to attract my attention Okay, I admit you have the ability. Are you satisfied? Jiang Fan You take yourself too seriously. Forget it, Brother Fan What's the point of arguing with them? Lin Susu Today is my birthday We met once and you Jiang Yingshi, come with us Just take it as bringing you here to broaden your horizons Excuse me I'm not interested OK Jiang Yanshi and I will be there on time oops There's no harm in us country bumpkins seeing the world. Right? Um Sister, what do you want to do? Cheers Cheers The entire South City Only Brother Fan can arrange such a large box. It can be seen that he is really good to Sister Wanyu This is a limited edition Chanel necklace. Worth at least a million. This is a StarCraft limited edition It's not something you can buy with money. Wanyu, I bought this especially for you. Do you like it? Yo Look, everyone. Wearing cheap street goods You really dare to come Lin Susu Wanyu's birthday party You didn't come empty-handed, did you? Little uncle's courtesy is not respectful Hey, isn't this the one that Brother Fang gave to Wanyu? Lin Susu is a poor Where can I buy the real thing? This looks fake. Lin Susu, if you can't afford it, don't give it to me. Send a fake What's the meaning Fake I think the one on your neck doesn't look real. Enough Lin Susu Today is Wanyu's birthday I can see it for his sake. Don't bother with you You should not be too pushy. Lin Susu, if you drink this glass of wine, I will forgive you Could it be that you drugged this glass of wine? What nonsense are you talking about? I'm trying to give you a way out, but if you don't accept it, forget it. And slandered me in public I'm just kidding you. Look how anxious I am. Um This wine tastes good. Come to junior school Or you can try it too Sister, can't you forget Jiang Fan? Why are you angry again for no reason? Thank you Ahhhh I'm sorry. I feel a little uncomfortable Go to the bathroom Young Master Jiang has hundreds of billions of assets You are the only heir. Now I am hiding my identity and going to school in Nancheng It will only give your second uncle an opportunity to take advantage of you. snort Want to take Jiang's away from me We have to see if he has the ability to do this. who What you really see Lin Susu and several men entered another box stop What happened It's all my fault If I could persuade Susu more He won't let himself fall. Wanyu, this is not your problem It is a well-known fact that Su Su is kept Where are others now? In Box 999 Jiang Fanying went to find him But Yuanda people are fine Hum Lin Susu Just wait for your disgrace. Look at this little waist. Look at this ass Oh, stop begging. Brother, this will satisfy you. Oh my god, we're still a step late Unexpectedly Lin Susu is usually such a well-behaved girl Actually What are you still standing there for? Open the door! Let everyone see how shameless Lin Susu is yes This is what I am best at. It's so lively What are you doing? How about letting me take a look too? How come you are here? Who is that person in there? Who is that person in there? It's really fun to play with this disease. It's him I told you not to Come here and don't listen I don't care who ordered you. Now I'll pay you three times the price to do something for me Uh uh uh how so What is the situation Stop recording. Stop recording. Hey, don't be nervous. Today's society is very tolerant There are some things we all know What happened to you tonight was an accident If you don't want to get into trouble, just shut up. I do this for everyone's good. What if it's found out that I did it? I'm totally done. Walk From Susu Hey, Junior It's a piece of jade, it's yours It turns out that the person who saved me was Jiang Yanshi But I mistook the instigator as my savior What's wrong? Don't cry. I didn't bring any paper. It's you It's always you Okay, okay, okay. What happened? ah Lin Susu How come I didn't find it at first? You have such a vicious heart. Lin Susu, upload the video to the campus network It's known to everyone Caused Brother Fan to be pointed out You're really going too far. What video? oh You said Jiang Fan dated a man Hey Jiang Fan If you had told me earlier that you didn't like women I won't waste so much time on you. Don't worry We are all adults I won't look at you through tinted glasses. Lin Susu, shut up! I know you are jealous of Fan Ge's kindness to me So I want to destroy him in this way Before things get too serious Please go to the campus network and publish an apology statement. You are empty-handed Why should I apologize? If it wasn't you who did it, then who else could have done it? It can't be Brother Fan. I'm using my reputation to frame you. Xiaofan You must clarify the truth for me today Xiaofan, let me go Let him go I don't understand what you are saying I said let him go Jiang Yan Shilin Su Su is not scheming If you help him again Sooner or later you will regret it Improper private life I still have to go to other people's Jiang Yanshi Lin Susu's frame-up of Brother Fan is well-founded Why do you shield him? According to the monitoring display Jiang Fan went with others voluntarily This is enough to prove Lin Susu's innocence How do you have surveillance? I've obviously called Yo You blew yourself up, didn't you? Fan Ge I'm doing this for your reputation. Don't be misled by them. Wanyu, you have something wrong in your mind Thank you for your hard work last night. Okay, stop being annoying. One more thing Jiang Fan due to personal life issues Seriously affecting other students The school decides on the punishment noble What As long as I perform well this semester Xiao Feng will naturally remove my punishment No matter what happens, I still have Wanyu She is the daughter of the school director. Is this a small matter? Why haven't I heard of Meng Wanyu? There is a shareholder named Meng on the school board You are questioning my identity Is Wanyu a narrow-minded person? Of course I can't see you. Why do you want to get to know her? I can't see him well. this This might be the funniest joke I've heard this year. Forget it, I won't bother with you. My parents just bought me a villa this week. I invite everyone to come to my house to play on the weekend As for you, you don't need to come. After all, villa facilities are expensive I'm afraid you'll get it dirty and you won't be able to pay for it, so let's go. Although we are poor But poor but ambitious Don't let this hurt your self-esteem. By the way, thank you for today but KTV monitoring Non-senior staff cannot get it. How did you do it? Oh I see You're not working part-time at that KTV, are you? You shouldn't be You're not working part-time at that KTV, are you? But you secretly checked the surveillance for me Your boss found out. Your rice bowl is not full I'll give you some money. Just think of it as me giving it to you Sister, I don't want money. You don't want money what would you like Do you want me to be your slave? No, I can't serve people. Just think about it slowly. you What do you want? The video has been uploaded Prison Stone as a token of gratitude Let's go out and play on the weekend No time This is my first time asking a guy out Are you sure you don't want to go? Then I'll think about it. Help me prepare a date outfit I'm going out on the weekend Understand Master Oh yeah I have acquired the KTV according to your instructions. but Why do you still want us to upload Jiang Fan's video? Upload to campus network I see No third person is allowed to know about this. Let's go. My home is in front. Do you live in a wealthy area or a villa? I can't always tell him This is the new villa my parents bought. Uh, I just rent it to kill time. Aren't you a poor person? How do you know this is a wealthy area? I just found out about this from the news. This is the richest area in South City. Anyone who can buy the house here They are either rich or noble. Wanyu didn't expect your family to be so rich There is an antique dealer named Meng on the Shao board of directors. It is said that she is Chairman Lin's wife Sister Wanyu, you are not the daughter of the Lin family, are you? The Lin family's daughter has not yet made her identity public I'll take his place. Seems like there's no problem. Mom told me to be low-key I hope you won't make this public. It turns out that Meng Wanyu is the daughter of the Lin family Unexpected My chance to become famous has come so soon. Lin Susu Meng Wanyu, why are you here? Uncle Lin This is the new villa that Wanyu's parents bought for him. Where else could he be if not here? You don't invite He is really shameless. Find the property management and kick them out immediately. A smell of poverty Broke these things Can you afford the compensation? Meng Wanyu How come I don't know This villa is transferred to your name. Not mine Could it be yours? It doesn't matter whether it's mine or not The important thing is that I know this villa is not yours Lin Susu Wanyu is weak Tolerance everywhere You come here again and again to cause trouble It's too much why are you laughing I laugh, I laugh at you for not knowing your own limitations. I might as well tell you Sister Wanyu is the eldest daughter of the Lin family. Offended her You can afford it You said she was the daughter of the Lin family In her previous life, Meng Wanyu had always done things in a high-profile manner. It is said that she has a distinguished family background. Now it seems She replaced my identity Put these two unidentified people down. Destroyed the owner's property Can you afford it? Excuse me It's really our problem. Miss Lin Hey, hey, hey, I got the wrong person. Our Wanyu is the daughter of Lingshi This is the only limited edition necklace in the world. Only Lingshi Qianjin can get it Is he? Miss Lin is I have no eyes terribly sorry Okay, I've always been you It's normal that you didn't recognize me. The other two people did not have my permission Trespassing in my villa Why don't you kick them out? Meng Wanyu, let me ask you one more question Are you sure you are the owner of this villa? Of course I hope you take this position. joke Wanyu is the daughter of the Lin family. You are just a dog behind Jiang Fan On identity and status How can you compare with Lin Susu said that he didn't like her. I think compared to him You are you Meng Wanyun, the surprise I prepared for you is in the back Miss Guan Yunlin suddenly informed that she would return to the villa You take them away immediately. Don't get discovered. She's coming back Damn, he's coming back. Wenyu, who's coming? The disinfection team I hired will be here soon. Why don't you go back today? Wenyu, you don't need to ask everyone to go out just to disinfect. Why do you want everyone to leave for no reason? Why does Wanyu look so ugly? What happened? I'll go when I say go You don't understand what people say, right? No, can't be found. What happened? Why are you so angry? Let's go Hey, go, go, go I think Compared to Meng Wanyu You are more like the owner of this place You just want to watch the fun No students? Who allowed you in? Hey, why are you still here? If Miss Lin saw We're all done What You are not Miss Lin You are not Miss Lin Of course I am Miss Lin. And who are you? Where did it come from? How dare you talk to me like that? Wanyu you Is Meng Wanyu, the housekeeper, really Miss Lin? Isn't this the young lady? Mom, have some tea Our SuSu But she is the only daughter of our Lin family. She is really the apple of our eye. Thank you, Dad, thank you, Mom Love you guys Tell him who is Miss Lin I tell you Pay attention when you speak. It's Missy Forgive my poor eyesight I mistook you for a servant. Please don't blame me. Lin Susu What else do you have to say? What are you standing there for? Why don't you kick them out? Ruined my good mood You can't afford it Please, two of you. Um, I'm sorry. How about I take you somewhere else next time? I have no idea Didn't you know the villa has been rented out? Still don't know Meng Wanyu is the owner You are the real owner of the house. Senior Hey, stop making fun of me. If this were my home Can I be kicked out? Right, how can I I haven't heard about your family situation. My mother died early My father raised me My stepmother kicked me out of the house while my father was seriously ill I came to Nancheng for study. It's also for work. So that's how it is There is very little information about Jiangyan in the previous life. I only heard that he became a new crown in the capital shortly after graduation. Dominate the workplace Sister, why don't you trust me? How could I not believe you? We are best friends. Wait until you become successful in the future You must not forget my poor relative Just Friends Yes, yes. Lin Susu How come I was teased by a younger junior? snort Sister, when will you remember me? The eldest lady's master ordered Avoid what happened last time I must be by your side to protect you I've had enough. Tianyin Stone Don't follow me If you dare to reveal my identity, I will According to the latest reports Chairman Jiang is still in a coma Jiang Erye holds all the power It seems that the emperor is about to change. Let you keep an eye on me This is how my second uncle helps me say Jiang Shao Your second uncle secretly bribed shareholders to use them for his own benefit By the time we knew it, it was too late 1What's the point of raising you guys? Jiang Yanshi Senior How come you are here? I just called you didn't you hear me These people followed in. oh I'm selling wine here. Part-time job as a waiter real But I think they seem to be more afraid of you And Mr. Li How could he be here when he never drinks? Mr. Li He is bent He just wanted to touch me I was rejected He wanted to rob What he wants to touch Don't worry, I will definitely stand up for you. Shhh Forget it, forget it, forget it. Senior sister, forget it. You are Mr. Li You like to force good girls into prostitution, right? I forced women into prostitution Okay, I'll help you. drink Oh Senior sister Li was also obsessed for a while Uh uh uh never mind Miss, I already know I was wrong. You have a lot of Forgive me this time. Mr. Li is also a well-known entrepreneur It's no good for us if you insult him. You are right. Mr. Li, I was just joking with you. Don't mind it. It's my problem The lady scolded me so well. Mr. Li, I have something else to do. Please enjoy it slowly. Hahaha There has never been a woman around Jiang Shao. That was Oh, Mr. Jiang protects me so tightly. It's clear that she's the one on his mind. ah You approached me on purpose Is it to take revenge on Jiang Fan? Or do you have other intentions? Of course not. How can Jiang Fan be worthy of you? Really? But you just helped me And I'm penniless Now I can only promise you my body I'll go upstairs first. You better have something big to say Plus the girl you're with tonight It seems to be from Lin Group. are you sure real I met him at the birthday party of Lin Group last year It's absolutely right. I know this Don't let any third person know Really? But you just helped me And I'm penniless Now I can only promise you my body What exactly did Jiang Yanshi mean? Ah, he wouldn't be to me ah careful stop Meng Wanyu, apologize to me Let me apologize to you Do you deserve it? It's your own fault that you fell down because you were not careful when walking. What does it have to do with me? Don't go too far I just bully you What can you do to me? Mo Wanyu apologizes How is my family background and appearance not better than Lin Susu's? Why do you protect her? I don't want to say the second Apology Jiang Yanshi You are so majestic. I admit that compared to everyone here You actually do better academically when you're stiff But this is not your order, Wanyu Give Lin Susu the capital to apologize Do you understand? But if I insist today, Brother Fan Forget it. I'll just bear with this grievance. Don't let it affect your mood when you look at your results today. Or is our Wanyu considerate? After the results come out You must be the campus ambassador this time. The results are not out yet It's not certain who will win or lose. Lin Susu's bragging will only ruin her future You better behave yourself Admit mistakes No one will laugh at you It is a good thing that Fan Gelin Su Su Ken actively strives for opportunities It's just this result. Relying on one's own ability Not that mouth Meng Wanyu If I am not selected as the ambassador this time I voluntarily dropped out of school But if I try Apologize to me in front of everyone Dare to bet? Of course Don't regret it if you lose. Meng Wanyu and Jiang Yanshi are top students at Nanjing University. Lin Susu, how dare you make such a boast? What are you capable of? In my opinion The top scorer in the college entrance examination that year was our Wan Yu And you Lin Susu I was just lucky enough to be admitted to Nanjing University. Hum, let's see the joke. Don't be afraid, sister. I trust you The results are out Jiang Yin is the first Meng Wanyu Second really The second place still belongs to Wanyu Is Li Susu convinced? Come on. Only Bailing Susu's results were made public He will realize How arrogant was my behavior just now? Lin Susu and Jiang Yanshi's scores are the same For them Production No.1 What What how so How could Lin Susu Meng Wanyu, you lost It's impossible that you fail every year, Lin Susu How did it become the first? He must have cheated. Lin Susu, I'm not attacking you. Even if you read more books It can't change the current situation. but You shouldn't cheat to achieve your goals. This kind of person is not worthy of staying in Nanyang University I suggest that everyone jointly report Lin Su Su cheating on exam Expel him from school Expulsion from school My past life I actually fell in love with such a humble and shameless person. That's ridiculous. Lin Susu: The most taboo thing about Nanjing University is academic fraud You take the initiative to go to the Academic Affairs Office and admit your mistake. Maybe we can handle it as appropriate. I didn't do anything wrong Why should I admit it? Well, since you insist that you didn't cheat, It's better to produce evidence This way everyone will look at you with admiration As far as I know Lin Susu seems to be the first person to walk out of the examination room If he cheats Who did he copy? And even if he cheated The Academic Affairs Office should also check It's not your turn. Jiang Yanshi You know very well that Lin Susu's academic performance is poor Now, in order to protect him, the blackboard is turned upside down You are a disgrace to NCU. Yeah yeah It's already class time. What are you all doing here? Director Lin Susu He cheated on the exam The score you cancelled is wrong Dismissal Environmental protection is justice Director, my ranking doesn't matter. You can't do this to protect the school's reputation. Keep this kind of people in Nanyang Technological University Cheating You all know the female champion from two years ago, right? Her last name is Lin Lin Susu's Lin He was actually the top female scorer last year. He's too low-key. I haven't said anything for so long. Then these years Meng Wan also uses the name Lin Susu Showing off in school It's impossible to have such a big face Master, I know you have a kind heart. I want to give Lin Susu a chance to change. But you can't speak against your conscience. Since he was the top female scorer last year Why didn't he say anything? Director, is there any misunderstanding here? I'm used to keeping a low profile. But that doesn't mean I'm a fool who can be manipulated by others. Why are you making so much noise? Do you think this is a vegetable market? Ah, and you guys Dare to face the school's judgment openly It's just nonsense What are you standing here for? Don't you have to go to class? stop You've already taken the spotlight What else do you want? Meng Wanyu, you haven't apologized yet? It's only been less than 20 minutes. Miss Meng You haven't forgotten the bet with Lin Susu, have you? As the beauty of the Business Department of Nanjing University Should we keep our word? Set an example Lin Susu I I Sorry for you Are you satisfied? No thank you either. Um Just received a notification The campus ambassador will attend the performance next week I heard that the visitors are all well-known entrepreneurs. It's an opportunity not to be missed So Jiang Yanshi What talent are you going to perform? Can you play the piano? I've seen other people play the piano. I don't know how to do it. But this time the school's requirement is to play the piano Senior sister, I want to play the piano with you You and me Forget it. I'm afraid of holding you back. It's okay, I'll teach you Wanyu Ni Susu is just lucky On strength and talent How can he compare to you? Don't worry about this anymore. And as far as I know This performance requires piano collaboration With his family background No more than piano Going up there is just embarrassing. piano Yes, you have passed the 7th grade of piano. Looking at the whole NTU Who can compare with you? Lin Susu, the higher you climb, the better The harder you fall Brother Fan, can you do me a favor? Lin Susu I hope you give me the chance to perform. After all, with his talent and appearance He is the most suitable person to appear in the show It doesn't matter if Jiang Fan has an empty mind The key is not to go in. I'm doing this for your own good. You came from a poor family Maybe you haven't even seen a piano. How can I perform on stage? Do you want to embarrass yourself in front of everyone? I know you still have me in your heart, right? Don't dream about me Even if I die, I will never let Meng Wan have the chance to go on stage. dad Wanyu must perform on stage no matter what Only to please Lin Qianqian We, father and son, have a bright future. Jiang Yanshi is too miserable He went out to work part-time She was taken away by the old man Liu. You said he killed a male model last month. What's so miserable? Although he is a man But I climbed up to the high branch of Mr. Liu It can be regarded as a good future for myself. No, I have to go save Jiangyan City. Hey Lin Susu What does the erotic stone have to do with you? If he doesn't want Who can force him? Senior I was drunk Can you come pick me up? I I'm afraid What should I do next? I don't need to teach you. Mr. Jiang, please trust me. I will definitely do it to your satisfaction. Hey hey hey College students are youthful and energetic You drank too much I'll take you to rest Chiang Kai-shek you Which insect are you? You dare to ruin my good deeds? Is Miss Lin of Nancheng qualified? Miss Lin is me No offense Please raise your hands It's not easy to let me, Mr. Liu, go As long as he likes someone Get it anyway I tell you Jiang Yanshi is mine If you dare to do anything bad to him again I can't guarantee it Do you still have a place to stand in the South City? Uh, yes, yes, yes, yes Walk Mr. Jiang, you really screwed me over. Senior sister elder sister I feel so bad Sister Jiang Jieshi, what's your roommate's phone number? I'll ask them to take you back. They isolate me Ah, then do you have any friends or relatives here? In the nearby They abandoned me too. elder sister Do you want to abandon me too? Then I'll take you to a nearby hotel to spend the night. Sister, you are so cruel elder sister I don't believe you don't have me in your heart This looks pretty handsome. Passers-by on the shore back The atmosphere is just right I want to have a brush with you It will be Last night was so embarrassing. I hurried before anyone found out. Lin Susu's rehearsal has begun Where are you going? Me ah ah I have to pee urgently The toilet is on your right Why are you hiding from me? Why am I hiding from you? It's because of you last night You took advantage of me last night Take advantage of you Then your husband comes. I Jiang Yushi you bastard Lin Susu I want you to be my girlfriend I don't accept elder sister I really like you I I don't accept your confession. We'll talk next time. besides You are not allowed to call me sister Why From today on, I am your sister. I will protect you from now on Sister, it's okay. I'll wait for you to remember everything. Jiang Yanshi, the man opposite him Isn't he the assistant to President Jiang? How did they get together? Young Master, you are the chairman's only son. He is the heir of Jiang family. You shouldn't stay here and be bullied. Jiang Yanshi is actually the only son of the Jiang family I'll handle my own affairs Just keep an eye on your uncle. yes The Jiang family has always dominated the entire business circle The only son of the Jiang family has a net worth of over 100 million since birth How can a mere Jiang Fan compare to him? Humming Jiangyan Stone You hid so deeply I have to seize the opportunity We can't let that bitch Lin Susu get away with it. Jiang Yanshi, this is the lunch box I prepared for you. I hope you can accept it Excuse me I do not accept Anything but my girlfriend girlfriend ah Wanyu Why did you make lunch for Jiang Yanshi yourself? Didn't you say that the person you like is me? Brother Fan, I do this I just want a chance to perform on stage. It's a pity that he didn't appreciate it. Wanyu, I can't bear to see you being wronged. Leave this matter to me. Um Lin Susu, you give I'm waiting for the day I will definitely take your place Why did Meng Wanyue come to see you for no reason? He brought me lunch. Sister, he wants to invite me to dinner, what should I do? Just a bento What's there to think about? Jealous I will be jealous of you Please stop being so sentimental, okay? Even if I'm jealous of someone I won't eat yours. Don't be angry Just for fun Lin Susu's membership today belongs to Wanyu I'm not allowed to go Get lost elder sister You are here Hey Jiang Yanshi, you hurt me Where is Lin Susu? Lin Susu won't come What's the meaning Lin Susu has liked Jiang Fan for three years With you It's just to vent anger on Jiang Fan. Your efforts are worthless in his eyes. impossible The reason why I am here It was Lin Susu who asked me to exchange Jiang Fan with him. How can you let him down? Now, let's welcome our campus image representative Playing piano on stage Even if Uncle Lin doesn't like me, I won't like you either. elder sister Is it true that I am not in your heart? Wait a moment How do you know he'll attack you? In my previous life, Jiang Fan could kill me for profit. Now, in order to stop me from performing Nature will do whatever it takes Sister, I thought you wouldn't come. What happened to your feet? Don't bother him Let's talk now Lin Susu, don't be complacent Without my help Jiang Yanshi's insight today is destined to fail He will definitely hate you. Could this be Moonlight Sonata by famous foreign musicians This is a level 10 song. What Lin Susu, a poor student, has never even touched a piano. How can there be a level 10 skill? Lin Susu I am Dean Liu from the Conservatory of Music. I like your musical talent. If you want I hope you can be my student Professor, thank you for your invitation. But I can't be your student. Oh my god, Dean Liu is a well-known music master in China. Now he personally extends an olive branch to Lin Susu This is an opportunity that some people can't even ask for. He refused. Lin Susu, can you please tell me the reason? The professor is like this Because I already have a master He is Professor Rowan Well-known Professor Ron is a world-class pianist I have only accepted one apprentice in my life. Lin Susu, you were born in poverty How did I get to know Professor Ron? Dean Liu, in my opinion He is self-righteous. Refusal to accept your guidance I said that on purpose. Some people never see Professor Ron in their whole life. What's more, it's Lin Susu In my opinion, he is just too proud of himself. He doesn't take Dean Liu seriously at all. Then you know What is Professor Ron's only apprentice? The daughter of the Lin family in Nancheng Did he already know my identity? Isn't the Yun family's daughter Meng Wanyu? I didn't expect that he was Professor Ron's apprentice. It seems so He is really low-key. Even though I was taught by Professor Ron Don't forget to continue improving yourself I have studied with Dean Liu many times. He is truly admirable. You are Professor Ron's apprentice. certainly But my master has always taught me to study in a low profile That's why I haven't revealed my identity yet. I'm really sorry why are you laughing I also pretended to be my master's apprentice to you. He just wanted to take advantage of his fame in the circle. To pave the way for your future A liar like you The future is doomed to be bleak I just suddenly remembered There is a concert next week Professor Ron No, your master will be there in person. Since you are his only disciple It's another matter of a thousand gold Then you can take everyone to observe and learn. That shouldn't be a problem. Wanyu, you just agreed to his request. Let's go see Let's see how he gets slapped in the face. Yeah yeah Lin Susu I can certainly give you a chance to attend I just hope you won't regret it by then. Always at your service ah Ah Warrior You put me down What are you going to do? This is the infirmary. What are you going to do? you elder sister If you don't want others to hear Just don't make any sound This is a public place for now. Will be seen elder sister What's going on in your head? elder sister Wanyu, I stole this from the eldest lady. You mustn't be discovered. Don't come to school without my permission. If they see I have such a useless father. They will definitely laugh at me Jiao Yanshi and Jiang Fan got into a fight What's the fight? Sister, are you just seeking revenge? I'm in pain Jiang Anorexia Do you know that hitting someone will result in punishment? In serious cases, you will be fired. You are kidding your future. Sister, you are angry Okay, I know I was wrong. I won't hit anyone anymore. Sister, I will never fight again. I swear if I fight again I am a puppy you Okay, okay. I forgive you You just forgive me. Since my sister forgives me I also have a gift for my sister. Concert invitation VIP seats Where did you get it? Well Am I not working outside? Was it given to me by a client? No, this VIP invitation is hard to come by. You can't buy it on the market. Someone gave it to you ah Are you hiding something from me? What can I hide from you? You shouldn't be I admit you are pretty. But you can't sell your body. I'll say it again All my jobs are regular jobs This is also regular Oh, it's okay. I understand They are all young people of the new era Looks more open-minded Lin Susu, I think you are itching, right? Um Jiang Yanshi I am willing to be your girlfriend Sister, who did you just say you like? My ears are not very good Brother Fan is now spreading rumors in school You are not as attractive as a poor student They all laugh at you Besides his face, Jiang Yanshi How can you compare to me? I think Lin Susu is just looking for a sense of novelty After a long time, it will naturally come back to me I didn't expect you would dare to come. I am upright and I am not afraid of my shadow. What am I afraid of? Humph, don't be complacent. Wait until you are exposed After you pretended to be Professor Ron's apprentice I wonder how you can still laugh. This is the VIP area. Symbolizes the guest's status and power Without your identity How can I sit here? Why are you here? You see clearly This is the VIP area Not an ordinary audience seat yes VIP Zone 1 Jiang Fan is illiterate How is this possible? Wang Yue, you are acting like a bitch to them, you are not a shareholder? Why is it a VIP area? Academician Jiang He actually secured a position in the first district for Ling Susu Why The woman sitting next to him should be me. Lin Susu I understand your urgency to get promoted. But you can't instigate Jiang Yanshi to forge an invitation to Fan If this is discovered The consequences are serious I said VIP1 area is the location of the Imperial Capital zombies How could I be occupied by you for no reason? It turned out to be a fake invitation letter. Pick it up Otherwise, don't blame me for being rude to you. You're welcome, idiot. You don't think I'm really a member of the Jiang family, do you? Cousin, stop making trouble. Everyone is looking at you, idiot. I must expose these two hypocritical organizers today. Why don't you kick these two people out? Hello, what can I do for you? These two people entered the venue pretending to be Jiang It is really an insult to the concert. I suggest that they be kicked out immediately. Impersonating Jiang Imperial Capital Jiang's is the top enterprise in the country The last person who pretended to be Jiang was horrible. What's more, it's him Offended Jiang This life is over Don't be afraid, sister. I'll take care of everything What Someone openly pretended to be a member of my Jiang family at the concert I'm really tired of living You two come with me to the concert I want to see who is so bold. How dare you use the name of Jiang to cheat others? True or False Just look at the invitation letter and you'll know. I'm right, right? He will do it to satisfy his vanity He did not hesitate to impersonate Jiang It's so shameless Yin Susu This is the man you chose when you insisted on leaving me Please forgive me for the poor hospitality. Please forgive me You've got to watch it. He is just an ordinary poor student. How could there be an invitation? I personally delivered this invitation. You can't go wrong Jiang Fan, what else do you have to say now? This is definitely fake Based on your family background How could he be involved with Jiang's people? Forget it, Brother Fan Everybody's watching. Wenyuan, I know you have a kind heart. But this is no small matter Cannot be underestimated It's the end of the fool if he offends Jiang Yanshi In this case Please go out immediately, sir and miss. I want to see who dares to pretend to be our zombie. Isn't this Jiang Chen, the cousin of the president of Jiang Group? How did he come? Of course, I'm here to expose these two imposters. I heard that Jiang Chen is always cruel. Offended him Those two people can only wish for the best. Jiang Er Shao He was the one who forged the invitation. He also claimed to be a member of the Jiang family. Very familiar It's you, Jiang Chen Tell him I'm trying it's you Jiang Ershao, you must teach him a lesson. Do you know who he is? He is He is my sworn brother. What Jiang is anorexic, he is just an ordinary person How could he be your brother? question I dare not Get out of here! Jiang Ershao, I actually advised him not to target Jiang Anorexia But he didn't listen I have no choice Please don't argue with him. How are you? Bro, no Not Yanchi I gave you the invitation myself. Who dares to question He is just against me, Jiang Chen. this Could this be the girl you've been looking for? My Girlfriend Look at my mouth Drink some wine and talk nonsense This lady I'm really sorry. You are too polite, Mr. Jiang. Anyway, I still want to thank you today You are Academician Jiang My girlfriend is my friend Feel free to contact me if you need me. Yeah Thanks Hello, Mr. Jiang Introduce yourself I am Meng Wanyu I am a classmate of Yanshi Excuse me I'm not interested in you Jiang Er Shao is really humorous I guess you are here for my master tonight. Come here for the reputation Master To be honest Professor Ron is my master. If I hadn't heard that Ron had changed his mind Not going to take action I don't dare to take this risk Oh my god It turns out that he is Professor Ron's only apprentice. He is so low-key. Yes, Meng Wanyu is Professor Ron's apprentice. Besides, she is the daughter of Lin family. A distinguished status I said yes, right? Ms. Meng Wanyu You said he was the daughter of the Lin family That he My father taught me to be low-key since I was young. That's why I haven't revealed my identity yet. What is my sister going to play this time? Jiang Er Shao Wan Yu is the daughter of a famous official I am a top student from a male university. On family background, talent and knowledge We are no worse than anyone else. If you would like to be friends with us I think I will have more helpers in my future career. What do you think? I heard that Jiang's is looking for Professor Ron to cooperate with him recently. And I happened to be his apprentice. If you are willing to break up with Lin Susu in the future In exchange I'd like to give you a chance Meng Wanyu, I hear you mean to threaten Jiang Ershao Female swallow I am not doing this for Jiang's It's for you. Meng Wanyu Since you know Professor Ron Why don't you give him a call and ask him to come over? By the way, let us broaden our horizons What do you think? Hey Wanyu What are you still standing there for? Master, call you now. Wait for your master to come Look how arrogant they are. Professor Ron has something urgent to do today so he can't come Next time He really can't come. Or you don't even know him. Even if Lin Susu is jealous of me You shouldn't embarrass me in this situation. I embarrass you Do you believe it? I can call Professor Ron over right now. Lin Susu, who do you think you are? Professor Ron is a master pianist Will listen to your call What is your identity? Hello Professor Um Are you free now? Is it convenient for you to come to the concert? Yeah Just act it out I don't think I can Call Professor Ron. My future cousin's wife was bullied You're still in the mood to watch a play It's okay, he can Susu, don't think that Young Master Jiang is protecting you. You can do whatever you want It is important for people to know themselves. That's better than you, a phoenix, who has a hard time getting to the top. If you dare to touch him I'll make you live a life worse than death You dare, you can try. experience It's ok, I scared him Angels like Lin Susu are so careless A woman who doesn't care about others I don't deserve to stand by your side. She doesn't deserve you. Okay, Lin Susu Didn't you say that Professor Ron would be there in person? Then I'll wait and see how you get slapped in the face Look, everyone. Professor Ron is here. how so Could it be that Lin Susu really has the ability to call me over? It's not necessarily a coincidence Wanyun, didn't you say your master wouldn't come today? What is going on here? Wanyu, your master is here Why do you look unhappy? Help me spread fake news Just say that Professor Ron will not be attending the concert tonight. yes Meng Wanyu, your flattery has just begun Wanyu Your master is here. Why do you look unhappy? My beloved apprentice Speak What else is there for calling the master over this time? Professor Rowan You got the wrong person. Wanyu is your apprentice Why Wenyun, please say something. He is not my apprentice. Professor Rowan Wanyu is your only disciple Did you recognize the wrong person? Laugh at my age, Ron but It's not like he couldn't even recognize his own apprentice. Wanyun Didn't you say you were Professor Ron's apprentice? What is going on? Because from the beginning He is lying Master, I have something important to discuss. See you next time Is what he said true? You've been lying to me since the beginning Is he really Professor Ron's apprentice? Where is Mr. Liu's medical record? No, I don't want to explain. I just want to protect my master's reputation. If you don't believe me, just look at it. Patient suffered head injury in car accident Diagnosed with indirect amnesia Well-known musician was exposed to brain damage But it will ruin the master's vision. Sorry Wanyu I like you too much So I can't accept deception for a while Miss, I checked. Professor Ron was not in a car accident That medical record is not his. Okay, I know. By the way, there will be a charity dinner in Nancheng in a few days. There will be many celebrities present. The master ordered me to pick you up at that time. Um Ah you How come you are here? How long are you going to keep this from me? Miss Lin She, she, she just called me big sister You heard wrong I heard it wrong elder sister Do you really have the heart to keep deceiving me? Feel sorry I shouldn't have lied to you. I'm not angry I just want to tell you Whatever you decide Will support you Why are you so nice to me? fool Because you are my only choice as a wife What are you doing? have a look Jiang Yanshi is an outstanding student representative of Nanjing University I didn't expect him to be so brutal. Jiang Yanshi, a junior student in the Department of Finance Beating someone for personal feelings Jiang Yanshi beat his classmate in public Do you know that it will affect your studies? All your scholarships will be cancelled. Jiang Fan bullied my friend, he deserves to be beaten Hey, please don't put the blame on me. Besides, I deliberately wore it so sexy Not just for seduction Hey come Say it again. Dean, I'm just discussing the matter. How dare he talk to you in front of you? This doesn't take you into consideration at all. Zhang Yanshi, stop it! Principal, please make sure to handle this according to school rules. Don't let him go. Article 128 of the school rules stipulates that students fighting A light punishment of one year's detention Expulsion from school Sister, I'm fine. You go back first Did you hear that? Chiang Kai-shek now Even Lin Susu helped you at the critical moment You can see how humble you are. Lin Susu seeks self-protection Don't hesitate to push your subordinates You should have seen through this hypocritical woman long ago Hypocritical people You are probably the hypocritical one. you You dare to leave when the time comes Jiang Fan You said I seduced you And you rejected me You pushed me down the stairs, didn't you? certainly I can understand your feelings. At worst I can just compensate you. But Jiangyan City must be expelled today You are such a scumbag Dean Chen Meng Wanyu It's a temporary fortune Jiang Fan is the son of Deputy Director Jiang of the Education Department. You have to think it over before you make a decision. Yes, Lawyer Zhang What else do you have to say? I don't think I did anything wrong. Really stubborn. You can let me go if you want me to. But you have to kneel down. Knock three times Then kneel down and apologize to me. Forget it Apologize to you Do you dare to save my face in public? Jiang Fan Since you think this is the truth Well, I just happen to have something to show you. Please ask irrelevant personnel to leave. Let's go out Isn't it just to give you a chance to protect Jiang Yanshi? Stop dreaming This is what you asked for. Lin Susu I won't let you stop Wanyu from performing on stage No don't want No, no, no, no Don't watch it. Lin Susu You actually framed me to protect Jiang Yeshi. There is other evidence Jiang Fan played a role in provoking Jiang Yanshi The two of them only have a fighting relationship Many students saw it with their own eyes. So Jiang Fan's accusation is not valid. He's not a fool. How do you know so much? If you hadn't given the opportunity to Wanyu I won't hit you. Thank you. I have the confession. Susu Brother Fan, even if you hate Lin Susu You can't do this kind of thing. I'm so disappointed in you. Until now I have to disassociate myself Enough Jiang Fan has both witnesses and evidence What else do you have to say? What are you standing there for? Why don't you apologize to Lin Susu? Do you really want to be expelled from school? Li Susu Because you liked me so much back then. Forget it this time like Ask yourself with your conscience. You don't know what's good for you Dear school leaders, If someone does it for personal gain Want to protect this guilty person I don't mind making this public. Let the whole country comment on the school spirit of NTU I hope the leaders can give me a reply as soon as possible. Let's go Deputy Director Jiang Blame Lin Susu He produced evidence at this time It's obvious that he wants to ruin Brother Fan's reputation. She is indeed a temporary daughter I recognized your temperament at first sight By the way, there's a charity dinner in a few days. I hope you can bring Jiang Fan with you He has been concerned about Maybe I can help you then. Hum, that's natural. It is said that the threshold for this charity dinner is very high Only high-ranking officials are eligible to participate Wanyun, don't worry. I will take good care of you This is a good opportunity to break into the upper class circle. I will definitely grasp it elder sister What's wrong What's wrong Thank you Thank you for always standing by my side Oh, you're a grown man. When did you become so timid? Don't you like it, sister? oops Someone will see it later. Stop making trouble Ding ding ding ding Heart of the Sea This is not a Sotheby's auction. A necklace worth 50 million? Where did you get the money to buy a car? Yeah, sister I have this one, it's a high imitation Sister, you won't dislike me, will you? As long as you bought it for me I like them all Okay, then wait until I have money. I will definitely buy you the best necklace Wanyu's heart of Hailan I bought it from Sotheby's Wear it and you will be the most beautiful tonight Rich Girl Thank you, Brother Fan Whose lady is this? Oh my god, it's beautiful yes How come you are here? Compensation, right? Are these enough? Lin Susu, at least we have a past. If you want I'll give it to you Why should you despise yourself? Followed him Is it worth it? I suddenly became curious Poor families like yours Where did the 50 million come from? 50 million With Jiang Yanshi's background 50 million is just a small amount for him. It's the necklace on my neck. Why is Lin Susu's life so good? What does it have to do with you whether we can afford it or not? It's you A poor student who went to college entirely with the help of rich people Can you afford a necklace worth 50 million? I'm sorry. I can really afford it If you can provide evidence, you bought it. I will kowtow to you and apologize immediately good That's what he said. I heard it all. I said but We don't have this strength Don't pretend to be a rich second generation We are classmates, right? I want to save your face, right? Heilan Heart The Story Why not? See clearly It is clearly written in black and white The buyer is Jiang's president The eldest son of the Jiang family You think you put your name on it. The Jiang family I tell you to dream Jiang Yanshi, are you hiding something from me? Sister, I hope that no matter what I do You understand me unconditionally In the previous life, Jiang Yanshi had always been very hidden. There is little information about his background. The only news was when he took office as the president of Jiang Corporation. After becoming a new noble in the imperial capital Jiang Why didn't I think of that? You don't want to say that you are the eldest son of the Jiang family, do you? What if I were you The eldest son of the Jiang family has been hiding his identity for so many years. Never appeared in front of the media I didn't expect that one day I would be used by someone with ulterior motives. It's really despicable Jiang Fan Don't be happy too soon I tell you I'm not afraid of anyone coming today. Isn't this Mr. Jiang's assistant? How come he's here? What did you just say? He's just an ordinary guy. How could it be you? Jiang Yanshi is Jiang Shao's real name It's President Jiang The only son of the Jiang family What's his background? Since Mr. Jiang's assistant said so I guess I can't make ginger. The eldest son of the Jiang family is a symbol of power in the imperial capital. Now being humiliated That person is also afraid How is it possible? How could you really be No one doubts the identity of the young master Do you want to be an enemy of the entire Jiang family? Master, how do you want to deal with this person? Jiang Fan damaged Heilan's heart Compensation of NT$50 million Wanyue, help me I can't get that many guns. Jiang Fan, I warned you a long time ago Don't mess with Jiang Yanshi You have brought this upon yourself. It has nothing to do with me I am the daughter of the Lin family. Noble status You just use a fake one to fool me On the river, I was blind to Mount Tai It's me who should die You have a lot of Let it go this time. On the river On the river What happened to Yanshi today has nothing to do with me I was also deceived by Jiang Fan You won't blame me, right? Miss Meng Just install it again and it will be over Sister, sister elder sister I know I'm wrong Can you please not ignore me? Jiang Anorexia wrong Mr. Jiang Ming Susu is of humble status I don't deserve to be too close to you. Hey Ginger Rock Are you crazy? You put me down You forced me to do this. You put me down Are you crazy? Jiang Yanshi, let me go Jiang Yan, what are you going to do? Sister, I know I was wrong. Please don't ignore me, okay? You shouldn't have lied to me. yes I shouldn't have lied to you. But if I don't test you I don't even know if you like me or not No Don't cry. I didn't mean to hurt you. How about we just make it even? Really You're so nice to me, sister. You're getting faster, kid. As long as it's all about my sister It's worth my happiness Officer, you are temporarily advancing The family background is no worse than that of the immortals For our good official sake Help me I can help you But you have to do me one thing. Lin Susu was previously because of Jiang Fan I have done many things that are sorry for you. I hope you can forgive me Why should I believe you? You are Jiang Yanshi's man now. Even if I want to do something to you I also have to consider his status. Do you believe it now? The laboratory is still waiting for me. Excuse me. Yan Shilun Family Background I am your best choice As long as you're willing to be with me I promise to make you successful I, Jiang Yanshi, never need to rely on women to gain benefits And you are even less worthy of being compared with Lin Susu You need to go find Lin Susu I advise you to give up this idea. He just eloped with Jiang Fan Shut up I don't believe it. Then do you dare to catch me cheating? Follow Jiang Shao At least I can guarantee that he is my father and son. He picked a gigolo and ran away Lin Susu is my classmate He is the dog behind Jiang Fan Knowing that people don't like him I also want to rush to post anorexia I know you're unwilling But now except me No one will care about you Go catch an adulterer Lin Susu, only you have lost your fame and fortune Jiang Yanshi will completely belong to me I heard you were looking for me, right? How come you are here? bodyguard Sister, how is my performance? acting bodyguard Our sister knew you would do something to her. So I put on a show. Otherwise, how can you reveal your true form as a vixen? how Are you afraid to listen to me, the eldest daughter of the Lin family? Do you all want to rebel? I'll see who dares to take a step forward and give it a try. Jiang Yanshi, you will regret it OK Always at your service My daughter, Lin Tao, was born noble. I can still let you give me some advice. Dad, why are you here? dad How come you are here? My dear daughter Dad is a little late I'm afraid you'll be wronged Not too late, Dad You came just in time I, Lin Tao, hereby declare My Lin family has only one daughter like this. This Miss Meng is the housekeeper's daughter. What Lin Susu is the daughter of the Lin family Meng Wanyu always talks about Lin's daughter She was also very popular in school In the end, she was the fake one. He just wanted to satisfy his vanity. To replace Lin Susu's identity I'm really shameless. Impossible Impossible How could Lin Susu be the daughter of the Lin family? You knew from the beginning that my identity was fake. Why don't you expose me? Expose you How can I watch today's show? Why why You never told me Tell you Do I want you to use my identity again? In exchange for benefits? Susu, I realized my mistake. Give me another chance, please Jiang Fan, have you ever heard a saying? The belated affection is closer than the grass You have the fate today. It's all your own fault. It's all my fault I shouldn't have fed you like that. When I don't exist? The bodyguard took the man away yes Evil will be punished Good things come to you Jiangnan Meng Wanyun This is what will happen to you. Master, you haven't changed at all. Same as when I was a kid You always help me take good care of my uncle. You're welcome, uncle. This is what I should do Good daughter. Don't let Yan Shi down. What does it mean to be the same as when you were a kid? Sister, you really forgot everything. Hook hanging No change for a hundred years It's a puppy. It's you Jiang Yanshi I'm sorry I shouldn't have forgotten you. It's okay, we won't be separated anymore Can't even make a good plan What do Jiang's keep you for? say Don't think I'll let you go if you don't speak Mr. Jiang The lady is here Why did you come here without telling me? Are you tired? I'll give you a massage when we get to the office, okay? It has to be the lady. As expected, the wife has to come to crush Mr. Jiang. Wake you up Jiangyan City I am happy to marry you Whether in the past life or in this life I am always sure A long time ago There is a Jiangyan City behind me Um The moon is beautiful tonight What I mean is You are more beautiful than the moon I love you I love you too