Are you a list maker? Like do you wake up in and cross things off and then decide what are No, I'm a time blocker. Time blocker, okay. Yeah, so I'm not a big I like to grapple with Like, okay, I have a meeting here, I have to like pick my Here's the actual hours and where they fall. All right, what do I want Well, okay, now that I see in the middle of the maybe there I'm going to do a lot of small non-cognitively demanding thing. Oh, this first 90 minutes in the morning is like the main time Okay, so this, I'm going So I've been a big believer of this since I was an undergrad. Like you give your time a job which is somewhat orthogonal to what's actually happening in your day. And then just as you go &quot;What do I want to try to do next?&quot; Which I think is a lot less efficient. I'm going to try your method. I try and structure my but it just never quite works. Do you work late into No, I'm a 5:30 man. Okay. So 5:30 p.m., that's it? Yeah, more or less, that's my cutoff. Now one exception is if I'll sometimes, like if I I can do an evening writing session which I got used to I used to write my blog post at night after like my kids went to bed. Now they're older and they So it's like the one thing I have left that I'll do after 5:30 is I'll do like a 90-minute But I call this, by the I call fixed schedule productivity. And I've been doing it fix the work hour schedule, I work in these hours and then work downstream from So like this controls to bring into your life 'cause you know I can't go past the schedule and it drives you to be more innovative in how you deal with You have to be efficient because you only have these hours here. That's been a signal for my life since I was in my early 20s. Fix the schedule and don't Now it's your move to figure you have to make that work. You want to become a professor, figure out how to make that work. You want to write books while figure out how to make that work. You don't have the option of And you innovate a lot I think when you have the constraints. Where do sleep and exercise What's your typical to what's your typical exercise routine? And the reason I ask about this we hopefully people and cognitive function Yeah. And we're all going to live longer lives and be sharper mentally by doing exercise. Yeah, so, I mean, my main like actual working with weights, I do this pre-dinner, right. And this was an innovation it's a fantastic psychologically for me. This is a transition from work to like family time after work. So I'll do like 45, 50 minutes garage gym that we built during COVID after I'm done working before dinner. And once you get used to that I got to finish work 'cause I got to get this in before dinner. But then I'll do also if it's not a teaching I do a lot of thinking on foot, walking my kids to the bus stop which isn't particularly close and back. So I'll do a lot of walking. But my serious exercise Then I want to be up in our room by 10. And then at that point I don't track, so I have insomnia issues, which actually has been like key driver of a lot of the things I think about, especially with slow because I can without just find myself unable Fall asleep or stay asleep? Fall asleep, yeah. I mean, I used to get it really bad. Not so bad now but you That really affected the way because it seemed like of just I get after it wasn't really on the table because if my notion of like every day being on a bunch of stuff. I'm very busy, I have lots of commitments. What would happen if I couldn't sleep? I wouldn't be able to do towards a definition of it doesn't really matter but it is important that like writing a book. It doesn't matter if you work on your book chapter but like this month you have to spend a lot So it was like an of productivity was sort of slow productivity, So it's interesting. So like sleep issues really shaped the way I thought about work and put me on these much longer Try not to be dependent being critical to what you do. I don't want the high stress situation. I don't want the like I'm just going to, 10 hours a day for the next 10 days, we're going to make this deal happen. Like I can't operate in that anytime my brain could betray me and I could like lose I think it's really important because while people's challenges differ, I think oftentimes people or other podcasts and think, &quot;Oh, gosh, I have to have When in fact, most all of that have been discussed are in response to a particular or that others close to me have had. And I love this. Well, I'm sorry that you we have a series on sleep with Matt Walker in which he lays out some great tools that we haven't yet I'll just send you, I'll with a short list of those as we do cover insomnia in some depth. But I think it's important that they can be very productive with the hours that they or hours of high focus even if they're not sleeping great, even if they're raising small children because that's the real world and certainly that's the and academia but family and and jet lag and arguments Vacations, so sounds like your day to what's going on around it but that you have certain Am I correct in assuming that of say, 60 to 90 minutes of real, what you would call deep work, let's say at least five days a week? I know that might be an underestimate but it seems like that's what- That the goal. That's what I'm extracting from this. That's the goal, right? So to me, depending on the season, is how extreme that can get. So the busiest season would be like a teaching semester, right? But even then I'm going to make sure that five days a week I'm and the non-teaching days are Compare that to the summer, all I do for the most part is deep work. No meetings on Mondays and Fridays, all admin stuff is midday Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday. Everything else is deep work, you know? Just locked in, hours at a time. But I want, if I'm not getting five days, five days of starting I'm unhappy, right? Because I mean, I keep because I'm not going to be able to, I mean, fortunately, the insomnia hasn't bothered me in like completely shaped the and because I know I'm never going to be, have a sort of like an Elon I can just take on seven companies and make it happen, right? I just don't have that ability. I've always focused on the long game and to me the long game plays out with get your deep work time in, you know? Just keep working on the stuff you do best and get better at it, you know? Tomorrow doesn't matter. But if you're doing this most like that's going to matter, you know? And so I often think about at the scale of decades. Like what do I want to Okay, what do I want to do in my 30s? You know, what do I want to do in my 40s? And that helps. Like in my 30s, I had a lot yeah, I mean, the amount of is like much less, right? But I could still think about How do I make that happen? Let me make sure I'm pushing Then everything else I can adapt to, I can give here and there, you know? It allows you to be very adaptable when you're thinking for the next 10 years. It also means you're chiding yourself because like, why didn't I get three And that becomes sort of And what you care about in the next decade, which It's not about hustling today. It's about, I came back to deep when other people got Like I got to, yeah, whatever, it's that coming back to Thank you for tuning into the If you enjoyed the clip please check out the full