The project at hand right now is dealing with this excavator I think I ruined the motor. So let's bring it to the shop and figure out what's going on with it. Russ: That thing is just going to fall Is this working or is this stupid? Alfred: The teeth are hitting the truck.. Andrew: I need to get it in further. Might need you to sit there and hold the levers in so the boom can move Russ: You're in All right, let's get that out. I am going to stay super organized here. I'm going to take a bunch of pictures putting it together Things like bolts; to make sure you know, in case this is out of here where they were. So there's no way That way you're not stuck with a pile of bolts Is there no coolant in this? wow. That radiator. When this stoped running, it had a temperature light and an oil pressure light, this thing didn't have any coolant in it temperature sensor tells it to start Charges it broken wrench Thatwas hitting radiator fan. The fan is hitting that. So I got to say, Or were frustrating. That came out easy. took 3 hours. I just spoke to the gentleman. I'm going to have helped rebuild this. And he he pretty much said, take everything off of it. I may have ripped that ground strap Maybe that would have came out anyway. What about that one. Lets try them all with this This isn't going to break them That does work Look at that That's definitely an A I was trying to take it and the weird thing is every rotation makes those closer to each other. I mean, it's like getting further now its two away. that wasn't cooling anything. That needs to be rebuilt Okay, here's the engine rebuild kit. It comes with new sleeves, connecting rod bearings, piston bearings This should fix it. Joe: It might not get it Andrew: It's quite the setup That should work A couple weeks later entire new center section all soldered together. It's like a brand new radiator. I'm realizing Yeah, its going 12 point doesn't even bite on it The head was rusted smaller Looks easier to put that engine in now It looks brand new I like how he stamped it was rebuilt 1/24 Joe: Everything went good; the bearings were right, it came with new valve So these are the valves I took out. I didn't bother cleaning them up One of those buttons will do it, Good thing I took photos Look at this line cracked right here. I think this is the reason It slowly And the person I had operating it when the temperature light was on This already loose? Can I see the frisbee? I'll throw it for you You don't give it to me. See, that's how it should go. I'm going to line up the timing marks exactly how it was. From the bottom. One, two, three, four. One, two, three, four. So right there. Pretty clean yeah, look at that. Right down my list. Top hose breather and water pump. little different. You know, I'd rather Use that one Forgot to unhook that I hear a dog knocking Well, hello. This needs to be in here now See, I had this nut and I didn't know where it went. It's got to go somewhere, before This has three nuts on it Easier with a shorter bolt There we go Yeah. I got it Low battery Okay, I mean, it's taken some amps, but not like it should better off but being that its sparking, it is pulling in some amps so that battery might come back the next morning Why is it 16? That's weird That's weird. Okay, well that's got. That's good. Leaking oil right there And we have an oil pressure warning, lets shut this down Well, it runs Oh, its just loose Make sure the coolant is still full Yeah, its right there That's what it did when it blew up. That makes it quite unplugged Low voltage warning. It's got oil pressure. Okay, I wanted to check that. New oil pressure sensor should be no oil pressure light when it runs. And when I shut it down, we get oil pressure, light and voltage. That means that blade control Thats the blade control right there kind of broke this end here. The cable's not seized. Is this supposed to move? Look at that. I think this is it here. The cable moves easy. that should be moving. Dave: Keep going down? Actually, technically, That works This wrench is broken where it should be right where it should be. Oh, why is there coolant here? that was a little loose I got the right one of these This hour gauge I did test that. I got a new one. Heavy wash This one got pretty messed up. No wonder that wouldn't start. If anyone wants a chance link in the description for that. All right, There it is installed. So there's the inlet right there. Catching any water All of it. And here's the outlet. I am going to put gravel on this All right. Well, I'm going to kind of end this video in this excavator This project took almost two years to do, I do like this machine. It wasn't high priority This is all done. work on something else.