Normal maps are useless inside black holes. of no return as you approach a black hole We need new coordinate systems to trace paths we draw using those coordinates reveal something the black hole, but continue beyond. In these universes lie on the other side. Cartographers grid up the surface of the Earth every point on the planet can be clearly defined and south poles, that is. There, all lines south. We call these points coordinate singularities. becomes infinite - and a single swivel at at an infinite rate. The coordinate singularity spherical coordinate system used to grid the entirely - for example, you can expand the approach the pole so that those lines don't and you have the Mercator projection - a perfectly as you remember that Greenland isn't really To map the universe we need 3 dimensions of time. And maps of the universe in this 4-dimensional - for example around the black hole. Our first map of the spacetime of a black a relatively simple bit of algebra derived after Einstein published his general theory path of an object moving in the insane gravitational inside the black hole - beneath the inescapable regions, the Schwarzschild metric canNOT be the event horizon. That's because at the the point of view of a distant observer. And of that observer's units of space and time. horizon in terms of their own clock, the moment chasing the tortoise in Zeno's paradox - Achilles step, and so never closes the gap. Of course Achilles WOULD actually catch the fall through the event horizon. The event the earth's poles, and to make a smooth of a black hole. In the Mercator projection, the separation factor that depends on their latitude - and at the poles, to cancel out the converging fuse time with a something called a tortoise a measure of distance that becomes infinitesimally cancels out the infinite stretching of time event horizon. The first such scheme was Eddington-Finkelstein of the event horizon was an illusion. Kruskal-Szekeres that the trajectory of light always be at diagram, the event horizon becomes is also has a constant physical size. Because nothing can travel faster than light, are accessible. Close to the event horizon, window of escape. Once inside the event horizon, These days Penrose coordinates are even more diagrams, space and time also bunch up at fits on the one diagram. Well, the whole universe? In the Mercator projection, we know that lines at the edge of the page - they loop. General relativity uses null geodesics - the and we also assume that those lines don't flapping in the wind. The only place geodesics center of the black hole. On our Penrose diagram, from the black hole to infinite distance, black hole and be lost. That's all fine. far away towards the black hole - no problem the other direction? These don't have a We say this Penrose diagram is geodesically undefined origins. This is equivalent to saying the Penrose coordinates within the Schwarzschild those coordinates to their full extent, we solution - and it reveals strange new regions If we trace our light ray backwards from our just like the black hole - but with time reversed. - but perhaps we'll get a little more insight an even stranger region. This c orner. The rays backwards from within the black hole. this region LOOKS like our universe. In fact our universe, at least in terms of the coordinates Questions abound: is this parallel universe I should say - the map I just drew is for hole. One whose coordinates do not change We'll see later how things change in the of a star. For now, let's see if we can travel to the The only way to pass between these universes that by the fact that the only paths shallower But imagine you could travel at infinite speed would dip beneath the event horizons and emerge an Einstein-Rosen bridge - a wormhole. We'll another time - today we're interested in universe on the other side. Let's say you drop into a black hole to hole, space and time have switched roles. singularity - it's the old radial direction, crushing demise. These lines are the old time Once inside the black hole what do you see? - those are photons that overtake you heading also reach you from below - that's light trying to escape and will ultimately fail, But for now you overtake that light and get never actually see the singularity - that in which the space around you becomes infinitely So what do you do? You can turn around and can travel faster than light you'll emerge you. Or you can plunge faster than light towards this way. Against intuition, traveling faster you to the singularity more quickly - instead into the parallel universe. Within the black AND ahead of you. But only superluminal speeds Assuming you could reach the parallel universe, is divided. Some think that the parallel universe of the regular universe and black hole - that Just as with the Mercator projection, traveling brings you back somewhere else in the same reflection works. Perhaps you emerge from in time, or from the future black hole but look like falling into the black hole to someone Confusing. And it's okay that this doesn't always leads to silly paradoxes because it's Not only is faster than light travel impossible, The parallel universe and white hole are needed hole in order for geodesics to have somewhere collapsing stars - there's no white hole any outgoing light ray can be traced back to its interior. Even though the parallel universe of the Schwazschild are intriguing possibilities. That Einstein-Rosen different parts of THIS universe, and could a huge if, but it would allow instant travel of rotating black holes, the traversable wormhole easy to dismiss as is the Schwarzschild black path through a Kerr black holes into parallel Hey Everyone. Welcome to the new Space Time in lockdown, but as you can see we are doing Time every week. Okay today we're doing on rotating black holes and quantum darwinism. Eddy Mich always thought entanglement could thinking about is the principle of monogamy quantum state can only be maximally entangled here is &quot;maximal&quot;. As an example, the spin are perfectly correlated as being in opposite know with perfect certainty the spin of the spin state. If the electron then interacts electron spin states are entangled, then that entanglement or at least introduce some level can be completely tranfered, or it can be to the correlation between any two particles. SaintCergue gives a nice analogy to describe function which selects quantum states immune it, but actually ALL entanglement gets diffused. states to become correlated with macroscopic through the environment, but in a coherent quantum state. John Cramer wants to know how big an explosion requests a whole video. Well for the video have some more details and better animations. as much rotational energy as the black hole that's 40% of its total mass - all released any ridiculously energetic process - now multiply number. Impressive, right? Cliff86 points out that the way quantum states seems analogous to the second law of thermodynamics Nice observation - but it's not just analogous connected. I've been meaning to get around von neumann entropy, and how it relates to Yuval Nehemia points out that Wojciech Zurek That was the first thing I thought. Happy