- Today it's all about hooded eye makeup, specifically winged eyeliner for hooded eyes. Let's jump in. So what are hooded eyes? It's pretty much when you have this skin, this flap, or this hood, and it's covering most of your eyelid. So your crease is not really visible. Your eyelid is not really visible when you're looking straight and your eyes are open. So you can see I have a good Amount of hood happening. So that means I have hooded eyes. So when it comes to eyeliner, I do have to use a specific technique to basically have the eyeliner show up when my eyes are wide open. So we have two techniques. We're gonna do one that I use and love, and the other one that I just found today, and wanna try it out and see if I like it better or if it looks better on my eye shape. Let's try it together. The first eyeliner technique for hooded eyes is going to be the new one. And this one, we're gonna start going down instead of up or straight. So I'm using Huda Beauty, and this is her Life Liner Quick and Easy. So I'm gonna start from the top. Instead of going up at a diagonal, I'm gonna go down. I'm gonna go a little bit more. I'm gonna look straight into the mirror, have my eyes wide open, and then find where the flap is or the skin that's going over my crease, and place the dot right there. So you can see it right there, my line. I'm gonna place a dot. And that means I'm not gonna go above with the eyeliner. And then right here, this is where I start going up. And I can actually close, and I'm gonna connect that dot to the line. - [Andrey] So did you use Huda eyeliner for hooded eyes on purpose? - No, but that's hilarious. That's genius. I didn't think of that- - [Andrey] So Huda eyeliner for &quot;hooda&quot; eyes. (Andrey giggles) - Now I'm just gonna fill that in, and you can take out your wing as far as you want or as little as you want. There you go. Just clean that up a little bit. I just switched over to my KVD the Tattoo Liner, because this one I haven't used in a hot minute, and it dried out on me. So we're switching up eyeliners. I'm just going over to get a little bit more pigment. And then to clean up, I'm gonna take a Q-tip with a little bit of micellar water, or you can just use concealer, I'm gonna just clean this up just a little bit. And then in the inner corner, we're going to extend. It's already looking so good, but to intensify the outer lash line, to make it a little more cohesive, we're gonna take a black eyeliner and just tight line up to my pupil, or basically where I stopped with the wing, or the liquid eyeliner. Just like that. And I'm using Make Up For Ever, the Aqua Resist Color Pencil in shade number one, Graphite. I'm actually pretty impressed with how good that looks, even when I'm looking straight. Wow. Looks like I actually have a winged liner. Technique number two for hooded eyes, for winged eyeliner, this is the one that I saw from Katie Jane Hughes a while back, and I enjoy it. But I will say, I think this one is gonna be a little bit more, well, it's gonna require a little more precision. And I enjoy that technique, well, this technique that I'm gonna do with either a gel eyeliner pencil or an eyeshadow, just because I think it does require a little more technique. But we are gonna use a liquid eyeliner, I wanna compare the same formulas and see which one I prefer one-to-one. So this one you can line your entire eyelid, which I'm going to do. And then I'm gonna look a little more straight and like down, have most of my eyelid basically closed, or covered. And then I'm gonna start drawing this up, and I'm gonna bring it back to connect, Like so... So when I open it, you see there's a gap. And that's basically where the flap, or the skin is covering my crease, the hood. Hooded eyes. Get it? All right, so I'm gonna look straight again, and basically the eyeliner is gonna be connected now. And I'm gonna fill in where it's connected. And then open, and you can see it kinda has like a little bat wing. But you can see a difference right away. Oh, wow. I don't know which one I like more. Oh, boy, as Andrey says. And I'm gonna close it and just fill in the areas that are looking a little patchy. And then just open it. And then I'm going to intensify the wing a little bit. And I'm gonna do the same thing. I'm gonna tight line the left side with the original technique. Wow, that's a big difference. I need to clean this up right here. I just completely changed the shape of my eyes. Wow. Let's apply some mascara to finish off the hooded eyes, and we'll see which liner, winged eyeliner technique looks better. I'm using e.l.f. Lash N' Roll mascara. I'm gonna focus most of the mascara towards the outer lashes just to intensify the wing. So we have come to a conclusion. The original Katie Jane Hughes winged eyeliner for hooded eyes, it's a lot more dramatic, so I would suggest putting some false lashes to the outer portion of your eye. The new technique, this is great for every day. It looks a lot more natural. It's softer, it's not as intense, and in my opinion, was a little easier. You go down, up, and you fill it in. I mean, I think it looks great. Either way, you can't go wrong. But I would say the original technique, it's definitely a lot more intense, and it looks, when you look down, someone might think you didn't finish your eyeliner. You can always fill that in, but then I find a lot of times the eyeliner likes to smudge and transfer into my crease because of the overlapping, and that way, I get quite a bit of transfer. But this way, no transfer. Let me know which hooded eye makeup technique you prefer. Eyeliner one, eyeliner two. Thank you for watching, spending time with me, and I'll see you in the next one. Bye (kisses).