If you've ever wanted to know what personality type leads to being I started researching for this video intending to make something around Thor but I very quickly realized that the real person worth studying is Chris Hemsworth. He's one of the greatest guys I've ever met. ...but isn't like the dynamic between you two when you're on set. It's magical. It's really, uh... it's sweet and it's very nurturing. Now sweet and nurturing aren't normally words that men used to describe other men but there are four things about Chris that seem Even castmates that started out not wanting to like him end up raving about him. I just needed something to be wrong with him. And there is nothing. Nothing at all. And also for the four of you, it must be very annoying that you got to think, And the hyper for his latest movie Thor Ragnarok is off the charts because we finally found a director that's willing to let Chris and Thor [Applause] Yes! We know each other. He's a friend from work. Oh, come on. Host: He's a more you in Thor this time around. And it literally transformed Thor from the worst-ranked By the way, I saw the movie last night. This might be the best Marvel movie of all. I don't know how they keep doing it. Now it's worth saying part of his appeal is absolutely that he's great-looking -- there's no doubt -- about it but everything we talked about So let's take a look at Chris's personality and what makes him so special. First, Chris Hemsworth is hilarious. The fact that Thor Ragnarok is being called the funniest Marvel movie yet is a testament to this because the movie was mostly improvised. We've covered humor a lot in previous videos so this video will mostly center around other traits that are more unique to Chris Hemsworth but it's worth noting because it's definitely a big part of why people like him so much. Do you need Chris to lean back a little bit? Otherwise, you're right my shot. So anyway, uh... Are we competitive? Not at all... [Host laughing] Here Chris uses a great and easy-to-use principle called Do the Opposite. You don't want to use an abuse this but it's an If you want to deep dive into this type of playful self-amusing humor, I will put a link to a breakdown we did on Chris Pratt at the end of this video. Now that said, there's one common theme in Chris's He almost always chooses to put himself on the same team as other I lead his fanbase. I'm finally a member of that one too. They're calling for a Loki movie. We are. Is it we now? Or how he playfully assures Chris Evans that he's got his back and then later on, how he answers when asked the one thing that's a must-have at a party. Evans: &quot;Well, this is gonna sound strange but...&quot; Hemsworth: God, I'm with you. I'm right here with you. It's Chris Evans -- a must-have in a party, let me tell you. This may seem like a small thing but he doesn't time and time again. And there are real benefits to defaulting to that type of humor. One, it makes people laugh; two, it makes your friends feel great and really like being around you; and three, you lift yourself up as well and you do it without bragging because if your friends are awesome, it stands to I don't want to give anything away but you'll see this in Thor Ragnarok 2. Now, one caveat here -- this has to be done right We'll go through how to walk that fine line at the end of this video. First, I want to point out two quick things about making jokes that elevate people. It's important to keep these short. I have a friend -- a really, really nice well-intentioned guy -- who tries his best to do this for me whenever we go out. But he drags it on for so long that even though it starts by getting Chris Hemsworth avoids this completely by throwing in a funny And the last point on this -- it's worth noting that he's not like this 100% of the time. He definitely teases people but they receive it well For example, watch Chris Evans lose his mind in this next clip. ...those slide of Thor that's so great is you bring these slightly different nuances to Thor whether he's on Asgard or on earth or whatever you'd like. You bring new aspects whereas with Captain America, it's like-- He doesn't have nuance. [Everyone laughs] Yes! And then he does it again as soon as they've gathered themselves. And then we always see Captain America evolving into his leadership role but as we see you evolving, like, more and more as-- Hemsworth: [High-pitched &quot;Yeah&quot;] And what Chris does amazingly well is balance this playful jokester persona with another side of himself that is very genuine. I never was torturous at all so I'm incredibly proud of this. This creates depth in him and is a very powerful thing that you can do too. There are certain emotions we all share -- pride after working hard, fear of not being good enough, envy of the success or achievements of others, and so on. If you can share them honestly without fear of judgment, it's really powerful. The second thing Chris Hemsworth is incredible at is touch. Touch is something we get asked about often -- how, where, when -- Touch is incredibly important for human interaction Studies have shown it increases trust and liking amongst friends and co-workers and can even lower blood pressure, heart rate, and the stress hormone cortisol. That said, if done wrong, touch can create awkwardness and make people uncomfortable around you. I didn't know this before making this video but Chris Hemsworth is easily one of the touchiest people I have ever seen and there are a ton of great little details about touch to learn from watching Chris. So there it is. There is your answer to who is funny in the room. Interviewer: Can I ask about that? What's that about? And I know now we're trying to share the punch off but what it looks like is Now I know that some people are very uncomfortable both touching others and being touched and I'm not saying you have to do this to be likable or charismatic but I am saying that it helps a lot. That said, there are three principles that will First, be a universal toucher. Touch everyone. Obviously, not equally; certain relationships to the person will impact the level of touch but as you saw, Chris will reach out to his co-workers, his director, later you'll see he does it to a reporter, and I even found one example here where Chris is meeting someone for the first time. It's Paul McCartney; that's cool. It's pretty awesome, yeah. [Audience laughs] Becoming a universal toucher is a great habit to incorporate because it conveys confidence without much effort and without needing the conversational spotlight. Just the fact that Chris is so comfortable touching Being a universal toucher is especially important if you're a guy. I've spoken to many female friends about this and there's nothing creepier than being a woman who's meeting a new guy who seems Being a universally touchy person conveys warmth and confidence. Singling out one person has the potential to feel predatory. That's actually another reason why I highly recommend Start incorporating touch with your friends and family and not just when flirting because when you incorporate touch into your non-sexual relationships, you get used to touching without it being creepy or having any sexual motives. That brings me to my second touch principal -- adjust where you touch and how long you touch based on your relationship to the person, how the conversation has gone, and their body language. Do they tighten and freeze up or do they welcome it? This is also going to vary extremely based on what country and culture you're in. To highlight this, check out the difference in touch when Chris is with an acquaintance See you, buddy. Here we are. I can say we're sitting a lot closer to each other than-- Two cultures together -- the warrior tribes in Australia, yeah. Now obviously, that's an over-the-top example but it just highlights the importance of calibrating your touch to who you're with. The opposite of that would be to be what I call a lingerer where you're always touching for too long and you're never I won't explain the circumstances because he might be watching but I have an acquaintance who makes everyone around him very uncomfortable because he'll start rubbing your shoulders or your back for way too long without checking to see if you've tightened up or are touching back and, spoiler, no one is ever touching back with this person. The opposite and equally awkward side of that If you touch like you're terrified of how the person will react it becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy and is destined to be awkward. So what's a good rule of thumb for how to touch? That's principle number three -- make it feel good. That may sound obvious to you but the way Chris touches his male friends is very different to how most men touch each other in Western society. We have a lot of aggressive overcompensating in our culture where guys will slap each other really hard on the back or punch each other in the arm. Maybe some guys just love being slapped and five-start but I think that a lot of it comes from being terrified that any sort of nice physical contact with a man will suddenly have them labeled something pejorative. Chris clearly does not share this fear. Notice how he gives a There's no hesitation, it's clearly non-sexual, and you can tell Mark is comfortable the whole time and even reciprocate. Probably not. Yeah, whole new version of the big gray monsters, you know? This segues really nicely into the third thing that Chris Hemsworth Chris shares potentially embarrassing things about himself as if they are not a big deal and he speaks as if he is unconcerned with being judged negatively especially for not being quote-unquote manly enough. For example, here is with Jimmy Fallon where Jimmy is ...and I saw this photo; it's all over the internet. This is your brother Jimmy: and he got his nails painted or something like that; what is he doing-- And instead, when a lot of men might be embarrassed to say it, Chris shares that he also had his nails painted that day. Jimmy: Dude, what is the story behind this? No, you didn't. No, we didn't. My daughter and my nieces painted everybody's This is an incredibly charismatic trait. By sharing these things as if Here's another example where he's asked who his movie crush is. My cinematic crush? Robin Wright Penn in Princess Bride. I just watched that the other day actually. Uh, she's just so incredibly beautiful and confident and strong and smart and witty and I love that movie. He doesn't hesitate for a second to say those things. It screams confidence and this isn't just limited to masculinity and femininity. This applies to anything you do where you might feel embarrassed. What's great about committing to this is you basically only give If you decide that you're going to stop hiding anything that you do from other people, you'll end up living a life you're more proud of, your confidence will skyrocket, and you'll end up attracting the right kind of people into your life. The fourth thing Chris Hemsworth does better Let's rewatch that Jimmy Kimmel clip where Jimmy says this may I don't know how they keep doing it; it's unbelievable. I'll tell you how -- it's Taika Waititi. Chris is the title character. He plays a huge part in why the film is getting such This will be especially useful for you if you're someone who spends time or a work environment that involves managing other people or having a manager. Selfish people who are scared they aren't good enough will try to take all the credit for things because they think it makes them look better. This fails in two ways -- one, people like humility and if you share the praise, it will make the people around you trust you when you say And two, life is a long-term game. By sharing the praise and being complimentary, Chris creates great relationships with other people Now they all benefit because they were part of an excellent movie. This may seem to be limited only the movies or performances By building close relationships with your boss, you And by forming better relationships with the people Here he is again cutting off a chance to be praised So who's funnier? Wait, wait, wait. There's a third person in this conversation. And here he is crediting Kate Blanchet and Mark Ruffalo We call it The Contact Eye. You kind of stand as much as what happens when I stand next to Ruffalo. Now how does Chris make these compliments come off as genuine and not fake? I don't know for him but for myself and everyone I've worked with in coach; the answer is pretty simple but it's effective -- The second tricky part about compliments is -- how do you You have to calibrate this to your social status That's why a compliment from boss to employee can make an employee's day but a compliment from employee to boss might seem It depends what you compliment and what comes before and after it. That's a longer topic but I'll link to a video on the four emotions that It's part of our Charisma University program so we don't have it on YouTube but if you click the link and drop your email Putting those four emotions in the wrong order is One other thing worth noting -- Chris hemsworth has an amazing voice. I literally just made a video on voice so I'll link to both that and the Chris Pratt video in the description and if you enjoyed this video, click the Subscribe button to get more like this every Monday and Thursday.