Having the sun as your neighbour deadly radiation, and the onslaught of it the most welcoming part of the these challenges make Mercury a particularly even though it's much closer to us than Jupiter Still, scientists managed to send Mercury. Mariner 10 flew by in the 1970s, which was the first probe to ever And now, as I speak, a third Mercury mission is over 177 million kilometres away from Earth. BepiColombo, a labour of love between the Aerospace Exploration Agency, is set carry out a comprehensive study of the planet's But, as they say, the journey is the destination. I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching Astrum. captured of Mercury so far, why it's travelling and what we are hoping to learn On October 20th, 2018, BepiColombo took beginning its seven year journey to Mercury. Its trajectory would take it around the The first was an extremely close flyby of within just 12,700 km of our planet's surface, Chile. Its journey will then take it on two three of which are due to happen in September, the mighty spacecraft will cover a Taking such a long route was the only before approaching Mercury's orbit. But if the spacecraft arrived with too much planet and get sucked into the Sun's BepiColombo was designed to complement and the MESSENGER probe. While BepiColombo carries it is equipped with higher-calibre tools Additionally, MESSENGER's orbit of Mercury was south pole, meaning we have great detail and almost non-existent data on the southern by examining Mercury from an orbital angle BepiColombo is a very unique spacecraft. probes and a propulsion module - together in a united configuration Run by ESA, the Mercury Planetary Orbiter, or while JAXA's Mercury Magnetospheric Orbiter, planet's suspiciously low magnetic field that has actually chosen by the Japanese general public. it symbolises the scientific milestones reached Mio and the MPO sit on either side of an Mercury Transfer Module. Stacking the different but not all, of the scientific instruments on settles into its orbit around Mercury. At from the spacecraft and go their separate points. But don't worry, there's still enough Why don't we take a look back at how far this and explore some of the amazing BepiColombo's first encounter with Mercury kilometres above the planet's surface, As it drifted past, BepiColombo snapped Mercury's it might look like our rocky, inert moon. But could hold the key to deciphering Mercury's crust of volcanic activity, and mysterious pockets crust is being lost to space - and scientists remind us just how enigmatic Mercury is, Another camera mounted on the spacecraft caught left the planet's volcanic history on full 250 kilometres wide, the Haydn crater comes one of Mercury's many bright spots probably formed Even though MESSENGER had already shown us amazing that this activity left a mark visible And BepiColombo didn't just show us how the You know how your phone has an accelerometer orientation changes? Scientists mounted a It measured the movements and vibrations creating a sort of sound map of the data to frequencies us humans can actually I'll play it for you now. Pay attention beginning - they represent the changes spacecraft enters and then exits toward the end is the sound of the PHEBUS Here's the clip... Pretty cool, right? I've got BepiColombo captured magnetic field later deciphered and &quot;sonified&quot; by is a little more abstract than the You're going to hear two synthesisers changes pitch with the changing magnitude pitch means more intensity in the magnetic field. The second synthesiser changes pitch with the turbulent magnetic field is represented by a line shows where the closest approach was. After sounds like a DJ scratching a disk - lots of when the spacecraft crosses the magnetosheath, Let's have a listen. On June 23rd, 2022 - just journey - BepiColombo crossed This time, the spacecraft turned impact crater - Caloris Basin. At it's actually one of the widest known craters created by the collision of a comet, asteroid, or The highly-reflective lava craters on bright semicircular area of Mercury's The second flyby gave us beautiful images of Like this one of Heany - a crater embedded an ancient volcano which BepiColombo plans to Almost exactly a year later, on June 19th, 2023, BepiColombo reapproached Mercury The flyby images captured the one of many lobate scarps on Mercury that was our moon, Mercury is the only planetary this tectonic signature. When the interior global contraction and surface expression Beagle Rupes has an especially pronounced on Mercury - offering geologists a rare As a result of the third BepiColombo flyby, received the name Manley, after 20th century basin floor was flooded by lava, giving the BepiColombo will explore Manley Crater its carbon composition and detect any in order to learn more about Gliding past Mercury on its most recent flyby, images. At 236 kilometres above the surface, Scientists back home on Earth will have to wait Now, these flybys are more than an revealed important nuances of the planet's One of the instruments aboard the MPO probe Ultraviolet Spectroscopy. PHEBUS uses UV emission and only atmospheric layer, to determine its surface. It does this by detecting specific types ranging from 55 to 315 nanometers. By capturing it helps us figure out what the exosphere is As BepiColombo emerged from Mercury's shadow, calcium, confirming earlier findings from of calcium in the planet's exosphere - its night side. Interestingly, this observed for sodium and potassium, which Once in orbit around Mercury, PHEBUS will be of Mercury's exosphere composition and dynamics, Speaking of MESSENGER - back in its day, it discovered ice on Mercury's north pole. continuing the search for ice in permanently As you might know, Mercury is the only planet similar to Earth's. Thanks to its liquid which creates an innate magnetic field around the 1.1% that of Earth's magnetic field, leaving One of the big goals of the BepiColombo mission is only the magnetic activity of the by NASA's MESSENGER mission. Scientists light on the dynamics of the planet's This magnetic field is of great scientists aim to shed light on Mercury's and the current state of the planet's interior. of Mercury's magnetosphere on different the magnetic field changes over time and space, All this new data from the BepiColombo global magnetic field models from the Messenger of Mercury's magnetic field, which could unlock As we await BepiColombo's next Mercury understanding Mercury continues. The spacecraft a prolonged solar electric propulsion 'thruster until mid-September. Thruster arcs, along with the enormous gravitational pull of the Sun. This around Mercury, when the time comes. the real exploration begins. "Mercury's heavily history of asteroid and comet bombardment, volcanic curiosities will help scientists unlock evolution," - BepiColombo MCAM imaging team, ESA BepiColombo is set to remain in orbit around might get the green light for an extra year on like never before - from its composition to its both its history and the history of other Until then, we've got a few and the haunting pictures they're bound The universe is full of beauty but when we're see it sometimes when your mental health is brain runs in circles diminishing your ability to you're stressed about being stressed. But it feels because you worry others will think poorly of therapists can be so vital because having someone make all the difference. Better Help the paid that connects you up to therapists around the themselves, making it much easier for you to really can and hear you out. Opening up about think that Better Help might be able to help you, choosing Astrum during sign up, will give you a Since the last video I was honestly blown away by sent me. And by the numbers of you that signed up DMs on Patreon, everyone here at the Astrum Team if you haven't joined the Patreon party yet, member drive, so you can go to the link in the