- Good afternoon, and welcome to the SPR Futurist Series on &quot;21 Lessons for the 21st Century&quot; in partnership with the IMF Library. I am Martin Muhleisen. I'm the director of the Strategy Policy and Review department here at the fund and our department and the library are organizing this event today. As you know, the Futurist from other ways of to the fund, to spark new ideas and force to diversity of thought. We may hear about certain We may encounter views that but I think we all agree in considering other perspectives. This is also a mission of the IMF Library which fosters discovery, to advance the work of the fund. With this we are really delighted to have Professor Yuval If you visited a book you are sure to have previous books on the history and future of human civilization. Published in 2014, &quot;Sapiens: has become an international best seller and is published in nearly In 2016, Professor Harari published &quot;Homo Deus: A Brief History of Tomorrow&quot; which met with a similar reception from an enthralled global audience and his latest book which as our seminar today has &quot;21 Lessons for the 21st Century&quot;. Professor Harari has also such as The FT, The Times, The Guardian and is on topics explored in and for the sake of academic completeness, he received his PhD from in 2002 and is currently a of History at the Hebrew Some of the themes that have Series are the need skills training and the is uniquely human, including and provide people with These themes also appear with a further examination to be Homo Sapiens in today's world. We are looking forward discussion with the managing director and with that, I turn it over - Thank you so much Martin today, Professor, because of the com du selectra, which by Elvira Nabiullina who is of Russia and this afternoon, we have you! So, it's really a fantastic day. We talked about monetary and we talk about all sorts and that's also the beauty by the Strategy and Policy It gives everybody a chance to be inspired by broader thinkers than just us. So thank you very much from Israel, via wherever - In New York. - New York, so thank you so much for choosing us as the day after moment. So, you know, when thought of inviting you, it wasn't without creating a bit of a buzz, because in various writings of yours, we seem to understand that the future is not necessarily for economists. The future is more likely to be for poets for philosophers, for ethical experts, but economists, maybe not, but maybe yes. So, you'll have to tell us about that. - I'll just say that the and poets is much smaller (cheering and laughing) I often say that the best are the economists. Because they are the one that everybody believes. (laughing) Almost everybody. - Weather forecasters among that, right? That's interesting. We'll because you make the point about stories and how useful, not useful and what kind of stories we need around. But, let me just mention, has indicated that, but your book, &quot;21 Lessons for the 21st Century&quot;, is available to all of in the lecture. Is that so? Okay, so please... - Those who leave the room or the conversation is over, will not get a book. (laughter) And then when it's over, you have to rush! And a few will probably have a dedicace from you which would be a real treat. I've tried, and we continue to try, on a regular basis, to the future will be. And we call that the sort of, scenario planning. Now you took that exercise very far and some of your critics would call you an You say things like &quot;No automation, current completely obsolete, may be taken over by will increasingly become concentrated in the hands of the few.&quot; This is probably similar uncertainty scenarios, but we hope will actually develop. In your books, and you seem to be much more this future, and what is the point about explaining all that? - Well, I see my job not as I think it's impossible. Nobody really knows how will in 2050 or 2100. I see it more as mapping in the hope that we will and yes, it is true that and also in my talks, to scenarios because there job it is to emphasize Certainly when it comes to the chronology, it's quite natural and develop the new technologies, and so forth, both the scientists and also the entrepreneurs, they naturally emphasize that AI can do for us. And there are many wonderful but then it becomes the job of historians and philosophers and social critics to balance the picture and say, wait a minute, there are also a few dangerous scenarios. Now, I do my best to tell people, look, I'm not a prophet. I don't know what's going to happen. And there is no point, If you know for sure that and nothing we do can change that, what's the point of telling people. - Yeah - It will happen, so... I try to focus on the dangerous scenarios in the hope that we can - So you are sending, and particularly with a bit of an alarm signal, - Mm-hmm. - and we can do something about it. - Yes, we can certainly but again, I try to emphasize also by looking back, that no technology has ever deterministic. You can use the same different kinds of societies. We have seen it in the 20th century, that you can use trains and electricity to create a dictatorships The trains don't care. They work for both. It's up to us to decide what It's the same with AI. It can create a wonderful the basis for the rise and all kinds of extremely - You make a point in your book, as well, that we talk a lot about are concerned about that the consequences of and so forth. Your point is that it's the end of it. It's combined with which for the moment a little - Yeah. - that there will be Can you explain that a little bit? - Yes, I think what we are is not an infotech revolution, of two revolutions, infotech and biotech. And without the biotech is not going to transform What is going to transform of AI with an increasing and of the human brain. You could say that the most important fact about living in the 21st becoming hackable animals. And you have these two from biology and from biotech, and the hacking comes from But, for almost any change you need to take biology into account. Even something like a self-driving car, which you say, what's the Why is biotech relevant Well, without biotech you because a self-driving in a city full of pedestrians and certainly human passengers, it needs to be able to and human emotions. A car which doesn't understand you won't want such a car on the road. - But can't you have so many data, and so much mining, and so on multiple human behavior, really need the biotech all that and can anticipate? - But that data you're accumulating it's really about the human and it's not enough just to You need to have models Take a very simple but I think it makes the point. You need to take into account how children behave and how adults behave, and the different ways that brains work at age 10 and age 20. For a self-driving car on the road, it's important to first, be between a child and an of that human being and what's the difference in behavior between an 8 year old, an 18 year old and an 80 years old person. And that's critical, a self-driving car. When you reach the point where you say, okay, I want an AI doctor, to replace or augment human there it's obvious that without biotech you are not going to get very far. - Mm-hmm. Do you think there could be - Certainly. I think it will be, It will have immense benefits for humans, and it will also have a lot of dangers. - But why would you say - Because, for example, say monitors, let's take that people talk about, that with biometric sensors and they constantly send information to... - So you're monitored. From, you are monitored all the time. - You are monitored all the time. The information goes to an AI doctor, maybe on your smart phone or whatever, which analyzes all this and monitors your health in a way which no human doctor can even approach. And it can do things like diagnose cancer when it's still just beginning, and it's still very, very easy and cheap and painless to cure it. Instead of waiting for a couple of years until it spreads and you one day wake up and you feel a bit of pain, and it becomes worse and worse. You go to the doctor. They send you to all kinds of tests and by the time they find out, maybe it's not too late, but a long painful expensive So the promises are enormous, And not just to the job market. In other things regular doctors? They lose their job. - Depends. They, they need, they and change what they do. Certainly, if most of what comes in, you recognize a pattern, and you make a diagnosis, will be much, much better than humans. Nurses for example, are much safer, than these kinds of doctors. - Okay, explain to me. - Because, if everything you do, is just analyze information, you gather information on a patient, and then again you recognize the pattern, oh, this is the pattern of lung cancer, or this is the pattern of flu, and this is the best treatment, then this is the easiest But if you actually need to that person, if you a bandage or to give a shower, - Yeah. - I mean, we are going to we have AI nurses. - Yeah, I mean, this is a finding, that particularly in Japan, The difficulty of inventing that robot which is going to lift which is just almost - Yeah, and... - Unless you have the human - Exactly, and people often think that, no we are not going to have AI doctors, because a good doctor my disease and recommend treatment, the doctor must understand Must take into account my fears, my anger, my depression, this is And people say, oh, an AI But, this doesn't really make much sense, because at least as far anger and fear and depression, processes, biochemical patterns, If the AI can diagnose flu, and the fact that it doesn't actually makes it, in many because it has no your human doctor maybe had a fight with her but she's still kind of from this morning. An AI doctor has no - For the moment. - For the moment. So the AI can focus 100% on you. And you know, people go through life wanting somebody to understand me, somebody to understand how I feel. People are obsessed with it. I want my mother to understand me. I want my husband to understand me. I want my president to understand me. (audience laughs) it becomes a contest of I and you want me to understand you. And very often we miss each other. - So it blows the judgment. - But with an AI, the AI doesn't want you to understand it. It is 100% focused on you. And it reacts, if it of sophistication, it can to your personality type, Actually the danger, I think, so used to computers that are so empathic, that really understand me so deeply, that really care about my that humans will not be able to compete. We will become intolerable who don't understand us understand us. - There are a few books that that have been written on that page. You suggest, in your a universal, basic universal support, not basic universal income, that we've studied particularly last year in the fiscal affairs department. Do you think that's - I'm not sure. I don't know. I don't... It's, more seriously, - Because jobs would be affected, because the combination is going to outroot that are currently Those human being are going to have to reinvent themselves, - as you said. That has a cost, and they will need some First of all, what difference do you make between income and support? Is support more than income? - It's a different approach. - Yeah. - Whether we just go and give people, give a person a pile of money, do with it whatever you want, or you decide, this is the whether it's healthcare, and I'm going to give you but you don't get to So, it's a different approach. I don't suggest it as the solution, I just discuss it because many experts are exploring these avenues. I think the main point like in the new book, in 21 Lessons, about, call it, universal basic income or universal basic services, the real problem, I think, 'universal'. Most people, when they or universal basic support, They actually think in terms unemployed taxi drivers in New York or coal miners in Pennsylvania, and at the same time, you in Silicon Valley, let's tax, the big Silicon Valley giants and use that money to to the unemployed coal But this is national. The really big question to people in other countries. Because the automation have a completely different on different economies. Some economies will boom, the center of the automation revolution, and actually a lot of will come back, and then other countries might lose everything. Their economies might completely collapse. So the question is not whether you tax companies in California to pay basic support for but whether you tax to give basic support or Honduras. That's the real challenge, if we are going to think in terms of universal basic income, understand what the word universal means. It doesn't mean national. - But that requires a of paradigm or whatever Because that universal whatever you call it, will mechanism and reallocation evidence of who is and how you want to, in order to avoid chaos. - Yeah, I mean, you to be extremely difficult. I'm just making this comment about universal basic income as the solution, if we revolution very well. And my concern is that most of it think in national terms, will not be between different it will be between different nations. It will be like, maybe, of the 19th century, only much worse. That in the industrial revolution... - Can you dialogue that? - Yeah, in the 19th century, of countries leading the and getting, at least for most of the benefits and really dominating and exploiting much of and most countries and all of that, that was used. - Yeah and most countries And the same thing may happen And you have today some at the forefront of the and many countries say basically, urgent business than worrying about this. But this is like, you somewhere in South America or South Asia and you hear that in Britain, like steam ships and rail I have so many more urgent than these steam ships and rail roads. Thirty years later, And this is the situation we are here now. The main difference is and in the 20th century, the big threat, if you are left behind, the was exploitation. They will conquer you and exploit you. In the 21st century, there potentially, a worse fate awaiting you. You will not be exploited. You will simply become irrelevant. And, being irrelevant in than being exploited. When you're exploited, (audience laughs) When you're irrelevant, to struggle against. - That takes us to the data, doesn't it? - Ah, yeah, that takes us in the direction of discussing what's - What's happening to the, in your book, that who owns And, those happy few, who own and the data processors and all the rest of it, whereas, the rest of the out there eventually used for a little bit but irrelevant most of the time. Unless they're given that so that they're kept happy and quiet. - That's one scenario again. We are not sure, but what we can say with far greater certainty maybe the most important The same way that land was in ancient times and were the most important resource in the 19th and 20th century. And at present, we see of humankind, both on the and the human brain, in a few places. And, most of the world, you can say, is already in the process data colonized. That the data is flowing to a few hot spots. - Which one would those be? California? - The usual suspects. - So California, is one. a couple of places in between. Bangalore and a couple of And in much of the world, they for free or maybe in exchange (audience laughs) I'm not sure - Google would argue with not for free and you're getting therefore it's consideration - Yeah, the question is, you know, what is a fair questions in economics to settle it here. But, there is a huge suspicion it may be worth far, far than what you're getting in exchange. So, it's done voluntarily most But, this is also largely the importance of what they are giving. And, one of the problems this is the solution, regulation of data, let's nationalize it. I don't, nobody really has... are trying to do that with GDPR. Not dealing with the property of data, but at least dealing with the about who owns it, - who has privacy, who give it away or retain it. - The many plans and models what we lack is experience. What history teaches us something like that is going and mistakes will be made. And we are not sure what And, you know when you try to you have thousands of years to ancient Mesopotamia and the and you can learn. And you have a couple in regulating the ownership and all that. But, we have very little the ownership of data. So, yes, the debate is starting, all kinds of experiments, now done in Europe, this is beginning, but we are working with a than before. We can't go back to the past, of something like that. And we need to do it very of this technology is going And if we, or some of us, get it wrong, we may not get a second a different tack. If you're left behind, then maybe you never get a second chance. - That's not very reassuring. (all laugh) Now, I'm just turning to There's a time when I have to the audience. It's not just now, but I so that if you have about a particular area, because I'm going to turn in about 10 minutes. But, for the moment, I on my mind. You talked about the I would challenge you some of us have to read a lot of material and I'm not sure that most of the time. But you say that economists that many people believe. I would challenge that too, by the way, because... or that... I remember days when we in the UK before the Brexit vote was out, and... (laughter) I think you're right. I think you're right. (applause and laughter) Which raises the issue of the truth. - Mm-hmm. - Can you write a good story irrespective of the facts, or do... - Yes. - Yes, you do. - Oh, definitely. If there is one thing... - Yes. - Okay. - Some of the best stories (laughter) - Starting with Harry going all the way to books in order not to offend - But you take the view that are just stories, and they're narratives that help people along. That they're just stories. - Yeah, I mean, I think that between saying that a story is not true and saying that a story is To get a lot of people to them to believe in a shared story. Now sometimes the story and it still works. And, you know, it starts with like playing football. If you want to get 22 you need for all of them for what football is, what are the rules, what are the goals, what is And, there is nothing wrong with that. Everybody know that we invented the rules. It's completely fictional. It's not the laws of physics, that mandate these rules. And as long as it goes forgets that this is just and you have a football hooligans starting to beat or kill somebody And then to remind this we invented. Don't take it so seriously. Now, this goes all the which they don't have any objective value, they are not based on the It's no coincidence that that have money. Chimpanzees don't have money. I mean, chimpanzees can like, I give you a coconut, This works with chimpanzees. - Barter works, yeah. - But they will be unwilling in exchange for a green - piece of paper, or in data on computers. (audience laughs) Most of the money today in the world, as you know, probably much better than me, is just electronic data in computers. It's not the dollar bills and so forth. And, as I said in the beginning, this is the best story ever told, because it's that everybody believes. Not everybody believes not everybody believes in human rights, not everybody believes in nationalism, but almost everybody believes in money and in the same kind of money, even though it has no objective value, even if you think about when they captured Mosul and Araqa, they destroyed museums and and then they killed people, but they didn't touch the When they captured the bank, they found all these piles with pictures of American presidents, and instead of burning it, they took it, and carefully guarded it. Even they believe that story. - But isn't that based on trust? - Yes, money is really made of trust. If you look at the long history of money from ancient Mesopotamia until today, what money is really In the beginning, there so there was very little had to be made from something like the first type of money was simply made of barley. You could eat it. Now, then you switch, eventually, to gold, which is worthless. You can't do anything useful with gold It's just a status symbol. And then to paper, and now to electronic and it's because there between people, so money insubstantial. - But isn't there a that there is more and more and there are more and more, including crazy people, who trust, put their trust in money, and the fact that, the world over, particularly with the trust is actually declining How do you reconcile the two? - All but the last few years, yes, but if you compare the amount of trust that people today have in, let's put aside national institutions, to the amount of trust people a century ago, or a thousand years ago, it's incomparable. There is so much trust We spoke earlier about football. So, just the recent World Cup in Russia, just think, a thousand years from Argentina, France games in Russia. Absolutely impossible. Not just because nobody in and vice versa, but also game that all the people in the world play and agree on the rules. So, the World Football Cup or the Olympics is an amazing display of global trust. And it's the same with many institutions, they have in over the last decade or what happened after the the ability of central banks, for example, to create trillions of they didn't really They created it out of trust. There was enough trust in the system, that people were willing and the euros and yens this ex nihilo creation of They were willing to use enough trust in the financial institutions and in the governments. This trust is eroding, but like somebody just told steps forward, in terms of global trust, over the last millennia five steps back. But we're still 995 steps In 1018. an intersection point. - Not yet. We could reach that point. I mean, things can go with humans. But we are still quite near at least compared to any - All right, turning and those who are puzzled, curious. Please take the floor. There are mics all over You should just raise your hands. Okay, you two. The two of you, go ahead. - All right, yeah, so you stand up and you say your name and... - Will do. My name is Sai Janaswamy. I'm with the library, so welcome - Thank you - The question I had was, in your book you talk about mindfulness and but I looked at a Bill Gates book review which was the day before yesterday. I'm sure you looked at it. - Yes. - Right? (all laugh) So, he says, it all boils and meditation, and I was And, what is the correlation. As humans, how do we in the 21st century and and having a stream of - Well, there is one meditation. I was very apprehensive about because I was afraid, just of that. That people will say, oh to all the world's (audience laughs) not the answer. I don't think there is any are going to start And even if they do it, as positive as we hope. When you really observe when you're really there without any distractions, what you often find is so frightening, is so shocking that people of dangerous directions. So, because, I myself, meditation, because I practice it myself, I don't have such big trust to all the worlds problem, But I do think that it is very important for people to make the themselves better. And I know this is the Socrates said it and Jesus thousands of years ago. Know thyself. But, the difference now, is you did not have competition 2000 years ago, if you to get to know yourself better, to the rest of humanity. But now, you have all these that, as we speak, they And if they reach a point, to the point, when they you know yourself, they sell you, anything they or a politician. And that's very dangerous. And we can't stop the but we can make the effort better and especially to so they don't become a And I think there are hundreds practices out there. I practice vipassana, different things work. Maybe sports would work for you. Maybe art would work for you. But whatever works for you, because of the competition. - Just behind you, yes, please. - Hello, my name is Annette Schmitz. What about nature? What happens to nature in the future? Does AI solve ocean acidification? Do we have enough data hurricanes, et cetera? Does AI dominated solve wealthier by sort of and air and water, - It's really up to us. AI will not solve it for us. It can help us solve the but it will not solve it unless we give it the instructions to go in that direction. Now I think what we need to is not just a problem, I don't think that we can just by telling people to stop progress, stop economic growth, again as you probably know better than me, is now the number one value in the world. Countries can call themselves Jewish or Hindu or Muslim or secular, democratic or authoritarian, their number one value is And if you say to people, you need to stop economic to succeed. But what we need to realize of opportunities for economic in the condition of humanity in developing new eco-friendly technologies. So I will just give one of AI, but from the field of biotech. One of the main causes of in general is the meat and dairy industry, which in addition inflicts on billions of sentient beings. And there are opportunities what is known as clean meat, Don't raise a cow and slaughter Just grow a steak from cells. It may sound like science but it's already happening. Five years ago, the first was produced and it cost about $300,000. Last year it was down to $11.00. And if we continue to invest in a couple of years we can ecological, much more economic So this is... - Is it as good? - I haven't tasted it, but because you don't need so decide exactly the level of the different chemicals that you cannot do when you So, this is just one to think about the war not just as net cost, but - Yes, please. - My name is Alberto Pejar on long-term trends and uncertainties. And your work resonates with us because part of what we try to do or surface them and especially the notion that they will persist into the future. And of course what your is very powerful is take truths and demonstrate or perhaps as we economists So you've been quite nice to us so far. I'm inviting you to be a a fiction, perhaps the or something else that or might change in the coming decades. An economic fiction preferably. - Oh! - We are, we like to self inflict a few. - That's a big challenge. Well I would say the biggest as I just said, is economic growth. And, I do think there is a lot that the number one value of should be economic growth. But, I think it's unlikely to change the story quickly enough. Now we need to work with maybe I'm wrong. Maybe it is possible that you can make people's lives better, not necessarily by providing more stuff. But it's going to be a very hard sell. So, we can definitely make that effort. Similarly, one other, other is, as we mentioned earlier, and our many attempts to create Again, whether we succeed but what I can say is that should start with realizing So, I don't know what will but, it will be made of If people are thinking which are based on or distrusting governments, of years of history. What is important to think to things like taxation of the transactions, of in the world don't involve money. What happens if more and more transactions are based on exchanging rather than just dollars So, what happens to the taxation system? Should we start taxing I don't know. But, I do think we need to that the nature of quite dramatically in the - Interesting. You have a question. You have to raise your hand really - I, can I... Okay, you over there. Okay, you have the mic, so very quickly and then we'll move over there. - Very quickly. - I promised you the floor. - All right, so, my question trust and you mentioned ownership of data and that that will change how things move. Do you think that DLT or to play in how that what it has is that it potential around that and I could sell or with it as I wish, because for it. The same of the redefinition of trust, right, it it could be the public, the government, but it gives a different can take due to this new technology. - The new technology is DLT - also known as blockchain. - Yeah, I'm definitely not an but a lot of people are saying for creating a new system for ownership of data. Maybe. I just don't know. But, it is certainly the of trust and of ownership to the new realities of the 21st century. It's a very different and ownership of land. We know how, what is - of land. We have thousands of years to own a field. I build a fence around it. There is a gate. I stand at the gate. I tell who can come in and who can go out. That's very clear to us. But what does it mean that If there can be so many copies out there, that I don't even know, on that basis. Now we are developing the on medical data, while and while the data and even in a way that can give me a stake in the result of the research. So, if the results of the I could a get a small share of the million people who's data was used in order to develop this new drug. So, this is a very promising direction, but we have very little and one of the other difficulties is that it's completely Humans have this very of what it means to own real estate, and even chimpanzees have of what it means to own a banana. There are rules of ownership, Not always respected, but that's true of human societies also. We don't have, certainly the a clear concept of what And, one of the great to this connection between for this to work, it should by the average person. One of the worrisome in the world, is that if eight billion people in the world, how many really understand how - Oh, very few. - Very few. And this is a very worrying (all laugh) - And this is very worrying, that maybe in 20 years Maybe the financial system as AI takes over more that it will just be too So how does the system no human, really understands it? What it means is that is shifting to the algorithms. So, you still have a human on top, and you still make choices, but the options in the menu on the basis of how algorithms and they understand the no human, can really understand. So you get like, okay, but why these five options? We don't know? This is what the computer said. - Yeah and that's how you have accidents. You know, high-frequency trading and you can end - Ah, yes, and again, and then the AI becomes these kind of accidents are likely to be not just more common, - So even more than the ownership of data, the ownership of algorithms that we worry about. - Yeah, and not just the ownership. Maybe the algorithm but nobody in the the algorithm. The algorithm is constantly changing, teaches itself things, learning. It recognizes patterns, is able to recognize or understand, so the algorithm comes and says, okay we are now facing a crisis, but I can't explain to you why, you won't understand it. And the only two ways to avert the crises is this or that, I can't because you're a human, And this can be down the - Reminds me of the days software agreement with software companies and said, I want the source code. Suddenly someone says, with the source code? You Same. Okay, over to you. - Yes, does this work, okay. My name is Yuana Lukai. I work in the legal department. My question may be quite simplistic, but I'm kind of perplexed that the biggest threat in would be to be left behind, maybe in a cynical way, as markets. And if AI is about producing or monitoring devices for your body, then surely countries would want markets to thrive in order to be So, there must be some sort also for international and international tax and to prop up and support if for anything else, for AI producers. - Yes, there is a common and that maybe the ultimate is just to be consumers. You don't need humans for - And vegetators. - And meditators, but so it's a problem. And, yes there is a lot to be said for it, but we need to take into It certainly didn't work There are many occasions in value, very much, other If you think about slave economies. So, you do not think, all the slaves and so that they will buy our products. And in the future, slavery If you need less humans, you But you could, for example, in which machines are also the but then, even in a better job than humans. And, you know, we see even today, in some respects. I'm in the book industry. I want to sell books. And in a way, my number one customer today is an algorithm. I need to sell my book to the Amazon and Google search engines. They are my number one customers. I know that, okay, I need to tailor, like, what I write or said, not to the taste of homo sapiens, but to the If I can get the algorithm, In a more extreme situation, you can even, it's a very, very simplistic version, but just to give the gist of the argument, you could have an entire without humans in the loop. You can have one and produces steel and sells that produces robots. And they are sold back that mines more steel, sell it to the robots corporation can form an entire economic ecosystem which can spread from planet and throughout the galaxy, and asteroids to mine things humans in the loop. So this is of course a very scenario, but it alerts us to the fact that it's not a law of need humans, even as consumers, or all the humans as consumers. There could be, potentially, Now the questions arises, What's the point of having that benefits nobody outside? But, you can ask the same We are also in a closed system that, okay, it benefits the actors in besides the humans today? Nobody. So it's the same with, it's of an inevitability, it's to think about the have sophisticated economies in the future in which humans, or at least many humans are not needed even as consumers. - I hope you have a (all laugh) Because this is the last on a positive note. - Thank you professor. My name is Harry Joppa. I'm from SPR here. - SPR stands for Strategy Policy Review. It's one of the departments. - Thank you. So, we are in an age is facing protectionism and I remembered in your first book you like religions are stories, you what's your view, let's Do you think we are nations in the world, - More or less what? - Nations. - Nations. - Well, I don't really know. Certainly despite the recent nationalism today is far or two ago. We just forgot how strong it was. Go back 100 years to 1918, each other by the million Now today with all the talk in Europe, just count the bodies. A good way, it's not the to assess the power of an And one of the amazing things watching events, I'm not about Europe, is how to kill or be killed for nationalism. Which is a wonderful A century or two ago, like whether Britain should be part of the European Union or country, you would need a big war with millions of people and so forth. As far as I know, in their life, a British MP who was murdered by some fanatic. And the rest of the people the referendum said. And it's the same with In past centuries, if Scotland of London and they a couple of times, they and to confront the armies from the south to burn Edinburgh down. Now they just got a referendum just accept the results. Very few people are willing or to kill for this, and this Even when you look at most of the world, nationalism is much weaker than before. And I think, I don't know but what is to me, quite problems of the world The three biggest problems climate change and And none of these problems of a single nation. You just can't solve climate change or regulate AI on the So, the only solution to is greater global cooperation. Whether we actually see I don't know. It's the wise thing to underestimate human stupidity. (laughter) It's one of the most (laughter increases) Is this upbeat enough? (laughter and applause) - You were terrific, thank you. Thank you ever so much. I think we have to just, statement by being witty, And meditating. Thank you. (applause)