If you've ever driven or ridden in an automobile, the road as you transition onto or off of a it happens on a quarter of all bridges in the US! but the reason it happens isn't too complicated to You need a bridge to pass over you need a way to get vehicles from ground level a compacted pile of soil that can be here's the problem. Even though the bridge they are entirely different structures with is often relatively lightweight and supported on deep into the ground. An embankment is - if the it - essentially just a heavy pile of dirt. particularly in places that have naturally soft settles as a result. If the bridge doesn't settle bump. Over the years, engineers have come up with of heavy stuff on soft soils, but one of those unbelievable: just make embankments less heavy. can use to reduce weight, and a few of the reasons and this is Practical Engineering. In today's This video is sponsored by The Latin phrase for dry land, "terra firma," ingrained in us that the ground is a solid entity better. The things we build often exceed the at least not without some help. Ground the ways we assist the natural soil's ability a few of them in previous videos, including surcharge loading to speed up settlement so it soil nails used to stabilize slopes; the use of reinforcing elements to create One of the simplest definitions of that the loads don't exceed the strength we call it a failure. A failure can like a collapse. But a failure can also be a loss rough or a bridge approach that develops a major on increasing the strength of the underlying soil, loads, allowing engineers to accept the Let me put you in a hypothetical situation Imagine you're a transportation engineer working at-grade intersection that uses a traffic bypass the intersection. This is already a busy and now you're going to mess it all up with a that lead up to the bridge to be built from about as inexpensive as construction gets. You and they come back with this graph: a plot you want to limit the settlement of the after construction is complete. That's a pretty you'll have to let your new embankment sit and road and open the bridge. If you put this up on of all the people who use this intersection on Most likely they're going to ask you to find otherwise). From what I can tell from my inbox, work is a commuter's biggest pet peeve. So, you remember a key fact about roadway embankments: a small part of the total load experienced by embankment itself. Soil is heavy. They teach us it with something else? In fact, there is be used in a roadway embankment instead of and all of them have unique engineering properties Wood fibers have been used for many years as service life of around 50 years before roadway embankments have been seen as a popular the State of New York has used shredded so far avoiding the spontaneous combustions that very interesting materials that are manufactured Expanded shale and clay aggregates are formed temperatures above 1000 celsius. The forming thousands of tiny bubbles. The aggregate has a lot of uses outside heavy civil construction plants. But round particles like this don't work most manufacturers send the aggregate through the material is shipped out. Another manufactured is created in a similar way to the expanded shale agent creates tiny bubbles. When the foamed glass to naturally break up into aggregate sized pieces. I have one pound or about half a kilogram of as much expanded shale aggregate to make up that of traditional embankment building materials. All these different lightweight fills can be used and protect underground utilities from damage, with retaining walls: reduced lateral pressure. so check that out after this if you want to learn like soil aren't stable on steep slopes, so usually to take fuller advantage of a site walls are everywhere if you know where to most underappreciated challenges in civil quite as easily as water does, it is around hold back soil is essentially like building a called lateral earth pressure, can be to the height of the wall and the density of When Port Canaveral in Florida decided to expand they knew they would need not only a new passenger retaining wall to form the wharf. The engineers around 50 feet (or 15 meters) tall to allow the the wharf. The port already had stockpiles so the new retaining wall would get its feet of heavy fill material is not a simple that is made from steel sheet piles supported in addition to a complex tie-back structure to When the design team considered using lightweight that they could significantly reduce the size of available grade of steel instead of the specialty Even though the lightweight fill was free backfill available at the site, it still compared to the original design. The fill at we've discussed so far) are granular materials or gravel fills (just with a lower density). They create an embankment or retaining wall backfill there are a couple of lightweight fills Concrete can also be made lightweight using some normal stone and sand, or by injecting foam On projects where it's difficult or time you can just pump this stuff right out of a hose up construction and eliminating the need for lots make cellular concrete, and they can tailor the the project. You can even get concrete with This test cylinder was graciously provided up look at how the product behaves. Of course the hydraulic press and see how much force it a force of just under a ton to break this of around 200 psi or 1.4 megapascals, much not going to be making skyscraper frames but it's more than strong enough to hold of weight into a retaining wall or The last lightweight fill used in heavy civil expanded polystyrene foam, also known When used in construction, it's often that makes up your disposable coffee cups, EPS seems insubstantial because of its weight, compression. About 7 years ago I used my car mechanically stabilized earth. Well, I still so let's try the experiment with EPS foam. This is probably around 5 to 600 pounds, and there is some deflection, but the In an actual embankment, the loads so they aren't concentrated like point where you would never know EPS foam has some cool benefits, including how single worker, placed in most weather conditions, and can be shaped as needed using hot wires. But work well for embankments that see standing water embankment could literally float away. They're new force that most highway engineers don't think because EPS foam is such a good insulator, pavement and the underlying ground, making EPS foam has a weakness to a substance that it dissolves in fuel. If a crash, spill, that uses EPS foam without a properly designed Even with all those considerations, EPS foam is a a nice government report on best practices for Geofoam Applications in Highway Embankments reading). It was used extensively in Seattle on avoid overstressing the landfill materials that drivers in Seattle and millions of people around probably without any knowledge of what's below bridge and don't feel a bump transitioning it might just be lightweight aggregate, tires working to make our infrastructure as Speaking of lightweight, one of my goals in That's a lot easier with HelloFresh, which means my wife and I have been filming now. Sometimes we do it as part of the bedtime go to bed and treat it like a date night. That "I'm hungry" "I'm hungry!" "Does it say to do them one Luckily, HelloFresh's latest line of meals, to 20 minutes. That's faster than if you ordered store. Which means we have a lot more time to with the people we love too. HelloFresh sends recipe cards so you don't have to be an expert "Why don't you just turn your bread You can turn cooking from a chore to your with HelloFresh, and right now they have a really Go to HelloFresh dot com and use code PRACTICAL65 love this service, and I think you will too. "I don't know if you're aware, but I am hungry." That's HelloFresh dot com and use code PRACTICAL65 something fun and new for the new year. Thank