Is it possible that the empty space is also and you may regret for calling me to your podcast, send a particle to what you think is a vacuum, a wave function going to the vacuum, and then you place. All the other places are empty. So there possible that the wave function actually creates surrounding it? So collapse gives rise not only points in empty space where it could have been. they interact with one another, sorry for this have particles and the space-time around them. and then you have space-time around them. So what precedes space-time. Space-time emerges from gravitons, or perhaps even the real particles. electromagnetic waves and gravity waves shape our clocks by exchanging photons between them, because about the universe, there are gravitational creates the empty space is just these gravitons interact with one another in the nothingness? you see this black part? It is similar to the go out of the universe because the universe is And I guess that this is how I would propose that speed of causal connections. I'm not surprised no matter how I travel. Because when I travel, my whether photons or gravitons, interact with the them. Now I am not surprised that when I measure it is invariant. And now I think that we are rise not only to space-time curvature, but also now is always the same. Frankly, I don't know. I then somehow this simultaneity will change this is not Schrodinger's cat. And now something Schrodinger's cat. I think that now you have and this goes to your question about whether you see that it leaves some corridors which are the two particles. As long as you did not measure measure them, then evolution now goes and fills look at the Schrodinger's cat and a student many bright question. She said, why are you physically to know whether it was superposed or not when not in a superposition because all you have to do and then open the box after three days. So the occur at the beginning and then you wait for three find only a live cat or a dead cat. You are going this cat, very lean and angry and all droppings but already decomposed. So she said, why are you very profound question? And my answer is that as long as the box was sealed from the rest of cat being superposed means that its evolution has back and fills it. So actually you are creating opening the box, you are not only determining the history. This is very similar to John Wheeler's photon coming from far millions of years ago and just measuring its position, you are actually I'll be happy to talk about Wheeler's delay the idea of becoming actually tells you that better understood in this way. And here, before I of time asymmetry, all the asymmetries, you know, the physics of time asymmetry, what is the master But now, how about, and with this I come to the is that two particles interact with one another way that I don't know how to describe. You need may have it when they talk about the origin of the exists or how universes are born from one another. quantum mechanical interaction occurs beyond the there is no time, no space, and then space and to get their relative positions, which means they come very easily for this. They don't have it's only they interact in a very mysterious a collapse, and then the whole space-time get gravitational attraction or electromagnetic and smoothly from this dynamics? It's not and according to the naive relativity theory, and future. Now we are proposing that there is a that they interact with one another quantum where this is the now, and out of it is just like like out of the universe. No events, but there it's growing. Now when I suggest that the wave space surrounding it, remember that in general between mass and the space-time surrounding it. mechanics. There is a particle, and it gives you measurement, it may be in many places. Then you places are empty. I suggest that the collapse of not only to the particle, but to all the space is also a product of the wave function. Now if a you understand that attraction and repulsion now, planets, can be better understood in this way. of space-time is due to interactions which are mechanical, and then when there is kind of becoming, then you have the body, whether it's a to the other body, to the other charge or mass, them. Okay, I see what you're saying. So are you it's filling it in between two particles, that's two particles, it's pushing them together? Yes. into some of the most reality-spiraling concepts and emerging technologies. To stay informed in an wellspring of insightful analysis and in-depth and beyond. The Economist's commitment to rigorous world's most significant developments, whether tectonic plates of global politics. The Economist the headlines. What sets The Economist apart is and engaging, much like we strive to do in this your knowledge and gaining a deeper understanding recommend subscribing to The Economist. It's that you won't regret. As a listener of TOE, you The Economist and all it has to offer for less. get started. Thanks for tuning in, and now back to