The Snail Shamans are one of the biggest mysteries I know I've said that before, about the the nature of Higher Beings, about Mister But I really do mean it this time. The Snail Shamans are a pretty easy group They're definitely important, but they don't happens in the main story the character unravels The Shamans also don't really tell us much This is in part due to the fact that the vast And for the one Shaman who is alive, his dialogue Shaman culture and practices. One important thing to understand about the one of the main spell systems found in Hollow Hollow Knight's spell system is introduced to understand mechanically, the lore surrounding Hitting enemies will give you "Soul" which attacks. But what is Soul? Is it like mana? Why is Soul always displayed as a white liquidy Is it some kind of "spiritual milk"? It's possible that Soul even have some kind The Hunter shares his thoughts in the Soul I have heard others talk about 'soul' but I do know that freshly killed meat tastes to it? Of course this seems more like idle speculation he doesn't actually tell us what Soul might on that front. Hollow Knight's Soul system draws more from fantasy magic systems you'd find in stuff Basically, every living bug contains Soul, so Soul seems to act like a lifeforce primarily. But Soul can be found elsewhere. In fact, Soul is so prevalent throughout the Soul is so valuable that several groups in manipulate Soul in some way. The Ancient Civilization built totems used The Soul Sanctum scholars appeared to have jars to store the Soul of bugs they captured. And then there's the Snail Shamans. Their goals and habits are probably even more we know that they were worshipping the Void. As for the Shamans, they just sort of hang And we don't know exactly why. We also have no idea where they came from Hallownest. But it's clear that they have a strong connection how they live their lives. The majority of the Shamans the Knight finds These mounds are described by the Wanderer's the bones and shells of innumerable dead creatures. These mounds also appear to have some actual arranged in various ways. And I use the term "structure" loosely. And just to clarify, this stuff isn't technically The Hunter mentions that Zote's Life Ender there's also a developer's note about But what is shellwood actually? How would one carve a shell into wood? Well, my theory is that I have no fucking Getting back to the mounds, I'm guessing mounds. There's literally a bench made out of bones a stretch. The Shaman even says that the spirits of his he forces it to kill the Elder Balder. There's no denying that Soul is connected Whenever you cast a spell, you can hear whispering *spooky whispering Which makes sense because the Knight is literally to attack its foes, hence the name "Vengeful The Soul Sanctum bugs also fire attacks that *pee s stored n the balls We can even hear the nightmarish cries of Soul Master fight. *demonic voices WHAT THE HELL This is kinda weird. There are already ghosts in Hollow Knight, Ghosts are made up of Essence, a substance So Essence can hold part of a bug's personality But Soul can kinda do the same thing. The whispering of Souls implies it holds some And Soul can take the form of Spirits which... I think are the same things as ghosts? So there are two different forces in the world This is a pretty big deviation from how actual But we all know how that stuff works, so I The Ancestral Mound also gives us a bit more Whispering Root found there. The dialogue produced by this root reads: ...Soul attuned... ...Spiral focus... ...Shunned Power... The first line is a little vague. It just seems to be confirming that the Snail We don't really know how difficult it is Snail Shamans had a much better grasp on how of Hallownest, even including the ones in We only see the Snail Shaman use Soul once. He actually uses his cute little staff to air. He demonstrates a clear capacity to manipulate The Snail Shaman also has the Soul Catcher Soul from the world around them. Another Shaman relic found in the game, the have spent generations growing their knowledge One final Shaman charm even gives us a peek The Soul Eater charm is a forgotten Shaman creatures. So it seems like Shamans of the past were of passively collecting Souls in temples riddled As for why this practice was forgotten, it King in Hallownest. We know that the King did not approve of this He explicitly objected to the action taken These bugs harvested the Souls of others, their bodies became bloated and deformed. My favorite example of this has to be the When staggered, we can literally see Soul like a raisin. And when he dies, the Desolate Dive ability The second line given by the Whispering Root how the Snail Shamans are able to manipulate The "spiral focus" line might be referring head. This spiral pattern also shows up on the inside detail that might highlight its importance. There seems to be some sort of connection head. The Godseeker focuses using a crest located Although in this case, she isn't focusing The Godseeker is sort of an outlier here, head of a creature, and the act of focusing. There's also the Kingsoul and Void Heart Another Hollow Knight lore YouTuber, Ccmaci, similar looking crest or insignia on their mask. This might entirely be a coincidence, but as it could imply the Knight having a greater The Soul Sanctum bugs claim that they are somehow involves consuming large amounts of One of the end results of this is how their On top of that, all of the scholars wear these used to fire off Soul attacks. These appear to be the same objects that we Perhaps they act like the crest on Godseekers Unfortunately, there isn't much else to Another vague connection we can make is to The Mask Maker tells us that one requires is pretty open to interpretation but it's So maybe this head-Soul connection is an extension That being said, Soul is such a vague force lot of things, and it's hard to tell what Cherry. In my King's Pass video, I talked a lot might be able to focus their own Souls in In my Silksong speculation videos, I talk that is composed of Soul. In my video discussing the post war politics that Soul might taste like vegemite. And with so many different ways Soul can be is a definite connection between the concept But I do think there are some strands there. The last line of the Whispering Root is fairly The Shaman's power to use Soul was probably Like I said earlier, he didn't seem to approve Or it might just be that the other bugs of furniture both scary and disgusting. We know other strange powers like Lifeblood So something as strange as Soul manipulation This line could also explain another phenomenon We know from the Snail Shaman's dialogue some way. There's also a developer's note about At some point hints that he can not leave &quot;Can not&quot; could mean he stays out of duty, We find Snail Shamans in the Ancestral Mound, If we find any of them outside of a mound, tortured. There's one in the Soul Sanctum, who appears And there's one sealed in a sarcophagus Perhaps Snail Shamans were forced to remain perceived their power. But that doesn't seem too likely considering So it's probably either that the Shaman is somehow tied to it. Maybe the Shaman's spells don't work as to leave his home. After all, he doesn't even seem capable But it's anyone's guess, honestly. Team Cherry very much left this part of the Of course, there's one question looming A question that gets thrown around a lot whenever Are the Snail Shamans Void? In my video on the Ancient Civilization, I these things were Void creatures. But... I think I jumped the gun a little bit. So now it's time to lace up those clown out your clown keyboards, because we are about or not Snail Shamans are Void. So what was 2019 mossbag's reasoning behind Well, it mainly comes down to a few simple When the Knight examines the Snail Shaman particles that the Knight absorbs. The Snail Shaman in the Crystalized Mound The Knight collects the Shade Soul and Descending What's interesting here is that while the their descriptions in the menu describe them For the Abyss Shriek move, we can even see shadow. And there's even unused art of a Vengeful Regardless, these upgrades all mix the original One noteworthy distinction between the Soul Soul upgrades appear as these little spirit The Void spells don't have this at all. In all three instances, it's black balls And in the third instance that takes place Knight is consuming Void. This invites a very simple conclusion. These Shamans explode into Void which the And that makes sense. Bada bing bada boom, right? Well, let's talk about the elephant in the Characters exploding into stuff happens on it doesn't always make sense. For example, when the Seer disappears after into a Lumafly. It's a really small detail that might have nothing else in the game to follow up on this, I'm afraid to even talk about it. There's also the Grey Mourner and the Brooding This makes absolutely no sense. If people can just die and turn into masks, Are masks somehow connected to the Souls of Was the Brooding Mawlek hiding this Mask Shard That sounds painful! A more agreeable and straightforward explanation Another example we can compare this to is Several of his animations use the black ball Shamans and the Abyss. Since this entire fight takes place inside mind, this probably isn't supposed to imply In fact, it seems highly unlikely that Bretta So black stuff that appears in her dream is the conjuring of a character made up mostly We're in a similar boat with these Shamans. These effects might purely be an aesthetic the Shamans are actually Void. If we talk to the Snail Shaman after getting Knight's essence that melded with the spell, The wording here is annoying in how obscure So stuff goes into the Knight, giving it enough its own essence, and by essence, I don't There's enough vagueness there to perhaps of the Shamans in a general sense, and not would honestly make more sense to me if they I mean that seems to be the case when we get Another possible hint at Shamans being Void to be melting, kind of like what we see with Collector. But it could be just dark colored leaves, the mound. As a side note, if the Shamans are Void, it's It's certainly possible, but I think it having a "proper" burial. Another small detail to consider is how the mentions its "empty face". This could imply that the Snail Shamans are The only characters who call the Knight a and arguably Divine, all characters who are It's obvious that the Snail Shaman is pretty he is Dream Nailed. Also, the fact that he says our essence melded Shade Soul kinda implies that he knows the How exactly would a non-Void creature's essence So that's all of the evidence for why the Our main argument is balls. And yes, balls are pretty convincing in most But once we get into non-ball related topics, with this theory. First of all, if the Shamans are Void, where For a lot of Void beings, we have explanations. The Kingsmoulds and Wingmounds were created The Collector probably also came from that the Pale King, it's a whole thing, we're The Vessels were also created by the Pale in the Abyss. The ferocious Void Tendrils and Shade Lord Abyss and Void itself, although the specifics The Shamans, on the other hand, don't have In fact, we are fairly certain they didn't After obtaining the Abyss Shriek, the Snail have come from a place the Snail Shamans never This implies that the Shamans aren't connected somehow forgot where his people came from. That seems unlikely, but we do know that the part of their history, considering the Soul relic. As for their true origins, we do see a similar Silksong sequel. The Churchkeeper appears to be a similar character teaching Hornet how to shoot ghosts out of songs on her needle. But should this character even be considered Are Snail Shamans even a species? Or do you just need to wear one of those snail Regardless, she is visually similar to them, aren't unique to Hallownest. You could argue that this strengthens the will say we know so little about what Void Who's to say there aren't other Abyss-like found? So maybe the Shamans found in Hallownest and a different place. But, we're speculating an awful lot here. And this isn't the only issue that arises Another monkey wrench in this idea is how as his relatives. Once you get the Desolate Dive, he mentions He also mentions his fourth aunt, who resides And he mentions his larger cousin located How exactly would Void beings have relatives? Can Void beings get married, do the nasty Technically, shades are siblings, which shows relations to one another. But cousins and uncles imply a multigenerational And... that just sounds kinda silly. But this does beg the question. What exactly is a "fourth aunt"? In order to answer this question, I decided the entire internet. So naturally, I took to twitter dot com and matter. Thanks to a very knowledgeable and patient the truth. "Fourth aunt" isn't really a thing. Perhaps a fourth aunt is just your mother That would be the easiest explanation. Or a fourth aunt could be a fourth cousin, great great great grandparents with your parents. This would imply that, given none of the Snail family tree of at least 133 other Snail Shamans between these two characters, let alone the the hell these people who are and their relation And that's not even considering the sexual And if the Shamans are anything like that, Youcould argue that these relations are more Sorta like dog moms. While that excuse might work for the relatives, these Shamans are deeply tied to their ancestors. The spirits of the Snail Shaman's ancestors Mound. This not only reinforces the idea of the Shamans created, but it also raises another complicated Can Void beings even have spirits? Void creatures aren't technically alive, died in the Abyss. Obviously Void creatures like the Collector like the Hollow Knight do give off Soul, so But being a living creature animated by Soul that can contain or hold Soul within its shell. I don't think you could say the Hollow Knight sense that a regular creature would have a Or maybe I'm reading way too far into the an excuse to put cute little faces on the Either way you slice it, there are some weird If they truly are Void creatures, why are How were they created? Why do they refer to each other as relatives? If they aren't Void, why do they explode and then gains Void spells from them? Why do they still seem to be aware of Void In the end, the Snail Shamans don't have Looking strictly at what's in the game, since the Void ball phenomenon is easier to from the Snail Shaman. And even if we ignore the Void stuff, there's of Snail Shamans were doing. The fact that they had a charm like the Soul force in the past. What were these ancient snail people doing How powerful were these overcooked hotdogs? I'm gonna hold out hope that Silksong somehow Just gonna go and add it to the Silksong Bingo Mode. I mean William did say we might get some Snail So it's basically confirmed.