So many people came today So many people today Let go, let go, let go This city of Suzhou, at this time Brother Xiaoyao It's so lively here Martial arts masters from all over the country gathered together Isn't it just to marry Miss Lin? I don't see These participants At least half They all want to borrow the Lin Family Fortress Lord Lin Tiannan's martial arts power One step to success Otherwise, he may have set his eyes on the Lin family's property. Follow me This year's competition I'm sure there won't be a result. yes Miss Lin inherited the family tradition since she was young. Sword pointing to the double From the age of thirteen, all of Suzhou No boy can beat her. I want to defeat her. It's harder than climbing to the sky Ling Er This family is looking for a relative. She sounds like a big lady. I also know some martial arts Not yesterday That crazy bitch we met. No way Didn't Mr. Liu say Miss Lin couldn't be more gentle? The eldest lady of the Lin family is so gentle There will be no more fierce people in the world that day. You guys today You can see it The first tigress in Suzhou Keep your voice down If she hears you cut your tongue Is Miss Lin tall and thin? A long face A pair of sword-like eyebrows and big eyes She Isn't this coming out? Here it comes. Here it comes. Come up Miss Lin It's out It's really her good Miss Lin It's really a narrow road for enemies Brother Xiaoyao Otherwise, let's go quickly. No rush I'm going to take a look today Who wants to marry this bitch? Limburg Lord Heroes of all kinds Limburg Lord My daughter today Set up the stage Thanks to all the heroes for not giving up Willing to test with martial arts Happy marriage The rules of this competition are the same as in previous years. No matter which hero knocks the little girl off the stage You can marry into the Lin Family Castle Become the son-in-law of my Lin Family Fort good Get started Come on, you go first. Why hasn't Brother Liu come yet? The competition for marriage begins now good I'll go first Limburg Lord I will call you Master Taishan first. Miss Lin, please Next The little beauty is mine. good Ms. Lin is so amazing good good Come on, Ms. Lin roll Next OK, OK, OK Miss Lin's martial arts skills are so powerful Awesome! Is there anyone else coming? Who else You go, you go You go up I Niche Willing to give it a try Come on, come on, come on cousin cousin Mr. Liu is here I'm optimistic about you It's him Cousin, what are you doing here? Of course I'm here to marry you. Come down now, don't embarrass yourself. Cousin, you are holding this martial arts competition to find a husband There is no restriction on the identity of the contestants Then I am not your cousin if I stand here Just an ordinary contestant Then don't blame me for being rude. Please, cousin. OK, OK, OK I didn't expect that Mr. Liu was so hidden. I can't let you win But I have a way to keep you from losing I would like to hear more This martial arts, all have routines. As long as you remember the opponent's every move It will be difficult for the opponent to hit you. The competition is to stop at the right time. As long as you don't lose That's a disguised win, isn't it? You remembered my moves. Cousin, you can't hit me I won't hurt you or You better admit defeat. I, Lin Yueru, never admit defeat The last ten moves If I can't knock you off the stage You win Come on Four five six seven eight Nine Nine The last resort Only one move left well good cousin cousin cousin OK, OK, OK Fight, what are you looking at? Fight cousin You better give up. Hit cousin Mr. Liu Brother Liu Come Mr. Liu No.1 Scholar Just one step away, why don't you have some concentration? Brother Li, you can't say that. I am still very grateful to Brother Li for teaching me the method I am not as skilled as others. I have no destiny with my cousin I told you that you can't beat me Even if there are bad people who come up with bad tricks It can't do anything to me either. This is a martial arts competition This isn't some hero conference. If she is invincible Isn't it that you can't get married for the rest of your life? Be a lifelong aunt you yes No, no No, no. Because you are injured. I don't want to bother with you today Get out of here now You thought you could hurt me Defeated It's me who doesn't want to bother with you. Little thief, as long as you dare to come up Between you and me, we only talk about fighting Regardless of marriage I don't believe it. What if you go back on your word and insist on relying on me? Then I will be unlucky for the rest of my life, right? yes you How can this be bad luck? Brother Xiaoyao Let's go. I'll find a chance to explain it to Miss Lin some other day. good No comparison, no comparison But in my opinion You're just like these men in the audience. They are all turtles Go up Don't go too far. how The turtle is angry Go up superior Just go up Brother Xiaoyao Ling'er, don't worry If I don't teach this savage girl a lesson She will definitely haunt us again And I'm only talking about fighting Regardless of marriage Brother Li, please don't hurt my cousin. Brother Xiaoyao, be careful We agreed that we would only compete in martial arts and not seek marriage. Cut the crap Make a move good Good job, young man. good good good cousin OK, OK, OK Awesome! I really didn't expect Miss Lin to lose. I knew it early on She is no match for this young man. That is How about it? Are you convinced? You wait, little thief. cousin Be careful Young hero is awesome good good Good job How's it going, cousin? Leave me alone You lose I'm going to kill you, little thief. Don't overestimate your own ability. You can't afford to lose. This young man He is so skilled at such a young age. May I ask your name, young man? Yuhang Li Xiaoyao Good name Li Shaoxia Congratulations Everyone Five Martial Arts Competitions Today, we finally got the result My Lin Family Fort will be open for three days starting tomorrow. Fellow villagers Martial Arts Fellow Please come OK, OK, OK Definitely, definitely Wait, you, what do you mean? Dad, this game doesn't count. Martial artist Be willing to accept defeat Limburg Lord, right? I have something else to do. Bye. Li Shaoxia This stage I'm looking for a husband for my daughter. Since you won There are also heroes from all over the world who bear witness to this How can I not recognize it? You just said We only talk about the competition, not the marriage proposal If I beat you Our holidays are written off Does it count now? Of course. I want to compete with you again Stop, stop Lord Limburg, did you hear that? Your daughter said we were just exchanging martial arts skills. You guys can take care of the marriage proposal slowly. My Lin Family It is the largest martial arts sect in the Central Plains. How could it be What do you say? How can it be Congratulations to Ms. Lin on her marriage A handsome man and a beautiful woman Li Shaoxia, did you see it? It's what everyone expects Dad, I will never marry him. Nonsense You and I have already said Since Li Shaoxia won How can it be possible Going back on your words and not admitting your mistake You wait, little thief. cousin cousin Lord Limburg, since this is the case, I will take my leave. Brother Xiaoyao Li Shaoxia Please come to your house for a chat You can marry me But I have conditions. you say First I am an orphan The family has no house, no money, and no savings. No money for betrothal gift But your Lin family probably doesn't need it either. second Since I am a married woman Then your Lin family should give me a betrothal gift I think Linjiabao is OK. Brother Xiaoyao That's all besides third Your daughter is really willful and capricious. To make up for The psychological trauma of living with her As for me, I will marry four, five, six, seven, eight, nine wives. It's as it should be. If you don't agree, there's nothing I can do. After all, I am getting married for the first time. The requirements cannot be lowered It's up to you Limburg Lord Please think about it again. That's a bit too harsh. A gentleman's word is as good as his words. I, Lin Tiannan, never tell jokes. Jin Yuan What do you think? I Uncle Brother Li Now that the winner of the ring has been decided Although Brother Li is plain-looking But he is intelligent and skilled in martial arts Marry into the Lin Family Castle and inherit the position of leader of the Southern Martial Arts World It really couldn't be more appropriate. Brother Liu, you Brother Li You and I are close friends I won't cheat you. Congratulations, Mr. Li Zhuangyuanlang, what do you mean? That's it. To be able to get a young hero as a son-in-law It is really my daughter's blessing. good Come on, young man, take a seat. Limburg Lord Marriage matters require three books and six rites As for me, I came in a hurry and didn't prepare anything. In this way, I can marry into the Lin family It was indeed a bit hasty. Young Hero Didn't you just say there was no betrothal gift? I was just joking. You still need to prepare what you need to prepare Well, what do you need? I have everything in Linjiabao This won't work. Even if it is Even if there is no betrothal gift, there must be a dowry, right? otherwise Unlucky I still have to buy some that I like. Then you must remember Go quickly and come back quickly I am here Waiting for your meal Okay Come, take a look, take a look, the sachet Scented sachets Steamed buns, hot steamed buns Brother Xiaoyao you Everyone, take a look, oil-paper umbrella I, I mean I can actually go to Nanzhao by myself. You don't have to send me It doesn't matter How can this be possible? I promised to take you to Nanzhao. Ling Er You don't really think I'm going to marry that bitch. Aren't we here to buy dowry? Silly girl What do I, a man of seven feet tall, need to buy for my dowry? Just now Brother Liu told me secretly The Lord of Limburg has something important to do. Besides, he is a skilled martial artist. I have no choice but to come up with this plan Grease your feet and run away. Really Am I crazy? I married her, she thought it was a good idea Ling Er I will never leave you I won't leave you alone Fortunately, I didn't follow you. Li Shaoxia Limburg Lord Why did you suddenly appear here? Isn't the son-in-law going to prepare a dowry? I'm afraid you don't have enough money. Send you money. Just let the subordinates handle this matter How can I trouble you so easily? Disciple of Lin Family Castle There are more important things to do I can only come in person Guard it carefully for me Yes, Lord Limburg Lord This is Snakes are rampant in Suzhou I have to fulfill my responsibility to protect the people. Good son-in-law How did you get to the city gate? I'm here to ask you for money to buy my dowry. Didn't you just take the money? I see. Then I will take my leave first. Brother Xiaoyao, what should we do? Since the Lord of Limburg is so generous Let's go to Suzhou first. If I don't I don't believe he can force me. Marry that wild girl Walk cousin Are you looking for someone to fight to the death? Of course That little thief Make me look bad in front of all the people of Suzhou Today, either he dies or I die. Fortunately, Brother Li escaped from marriage Otherwise, we'll have another bloody fight. What Runaway Fortunately, Brother Li ran fast Only then did I solve this urgent problem. Damn it, the little thief dared to escape from marriage I'll break his legs. Cousin, don't you want to marry him? Of course I don't want to marry him. But he once again made me lose face No, I must seek revenge on him. cousin A woman with hands like firewood will have wealth You two will definitely make a fortune in the future. You two It's quite fun You two stop Are you calling us? Sir, lady, please stay. Iron Mouth Diviner No money if it doesn't work Second place Fortune telling? No money if it doesn't work good Help me calculate my recent luck My son You are rosy-cheeked, with a peachy complexion You will definitely have good luck in love Then tell me about my luck in love Son Women for water Water can carry a boat, but it can also capsize it. My lord, please be careful. Remember, remember Water can carry a boat, but it can also capsize it. This girl I see you shining brightly Aura Rare in the world Decided to be the empress in the court Even in opposition, he is a great man but There is a murderous aura hidden between the eyebrows I think there will be disasters in the near future. Disaster You're talking nonsense. Ling'er, let's go. Two, only ten taels of silver We will solve all your problems I knew you were a liar Look Ten taels won't work, but five taels will do. Son Look at your wife, she is so beautiful Buy her some jewelry. Ling'er, take a look, is there anything you like? Look at this hairpin, it's selling really well. look Ling'er, this silver hairpin is beautiful It suits you very well, boss. Lin, Miss Lin I want it I blamed the fortune teller. There is a disaster You filthy little thief Fight me again if you dare I will let you know how great I am. You pick fights with people every day. Don't you have anything else to do? You kidnapped a girl in broad daylight You are so shameless Miss Lin, please listen to my explanation Me and Brother Xiaoyao, stop, stop, stop This girl This matter has nothing to do with you It's my personal vendetta against him. You better stay away So as not to hurt you Savage Girl It's none of your business to manage our affairs Why is it not my turn? You are about to marry into the Lin Family Castle Of course I can manage If your father hadn't been guarding the city gate, I would have run away long ago. Anyway, you fight with me. Otherwise, you can't run away You, you, what are you doing? Miss Lin stopped me like this Can't wait to marry me? Then I'll tell you now I already have someone I like And I have no plans to take a concubine. You shameless little thief You humiliated me in public. You came to my door and tried to stop me from escaping. If you don't want to marry me, what else could it be? I Ling'er, let's go. You are not allowed to leave We will later It's better not to conflict with Miss Lin. Just explain it clearly and it'll be fine Didn't I explain it clearly enough? She's the one who always provokes me Then we should leave quickly. What do you follow us for? Who follows you? Is this road yours? I'm happy to leave, is it your business? Follow if you like Walk Shopping with other women What would you like to eat, guys? A pot of good tea I also want some of your most famous Suzhou cakes. Okay, wait a moment. Brother Xiaoyao Miss Lin just wants to save face Why don't you give her a way out? Let me think about it Miss Lin is here Miss Lin, we have guests at this table. How about I change the private seat for you? I'm gonna sit here. Yes, yes Miss Lin, please don't be angry. Brother Xiaoyao didn't mean to target you. If there is any offense I apologize to you on his behalf. Ling'er, you Stop, stop, stop This girl I just told you This matter has nothing to do with you You don't have to apologize for him. But I want to remind you You'd better stay away from this kind of person. Miss Kelin Ling'er, stop talking. This isn't her store. We eat our Excuse me This shop is my Linjiabao This is also your Lin family's property. Of course Isn't that my property too? What are you daydreaming about? How could it be yours? Think about it Everyone in Suzhou knows me, Li Xiaoyao He is the son-in-law of Linjiabao Isn't yours mine? Mr. Li, why are you so shameless? What I said is the truth After all, it was you, the Lin Family, who forced the marriage first. I was just forced to accept it. Your Lin Family Fort's property and You Are you looking for a fight again? Fighting with a female man I'm not interested What Brother Xiaoyao You bastard, how dare you call me a woman? Look at yourself, there is no other girl like you. Wearing armor, standing on a human stool She was still grabbing the man's clothes Yes, who dares to mess with Miss Lin? That's right Release it quickly You don't care about face, but Lord Limburg still does. Everybody is watching. What are you looking at? You wait for me The money is here Okay, okay. Gone I finally left. Get out of the way Walk Ling'er, let's go eat somewhere else Sir, your face Thank you, sir. Please enjoy your meal. It smells so good Ling'er, eat quickly Ling'er, why don't you eat? I Ling'er, what's wrong with you? Looks like he's not looking well I I'm fine A bit burning Come on, I'll take you to see the doctor. Brother Xiaoyao No, I'm really fine. Maybe I'm just a little tired. Then let's find an inn to stay in first. Walk Son The Lord is ready I'm waiting for you two to go back. This father and daughter are really haunted cousin Cousin, you are finally back. It seems that Brother Li has successfully escaped. Congratulations Congratulations! You're still here, congratulations. It's all your fault How dare you collude with outsiders to harm me? You dare to come to participate in the martial arts competition? What is your intention? My cousin, please forgive me. My cousin, please forgive me. As a brother, I am only good to my cousin. Stop I'm giving you a chance to make amends. But it depends on your performance If you don't perform well I will no longer recognize you as my cousin. Cousin, please tell me A brother is willing to go through fire and water for his cousin Put it into the oil pan and roll it on the nail plate, or for nine days Stop, stop, stop I'm dead With your frail body And go through mountains of swords and seas of fire Give me some advice. Good I don't know what my cousin is confused about. Li Xiaoyao, this little thief In front of all the people of Suzhou Embarrass me in the martial arts competition It's really abominable My cousin is trying to save face. Yes, must find it back Rather than letting Brother Li escape from marriage Why don't we strike first? break off an engagement break off an engagement Cousin, do you want If Brother Li receives your divorce letter It must be a great shame for him.