Amman. Above all, a new city - largely built in the second half of the 20th century - the capital of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan nonetheless reflects the long and very rich history of the country. The origins of Amman date back to biblical times. Its name was then Rabbath Ammon. "City-state" of the Ammonite kingdom, renamed Philadelphia by the successors of Alexander the Great, it was, under Roman domination, attached to the commercial network of the Decapolis. This impressive theater remains from this era, built by Emperor Marcus Aurelius. The city only officially took the name Amman after the Arab conquest of 635. Born from the breakup of the European colonial empires at the end of the First World War, the young state thus stands at the heart of a region which, very early on, was the scene of events of historical influence. A long-hidden jewel of the Middle East, a meeting point between Africa, Europe and Asia, this corner of the world has always attracted covetousness. Remember... Hebrews, Jews, Christians, Umayyads, Mamluks, Abbasids, Ottomans, then more recently English and Palestinians... They all set foot towards this land, without ever succeeding in conquering it definitively. It seems, however, that there is ONE people who have never completely conceded their sovereignty. The Bedouins! Nomads living on pastoralism, these sons of the desert remain the guardians of traditions that are sometimes thousands of years old. Pillars of the current Kingdom, they still live in the "badawi", in other words "in the Bedouin way" from their ancestors. But who were these ancestors? The mystery remains! But some claim that they descend from an ancient nomadic people who settled in the 4th century BC, in the middle of this rocky cirque, by founding Petra, their capital. Their name ? The Nabataeans! If, today, Jordan welcomes several million tourists per year, it is largely thanks to the rediscovery of Petra in the 19th century. The ancient Nabataean capital is, without a doubt, the most famous historical site in Jordan and the most impressive in the Middle East. Carved out of the rock, this city from another time never ceases to fascinate travelers and excite the appetite of archaeologists. There are numerous teams of researchers from all over the world who, each year, contribute through their work to enrich our knowledge of the Nabataeans. Recently, a Jordanian team, among others, made an astonishing discovery at the location of El Khazneh, made famous by the novel Indiana Jones. Under this temple, archaeologists found the entrance to an imperial tomb dating from the 1st century BC. This discovery reveals that at that time, the level of this part of the city was located several meters in below the current level, thus calling into question the face of the Nabataean city. These new clues found inside the building completed the immense puzzle that constitutes the history of the Nabataeans. The analysis of ceramics, in particular, makes it possible to clarify dating and identify the different cultural phases of a society. What are the origins of this nomadic people? How did it settle down to become one of the most powerful civilizations of the ancient world? Classical tradition reports that the Nabataeans were the descendants of Ishmael. Coming from the Arabian Peninsula, they settled in successive waves in the country of Edom, in the 6th century BC. Today, we would call them "desert millionaires"! Master caravan drivers, the Nabataeans transported precious goods from India and China, the kingdom of Saba, Aqaba and Palmyra. Silk, cotton, horses, copper and iron, dyes, pearls and ivories, pepper, cinnamon, and then of course incense and myrrh... The Nabataeans also exploited slaves, which they sold to the Egyptians, the Greeks, and later the Romans. According to a testimony reported by Diodorus of Sicily, a Greek historian of the 1st century BC. JC, they lived in tents and had the custom of: not sowing grain, not planting fruit trees, not drinking wine, and not building houses. These prohibitions were punishable by the death penalty. The foundations of nomadism were born. Relaxed over time, these precepts of life are still perpetuated by the several thousand Bedouin families settled in the desert. We have a permanent house in Wadi Rum, but we Bedouins still like to live in tents. Goats and camels can come and go, searching for food in the desert. >> Our tents are made of wool which relaxes in summer with the heat, and firms up in winter with the cold. When it rains, the fibers also shrink, allowing water to run off to either side. We are a family of nine people... We have a herd of around thirty goats, four camels, including a baby. We live between the village and here, because the desert does not always offer the vegetation necessary for herds. We sell the products of our livestock and in return we buy our food in the village. In spring, after the rainy season when there has been any, the desert then offers greener vegetation. We then move from one place to another. We cover between three and four kilometers, then at the end of this transhumance we return to the village, because there is always water there. >> Water, of course! Without it, caravan traffic, which dominated the life of nomads in Antiquity, would not have been possible. Crossing, for long periods, the ocher furnace of these desert regions, required a perfect knowledge of natural resources as well as a mastered practice of water techniques. Such routes also required knowing the natural shelters that lined the tracks. The latter, in fact, were not safe! Greeks and Romans frequently attacked them, as much for their cargo as for their water, and it was not uncommon for women, old men and children to have to pay a high price for their freedom. This is how, despite their religious prohibitions, the Nabataeans settled in this rocky amphitheater: Their goal? First of all, ensure their own safety -- by creating a hiding place and a storage place for their belongings --; then, offer this security to passing visitors, for a fee; and finally, control caravan traffic. Located at the crossroads of major trade routes, Petra was an all the more judicious choice as it constituted the last - VITAL - stage before the uncertainty of the desert. The founders of Petra held, in fact, the secrets of water capture, its conservation, and above all its distribution. Their inventions in this area are still clearly visible. The Nabataeans were very ingenious, particularly with regard to hydraulic installations. Underneath this entire temple were found important hydraulic systems, including pipes , which brought water inside and evacuated it outside the temple. This type of hydraulic systems found in the Siq runs throughout Petra. The Nabataeans managed to supply the city with water by crisscrossing it through the mountains, by different paths. There is a spring to the southwest of the Temple which, together with water from the Siq and with that from Wadi Musa, provided sufficient water for a population which, at its peak, would have reached 30,000 people. Which seems extraordinary when you see how arid the region is today. The Nabateans were ingenious, particularly with their water system. Underlying this whole temple precinct; massive tare water system, pipeline systems that are bringing water in, as well as taking water out. >> And these are water system that we find in the siq that are carried through Petra. They managed to bring the water around hooped the mountains ant into the city by different routes. We have a spring to the south-west of the temple and that, the combination with the siq water and the wadi Musa provided these people who numbered supposedly thirty thousand at the height with enough water, which seems really quite amazing when you see how the area is today. Comfortably installed and perfectly well organized, these "Princes" of the sands thus constituted, in a few centuries, a true kingdom. Small -- certainly -- but powerful and respected. All the more respected as Nabatene has always been able to seal non-aggression agreements with most other regional companies , based on the maintenance of its commercial relations. The Nabataeans became so powerful that they afforded themselves rich residences with particularly elaborate decor. The completely new style of the ornamental repertoire reveals different influences. Did the Nabataeans import ideas from other regions, from other great capitals of the world? Absolutely ! They were nomads and, therefore, they had to show that they had acquired great prosperity, so they imitated all the great cities of the Old world, such as Antioch and Alexandria. And it was probably from Alexandria that they brought artisans who brilliantly passed on their know-how to the locals; and taught them how to carve the features you see today in Petra. We recognize Assyrian motifs, Egyptian motifs, Hellenistic motifs... The Nabataeans decided to integrate all these motifs into their canon. Then they reinvented their own style. Did the Nabateans import ideas from other areas, from other major capitals of the world? Absolutely! They were nomads, they had to show that they had gained a great prosperity and they had to copy all the great cities of the Ancient world like Antioch and Alexandria. And it is probably from Alexandria that they imported craftmen who with great mastery trained the locals how to carve the elements that you see today in Petra. We have Assyrian motifs, Egyptian motifs... Hellenistic motifs, All of these are ideas that they decided to make as part of their canon. And then, they imposed their own indigenous quality upon them. And this is how the Nabataeans - these inveterate nomads - became builders: digging out of the rock, their public buildings, their houses, their temples, their tombs, as well as a theater! The pink city flourished until 106 AD, when the Nabatean kingdom was annexed by the Roman Empire, to constitute the Roman province of Arabia, with Bosra as its new capital. Although Petra gradually lost its importance, the Nabataean civilization did not cease to exist. It was not until the evening of May 19, 363, that a natural cataclysm definitively sounded the death knell for the Nabataean kingdom. From then on, Petra and its region sank into oblivion for several centuries before their rediscovery in 1812 by Burckhardt, a Western traveler-spy. Despite the Greco-Roman influences it underwent, the Nabataean civilization never lost its identity. Today, it is an important reference in the Arab world for the origins of Arabness. Can we therefore affirm that the Bedouins - and the Jordanians themselves - are the descendants of the Nabataeans? The question seems contradictory, but it is based on a known historical case. Roman writers especially Herod, the father of history, said in his book on the Nabataeans that they came from Bedouin tribes. Some researchers, including recently Dr. Khalil Nami, a renowned Egyptian scholar, wrote an article linking the Nabataeans to the Jordanian tribes, the Bdouls. The Bdouls are semi-sedentary nomads who, in the 19th century, reinvested the Petra site, using the ancient installations. In the 1970s, a large number of Bdoul families still lived there. As the number of children grew, the Wadi Mussa Primary School was created and a teacher appointed. At this same time another phenomenon developed: tourism. A windfall for the inhabitants of Petra! Among them, Chaher was not 20 years old. I was born here, in this cave, where my mother gave birth here, more than thirty years ago. We lived here, with my five brothers, my four sisters, my father, and my mother... As for school, I went there at six in the morning. I was going from here to Wadi Mussa. The school opened its doors at eight o'clock, and to get there we took the Siq road. Same thing for coming home from school. We did ten kilometers a day, five on the way there, five on the way back. After school we played football, I rode a donkey or a camel, we climbed the mountains, I ran, I went to the springs, we drank... Here, I remember, I climbed the rocks and I looked at the mountains as far as the eye could see without anyone. Petra was mine, and I was happy. In 1985, the Jordanian state, in agreement with UNESCO, decided to move the Bdouls who, from now on, will have to live in the village built for them on the edge of the site. Thus, without knowing it, the Nabataeans left a capital and installations whose occupation has continued until our days. By adopting their way of life, the Bedouins have been a real vector of cultural transmission. But the phenomenon of continuity is not limited to lifestyles. It also affects ways of thinking, and in particular the desire to live in harmony with the outside world. I think that the Nabataeans played the first founding role of modern Jordan, and we can really consider Jordan as the Nabataean kingdom open, is it not towards Arabia, towards Mesopotamia, towards Syria, and towards 'Egypt. This was the role of the Nabataeans, this opening towards neighboring countries, and therefore especially towards the Mediterranean through the city of Gaza. It was by developing a caravan activity that the Nabataeans were led to establish good relations with the populations of the countries served by the tracks. It is in this same context of open-mindedness and pacifism that Christianity developed, on the banks of the Jordan. Let's not forget obviously that the foundation of Christianity was in Transjordan, baptism is still if you want a very important mystery of Catholicism as well as of Christianity, all Christians believe in baptism. The baptism of Jesus Christ certainly took place east of the Jordan, on the east bank of the Jordan, this is confirmed by the Gospel and by modern discoveries. Why he preached east of the Jordan, because this country inhabited by Arabs and largely by the Nabataeans, was open, had no ulterior motives... The Jews, then divided, were in fact less receptive to the message of Jesus than the Nabataeans. The latter, who spoke the same language as Christ - Aramaic - already practiced community life. The texts and numerous installations found in Petra attest to Nabataean religious customs, which would find their echo in Christianity. Christian Auge and his team have been digging in the temple sector for many years. Their work and their discoveries allow, today, a better understanding of both the functioning of sanctuaries and the conduct of religious ceremonies at that time. We have found in many Nabatean sanctuaries rooms visibly reserved for banquets, equipped with 2 or 3 benches, and on the other hand we have also found them in many buildings which are not a priori temples. For example in front of or next to large tombs, and also in obviously houses. Honoring one's guests with banquets was very widespread among the Nabataeans... This aspect had struck the ancient authors, since the few rare texts that we have about them speak of their customs... The celebration of banquets, in particular banquets of 12 people served by the King is reported. During the meal, a cup of wine was passed from guest to guest, according to a Greek custom. We understand... these Greco-Bedouin banquets are reminiscent of Christ's Last Supper. Like the Christians, the Nabataeans also believed in the virgin birth of their deities. The master of the pantheon was Du-shara, named after the mountain range culminating east of Petra. Protector of the royal dynasty, he was assimilated to Zeus, god of the sky and lightning, under the name Dusares. His cult was celebrated in Petra in the Great Temple of the lower city, today called Qasr el-Bint. His female consort, Al-Uzza-, who presided over the fertility of the country, was compared to the Egyptian and Greek goddesses Isis and Aphrodite. Originally, the Nabataean gods were materialized by standing stones, called betyles. Independent block, or cut from the rock inside a niche, these stones were not intended to represent the god, but to signal his presence. The origin of this stone is attributed to a biblical episode, in which Jacob, having received a stone from Yhave - in fact a meteorite - interpreted it as a door to heaven and divinity. ITV Christian Auge 2 - VF 10:27:56:10 What is particularly interesting in the Nabataean case is that we have a juxtaposition of completely unfigured betyles and much more elaborate representations which go as far as the classical Greco-Roman figuration. This bust of Dousares is a good example of this type of anthropomorphic representation of Western influence and very far from the original betyl: a black and raw stone. The image of the standing stone, very present in the oriental religions of Antiquity, was also reinterpreted by Christianity. According to Saint Paul, the rock from which the water that quenched the thirst of the Hebrews during the Exodus gushed was a symbol of Christ. The use of betyl has also been perpetuated throughout the Muslim religion with the Black Stone of the Ka'bah, in Mecca, towards which the faithful direct their prayers. With the birth of Islam initiated by Mohammed in the 7th century of the Christian era, the question of divine representation arises again, the scope of which remains relevant today. Faith in the magical power of the icon explains the distrust of Islam, which forbids man from personifying Allah or reproducing the features of his prophet. Because the Koran bans holy images, the Muslim and Western worlds are, today, convinced that the Islamic religion prohibits -- a priori -- any human representation. The Quran says absolutely nothing to support this idea. It is also forgetting the astonishing discovery made in Jordan in the 19th century, which brutally called into question the place of images in Islamic art. Planted in the heart of the steppe, about a hundred kilometers east of Amman, Qosair Amra or "red castle" is an old hammam. Built in the 8th century by an Umayyad prince, the interior decor of this monument immediately surprises the visitor. In fact, in Islam, and more precisely in the Koran, nothing is said against figurative representations. There are certain Hadith - sayings attributed to the prophet - which condemn painters, paintings or even the act of reproducing forms. But none is as concise and precise as the commandment, which in Genesis, simply commands not to create idols. Perhaps among the strictest of theologians, some have adopted an attitude... Not a doctrine, but rather an attitude against figurative representations. And frescoes like those of Qosair Amra which represent naked men and women, bathing and hunting scenes, are filled with figurative representations. Above all, certain bare scenes like the one behind us are not entirely in accordance with Islamic precepts. Thus, human representation holds a considerable place in emerging Islamic art, particularly because of the vitality of local pre-Islamic cultures, Hellenized then Romanized. By adopting, in the 9th century, a hostile attitude to figured painting, the Hadith - a collection of the sayings, deeds and gestures of the Prophet - led to the development of naturalism. At the same time symbolism imposes itself and, with it, the school of calligraphy, this art of beautiful writing which exalts the word of God and creates the illusion of the image, without inducing any contemplation. It was with the appearance of writing that Arabic - until now oral - became the official language. From then on, the unity of the Islamic world was achieved, rallying a large number of populations and their customs, including that of the Bedouins, who in turn would perpetuate Islamic traditions. Bedouin society has preserved and protected them more than other more moderate societies have done, such as in the city for example. And this for two reasons. On the one hand, urban society is more subject to change, while the Bedouins in the desert manage to preserve their values and customs untouched by any contact with other civilizations. Isolated from external influence, they maintain their values through the immutable gestures of daily life. Bedouin society is impervious to the values that outside society tries to impose. The Bedouins are keen to preserve the forms of traditional marriage, in particular the henna ceremony and the numerous festive evenings punctuated by popular songs. The reading of the Fatiha serving to seal the union of the two spouses is part of Islamic culture. In certain Bedouin tribes, marriage remains the business of the head of the family... When you are a boy, at 25, you get married, and you have to leave your birthplace. As for me, I went to the mountains, I traveled all the mountains and looked at girls a lot, looking for the sweet and pretty one I loved. While she was tending her goats, I tried several times to talk to her, but I was shy and didn't dare approach her. Afterwards, I went to see my father to tell him that I had found the girl to marry. My father told me NO and advised me to stay away from it. What did I do ? I went to my mother and asked her to go and talk to my father about it to convince him to say yes. My mother went there and since then everything has returned to normal, we got married, we lived in our own house, we walk together, we live a happy and sweet life, me and the girl who babysat the goats. If Chaher chose to continue living in Badawi, the majority of Bedouins opted for urban life. This phenomenon contributes to the cultural unity of the country. All this helps to create a positive image of Jordanian society open to fraternity and solidarity. The best example being cohabitation with Palestinian immigrants since the events of 1948. If Jordan had rejected the rules of good neighborliness as well as its Arab roots and the roots of Islamic brotherhood, it would not be able to receive its immigrants. They are considered brothers by the Jordanians who happily welcome them to their table. This is a great example of Arab unity offered by Jordanians who are admired by others in general. >> Almost exclusively Arab, Jordanian society is, in fact, made up of nearly 50% by Palestinians. The other half is made up of ethnic Transjordanians and a diversity of immigrants from the Arab world. National unity, born from the desire to combine the different identities, is realized, in particular, within cultural and artistic creation. "The performing Arts center" embodies this political will. These young dancers, from the various communities constituting Jordanian society, come together every year to prepare and represent the colors of the kingdom during international festivals. This policy, initiated by King Hussein in the 1960s, aims to export a dynamic, creative and cosmopolitan image of Jordan. The Hashemite Kingdom's reputation as a welcoming land dates back to the 19th century. It was in 1859, following the conquest of the Caucasus by the Russian Empire, that the Circassians, of the Muslim faith, established themselves in Jordan. Numbering 20,000, they now form the country's main ethnic minority. Welcoming Jordan has also shown itself to be respectful of different religious faiths. The country, which is home to 90% Sunni Muslims, also has a minority of Druze, as well as a large Christian community, comprising a third of Orthodox Greeks and representing 8% of the population. It's like in the United States: a melting pot! This is Jordanian society! We have, on the one hand, people who came from all over the Middle East and, on the other hand, hundreds of thousands of Jordanians who left our country to work in neighboring Gulf states during the oil boom. We have therefore experienced significant migration flows which have changed our society. You know, we've been through so many wars, the war of 1948, the war of 1967, the first Gulf war, and before the Iran-Iraq war and the second Gulf war... And, in many ways , it changed the face of Jordan. We are still in a state of migratory flux and we are still searching for our identity. Maintaining an internal balance, in such a regional and global geopolitical context, constitutes, in fact, a major challenge! It is not so simple ! ,With everything that is happening in the region, it is difficult for us to stabilize. Recently, the Americans invaded Iraq. They completely took possession of an Arab country. There will, no doubt, be other changes in the region. Saudi Arabia will probably no longer be what it is today. It is the same for Syria, for Egypt. We don't know what will happen on the other side of the Jordan. Will there be a Palestinian state? Will there be peace? What will be the nature of population movements? We do not know. I think the whole world is far from stabilizing. The Hashemite Kingdom is today led by Abdullah II, son of King Hussein. Coming from the rich and trading tribe of the Quraysh who dominated Mecca in the 7th century, the Hashemites are directly descended from the grandfather of Muhammad: Hachem. The Hashemite dynasty entered the international political scene in 1916, under the leadership of Sheriff Hussein Ibn Ali, who joined the British in the great Arab revolt against the Ottomans. The Ottoman Empire fell, Laurence of Arabia was made a hero, and Hussein Ibn Ali was recognized as the father of the Arab revolution. In 1923, his son Abdallah I, emir of Transjordan under English control, was entrusted with a territory. At the end of the Second World War, and in gratitude for his attachment to the allies, he was, on May 25, 1946, placed on the throne of the Kingdom of Jordan, now independent. But in 1948, the Israeli-Arab conflict engaged him in a double-edged strategy: by annexing the West Bank and dividing Palestine, he attracted inter-Arab wrath, and he was assassinated in 1951 in Jerusalem. After a very short reign of Talal, the real successor of Abdullah I was Hussein who, in 1953, was crowned king of Jordan, when he was only eighteen years old. The sovereign then sets himself a double challenge: regain the confidence of the inter-Arab forces while attracting the favor of the United States, favorable to peace with Israel. Hussein achieves his goals, relying on Bedouin tribal forces. The Hashemite dynasty emerged strengthened from this singular fight: in less than 80 years, it succeeded in transforming a state of artificial creation into a real nation. This is how the Bedouin tribes still embody a breeding ground of national identity today. Their values have become refuges, their traditions landmarks, and their attachment to a proud and independent Arabism, the spearhead of the Hashemite kingdom. Jordanians have three character traits in common, I do not exclude other peoples from these distinctive signs. First of all, Jordanians believe in dignity, human dignity. For them it is the most important thing, it is placed far ahead of economic, financial and other considerations. Then I would say, generosity and hospitality. Jordanians are a very generous and hospitable people, especially in their homes. When you enter their home as a guest, there is nothing you want that they won't offer you. Finally, they are very conservative. They believe in destiny. It's amazing how people accept what they believe to be their destiny, no matter how hard it may be. Most Jordanians believe in destiny, in the principles of fate. Having been able to preserve its identity, its unity and its independence, Jordan -- while continuing to commit to peace in the Middle East -- is striving, today, to build a strong economy. This is how several free trade zones with the United States have recently emerged, opening the door to a future "made in the USA". The question of culture is very important. We are deeply Arab, we are deeply religious, Islam has a very strong influence on our population. The West... many countries in Europe - if not all - and certainly also the United States consider us as a model, a sort of bridge, if you like, between the fundamentalist extremists of Islam, the religious and the West, where there is individual freedom and collective freedoms, where there is democracy and pluralism. We are not perfect, but we are committed to this path, so we are looked at as a possible model. Jordan's vocation is to be first and foremost an open country, open to all civilizations, also open to all faiths, Islamic and Christian. This openness makes it a model country for peaceful cohabitation, I think. So this openness is the one, as I said, which makes Jordan a country where life is good. Thus, more than 2500 years of history separate the Hashemites from the Nabataeans. To speak of direct descent between these two peoples would certainly be an exaggeration, but if time has eroded the rock, it has not succeeded in erasing the strength of soul of those who, generation after generation, have lived on this land. As if each blow of the chisel cutting the rock of Petra still resonates in the heart of each Jordanian, engraving in their memory the furrows of their identity.