Okada Ayon Co., Ltd. is a company engaged in the manufacturing, sales, and repair of construction machinery. Today, we will show you the process of creating large-scale hydraulic breakers and iron cutting machines. The large-scale hydraulic breaker is an attachment used in the demolition of concrete structures, performing primary crushing of walls and beams at construction sites. Let's take a look together. Melting process. Iron scrap, the raw material. Melting iron scrap in a furnace. Molding process. Filling the mold with sand. Applying a special liquid to make mold removal easier. Mold assembly process. Creating molds for the shears. Casting process. Pouring molten metal into the mold. Removing the mold. Blast processing. Blast processing involves projecting countless abrasive particles to impact the workpiece, performing surface treatments such as roughening and grinding. Gas cutting. Welding process. Non-destructive inspection. 3D measurement. Machine processing. Paint preparation. Painting process. Assembly process. Testing. Applying rust-proof paint. Logo painting. Finishing. Shipping. Asaka Industries Co., Ltd. is a company that was founded in 1661 and manufactures and sells shovels, scoops, gardening tools, and more. Today, we will show you the process of making shovels. Let's watch it together. Cutting process. This is the steel sheet that serves as the material for the shovel. Blade sharpening. Stamping. Molding. Bending test of the molded shovel (before hardening). It bends when a load is applied. Hardening. The scoop parts are heated at a high temperature. After heating, they are rapidly cooled. Testing after hardening process. It breaks when subjected to impact. Tempering. After hardening, the scoop parts are reheated at a low temperature and then cooled to provide flexibility and resilience. Testing after tempering process. The result is a shovel that doesn't break or bend. Pickling. Pickling is a chemical cleaning process that removes oxide films and rust from the surface. Polishing the handle tube. Manufacturing the wooden handle for the shovel. The material for the handle is Japanese oak wood. Sorting. Handle grip creation. Shaping the square timber into a round rod. Trimming both ends. Center splitting. Drilling holes. Riveting. The handle is soaked in hot water to make it easier to work on. Shaping by pressing molds. Drying. Fitting the handle grip. Polishing. Assembly of wooden handle shovels. Painting process. Drying process. Applying the seal. Visual inspection of finished products. Packaging. Assembly and welding of steel pipe handle shovels. Cutting of steel pipe. Automatic cutting to the desired handle length. Molding the handle. Expanding the urethane inside the handle to create an ergonomic shape. The urethane is removed after molding. Assembly of the handle grip. Welding. Assembly of the handle grip and handle. Welding. Final assembly. Welding. Visual inspection of finished products. Durability testing. Demonstration. Ajinomoto Co., Ltd. was founded in 1909 and is a company that manufactures and sells a variety of seasonings. Today I will show you the process by which Ajinomoto Co.'s &quot;Hondashi&quot; (Japanese-style dashi stock) is made from the harvest of bonito. Let's take a look at it together. Yaizu Port Unloading Skipjack caught near the equator of the Pacific Ocean is frozen and transported to Yaizu Port. Separation of tuna and bonito (bonito is used for &quot;Hondashi&quot;) Demolition process Cut off the head of the bonito and remove the internal organs. The cut heads are used as fertilizer and the internal organs are used to make fish sauce. Boiling process Simmer in boiling water at 92degC to 98degC for about 1 hour. Bonito broth is also an important ingredient for &quot;Hondashi.&quot; Fish bone removal. The removed bones are used for &quot;Daily Calcium Hondashi.&quot; Smoking process. Once the bones have been removed, the dried bonito is placed in the drying warehouse. &quot;Hondashi&quot; is a blend of three types of dried bonito flakes that have been specially smoked to create the aromatic flavor of bonito. We use oak firewood, which is suitable for smoking bonito flakes. Out of consideration for the environment, we use oak firewood that is 30 years old. At this time of year, oak trees sprout new buds from the cut stumps and will return to their original state in about 10 years. Filling with finished bonito flakes. Shipping. Ajinomoto Foods Co., Ltd. Mie Factory Adding bonito flakes. Adding raw materials such as umami seasonings, salt, and sugar. Bonito extract is also used as an ingredient. Grinding of bonito flakes. Granulation process. The raw materials are mixed and pushed out to form granules. Packaging process. Boxed. We recommend adding &quot;Hondashi&quot; to hot water at the same time as adding the ingredients to miso soup. Tasting. Yokoyama Reimei Yumi Seisakusho is a bow workshop that manufactures the 'Miyakonojo Oyumi,' a nationally designated traditional craft. The manufacturing process of Miyakonojo Oyumi is said to have been established in the early Edo period, and most of the over 200 steps are performed manually. Today, we will show you the process of making Miyakonojo Oyumi. Let's take a look at it together. Soot bamboo making Soot bamboo refers to brown bamboo used for the inner bamboo of the bow. It is continuously smoked in a chamber for 5 to 10 years. Smoking brings out the natural color and luster that cannot be achieved with artificial painting. Firing the bow bamboo and core bamboo. Roast the bow bamboo and wipe off the oil. Bamboo fitting The length and node positions of bamboo vary. Bamboo shaving Each bow bamboo has a different thickness, so each one is manually shaved. Bow bamboo and core material Glue material, glue skin. After gluing the bow bamboo and core material, bend the bow using traditional techniques from the previous generation and drive in wedges. Remove the wedges. Finishing Shave the soundboard part to match the bow. Stringing String the bow and adjust the bow shape. Handle binding After the finished bow is further strung and finally adjusted, wrap it with rattan. Completion The shoulder insertion with the arrow is a staged performance for filming. It is not recommended to pull the bow with the arrow attached during practice due to the risk of damage or injury. Demonstration Heianzumi Issui is a company based in Kyoto, Japan, primarily engaged in the production and sale of armor and helmets. Today, we will show you the process of creating Samurai armor, known as Kyoto armor. Kyoto armor refers to armor produced in Kyoto for displaying as May dolls. It is essentially a scaled-down version of authentic armor. Now, let's take a look together. Creating the neck guard. Crafting the neck guard (the rear head protection) from iron plates. Drilling holes. Making Wave pattern. Cutting. Applying gold leaf. Creating the helmet bowl. Making the cheeksCrafting the mask and cheek guards. Heianzumi Issui, Master Tatsuto Imamura. Sawing. Polishing by Charcoal . Making decorations. Creating the cords. Crafting the gauntlets and tassets. Creating the shin guards. Applying the fukurin to the shin guards. Finishing the shin guards. Decorative metalwork. Assembly and final touches. Completion.