- Year 2014, we decided to and we decided that we want So we spent our last money and you know what we do? We just go to DFJ, a fund and we just knock on hey, we started this amazing company. And they're like, you need no, we can't talk to you Year 2015, we managed to get investment, 500 startups, moved to Silicon Valley and I meet this radio host. And she says, you know, tomorrow I have Tim Draper just call us and ask him for investment and I will let you through. So I called the radio show, I talked to Tim, I asked him to become a mentor and he's like, why would you just agree to who you hear for the So yes, he said no and I Year 2019, Tim Draper's team reaches out and asks me whether I want to at Draper University, and I say of course. So we're here in San Mateo gonna talk to a billionaire, a person who changes the Tim Draper, let's do it. (upbeat music) Tim Draper is an American investor. One of the first invest in His grandfather has started California's Tim has multiple businesses, including his VC Fund and In 2013, Tim started an initiative to divide California which cost him almost $5 million, but the plan fell through. He also runs a TV show, Meet the Drapers. Fun fact, he owns an Island. Tim's daughter had a TV which has inspired this channel. When I Googled your name, TV actor. - No way, that's hilarious. - Yep. And I am a TV actor, Is that right? - Yeah, well, that's what they say. - That's hilarious. Yeah, well, you know, I was, my sister created something on Nickelodeon called The Naked Brothers Band and I was the principal and her sons, my nephews, and my daughter, Jessie, she was one of the main characters too. But I came in as sort of a as the principal of the school. And that was before I was the - What is one word that would - One word? - Boy, lot of words are coming to mind. They're sort of fun, excitable. I think transformative is probably the one because I helped push the internet forward when it was getting started. Now I'm pushing, I'm helping push Bitcoin and the decentralized world forward. And actually I think that's And actually, even before that, I was pushing for entrepreneurship and venture capital around the world and that was my mission. So yeah, I guess transformative or yeah, a transformer - We should tell Google with transformer. - Yep. And so you have so many businesses going. You have Draper VC, you you have Draper University, which is also business, The Prairie Club. Yeah, we also have this a network of venture funds They cover about 48 So my mission there was to make sure that we could fund companies - And out of those businesses, which generates the most profits for you? - Oh, the venture capital business by far. Oh by far. - And can you name any like the most successful exits that you have that you've had? - Oh, sure. Skype, Hotmail, Tesla, SpaceX, Twitch, Robinhood, Corda. I think we have 35 unicorns fat unicorns. - Who are you most - You know, that's interesting because I would say I'm probably because it spread communications all the way around the world for free. And I came up with the And my original idea was saying, P.S., I love you, get your And the founders thought I was crazy. I just kept pounding. And finally they said, but no P.S. I love you. And I think we would have and loving world if every single email or even any of these P.S. I love you at the We still have a very because it did open the And I think Skype did the same thing, but did it for video and audio. So I'm happy to have been in spreading communications We're more global because of it. And all these things are really other forms of viral marketing. Facebook, anything that or a spread of something around the world, those really do have viral marketing kind of built into 'em. So, yeah, happy to have come up with that. It's kind of a weird time. And I had this idea and And they were looking at me like, oh God, of all the investors I had in the world, why did we end up with this guy? You know, we could have had but this is the one who said yes? But eventually I think they - And out of all your making you the happiest person or? - Well, that's really interesting. I am generally happy, always have been, all through my life. In fact, people say on your birthday, oh, you know, whatever. And I say, no, every year gets better. And that is really the case. Every year has been better than the last. So I'm really, I'm happy all the time. The things that make me happy, I think are the variety of life. The fact that I can be and I can go to survival I can meet with you, I can travel around the world, I have a network of venture It's all great. Somebody asked me earlier and how that helps me. Well, the way it does is it takes me off the track because most people in and they can't quite get off that track. But if they leave the track, they'll come back being And so I always encourage so that they can get off the track, come back and be better at what they do. - Where's your focus then? Do you have like something that you're truly focused on these days? - Well, I am really excited about the transformation of the world. I look at the old world as tribal. We used to create these So we could protect me from you, from you were Russian, right? Okay, there were all these weird borders that were created between US and Russia. Turns out if you meet the people, they're all wonderful on But the governments are still because they can justify and their defense departments or whatever by saying, hey, we're tribal. With Bitcoin, all of a It's decentralized. It's so global that governments can't And that means that all are potentially gonna be global. And so even governments are gonna be able to compete And that ends up being such a huge change. And now governments have to and they have to say, well, what does my customer want, instead of what do I want? And I think that what you're seeing now is just the opposite because they're reacting to realizing in some ways they aren't In some ways, sure, you still and the police and all that, but in some ways it's like, hey, I can get my medical I could get my educational and I could get my workman's comp from a country that's never been invented that might be 11 miles I think governance is gonna be one of the biggest coming forward and people are gonna have to start adapting to this new world. And a lot of governance the blockchain, and a smart contract. Because what is governance? It is a security blanket. It is an insurance policy. Well with a smart contract in Bitcoin, you can actually create that doesn't require all those You can use AI to detect fraud. I mean, this is the beginning of something that's really And I think we're, you know, the world says, how long is this gonna be? Oh, of course when I'm dead. But no, I think it's gonna And we're gonna see an enormous change. And some of the countries are gonna be completely left behind because they're going to and other countries are because they're gonna say things like when Japan said, or Malta says, oh, Bitcoin is - And you're actually doing something on a local level, right? Are you still pursuing this idea of splitting California into? - Yeah, it's consistent with my thinking because California is It's so beautiful here and it's beautiful up and down the state, that the government can and we have to put up with it and they provide the worst California is number one in taxes and number 49 in education, number 50 as the place to do business, the infrastructure is way fallen behind. It's a disaster, but because hey, it's good weather. - Silicon Valley, yeah. Well, if you break it then all those different states have to compete with and there'll be accountable just the way businesses are And those businesses have to compete with other I believe that governments and that's starting to happen. And California is one of those places where they can get away if we don't kind of break it up. It's also the biggest state. Why not? - So do you think you're - No, because the people are this one union boss Nunez basically made it so that first of all, the they discounted them. That was for six California's. For three California's, they twisted the arms of the six Supreme Court and they pulled it off the ballot the day before it was supposed to print. So I went and I got twice the so they couldn't do that to me again. Instead, they just pulled They said this would be disruptive. I said, course it would. That's the whole point. - Yeah. And do you see yourself leaving or you think that's the best for you? - I know, I'm seeing a and it's very sad. A lot of great businesses I've got so much of my I've got the school. I think as we build out I will be less tied to the state, but I kind of feel like why don't I see if I But it turns out that those So maybe there's another way and maybe there's a way where the union boss will be satisfied so that he feels like, and it'll be good for California, not just for his, you know, the taxi, he forces all of his government (laughing) - So for you, is this the - I actually like almost Yeah, although I was in Moscow and as soon as I walked out, I felt all the heat leave oh my gosh, that's why It just disappeared. It was like all the energy of my life just got sucked right out. So I don't think I'd want That would be the one place, I think I would probably but I wouldn't mind - [Female] That's where I'm from. - And I wouldn't mind being in, oh boy, all around, just and those are such beautiful And so I think there are and wonderful places And I think I would be living in all of them. I'd kind of have to get back because I'm an ocean swimmer and I kind of feel like Once in awhile, I get this like urge and I just have to go swim in the ocean. - I have a couple of questions billionaire Tim Draper. Do you drive yourself? - Drive myself, yeah or I Uber sometime. - Oh cool, what car do you have? - I have a Tesla, of course. - [Female] Of course, yeah. - You don't back a company and then not drive their car. - Yeah, I saw your- I drive the S and it is fabulous. - Nice. And when you fly somewhere, - No, I actually go commercial. You don't get rich being extravagant, you get rich being cheap. - That's a great one. Remember that. Do you have security? - No. - I'm just asking this because you, and like people that surround you for many people all over the world, you're like superstars and they want to know - No, it would be ridiculous. You know what's really funny is that I kind of have people that are protecting me One of the other things you know, we had, when Draper University across the we had these thefts. And then all we did was and we even caught the one I mean, we have him on camera. I think cameras are really valuable. And so I think all of us are a lot safer than we used to be many years ago. And I think people who surround themselves with a bunch of security, I think they're living in the old world. I mean I'm living with cameras around me, so, hey, yeah, go ahead but you're gonna be on camera. - I actually wanted to, like people who guard Karen has been with you for 75 interviews to select her. Can you give any advice for hiring people? - That's right, you read my book. - I did, of course. - [Female] It's a great book. - So hiring people, yeah. Hire very slowly, pick very carefully and then if they're not working out, get rid of 'em very quickly. - Yeah, I actually But I also read Amazon reviews and some people are like this guy can not really because he came to this being backed by his family and having this amazing education. What would you tell- - Don't you think those are positives? (laughing) I'm not quite sure what's wrong here. Well, I think it's great You know, I've been lucky because I grew up in the Silicon Valley and we started out where, you know, I, at one point and we were kind of just But then I got to watch, while his influence as and my grandfather's inspiration helped grow this incredible And then when I was about And so that was the beginning of, that was where I was able and then go to Stanford and So I got an amazing education. But I didn't grow up with much And then we had a ton. - And you get to hang - That was the other thing that was great. My dad had some very influential friends and I got to meet them. And so I ended up meeting of many different countries and also some of the best some of the big business people. That made me feel very - And you hang out with them daily, like amazing entrepreneurs. Who is the most impactful entrepreneur these days in Silicon - It depends on what you call impact. I mean, I would say still the impact of all that and all that information around the world is probably making the biggest impact. But I'd say that somebody who would encourage more that would probably be Elon, because he has done a couple that people pretty much around the world thought were impossible. One is to launch rockets without NASA and the other is to in the United States. That was something nobody And those were major breakthroughs, but still, you know, the and the guys who started Skype have made a big impact on all of us. And I think if you, actually now that I think about it, if you asked me this I'd say Satoshi Nakamoto, because he created Bitcoin and Bitcoin is gonna have an impact on all the biggest And that, terrific, I mean, and he stayed anonymous, which means that he won't get that all these other guys I mean, I don't quite get it. Maybe there's a little but why would we be trying to take down Jeff Bezos and Mark Zuckerberg and all these people who are and have done the most for us? I mean, our planet is so much better because of these people. Our lives are so much better We should be celebrating Steve Jobs should be celebrated And when we die. - Yeah, maybe people are afraid of too much control - Yeah and that's a healthy thing. I mean, there's something If that's the issue, if it's just to take I think that's unhealthy. I kind of feel like, look, on people communicating, you know, all of that. It's been a fantastic business. It is a great business. They've done great things. If they are using your data to make money, or if they're advertising to you, well, then you can always And I don't, that part is bothering me a lot. it's giving you a free and you're complaining about Yeah, I know what you're talking about. And out of the investors who is the smartest these days? - My kids. - Your kids? - My son at Boost, Boost VC is an accelerator, and he he's doing it for, he says, make sci-fi a reality. And he was the first first accelerator going after VR, he's gone after oceans, and anything that's sort of sci-fi. My daughter, she actually which you modeled this after and then she is a VC only backing women and she's based down in LA. My other son worked with me for four years and he decided that when we were gonna he said, no, I'm out He's an amazing investor. He brought me Robinhood. I think that they all, and my other daughter's an entrepreneur, so I can't say she's a great investor, but maybe she is. - Cool, yeah. I know where you're back to back. I have a couple of last Is it only for YouTube? - Here's the thing it's and the Times network and both of them have which is great for us. Good entrepreneurs coming out of India and it's been fantastic. We are looking for more distribution. We will be distributing it just after they do on and our reasoning is we want to make sure we fill the crowdfunding. And it looks like a lot have raised the full million - Amazing. - So this show is working - Awesome, yeah congrats on it. - It's really kind of a fun thing and we have a huge following and people, I mean the cool thing about it is it's sort of a nice shark tank, but it also allows the viewers to come invest in the companies. And we do it very easily. It's very easy for a viewer And it's been great for all of us. We really enjoy it and with my dad and my daughter and whoever else from the family decides they want to be on the show. - Yeah, that's great. And I read your bucket so my company's a technology platform that allows people to So we're giving you two whenever you decide to - Oh, terrific, oh great. Yeah, my Japanese is not - This is immersive. So you stay with locals, you go to a local language - Really? And this is a part of - This is our company, yeah. This is why we're in Silicon Valley 'cause we got investment from here, moved from Russia and settled - And settled here. But how does it tie to Japanese? - It allows people to and learn languages. And Japanese is one of the - Oh, terrific. Oh that would be very helpful. - And we actually, we work as an agent with so we could do a Draper University as well like as an institution. - Oh interesting. - I don't know if you've ever worked with educational agents, but this is a great source of traffic. - We are looking at how, I mean, 'cause now the model works. We've figured out how It took a long time. - But it's direct marketing - Word of mouth mostly. And some governments are bringing their best and sending them. - Nice that's pretty cool. - Terrific. Great, oh, I better fist bump 'cause I don't want to give you any- - Yep. - Definitely not. - Thank you so much, Jim, thank you. Yeah, your book is amazing. - Yeah, it's fun. - Yeah, every word. And I had these people come to me and said they wanted to be my ghost writer and I thought about it and I thought, well then it won't be the same. They don't have the same sense of humor. They weren't there. So they'll try to butter to try to make it a better story instead of having it be real. And so when you read it, you get my whole personality, right? Don't you feel it? - All the stories. Oh my God, that was my favorite part, all the stories on Silicon Valley. - Oh, wasn't that fun? Yeah and you know when I wrote it? I have to travel all over the place 'cause I have venture funds in all different parts of the world. So I'd get on the airplane and I'd pull this out and I'd just, I wrote the whole thing on this. And then I did my editing on the computer. - Yeah, I wrote my book as well. It's a best seller in Russia. - Fantastic. Oh, do you want to translate mine? We don't have a Russian translation. - I can give you the best a publisher. - That would be great. - 'Cause I have the best publisher. - Yeah, that would great. The security question, what - Just, you know, billionaire - But I don't want that. And the other thing is I wouldn't get anything done because I can't even get to all that. I know I can't get to it. So it'd be like, okay, sure, but you need like 15 before you can get to it. - I'm gonna make a post on with a photo of us. - Okay perfect. Great do we have a photo? Let's do a photo. - [Male] Yeah, let's do a photo. (laughing) - I like that one. Let's do just some. - Okay a normal one, okay. - Yeah, awesome. - Thank you so much. It was so exciting. - All the best with the baby. - Thank you so much. - A girl. Oh, you're gonna love it. - [Female] Thank you. - [Tim] Girls are easier at the beginning and harder in the middle. - Okay, thank you. Thanks. He's so sweet.