Lunch boxes made from wood are very popular in Japan. And I'm happy that people enjoy the special aroma of the boxes. I love this product with all my heart and want to keep making it! Nice to meet you. Hello. This cedar tree is over 100 years old. And only a very small part of this tree can actually be used for a wooden lunchbox. Only around 10%. It's a very valuable material. Like large fatty tuna, if you speak in terms of fish. You can only use this part for making a wooden lunchbox. I wear gloves to avoid touching it with my bare hands. If I touch it with my bare hands, the sweat and oil from my hands will soak into the wood. The wood won't bend around these. The grain of the wood is usually wavy or knotted at these knots, so I try to avoid these areas when taking material. And I'm also checking the pattern of the wood. This looks good. And now I'll make it easier to process. I'm adjust the width of the material next. This white part is called &quot;Shirata,&quot; and since this part is not used, I will remove it. I've been making wooden lunchboxes for about 10 years now. Well, I'm getting better at it, or rather, I'm making fewer mistakes now. I'm able to provide more consistent quality. With good material, I could always make something even better. There is no end to improvement. The shaved surface is now straight and flat. Like this, it fits perfectly. Now I will adjust the width of this thickness more precisely. Wood is a very tricky material. When it dries, it shrinks, bends, warps, and changes a lot. On the contrary, it spreads out when it absorbs moisture. That is proof that the tree is alive. It even continues to live on after it is tuned into a lunch box. That's the kind of material wood is. So, how to shape it and craft with it, is very interesting work. I do love it. This is the thickness of the wood that I'm about to cut off. Now that I've roughly prepped the material, I will adjust it to a more precise thickness of 3 mm. Right now it's probably about 5.5 or 6 mm. Next, I will make a groove for the bottom plate to fit into with this machine. This is the groove where the bottom plate snaps into place after bending. I do this process while cleaning and changing around tools. This is the machine for pinching. In summer, it was way too hot, and I was working like this the whole time I make a lot of my own working tools. That is one of them. It's a machine that cuts circles out of boards. I made this one myself, too. This is a regular belt sander. If you buy it, it's expensive, costing hundreds of thousands of yen. And sometimes there are no used ones available. Then it's faster to make it myself. This is another tool I made by modifying my own power tools. I use a vacuum cleaner to adsorb the material. right here, snugly. If this is not adsorbed, the material will become cracked. I am the only one who does the processing, so I just try to finish it as quickly as possible. The reason why the tips are thinly shaved is so that the two pieces can be put together. This kind of shape makes it easy to pack a lunch. You could also use it for sandwiches for on the go. The grain of the wood is a little wavy, and this is where it is difficult to bend. It cracks or breaks if the wood is not bent properly. After this process is complete, the next step is to put this in water. This is what it looks like after being soaked in water overnight. I will now boil it in water and bend it. Wood doesn't bend yet when it's not yet boiled. I'll take a quick break. Here's my lunch box for today. I boil them for about 15 to 30 minutes and then bend it. The grain of the wood comes alive by bending it in this way, and it looks very beautiful. The good thing about wooden lunchboxes is that it's made from natural materials. And because it is formed from a single board, you can fully enjoy the smell and aroma of the original cedar wood. That's what makes it so great. I insert the bark of the tree in here. I make a cut here. This is cherry bark. It's the bark of a cherry tree. I know you have cherry blossoms, but these peel off, don't they? Tree bark, cherry tree. I cut it into thin strips, just the clean part where there are no knots. I'll shave this down. Cherry bark is soft and durable. Very flexible. When I heat the wood and wet it with water, it expands. Then it closes off. It's done. If I don't wear a dust mask, I get rhinitis the next day. I have a very hard time with this dust. Well, if it wasn't for such a long time, it would be fine. We draw a line on each one to match the shape of its loop, and then cut and process and adjust it accordingly. The most important thing to keep in mind is to wash it well as soon as possible after using it. And to dry it thoroughly. After washing, hang it up to dry with this inside side up. The best way is to have more than one and rotate through them. That reduces mold growth and things like that. With no coating, this is how shiny it naturally is. If you put meat dishes inside, it is easy to get grease on the wood, so please use a little detergent. Basically, lukewarm water is fine. I really want to keep making these wooden lunchboxes in the future too. It connects me with a lot of interesting people too.