- Hey guys, welcome back to my channel. I'm Alexandra, and you the series where I tackle under 500 square feet and show you how to make them beautiful, (tongue clicks) I just think it's so funny that You gotta a makeover to do, so. (Alexandra gasps) - Wow, that looks stunning. - Let's get started. (upbeat synth music) Today, I am making over Another Studio Fix episode for you. I'm so excited. If you love Studio Fix make sure you hit that Subscribe button so you don't miss any future Let's hop on a call and chat with Gokhan about what he envisions for this space. (button clicks) Nice to meet you. - You're a real person, oh my god. No, I'm just kidding. (both laughing) I am so excited about your space. I feel like you have so many great pieces. - [Gokhan] Oh, thank you. Took a lot of time on Marketplace. (both laughing) - Okay, so the point of this to get to know your space and Tell me all about your space. - I took some notes. I'm also taking notes, so. - What I do like is that it's so I can kind of do whatever with it. There's a lot of space 'cause I have friends over all the time. Because it's a studio my living space, and also a in the same room, I've with furniture without blocking anything because I don't get a lot of light. I have one window. It's a big window, but I have one window. - Yeah. - That's pretty much it in - I feel like also you on that list, which is your Like you have beautiful pieces. - Yes, I like a lot of eclectic stuff. Like my coffee table is very postmodern, whereas my TV credenza I like the juxtaposition of that. It just makes it interesting, right? - You have such a great You just need that kind of extra push, pulling it all together. - I need the dots connected. I have the map, I have the dots. I just need to connect them. - Okay, so walk me through Or like things that you are - I guess firstly because you kind of just enter into the space, that feels slightly where you take off your shoes. I want like a little bit of for a second, do the things, - Yeah. - In terms of the living space, the reason I only have just a about the arm chairs that I want something that's kind of low because I don't wanna Sofas that are modular, but also when I have to be conversational and Even though I do have a like the idea of like just - When you host, is everyone kind of gathering in that living space? Are they in your bedroom area? Like what's the vibe? - Oh my god, yes, that's the thing. I would like them to - Yes, okay. (laughs) - Yeah, people end up like - It's so funny when you go &quot;I guess I'm gonna sit on your bed.&quot; Like it's just what people do. - Yes, I'm like, &quot;Those are - Okay, cool. - Because I'm on the entry there is like good morning light. Like right now it's pretty bright. But there's a lot of traffic so it's like how do you get light - Have you ever thought about or do you really wanna be able to see like what's happening outside? - I think that could be something that I just never considered it and I didn't know like But I mean, if it works, it works. For me, it's really the light. - But keeping privacy at the same time. I think there's definitely a - And then because I use my space also to do like self tapes, I I've been trying to without having to have and then I have to like steam every time. But also like make it look like, you know, this is not just a photo - Right. - So right now I have this This was my solution, but I don't know what to do There's a little like and I always have to move the it for my audition 'cause this - So, sorry, just so I understand. It's just not functioning that like it's kind of a hassle. Like you have to move your table. - The backdrop itself now of ease, but once I don't use it, and I put it back up, - Got it, that makes a lot of sense, yep. Okay, let's go through your inspo. Like I said, I feel like you have so many great pieces we can work with, but walk me through why What's the overall vibe? What colors do you like, - So it's really, for me, Of course I care about but I definitely like put more weight on how I feel in a space. Warm, cozy, but also bright. I love things that feel but also it has personality. - Totally. I love like a smoky glass. In terms of like seating, I Anything that's kind of comfortable but not too comfortable. (laughs) - Yes. - And I love like the color I love neutrals, like a nice beige. - Any colors you do not like? - I guess pink. I'm not too much of a - Me with my? - But the thing is I love it in yours. I watch your videos, I'm - I'm just kidding, I'm just kidding. - Pink paint every time. I love it though. But just like I'm like, in my space, I feel like I don't have - It's also not the vibe for your space. I think you're so clear about And I think that's always It's like how do you make but also like big and Any pieces you are willing to part with? - [Gokhan] Essentially, and the TV stand are that I love, love. - [Gokhan] This dining situation, over it. Absolutely over it. - Okay, awesome. Anything else you wanna add? This was very helpful. Yep, everything's tapped. (both laughing) - I love that you wrote It's so great. I am really excited. I will meet you on reveal day. And yeah, congrats for It's so exciting. - Thank you, I appreciate it. - Okay, have a great day. - So right off the top, we are working with some incredible pieces but there's a lack of cohesion, and the way they're all working Even though Gokhan's he has these pops of color, to play with because they're feeling interesting. His inspo to me feels very like cool apartment vibes, you know. Like I want him to walk into &quot;I'm a cool person who lives - I'm not like a regular - So here's what I'm thinking. To start, I wanna bring in a ground the living room and between the living room I wanna bring in a cool, off lots of natural light in the space. Gokhan's apartment faces It's kind of right there in your face. So I wanna add some and stick reed window film. That's not gonna block but it is gonna give him And then just like a lot Gokhan really struggles with division. So we are going to create to help create an actual and also divide the rest of the I also need to find a solution He uses a backdrop to film auditions. He's an actor. And right now this space He has to move a bunch of and it just doesn't look the greatest. So I wanna turn this wall into I'm thinking a really big but also still keep his backdrop functional and easier for So Alana and I are off to Homesense. We're gonna try and find some and pieces to pull (air whooshing) I'm at Homesense, shopping It's a very rainy day, and I'm around Homesense. I'm with Natacha and Alana, and we're gonna see what That's a nice mirror. So Alana has taken me to and it is incredible. It's huge. There's so many good finds here. I want everything, I've been but I need to focus. I love these benches that and they have storage. (upbeat music) I'm getting so distracted to look at in this Homesense, 250, like we love that. Okay, also not what we're looking for, but like how stylish is this chair? So cute. If you're looking for table lamps, Homesense always has such And they always have really large ones, really tiny ones for like And then they also have like But I notice that they So if you're looking for like your nightstands, such a variation of lamps, really stylish lamps, and We love. The music in here is so loud, you guys. I'm so sorry. (signal droning) Okay, looking for a side table for Gokhan. We wanna do something with closed storage. I know he said that was important to him. There are a couple options, (lighthearted music) Love that top, or there's these. Now, I know these aren't closed storage, but I'm thinking we They really match the style I think we might grab these. (lighthearted music continues) And we'll take you to The basket section is one because there are always so A lot of them also come in sets, which is nice if you But let's look for one (lighthearted music continues) Or maybe black. (lighthearted music continues) - Goodbye. (lighthearted music continues) I think we just need to grab Love these. Look at this. (laughs) - What is it? - [Alana] What kind though? Lime Chili Tart. - Should we use this as an opportunity to put another pop of blue? Oh, that smells so good. Okay, it's goin' in the cart. (lighthearted music continues) Okay, this is our haul. (laughs) Four carts. Packed to the brim! (laughs) Dave is painting Gokhan's studio in Cloud White by Benjamin Moore. I wanted to give Gokhan's You guys know I always say this tip, but it really does make Cloud White's a really creamy white. It has yellow undertone, so it's gonna make his space which is what we're going for. (upbeat music) (brush swiping) Hey guys, welcome to prep day. I'm feeling really Sun shining outside, it's So today is basically just an install day. We're gonna be installing a room divider. I think it's gonna take us like the full, the full eight hours. - Graham's shaking his head, no! How many hours does it take? - Should we all &quot;Prices Is Right&quot; it? - Ooh, I like that. That's how long it's gonna take. - I like the time. - Yeah, just give it a time. - So you're saying 1:15 then? - Yeah. - Including lunch. - I'm going 2:32. I should go actually at 2:16. I think that's the &quot;Price Is Right&quot; rules. - Oh, no. - 2:16. You're blocking me in. (Amanda laughs) - 2:45. - 2:45, and I said 4:30. - I also need everyone to take a look at the overalls that are happening on set. So these are mine. Do you know who created these? Geneva, that DIYer that we always send on Instagram back and forth. Graham's wearing his Smash + Tess onesie. And Dave is wearing... - These are actually from Graham. It's got a carabiner on one And this one was just like twist in, nice. - Yeah. - Okay, so we're going to get Before we do, let's take Let's head into the workshop To start, Graham picked up two by sixes of construction lumber. He's ripping each board into and removing a sliver of material from each side to clean each board up. Using a miter saw, he's to 74 inches long and the to make up the pieces and the wall panel, which are going to be different dimensions. He's sanding each piece on all four sides using 60 grit belt on the orbital sander. You'll notice he's using of the wood before he where he sanded and what (upbeat music) Now, it's time for dowels. He's drilling three using a drill press and To assemble the panels, onto the dowels using scrap He's securing the board to the For the coat hooks, Graham at a 15-degree angle using his miter saw. He's now pre-drilling a hole in one end using his drill press. He's fastening them to the wall panel using countersunk screws and wood glue. (upbeat music continues) He's covering up the holes by flush cutting some smaller For the shelf, Graham of wood together to make a wider panel and sanding everything and 80 to 220 grit sandpaper. He's rounding the corners and rounding the edges using a router. For the shelf brackets, of the dowel we had left over at a 45-degree angle using his miter saw. Because pine lumber doesn't and we wanted this DIY to look Graham is using a staining He's pre-sealing the wood with a shellac and then applying the stain This is gonna prevent the stain and will instead give us a nice rich, semi-transparent color tinting effect. He's using the color Early American. Graham is doing one coat of and after the stain dried for and sealing it with (upbeat music continues) So I'm really excited because and he left us the best snack basket ever, filled with foods that Like from M&amp;S, all my British girlies. Hello, M&amp;S tea cakes. Peppa Pig candies. - [Speaker] I'm Peppa Pig! - I'm Peppa Pig! (oinking) - M&amp;S Millionaires Mini Bites. Like you can't get these Okay, let's get this up. So we are gonna start by of this DIY on the ceiling. - [Amanda] Let's get this thing up! - We're using the beams and support the weight. (upbeat music) This is so cool. We're screwing this side into the wall, and we're going straight into Time check. 12:06 PM. The time is ticking. (upbeat music continues) Now, we're securing the wall (nail gun clicks) (upbeat music continues) It's 1:13, we still need And I think Graham and with a couple more screws, My mind is blown so I know - It's 1:13:56. 57, 58, 59. It's 1:14, so I was - Well, no. install the shelves. - [Amanda] And screw other things in. - Those are finishing touches though. (laughing) - So I'm gonna hang the shelf that's gonna go on these brackets. We have baskets, which you'll And this is gonna be for Also, can we just talk about how we fully created Gokhan an entryway. I feel like this is And now the first thing Your focus is on what (upbeat music continues) - [Graham] How solid does it feel? - Solid. It looks so good. Okay, the DIY's been installed. Amanda, what time is it? - 1:34, which means - I mean, only by &quot;Price Is Right&quot; rules. Graham was closer. - But honestly, we didn't until 10, 10:30. We banked all day. Like we budgeted eight hours, It looks so good. Like this is incredible. Look at this. - That's a fun experience to walk into. (upbeat music continues) - So it's time for me I'm gonna be adding some Gokhan asked me to create some privacy. He is on a ground floor apartment. There's a lot of people walking by. So we're gonna add some decorative film and then change these blinds I'm using Decorative Films. So I saw some of my favorite home creators using this pattern of window film. And when I took on &quot;Oh yeah, this needs to be in here.&quot; It's like fluted glass. The first step to this process They were pretty dirty so We are like a full-service team here. Cleaning, DIYing, making Okay, first step, we wanna We're also using a bit (lighthearted synth music) Okay, window film is on, about this solution but it doesn't block out any of the light, which is exactly what Gokhan asked for. So now it doesn't feel like people are staring directly into his apartment. It's like semi-private, So to complete this window, I am going to hang some I use them all the time, I love them. They have so many sizes to choose from. Let's get 'em up on the window. (lighthearted music continues) We are so delirious and Blinds look great. This wall divider is incredible. And, oh my god. - [Amanda] Can you, I think (laughing) - Okay. - Yeah, okay. (laughs) (signal droning) We are all so delirious and so hot. It's like so hot in this apartment. We're gonna wrap it up. Everything looks so good. I'll see you guys tomorrow. (upbeat music) (Alexandra laughs) (brush swiping) It's day two and we are pulling Feels very daunting 'cause But let's just take a moment We fully created an entryway for Gokhan. And the really cool more-defined bedroom nook. So before Gokhan was saying and you just saw his bed, which is a problem in most studios. But I am gonna turn this and it's gonna be so cozy. Let's do it. Okay, this is the bed Gokhan had. It's such a great piece, And I'm just gonna push Like I love the separation we've created, and now this space feels just so open and like the potential is endless. I'm making the bed with Article sheets. Fun fact, Article now has These are linen. I'm gonna give these a good steam shortly, but this bedding is really nice. Okay, let's add the duvet. Shove it in there. We're doing this the Graham method, but actually he would get into the duvet. - Yeah. (sheet rustles) - (laughs) That's one way, yeah. (lighthearted music) If you live in a studio, It's great to maximize Put like any off-season items, things you don't use all These are from Ikea. Really large bins, really inexpensive. (upbeat music) Remember that side table Let's place it beside the bed. And then I have this You guys have probably noticed in studios I love to put wall sconces beside a bed, obviously for bedside light, but then it also cascades into this area because in the studio you need (upbeat music) Let's plug it in. (upbeat music continues) We're bringing in Gokhan's It is so heavy. We don't know if he has like in here or like rocks or something, but we're sliding it This stunning piece Gokhan already had. He really had such a and I could not get rid Let's bring in the rug. Sorry, I'm out of breath 'cause Is there actually rocks in there? - And bricks! (upbeat music) Woo! So if you guys remember, and I felt like it was especially because all the pieces he loves that he's collected are So I wanted to lighten it up a bit with this jute rug with some white in it. I love this rug because it's interesting shapes and Gokhan also had like jute rugs in basically all his inspo photos, so I knew I had to bring in something. (upbeat music continues) Okay, you guys ready to see the sofa? Whoa! This is such a cool sofa to match all of Gokhan's cool furniture. This beautiful sofa is from Article, and I love how they have This is a three-seater, but this sofa also So if you are decorating a they have so many options, in just about every makeover. Their leather is known for aging really beautifully and well. So it's just gonna like but like in a good way. (upbeat music) This is so cool. Like what a cool coffee table. I love it. This has been such a cool space to design because Gokhan has these vintage pieces that just totally add to the whole vibe. Okay, next I'm gonna bring and we're going to have so that it creates more of a divide between the living room and the bedroom. These stunning chairs are from Mobilia. Gokhan said he wanted Oh, these are comfy. Lots of room to host. I went for these chairs because that was in a similar style he already has, and I think (Graham laughs) Graham. (upbeat music) This looks so good, so much seating. And now the focus like when you walk in. It's on this beautiful living room with all this cool furniture. (bell dings) This lamp is so stunning. What a statement. I always say this, but in small spaces, go big with your lighting. Gokhan also thrifted this light. So I will be asking him because the pieces he has Okay, I'm gonna unwrap this mirror from Mirror Home Decor Art on Etsy. If you are looking for a floor mirror, wall mirror, Mirror Home Decor Art is the place to be. We wanna bounce off all the natural light coming in here to make it brighter. (upbeat music) Wow, this looks great. Gokhan has the frame TV, which I feel like we've used I love this TV because it He already has this beautiful frame that works so well with Looking for some art to put on the TV. Okay, this one's perfect. Yes! It's just like cool. Don't you think? (upbeat music) Okay, so Gokhan said that he didn't need his dining set here anymore. He was like, &quot;It's really annoying. &quot;I have to move it whenever So I wanted to make this wall as possible, which is why This bench is from Article. He can move it into the He wants lots of seating, massive art print is from Minted. Wow. Okay, stunning. When Gokhan isn't doing his auditions, he can have just like this He doesn't have to move This beautiful large scale art print. There's nothing like a It just looks so good. And then you're probably wondering, &quot;But how is he gonna film his auditions?&quot; Standby. This is Gokhan's original backdrop. So by putting it on this he can now roll this down He can sit here and film. He can stand and film. I feel like now this corner is for what he uses this space Also, this is an Ikea blind. For any actors out there who are looking for like a background Next, I'm going to style the entryway. Let's go. Shoe storage, we needed I found this bench, which is perfect. Not only is it so comfy for look how much storage there is in here. Any kind of furniture piece is so great for a studio apartment. Like, look how comfy this is. Isn't this great? He can put all his shoes. (lighthearted synth music) Speaking of storage, I'm gonna add baskets up on these top shelves for that he's going to grab when Let's do it. I'll be right back. I'm just going to get the baskets. (signal droning) These bins are nice and roomy. I'm just gonna put them up here. (lighthearted synth music) So this is a Ruggable runner, which means that Gokhan can Love these for entryways. So this is the rug pad that (lighthearted music continues) And then this is the (lighthearted music continues) Okay, I'm gonna hang a couple art prints. I love the pop of blue and the rest tying into This art print is from Minted. Oh, hey, Amanda. - [Amanda] I'm in a reflection over here? - Wave. (laughs) Okay, I'll be back tomorrow. I'm going to add the and reveal to Gokhan. (lighthearted music continues) Bye. It is time for the finishing touches. First, I'm styling the bed and a throw blanket. (upbeat music) I'm adding a basket in the a few books, and of course a candle. I'm styling the media console Now, I'm moving on to I'm placing some books and a candle, and I'm adding a few of Gokhan's plants. I'm draping a blanket placing down some decorative pillows. Placing a faux tree. He is a flight attendant, so he can't always care for his plants. Styling the coffee table with some magazines Gokhan already had. And a vase with these beautiful branches. I'm adding a basket beside the bench for any storage Gokhan may need. And on the other side, A dish for his keys. And this cute lamp that It is time to bring (air whooshing) Okay, are you excited? Are you ready? Yes! - Okay, before you open what your studio apartment - [Gokhan] So it was was against the walls. - [Gokhan] Didn't have like - Yeah. there was some cute things, but it didn't feel like a cohesive space. It felt like, okay, here's - [Alexandra] Are you ready? Three. Two. One. - Whoa. Wait, what? (upbeat music) Wait, what? Hold on, I have to look away. Wait, what? Oh my God, woo! (upbeat music continues) Oh my God, this is amazing! (upbeat music continues) - How did you, this is giving like hotel, in like a good way though. I mean, that in a positive (upbeat music continues) The colors, oh, this is so nice. (upbeat music continues) Oh, and the blue too, I love that blue. (Alexandra laughs) This is cool! I don't even wanna walk I just want it to be like, Oh my god, it's so nice. (upbeat music continues) Oh, I love this couch. (upbeat music continues) It doesn't feel like constrained Oh my God. (upbeat music continues) Thank you so much. My pleasure. - Aw, cool! - I'm so happy you're happy. - Feels like a cool person (bell dings) Which obviously not. (both laughing) - Thank you, please. (upbeat music continues) Next up on AGTV, we've living room coming at you. If you love all things Thank you all so much for watching, and as always, I'll see you next time. Bye. (signal beeps) (Alexandra laughs) - [Carla] You did a great job. (laughs) - Okay, I'm gonna (fire alarm beeps) - [Graham] That's all you need. - [Amanda] It works. (fire alarm beeps) - What do I do now? Do I just live here?