Don't be afraid, Shfa, don't be afraid Hello, how are you? Look here, there are That hurts her. Poor baby Shfa Today is the day for? you poor Today Today we will go to the hospital She brought a bag with her I will show you what's inside it Show us Come on I have a dress in here Clothes And toothpaste and brush and this Cream and comb and wipes And the phone charger That's because if she she has her stuff to use there, right? That's right, and I have this. If I'd like -yes ok Dear Shfa, get your stuff inside I'm scared and nervous about the surgery My beloved Shfa do not be scared. Okay? Hopefully it will be easy I pray and everything is going to be good, okay? Now we're going to And don't be afraid, sweetheart, okay? Be brave and heroic, come on That's it, we've arrived at Do not be afraid, trust We arrived at the hospital now. Look at her foot Now I'm going to do a PCR test Because before the surgery, they have to The PCR hurt you? No Good, let's go. Look, they put this piece in order to inject medicine Does it hurt, Shfa? Dear Shfa, get well soon. Praying Look at this. They are injecting Look, I feel like the area Has it become cold? Oh, my dear! I don't know Are you afraid? Nervous? They will clean the Shfa, well done sweetheart. It's all May God delight you, Oh They moved her to a private and the morning she Today you will sleep in the hospital, sweetheart. Of course you'll eat, and then you'll Look at the room and the bed. This is my bed This bed I will sleep in. Look, She makes the bed for me. Thank you. -Peace be upon you my love shfa come on, you need to sleep I brought you your phone Shfa, have dinner because Bism Allah. My love. I still have 10 minutes Right, you will fast for the surgery delicious? Now the fasting has started It's done. You can't eat anything, right? I'm talking to my sisters Hey Arwaa! Hi, hope you will get well soon And finish the surgery well Arwaa, how is the house without us? It's not good bye bye Now you will sleep, Shfa and tomorrow morning will do the -Good night Shfa -Good morning, Shfa How are you doing today? So so How is sleeping in the Not really. So so Come on. Today is the Are you nervous? Don't Come on, put on the Surgery gown. Okay? Okay Good girl. We can't have I wore the gown I wore the gown. How does it feel? -I don't know! Ready for surgery Well done, Shfa. You listened I'm waiting for the doctor to call Great, Shfa she is waiting to She reads Quran. May God make her surgery I felt better Than God, you are great Oh my God This is the first time in What do you feel? I'm nervous and terrified Don't be, okay? Look, Shfa is going to the operating room Look at her, she's praying. May O Lord. Look, that's it, we're heading Honey, we are heading are you coming with me? She wants me to go in with May God protect you. My Don't be afraid, don't do not be afraid. Okay? Everything will be fine, Bye, Shfa. She is going Shfa entered the operating and comes back better than before Thank God anyway. Now I read the Qur'an and O Lord, Pray for her she will be good after the Look at Shfa, she has just left Thank God Shfa woke up. Oh God, thank you Shfa, my love, how was the surgery? Do you know who I am? What's You can't speak well. Oh, my love Now Shfa has woken up from anesthesia Were you happy when Look at Shfa, she slept because she is come on, let her sleep for an entire hour Look at the heartbeats, thank God, they -Abdullah! Get well soon, Shfa How are you? oh my love, oh Shfa The flowers are for you Oh, darling. Oh, how What will you give to Shfa as a gift? I'll take her to any Aww, she loves the train of death Once your foot heals, we will Get well soon,dear May God save you. I You know the house is awful without you Everyone was afraid for Shfa Poor Shfa The problem was that Shfa They said that the surgery takes one hour but in fact it took 3 hours. And I was Come on, thank God When she came out, I What did you feel during the surgery? I didn't feel anything Didn't you see a dream or anything? you didn't dream of anything? And you haven't seen feet, or -No Do you want to see your foot? Yes They wrapped it all. You It is swallowed It is swallowed? Thank God you are safe, my dear She brought you chocolate. What Oh, my love. May God save you Arwaa. Look, she brought flowers for Shfa Shfa, my darling. Thank God for your safety Take the flowers A magnificent bouquet Let me look at it. Wow, it is so beautiful What was the surgery like? I didn't feel anything And when did you get anesthetized? I just slept. I didn't feel a thing Beautiful roses She brought pink roses for you. It They brought delightful But my gift is even better. I will give you yaaah You my life, may God delight you, darling Children who need to do a surgery, hopefully and even the adults She drank some water; The chocolate that my mother Look at the dinner they Come on, baby. May I help you? Look, they brought her dinner and yogurt. Do you like the food? I am so hungry; I Bon appetit. This is the first even though we are in the evening.