Here we are in the Faroes, a remote community up We have been living on We have no production of chemicals, but we are exposed to a lot of chemicals. They came to us without asking us. We have seen negative effects We want to see their development because we always have if these substances can have any impact on the endocrine system. This is the price to pay for what the international without thinking about the consequences of just releasing new substances. What we have seen here in the Faroes is that this is part of a absolutely global contamination that may have started in the 1960s, without us being aware of it. The PFAS is everywhere. PFAS have contaminated our food supply, and PFAS can also accumulate The chemists who have sampled rainwater on the Antarctica and in the Himalayas, what do they find in the rainwater? PFAS. It's all over. They don't just stay in the environment, in our water, in our soil, but they get into living things, and they stay in us. It's like a ticking time bomb in the body, as this stuff is building up and coating all of our organs and staying there year after year. We have analyzed thousands and thousands of human blood samples. We never met one that We have all paid a high price due to large corporations carelessly dumping known toxic chemicals. Through no fault of my own, I was exposed to these toxic chemicals, and as a result, I will We've all been used as guinea pigs for the last 70 to 80 years. We weren't told we were being exposed, even though the companies if we put them into these products, they will get into people. They will get into people's blood. But they did it anyway. It's hard to even talk to and tell them, look, there's a chemical that's in you that's not These chemicals are It just sounds crazy. Tell people that these are that we've created a chemical that we don't know how to destroy, it sounds even stranger. So PFAS are synthetic, man-made chemicals. PFAS stands for per- and It's quite a mouthful. It's an acronym that stands for a family of thousands The most recent estimate from the EPA says that there are over 14,000 that they recognize to be PFAS. They share the same chemical property of having many carbon-fluorine bonds. These carbon-fluorine bonds are some of the strongest bonds So for this reason, PFAS have also been called because those carbon-fluorine bonds just really don't break down. But the part where this is looking at their origins, because these chemicals came which was a secret project to build the atomic bomb in World War II. So after the war, companies began experimenting One company had a scientist who accidentally splashed some They discovered the and water-proof properties. That company was 3M. Because of their unique they're added to products greaseproof, stainproof, You know who's going to win this contest. Teflon is so much easier to clean than stainless steel or uncoated aluminum. These chemicals went into some of these company's most famous products, like 3M's Scotchgard and DuPont's Teflon. These chemicals were really at as the era of better and they sort of epitomized this attitude of consumers and companies that everything we do could ... on virtually any fabric! Use Scotchgard fabric protector and let your cup runneth over. And consumers are still really enjoying the fruits of this era. When you look around you, there are so many things that like pizza boxes that are grease-resistant or microwave popcorn bags. They're in industrial applications like plastics, semiconductors. They may even be used in solar They're in a lot of products that it's not even like toilet paper or dental floss. But as time has gone on and more scientific research we've realized that they We're east of Minneapolis in Minnesota, near 3M's global headquarters. So back in 2018, I started looking at 3M's I wrote a story at that time. A lot has changed since then and I'm back to see what's happened. In 3M's hometown in and in these surrounding areas the company had been since the 1960s. And clearly these chemicals they were seeping underground, getting into aquifers, getting into soil, and that's really the beginning that was later documented in Cottage Grove. The pollution has caused concern among the people who live in the area. There are troubling statistics which is thought to be more connected to environmental contaminants. Hi. Hi, how's it going? How are those burgers? Great! I'm a wonderful Do you have a plate to put them on? That probably would've been something I should have grabbed as well. Oh my gosh, mother. I have the other. Back in 2018 I interviewed including Amy and her daughter Lexi. I was so happy to get and find out that Lexi So how many years did that take and- Being like, done with treatment and stuff to be fully like, considered cancer-free, it took five years after So when did you first start suspecting that it could be an environmental issue? I drank city water growing And then when I was pregnant with Lexi, her dad and I moved into and lived there until she and all of her baby bottles We didn't buy the filtered water then. I don't think it was like, Like, to me, I don't as having bottles of water. It was more of a luxury. People didn't wanna spend money on that. I mean, do you ever eating fish from the lake or anything else that might've put her at higher risk? Yeah, so- since like, the day I Like, since the day I could chew my grandpa has been having me eat fish. From the lakes around here? Yeah. he's a professional fishing guide. Oh wow. and he loves to go fishing and come home and make big fish fries. And yeah, they live right over by here. It's about a six-minute drive from here. So all the lakes that he would go to would be Lake Demontreville, Lake Jane, all the ones in Lake Elmo. My dad's a lot more particular now if he's gonna actually keep them. Not everyone was as fortunate as Lexi. Death records show a child who died in Oakdale from 2003 to 2015 was 171% more likely to have had cancer compared to those who lived outside the contaminated area. So in that area, one of the And there was a math teacher there who told me the numbers There were so many students who so many teachers who had And one of the most outspoken students about this was Amara Strande. I'm 20 years old, and at the age of 15, I was diagnosed with stage four fibrolamellar I've had over 20 surgeries, including two liver resections There are no more treatments to try, no roadmap, and no plan. So is this her bedroom- Bedroom. No, this is her bedroom. this was her bedroom. The reason why there's no bed in here is because it was a hospital bed, and we had to give that back to- The hospice. It's from hospice. Yeah. Amara was diagnosed with cancer at age 15 and she died just two days before her 21st birthday in April of 2023. What she's most proud of is- Her music studio. Wow, how many different instruments does she have in here? I see a violin. There's a ukulele, her mandolin. There might be a harmonica or a kazoo somewhere in there. Her first love was music. She had written songs. Her dream of a career was to write music, compose music for either computer games or maybe even film scores. And she could keep composing She was composing up until just a few days before she died. Yeah. But she couldn't sing anymore. They removed this large mass that had grown into the of the fibrolamellar Fibrolamellar hepatocellular that is found in one It's very rare. Did any doctors along there might be an environmental or suggest any lifestyle changes? That was not their concern. Their concern was to deal with the cancer as they understood it. It wasn't until much later that Amara started inquiring about, how possibly could this happen to her? And did she first start because she was a student at Tartan and there have been so Absolutely. I mean, she was aware of the It was something that the and even joked about, you know, as much as you can joke about, you know, &quot;Don't drink the water here.&quot; &quot;Don't drink the cancer water.&quot; Yeah. As they talked about it. She knew kids whose parents had cancer, and then she knew kids She wanted to know, why doesn't anyone know about this? Why aren't people asking questions? Even though Amara and that these cancers are it's something that's very hard to prove. It takes years of research and in particular when you But fears about the water intensified by what would come out in the 2010s. Minnesota sued 3M for damaging with its dumping of PFAS, and in doing so, a mass of the company's internal What they revealed has been described as a scientific cover up. Seeing the documents that we think we're finding your chemicals, these perfluorinated materials, in the blood of the general US population. And to see what was going on internally, you know, 3M started and found, yes, this chemical who were exposed to this chemical. They were seeing studies on animals with disturbing effects. It shows that in 1997, 3M gave DuPont a material with a label that said: &quot;Cancer: Warning: contains a chemical But 3M removed that label the same year and for decades sold PFAS without warning the public of its dangers. You see the companies internally debating. Do we say anything? Do we tell the government? And unfortunately what Some of 3M's documents even showed that there had been a inside the company named Richard Purdy who had said the company about the risks of these He referred to 3M's PFOS, or P-F-O-S, as the most insidious Some of the most notorious So these are two PFAS molecules that have a carbon backbone These are the chemicals that so far have raised These are the ones that in the environment. These are also the ones that show up most frequently They have half lives in blood of years, which means that it would for the levels in your blood to go down to an unmeasurable level. The 3M company had actually had one of its own scientists sit down and calculate what would be a safe level in human blood, and that scientist had calculated, and they even used the word &quot;safe&quot; on the headline of the document, that the safe level for this chemical in human blood would be no more than 1.05 parts per billion. At the time, in the late 1990s, the average level of in the general US population's blood was 30 times higher than that. In 2018 3M settled, but there was no admission that that there had been a scientific cover up, or what the real risk 3M will pay 850 million dollars to settle claims it contaminated water in Minnesota for decades. It's hard to talk about like, everyone loves 3M, right? There's not a person I who isn't a stellar individual. I feel torn inside myself, but I am really angry at whoever, at whatever level did what they did, especially after they knew and they kept doing it. So no one even knew what until this lawyer from Ohio came along. His name is Rob Bilott, and he took on the case of a farmer who had these cows downstream of a DuPont factory that were dying. It's unbelievable. That calf has died miserable. And so Rob Bilott's story is now told in the film &quot;Dark Waters,&quot; where he's played by Mark Ruffalo. DuPont is knowingly poisoning for the last 40 years. That's not what I was trained to do. That wasn't the kind of at the time. I was actually working and big corporate clients, helping them navigate all the federal, state, international governing things going It was actually through that case that we took on back in 1998 that we first found out that these manmade forever chemicals, even existed. What we're seeing is all these potential human health impacts, but we're seeing them happening at lower and lower dose We recently had the Federal Environmental and essentially say, if you can detect this, The safety advisories keep From 70 parts per trillion for both PFOA and PFOS in drinking water in 2016, the EPA lowered it to just four parts per trillion each. That's less than a single drop in an Olympic-size swimming pool. Each time those levels are lowered, it means that more people live in an area where contaminated water A recent study found that as many as 200 million with more than the That's around two thirds of Americans. States are taking action, and one of those states is Minnesota. They're not taking any that are in drinking water. And to do that, they're trying out new PFAS is out in the environment, and it will spread as far It's left the barn, it's out of the gate. This waterway is carrying the PFAS right where the air meets the water, and these little bubbles are sort of signs that there might be PFAS in that water. PFAS has a hydrophobic and a hydrophilic nature to it. So if you think about it the head of the It wants to be in the water. And the tail of it wants it's hydrophobic, so And so it actually has that property that behaves the same way out or whether you're putting it in the water or on a pan, it's going So Mother Nature is saying, here's your PFAS, it's in the foam. And so we wanna take advantage of that and do the most removal we can. It's called the SAFF. It's surface activated foam fractionation. We fill those full of contaminated water, and then we are able to by foaming it, adding air into the system. And then we pull the PFAS and that's where we get a small volume of very high-concentrated Thus far, the test has shown us that we can remove roughly It could run at least at 60,000 gallons of and this is just one small system. So this is effectively the test to see whether we can scale and can we apply this to reduce the PFAS in the It's not just 3M or DuPont who are responsible for PFAS pollution. There's about a dozen companies that have produced PFAS around the world. Highly concentrated levels Japan, and Australia. It's become a multi-billion Like the US, a lot of where the chemicals are manufactured, or sites where other companies use them. One of the most widespread and airports, where 3M's PFOS were sprayed We're just going right through here. So you're here to have your blood drawn? Yes. so come on with me here. I've come to Mount Sinai to have my blood taken and We'll give you a little All used in different products and made all over the world. So we know these chemicals are everywhere, and they're in everyone, and the question is obviously, you know, what level of them is unsafe? It's something that science Personally, I've wondered if I could avoid these chemicals as well. PFAS, like a lot of other which means it sort of and becomes more concentrated in predators and apex predators. And one of the places where a lot of the cutting is, surprisingly, the Faroe Islands. This small archipelago in the North Atlantic has a population of just over 50,000 people. There is no manufacturing There's this quirk of local culture that people have eaten And whale meat can have very of chemicals in it. Pilot whales is a kind because over centuries we and around thousand per year. They were seen as really a I went out to the public saying that pregnant women, especially, or women who intended to become pregnant, they should really be careful Dr. Pal Weihe and his team into the local population, from whale meat and other seafood. The scientists have studied Okay. a new cohort of hundreds of children under one year old are Their physical and mental all the way into adult life. Seems that she's hearing They're tested for things such as balance, reaction time, body composition, lung and heart function. Even the antibodies in their blood. As the Faroese reduced their consumption of pilot whale, the scientists saw the levels of mercury in their blood lower over time. But unlike mercury, PFAS chemicals are in everything. In the Faroe Islands people and waterproof jackets, Even in people who had very the scientists started spotting things that really concerned them. What we saw surprised us very much. And we saw that the negative effect on the antibody formation was much higher in children exposed to PFAS than to PCP and other substances. People in the Faroe Islands and they were exposed to these compounds at something we thought was And still we found that every time that a child had a doubled concentration of PFAS in the blood, the child would lose half of the antibody. Essentially, the vaccines did not work. It means that there is in your immune system. It's not functioning optimally. We can see that those kids who have higher exposures And there's a tendency of, at young ages to develop what we call pre-diabetes. Okay, I just do the last test. So as these studies evolve and we learn more about the and health problems, how how much is too much? The World Health Organization experts on cancer believe that if you don't have an optimally functioning immune system, you may be more vulnerable to cancer. So we can see the various diseases that are sort of triggered, I would call this as a It affects multiple targets. And it may be that different And it may be that different of their favorite toxicity. We are trying to decipher that. One of the most disturbing things that persists as a is that there's no known way There's only one way that's known of, and unfortunately that's They're offloading their both at the time of birth And this just has huge implications for not just our generation, but the generations to come, that we're passing these Elsa Helmsdael is both a a person who has been through the cohorts, and a mother who's had to deal with PFAS on a very personal level. I thought a lot about it, and I decided to only even though the recommendation is that you breastfeed for a year. Wow. Did it feel strange to think about being sort of pre-polluted or sharing your pollution with your child? And also, because I and you actually give a lot of the contaminants, in this case, the PFAS, to children, so their levels go really high and your levels drop as a I didn't think about it that but I do think about a lot We are starting to understand that early life exposures of our chromosomes. And so the question is, is it something that can if we pollute or expose the if we pollute or expose the And this has been shown in rodent studies that it can happen. The pesticide is completely gone, but the changed DNA chemistry is not. PFAS aren't just a problem for humans. The chemicals have been from polar bears in the In the Faroe Islands, they're also studying Ornithologist Sjurdur Hammer both on seabirds and to We're fairly confident that the PFAS that we're finding in comes from their diet. There's important research on how pollutants have a negative impact on top predators in particular, where you see high concentrations, and that has a knock-on effect on their, it could be parasite load, but it could also be their likelihood to catch infections or like avian influenza. So if we were to lose an apex predator like the Great Skua, what are Ecologically, top predators in stabilizing the ecosystem. They have a kind of controlling, top-down effect on the ecosystem. Are there other consequences ecologically to these birds in particular having PFAS or other chemicals? We very often look for sub-lethal effects. They may have more subtle effects on their reproduction, for example. And also in relation to PFAS, there are indications that to their eggs. So there's what we call Just as with humans. Yes. We have documented some of and we send the message back to you. Please learn the lesson. It can be irresponsible just to invent some new substances and produce them and send As more has been learned about the health hazards regulation of PFAS has really picked up. It's forcing a reckoning They're seeing settlements from lawsuits that are amounting to tens While claims that PFAS have been litigated elsewhere, there's never been a Skeptics say the state's drinking water contains other contaminants, but many people living in areas with high levels of PFAS Even since the 2018 settlement, Minnesota is still working The PFAS legislation that we have, this year we named it the &quot;Amara Law.&quot; It will ban non-essential use. It will require labeling of any product that has PFAS in it. These manufacturers were to be considered essential. So that's how we found out that had PFAS in them, because they wanted to We didn't know how extensive in different products. We kept learning more and more every day of that contained these chemicals. And at the same time, It's not listed on ingredients, it's not listed on what is used to make this particular shampoo or this particular dental floss. We need stricter regulations and more research to be done on the long-term effects of exposure. We also need more education for the public about the dangers of these chemicals, so that people can make informed choices about the products they use. Her voice in the legislature was a voice for the community. They saw her as she was getting weaker. I saw her as getting clearer, in many ways, stronger than she'd ever been. She was a champion for us this year, bringing awareness to this issue. Unfortunately, you know, she passed away, I think it was three days before we had the bill on All Amara was asking for in testifying at the who are using these chemicals, do the right thing and take Her life doesn't seem over to me because she puts so much in motion, and those things are still in motion. And so there's no over for me yet. So there are reasons to be optimistic about our exposure to PFAS. Back in around 2006, the EPA put pressure on And so these long-chain PFAS, like PFOA and PFOS, which we know so much have been phased out mostly since then. There has been a catch, however. Unfortunately, these chemical with PFAS, they replaced them. One of the most studied and the most known is a chemical that was made by DuPont and its spinoff Chemours, for Teflon. Instead of making C8, something we now call GenX. They renamed it. Now GenX is being found in And what did we see? GenX caused the exact same three tumors in rats that PFOA, the C8, did. Exactly the same. Liver, testicular, pancreatic. Red flags went up within the wait a minute, we need to to the rest of these PFAS chemicals, these replacements. Even though they may be they've got a lot of the same toxicity and share a lot of the Maybe we ought to be as a class. And that's what we've seen now emerge, is the only way we can get around this one-at-a-time regulation within a group. There could be thousands of additional PFAS chemicals now out there in our environment, Rob Bilott is pursuing another class action lawsuit against a number of producers of PFAS. It could potentially involve of the United States. We have more than enough evidence, it's time to move forward and act to protect the American public. Thank you. Just think about this. If there really are 12,000 or more PFAS, how long would it take us to get all of these studies done that these manufacturers are We'd all be gone by the time that happens. If the companies are gonna say they should have to pay How do we short circuit this? So I brought a new case in 2018 in federal court in Ohio, and the companies saying this was too big. Nobody had ever had a involving millions and millions of people. And our argument was nobody the entire United States and has put chemicals in the country. This case is only this big because the harm is this big. So I always knew that I Like everyone, I've been exposed to them. I was hopeful that they would be slightly given I've known for years and I live in an area that does not have high I would say that, overall, you are above the mean for someone of, for a woman of your age. So you have higher than Any particular PFAS? The best assays really or so of these chemicals. So it's always a bit of But we do know that some of them are more commonly And so the two most So you're actually a little bit on the high side for the PFAS and just below the 50th These risks are relatively low, I don't think you should rush but the next time you see your physician for your annual checkup, you may ask for a liver function test, you may ask for a thyroid function test. I did Scotchgard a lot That could actually be it. That one has a particularly so that could actually have done it. We are a chemical society, and, you know, we are Now, they're not highly you know, if you're exposed, you're definitely going to but they increase the risk and all the other things in your life that may increase the including your genetic susceptibility. Knowing that my PFAS levels that we can't avoid these chemicals, even if we try to make very It raises an issue that I've talked about with people in the human rights space who say our right to be born without pollution should Thankfully, there are a and private companies Some have even had success in breaking down PFAS' forever bonds. But realistically, these and will cost a lot of money. And it's not like we can just They're in some really important products, like stents and medical The next challenge is which uses are essential and Consumers also have to make a choice about whether they're willing to live without some of the convenience. You know, are we willing and wear leather shoes that Are we willing to have fabric on our couches that get stained? I think that a PFAS-free future is a very hard goal to think about. I don't know that that's ever achievable. Unfortunately, people can't about PFAS because of that surrounded them for decades. Scientists often say, if they'd seen some of these companies' internal the world would be much further When we ask people, did you know that you People don't know. They ask, what is PFAS? That is, we have not informed people that we are essentially exposing them to these toxic substances. We didn't ask for their permission. This could have been avoided. This could have been avoided Millions of people could that we're dealing with now. I'm saying as a doctor, I think we are doing something in society that is affecting the ethics because we are allowing chemical exposure to reach the population in general, and that is affecting our health and worse, the next generation's health. In my community, I have seen neighbors and friends who have also been affected by these toxic chemicals. This is not just an individual problem, it's a community problem, and it's time for action to be taken.