Hello everybody and welcome to Bull I posted a video review of Opera GX--the gaming Corporation. It appears that I had one of the mine was one of the first critical reviews. Well up quite a few views (as well as dislikes), and I and answer this question: What's changed is it browser? And in the interest of full disclosure, and all of the opinions you are about to hear - but I stand with the opinions and critiques I had comparisons to other web browsers and--yes--this - introduced in 2019 by Opera Software--the largely a host of other browsers over the years. GX is Looking at GX's website reveals... that not much peddling this browser as gamer oriented, and winning design. But even more interesting an entire section on their webpage dedicated to claims that "WITH OPERA'S SECURE BROWSER, YOUR Tracking protection, and built in ad-blocker Back to the main page, and Opera boasts GX's there are many other features built into the Interestingly enough, the download page is months ago. Indeed, when I was installing I had this popup appear in Chrome... apart it's a good sign how much Opera is trying to Anyways, we are now prompted with the installer, the EULA to see what we're really signing up but I did find some interesting items related Opera GX contains a browser assist built in that notifications and reports this data back to Opera. Opera also alarmingly discloses that they in the newsfeed and your general geolocation... disclose even certain mouse clicks and website data collection isn't unique to Opera, and some they value privacy it's certainly ironic. You the parent company of Opera is Kunlun Tech, a the data they collect to the Chinese government. Qubick wherein he outlines exactly what's going on As far as the actual browsers is concerned, from my first video to assess GX as it Resource usage is being dropped because I on that metric. Because of its bloat regardless of RAM and CPU usage, uses to see that in action you can view my The overall design hasn't changed much, the features, the GX corner gimmick, and many remains the same. Web browsers should focus more and they should prioritize efficiency--GX does is clunky and feels outdated... and while what use are these customization options if the Opera GX still calls the homepage the speed dial, more than distracting overlays. Again, just look search bar... yeahhhh. Also now you can add game pointless mini games... but currently there are Moving onto GX corner, which is an always various gaming info and come on... I mean do Asus' comes out on June the 30th ? I mean, The sidebar has been given most notably AI integration... but I mean why does there need to be an always also where GX control is located and this which you might need for this browser because while idling with just the homepage open it's how that's possible and I think it demonstrates The worst offense of GX though is the design sense and is barren on some things but overly the only options GX gives you for privacy and Moving onto features though and we have to least favorite), browser sounds. Yes, time you click a button or change a toggle but this also extends to typing on the keyboard. hear synthetic keyboard clicks like you're on a this with digital keyboards for feedback, but browser. Oh and this extends to mouse movements move the cursor over buttons??! This can be turned Other features in GX aren't fleshed out great VPN as you might have guessed. As Linus Tech that tanks your networking performance. The free was a great job at blocking ads, but in others something like add block plus on chrome. One of was the mini player, which allows you to pop browser UI, is still a feature that works well tool. But many of the features in opera GX what's wrong with a bookmarks bar? Screenshot tool? Gaming section thing, don't stand alone After a few days of using opera GX again the why. Some might be won over by its flashy UI, some might be won over--or conned--by popup marketing but avoid Opera GX. It's a dubious company and it's a - subscribe, and thank you all for watching.