male announcer: In Touch, of Dr. Charles Stanley. Reaching the world Next on &quot;In Touch,&quot; Dr. Charles Stanley: When you do it's wrong, how do you feel? Well, you feel guilty. But let me ask you this, have when you didn't Oftentimes we do. Guilt is something all of us different times and some people some people don't. If you don't know how to very devastating to your life. And many people go through their don't know how to In one meeting there were They took this survey and they &quot;What do you experience And the answers came back like God is going to punish me for God is going to judge me, I'm accident, my baby's things are just The other group of depression, a sense low self-esteem, shame. The other group of rejection and isolation. Now all of those feelings And to think that people go some degree or the other So, I want you to to one verse of Scripture. In Ephesians chapter 1 you'll recall that he has Christ is, how He says in verse 7 that in redemption, the forgiveness according to the which He lavished upon us. And I want us just to think half there. &quot;The riches of His grace, which the forgiveness of our sin. The riches of His not our behavior, not our of His grace. Now one of the best ways and in overcoming any difficulty is And so, I want us a few moments this morning--in struggling with guilt, I want this guilt. That is, where did it come from. You say, &quot;Well, anybody It came from sin.&quot; Well, if all guilt found its simple to deal with it. But that's not true. All feelings of guilt do Feelings of guilt come from and different things. And so, I want to according to this listen, we have we have forgiveness for the all, he says, the Now, if it is the result of His to deal with in this whole sometimes one of the reasons we with sin. It has to do with And it is amazing how we can of God and think that something ourselves all of our life. So, I want to begin with I was saved when I was about was saved God was I do remember that. He was up in heaven. And those early years of my life anyway because not having a that I could come to and go to like that somebody really loved somehow, very distant. I just--I would pray to Him. I believed in Him. But somehow, He was way and I was down here. And most of my time was spent on listened, being I was getting through. And so, a year or so went by One day I was at home by myself. We lived in a I was taking a bath. And it was a very And when I I stood up to get out of And so, hanging maybe about like this, from black cords and one of those that you screw You had to reach up and hold it to cut the light off. Well, I'm standing in I reach up to grab which would have been to turn it off and Well, normally you and go answer the phone. But rather--I can Rather I just got out of the tub Rang about four picked it up nobody was there. It didn't click. Nothing happened. Well, I didn't think anything the bathroom. And just there was the door down and part of the tub. And it's like I looked All of a sudden, for the I knew that God that God was down here. And, all of a sudden, for God became very, very at that moment, He was Because nobody God is the One Now, He may have rung Doesn't make any difference. He got it rung to save my life. Well, I would like to able to whole issue between God and me but that's not true. Because years went by and I distance from Him, though at was not a distant God, that He our life. And so, rather than being He was involved. But in spite of that I just that real you see, you get your And so, my image was that He And second image I had of a harsh and hard and difficult complimentary about And so, my whole view It isn't something I asked for. I didn't ask to grow up in I didn't ask for my father to I didn't ask for any of that. That was just something that was granted to me. That's just something I had So, when I went to church it was the wrath of God. And so, I grew up with all of to me. So, this God that I first first of all, He was remote. He was distant. Secondly, He was taking And His favorite phrase And so, if you can fourteen, fifteen, sixteen I'm here to tell And I tried and I wanted do what God said do but I was to this standard that first of quite understand. Nobody ever said, &quot;You're It was all the things I--not-- And so, I'm simply somebody gave me the I didn't ask for it. I didn't find it in the Bible. They just gave it to me. When somebody gives you a what it does, it And so, my whole grid system that He was hard to please, life trying to please Him. If you pleased Him good enough top all of that off with be lost and go to I'm here to tell you, God I think about all the people who churches for years and And you know what They're living with If you ask them, &quot;What did you was absolutely wrong?&quot; Most of them probably couldn't that was wrong. &quot;Well, why do you feel guilty?&quot; I can tell you why, because a wrong view of God. And that's why I am in my own heart, that not only but He keeps on teaching understanding and And as He has over these years, from that some kind of ethereal guilt has no foundation whatsoever. A second thing that I would oftentimes, people struggle with life is that the message of They've never been Now the grace of God is God-- we say His It's His graciousness and regard to our worth or in spite of what That's the grace of God. So, if you'll think that the grace of God and And so, oftentimes the problem understand grace. Now they sing it. You imagine how sweet the sound, that I once was lost but blind but now I see.&quot; And all the wonderful verses, to that song than is And so, it's wonderful song. And so we sing it. We say it's amazing grace. The amazing thing about it is spite of what we are and the But in our thinking, oftentimes deserve it. And sometimes I'll be counseling them and they'll say, I know I don't deserve it.&quot; Listen, deserving has nothing Grace has nothing to do It has nothing to do with what It has to do with who God is. And that's what this He says the forgiveness of our It came through the Now listen. There are a lot of men who And if you ask them, &quot;Are you &quot;I am.&quot; Yet here's what they'll say, &quot;If you've got to do. You've got to Which says, &quot;You must do God's favor.&quot; And so, oftentimes, men preach listening--they as a means of salvation. He says--Paul said it this way, mouth the Lord Jesus Christ and hath raised Him from the Repentance is what I do as a me at the cross. When I receive the Lord Jesus what do I want to do? I want to deal with those issues with and I want to walk away that and walk away from the heart not to get And so, oftentimes, the And so therefore a if there's any sin in my God is displeased.&quot; Why does He call us children? Because He knows we're going to and we're going Salvation is what God And repentance in the life of because we don't want anything there because of what our heart, and that is the So, the message of grace is of many people. I remember when I was first-- I went to this church-- Every Sunday the pastor how to be saved, how to be saved, how to saved. After about a month of said to Annie, I I think I'm about as And I don't think I can And so we left and went Now people ask me sometimes, &quot;Why don't you preach Well, if you'll listen real the message. It is always a But suppose I got up &quot;You need to give You need to be saved, you need to be saved, Do you know why sometimes Because pastors--and I'm just being honest. Pastors want to get a lot of good on the record to And so, they just preach and preach People sit in the pew and starve not discipled because they are salvation God has given them. And so what happens? They live with a sense of guilt. And somehow the message of grace many churches. And so people grow up feeling they did that. And so, instead of understanding kindness and graciousness to us in spite of what we do--does His eye at sin? No, He does not. But our guilt was placed on all, two thousand years ago and declared not guilty. Now, a third reason I think because they don't They don't know Well, what do you do with it? You simply confess it to Him. &quot;Father, I know that I Now listen. Not confess, pity party, beat up on the worse you feel I've got to beat up on myself. You know what the problem is? It's real hard for you and me to admit, &quot;Lord Jesus, you My pity party won't do any good. I can confess--any time is a waste of time. Anytime I talk about is a waste of time. You took it all at Calvary--you absolutely in full and my to get my heart back in right this estranged feeling I have bring us back That's what confession, life of the believer. And so how does a They get saved by placing their Calvary and receiving Him And, repentance is something Christ as our Savior. Now, as a believer, sure we get walk away, we want to repent, don't please Him because of what And so, when I think about devil, they don't know He says, &quot;If we confess our forgive us.&quot; To release us from the feelings these feelings of Listen, once you are saved by separate you from God. But if you believe it can, can, you're going like you're separated from Him you're just going to be They don't know And so, they just believe that, &quot;You mean to tell forgive me? If I tell God about my Absolutely. &quot;I don't deserve it.&quot; &quot;How could He do it?&quot; And see, He doesn't and shrouded over with guilt. There is no joy in that. Well, a fourth reason is people They just can't. Even though they ask the Lord their sin or however they pray can't let go of it. Even though they ask God to the Bible and say, &quot;Well, yes, I asked the Lord to do and here's because He said He would do it.&quot; And somehow, it's like It's just still Turn back, if you Isaiah 43 and I want In the twenty &quot;I, even I, am the This is God speaking. &quot;I, even I, am the one who wipes sins--&quot; what's the next phrase? &quot;For My sake.&quot; Whose sake? He says, &quot;I, even I am transgressions for My own sake, &quot;Your sins.&quot; He says the--he says He says they are separated from the West. Now listen to me. If God says, &quot;I'm not what am I doing I'll tell you why. Satan uses our It is one of his Listen, not only will he harass If he can grab enough stuff out you're ashamed of or guilty some failures in your life--if here's what he'll say to you, talented person, &quot;You God's not going to use you. Look what you did in the past. Your past is still there, No, He doesn't. Then why am I remembering it? Because it's Satan's choice tool depress and bring Listen, if you've lived year suppose it's something you twenties or something eighty years of age and back yonder. This big, black Listen, that's what the blood is the black stuff in those holes back those sins, those things back you trauma then. And you are, oh, Friend, when you came to &quot;Father, I know that I've sinned I'm asking You to forgive me I thank You for it.&quot; Even if you didn't thank Him. Maybe you were just I'm just asking You to How many times do you heavenly Father to forgive you provided for at Calvary? One time. And so, we live with this sense we can't let go of the past. And I think especially of young trouble in different ways. Somehow they--you are you saying there are I've never said that. But now listen. Sin by its very That isn't God. Now we have to separate this. Listen now. The consequence of if I walk out in front of a car that isn't God breaking my leg. That's a consequence of not If you and I sin against God certain consequences. That's just the way life is. And so, no matter what happens the grace of God, listen, they the lovingkindness And, listen, God who knows He's the One who's always don't sin against Him. You know why? Not because He says, &quot;I'm But because He knows And so, you and I have to happened in what has happened in your life must let go of that. God has let go. But He says, &quot;I Separated as far as the That's why you and I can stand He has made you You know why? Because He has We're living, at this And so we are clean Another reason that we struggle we feel like we've missed God. Now there are a lot of "I believe that God called me something for Him." Well, what did He "Well, I'm not sure." God never calls you to do "I want you to serve Me." God's going to call you to do Now here's what happens. Let's say that we especially in missionary And you're standing there convicting you about your And God wants you to "I want you to fully surrender that you'll go anywhere, do "Oh God, I'm not So you don't come. So you live with this guilt. "God called me to missions. I didn't go." God didn't call you to missions He called you to walk the aisle to Him, a public commitment that to do. And He may have called you to go godly witness! Now you didn't miss God's call. You may have disobeyed "I want you to walk that aisle. Here's what I want you to do. I want you to commit that whatever I call you to do." Well, then just tell Him, to commit myself I know that was an absolute That was rebellion on my part. And I just want to ask You to thank You for Your forgiveness. Now Lord, here I am. What do You want Let's say that He did and you didn't do it. Life's over. You say, "I can't ever be Well, if God had called you to missionary or something like you are now forty-five years of you say, "Well, how can I ever me to do?" You can't, you can't go back and you know what you can do? You can confess the fact that being rebellious and wanting forgive you of your sin and "Lord, I fully surrender I know that You can You can pick up what's broken. You can take me at this point the center of Your will for this And God, I'm committed to wherever You say." Do you think God's going Now your boss may say that You know what "I knew you were coming I'm sorry you had to go through and pain for disobeying Now let's put it back together. I'm going to set you I'm going to show you what I can and messed up." God delights in putting them back together, giving them a new I don't care who you where you've been you can't name of God. You can't do it. You see, everybody's Anybody here not messed up? Anybody here who hasn't done never done? You know what? There's no such thing as a done something and who and change something. Thank God we, listen, we We just have to go up and watch That is the grace of God.