The American version. Interesting. This the first version to three killed in showdown and eaten by the rebels that is en route to do a recall of the gang of two. Quite a confluence of events of the 24. The gunship includes automatic grenade launcher and 20 millimeter cannon. It was flying a 7 to 7 shit out of Johannesburg into the interior Leone full of arms, full of soldiers. And this plane is moving in and out of Johannesburg. These men are modern mercenaries. They fight for the biggest mercenary army in the world. They're the foot soldiers in a global mining network with some of the most valuable diamond mines anywhere. They're executive outcomes and specialized in capturing diamond and oil fields from ragtag rebel army. Oh, the. Executive outcomes role in Sierra Leone was pivotal. Without them, nothing would have happened. They ran the show. Nobody could go to the diamond fields without them. It was their aircraft, their helicopter gunships, their bases from which these people worked diamonds. Some of the biggest and purest come from Sierra Leone. Executive outcomes fluid in 1995 to push back the rebels and capture the diamond fields. Although private armies are illegal under the Geneva Convention. These South African mercenaries have the backing of some powerful people in the West. I said to him, Well, you know, what is the situation? Because aren't you concerned about being stopped at some stage? And he said, No, we have got no problem on that. If they want to stop us, we'll move our operation to London because we have a very powerful godfather, a man by the name of Buckingham. Tony Buckingham. At the heart of this mining and mercenary network is multimillionaire. Tony Buckingham is a yachting fanatic and murky British Special Forces veteran. His interests span the globe, and though he doesn't give interviews, he was recorded talking about some of his investments that. Were in places like Angola and Uganda. Oman looking to get into into Russia or in Congo. And recently he took a contract in Malawi. This is Buckingham's headquarters in central London. It also houses a company which advertises military services called Sandline. Sandline says there are no links between their mercenaries and Buckingham's diamond business, but they do share officers. Sandline emerged out of something. It was a fairly loose and flexible organization, didn't really have a corporate structure. And it is no secret that Tony Buckingham had introduced executive outcomes to a number of governments in his capacity as an international investor. With their skills and firepower. They've turned the tide in large civil wars. But they're appointed here up for power. We can provide specialists to assist with specific projects technicians, pilots, electronic equipment operators. This is an expensive business. When you have to buy the equipment, you have to pay for it upfront. You have to pay effectively cash for it. You've got to pay the soldiers and the technicians from the day they start the project. And it's a very cash intensive business. And therefore, one way of assisting with this is by bringing in foreign foreign investors who, in exchange for mineral concessions, would invest in the country for the government. But most controversially, these foreign investors are the same men who provide the mercenaries. In 1995, Tony Buckingham masterminded a military operation which began with eco driving the UDF rebels from around the Sierra Leone capital, Freetown. Four months later, Buckingham's mining company began collecting diamond concessions today, worth over $1,000,000,000. Today, we've come together for a memorial service for the service of Daniel Rudolf Rudolph, better known as Dolph, was found missing on the 2nd of April 1994, while he was working as an instructor for the Polish government in Angola. I didn't know him personally, but I was privileged to know Morris went to the Gulf first and who couldn't even go out and kill the bugs and the kitchen. But it was lift them up and throw them out the back door. That's the kind of man that I was introduced to through Morris eyes. Both was a gold plated reconnaissance soldier, and both was also one of the older guys in the group. I think he knew, or I think both was also record of financial stress situation. I presume once you get the problems financially that you also had the before the. The fall of the apartheid regime spelled the end of an era for South African Special Forces soldiers. After years of combat in the bitter Bush wars against the ANC, many soldiers found it impossible to return to ordinary life. And stuff over the. This photograph is of the four people that went missing. And this was the last day that they actually were seen alive. That was the day that they left. Those missing in coming Zulu, part of a group in the London area. He said that he was told to go and he wouldn't do such a thing. He wouldn't be stupid enough to put his life on line for the amount of money that he got. Morris still keeps those things sent back from Angola after the battle in which he disappeared. I don't like the word mercenary because I can't place or see him as a mercenary. Use the most dangerous person alive, I think. And he wasn't a killer. We lost both of. It was approximately. I received the local authority for. We had to take it down. I would roughly say approximately 30 kilometers south of the Union border and PS80 to Foyle into the enemy boats. What we do we do for the enemy, for a is places to either help the helicopter smoke or fumes. All of the people coming out of the there. We know it was hit very, very, very badly. It was burned out. Helicopter was poured over by the victorious UNITA rebels. It was one of their biggest scoops ever. The big question for Mari is, did they take any prisoners that day? The unique video footage obtained by the producers shows for the first time ever. Executive outcomes, mercenaries in the frontline position. They don't admit they go into details. As we put this in my head, and that's where the mortars come. I just climb in there on the ground. This is my Bible. I told prosecutors, if you everyone has dug holes around here. I wanted to describe this as the. And when the bombs fall and we were pulled over by that tree, these leafy Pretoria suburbs, the new South Africa remains only a distant reality. It's also where executive outcomes is based. Behind bars, whitewashed walls and security cameras is an organization which has dispatched mercenaries to fight all over the world linked to apartheid's notorious death squads. There can be few people with as many secrets as even Barlow. In the community. Yeah, but I do. Think. Okay, you're a donor of novelistic. Writing Johannesburg development. You wrote from. The L.A. what. It means about. I can't talk to people. With a lot of respect. For place to the other things. To work on it. Cliff Adept at manipulating his public image, Barlow treads a delicate tightrope. On the one hand, he needs to advertise his real skill, his combat skills. On the other, the public must believe what he does is merely to train soldiers. Okay. But the truth is, what executive outcomes does do is find. Okay, on. Often we come under fire and we come under fire wherever we work. And we are contracted by governments that have conflicts, internal conflict. Everyone in the company knows that we are employed in high risk areas and therefore we are armed. All the Zulu mission was the first mission we had to do, but we had to take. It was described as a hospital with a few guards guarding the hospital, and we thought it was an easy talk, easy to a good sitting duck. Thought you should call it what you want. So with all of us, we employed more of it on these commando type operations. The we we never used any personnel of the employee or the government forces. It was small groups to be fitted into one or two helicopters. This video is used by EOH and Buckingham to advertise their where the mercenaries like to projected glossy corporate image. Very different from the old style tug of war. They say in contrast to mercenaries of old, their soldiers are disciplined and respect human rights. But Dr. Marius Paliwal, working in African conflict resolution, believes the corporate gloss does not reflect what actually happens when the fighting stopped. They're not accountable to the government. The purports to be fighting is accountable to the governments. When the countries they've come from, they don't seem to be accountable to anybody, seem to cover them. So nobody knows what they're doing. Once out in the bush. This remarkable video diary made by one of the mercenaries in Angola shows the reality of how they behave in the field. If you look at the face of. Great success today, we took. Time and. With very little loss on our side. Not from one or two, but we. Put some of the components. The regime accomplished. You could feel the pressure of exploding around. From all of us. We run into enemy fire. We run into the enemy several times. And now it's very bad. It's exploded all around us. We're standing on territory onto which our own people recently fired support. We surprised the enemy a little. I think. One of the reasons for this is that there are a couple of. Dead and a couple of very badly burned. Do you know what I think took his head off? I think he was sitting behind the tree. His head was shot off, but the rest is okay. Now what's going on? I'm down because I. Today we've reached our objective at this stage. We're busy with our work of plundering. We are loading wine and beer. But despite the evidence, those who employ these mercenaries maintain the hands are clean. We think they're extremely good. They're extremely professional and very good track record. There are no skeletons in the cupboard, as it were. I mean, we think that there a very good human rights record. Abu Dhabi in the Middle East capital of the United Arab Emirates and jewel in the Arab Peninsula. It's an opulent state created from the desert with the riches of oil. It's also become one of the most important sites for the world's largest arms dealers. Every two years it hosts the Eid. It's almost. Become one. Of the largest of its kind. In the world. So that weapons. Will be the show of the truth. The destruction. Everything is going very well. We've had very interesting people have been to see us and obviously we've been extremely busy over here. So it's too early to say that this was highly successful in terms of contracts. But already we've been invited to visit a few countries around here. And I believe that any government. That asks us to visit them. Can only be serious. Later, a secretly filmed meeting with a French general also involved in the mercenary business reveals that executive outcomes as grand ambition. But the competition is fierce. And they can be tons. We can open the door for you, maybe into a country. You can open the door for us. They can be countries with your skills and our skills combined. And it's I mean, we still stay independent, but there's no reason. Why we have to work against each other. We don't go into. Countries that are traditionally under French control in terms of work. And then when we're done, we don't go in. There are certain countries of. Union we have an interest in, but you don't. Actually anymore. Although we don't, we still are interested, but we're excited about it. You can say like that general business is business. Meanwhile, on the other side of the world, executive outcomes mercenaries have started Operation Oyster in Papua New Guinea, subcontracted, they say, by a British company called Sandline. After months of secret negotiations, seven CEO mercenaries have arrived. But the story's been leaked. We're not there to foment any destabilization. In fact, we were brought in on a. Specific assignment by. Sandline, and that is to train the armed forces. If the government of Papua New Guinea wishes that we should not be there, that is their prerogative. And then we will leave. But we're not there to start a civil war. But in Papua New Guinea on that very day, civil war does seem to be looming. The population are rioting because they've discovered mercenaries living in the country. We've executive outcomes as here to free this mine on Bougainville Island. It used to produce huge revenues, but today it sits idle, swamped by rebels. The separatists force the Panguna copper mine on Bougainville to close eight years ago. But the government knows that the rebels wouldn't rifles would be no match for eoh's high tech firepower. For years, Papua New Guinean troops have returned and coffins. They say they've paid for more resources, but the Government has always refused. We presented the number of military options, one of which involved Kutama operation to seize the mine because it was the enemy's center of gravity and was at the heart of the problem. We were only two battalions and the battalions just rotate and rotate and we could use that money. That 36 million kina to, uh, to form the tent battalion, get our equipments and our logistics in place. Then I'm definitely sure that we are quite capable of. So the Bougainville. Crisis has been restricted but not something illegal and. The army would have made in combat is now running against the troops, are angry at politicians, lies that the foreigners wouldn't have been fighting. But the EO contracts contract states the mercenaries were to defeat the Beira rebels and repossess the Panguna mine. Sam Spicer, the UK architect of the contract, faces legal charges today. He's consulting his lawyers in the PNG capital, Port Moresby. Letters between London and Papua New Guinea show a high handed and sophisticated sales routine. There are also well based allegations of a plan to enrich. Local MP is prepared to back mercenary deals. Troops are massing at the central barracks. The country is in crisis. Ordinary Papua New Guinea people have heard of the scandal and now they want the government out from it. Seem to be a bunch of people who revolution, who form revolutionary. Groups against the. Government in operating out of the gold mining industry. We are going the Parliament here. They are protesting at the idea of foreigners coming in. Citizens, politicians and businessmen can make money. It's nationwide revulsion at the idea of these mercenaries to solve a very local issue. MP One wonder surrounding the Parliament, they won't allow MPs to leave until the Government stands down. Meanwhile, inside the besieged building, politicians squabble over who's responsible. Something worth mentioning that. During the debate the government admits there was a link between the mine and the mercenaries. It's something they had always denied. Mr. Speaker, our government has made a policy decision that any future expenditure on Bougainville, when the problem is brought to a close, will be repaid from the economy of building with a little repair by Parliament order. Tim Spicer strenuously denies any interest in the Panguna mine. But in his own words to the PNG defense minister, he wrote, We may be able to assist with funding and could come to some arrangement regarding part payment with mineral concessions. There was a discussion of mineral concessions. It was unrelated to the St Sandline contract and seemed to be a sensible thing to do to help a government who had spent millions on this war. It's the early hours of the morning. Protesters and soldiers still besiege the parliament. The trigger only lot to get started before. We have been confined to Parliament and I think it's a siege. The military and people surrounding the Parliament House. I've been in politics for 30 years and within those 30 years. This is my first experience and I've been confined and I, you know, I can go out. Only a handful of MPs ever knew anything of the contract before and was signed. And big money. But many now know how executive outcomes work. They are known for something. They just get out there and shoot or whatever. It's in the way. They don't care. They just achieve their mission. And whatever the ultimate how many people to kill or the hurt and the ill feelings. That's our problem. And I don't want to see this happen in this country. Unlike Angola, Papua New Guinea is a poor country with few resources and there's never been the political will to really wipe out the rebels. It was rather a case of greedy politicians falling into the grip of determined British salesmen. A group that has its own private security force can get concessions from a government that is desperate for any foreign exchange and for protection. The contract included helicopter gunships, rockets and high tech surveillance equipment, but PNG officers also spoke of an ultra secret consignment of even worse munitions. Major Walter Neumann worked with the mercenaries and didn't like there was. No support in the potential for massacres. They were weaponry that are now at our disposal, which we never had before. And we're one that could kill people within a radius of two or three kilometers. South African intelligence has discovered that EOH had purchased 70. If you want the state of the art Russian weapons which suffocate everything in a two kilometer circle. Maybe I've heard rumors about a few bombs and the application of, but I think and that's my personal opinion, that if we were bombs in that area would not serve any purpose in any case. Sandline is now suing the PNG government for the $20 million they say is still owed to them. Bill Skate's, the new Prime Minister, though, has vowed he won't pay. He may sign a legitimate contract with the legitimate government. The question is whether that contract was approved by parliament and whether it was within the Constitution and if it has been in violation with the Constitution, it should be dealt with. And so so it should be the government. From the British High Commission where Colonel Tim Spicer stayed during his confinement in Papua New Guinea. He reluctantly gave a press conference, but he refused to be drawn on just who is behind his British organization. I don't wish to comment on that. Or why a mercenary was receiving red carpet treatment from the UK High Commission. I'm a British subject. I think the British government have shown me every facility that they're able to do. You know, Sandline is happened to have an office in London. There is no association other than that. While Spicer stays behind to face an inquiry. His fighters are going back to where they come from. South Africa. I don't know. But it's become clear this was a very British operation. We do not wish to interfere with what I would call, you know, the sort of foreign policy, the general thrust of foreign policy of Western governments, because in general, we are supportive of their their efforts. It's never been the British government's policy to encourage people to go to a military solution when there is what we believe to be a good chances of a negotiated settlement. I think that in those circumstances, the sort of thing that we had in mind was useful. And I don't think it cuts across, but except in this instance that clearly the Minister did not think it was useful. You know, that Jeremy Hunt immediately called it a very unusual thing. He calls the high commissioner across and says this has got to stop. This is not the way to go about this. And the aid that we give your country will be at risk if you do it. I mean, I can't see how that could be construed as, you know, again, I don't know what took place. And and I wouldn't really wish to comment on what was said. No one answered in that particular instance. In retrospect, it looks as though you were fantastically badly. Briefed, which well. It's easy to be wise after the event. One doesn't necessarily know everything. It's well known that government ministers know only what they're told. Why didn't you tell the minister more? Given the fact they obviously knew more. The officials, both in PNG and therefore in Whitehall, knew a substantial amount of information at that point. It's very hard. I can only guess as to why the minister wasn't told more and it would seem that something was happening between British intelligence and possibly American intelligence, or between British intelligence and Australian intelligence with private security operations in PNG, which they approved of, but were worried the minister might not approve of. Approved of an inverted commas. Find useful convenient words like that spring to mind. London is the traditional hub of the world of spies and freelance fighters. Here they come to catch up with the latest covert wizardry freely available on the streets. It's Buckingham's world. Spies and high powered soldiers are his friends and employees. And it's more reason why the authorities would have known exactly what Buckingham was up to. Inside his Glass fronted HQ in London, Britain has no law against mercenaries fighting for foreign governments or fighting for diamonds. It's left Tony Buckingham free to offer multinationals a unique solution to their third world problems. If you're doing it on open line, it's extremely easy for the intelligence services to tap it, to pick it out of the airwaves, to do anything. You know, it really would have known exactly what was happening blow by blow. And at the Papua New Guinea inquiry, Spicer admitted that he does work for Buckingham. But he said executive outcomes is entirely separate. Only a subcontractor. But then the judge revealed $80 million was paid into a joint account controlled by even Barlow and Buckingham. The judge concluded the information provided by Sandline that they're entirely separate from EOH cannot be correct. A home video made by Executive Outcomes shows the worst of the marriage between Western business and the soldiers who for so long propped up Just told you we struck oil and that's no sin. It is home. Video also claims that the oil industry has played a key role in providing work for the mercenaries, says Diallo's letter. We went in in 1993 to secure the oil fields so that they could recover the equipment. Yes, the oil can be purchased. Texaco from the Gulf, from gold. Everyone that has been able to now continue with the oil production and all the international oil companies have now started investing very heavily into that area. So peace was so deep. The conditions for investment afterwards. Absolutely no investor is going to allow his money to be spent thinking you name is going to lose it. In the world. Oh, my concern is that field. Executive outcomes mercenaries aren't easy to find. Their contracts demand secrecy with big financial penalties for those who speak out. The mountains of the Eastern Transvaal are a favorite hideaway for fighters who find it difficult to readjust to normal life. In 1993, David was recruited for Eoh's first contract in Angola. Four years later, he's still a mercenary. His job in the South African army ended when the ANC came to power. He says executive outcomes saved him and many others from the bread queue. Being a mercenary, a glamorous job that never, ever it's a job you. Do because that is what you are, what you've been trying to do with your life. Of being a soldier. If you're going to do. It, you do it properly. He says the first contract was in the Angolan That task to capture the soya oil base while a British team rescued equipment. When we recruit recruited if soya the purpose behind it apart from guarding the oil. Support base was to recover. A. Fairly technical computerized pumping station or floating. Pumping station, and that was the main thing. Apparently the figures were somewhere in the region of. $80 billion. Executive outcomes had arrived. They easily captured the oil base, David says to Britain's conducted the operation. One was Tony Buckingham. The other Simon Mann also says the international oil community had sent in its own private army. At the time I met up with and I was introduced by as Tony Buckingham and I'm a man. I was aware of the fact that they were. Involved in, you know, the sponsorship. Of recovering the oil drum and the whole soya trip. But they weren't introduced. To me as this is, you know, Brigadier General. Or major general or whatever rank they may have had. Just as two businessmen from an oil company. Their Angolan HQ was Quando base, where oil workers used to stay offshore. The mercenary team used oil company boats to prepare for their attacks. Once the oil base was captured, troops discarded their uniforms, pretending to be ordinary security guards and invited in the press. We were hired by a legitimate oil company, and they decided that to get expert people in, like the British or whoever, to protect the installations are going to need some advice. Is that mercenaries equal? That mercenaries? The Sawyer mission was Eoh's first Angolan contract, and it was the beginning of a lucrative business strategy. Today, Buckingham and his portfolio of companies control some of Angola's most valuable assets. Luanda, Angola's capital. It's a devastated city. It should be one of the richest in Africa. But a vastly corrupt government has seen to it that ordinary Angolans see none of it. Cuba once extended the hand of friendship to Angola. Today, its international business, which supports the corrupt officials who control everything here. Buckingham Sick and operation in Angola involves not oil but rather diamonds. You would agree that the guy who's financing this whole, though story and if we needed any equipment, specialized equipment, it was told it would go back to little old school, for instance. We'll discuss it. We knew that either die was an oil that was paying for this whole exercise and we knew the government gave us the weapons. But the money we bought the weapons, it was thought it came from from Angolan people. When Dolphin Thunder first disappeared, Mary was given photos of three dead men. She still agonizes whether one of them is her husband. I might be wrong, I don't know. But when I look at the scars and stars, I can see his house is swollen. He's got a straight mustache as those head mustache that comes from. We didn't even get a letter to say they were sorry. It was like they wanted us to believe that they would do it so that we could just carry on with our lives and we wouldn't be a burden to them. When executive outcomes did send Mary a letter, it was a lawyer's letter demanding about $1,000 for a death certificate for her husband. They even refused to pay out his one year contract. Sweetheart. I don't know how to write this letter, but after UNITA attacked us, it was decided by the powers that be to teach them UNITA a lesson that they would never forget, to absolutely annihilate everything within a radius of 30 k's. And the result was that nothing was left and bodies everywhere. It was devastating. The Iraqis captured a few UNITA soldiers and what they did to them to extract information from them. If only you can imagine that. En route to one big city in southern Angola, heading into UNITA rebel territory today, UNITA remains cut off from the world by self-imposed frontlines and the UN struggles to maintain a fragile peace. The body of the latest Brazilian peacekeeper to be killed back to the Angolan capital. EO supporters say private armies are less costly and more effective than the UN body is. Peace does not always. Last. By Lunda is the capital of UNITA territory and a town where the people have seen the worst today. UNITA has been beaten into submission and the EO widely regarded as being responsible. Many here witnessed executive outcomes in the battlefield. They say the worst was the EO Air Force. They say that once the mercenaries were employed, the air war became more fierce A lot more than I think that, or quite more so than that. You are going. To see them in the helicopter. That I'm window to. It and they would shoot the. Rangers are beyond what would be but if. It was an airplane we wouldn't see them. I do not know. When you hear the language. They speak. The language with them. Do you know. Congress in London? And you guys didn't? She's been like this all over her body. It's clear evidence of phosphorous bombing and it's all Pedro Martin in Mumbo City. MiGs dropped phosphorus bombs onto this crowded marketplace. They are bombing. This place is like a San Pedro market where they were seeing a lot of people. When the bombs are falling. It comes as being. And then it divide itself in smoke bombs and the way to look like when they are now burning. They've been like a big fire and lay in a big fire and it depends. Doing a nice like that. It was undoubtedly the success of the Mercenaries Air Wing, which did the most to turn the tide in this war. Executive outcomes bought and pilots who though not familiar with the big jets. Were quick to attack the problem. The South Africans did bring with them huge experience having spent years here flying at war for the old apartheid government. Has been given an uncontrolled freedom for destruction. There are no controls to the force they can deploy or how they deploy it. Unexploded phosphorous bombs are all too easy to find. In Wamba, Jonah Savimbi house was hit with pinpoint accuracy. It's believed that a key task was to kill Savimbi, the rebel leader. The BBC told the world that that Zindzi, 70 of the elderly, died when we attacked the town and mostly women and children. Then we also also have a few personal incidents. We were shot at civilians l'algerie copter by individuals of the complete because we are difficult because the civilians in that area will play beauty to the enemy. Some in the army of battle fatigues, some will receive at least civilian clothes. So it was very, very difficult. It's a very difficult war to distinguish between we are the civilians. What Tony Buckingham and Tim Spicer would have the world believe is that if the United Nations were to give them a job, they'd stop the world's wars in no time, and it wouldn't cost the international community a penny. I don't think that countries can expect just to have handouts from organizations like the UN. I think the UN has a role to play, but I think that it's very clear that investment in private business and business development also has a role to play and they should work in parallel. The U.N., given teeth and resources and money could solve this conflicts without the country having to pay through its nose to not to achieve peace, because Angola is still not at peace. Sierra Leone is still in the peace. In southern Angola. The producers asked if you need to might have captured money from Tundra's husband, Dolf. Among the demobilizing UNITA troops, a soldier was found who did know something and you need to also handed over photographs never seen before. They said he's a mercenary, captured during battle, But they must pay at the moment. When we captured that. I once a. Year or two ago depended on it. Because the government always denies. Or many will give a bit like. That. We have to display. The. Guerrilla and this is what it's all about. The diamond fields of Angola. After EOH had taken to town, Buckingham's companies were rewarded with some of the richest diamond concessions in the world. In a 1996 prospectus, Buckingham claimed his Angolan concessions held diamonds worth three and a half billion dollars further. Huge security budgets are then spent on the same mercenaries to guard his mines. It's a key Buckingham strategy Wherever his mercenaries have fought. Alpha five in central Luanda is just one that EOH is associated with now that the Angolan mercenary operations are over. They are still here in Angola. We understand that there are some special companies who have recruited these people, but we think that it is a special plan, probably because there are some people still in Luanda or the mercenaries in Rwanda who are leading some they say they call security companies, private companies. They this group are recruited to be there. They are still there. Particularly the very large multinational companies and especially the oil companies, say BP, Shell and the American companies as well, who are increasingly forming close relationships with special forces, with security forces, who are then almost privatizing the security operation around the oil industry, around the the multinational companies concerns big European. Canadian, multinational oil multinationals. From there, the the the installations and the oil refineries are threatened. And I mean, this is multibillion dollar. Well, operations. They were the ones that initially drew executive outcomes into Angola. Yes. As security people. But also to liberate so and to get involved in the fighting. In the Pretoria Garden of the Executive Outcomes there's a memorial to the EOH mercenaries who've died in battle, mostly in Angola. But Angolan visa forms and South African passports were easy to see in Eoh's personnel office. It's further evidence that executive outcomes has never really left Angola. But with a lot of positive spirit. We're looking for specialized guys. That's my main criteria. Normally, I'd say someone that's not terms. Trained to combat team level. We do need pilots from now and then. Mostly it's chopper pilots that would be good to put that. In their personnel files. The details from the 2000 mercenaries and logistics people and the details of everyone from the notorious covert police unit also seem to be here. Covert was renowned for cruelty and political killings during the apartheid era. As international business. Grows, executive outcomes is changing. Traveling. This man, Nick, funded Burge, is now, they say, in charge. But. He doesn't have the death squad past the dogged even Barlow. Our personnel office is situated in the outbuildings and we also have my financial people sitting in the outbuildings and also the logistical guys. So where is all the equipment and our equipment? We did have we wanted to have a look at this for the armor flak jackets. We don't want to get involved in anything that's illegal. So we enter into a legal contract with a legal government that's a recognized government. And that's our way of doing things. On those walls, a chart shows a computer network linking the UK, the United States and South Africa. It's a chilling indication of just how big these people are. Executive outcomes officers show evidence of an intricate global network of companies. The bookshelves give away another link to Britain. It's the airline Ibis Air. Also closely associated with Tony Buckingham. Yes, we do have a number of helicopters and planes, but the planes are grouped in a specific company. But we do get preferential treatment from that company because we have shares in the company. EOH have declared to the South African banking authorities. Ibis Air is a company largely owned by them. But Tony Buckingham carries a business card, Yet another indication of Buckingham's key role without obvious executive outcomes would literally never have got off the ground. Executive Outcomes is not. A secretive. Organization. We are registered with the Registrar of Companies as a legitimate company. It has no front. Companies that is a figment of someone's. Imagination, which in all fairness, we suspect was something generated by. South African military intelligence. Ibis heir moved Petra, Beryl and a family to work in their Kenya division. She says they were given bank accounts controlled by the Moy family. That's that's the truth. Those heads of Beryl showed us illegal aircraft registration stickers, which she says she was asked to make registration. She believes executive outcomes, IBIS and all the others are the same crooked company. We were never he was never told that they were. They were connected to executive outcomes. He thought he was working for an airline. We heard a lot about how great things went for them in Sierra Leone and about how they've got virtually enslaved this country by the mining rights and things like this. Petra Borel also tells of how ibis heir arranged for a family's passports to be confiscated. Once they started asking questions. Petra 16 year old son Elijah now carries a gun. He's terrified. Er, mercenaries will come and get them because they speaking out against ego. My mother's frightened and frightened. We all. We were pretty frightened of these people. We carry firearms. Different weapons. I inspect the every day. Maybe because we going to expose their whole operation and they might not be able to get work anymore. As mercenary. But there is evidence that in private, Western government officials do support the use of this new breed of mercenary. Last year, the American Defense Intelligence Agency convened a classified symposium at this Washington hotel to discuss mercenary activity. Key American policymakers were there, and those who attended said the mercenaries were given red carpet treatment. People in the British government and in the American government have mixed feelings about the private security forces. They're not under the control of the government, but I think they're very strongly under the government's influence. They will go in as combat operators and effectively do things which Western want to have done but are very reluctant to do themselves. I just have almost totally lost. Faith in the ability. Of the international community. To respond with anything other than rhetoric to people security problems. I think the current I think there's a state of total confusion. In the international community about. What to do about third. World disorder. From airports like this one at Lanseria outside Johannesburg. I was aircraft full of mercenaries have streamed in and out. Experts suspect that with so many British military figures involved, executive outcome has the support of the British Secret Service. On the wild coast of South Africa. Colonel John Breitenbach of the South African Army is sure there are UK intelligence links. With Africa around the best. Breitenbach led the apartheid regime in battle against the Angolans. He says even during South Africa's darkest and most ostracized days, he always had links with the English SARS. And it was Colonel Young who founded South Africa's elite reconnaissance unit, the recce. He modeled the unit on the SARS and is seen here with senior SARS officers. He's one of the few who would know of Eoh's intelligence links. After the war. Sterling Capricorn consisted of a former personnel, which was used by the British Foreign Office to extend, as it were, their influence in third world countries. The organization that comes work with from the series was known as Capricorn, so that to me was the connection between the British of Capricorn and the executive outcomes. Perhaps worried by this link, executive outcomes change the name of its airline to Ibiza in though Tony Buckingham refused to give an interview for this His Kings Road HQ was clearly panicking. There were some suggestions that executive outcomes are linked and more than a knowledge of each other. With Mr. Tony Buckingham and his deputies, and something about Mr. Buckingham businesses being related to British intelligence services somehow. What I'm happy to do is to document to you the facts and and then if those facts come across, I'll be very happy if you present another story that presents a different image, then it will be very unfortunate. The Papua New Guinea prime minister resigned over the issue and a commission of inquiry was established for the first time. The operations of Spicer, Buckingham and Executive Outcomes were forensically examined. It was a unique opportunity to dig into the murky roots of the organization. But Spicer was still unwilling to say who owns his company. You are a director of Sandline? Yes. How long have you been a director? Since it started. And you actively work in the company? Yes Involved in very significant deals on behalf of the company? Correct. And you do not know and cannot identify one shareholder of that company? That is. Correct. The inquiry went on to reveal a wave of corruption and business intrigue throughout. There were indications of a vast financial deal involving multinational interests in the region. Why is it a mystery? I mean, I don't. Understand why it's a mystery because I mean, people who support any type of business, who wish to maintain the confidentiality or the discreet involvement in a particular thing, choose not to advertise their ownership or whatever. This is known. She you know, this is the day after we have been busy having a bit of a party since last night. One of the men said early morning of eligibility that the man. Who did the job of the men who is sitting here owns what and the people he wants in our group. It's true to say they that a great deal the Angolan operation was for many mercenaries and adventure. But some complain of the inability to put the gun happy times behind the. Battles with the South. I think they were quite a few guys who should have got medals that go over the rest of the reasons. It was actually a very empty feeling. You have to get a quite normal life to give you a normal sleeping pattern for relationships with people who are due to be married. Doesn't talk about this very lightly. But it was to be serious. Was very, very serious. I experienced very intensively and I feel sorry for the people around me. My from and was deeply surprised to hear of the new photographs that had emerged during the trip to Angola after four years. She'd given up hope. And she's lost weight. But what does it mean? Dolf might be alive? Well, thank you so much. In the new South Africa, there's plenty of revulsion at the country's apartheid killers now going off and killing four other people. It's a reminder of a past. South Africans are trying hard to forget that at the South African parliament, a new law has now been put forward to put executive outcomes out of business. It proposes a ten year jail sentence for anyone caught fighting for money. There's sometimes a perception that the South African government is. Sanctioning the. Activities of such mercenaries we have publicly condemned. We are trying everything to ensure that we convince governments that we don't have any official connections and that we are taking steps to deal with this problem. It is a matter of tremendous embarrassment as well as concern to us. Anyone who understands. The term mercenary and who understands our company will, whether it's inside our company or outside the company, deny that we are mercenaries. First, start governments all over the world make use of private contractors to train the armies of client governments and no exception to. At the inquiry, Tim Spicer showed little understanding of international norms, but he did insist his soldiers are bound to respect the Geneva Convention. Which Geneva Convention is referred to here in this. Agreement. Well, I'm afraid I do not know the answer to that specifically. You mean by clause or by the Geneva Convention, not. The Geneva Convention. I would assume there are many Geneva Conventions. Well, as I understand, the Geneva Convention, it is a law of armed. Conflict that is the treatment of prisoners of war and things like that. Absolutely. Treatment of civilians. Treatment of civilians. Treatment of prisoners. Conduct of operations. That sort of thing. Now, are you also aware that there is a convention dealing with prohibiting the use of mercenaries? I am not familiar with that at all. Should out of sight, out of mind. As the world take stock of this new mercenary breed. It's easy to take a back seat from the comfort of our European certainties. Clear executive outcomes. It's clear executive outcomes is not replacing the armed forces of countries like the United States. There is, but it is. Trying to do so in other countries. J k me that matter. Yeah, the law is thing. I was like. Oh, that's in the New World Order with increased competition. Multinationals will continue searching for profits even from war zones. Executive outcomes and others like them are sure to stay around. Rather than. Trying to eliminate the phenomenon, control it, and get it out in the open. If you can't get it licensed, at least demanded it adhere to these international standards. But if the priority is profit, surely then respect for human rights will always wind up taking a backseat. Of course, if you are throwing bombs from the air, you don't know where that ending. Killing children, lactating women and elderly people who cannot run away. And the people who are targeted. The fighters usually escape. Executive outcomes and Sandline are clearly deadly efficient at what they do. But as the foot soldiers of Western foreign policy need appear to be questionable, candidates.