Let's say Mr. Blue, and Ms. Red have each The police think they committed a more serious to convict them. They need a confession. They take them and put them in separate rooms To try to force a confession the police give Admit your partner committed the crime, and We'll pardon you for the minor crime but your If you stay silent and your partner lets us it then you're going to have to go away for They know that the police don't have any evidence only go to prison for 1 year each for the If they both betray each other then they'll OK, each partner can do 1 of 2 things. Stay Silent, or Betray. Staying silent would be cooperating and betraying If they both stay silent, they each spend If one betrays and the other stays silent, spends 3 years in prison. If they both betray then it's 2 years each. So what are they going to do? Well they should cooperate. That's the best option for the group, if we But let's take it from Red's perspective. If she thinks blue is going to stay silent, Going free is better than a year in prison. If she thinks he's going to betray her then is better than 3 and being made a fool of. Blue is in the exact same situation and will if she stays silent and he should betray if They should have both cooperated, but from could always gain by defecting. If they have no control over what the other So they'll both defect to try to better their But come away not only hurting the group, Individually they're worse off than if they This situation is pretty made up, but it has A common example is with marketing . and Smooth blue, are deciding how much money Since the product they each make is identical on sales. For simplicity let's say their choices are: all. And there's just 100 people in this society If both don't advertise, then just by random buy Red Strikes and 50 people buy Smooth blue. At $2 a pack they each make $100. Let's say advertising costs $30. If one person advertises and the other does from the ads and 20 people buy the other ones. The advertiser makes $160 minus $30 for ads, The non advertiser didn't spend money, but If they both advertise, again half will buy But since they both spent $30 on advertising, Same deal, both people cooperating and not but both company can see that advertising But unlike the prisoner's in jail, these companies From here Blue would be better off if Red Red wouldn't go for that because that would Blue could try to convince Red that they would where they're both better off. But without any real obligation to each other, trying to advertise to gain more of the market If you think your opponent's going to not Although we're still making assumptions to With this model we're assuming they only play The game changes when the players have a chance to get more gains over time, or punish each Also to make the model work we have to make Assume they're basically computer programs These guys are creepier than they were in They were supposed to be cute. For the prisoner's dilemma and other similar A rational agent is a hypothetical person predict will work out best for them. They're not really thinking about the gains Seems selfish but it something that real people People always want what's best for themselves But if you put real people in the prisoner's model predicts. In one study, 40 people playing prisoner's ever meeting or talking, only playing each a payoff matrix that looks like this, cooperated These people never cooperated. These are people always cooperated. These guys cooperated on half of their games This is a lot of cooperation coming from a The largest group did act like rational agents, once. It's because there's more to real people. We are social creatures and even in a one and no chance to build a relationship, we're We're actually thinking from the perspective Cooperating an average of 20% of the time this is with absolutely no communication or Anyways, that's not really the point. Using the rational agent is still useful. The model is just trying to point out the people actually hurting themselves when counter-intuitively, and that's why we're modelling using the cold