Hi. It's I'm just outside of Cape And there's something here that I just It's way too weird and way too cool. This Kerbal fever dream thing is the same 64 Navajo cruise And it's actually really, really, There's a ton of awesome technology this beautiful monstrosity features both It's super advanced. They actually had to do a ton of problem solving to get this thing Features a lot of advanced technologies at the time, considering Yeah, it's actually really cool. So I just want to give you on some of the technology and then just kind of talk losing out to its competitor, which went on to be So yeah, Navajo cruise missile. Let's get started. After World War II, nuclear warheads from the US to the Soviet This was the start of the United States's of a proper intercontinental ballistic At the time, nuclear warheads were heavy. So the program's goals eventually of up to 4,500kg, and they were aiming at a range of just over 8000km. And this was a tall order the only operational cruise missiles The V1 was only capable about 250km in distance, 1000kg up to 320km. So to lift four and a half times more mass was an ambitious leap in technology. The Army's Air Force American Aviation, Their design was a two stage vehicle brand new fangled technologies, Ramjets are capable of and efficiently, but they require a way on compressing the incoming air So in order to get the vehicle up to operating speeds, to get it off the ground altitude of 15km, The US wound up flooded from German scientists who were captured through a secret program called "Operation at North American Aviation, who eventually split off A good starting point. Perhaps two of the biggest technologies the Germans were working on to improve injector plate and cylindrical combustion on the KS50 concepts, and spherical chambers Another technology that NAA were developing for this program for the walls of the combustion chamber Instead of using thick and heavy inner even started to use the main propellant of ethanol and LOX Instead of decomposing hydrogen peroxide They also developed a clever gear so they could make the turbine There was a distinctive squeal at ignition This sound might be familiar to you launch startup, because this is basically The engine that they eventually wound up for the first flights of the Navajo And this engine right here is rocket program, and has influenced rocket engine since. But beyond the rocket engine technology, for spaceflight that was developed The German system had a simple you know, some basic navigation, so NAA developed a kinetic double or KDIA called N1, of the vehicle This led to a fairly accurate system. However, it still drifted at a rate missile flying for three hours, They wound up developing the N2 INS, the N1 with a star tracker The program originally was going to have Phase one was a supersonic jet aerodynamics, guidance and general control There was a major flaw of the Germans. A-4 b winged ballistic missile which had a swept wing design This led the X-10 program to use a large front to provide the control and stability Phase two of this program was the G 26 And it'd be the last vehicle It featured the XLR 71 engines x RJ 47 W5 ramjet on the upper stage. Phase three would have been the G 38, and had three more powerful engines And these were the XLR 83 on the booster like titanium components, solid state The G 26, otherwise known as the SM 64 went on to fly ten times, none of the flights at the same time as the Navajo. The SM 65 Atlas was also being developed and it used many technologies But Atlas could actually hit the same and could hit its targets in about 30 making it even harder to detect Due to the Navajos troubles and rockets and reliable. The industry shifted to purely rocket The launch of Sputnik in 1957 for the Navajo program. The US went full blown rocket mania, race as we know it today. I'm definitely a bit sad we didn't see direction, though, for the simple fact And it's easy to imagine a world where in a tiny little capsule, you know, vehicle into orbit, shuttle Getting into all this really makes me on all US rocket engines someday, Maybe someday. Maybe someday. the way, I've done a video about why we don't tend to see air And I have another part why we don't see highly efficient air but the Navajo cruise missile is perhaps and air breathing engines. However, it is funny what would seem to make sense, breathing engines and then launching a rocket It's just kind of funny. Instead, it's using a rocket to get I just find that kind of funny and ironic. Let me know or thoughts in the comments below. Don't forget if you want to learn more I owe a huge over at Patreon.com/EverydayAstronaut And while you're online, including our new 1969 collection Thanks everybody. I'm Tim Dodd, the Everyday Astronaut bringing space