melodic acoustic guitar [police siren] melodic acoustic guitar MAN: Got his little outfit he's wearing. PETER: Okay, so where am I in Scandana... Where are we? ROGER: You're out here at -You're the Lakota expert, right Roger? -Yeah, I'm a historian. -You're the OG around here. ANGEL: I would say if there's someone -Okay. -I've been teaching for 26 years. -At a local Catholic Jesuit school. -Oh wow, so you're Catholic? -I was a little baby when I was baptized -Okay. -You could say, I guess, but more a recovering Catholic -Gotcha, gotcha. So I just drove in from Crow this morning. ROGER: Made it out alive, huh? PETER: Made it out alive. That's what they said about you guys. They said I wouldn't I love the sh*t talking between the tribes. I've noticed that. Yeah, there's a lot of rivalry. I mean the Crows were the ones PETER: Wow, nice place. ROGER: Thank you, thank you. -This is cool. Beautiful. ANGEL: We have a mortgage on a home is that the government gives us houses, Which we don't. -So you're paying -Yeah, we got mortgage and then the Thunder Valley really helped us with the process and gave us the education. ROGER: These houses are set up too two, three, four, five, six, seven. -Yep. -Seven houses set up [dogs barking] And her entrance faces the East. Traditionally, that's how -Okay, okay. -With the leader in the center So that's what I call my daughter's house 'Cause it's in the center right here. The two at the end are the warriors So everybody that comes in, they're supposed to come in -So I was told... The last few days actually in Montana they said, &quot;Oh, two things, and &quot;Pine Ridge is the poorest.&quot; Which first impressions, um... You know... Different than what I thought And it's not all like this obviously but... -Well I mean economically per capita we are one of the poorest -You guys are so far in here. It took forever to get here Like an hour and a half. -Oh yeah, yeah, so if you notice That's also by design. And that's the way So all the money goes off the reservation. PETER: So what I'm realizing is every reservation has For example, yesterday on Crow people could homestead White people or any people So some of that land even through it's in their reservation. -What about here? -Um, here it's the majority is tribal ran. -In modern times I know unless you have a title to it, You own it. -So you could sell it to anybody? Now if you have a title, It belongs to the tribe. -But in reality, all the land -Really? -Yeah, it all belongs -This is all Washington's land technically? Lakota... This is from That happened in 1876. So the Lakota got the fame. The Crow got the land over in Montana And that comes from a Cheyenne friend. Like I said, I'm part Cheyenne also. -Oh, okay, okay. -Yeah. -And a lot of that is on Yeah, yeah, yeah, they're... -Between the tribes? My daughter's a Navajo, my daughter, -Yeah, yeah. Through of course, [all giggling] -Tinder? You guys use Tinder out here? In our traditional way we didn't marry. If you married within your (kioshpa), because you're all relatives, right? -Okay. &quot;You can't marry nobody from here, &quot;So you gotta find yourself -That's good advice, huh? [all laughing] Otherwise everybody's ROGER: I think it was more in the '90s. And it was all over reservations With the movies like -Okay. -You know, the kids growing up and emulating the Bloods and the Crips, What's going on in the cites and of course we have young Natives and bring it back to the reservation. And so for a while there in the '90s, man, calling themselves Bloods and Crips. The medicine man here had a big following and I felt like I was one of the only ones -Uh-huh. -But I seen them out there together, You know, who claimed to be -But at the sun dance they were cool? You couldn't bring that gang stuff -So that's interesting, inner city America -Yeah, yeah, yeah. -All because... I seen it from the media. Tupac and Biggie. -That thing came out East Coast versus West Coast I'm like, &quot;East side? What part [laughing] -So these other normal homes out here, -Yeah, pretty much. with stick-built houses HUD houses. As a tribal member you're allowed I can apply for assignment, and maybe 'Cause I live in a trailer in the village. This is a dialysis building. We have so much diabetes So people come in here for dialysis. -Just from the diet, the modern diet? Because of the government rations And I mean it's like that -Right. There's a lot of people with diabetes. -It's beautiful countryside though. They call it the (wakbe castnawy). &quot;The month when the leaves fall -Do you speak your language -No, she's Ojibwe. -Okay. -So I do, she knows a little bit. I speak more with Our parents were that generation was beat out of them in the schools. It was against the law because, you know, -Yeah. -I was lucky enough, the majority of the people Not like it is today. Now other than the school systems Especially in the school I work at. Of course that's 'cause I teach it now. -They're into it though? A lot of them want because that's part of And a lot of them are realizing that. If you want to call yourself a Lakota Whereas like Navajo, there's probably I don't know how it is there, PETER: Darwin, you speak Navajo? -How do they take you in here, Darwin? -Well... -Do you have to prove yourself? You know, if you've seen [Roger chuckling] Just like that but a Navajo version I was headed up to North Dakota I don't know if you heard Like a couple years ago. -So I was headed up there and I was coming through and I got captured. I got captured. -By the Lakotas, yeah. -So I got captured and I never went back. I speak fluent Navajo. Still trying to learn English Yep. (Dineh), is how we say it. Me and Roger here, we're known as res. We're hardcore res. Earlier when you were on your way in a couple miles and you text me to not give you the res directions. Because that's what So I was like, trying to not say, &quot;...and a dead horse, you've gone too far.&quot; [all laughing] [police siren] ROGER: Is this... It's a wake? PETER: Can I film that, is it okay? ROGER: Yeah, you can film it. I don't know who it is but... -So what you were saying, The cartel has made its way -Mexican cartel? A few years back there was an article about some cartel members that and that's how they made their way and so what they'd do is go to the girls. The girls would introduce them at the parties and stuff And then once they got 'em hooked They have to buy it from them. -So that's how it made its way in. I'm assuming the same way here. melodic acoustic guitar [door closes] PETER: This is very important -Oh yeah, yeah, and it's also 'Cause this was the last conflict where they just kind of killed everybody. And it was from the 7th Cavalry of course. Who was Custer's remaining after they -Mm-hmm. -Well then that was the 7th Cavalry So for us it was revenge. The United States 'cause they used the 7th Cavalry -So are these battles in your everyday life as a Lakota? As far as there's this thing that has been documented and researched. That a lot of our people because of this event. They never used to talk about it of what might happen, retaliation. People that were here and witnessed it. When you see your people just annihilated &quot;Wow, how could they PETER: Navajoes won't come in here? It's okay if I'm in here? Okay. ROGER: So this is where and you can see -Okay. -So what's the state of Catholicism -Well as you know, Christianity It was the missionaries who came -Sure ...the United States government. A lot of the people are actually returning Some of 'em, like I said, but I work for the Catholic Church [both chuckling] We just had an issue at our school at the same time they had a mandatory mass. And so some of us got in a little bit From both Catholic and the traditional, Making them choose between traditional [lighter flicking] ROGER: There we go. Here you go, boy. Smudge yourself. -Smudge, yeah when you go you want to purify yourself off PETER: What is that? DARWIN: Sweet grass, -Yeah. -It's just similar to sage. I personally start my day off with this. -Every morning? -You just take it in like that? -I take it in, say a little short prayer thank the creator above for life. I'll give you one before you leave. I have a whole lot at the house. -You can take it home Where very you guys are off to your next -We're coming to your people. -Yeah, I'll probably see you -The ambulances? -Do you feel it's every dangerous out here? -No, I don't feel it's dangerous myself -Okay, sure. If I came out alone, problems or no? -Yeah, you'd be harassed by people like, Like Darwin was flying his drone Remember that? -If the cops were chasing us Chasing us from Rapid City to the res call into the tribal police and say, &quot;Hey, I'm in pursuit of this &quot;...just drove onto the reservation. and they'll either say yes or no. -Okay. But now there's a new compact that kind of got because before, the state troopers unless they're invited. PETER: How is your government here, Crow, they were telling me -Yeah, pretty much, all resses are. Basically what happens, and all they do And it's been that way. when they were fighting against is any government funding that comes in They're supposed to be helping the people are the ones related to those -So a lot of nepotism? Big time, all over reservations in America. Those are built I think in the '70s. Those are community centers, That's a new one, Pine Ridge (Vision). There's our Pizza Hut. -Yeah, Pizza Hut, Taco Johns. This is a coffee shop right here get yourself some coffee. DARWIN: That's the best coffee. Get yourself some coffee and donuts there. DARWIN: Cannabis right here. PETER: Cannabis? PETER: So tell me about res dogs. ROGER: There they are, right there. -And they sort of have their turf, right? -Don't feed 'em. You have a church here? -That's the old Catholic church actually. That's the old criminal investigation. I think they still might use it, I'll tell you a funny story about that. So I used to ride motorcycles -Oh yeah? I had my own club called Ghost Dance I had a couple students I taught them back in the '90s &quot;We were at a South Dakota state trooper ...and they asked us, 'are there &quot;And we told them no.&quot; and they were showing them [pchoo] with the pictures and there's and a bunch of Banditos But anyway they said, &quot;[pchoo] pictures &quot;...with the banditos.&quot; He goes, &quot;Yeah, you're in the state file, -So how does... &quot;Do people get free housing?&quot; Darwin, you're building, it's a mortgage. DARWIN: Mortgage, yeah. ROGER: So a lot of the houses, like some in the late '70s, early '80s. -Okay. -They're HUD houses who can afford to pay rent on them. -Okay. -But part of the treaty So unless you're working... If you're working you have to pay rent Tribal Housing Authority. -So the Tribal Housing Authority -Owns most of the majority of the houses 'cause they were HUD program houses. -Okay, so the individuals -There's home ownership houses. You pay to own them. -Yeah, like my mother's house But unless you buy you might not even have a house. That's why it could be living in that little trailer down there. -Yeah. -Is there a housing shortage -Oh yeah, definitely in housing. -Big time housing shortage. So now we're in Nebraska now, so... -This is the Nebraska line. -This was where they sold This little town right here. -No way. [doors close] Like these guys were millionaires. These guys were millionaires? Owned this, this was a bar, They quit selling hard liquor 'Cause they used to have bars but they had too many fights, People were dying up here. One of our Tribal presidents at the time, and so they would come, and they would &quot;Shut it down 'cause you're -So Pine Ridge is dry right now? -Yeah, it's a dry res, -How is alcoholism right now? -It's still bad 'cause now DARWIN: Bootleggers. -They're selling vodka But this place used to be booming, man People passed out in the streets here. Like laying right here all the time. Laying on the side of this building, -You used to ride up here -On horse, yeah from the res. I'd just go get alcohol right over there I barely was peaking over. &quot;What do you want?&quot; [chuckles] -So people were riding horseback then? -Do you drink anymore? ...38 years now. -Best thing you ever did or... -Oh yeah, yeah, I wouldn't be -That's the BIA, that building? And this is the tribal building. That's where our main tribal president... DARWIN: That's where we have -You guys have got -Actually the base player -No way. Comes down about every summer. -I just saw Pearl Jam last month. -Oh, did you? So the big bad Pine Ridge isn't as... You know, I'm a newbie but doesn't have the big bad feel to be honest. -Just another place. Bunch of wild Oglalas though. -Wild what? That's what we call ourselves. I always joke around, we became the mild Oglalas. [all laughing] -Why, the pandemic -Yeah. Made our leaders soft. -How so? Yeah, like a lot of my students still The youth need to find, you know, Find hope in this... something, you know? For me, going back and learning more and just keeping it simple, you know? This is the... and we call it the treaty school because and this is the old school. So this is all federal government property. That's why it's... Barbed wire over the fence. -It looked more like a prison. So I think they got sh*t for that. So they had to take the barbed wire off. Are we trying to keep kids in [both chuckling] -Where are these people working here? -All the houses here, teachers, or office workers. When I look in the paper, A lot of jobs but I think now Nobody wants to work 'cause they're And that's about ready to run out. -Still? -So it might be a silly question I notice a lot of places -Some people get big lease checks. They get lease money When they get a big check If it breaks down, well they'll just and wait for the next check [door closes] [door closes] PETER: &quot;We're not Indians &quot;We're older than both concepts.&quot; &quot;We're the people, we're the human beings.&quot; Okay, I got a question for you or Native to understand. 'Cause we're told a million things. It sort of goes against this, If we're to, like, refer to the overall... Like, not a specific tribe. Not like Lakota or Crow. What's the best way to say it? -I mean... and it depends on the tribe. -Depends on the tribe I think Indigenous is kind of When you start looking at the definition You know, indigenous of that land. You can say that about the Maori people -What about Indian? -Um... Now Indian, the older people are The reason also is especially treaty people, but each tribe prefers Like for us it's Oglala, I'm Oglala. -Oglala? But you wouldn't know that because Sioux, some people like, because they don't know Even our own tribe, They haven't changed our... You know, on the tribal buildings even though they now it's a derogatory name But we still, as a nation, -Okay. &quot;I'm not a Sioux, I'm a Lakota.&quot; I mean to me it's no big deal, [laughs] -No, it's just interesting younger people say another. -And then a lot of, let's say will say how you have to say it. -Yeah, yeah. -They look it up in &quot;Oh, I can be Native American, &quot;I can be Native American.&quot;, you know? I know they're really... &quot;Oh, you...&quot; they thought I was from India. -How'd you like India? It's, &quot;Oh, you're a red Indian, [laughs] You talk about poverty here. I mean not comparing it but I try to tell I say, &quot;You guys ain't' seen poverty.&quot; You wanna see poverty, go to India. Man, I was sitting there It's 4:00 in the morning I watched him get up, &quot;What's he doing?&quot; He grabs some papers, and he takes it down, and he has these little two bricks He lights it up, goes to the other place, and he's cooking up, he's heating I'm like, &quot;Damn.&quot; And then all of a sudden There's a tarp. I finally saw it, about six little kids And then his wife comes out. And I'm like, &quot;Whoa, there's -Yeah. I think everyone needs to, uh... Well, people that complain a lot One month there, -They don't have the state helping them. Like here, at least we get help from the... Some of our people get welfare, you know? They get food stamps. We have our commodity program (Bisonwi), that's the white buffalo. -What does that word mean? Bin is a buffalo, saw is white, In our spirituality, -Yeah. -That's kind of misnomer for that. We call it our sacred chalupa. Which is the pipe and it's We use it to pray. It was brought to us by a woman, It's a long story but just to She comes and then when she leaves So her name was So that was like if you wanna say, that would be like our savior. -That's the old jail. I was in there, that's the new... -You were in the old jail? -Oh yeah, I got thrown in Curfew violation, -Oh yeah? -Back in the day you couldn't be -Not after 10:00, no. Especially during the '70s You couldn't even be out after dark. -Okay, so under martial law here? -Yeah. -Yeah, in the 1970s, an American Indian The little hamlet of Wounded Knee. And that brought in the FBI, and the local goon squad, and it was basically a military action. First, they were unhappy The other reason was because of the racism and the killing of So they were basically here Um... We were asked to come. And so the American Indian movement was back then, They did sit-ins. They occupied, like an abbey in Wisconsin. It was an armed occupation basically. They took up arms against the tribe And so at that time there were armored personnel carriers. Actually on one of the buildings and the BIA building I showed you, There was a guy sitting up there I remember that, yeah. -Yeah, it was a war zone, man. -For how many years? -It was 71 days but it lasted 'Cause then it was Lakotas fighting Lakotas. -Okay. This is, uh... I'm trying to see This is one of my friends but he also has -So you've never lived anywhere else? You've always lived -No, um, my dad... My dad went out on that relocation program -Really? Okay, so what was -We called it the dislocation program. -Okay. -The government was trying to... [chuckles] ...train everybody on the reservation -Okay. -And then their thinking was after they got then they could take that land too. [laughs] In the '50s and '60s. -This is a new world for me so I'm... But I was under the impression all these lands were now pretty much but I'm learning There's a constant battle? Now they have the Indian Buyback Program. -So a bunch of landowners Well to the... supposedly to the tribe, -And they leave the reservation? They're still here. They just get the money A lot of the landowners Just kind of leased it out -So how does that make you guys feel? -[chuckling] I think it's atrocious. PETER: This is where you work? ROGER: Yeah, that's the church. PETER: That was ROGER: Yeah this is where... yeah. PETER: It's haunted? It looks haunted. This is where Who's this? Who's this? -How you doing, Father Klink? -How you doing? I just came back -Oh, how's Lynn doing? -You know, he's doing pretty good. They amputated down to -Oh, I didn't know that. And so they're feeling very good about it. He says he feels much better. -Okay. -Peter Klink. -Very nice to meet you. ROGER: So we're just PETER: I do different communities and I'm doing a series Starting at Black... In the sense if we can begin to realize If we can learn You know? Then diversity is something good. Otherwise diversity is So that building of an understanding is very important. -I think, so I'm glad you're doing -Thank you. -Yep. -Yeah, and humble. -Humble mutual respect. -Listen, I'll let you guys get... PETER: Okay, father. -Yeah, take care father. -(Nuksha). He's been here... He was a young scholastic Everybody knows him. Like he does... -Well respected father, been here for... PETER: So he doesn't deal with any issues No? The Lakota Catholics love him. Like when their family members die [door opens] -Oh, look at that light Such a beautiful time of year. [doors close] ROGER: This is a sweat lodge. PETER: Oh, it's a sweat lodge? -So this is where -Okay. Can I show inside? After the rocks are heated up and they're -Okay. -And people sit inside here and pray. Traditionally, they use but nowadays you can see But the wood frame is still made from -Okay. And they have four doors they're called. So they open the first door, and the person running the sweat lodge They sing the songs, Which are important. -It's just... I mean... They're from your heart. You're doing more... So we pray with the priests and stuff We're all praying the same thing, yeah. -Okay, the priest might go in here? Yeah, the priest We have nuns that are from India here. -Nuns from India coming here? -Yeah, oh yeah. -Some places are really strict. They won't allow any non-Lakotas in there. They won't allow any non, you know? Some will just have men only sweats too. It just depends on who's pouring the water. These rocks are Okay, 'cause they're You know, to someone And it comes from The first entity that came about. Gave up itself and it made himself real hard, So what we're doing We call them grandfathers, these rocks. We're bringing them back to life. And so when we take them And we pour that sacred water on them then it creates a steam And so what we're doing A lot of people that have and the first time they've &quot;Wow, that was amazing.&quot; you know? and &quot;I feel regenerated, And what... We close it off Grandfathers come in It's like... It's one of the oldest ceremonies -How often do you do this? -We used to go almost every weekend Lately, because of COVID we haven't been. Like I haven't been I need one actually. -How long to do you last in there? -It just depends on the people's prayers. Sometimes it gets too hot [chuckles] PETER: Is it safe to say Because you have the father up there and you have language immersion and you can practice your ceremonies. -Yep. -It wasn't that way Like, a lot of the Natives I mean not a lot of them, who live in the outskirts a lot of the people are more progressive. &quot;I'm American now.&quot; &quot;I gotta fit in with society.&quot; And then when they get out there American society. They don't want them out there, like, &quot;You're a brown skinned person, &quot;This is our city.&quot; &quot;Go back to your reservation.&quot; A lot of our grandmas and grandpas by what was happening in the cities. And all you're doing is get up every day, Not really living. I mean you still gotta do it today We can still grow our hair long The church, actually they're kind of under scrutiny right now. See this fill here? They did a looking for bodies But it's all up in the news and stuff about what the Catholic church did -In Canada recently, right? -Yeah, Canada and all America too. -Wherever they boarded Native kids, man. A lot of them never made it home. I mean one of them was They have a whole slew of graves there. There comes a point when you say, &quot;Well, how can you rise above that?&quot; And to prove to them You're not that drunken Indian that You know? You're educated and there's hope. They see hope in you and they... -So you were saying the younger kids are having -Because of what they see on social media. Even though they haven't lived it, yeah. When you should be more angry -Oh yeah, yeah. -Than a lot of the youth today. I mean some do to the point. Where they just... they know. The kids today will go off the reservation and they'll be discriminated against So a lot of them know that. -The border towns are pretty hardcore, huh? -Yeah, yeah. This is the hood I grew up in right here. -This is the hood? -So lots of crime these days or... -Yeah, this is where you hear It wasn't like that -So gunshots, how often? -Every night almost. Every night. That's actually the house -That one? -What about a house like this with the... If they're boarded up -They found meth? -And then they just... -Yeah, they gotta get 'em out. -Like that was a meth house? That's what I'm thinking. They gotta close down all the meth houses. Look at the res dogs there. [chuckles] -The res dogs, they'll come at you, huh? -This house right here, or this empty spot. -Yeah. -The propane tank blew up and yeah, it's not there no more. There was a duplex like that. There you go, That's a res car? [all giggling] -Here you go, here you go, get this one. That's a res trailer right there -Okay, okay, [all chuckling] But many good people living here. Just... Right? I mean... -Not everyone's making meth. -Yeah, not everybody. What's that say on there? [Roger chuckling] These houses over here, the basements, they would make swimming pools for us. When I was a kid we used to go swimming After a big rain storm. The structure looks fine -Yeah, probably 'cause of meth. And there's... That one burnt down. -Yeah, the one that was PETER: Yeah, a lot of plywood. So there's a housing crisis but a lot of -Boarded up 'cause of meth. Deep into the ridge now. This is called Crazy Horse housing unit. We'll zip around there real quick. -Yeah, it's a little nicer over here. -Stop the violence campaign, what's that? -You see those signs? -Oh sh*t, we didn't take you where some little kid was killed. What was he, three, four years old? Some little bitty guy. These houses are even newer back here. I remember when we used to play Because I stayed at my grandmas But there was quite a few drug dealers I don't know about now. Used to be a bootlegger -Bootlegging vodka or what? -Whatever, beer, whiskey, we used to get Calvert Canadian? I forget how to say it. -So Darwin, Night and day. That one has lights on inside. ROGER: Oh sh*t, that's right, I gotta go I forgot about her. PETER: Yeah? You go tame the spirits or? -Yeah, gotta go I'm an avid Harley rider. That's what grandpa's known for too. [shed door opens] -Oh, there we go. That's almost like a car. Thing's massive. [electric click and hum] [bike fails to start] -Uh-oh, battery's dead. I haven't ridden it in so long [bike fails to start] -Ugh. [starter continues] No. You guys hungry? Come in. -Thanks. ROGER: Enter the dragon. PETER: Hello. ROGER: This is Peter... My wife, Vita. AKA Thunder Night, Purple Thunder Night. PETER: Guys, thank you so much. Dar... -Glad to have you, Peter. -Good to meet you, Peter. -You bet. -Guys, I'm gonna end the video in a bit I want to mention Your wife has a channel? Navajo Man and Lakota Bae. Yeah, I'm gonna put those Got a few final thoughts Guys, I'm gonna meet you -Okay. -All right, thanks Very interesting look into a culture At least I did until about And I want to say with all of these videos. The people that bring me in, The local knowledge and the understanding. It's through their perspective just like all these videos So I try to show you the good, the bad, with a positive message at the end. So I just want to say I admire and respect It's humbling is very attractive these days I gotta say. So with that, this is part of Watch the other videos too and also Watch these guy's channels. They're on the ground. They know it better than anyone. So until the next one, take care. melodic acoustic guitar