We've seen a dramatic increase in the People are freed to think about the issues involved. And one of the things that it was built from the heart. [Electronic music] People that have really and the doers. You know, when I walked out everybody else in the industry. We watched Microsoft take ten years to catch The reason that they could catch up with it What is there left for you to do now that your company has gone public. Steve Jobs was one of the greatest Regardless of your thoughts or feelings on the impact Steve Jobs has had on the modern There may be no man who has both directly the first personal computer as we think of the mouse to the iPod, iPhone and iPad. As much as Jobs was already seen as a success and brilliance of the Apple I and Macintosh, the positive reception and clear commercial success. In fact, both computers were major factors company. Finally tonight, we focus on an Apple. Apple, the computer, not the fruit. The once high flying computer industry is Sculley and Jobs say Apple's future is with But nationwide, sales of the Macintosh and of the year. Many dealers are stuck with big their shelves. In 1983, Jobs was young, rich and seen as board. He wanted to be CEO but was denied And so Jobs would bring in what would turn in the then CEO of PepsiCo, John Sculley. said as: &quot;You want to sell sugar water for with me and change the world?&quot; With a quote like that It's not as if Sculley had much choice but Jobs was not a perfect man, far from it. In fact, he was very flawed and had a and extremely stubborn. He's been criticized to no end over the to fulfillment and he's passed away. But jobs suffered through constant that he simply piggybacked off the Steve Wozniak did the main engineering computer and so on and so forth. However, as it often is, the truth is much Jobs was brilliant. He was. And what one saw in a hobby, a side He had a vision. And it's that vision that society that's only been seen on the same Jobs knew that the pricing of the Macintosh And according to John Sculley, after a voluntarily leave Apple then and there, Jobs outright fired from Apple that day. And, I would wager that was likely closer to And so Jobs was forced to leave the company Sculley would lead Apple to what would At first, Apple didn't feel any different They continued making the innovations and color displays to Mac, making laptops with But what Sculley lacked was a vision of the true next step happening. The Newton was probably the most interesting being essentially a precursor to modern handwriting. But in practice the device was It didn't really work and the technology So after the Newton and also the expensive that wasn't as economically viable as Longtime Apple employee Michael Spindler three years before being replaced. In 1996, after acquisition, talks fell Philips, Gil Amelio came in to replace It would make immediate moves to acquire founded after being ousted by Apple. The company had made technically impressive expensive and not selling particularly well. Elmo saw the potential in getting the And while this move ultimately would save also be Elmo's own undoing. The June of 1997, an anonymous party sold the stock to drop to an all time low. And that weekend, Jobs would convince the Amelio. The man who sold that stock was The stock hitting that all time low likely Jobs's proposal. And there's no question that while the move a pretty great story. And the rest, as they say, is history. Mistakes we made. Some people will be pissed off. Some people will not know what they're better than where things were not very long And I think we're going to get there. I think Apple has a lot to contribute still. And I think the computer industry is still And I think Apple's the company that's made Easy and really approachable for people. And I think the world would be a, you know, Computer. And he's back to quickly clarify here in to the launch of the iPod, we are going to That being said, we will be going through year history. I'll have timestamps linked in ahead, feel free to do so. Personally, I find the entire history of I couldn't avoid talking about it today. And with this video being posted on the 20th appropriate. So back to, as I was saying, returned to the company. He himself had started. Jobs Now officially interim CEO would they were on the brink of demise and had Jobs would later go on to say that they were this was a man that, as his surname would He would terminate a number of projects he This included the failed Newton as well as Opendoc based Internet applications for Mac, and so on. Opendoc. The software framework these apps had been somewhat controversial among those still right move. Note that Apple had spent years to get rid of them. Not long after they employees were afraid of seeing jobs in the and their livelihood might be the next on Another big aspect of Apple that Jobs axe clones. Though little known Apple had a very seven that allowed computer companies to their own hardware with licensed reference And then they could use Mac OS seven. Essentially, Apple was allowing other the equivalent of a hackintosh today, except genuine companies. These weren't terribly which was a completely different hardware. But there was still a number of way around mid 1997. Power Computing and Umax were the biggest Apple would buy out the core assets of power let Umax continue selling their own thousand dollar offerings, particularly Areas where Apple struggled Umax still had expire the July of 1998 and Umax would then of personal computers. Just an obscure kind of interesting piece of All in all, there were a total of 75 of including a few from Motorola. Beyond these changes, jobs would also bring his old rival and CEO of the now absolutely Gates and Microsoft would invest $150 million Ironically enough, though, with jobs at the have been able to steer the company to The crowd booed Gates when he appeared on the help they could get. And it's true. It's really difficult to financial situation truly was. Back in 97, Apple was kind of seen like previous success and then did all it could technology just kept moving on. Sure, BlackBerry still exists today, but can It was similar for Apple. It was so bad that the Dell CEO and founder Jobs's shoes, he'd shut the company down and But as we very well all know, Jobs was able a level never seen before, nor since aided discovering the brilliance of Jony Ive and actually finally well-designed computers decades and into the future. Color, color and more color was coming in relevant again. This is iMac. This is iMac. The whole thing is You can see into it. It's so cool. This is incredible compared to anything else It looks like it's from another planet. 1998 was the year of iMac, a computer unlike It had an appeal broader than just the It was cool. It was fun. It was iMac specifically. It's now known as the iMac, G3, the G3 title Apple was using at the time the computer We weren't quite to the Mac OS ten days yet Hearkening back to the original Macintosh, behind the 15 inch CRT display and Apple Unlike practically any and every computer, and translucent plastic, making the the user. This was huge for the time. Don't forget that those tempered glass a thing. In 1998, computer manufacturers the office. You don't want things looking a lot of people and usually a pretty small Everything is official, it's uniform. And when they did try to appeal to the home, look as unassuming and as subtle as People thought of computers as these very one at that. So it shouldn't look like a But Jobs and Johnny, I flipped that whole And the world of design is much better for Even if Apple would move on from the look radically changed the way computers were This was 1998 and at that time there were always included on computers. But if the iMac was supposed to be simple Internet, then condensing the complicated computer was a very smart way to make things Even if this wouldn't be popular among So the iMac would abandon previous Macintosh omission with no floppy drive, many were not That was a big deal at the time. But Apple would argue that compact disks, format obsolete. And they were right. They were also right to with two USB ports, USB still being a The keyboard also had two USB ports on it connecting things to the computer. The omission of the floppy drive could be recent years, but that would be skipping And I suppose we're not really here just to Apple. While the iMac was giving Apple an more, they were still not nearly as or would be in the future. The computers were cool, but competing with especially when there was a ridiculously prices that would stretch significantly their products for. Apple had never been Don't forget, this is what they were. They built computers and that's all they If they wanted some form of dominance, once best machines and not even just the best reason to buy them. The new look and naming scheme was all a giving Macs and especially that iMac a sense And you actually name another computer from actually come up with the title iMac. Originally he was thinking along the lines hindsight, though, in all fairness, the sticking around in the naming schemes. An Apple executive within their ad agency because the computer was meant to be so Apple has also stated that the I stands for really matter as the I name would really A brand marker like no other to the point and onwards would be labeled the I The first iMac was an absolute hit and afloat. Over the next couple of years. 800,000 units were sold in the first five likely hadn't seen since the days of the Clearly this whole iMac branding was working The next product to receive the I in its 1999 one of the most unique looking laptops It tried to recapture the imac's design and and it certainly succeeded from a design The colors, curvy looks and upside down you when you close the machine all gave an extremely clunky, gray and boring world of Jobs. Always loved to position Apple as the Early Apple ads wouldn't hold back in IBM with the 1984 ad, of course, being commercials ever to play on television, Super Bowl. That ad was captivating and 1980s. And with jobs returning in 97, there breaking the mediocrity of the status quo. And that would be the theme behind marketing The slogan they would feature in their ads, and unfortunately, I can't play it due to seen the ad before. It goes, Here's to the crazy ones the round pegs and the square holes. There was such an inspiring feel from these Siltanen and narrated originally by Richard with Jobs himself narrating That one's This ad campaign involved these beautiful heroes and innovators of the 20th century, Martin Luther King, Pablo Picasso and Amelia There is also a version that included kind of funny, only airing once during the The commercials all conveyed a feeling of humanity has ever had to offer, even if it an Apple computer. But hey, advertisements are always aiming to You might as well make it with an inspiring And that's exactly what Apple and Steve Jobs Jobs is involvement with the ad is a bit fit his rebellious demeanor that he had The ad campaign and think different slogan And it's also thought to be a direct that's it? Just think. Jobs had also insisted on using the word rejecting the originally suggested think And that makes sense. It wasn't think differently. It was think different. That different represented Apple as a brand ridiculously short amount of time. The launch of iMac gave this sense of a new nostalgia element, which was huge as those would be in a position where they could they gone to Windows. That introduction of the iMac featuring the It's just perfect. A direct callback to the first Macintosh In 1999, a year after the introduction of iconic Rainbow logo, moving to the much more along with this Aqua themed Apple logo that conjunction with the monochrome logo until The Rainbow Technicolor theme was always very We had the more modern design element of of the century. While completely irrelevant while researching, I discovered that Steve Yeah, that Gap, the clothing brand. And he served from 1999 to 2002. The man had his hand in so many cookie jars Don't forget, he was also the pushing force the first place with him co-founding Pixar, computer animated film in Toy Story. But I digress. Besides the standout additions of the iMac huge product releases from 97 to 2000. This whole pre iPod era was very important They needed all this to happen, to put them iPod. The Macworld Expo in 2000 would see from his title. Now the full permanent CEO, would become an entire ecosystem unlike any Steve Jobs had a vision, and as time kept to fruition. Enough technology, usually from fairly something that's a quantum leap forward All of a sudden you start to sense things where this is now possible. We see at Apple one of the things we've intersection of of technology and You know, the whole computer industry wants focus on the technology. But we think there's a whole other side to things? And so that's that's I think what we to be. That is where we want to be. And we are introducing a. Brought of today that takes us exactly And that product is called iPod. I haven't had one right here in my pocket. In fact. There it is right there. The turn of the millennium brought with it a but in society and the world at large. You can't look at the year of 2001 without The thousands of lives lost, as well as the itself. The ripple effects throughout single event, the world was quickly technological revolution unseen and unheard waited enough for this video to start Apple would take the baby steps towards see the iPod itself quite yet. There is a music revolution happening right Revolution is digital music on computers. But we're going to change all this today As I mentioned, we're late to this party and Itunes would launch a media player software called the World's best and easiest to use Itunes itself had actually existed based around a program called Soundjam MP Apple purchased the program in 2000 and ability to burn CDs before packaging it into We'll get to Mac OS ten, but it would come follow, even coming bundled with the OS. This was coming at a pivotal time for Apple quarterly loss since Steve Jobs had rejoined Luckily, Jobs had about half a dozen aces up To turn that around, Mac OS ten would come And of course, iTunes was bundled in as Jobs It's worth noting that Apple was a bit Jukebox software seemed to be a dime a best aspects of them and then combine them It looked better and it was easier to use actually watched the event. He talks about They would do things like throttle your disk money in order to unlock the full kind of familiar to how a lot of things But iTunes was free. It changed everything, and the only thing on Mac. 98 had been a crucial year for Apple Was shaping up to be just as significant and certain MP3 player coming October. Although even without that, I think you 2001 was more important than 98 as Apple software the tech industry has ever seen. As they went from Mac OS nine to Mac OS ten, today, just heavily revised and improved as The Mac OS nine was the ninth major release directly descending from their very first the time simply called System one. Mac OS wasn't actually called Mac OS until with 1991 System seven being the main Mac OS eight came out, Mac OS eight on its expect, given it took six years bringing Apple roughly on par with what you time. Didn't use computers in the 90s. I'm sure there were lots of pros to Windows But regardless, Apple was saving their best Mac OS eight would sell 1.2 million copies time when Apple was barely treading water. As we thoroughly established, Mac OS nine put an emphasis on Internet capabilities, Apple's now very popular iMac literally But the OS itself was very familiar in looks changes coming with Mac OS 10.0, whereas you Roman numeral like a certain phone that We've had that radical redesign when the we all remember how big a deal that was back But that was nothing. This was Mac OS nine. Yeah, it looks old, very 80s, 90s. And then here's Mac OS 10.0 codenamed Not only does it look stunningly modern in the Aqua interface is very much how Mac OS it being much flatter and having a ton of But the dock at the bottom and the Apple OS Monterey. Of course, the newest version. Sure, the Dock and menu bar were technically modernized it on an unprecedented level. Now not only did computers look cool, but so quickly re-establishing their brand of all these new releases, along with the that we would come to know as iLife. These included iMovie, iPhoto and DVD, all notable lack of anything to do with music, coming into the picture. Jobs had a vision of turning Macs into this all centered around Mac. If that sounds familiar, it should, because And Apple didn't stop here. The May of 2001, Steve Jobs would announce retail stores across the United States, computers, but also various other tech What kind of products, you ask? Well, you know, pretty typical stuff like MP3 players. It was around this time that Mac G4 Cube. Something that is only loosely relevant to But I want to mention it because it's one of It looked amazing. Announced July 2000, but 150,000 units over the first year until it This Mac was really one of Jobs's only When he came back, though, reportedly he was going to sell for. And it's too bad because expensive for not a whole lot of power. That's the downside of having so little computers like this weren't really much of a have today. Of course it would be and it would set a precedent for a bit more. Thanks to the addition of capacitive touch, push in or anything and the cube would just This was the first time Apple used this tech little later. Also in May, the new iBook was clamshell design to a much more recognizable simply in white polycarbonate plastic apple this and we'll see that shortly. That month, the first ever retail store for Washington, DC. And this little video here a neat piece of history. Still, though, as a consumer, it might have dedicated to like a single computer. Well, a single brand of computers. Sure, it's cool and nice to be able to see them out. But lots of stores would have computers to try. What people didn't know quite yet is that industry altogether and one that would start everything they had ever done before. I started the company with Steve Wozniak and So there's a definite place in my heart for I'm drawing a salary of, I think, a dollar I very much want to see Apple get turned Ipod development on the project began only Steve Jobs. This was around the time in the blowing up, particularly thanks to a new You may have heard of it. It rose to the top small storage size and stellar audio This made digital music widely accessible, sharing sites, ones dedicated to music such However, even with piracy being an issue, format. Moving on. In 1999, Steve Jobs would discover the not unlike USB that had been developed in At the end of the century. They began actually be used all the way up until 2011 standard for Apple. Early on, FireWire had some significant faster transfer speeds and a speed that was you would get more optimal performance. It was held especially in high regard by And armed with this information, Jobs had perfect for people moving video over from video on iMovie. Everything was supposed to connect. He was creating this. System. And while it was certainly a very fruition. Both the rise in the music player, which is why, of course, they bought 2001. But throughout the whole process, current market of portable music players, words crap. The issue is there was no real yet, with there basically being four options The era of Walkman was essentially over, and required while CDs. These CDs with their uncompressed audio only There were players that utilized flash they would only hold about 15 songs as well, Then there was also MP3 CD players, which because of MP3, but they were more expensive awkward machine with the CD spinning inside The best option may have been players that But they were big, they were clunky, the navigate. They also would connect to your awful speeds and would take forever when it way and seeing that the current market have Apple focus on the creation of its own with their own software, which would ideally Jon Rubinstein was the senior VP of Hardware It was around this time near the end of Steve Jobs and Rubinstein just happened to Rubinstein would go to what was simply a large supplier for Apple and making And near the end of his visit, he was shown only 1.8in in diameter, much smaller than current iterations of those portable jukebox Toshiba had developed this drive but for. They were thinking maybe they could put This was a huge leap forward in technology, dots to give a usefulness for it. And as soon as Rubinstein saw it, he did the hotel that he knew exactly how to build thing to do it a $10 million check. Just normal stuff you would ask for from I think Steve Jobs would give the go ahead on ready to be sold for Christmas that year, the preparation needed for marketing. And of course, the announcement six months player ever made. No problem, right? Well, as it so happens, require many man hours to make it happen. But Apple employees were swamped with to turn to outside help. And it just so happens he was recommended Tony Fidel was a former executive from the late 90s. He was working on a similar an MP3 stereo player. He had been pitching his ideas to multiple John Rubinstein gave him a call while he was couldn't tell him what the project was yet, And this was Apple, so his interest piqued. Fidel went to see him. Fidel was somewhat skeptical of the entire the offer of an eight week contract to anything that would be needed and how it At the end, he would report to jobs and He had eventually come up with a simple in your pocket. There was a couple other the one that would get jobs excited. The progress was compounded with Phil scroll wheel, which made it easy to move wheel in the center of the device. The idea was come up with when Schiller was frustrated by the navigation system. You would have to hit these arrow buttons need to press anything. It was extremely easy and intuitive, which At the end of it all, we would get the iPod Today, through the whole process of kept pushing the device to be simple and Don't do too much with it. This is a music device and that's it. That's actually why there's no off button. For example, simply press any button and it design, at least when it came to the vast And if you do need to fully shut it down, The iPod's overall design was, of course, like many of Apple's other upcoming products There was also this clearcoat layer above it, sideways. It's quite something. The casing as a whole was made up of only stainless steel back stainless steel on the An odd decision. It looked absolutely scratched and dented so easily and was also But it was thin and it was strong and it's Now, of course, it's hard to imagine an iPod iconic design element. Holding the iPod in hand exactly 20 years This is a device that was just brilliantly players were pretty much hot garbage. This one is so good that I could honestly It's thick and a bit chunky, but not by any come out. And it's still nowhere near big It fits in both the hand and the pocket. That said, looking even somewhat closely For one thing, on the back under the Apple apple used called Garamond before switching have this. It's really cool. Just something you don't see on any newer It feels so out of place to see this on a On the top of the iPod, there are two ports That would be the hold slider, which when to any inputs on the device. This is perfect for when you're putting the dialing on phones. It would have been very easy to make The headphone jack, of course, the long used surely never die. And to the left of it is the FireWire port, from FireWire 800, which requires a later. There's nothing on the bottom of the get quite interesting. The huge scroll wheels and buttons brilliant and so nice to use. It was honestly the best design I think they they had at the time. And the scroll wheel This is the only iPod that had an actual The rest of them don't move around like And while it makes sense to move on from it love messing with it and I wish it had stuck That display shows the age perhaps better the back. It's a monochrome LCD similar to to be able to see what was on the screen, you could turn on the backlight for a short But what's on the display feels about as operating system that's navigated by The battery life had been rated to last ten from 2001, especially given how many songs And initially there was only a single I have here. March 2002. A ten gigabyte model would come out costing The five gig model had cost 399, which Internet, $399 in 2001 adjusts to about 620 Maybe that doesn't sound unreasonable, given time, portable music was pretty crappy, but The iPod costing so much money comparatively a stellar product, and this effect was was incompatible with Windows computers. You needed a mac and in particular iTunes to place. Without that, you'd essentially have There was an immediate uproar from critics and even the size. Many felt that the device didn't understand the advantages it came Sure, comparing it to flash storage based smaller and much more portable, but they storage. Compare that to five gigs, and Around this time, lots of things were still iPod. Ipod was always a go big or go home It was pricey, but it was also so far ahead don't think it was even apparent just how price seemed hefty at first glance. $400 for a music player. Are you nuts? And those reactions were given the absolutely legendary legacy this 125,000 iPods were sold by the end of 2001. Not a small number, to be sure. But considering the scale of iPods eventual If you were one of those who were skeptical actually made the right decision because it iPod to get even better with the second on July 17th, 2002. From the front, the iPod two looked nearly actually changed up quite a few elements in The top of the device now was included in was kind of plastic on the top. The second gen also had the hold slider get FireWire port now had a cover. The bottom of the device is still void of iPod everything looks the same except we now Modern Apple font. But back to the front, the screen didn't monochrome with of course the backlight. The scroll wheel, on the other hand, may It's subtle, but it's a bit flatter on the because it's not really so much a scroll If you remember, I took the time to mention Power Mac G4 Cube and that's exactly what It's touch sensitive, it reacts to your doesn't move at all. Unlike the first gen This was pretty darn cool tech for the time. Out of all the fairly incremental changes, brought was Windows Support bundling the Musicmatch, which Apple partnered with, to from your PC. This was such a necessary As before, you were really just out of luck Well, Jobs had hoped that the iPod would What I think mostly happened is it just Now, if you already had a mac, sure. Maybe you would go out and buy the already But if you didn't have a mac, not only do you also have to buy a much more expensive Not hard to see the problem and Windows All this, though, in all fairness, at this that wasn't terribly common for PCs. Apple would continue selling the first gen reduced price of $300. So there was a decent budget option for bit of money. At $399, you would get the And then there was also a 20 gig model for board. And it meant even more songs in your and if it wasn't or you were getting bored wait long for something. Better get your iPod iPods here. I sell iPods at Dodger games, too. And then you got to pass them down kind of I've got about 1500 in the trunk of my car. I'm usually shirtless just for effect. The money just starts flowing in. You can listen to all these songs. I say at least over 50 songs. I'm not quite sure the amount. I think it's like 2 million songs. My name is Will Ferrell and I'm a porn On April 29th, 2003, Apple announced a drastic revamp yet. It is also, without a doubt the least iPod And it's pretty clear why from the get go the wheel, but instead being above it, This was due to Apple fully moving over to These buttons don't push in whatsoever. Just react to your touch. They are slightly sunk into the plastic so without looking at the device. But it's definitely different and I'm not It was controversial. It's interesting in like an iPod design in my opinion. The rest of the iPod, though, will feel more the device, which was a lot nicer than the back. The iPod looked the same, although it Now, I do really love the stainless steel It's nice to have a consistent design I feel like that's not very common when it product. The top of the device will look a The hold slider has gotten quite a bit jack as well as this very small little port This was for wired remote connectors. Previously on iPod. There was this little metal ring around the separate altogether. It's a bit funky. The iPod remote itself had iPod and came with the higher capacity It would plug into the headphone jack and device itself. So you could pass through the Eventually it would be available to buy on Certainly a very weird piece of apple tech for this video and being very confused on So there's no FireWire port and turning to why with a port that should probably look That's right. 2003 marks the introduction of the same one they would use in their decade. A big reason for it was the included Now, you could simply plop the iPod down and computer easier than ever. You could also connect the dock via USB, compatible PCs as again FireWire hadn't been Turning back to the front of the device, this kind of like pinky orange color, which While the design, as I said, isn't one that really do like it and it feels like kind of original. Designs and the upcoming newer My only real complaint is there's no tactile You press it and nothing happens. There's no click. It works, but it's not The lineup now had a ten gigabyte iPod, and 30 gigs for 4.99, and 30 gigs could hold possible only a year and a half prior. The starting price of $300 was a major mainstream. That wasn't so unreasonable, The true upgrade from all this really had instead what came along with it? Itunes. We've had incredible success with Over 20 million copies of iTunes has been Today we've got 200,000 tracks. We're loading in tracks every single day. This is going to keep on growing and growing of these rights you can buy for $0.99 per The iTunes Music Store. Finally, there is an easy to use storefront to find practically any song and of $0.99 per track or $10 per album. This was long before the days of Spotify, so And even today they're still similar. If you actually purchase music from the Apple Music one week into the iTunes music of 200,000 songs, Apple sold a million songs There was only one problem. Itunes was still Mac only. And this feature a lot of people thought we Today we are announcing that the second Mac, but it runs on Windows, too. Itunes for Windows is probably the best When we set our mind to something, we go all it. September 2003, Apple announced that it had store already, and a month later that store came to Windows Musicmatch support was iPod just couldn't be stopped. The era of Apple from 2001 to 2003 was a history. Yeah, another one. You can definitely bring it down to certain would change forever. But truly not since seemingly had such an impact in such a short it didn't quite feel like it. After all, Apple's success with the iPod did something different. It didn't just affect the tech world. It also massively affected another industry, Itunes and the iTunes store is commonly music retailers as they used to exist. And I think while it would have happened true that iTunes was kind of a catalyst for It was a massive change and I don't think companies, as being the ones to change the Don't forget, they were on the verge of They went from that to leading the charge in again. Apple did what Apple does best enter went ahead and made something so far ahead And all in all, this was the first era of From 2001 to 2003, we only saw those three thrilled with the device, seeing how quickly Having an iPod was cool. It was fashionable. Having those apple status symbol. And Apple was only just prepared to take their next leap forward No longer was Apple Computer solely about successful than they were because of it. In California's Silicon Valley, time seems to example. My hope is in our lifetimes we can make a You're already seeing it in society now. People are becoming more and more familiar devices. That's changing things. Culturally, it's a step along the way. 2004 to 2006 was the golden age of iPod or A time where iPod had already been nowhere for Apple to go but up. And to be sure, there was a cost to it. There was this magical charm and creativity. Apple had their computers coming at the They seemed willing to experiment with the cube, even that next iMac with its gorgeous But when iPod hit, Apple knew they had found to punch it, unifying their lineup in glossy iBook, I showed all matching the theme of the right choice, going all in with a full While this was big for Apple, so was the With 25 million songs sold in the first create its own market. One completely focused on portable music and monopoly on it. Mp3 players didn't exist so much as iPod Too many MP3 players were known as just Apple had positioned themselves perfectly in yet and by a long shot. But even if 2004 was going to be their would prove to be the smallest, perhaps even And so let's take a look at this. It's got 16 times the storage. It holds 16 times the music. It's half the thickness and it's 50 bucks You get 940 more songs for $50. So the iPod mini, what's it look like? Well, this is the iPod and it's pretty It's even smaller and it's pretty stunning. The iPod Mini was the first variation of the announcing that it had created a hard drive in the iPod, meaning theoretically it would with the flash storage players that still Those, of course, being lighter and smaller. And that's exactly what would happen with 2004, albeit with a Hitachi drive the same of four gigabytes, this was a significantly it was at the fairly reasonable price of There was more to the iPod Mini than first great too. Ipod was finally colorful, quickly become iconic with the options of I myself, of course, have the gold one here, iPhone 5S to me, except, you know, The colors were cool, but they weren't What was beyond guess? The hard drive was the redesigned Clickwheel edge that it would forever be remembered as The Clickwheel took the touch sensitivity of complaints with that device. I didn't like that the buttons have moved and feedback upon pushing the buttons. But this scroll wheel not only could be clicked, pushing down along the sides, the first and second iPods. But this time it was on the wheel itself. The click wheel would stick around taken over and for good reason. With it being a simple, satisfying and entire music library, The rest of the iPod models, but it was otherwise pretty similar The bottom of the device had the same 30 pin FireWire connections. The top had the headphone jack that remote nothing too crazy. Turning back to the front ones being monochrome and having a backlight Battery life for this iPod was about the This was a great device and it felt generation in a good few ways. And the only real downside was that it just upstaged by themselves. On July 19th, 2004, Apple would officially fourth generation, and the first of what I it came to design the Clickwheel was here, or 40GB coming in at 299 or 399 The battery remained the same from the third efficient. So you had 12 hours of life, a the device. Again, we have the whole toggle the bottom, the 30 pin charging port that the dock as a middleman. This was all in all a pretty decent upgrade. We still have that same monochrome display Luckily, Apple wouldn't wait long to fix The iPod photo was next in the line of iPods fourth generation at the end of October As the suffix photo would imply, the iPod Jpeg and PNG that could be transferred over color LCD on iPod and a higher resolution on 2, 20 by 176. This with the backlight made for an period and being able to show photos off on unheard of beyond, I guess, actual laptops well as, you know, actual digital cameras. The iPod photo came in 40 or 60 gigs at 499 And the monochrome iPod fourth Gen would This was a genuinely separate model, at been at least a little bit confusing for Why the fourth gen wasn't just this new iPod At the beginning of 2004, there was only one were three iPods, the fourth gen iPod, the Oh, and there was also an extremely obscure You may never have heard of the iPod. These are a bit rarer being discontinued mid But basically Hewlett-Packard in early 2004 be sold by HP with HP's own branding. And when I say branding, I mean this little And while originally there was supposed to ever happened. They sold an iPod, mini iPod to shortly. And apparently, despite being repair them at their stores, which is just needlessly semantic. Regardless. Just an interesting tidbit. And hey, why not throw another one in while Actually, this one is a bit more Maybe when the iPod photo was announced the edition unveiled, specifically the first U2 It featured a full black plastic front and band members etched onto the back of the There would be multiple renditions of the U2 generations. And this was the first mainline device. However, this wasn't the iPod photo. It was identical to the fourth generation more than the standard iPod with a few fans of the band and those who are a fan of Unfortunately, there was one more event in We should probably mention it was the first become public. He had been diagnosed with chose to email the employees of Apple, He had, however, undergone a successful Great news at the time from the man who sudden success. 2004 marked a point where iPod was more that was cheaper with more personality and The fourth generation brought the clickwheel The iPod photo brought that beautiful, The iTunes Music Store was the only avoid resorting to illegal downloads. And it was so much better than any other And with iTunes being on Windows now, there potential buyers for iPod as they wouldn't order to use the digital sensation. They also could go and check out the device locations, places that no doubt were much Now, thanks to the hot new device. Actor Will Smith was quoted in 2004 saying a bold claim to be sure. And it's clear he had no idea of the But for the time being, 2004 was the year of their 10th million iPod with 4.5 million of 8.2 million in the whole of 2004. Remember June 2003, they had sold their If you thought 2004 was busy, you'd be But Apple knew to make hay while the sun Come 2005, getting things started off with a And so today we are introducing. The iPod Shuffle and this is what it looks It's unbelievable. The iPod Shuffle was Apple's first foray into It kind of looks like an oversized stick of And if you thought that you'd be more bottom here is removable, revealing a USB your. Pewter for charging and syncing the You can even set aside some internal storage hilarious. And in fact genuinely useful for users in 2005, even if lot of storage available and there wasn't but it didn't really need to have any more gigabyte, as the name would suggest. The iPod Shuffle wasn't really meant to Apple had noticed that the shuffle feature and so they felt like it made sense to build And that shuffle was very successful thanks price tag as it started at $99. The design of the shuffle was pretty out before it. And when the cap is on, it kind And the cap, there's actually a lanyard talking about the device. And I actually have it here. It's pretty cool and convenient. This was the iPod for people on the go. Perfect for going on a run or to the gym introduced, such as a waterproof case and an The back to the design again, we don't have just a play pause button volume up and Considering you can only put so many songs on you need. Sure, it might be super annoying not what the shuffle was for. If you wanted to show off your library, a The headphone jack is on the top of the slider with three basic options off on loop Underneath is an indicator for the battery And that's about it. Plain, simple and The shuffle was a fantastic move on Apple's customers that wouldn't have ever been able Otherwise, $99 was genuinely achievable for And the sales reflected that. With this generation's peak having a 100,000 Apple fans would have to wait an entire event, featuring a minor revision to the as the addition of the second generation generation, but more refined. There was now a six gigabyte model along been extended to 18 hours from the age of Design wise, the new one looked essentially brighter color options and dropping the gold If it helps, I like it for the second mini. Here I have green and you'll notice that the match the color of the device. Just a really nice touch. This was an altogether pretty basic update iPod mini line. It's interesting because every other iPod the Mini. And we'll be finding out why This device still has some life today, And it's pretty common to see projects storage, just like people do with iPod for the first iPod Mini. I've always been pretty common There's even some kind of form of really cool to see a whole community come left in the dust so soon while the iPod Mini time Apple stepped out of their comfort zone altogether, but actually giving color from in their recent years. June 2005, Apple finally made some changes to done the year prior. The iPod photo was merged with the regular The 30 gig model they had was dropped and hence why it would often be referred to as There were only 20 and 60 gig options at iPod that was also given the color display, And yet these would all be discontinued that But first, another iPod was announced in Mia. Well, now we're going to replace the An entire new ground up design. And it's called the iPod Nano. The iPod Nano is the biggest revolution Now, this pocket's been the one that your The iPod and the iPod mini fit great in Do you ever wonder what this pocket's for? I've always wondered that. Well, now we know. Because this. Is the new iPod now. Say goodbye to the iPod Mini that like, just We have the iPod Nano now. The iPod Nano completely replaced the Mini thus being able to get significantly It had a full color display and initially there was a single gigabyte option added in And flash storage is of course faster than a The design here was simple being long and that hadn't been on the iPod Mini as well as there was only two colors and white or And the iPod Nano, sure enough, would be an It was small, it was more affordable. It had that color screen. However, not all was perfect With the Nano, absurdly easily to the point that there was And believe it or not, Apple would actually Yeah, five years later, and we're not stuck it in your pocket with your keys. Apparently it was claimed that even a Apple would settle, promising 15 to $25 for user had received the protective slip case That may not sound like a lot of money, and But as a lump sum, Apple had paid $22.5 Certainly chump change for them, but a The gift that keeps on giving. There was also an eventual recall of the September of 2005 to December 2006. This was due to a battery overheating issue, 2011, which is kind of hilariously late. The iPod Nano might be the only memorable it was the only thing that happened. There was also the announcement of the first compatible cell phone, the Motorola Rokr get go, and Jobs apparently was furious with stage to talk about it. We won't cover today because this video is we'll look at it in a future video because And with that out of the way, only one more The fifth generation iPod, also known as the 2005. It featured yet another redesign, its clickwheel and moving back to the flat first time, there was now a new color in Plastic does have its drawbacks, and like easily, but it still looks fantastic in my And in the very least, there's no question had been seen thus far. The top of the iPod showed the four pin toggle and the headphone jack, of course, Near the corners, the bottom holds the 30 It was also significant, thinner and lighter storage and actually smaller clickwheel as The fifth generation's display was also 240, a very good number for a device like As said, this generation is often referred introduced video playback for the first While this screen is tiny, in retrospect, it And being able to purchase movies and shows music was yet just another step in the ever The 30 gig model was 2.99 and the 60 was There wasn't a U2 edition quite yet, but it And so that wrapped up 2005, a big milestone But then again, pretty much every year at iPod. At Macworld Expo, January 2006, Steve million iPods at this point, and 850 million music store. That's how fast iPods were The exponential growth had been absolutely slowing down yet. That said, 2006 did seem the crazy amount of models that had come out However, in September there were a wide And before we get to that, just a brief, Remote and Accessory announced that Macworld to receive FM radio signals just kind of And essentially the successor to that But September 2006, if you've ever looked refurbishing, you've likely come across the And that's what this was being an internal didn't deem worthy of being a full Newer, the screen got up to 60% brighter and device more powerful. And. Allowing a search function to be added Storage was also bumped up and prices were $250 and the now 80 gig iPod at 350. And then, of course, there was yet another Can't miss out on that and its beautiful red The iPod 5.5 is an extremely sought after in number as the 2005 one. But you can distinguish if it's the newer option available. The main reason this enthusiasts is sound quality. It uses a Wolfson DAC, the last one, to be The 2005 model also has that. But of course, the other improvements with better. All in all, it does feel a little these things to a full new generation. But with tech moving so quickly, I will say they were offering the best possible product before. It definitely didn't have to do Perhaps this was a response in the rise of ultimately not a lot would come of it. The Zune from Microsoft is probably the most not, the first one didn't even come out I'm not going to get into Zune. I think it would be worthy of its own video. But Microsoft was just way too late to the themselves as the king of the portable music Also announced at this event was the new iPod The second generation was a complete making the device absurdly small in this on the back. And, as Apple's tagline ever. Initially, the shuffle was extremely There was only one option being silver with about it. Apple claimed this was the world's at this point it probably was. It's tiny to the point that there's no 30 Instead, you would both charge and sync the It was a bit strange and not nearly as just being a flash drive, but it more than it actually still worked for file storage if The second generation iPod Nano was a pretty scratching of the year prior as well as a been sorely lacking since the iPod Mini. Aluminum was more and more becoming standard like the way to go. It was durable, visually variety of colors of which the Nano had a The two gig model only came in silver four eight gigs in black. The display was more vibrant and 40% The battery got a huge upgrade going from 14 functionality added a month later. In October, the iPod Nano would get an all In fact, being the first product, red iPod money to combat Aids in Africa. Every purchase of a product red device has a noble endeavor, and one that almost didn't Apparently it took some convincing to get the brand name by having a whole bunch of But eventually it still ended up happening. And it exists today in a wide number of But we'll get to that at the beginning of Starting at 2004, there was a single iPod, By the end of 2006, there not only had been discontinued being, of course, the iPod of the original iPod, two generations of a generations of another new iPod, the iPod And then, of course, a ridiculous amount of Apple was taking full advantage of their were reading it up, with there now being a Apple Computer's main selling point was no remotely doubted them may have finally been would send out an email to his employees perfect at predicting the future. Based on today's stock market close, Apple Stocks go up and down and things may be worth a moment of reflection today. Steve, This simple message perfectly showed a man who was so driven, brilliant and those who had wronged him. As you might remember, Michael Dell many should give up on Apple completely and shut And some say that Dell still has his foot in This video is long, so it might have felt And if it did, it's because the glory days It really didn't last. And that's not the iPods fault. It was a fantastic device. It did one thing and it did that one thing But in a world where people were more and just one thing, but everything, you even saw features like being able to display photos Giving it more versatility than ever before. The iPod's glory days were nearing their but instead because Apple was about to take company history and they would never have Every once in a while, a revolutionary The Mac changed the whole computer industry the first time. The iPod changed the way we industry. I think the iPhone may really I think this is where the world is going. Today, Apple is going to reinvent the phone 2007 was the beginning of the end for iPod, Steve Jobs came out on January 9th at the announcements. Apple Computer was officially direction as Mac was no longer their The first Apple TV was also unveiled, and announce the first ever iPhone. You can't even begin to describe how massive in history, this video has already ended up it to. And so I won't take any more time You know the story of iPhone, not the first multi-touch display that was easy and Repeating what Apple had done with iPod only Enter a small market that already existed then blow away the competition utterly and While iPhone was a major technological would also end up being the demise of decade. And it's not hard to guess why, but After the iPhone was announced, everything changed in the iPod line until September The only even slightly noteworthy revision colors for the first time. And yet at the event in September, there for iPod Shuffle. January 2007, the new colors had been pink, silver. And then later that year, the new and product red with those previous colors Next up on the chopping block, you had the The third generation was a complete It was short, wide and heavier with a larger 240, there was a new user interface support There was video playback. The battery life was supposed to last for 24 video. That design is interesting. It's funny because it's like Apple can't these iPods. They went back to the stainless plate and then the whole toggle got a lot And it's important to emphasize how good It was the highest pixel density of any Up to this point. It had the same pixel count as the 2.5in inch display, thus more condensed pixels. It looks really good. There was a four gigabyte version coming in coming in silver, turquoise, mint, green, Skipping ahead a little bit, Apple would also iPod Nano. Up next, Apple hadn't yet And two years after the fifth generation had This is the first time that the iPod Classic only six years old. But again, it just shows that the shift in their newer, smaller, flashier colored iPods coming up. The sixth generation had changed Now having an aluminum front plate that silver and black, this was actually the iPod Classic. The user interface was visually appealing and probably pretty about iOS six. The best thing about this UI that was being able to actually see the album That was pretty darn cool. The 80 gig model would cost you 250 bucks. American and the massive 160 gig model was And then last but not least, for the iPod but eventually would also be the last. When we introduced the iPhone, we said it was asking us and wondering when are we going to Well, the answer to that question is we're And this is what the product looks like. It's called the iPod Touch. I happen to have one right here. The iPod Touch was an iPhone, but not It was essentially an iPhone without the Also no camera. The iPod Touch is thinner than the first designed differently. Still retaining that being actually flat here. That black plastic piece there is for the And some form of that would remain on every On the front, you have the 3.5in display were the same numbers as the iPhone. But reviewers would note that the screen was And for a device cheaper than iPhone. Fair enough. Apple needed there to be some Or most people would buy this instead of an functioning flip phone or something along And another example of this was the design You have this outer trim in black instead of intentional to try to make the device look the eight gig model, $400 for 16. And then in February 2008 came a 32 gig model The tech specs were definitely of the time underclocked to 412MHz, along with 128MB of It wouldn't take much for the iPod Touch to OS three, it certainly does. The App Store wouldn't be a thing until July future update, at which point the iPod Touch mobile gaming, particularly with kids who The iPod could be vertically or horizontally that multi-touch display allowed for a whole applications that were never possible before The iPod Touch was going to be big. It was clear from the beginning. And not even just for those who couldn't easier and more intuitive to navigate than Plus, with the iTunes store on the device without even plugging the iPod into a I've somehow never done a full video on the But for now we're going to keep moving on as So now we're at 2008, a transitionary year iPhone, but still wanted to take advantage possible. September 2008 got a variety of Shuffle, which was still the second except for the colors again. Yes, again, I'm not joking and I have no I suppose they were unifying the palette to At this point we would see the iPod Nano thin form factor of the second gen, but now flipped vertically. This was one gorgeous lighter and thinner than ever, Colors were black, purple, light, blue, green, yellow, nine, which has to be one of the most An accelerometer was added just like on the shuffle songs by shaking the device as well mode. Flipping horizontally displays the horizontally on that long display. Apple really pushed that display, and I think the most fun products Apple has ever made. It was simple. It returned to a well-loved an in-between device from the iPods of old Oh, yes, the iPod Touch. The second generation was introduced being a placed compared to the first iPhone. It was kind of a budget option to the iPhone calls and taking photos. The stainless steel backing was now kind of gone with the screen itself being of higher the first generation there was now an battery life was improved significantly to It got the shake to shuffle feature like the This was a simple upgrade and the tech specs more of the same an improvement to keep the next year, this iPod would run up to iOS iPhone OS three, though the second gen is four, such as multitasking. All in all, a simple, straightforward And perhaps the best part was the price Now at 209 for eight gigs, 299 for 16 and And that's not all for 2008, folks. We had one more iPod classic revamp, the least the last notable one. Very little was changed externally, though. The black front plate was now gray, which I The thin 80 gig and the thick 160 gig models model priced at $250. It also had audio recorder. Learning capabilities. And Genius Genius had basically an algorithm Apple set up to make This change would never come to the 2007 So with that small difference, the community generation. After this, there technically seventh gen In 2009, a 160 gig model It still had the thin form factor, and that The iPod's days were numbered, and in June which is an awesome last name, was quoted to decline over time as we cannibalize He knew and Apple knew that it was inevitable with the iPhone and the iPod Touch being with so much more dedicated music players passing year. Even so, iPod wasn't dead yet March Apple presented to the world the all And I mean absolutely tiny. It's like a shrunk down lighter because for Apple. It also had zero buttons. That's right. There are absolutely no shuffle toggle on the top right by that instinct. The device. I did a video on this interesting and very impractical. The size was nice, but no buttons really. How did you even use it? Well, you used it with the inline remote on Simple enough, I guess. But if you were to lose those earbuds, you'd These little remotes weren't terribly common more come to third party headphones at the chance you'd only be able to use the ones This iPod did introduce playlists to the And how the heck would you even navigate Well, this is where voiceover comes in, a names of the songs and artists allowing you That way you cannot speak back to it like Overall, this was a very strange iPod. Definitely the weirdest Apple would ever And with that clip, it probably is the most You could argue for some of the small square It's a little taller, but it's so slim and Initially it came in only black or silver And you may have noticed that clip is The only time this would be incorporated Nothing of importance considering iPod would where we got those yearly refreshes. Apple seemed to be getting used to, first third gen as it was given a two gigabyte Finally, not sure what it is with Apple and line, but we did get one in particular that Apple themselves. They made a fully doubt scratched absurdly easily. But it is really neat. Yet another new generation of iPod Nano was same design with a few key differences. The display was even taller now, and on the integrated camera that can shoot 4K video at And there's even a microphone. Now you might ask, why did Apple add a Well, the correct answer is that they were video, which were these small camcorders to make the Nano be this compromise between But the more fun answer is why not? There are 15 filters even for the video, And the quality isn't too far off from what A pedometer was also added to track your But this is still an iPod technically, and There was now FM radio support, which is The colors were similar to the previous which I really like. And honestly, these two iPod nanos might be It's tough to say, but they're just so fun. And it is really weird to see like a camera It feels so foreign versus what we have Besides the new Nano, there of course, was Touch, making the device better than ever, to iPhone with no camera to be found. So, yes, the iPod Nano had a camera and the I'm not exactly sure what Apple's thought The lowest storage option was actually 32GB Specs had been bumped up significantly performance to the iPhone 3G and we get iOS Voice control was also added, which allowed to the iPod, like play Pause and so on. Now this is where things get a bit confusing model as well, but it wasn't actually an iPod Touch second gen either. It very closely matches the second. An iPod Touch has a couple of differences Practically speaking, it was basically just support only to iOS four. And I guess Apple didn't want to directly would deter buyers. But. Generation and fear it would deter buyers. But it was. And that's about it. For 2009, yet another year gone by. And while iPod upgrades were slowing down, But you know what they say all good things And with yet another revolutionary clear nothing would ever be the same again. I want to go back to 1991. Apple announced and shipped its first This was the first modern laptop computer In 2007, Apple reinvented the phone. Everybody uses a laptop and or a smartphone. Is there room for a third category of device If there's going to be a third category of these kinds of tasks than a laptop or a Otherwise, it has no reason for being. But we think we've got something that is and first time. And we call it the iPad. I happen to have one right here. That's what it looks like. Very thin. Just like this. For 2010. We're going to take the biggest leap since And so today. Today. We're introducing. iPhone four. You've got to see this thing in person. It is one of the most beautiful designs 2010 was a big, big year for Apple. And that's honestly an understatement. iPhone was getting more and more popular as the future and Apple was leading the way. Two major developments completely separate The first was announced January 27th, 2010, Yeah, of course, we can't forget the 1993 but the iPad was in another league in terms While Jobs was proud of the iPad, I'm not would really be. And speeding up the devices that we've seen in the past decade. The iPad would release April 3rd, 2010, selling a million in the first month. They hit 3 million sales in three months. And that October jobs would announce that That fiscal quarter, over 15,000,001st gen launch. And absolutely absurd number given been prior to the iPad's existence. While the iPad would be the last major new the second major development may have been The iPhone four announced the June 7th of Of course, today we're focused on iPod. I won't be going through much of the absolutely fascinating story. One I did do a pretty in-depth video about on link that in the description if you're But the iPhone four was huge, bringing not first ever retina display that absolutely water. The iPhone four was a big deal and That retina display carried a much higher There were no visible pixels. It was clean, it was crisp, and the display fingertips. This is when iPhone became more was a necessary part of everyday life. That display was the true selling point of significant changes and shifting forward to the iPhone four's innovation immediately. On September 1st, 2010, there were three new standout being the all new iPod Touch. Fourth generation, a design so good it was And we will get to it. But first, the fourth This would be the last generation ever made changes because that's what Apple does and The shuffle brought back the buttons in this the second shuffle, but condensed. It's basically what is, in my opinion, the It still has the clip on the back, which is playlists from the previous generation. The colors were silver, blue, green, orange storage for the insanely cheap price of only Us. Something like this was just unheard of This was, without a doubt the best iPod And while normally I am sad to see Apple do think it made sense. While sure they could add more storage now and water resistance, this iPod wasn't without removing the buttons again. And while Apple tried that, all in all, this And if you liked the tiny square design, The sixth generation iPod Nano completely features from the previous couple touchscreen. It only made sense Apple would line beyond just the touch as it truly was clickwheel. The sixth gen Nano looks like an just with that screen instead of buttons. The display here is absolutely tiny at just UI that isn't actually iOS. It shared some icons, but that was about it course photos, a radio, a clock app, which You could, however, customize it a bit by switching from large icons that fit one per You could also have icons for individual I did a video on this iPod a good while back exactly what this little iPod Nano would Form Factor and Clock app lent itself party wristbands, thus becoming what more or made. Now, it definitely had some downsides. I actually used to use this thing myself as So I can attest to both its ups and downs. The biggest issue is while you can set. The display to go straight to the clock when There was no way to keep it on. This was an LCD display on a very small battery. So even if you could, it probably So every time you want to glance at your and wait for about the half second delay Of course I would get used to this and would looking at the watch. That being said, one It's a small battery, but it's not powering And if you weren't listening to music, I week, I think, before needing to charge it every night. This thing was awesome and it pretty great for music too, with that Apple actually embraced the smartwatch 2011 through a software update, which was decent selection even with some Disney I said that the iPod Nano fifth Gen is my favorite iPod of all time, even though I so completely different and really ahead of actual Apple Watch not releasing until 2015. On a bit of a somber note, this event was the Jobs himself would present, making the iPod release before his passing. But what an iPod it would be, bringing the making it the cheapest way to get your hands Again, this was the best display on the And with that, you also got for the first The device managed to be even slimmer, the storage options of 832 or 64GB. The eight gig model was meant to be the fourth generation. Unlike the weird split Touch in my opinion. What was still to come really felt like iPod. This still had that classic design, but it crispy display and even Apple's own A4 albeit underclocked slightly and having less It's actually kind of a good thing. It wasn't quite as powerful though, as it's iPhone four got to iOS seven and would Having a camera at all was pretty awesome and cool considering the iPhone four had only What wasn't so cool was the actual quality The rear sensor had 0.7 megapixels and the It took horrible photos. But you know what? The fact that it could important thing to those lucky enough to It only makes sense that the final last released under Steve Jobs reign. And on August 24th, 2011, jobs would It was a heartbreaking day, but his health longer able to keep up with the duties that But he had worked for as long as he have respect for that. On October 4th, 2011, the iPod Touch fourth At the same event, the iPhone four S the tech industry forever as digital prevalent over the years. The following day, on October 5th, 2011, 56, surrounded by his family at home. His sister, Mona Simpson, said the following looked at his sister Patty, then a long time Laurene, and then over their shoulders past Steve's final words were, Oh, wow. Oh, wow. Oh, wow. There are no words to describe the impact His actions and continuous innovations have earth. No one is 100% immune to the presence role in society. No matter which part of the world you live Jobs was difficult to work with. He was stubborn. He didn't invent. He marketed. In spite of these critiques Jobs is listed as either the primary patents over the years. He would have lots of brilliant people But there's only one single common revolutionary innovations. One single, unwavering person through all he was the driving force behind Apple to Steve Jobs was a flawed man like any person, the smartest, most brilliant visionaries the And that's a singular fact that cannot be Steve Jobs thought different, and the world because of it. Even Jobs helped build the first Apple He is now 26 years old and is chairman of as the future of mankind. This is a 21st century bicycle that amplifies And I think that the after this process has to have on society are actually going to far revolution has had. I tell you what our goal is. Our goal is to make the best personal we are proud to sell and would recommend to Steve Jobs was gone. But Apple continued on. And as far as iPod goes, at first, a new era iPods modernizing the line further than ever On September 12th, 2012, two new iPods were changes. This was two years after the last They were already getting a lot more scarce. The iPod Classic, of course, didn't see any But it did make some sense given the final didn't really need changes just for the sake We would get what would be the final was a pretty drastic redesign. It returned to the long, narrow form factor, touchscreen with a home button. That display was 2.5in, kind of looking like basic operating system to the last iPod Nano basic apps that were pre-installed and set There was yet again basic wallpapers, a most importantly, Bluetooth support the Actually the only iPod to get it. Besides the iPod Touch, including the iPod thinnest iPod ever. And I would say that's accurate. Coming in the colors, blue, green, yellow, of the device. We now had the lightning Of course, this being 2012, the iPhone five iPhone had the lightning connector. While this obviously modernized the device for people back in the day who had docking Those used to be extremely popular, but pretty much what you would expect as like Nano five and four for storage, you only had And at its core, this iPod was finally again Even with a couple basic fitness features, and if you wanted less, there was the Next came an absolutely massive redesign of deserting the classic stainless steel and looking actually quite similar to the all We had that new four inch display still to use versus the 3.5in of the last half Sure. Compared to what we have now, it's ratio, which was so necessary and the device nostalgia. I might prefer the older iPod can't deny this is a very nice looking iPod. You had colors in black and slate, silver, as well as the product red that you can only On the bottom left corner, there's this loop wrist strap thing. It's basically kind of like those old loops around your wrist so you don't drop it They actually did really heavily market the I think they were hoping people would buy it The camera itself was pretty darn good for The rear sensor had five megapixels and The front facing camera was actually really wise, we had Apple's A5 chipset and 512MB of The A5 was Apple's first dual core chipset, lot of iOS updates and we'll get to that for You had 32 and 64GB and that was it. To have a budget option, Apple kept around It was cut to only the 16 and 32 gig options There was also a minor revision in the iPod It had come out back in 2010, of course, but Apple loves to shuffle up the colors, there yellow and purple matching the new iPod Reaching the end of 2012 is when this There's a reason I focused on a few years at Well, 2012 for iPod did have a pretty strong It would be the final year to do so. 2013 actually did see a new iPod Touch kind Apple discontinued permanently the iPod Touch fifth Gen. But with no iSight camera, coming in silver with a black front in 16GB. And that was it. There was still the selfie meant to be a completely budget oriented starting at 32GB. This was a strange addition, and it accidental sales to people who had no idea Even so, it technically was a new iPod. And it's definitely worth mentioning. I want to do a dedicated video on it at some But for now, there was one more thing that Not. Not really. On September 10th, the swapped to Space Gray to match the all new black and slate due to the paint being very The iPad Mini also had the color swapped and This iPod Touch five that I have personally I've always had a soft spot for the black. I suppose you could consider something else for iPod, kind of. And that was iOS seven. It completely redesigned and reimagined the Love it or hate it, it was very popular at Of course, the iPod Touch five was the only So that was definitely an appeal for anyone one. Like 2013. 2014 was pretty bare for iPod. The 16 gig, no iSight iPod Touch was dropped year after it came out. What replaced it was the normal fifth gen So basically what Apple probably should have 2014. The iPod Classic was finally If anything had showed Apple's feelings But at the same time, it unfortunately did I highly doubt the classic was selling very I mean, if it was, Apple would have kept it And if it's not selling well, it's expensive You have to source parts and get them Luckily, the iPod Classic is still available day, such as eBay or certain online store at This is a litte obsolete electronics. It's run by Austin, the man who sent me many actually builds a custom iPod classics and It's super, super cool. And there's been an entire community that's It's quite magical. So nice to see people enjoying and even improving these devices Adding faster and bigger storage along with This is a community that really became seemingly forgetting there were still people And if you're somehow still watching this, And if you are, I definitely encourage you Ironworks, some pretty awesome iPods over themed device he gave me. Or if you're feeling colorful, something like rainbow colored back and transparent plastic 2015 would bring one of the most recent iPod generation of iPod Touch. And if I don't sound excited, it's because The iPod looked basically identical from the that little loop thing, bringing upgraded chipset, putting the performance about on That might not sound great, but it was a Touch five, which around 2015 was absolutely when the iOS nine update hit. And oh boy, iOS nine. I've beat this subject to death across a Basically, iOS nine killed any life. The fifth gen touch had left as it's kind of This happened to any iOS device with the A5 The CPU was technically powerful enough to but in practice it absolutely chugged Mix disaster from a device already feeling slow certain extent. But luckily it was no longer six replacing it even if it was otherwise It did have an upgraded camera, at least on The selfie camera was the same with eight device from this year. The iPhone six still had eight megapixels in S. There was no event for this. It was just a press release. It wasn't a focus for them anymore. And that's not a surprise. I'm just glad they at least gave us another the end of its life. Unfortunately, one It was small in the fifth generation, but light that it was easy to forgive. But because this is identical to the fifth battery is just as small here. And because it runs even better hardware and Battery life is horrible, just atrocious. At the same time that the sixth gen iPod was colors to match the sixth gen iPod and so because as we all know, that's what Apple And moving to 2016. Nothing happened. On July 27th, 2017, the discontinued, as well as the fourth No more colors for the shuffle. It was gone. I'm kind of surprised Apple But for better or for worse, they're gone And if you want one. We are turning to eBay And then in 2019, we have the most recent On May 28th, 2019, the iPod Touch seventh as the iPod Touch. Six with the same colors, the same battery, The iPod Touch seven is powered by the A10 This is about equivalent to what the iPhone it's still supported on iOS 15 today in The problem is with this seventh generation, The battery is the same. It's so bad when you first get it. It might be okay just long enough. So the person thinks, Hey, cool, I'm doing But then a year down the road, maybe even and it gets to this point where you're just But I digress. I mean, I have experience with clearly I haven't gotten over the battery You know, at this point I really thought altogether, but they didn't. And they even made it slightly better in there being 128 and then 256 after it, actually had the highest storage capacity of The iPod Classic only went up to 160GB, if add more storage. But even so, officially, of any iPod ever. And what's the future of Well, it's hard to say. The truth is, there probably isn't a future It's been more or less replaced at this bit of storage on it. But everyone at this It's the new thing with Apple Watch. With cellular, you can leave your phone at jog and listen to Apple Music without the It's impossible to know for sure what Apple Perhaps they discontinue the line Maybe they give the iPod touch yet another But we do know is that after the October changed, making it very difficult to find It's still there, only accessible when you read through all the little options. This may or may not be a sign of what's to Apple has surprised us many, many times I would love to see a new iPod classic, today, like water resistance and Bluetooth classic. That's the dream, you know, people look like. I highly doubt Apple does it, but And Apple knows that people remember it. There's nostalgia attached to it. So I wouldn't expect Apple to forget about But you never know. But what I do know is absolutely mind boggling when you consider with this a thick, chunky MP3 player with a eventually it turned into not this, but this iPhone is the real evolution of iPod. The spirit of iPod lives on in iPhone. It's like Jobs said in 2007, the iPhone was When you grow up, you tend To get told that the world is the way it is Your life is just to live your life inside World. Try not to bash into the walls too much, Try to have a nice family life, have fun, But life, that's a very limited life. Life can be much broader once you discover around you that you call life was made up by And you can change it. You can influence it, you can you can build And the minute that you understand that, you you push in, something will pop out the you can mold it. That's maybe the most important thing is to life is is there and you're just going to improve it, make your mark upon it. I think that's very important. And however you learn that once you learn better because it's kind of messed up in a Once you learn that, you'll never be the Yeah, that's an interesting thing about for the lowest common denominator.