Hey everyone, so many of you are aware of that is the flat earth delusion, which is entire internet. But there are lots of other hoaxes, and it's Today let's tackle one that is referred Interestingly enough there is a little bit and some flat earthers do cite the electric certainly do not believe the earth is flat So the main difference is that flat earth background whatsoever, while electric universe at disguising itself as real science. Also, unlike flat earth, which is led by science-illiterate electric universe is pushed by a small handful degree in physics. So I do have some sympathy for those who fall seem legitimate, and it does take some knowledge But in the end, electric universe is just as I will demonstrate for you here. Let's start by going over what this fad with it. The most cited resource by electric universe Project. What it presents, in overdramatized action gravity that dictates all the large-scale and the electromagnetic force. So to be clear, modern astrophysics offers gravity causes gas to collect to form stars, all the elements and incredible amounts of out these stars meet their demise, spewing collect again to form other stars and planetary But according to the electric universe, all It is not gravity, the force of attraction the formation of these entities. Gravity does not play a part in powering a by fusion, but rather by some inexplicable Every ramification of our understanding of theory of general relativity, is referred This means that black holes aren't real, real, gravitational waves aren't real, and The main issue for the viewer is that the the universe that are difficult for a layperson Astrophysicists know that the claims are ridiculous, they hear that so-called "mainstream science" for them to reject the consensus of astrophysics. So while we will make our way up to space earthly phenomena, which should be a little First, gravity is the thing that causes objects Gravity is the attraction between all matter, gravitational force using Newton's law of These two M's represent the masses of the their centers, and G is a constant. So the more massive the objects, the greater so things tend to stay on the ground, and We also know from Newton's second law of so the gravitational force causes objects the ground at 9.8 meters per second squared, by 9.8 meters per second, every second that due to the resistance the atmosphere produces. This value, the acceleration due to gravity, If you go farther away from earth, it decreases If you go to another planet or moon that is one of these M's decreases. That's why we are so much lighter on the We know for a fact that this equation describes We use it to calculate the trajectories of are always corroborated to high degrees of precision. This understanding of gravity is applied to as it can be applied here on earth. But the electric universe would insist that If it's truly wrong, then the whole thing how can that be so? In short, if gravity isn't what we say it How do we send probes to the outer planets? Why do things work the way we say they will Furthermore, we understand electromagnetism We have electricity, we have an understanding and other assorted phenomena. So how is it that we understand gravity so well enough to realize that one is the other? We must therefore acknowledge that electric First, it attempts to invalidate a model that The most outlandish pushers of the electric If gravity isn't real, then why does a Newtonian Why can we use it to do so many things? Second, electric universe does not offer anything replace the model it claims is invalid. Where is the electric universe's model regarding Where is the derivation of the indisputable the downward acceleration of all objects, To be fair, not all followers are this far universe acknowledge the existence of gravity. But still, if they insist our model of gravity and magnetism, shouldn't this be evident If things fall down not exclusively due to but also by some activity relating to electromagnetism, at least qualitatively? Why don't objects of different electrical Why is it that paramagnetic, diamagnetic, same rate? Shouldn't we be able to ground ourselves Shouldn't it be easy to build flying cars? Shouldn't we be able to step inside a Faraday What is the supposed source of electromagnetic interact with it if bulk matter is electrically If the source is somehow the center of the center of the earth to us, so why doesn't substance we are standing on, and its conducting It should change when moving from sand, to And what about water? Water conducts electricity and spans the globe, Why don't we see any significant observations If magnetism attracts us to the ground, why Why don't compasses point to us? Why aren't we torn to shreds in an MRI machine? As we quickly see, applying even just the clear that it is not electromagnetism, but as currently understood by physicists that Since these phenomena are fundamentally the described by the same equations, we ought model of gravity is so flimsy and incomplete, Ok, now that we've grounded ourselves a outlandish claims that electric universe makes First for context, we should note that outlets focus very heavily on ancient myths and symbols, radically different night sky being visible basis in the archetypes of early civilizations. No actual evidence is offered whatsoever, Honestly, this is all you need to know to If a theory in physics claims not only to to explain observations better than existing primarily by presenting what could be the If the theory were valid, it could be explained predictions. This is the first indicator that the whole narrative to ensnare the viewer. The second indicator is the baseless manner Thunderbolts will point to structures of gas some claim about them. Some feature will be described as plasma, labeled as an electric current, without offering Some kind of spurious comparison to electricity-based visual resemblance indicates that they are It doesn't stop there. Electromagnetism is proposed as the basis How is this possible? With the electromagnetic force, opposite charges How can a planet form by this force alone? Bulk matter is electrically neutral. The attraction and repulsion would cancel not separated, they are distributed evenly. Gravity is exclusively an attractive force electrical charge. It doesn't take much knowledge of physics Stars and planets form by the accumulation especially complex or remotely controversial When electric universe denies this fact, apart it offers no concrete mechanism of its own Then, because they propose that gravity is to form stars, this also eliminates gravity stars are powered, so there can be no inward This means stellar nucleosynthesis is not by some other means. But this is absurd. We know that stars are powered by fusion. We understand plasma. We know how it works. Magnetohydrodynamics is a vibrant field that We can make plasma here on earth. We can perform fusion in reactors. We see the signatures of fusion in stars. We know that this is how all the elements We can identify the presence of all these spectra. We know what elements are in there, and their the context of fusion. We understand the stellar life cycle. We can depict this in great detail on a Hertzsprung-Russell This diagram aligns immaculately with what see fit on this diagram, with a predictable New stars that are discovered conform to this It is a perfectly descriptive model with an like the electric universe would suggest that to replace it. That may suffice for someone with zero knowledge those who know for a fact that stars are powered know the earth goes around the sun. With electric universe content, it is simply the universe, which it does, in the form of plasma, which is true for almost everyone This is why they are able to pretend that universe are plasma when they are not, and that it doesn't have. Physicists do understand plasma. And if any electric universe talking points Electric universe is presented as an innovative but it isn't. It's pseudoscience that contradicts existing In attempting to persuade, the progenitors stating that the big bang cosmological model stars violate principles of chemistry, or in physics that they know uneducated viewers already bought into the narrative. They will list alleged gaps in astrophysics stars that are common knowledge, or the existence in high-energy events like supernovae and They will claim that we are clueless about utilize Doppler imaging techniques that depend They will make statements like "plasma cosmologists and also in a supercomputer that galaxies Really? How? Where is the citation? The idea that the sun is somehow connected absurd. Where are the electric currents? Is there a map? How do we detect them? Where is the attempt to rationalize such a Electric universe does not publish any models, so there is no basis with which it can even At absolute best, pushers of the electric data in astrophysics that has yet to be explained, does not in any way support pseudoscientific The electric universe must be justified by offered, not even in a vague, qualitative way. They are so bold as to even criticize legitimate as though it is some kind of a weakness to this is just to cover their own tracks for They will propose that craters on the moon How? When? From where? There is no justification, while specifically It is also totally elusive. Where is this phenomenon in the solar system It is proposed that Venus was once a comet. Where did it come from, and how did it settle It is proposed that Valles Marineris, the lightning bolt, and that no other explanation that it is the result of tectonic phenomena. It is claimed that astrophysics can't explain disks are well understood and visible in telescopes. It's just an endless list of provocative weight behind them, all of which can be replaced of googling. The trouble with debunking the electric universe legitimate science as a basis. Obviously the electromagnetic force is real, Stars do generate magnetic fields, like our This field is responsible for the appearance Planets generate magnetic fields too, like Earth's, which is responsible for the Aurora Borealis. Black holes generate magnetic fields too, of streams of plasma that are not swallowed speed in the direction perpendicular to their So some small percentage of what they say is true. This exemplifies the way that it is easier so as to provide an air of plausibility, and There is truly no evidence whatsoever for and already existing models in astrophysics supported by an enormous amount of evidence. One can pretend that existing models are outdated, but it just isn't true. Astrophysicists use the newest data to publish to refine the models that we already know No astrophysicist that is worth their salt fact, none of them do. So if this is all so objectively false, what Why do people become interested in this? Well, just as with all other such cults, it Electric universe adherents love to mock Einstein, scientist of the 20th century. This is the first point of delusion for people and immediately buy into it. Insecure individuals are triggered by the comprehension, and prefer to dismiss it. Rather than going through the effort of studying or anything else from Einstein's body of to reject it all outright, and assert oneself This type of narcissistic delusion is so transparent The narrative that all of science is wrong a defense mechanism that allows them to avoid It is a projection of one's own ignorance It is the tendency to take a flawed and oversimplified more complicated, but strongly verified physics, On top of this, electric universe is arrogant It claims that modern cosmology describes while the electric universe describes how with the rest of the galaxy, and our galaxy Beyond the fact that gravity connects us just as the spiritual satisfaction of a theory Moving on to other aspects of gravity, relativity We use time dilation equations from special If we didn't, their clocks wouldn't align If relativity wasn't true, why would we function properly? Furthermore, general relativity has made countless It predicts the perihelion precession of Mercury's It predicts gravitational lensing, black holes, observed, and can't be explained with any Relativity is routinely confirmed beyond a says otherwise is just making a fool of themselves. Now, contradicting known science is one thing, The second point of delusion for the suggestible the realm of paranoia. Electric universe takes on an almost religious a false prophet, and someone like Nikola Tesla It has an almost scriptural feel to it. Einstein is regarded as being representative while Tesla, who is horribly misquoted, is the superiority of the elite, and had his allow to exist. This is completely idiotic. There is no such thing as mainstream science, If something works, it's science. We can study it, and build technology with it. If it doesn't work, it's not science, be used to do anything useful. Relativity works, and is useful. Electric universe does not work, and is not useful. That's the end of the story. The idea that the entire physics community nature of the universe is preposterous, and scientific process. The scientific community is not one entity, what will and won't be acknowledged as science. Science is a vibrant field comprised of hundreds all acting autonomously, all trying to do If electric universe was real, thousands of They would be publishing papers, there would incredible technology. In short, why would people ignore something reason? Why would we unanimously reject something Pride? Political pressure? If it was real, someone, somewhere would use the point of science. So as you can see, although it appears more at first glance, and although some of its cut through the veneer of legitimacy, electric It appeals exclusively to the uneducated by At best, it's just bad science dressed up think crystals are magic and who watch Ancient notion that ancient myths have nothing to At worst, it spits directly in the face of science. It tells you that physics is wrong, so you It tells you that some of the most brilliant that you can be smarter than them. And a handful of followers go all the way who literally think they are Neo stuck in Electric universe strikes some kind of chord part of an an epic adventure, which compels It's slightly trickier to spot than other the motives that educated people find to cause It would seem to me that the primary figureheads As to other physicists that have jumped on ego and status, the desire to be relevant so as to be a leader, which is a compulsion has the potential to drive us towards self-delusion. Perhaps this can be forgiven to an extent, conferences and books and merchandise, others intent to deceive, other than their own subconscious But it doesn't make the science any more valid. So to avoid falling for things like the electric The first way is to actually learn science. That's right, the science found in textbooks watching science-fiction and pretending that But it definitely is a lot more useful, both The second way is to simply learn to spot as they all say pretty similar things. The mainstream, or the establishment, is wrong, their little upstart ragtag bunch of Luke speak the truth in opposition. It's always the same. People who fall for these hoaxes are the ones true, and they want it so badly, that they universe has zero explanatory power or technological They will look the other way on logic to appease and to be part of the next big thing. If we can be adequately self-reflective, we observe it, and reject it. We can reject this, and we can reject every simply by analyzing the way the narrative So that's it for the electric universe, identifying hoaxes. We may have only uncovered one such hoax today, more one by one, so until next time.