- This is me pitching a ball that's impossible to hit, and I engineered it out of against the world's greatest Now, wiffle ball is the of baseball here in America. What makes it really interesting is the balls have these holes on one side, which means they can curve like crazy, (balls clacking) but how does that work? And how do baseballs, or actually curve through So today, we're gonna test to that question, and since I grew up of wiffle ball myself, I'm gonna revive a lifelong dream of going head to head against the pros, and I don't wanna give too much away but I might have had to rely (objects clacking) to level the playing field. (dramatic music) (person yelping) Now, the whole idea for started with an impromptu in Brea, California. Last time I lived here so I'm just gonna go ambush 'em. I want a tour. (doorbell ringing) Hey, what's up? I'm Mark. (person laughing) How are you? - Good, how are you? - Good. I used to live here. - I know. - [Mark Narrator] So, after they were kind enough down memory lane. - Oh my gosh. If these walls could talk, you know. I used to keep my micro machines right in this little cabinet here. Up there on the roof is where me and Scott Glacier used to throw and her friend's sunbathing down here. That's an option for you kids. I also took the chance to confess that all the holes in their metal shed were arrowed shots from a in eighth grade. - There was a target, I wasn't - [Mark Narrator] But what is how all the neighborhood all the time, because while that may look for us, it was a soccer, hockey, basketball and baseball stadium where long forgotten where each game always felt so big and the only thing that could stop us was when the street lights came on, signaling it was time and to my absolute delight, - I'ma go ahead and call - [Mark Narrator] And look, (person groaning) but were there some rumors that Mark the long ball (ball clacking) I'm not gonna deny it. - It's just like old times. This is great. - [Mark Narrator] Even at the mound, I was still slinging lasers. - Still got it. - [Mark Narrator] And as it did make me question if I missed out on my true calling as a because you should know, they're actually professional And while we share a very our history split paths when and turned those adolescent into the world's first pro In fact, this is Kyle as an 11 year old and now 14 years later, and commissioner. He told me every year starting in spring, eight teams compete in a four-month season with players traveling There's a draft, playoff, a world series, and of course, for 14 years, they tracked that is possibly trackable. As you'd expect, there's and league legends like Jimmy Knorp, AKA &quot;the Knorpedo&quot;, to be the best pitching-hitting and as the reigning back it's easy to see why. None of them get paid to play it so their truest compensation in this game that has (people cheering) - Perfect game! Perfect game! - [Mark Narrator] He also in Oklahoma right around the I was finally gonna get my in front of an actual crowd, which meant it was time to refer to himself from the third person and make his professional debut. And I was playing it cool I spotted the unmistakable flowing hair. - Who's the best? - Back to back champ in - [Mark Narrator] Of Jimmy, (upbeat music) This was definitely the big leagues. - So, how many per team? - We like to do three V three. - [Mark Narrator] So we and it was game on. (triumphant music) - All right. Here you go, Jimmy. (triumphant music) - [Mark Narrator] Kyle connected so it was over to the Red - Oh yeah, Barron. (triumphant music) - Nice. - [Mark Narrator] And but I wasn't here to waste - I'ma go ahead and do it. - Call the shot. - [Mark Narrator] With the finally being replaced I'd always dreamed of, this was my... - [Camera Man] Uh-oh. - What? That feels impossible to hit. - [Mark Narrator] Now in wiffle ball, you get four and it's a strike if it hits anywhere on the rectangular pipes, or more embarrassingly, the metal plate in the middle. - I'm sorry, team. - [Mark Narrator] And with I swapped with Kyle to - No! No! No! (people cheering) - Everywhere I go, I'm getting out. - [Mark Narrator] So we had two outs but now that I'd cleared the cobwebs out, I could just sense things (person sighing) - Ah. - [Mark Narrator] Well, I was always more of a pitcher anyways. (person exhaling) It was time to give of old school, suburban because Jimmy Knorp's had come to an end. - Oh. (laughs) Whoops. Do you take a face on that? (upbeat music) Ooh! (people clapping) - [Mark Narrator] And to center-field, Captain (upbeat music) - That's witchcraft! - [Mark Narrator] And look, I'm not proud of my unlike the West Coast in the pros, as you can see here, these pitches are moving It's like the ball had propellers and it makes it nearly if it's a pitch you should swing at or a pitch you should duck (ball clacking) (people gasping) - How did he do that? - [Mark Narrator] And the rest was just more of the same. Although I am proud to I finally got on base. (people gasping) - Ah! (upbeat music) (people cheering) - [Mark Narrator] And so they narrowly edged us out for the win. This was not how it It was gonna be a long plane a plan was already forming in my head to science the cred out of this and use my engineering abilities and step one was to fly Jimmy to study exactly how they can curve a ball as much as they do, and after and gathering a bunch of data myself, I then marched them straight over to the home of the San Francisco Giants 'cause they're regarded as the team with the most advanced in all of Major League baseball. (person laughing) - Wow. This feels pretty big. - [Mark Narrator] And I was incredibly relieved and coaches struggling just as much as I did. (people laughing) (jingle music) But then it was into the clubhouse for the real purpose of the trip, to meet with Brian Banister, of the science behind is sort of their secret sauce for developing all these great pitchers, and he's got the hardware to show for it. - When you use these concepts, (people laughing) - [Mark Narrator] And so after that, I was feeling pretty good about my handle on how exactly they were but as final confirmation we also met up with the to run one last test versus an identical one that and as a further point of indication, I'm happy to report their also fell victim to Kyle and the Knorpedo. (people laughing) And so after my extensive and interviews, here's the answer as to how any sort of ball and it starts with a riddle. Let's say you're an astronaut and you go out for a with your big wrench, and as you're heading out, and miss grabbing the handle, and now you're very slowly drifting away. What do you do to save yourself? And you might say, well, you just sort of swim your way back, but in zero gravity as demonstrated here by an actual astronaut, you can flail your arms all you want but your center of mass All right, so did you think of the answer? The trick is you throw the in the opposite direction and that will give you just a little push to slowly move you back And this makes intuitive sense, right? Like, if you're on a skateboard and you throw something you're gonna move back to the left. - [Mark] Mate! You had one job! - [Mark Narrator] Well, this is exactly how rockets move around in They create a chemical to make a lot of tiny wrenches and they just throw them and the rocket naturally just like you as an astronaut. So, that's one thing you need to know and the other is the Coanda Effect, which states that fluids like to curve and flow around a smooth surface. You actually already know this. If you've ever noticed how water will flow around a curved spoon. Well, air is also a fluid and so it curves just like because the strings are as it turns the round Okay, so now let's put From the ball's perspective, on the top side here and curving around really nicely because the rotation of the ball matches great with the airflow, but on the bottom side, they're opposite, so there's sort of a head-on collision with the air rushing That means more air curves around the top, which means more little air wrenches are thrown diagonally the back-spun ball moves diagonally up, just like the astronaut, The fancy term for this and big light balls like beach balls are great for demonstrating this effect because they have lots of surface areas so they throw off lots of wrenches, but they're also really light so the air wrenches And now that you know this, you know exactly what causes soccer balls, pink pong balls, golf balls and baseballs. With the baseball, the seams help grab even more air wrenches as the ball spins but they also provide the so they can spin the ball even faster. Our normal versus smooth when the normal baseball with the seams was curving so much more. - By the way, this same principle is how frisbees seem to defy gravity, because air curves over the smooth edge, throwing wrenches down all around, turning it into a freaking jet pack. Now having said that, you should know that the wiffle ball is very similar yet slightly different than all of those. - [Mark Narrator] As long with the holes, which something then by comparison, this That means the air has a much like water on a smooth spoon, throwing down the air wrenches, causing the ball to lift And sure enough, when we we see that in every case, the ball is curving and away from the holes. So, now whenever you see a ball curving, just think of tiny flying off the back of the ball as it spins through the air. And now that I knew there's it was time to use that knowledge to engineer some sweet revenge with an 18 second build montage. (upbeat music) And so it was back to Oklahoma with a duffel bag full of surprises addressed specifically for Jimmy Knorp. - But before we get to that, you might have noticed my backyard. That's because to fight summer brain drain and make this your least we created Camp CrunchLabs. Now, Camp CrunchLabs is a featuring weekly videos with and then weekly super and the best weekly challenge submission of the whole summer gets a platinum ticket to come out here with me for the biggest mega experiment of the all and the final video of the summer. On top of that, usually where we build a really fun toy together, where I teach you all the comes every month, but to coincide with the Camp and videos, we can ship them to you every week. - Yes! Look! - So, if you want a 12 week summer camp where you can learn to with 0% chance of bug head to CampCrunchLabs.com to reserve one of the limited spots, and I'll see you at summer camp. - Oh, look who it is. (indistinctive chatter) Number one. - [Mark Narrator] I took the opportunity of admiring my new gift to with the Knorpedo and his - Got a bag of stuff here. It should be a little bit Play ball. - [Mark Narrator] The - All right, I'm at the mound. - [Mark Narrator] And 'cause an even larger crowd Playing with the pros had yet my last outing was (person exhaling) So, I decided to give them a small taste of what they could expect for round two and wound up to deliver (triumphant music) Dinner is served. Now, all I had to do was retrieve because if you preload a brass in a 3D-printed ball like this and then take apart a $1 kitchen timer and harvest the geared mechanism, then when you wind up the you get a one and a half second delay until this screw rotates and just like an astronaut wrench, and that alters the trajectory in midair, making it impossible to And as you can see, unpredictability is a Unfortunately, after just two strikes, they found my Achilles heel which is exactly why you Ooh, just missed the strikeout. (person laughing) This one used the same kitchen only this time, the two were preloaded against So, after the one and a half second delay, your hitting options went from which was just enough to (person cheering) Unfortunately, the crafty that by simply stepping forward, they could make contact before which meant it was time the wiffle copter, and you might think now but I did a thorough reading of the rules and it's a strike if it or metal plates above the two legs, but it makes no mention of front or back. - Let's go. (laughs) Let's go. Exploiting loopholes. - [Mark Narrator] Unfortunately, my smugness was short-lived, 'cause you don't become a without a tremendous amount So with two runners on, it with this 3D-printed, triple 10,000 RPM fly-wheeled monstrosity of a personal pitching Now, the Demogorgon is calibrated to launch his cruise missiles at just under the 74 on pitches in the league. The only problem is, that of flowing electrons and battery power soon became a concern, and that's just not a position with Captain Clutch at the plate, sadly giving them the and I was concerned things but thankfully, (people gasping) Jimmy can't take every at bat. And after a pop-up and a I'd survived the first inning with only one allowed run to show for it. For the first time, I was which meant it was time to show the world I was more than just a pitcher. (ball clacking) - Ooh! (ball clacking) - How is that possible? - [Mark Narrator] So it but then Barron got on base followed by Kyle with an - Yes! Let's go. - [Mark Narrator] Straight which meant suddenly, For the first time ever, and at this rate, (person exhaling) yeah, I struck out again, but we were still winning. And with the final play of the inning, Barron capitalized on for a potential inside the park home run, but there's a major where the strike zone So, if you don't beat the throw home, (people cheering) then you're out, and heading I was fresh outta batteries and after two strikes, they got on base, or at least they would've if And now that first base going free range with the top I decided to bring him back after seeing the Knorpedo was up next 'cause there was plenty but my dreams were crushed- - Oh! out of the park. - Oh, come on! Come on. Boo! - [Mark Narrator] And and Jimmy had clearly On the next play, they hit one deep and were but I had a short circuited first base that needed some avenging. (upbeat music) - Yeah! (laughs) - [Mark Narrator] And with headed into the bottom of the second, this was the perfect And just as I'd hoped, the increased surface and with the little and we would've kept it going if someone wouldn't - Oh my gosh. (laughs) - [Mark Narrator] Okay, fine. Me too. So, we were headed into the and we kept Kyle on the mound even though he said his arm and of course, Captain on the first pitch. So, I volunteered to take The problem was I had run and gimmick personal-pitching machines, but thanks to the power of pneumatics, I hadn't run out of gimmick strike zones. which gave my floater a So, after getting one out some good old-fashioned But with Jimmy at bat and one of their players which honestly felt a little like cheating but I took the high road and let it slide. This time, I was really out of tricks. It was just me versus Mano Imano, and on my first pitch, I got him on the delayed riser. My second pitch, got him (people cheering) If I was really gonna do this, I would need to rely on on this journey of discovery. (ball clacking) And that was strike three. - Yes! - [Mark Narrator] I had struck out the world's greatest wiffle ball player, and earning that subtle nod of mutual respect from the Knorpedo sort of felt like a to Kobe type-of-moment, and down by one headed it lasted about as long as it took to immediately strike me out again. - That wasn't cool. - [Mark Narrator] Now, but instead of the two we quickly got two outs, but Barron kept our hopes and by some absolute miracle, I finally got a real hit fair and square (people cheering) which put me and Barron - Let's go! (suspenseful music) - [Mark Narrator] So, it and as soon as I saw contact, I knew it wasn't enough to clear the wall. So, I started my mad dash with It was a risky move but I knew it would mean With Jimmy taking the cutoff at second, the gauntlet was thrown. His arm versus my legs, no more tricks. Okay, well maybe just one more trick. With a blast of air at a hundred PSI, their catcher was nowhere to be found, clearing my triumphant return to that most beautiful of (people cheering) (triumphant music) As we celebrated the game, it almost felt like at any moment, the streetlights would come on, signaling it would be time and I was reminded of a truth it feels like Jimmy and Kyle and all of their buddies finding something you're that brings you joy is one - Mark, what'd you learn today? - [Mark Narrator] And to have found it, you should protect and cherish it like your most prized possession. Have you ever seen a Well, now you have. And while he can chop his Jenga skills are severely lacking. - Welcome to your least AKA Camp CrunchLabs. What the heck is Camp CrunchLabs, you ask? Well, it's a 12-week virtual summer camp featuring weekly videos with and then weekly super and the best weekly will get a platinum ticket to film the final video where I'm only 20% sure that this (objects banging) On top of that, usually where we build a really fun toy together and where I teach you of how they work comes every month, - Yes. - but to coincide with the Camp and videos, we can ship them to you every So, don't spend summer super bored, forgetting everything you and instead, come to Camp CrunchLabs, where you'll have a blast, (upbeat music) growing your brain in delightful ways as you challenge yourself and learn to think like an engineer. Now, if you're already don't worry. You get all this for free, but if you haven't somehow subscribed yet, then this is the perfect chance or use the link of the video description to reserve one of the limited spots, and I'll see you at summer camp.