- You may not believe me but someone turned these - You're right, I don't believe you. - Or this bolt turned into - You're lying. - And this into this. - You're a liar. - And this into this. - Stop! - So you take the chains, you cut a hole in them, - You mean, weld it? - Yes, that. Then you light it on fire, whack it some. - Whack it. - Whack it some more. Once you're done whacking, you sand it. I totally know what I'm talking about. And I'm not just saying what he is doing. - You just go from metal to beautiful sword. - It's literally that easy. - It's just so simple. - Just slide a handle on. Everyone has those laying around. - It's pretty much like here's the chain. All right, and we made a sword out of it. - He could've just been beating the chains and then just swapped it out for a sword and we never would've known. - Wow, that's actual like I wish I could make something like this. I'm just funny. That's not useful. - Sure. - I'm not even funny either? - Now, we're gonna turn old brass trash into a shiny golden ring. All right, so, trash. - How do you know that's trash? - I don't know. I believe the guy. - Oh, he's gonna make like - Wonder if I gave that to Did you make your wife's wedding ring? - No, I found it in a dresser. I bought a piece of furniture for $15 and it had a $3,000 ring in it. I'm not joking. That's how I got Katie's ring. That is a really cool ring. - Which is cooler? The ring or his wicked finger hair? - It's so thick. - It is. - And he's got a Rolex. - He's like, &quot;Yeah, I But how about this Rolex?&quot; - I know, right? Like, &quot;Chill, - Have you ever watched &quot;How It's Made&quot;? - Yeah, these are great. - I watch it at 3:00 AM while This is so cool. I love automation. The fact that it's taking jobs. - I mean, what jobs is this taking? What, is someone just to - What about the guy who puts - Yeah, he's doing something - Something more fulfilling. People like to look at automation like, &quot;Oh no, it's gonna take jobs.&quot; Did anybody really wanna do this? - I know, right? - Bust down Apple Watch. I didn't wear mine today. - That's fine, he has one already. - Oh, he's doing that gold plating it with the liquid. Look at that. You know how that works? So he gives electric signal- - All right, let's keep playing. - Is this something I could just do with my own Apple Watch? - No, you have a child. - Oh, crap. Imagine if that was his stipulation. He's like, &quot;Make sure if you have a child, you do not do this.&quot; - So basically, he died in gold. - Woody blinked. I don't care about the gold Apple Watch. How do I get Woody blinking on my watch? How crescent rolls are made? - Oh, Chris is gonna love this one. - It's so sad that you know that that's literally my favorite food, is just crescent rolls. - Whenever he got tired of filming, he'd always be in his car - There's probably just one factory that just makes croissants for- - They just have a - Is it crescent or croissant? - Croissant these nuts. - Could I just stand at and let 'em go into my mouth? Well, not with the wrapper on, of course. - I mean, if you wanna weigh 5,000 pounds. - Maybe I do. Maybe I wanna turn a rusted bolt- - Into a pin. All right, he's at a junkyard. If he literally just with no forethought, that's insane. - Maybe there was post thought. - Yo, that sounds like a UFO. - Editor edited a UFO just flying. - He did, now he is - Don't do that. Wait, so we're just here now? I call bologna. Ready to assemble. I wish I could make stuff like this. Like look at that. - Play Chris saying that every at the same time on the screen. - I wish I could something like this. - Now play it a 1,000 times. - I wish can make something like this. Look at that. That's an old gun. - Oh, is that dynamite? - No. - He's washing the- - Rust? And those are electromagnets Now he's scrubbing. Look at that. - Wow. - That went from very dirty to very beautiful really quick. It's crazy how metal can just go from looking like red and - It can look like a third degree sunburn, no sunscreen, two days on the - Yeah, look at that. - Wow, that's actually really nice. - He just took something that most people would've just thrown away and made it brand new, essentially. I wanna hear it go kabooyah ka-chow. I didn't get to see it. - No one cares, we're gonna - Isn't there only like The tennis ball? - Why does that look like the same thing that made croissants out of? Are tennis balls and croissants - Look, it's just shooting Oh, yep, and then they press 'em. Look at that. Oh wait, this is Krispy Kreme Donghnuts. - I wanna know where the - Yeah, what is that? Like, is there just some yellow animal they're just shaving all the time? - Where does that fur come from? - Wait, we're about to find out. Oh see, we don't get to see I can only assume this or an animal. Look at that. - Shouldn't it be like, wow, when a tennis ball's wrapped? - And then Roger Federer takes it and hits it and makes hundreds - Well, before he does that, - Dude, then they put and when you open 'em they smell. Oh my God. - Oh God, I don't even play tennis, but I go buy tennis - If you've never experienced - You're stupid. - So wait, did he find as like a relic and now he's restoring it? - He was playing a video game, and then he just saw it on the ground. It was like a level one sword. And now he is turning it - This looks like the if you're like brand new into the game. And it looks like a really good sword but it like only does like - Think this is a level five sword. 10 outta 10 though. Real life, 10 outta 10. Video game, one outta 10. - Yeah. - Turning a rusted bolt into scissors. - If only there was a I don't know where that place is. - So, all right, you're in eighth grade, you have to do a science project. You need to cut some All Walmarts closed down. It's like 9:00 PM or something like that. Go to the junk yard, grab a rusted bolt. Boom, do this. - You think an eighth - I mean, the eighth - Yeah. - He's got a science project due. - Wait, did we? Is this something- - Watch, watch, you idiot. He's doing magic. - Oh, sorry. - Couldn't even tell he cut the video. - What's with all these rusty bolts? - Dear rusted bolts across the planet, you are no longer safe. Dead serious, rusty bolts, I'd find a new hiding spot. I wonder how the machines Like, are they proud of their work? - I think they just are machines and don't feel anything, right? - True. Imagine being able to do that. Wait, he's not wearing gloves. I'm sure he is probably good enough to where he doesn't have to, but you should always - The guy making this probably - Yeah, he probably is. - That sounds epic. - That sounded like the by Tyler the Creator, no joke. - Did all this come from that rusty chain? It's probably one of a kind, one of the coolest things - But it's a fake, not Oh, this is gonna be the coolest lighter. This is gonna be so like steam punkish. All right, let's see it. - Nice. - That's a good lighter. - Rusty coil spring forged into a knife. - It's a kunai not a knife. - What's the difference? - A kunai is what they Michelangelo used a kunai. - Gotcha. - That is not correct. - So they're turning a rusty That's a kunai from &quot;Naruto.&quot; Wait, your weapon lore was off. - I don't wanna upload this video anymore. - Can we play two seconds of - Now the channel doesn't I hope you're happy. Arguably the most useless Everybody always dodges it. - I agree, I don't think from a kunai. - This is really good. You think he made those - Honestly, yes. It's the same guy. - Look at that. If you've ever wanted to be in &quot;Naruto,&quot; you just need a bolt. Turning a steel bolt into Why don't you just buy it from Walmart? - Why would you spend $6 when you could just spend - Fair point. And also get 10 million plus views. - No, it's to have a really good... What are we making again? - A reaction video. How's he gonna bend the thing? - Fire? - Yeah. - It'd probably be just better - Yeah, I don't know if I would - Is it cool? Yes. Practical as a lock? Probably not. - We've seen watches swords, more swords. - Scissors. - This thing. - Now we're seeing a butterfly knife. - Oh, this is like that knife they make in &quot;CS:GO&quot; but IRL. - Does that cut his hair? I'm telling you, it's a thing. People who make knives - And not only that, but - They do, like, do you see my arm hair? YouTubers? We don't have arm hair. - Oh, I thought that was wood. That's metal. How did it get to where I wanna see that process. - Well, too bad. Oh. Aren't these illegal? 'Cause they're easy to conceal and you can go wadadadada and look really cool - Yeah, but so are pocket knives. - Yeah, but they don't before you stab somebody. - Gotcha. will wanna stab people. - Gotcha, so as long as the - Yeah. Here's the hatchet. You guys have seen a lot of rusted stuff turned into something cool. So watch this. Here's the final product. I'd saved you time. Cut me off in the middle of my sentence. Thank you so much for...