- So I have a job. It's a weird job, I get, I get in strange situations in my job. I get exposed to things. I'm often there when the Big Guy's up to something ridiculous. Like, for example, did you know that for every snake on Earth And at first it might think, well, yeah, that makes sense, but, but actually, you know, only And that means, that every snake that And that's a true fact about our world. That's the kind of as I'm doing my job. And that job is to eliminate distraction. And you seem like distractions. (soft music) You know, the tails on don't serve any aerodynamic purpose. (players laughing) - I feel very threatened all of a sudden (players laughing) - They're there because birds when they're trying to kill a butterfly. And they're designed to capture And that bird will grab onto and the butterfly will be free. That is how I imagine my work sometimes. Something things have to go. I do not think that you are the tail of a swallowtail butterfly. I think you might be the butterfly. - I only, I only caught half of that. (players laughing) Justin looks and says, I'll tell you anything you want to know. (players laughing) - All right, so, eyes can't be itchy. The membranes around the eyes are innervated with itch whereas the eyes themselves because of course, evolution to prevent you from scratching your cornea with your fingernail. So your eyes are never actually itchy. People say my eyes are They're not actually itchy, it's just the membranes around your eyes. Did that make you feel better? - What do you do with - I say in his ear, I say, hi, I don't know if we've Did you know that more than are in your hands and feet? - Oh no. threatening thing I've ever heard. - And legitimately, your fun (players laughing) - Imagine if someone said - As he's holding you. - You see the guy just Fucking just kill me, man, - Well, why are you trying to hurt us? - I suck, man, kill me. I'm bad. - I need you to answer the question. - I don't know, dude. - Remind him of the fact again. - Whenever somebody says, &quot;I'm gonna break every bone in your body&quot;, I think, that's ridiculous. It'd be way too much work. But I could break half - No, no man, no way. He's just snapping his own fingers. (players laughing) - Did you know... - My heart starts beating faster . (players laughing) - The urethra contains taste receptors. - Ew, ugh. - Bro, slow down, what? - I'm gonna tell you, eagles, when they grip onto something, they actually have to So a eagle can hold onto something so hard that even after it But you are not an eagle, you need to let go of whatever this is. Mr. Bishop, you're looking lovely today. Did you know that most of the pyramids on Earth are in Sudan? - [Player] Huh? - You like my facts, right? - See, he looks at you and says, how does that help us, Fix? - Anyway, I killed the kid. (players laughing) If you don't mind me (players laughing) have three stomachs, and one You know, it's really but it's not easy to detect or carbon dioxide. But when carbon dioxide meets water, like it does in our blood, And that means that our bodies can detect the presence of carbon dioxide, but not the presence or absence of oxygen. (bell dings) So as we live through our lives, if we are deprived of oxygen, we have no idea that that is happening as long as we are breathing But if we are not breathing in oxygen, we just go to sleep and we die. But if we allow the CO2 We flail, we break, until finally we die. And I look at, I look Did you know that people that it will back up and And as they are finally it can have an effect on that they forget who they are. It's called constipation related amnesia. A woman in Tokyo forgot who - Shit yourself stupid. - My job is that is hyper fixation. And so sometimes when the with stupid stuff, I'm around. I find out things like Can you take a deep breath for me? (Brennan squelches) - And he just in front of you and he goes, I think you wanted me to shit? I don't know, you're so frightening. I still took a shit, everyone shit! everyone who works for me shit now!&quot; - Everyone take a deep breath, - &quot;We gotta do it now, you gotta do now. He runs over and you and everywhere, all over Mentopolis, everyone driving with you see claxons going all over. There are very few emergency systems that the city has put in place (players laughing) that are basically like air raid sirens. - Where is this going? - (imitating sirens) And you just hear, We are shitting, we are shitting. We are shitting, the big guy is shitting, we are taking a shit. - I do not wanna be on the - Do you wanna know - Okay. - You catch up with me whenever you want. - I just tell her so much about bones. Bones are actually living. And do you know that the reason we produce blood inside of our bones is because it's one of the places that's safest from UV radiation? Just fun facts. They're not scary. (players laughing) - Um, that's fascinating. Did you know... (players laughing) Did you know that there that have a secondary or in their digestive tract refered to as a craw, that has to help break up food matter before it passes into the - There are also some a kind of nutritious instead of regurgitating they will produce a kind of milk. It's almost like lactation, Gives it a case of convergent evolution. Pigeons do it. - See, did you know that pigeons? (players laughing) - Let's go, let's go, let's go, come on. - I feel like I'm watching chess. (players laughing) - You quickly realize you have (players laughing) Did you know that woodpeckers called a hyoid bone that because the pounding into you know, that needs from the impact of that you know, smashing into you know, devour their common meal items, which of course are - I didn't know, I didn't know. - Can I do a snoop check to (players laughing) - And I say nervously, that feed their babies their own skin. Uh, I gotta go. Can I flick 'em on the forehead You know, you can't hum while You know, you can't hum while Give it a try. (muffled humming) Where are the key holes? - Mr. Fix! - He gives you a big hug and he says, did you know that the black at top speeds of 12 and at its fastest slither? And that at that speed it even some of the fastest - I did not know that. - Mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm. - Even faster people would because the resting or average speed is seven and a half miles per hour, which is faster than the And that's for healthy adults. - You know so much stuff. - I made a drawing of which is actually the longest, did you know it's the It's not the biggest, the but the longest is the reticulated python. - You know what the longest - No, what is it? - It's the bootlace worm. - Is that a reptile? - It's not a reptile, but - But that's close, that's the cool fact, that's pretty close. (players laughing) - Clearly not interested. - Honestly, interacting with kids, whenever you interact with kids, there needs to be one and here's something too. And the kid just glazes - I'm sorry, wait, wait. Sorry that's not a reptile. - Lemme make, I actually wanna make sure, I believe the reticulated python is the longest snake in the world. - Boy, if you get this wrong. - I don't have that one in my head. - Get in the comments! - Yeah, reticulated python, - Did you know that that have a light sensing so they can sense shadows that might be coming from It's like a third eye. - As you say that you on Ronnie's head and he goes, (gasps) there's a shadow downstairs. - Oh my God. - That gave me fucking goosebumps. - Ronnie, you're terrifying. - And I'd like you to know that there's little creatures in the sea that make little lights, and they're quite pretty little lights. You can ask officers Juan de Veve, he'll tell you he likes them. - (chuckles) And its C'est Magnifique. (players laughing) - And it's a little strange that those little critters 'cause why would they? They only make 'em when and you think that that from little fishes that want to eat 'em. But here's what happens. Those little fishes, they glow so bright, and now There's a little target on its back. See, that little fish ain't - Shit. - Go ahead and make a menacing, make any kind of check you want. Make whatever check you wanna make. (players laughing) Oh my god. I rolled a one, oh no, I got plus two. - You got plus two. - So he's gonna make his sturdy - How about, Well, I mean look, I don't wanna actually him. - I just, after I said that I punch him. - [Brennan] Oh, you punched him. - Which is the same check for - So, he's gonna roll his sturdy. He rolled a three. Unbelievable. - Oh my god. - He rolled a three. - Just flick him in the forehead. - And then, yeah, he already So, Fix, you go cock back. He goes, wow, that's really interesting. (blows thudding) - I've stepped back. - I heard that you might be Did you know that the North Because when you look at a But the North Pole of the and north poles point to the south poles. So when we go to the North Pole, it's actually the South Pole. I think maybe you also aren't exactly what you've - It's not enough for this. - Write that down. - It's very nice to see you again. Did you know that diners actually originate from And the very first diners were actually dining cars of trains that and were used stationarily as restaurants 'cause they were cheap and affordable. - Fix just looks at her. He can't think of any facts. (players laughing) Like ostriches have a it's not like a true hole, like it's not like a full flesh It's got like a channel that you can, that like actually has a split. So it's just like a where there's not actually a full close and the semen runs down that. If you're curious. - I've never had a Chili That was my first one. I like it. - Would it be like if - It'd be like if human babies ate skin. Hair's really not an easy thing to digest. - That's true. Just like chewing on fingernails. - Although, breast milk is Like it's actually, it but it doesn't have any But it's like the same processes. - That's like the pathway 'Cause everything's based on So it's just like you're outta your nipples. Wild. Wild. Having a baby- - Has given me like a, oh, here's some other new weird shit to learn about. - Yeah. - But, the original evolution, like pre, there's pre nipple lactation, so platypus lactate, but and they just sweat it out. Just like comes out of they just sweat milk. And their baby's like. - So do the babies like lick their skin? - [Hank] Lick it up, - Australia is- - Now, this is Australia's fault. - In Australia that is just beyond the comprehension of mortal man. (players laughing)