It's the early 2000s, and being famous sounds Fame and fortune are timeless objectives, aughts had reached unprecedented levels of Innovations in technology, such as portable celebrities more accessible to their fans their social status to a commentators felt that the only apt comparison was idolatry. To many, these were Gods, untouchable beings had a chance at reaching this status themselves. They just needed to be discovered. Unfortunately, the only surefire way to become was to have starred in the 1989 revival of If you weren't a Mouseketeer, you could pray that you are the best, the most attractive, Short of these strategies, the path to stardom Throughout the 20th century, music competitions For instance, Frank Sinatra got his start on Major Bowes Amateur Hour, With the emergence of television, competitions popular among audiences and successful in However, there were very few active singing a new wave was on it's way. In 2000, ABC began airing a music reality format, Popstars, would begin airing in the Both of these shows sought to find new talent Both programs heavily integrated the elements the winners of the program would be immediately to the record label of the show's producers. In early 2001, the winners of Popstars UK to The Observer's relevancy test was a massive and according to my relevancy test, all five have photos attached. B minus. Popstars US formed Eden's Crush in early Pussycat Dolls lead singer Nicole Scherzinger, have wikipedia pages and only Nicole has a F. Making the Band on ABC had formed O-Town. Of the five original members and one replacement, Also F. Wikipedia is not always correct when Group Relevancy Test does not lie. In 2001, British music and television mogul new programs. Fuller was best known as the manager of the in 1997. Seeking other venture, Fuller attempted to format of his own, The show would begin airing Pop Idol combined multiple successful elements differences that set it apart. First, unlike Popstars and Making the Band, star, not form a group. Second, the show would have live episodes Third, and most importantly, Pop Idol would Fuller hoped that the show's format would the UK's next big recording star, but the boost from the harsh critiques of one of its &quot;I believe you&quot; &quot;About 7 with a bit of a sore throat.&quot; &quot;2.&quot; Cowell became known for his honest and often would make a celebrity out of Simon before Pop Idol was an immediate hit, and was watched the country's population tuned into the The two finalists instantly became charting The winner, Will Young, immediately broke in British history, outperforming The Beatles The show's success in the UK led Fuller in the US, eventually convincing Fox to air The show, renamed began airing on June 11, 2002. American Idol would feature a panel of three Simon Cowell would serve on the American Idol had made him famous on Pop Idol. &quot;I can honestly say, you are the worst singer &quot;Really?&quot; Cowell would be joined by Randy Jackson, a a popstar who had found success in the late Two hosts, Ryan Seacrest and Brian Dunkleman, the competition. The first step in finding the new American in multiple cities throughout the country. Thousands of prospective contestants were few of these singers made it in front of the national television. The contestants that made it to the filmed or bad enough to make compelling TV, with make the process feel realistic. Throughout these first two episodes, Cowell contestants and his fellow judges with how hopeful singers. &quot;Well Jennifer, here's a new word, that was &quot;Thank you.&quot; &quot;Extraordinarily bad.&quot; &quot;Are you taking singing lessons?&quot; &quot;There was this lady up in Montana...&quot; &quot;Do you have a lawyer?&quot; &quot;No. I don't have a lawyer.&quot; &quot;Get a lawyer and sue her.&quot; &quot;I thought you were fantastic.&quot; &quot;I didn't.&quot; The harshness of these critiques was an immediate as was the poor singing ability and lack of self awareness of some of those auditioning. These humorous auditions were presented alongside were immediately relatable their singing abilities, confidence, and denim. &quot;I think I like this. Is that a skirt?&quot; The show had an obvious bias toward singers standards of the early 2000s, a bias that stated explicitly and justified as a necessary attribute for any potential Idol. &quot;The problem I have is that you don't look &quot;And she just sang an Aretha Franklin song.&quot; &quot;I do not believe that if Aretha Franklin this competition, she would win it now. &quot;I don't make the rules.&quot; Evelyn McDonnell, writing for the Miami Herald, obsession with celebrities, strips it bare, it in it own mode and sends This was written two weeks after the show Evelyn, pace yourself, this show might be Whether it was a genuine interest in vocal age of public executions, audiences were hooked The program was the breakout hit of the summer ratings continued to climb. Of the 10,000 auditions, 121 singers were a grueling audition process in which just 30 contestants. After this, the true appeal of the program up to the audience watching at home to decide which contestants moved on The 30 contestants were split into three groups 3 contestants would emerge from each pool, for one additional contestant to round out From there, two contestants were eliminated contestant was eliminated each week. Finally, on September 4, 2002, the Season finale of American Idol aired, and Kelly Clarkson was announced As with Pop Idol, the promise of the show elevated to mainstream stardom. She signed a record deal under Simon Fuller, It was completely fabricated, planned from most industry success stories. The show was filled with these dichotomies, mixed with the democratic. The value or the morality of the program was television audiences. Just one season in, the show was already ratings and star creation, but the phenomenon While thousands of Americans were dreaming of receiving a golden ticket a fake Hollywood in the swamps of Florida Disney-MGM Studios Theme Park had been put after Michael Eisner had become CEO of Walt Eisner had come to the company from Paramount creativity, and knowledge from a pitch he their plans for a Universal Studios production facility, tram tour, and They had plans for a recreation of a golden effects demonstration. They wanted him and Paramount on board. He had been shown the plans. He knew the plans. Allegedly. Less than a year after Eisner took the helm Walt Disney World attraction, named the Disney-MGM Disney planned to build production for both live-action and animation production. This new experience would of a golden age Hollywood Boulevard, a stunt show, a sound effects demonstration and more. Disney entered into a licensing agreement from their film library. Similar licensing deals with Paramount and and modern Hollywood attraction. In late 1986, MCA would finally greenlight Due to Disney-MGM's similarities to Universal's to feature more large scale attractions resembling Meanwhile, The Disney-MGM Studios Tour was which would now feature a tram tour A key feature of both parks would be the film but Disney-MGM was relying on theirs to be with the signature studio tour to last 2 hours. Disney would beat Universal to the punch, on May 1, 1989. Along with the studio tour, the park would famous films as well as a stunt show themed The park also offered several themed dining experiences, and more modest were scattered throughout the park. Just off of the the Mickey Mouse shaped hub audience participants were inserted into their of physical sets and clever compositing. Over the course of the 25 minute show, guests as I Love Lucy and The Howdy Doody Show and Golden Girls. The Disney-MGM Studios Theme success in terms of attendance, but it lacked the breadth of attractions that guests had Disney had already had plans to address this. The popular Disneyland attraction Star Tours and a new Muppets area However, the Disney-MGM had bigger problems than The park was reverse engineered, rather studio, an operating movie studio was created Producers on the West Coast were cautiously of the East, but many were skeptical on Disney's dedication to operating Less than a year into the park's life, design that made production difficult. The New York Street set was placed too close tram stop, which simulated as pyrotechnic explosions and a flood. Sound from this area bled into New York Street these filming locations "virtually useless," now there was less productions to tour, which productions is because of the tram tour. Throughout the 1990s, in almost every instance the vitality of Disney-MGM as an operating Disney-MGM as a theme park, they almost always In 1994, a new expansion more shops and the In 1998, Superstar Television was closed to which opened on March 15, 1999. Doug Live!, was based on the television series the show translated perfectly to stage, with no issues at all. It closed two years later with no planned a prime location in the park empty. In September of 2001, Disney-MGM Studios unveiled the iconic cap from the Sorcerer's Apprentice The Sorcerer's Hat was constructed to celebrate at Walt Disney World, celebrating what would have been the 100th birthday of Walt Disney. Surprisingly, the hat would not be deconstructed an icon of the park and a signifier of a very one that some could be described as a middle At the same time that Disney-MGM Studios was entering its golden age. After the success of the show's first season, put into production, moving the program up 2003. &quot;You sounded like a dog dying.&quot; &quot;The Next American Idol.&quot; Season One had not only created multiple stars, but it had motivated The open-call for auditions saw 70,000 people to begin renting out stadiums The show started splitting the process over just to auditions in Season Two. The number of singers moving on to Hollywood stage now featured multiple elimination rounds, resulting in 32 singers Other changes this season included Brian Dunkleman the sole host. Another exit from the show was the foldable audition table with its This was replaced with a more sturdy and sleek and rawness out of the production. This season also allowed viewers to send their think was due to young people preferring this cell carriers that were using shows such as The rise in texting among young Americans in this period would actually to American Idol pushing it. Another technology evolving alongside the that was dominated by Apple's iPod and iTunes. This added an unprecedented level of freedom instantaneous delivery of singles and albums itself was already expediting the path to The show's supplementary media was already on a tour, recording a compilation album, A spin-off show, American Juniors, sought to create stars out of a and ended up discovering such talent as Kristinia the show made the mistake of trying to form The group, also named American and only Lucy Hale has a wikipedia page. F. American Idol's second season concluded Clay Aiken, and both would find success The show's third season began airing in The season featured more hopeful contestants, the previous season. Five episodes were now dedicated to auditions The nightmare that was the audition process and reputation. Long lines, packed stadiums, and the call all iconic imagery of the full-day affair. For many, this exhausting process was part constant visualization of the improbability making it to the celebrity judges room. The show was also leaning more into the "funny" "funny" audition in the show's history, performance of Ricky Martin's &quot;She Bangs&quot; &quot;She Bangs! She Bangs!&quot; &quot;Thank you.&quot; &quot;Thank you!&quot; This audition was enough to elevate Hung to Many critics speculated if Hung's fame as on humiliation for entertainment, or if the of Hung's performance was being derived. Others took a more optimistic approach, believing resilience was the reason so many fans took Regardless, Hung had become existence of such a success story would motivate humorous auditions than they already were. *perfect goat bleating impression* Along with the showcase of poor singing ability, power in both its winner, its seventh place finisher, Jennifer Hudson. The same year that American Idol Season 3 competition format in the UK named The X Factor. This program was similar to Idol, with a few hands of the judges, and Cowell would get The X Factor's similarities to Idol enraged Cowell over the new program. The two settled out of court, with the reported as judge of American Idol for five additional version of X Factor until after this period. Season 4 of American Idol would begin airing would have one less episode six audition episodes and The show's star-making power was as strong becoming a platinum recording artist within American Idol's 2006 season produced winner Hick would not reach the level of stardom but Season 5 would find a bigger star in fourth Season 6 began airing in January of 2007, This season started with strong viewership ratings gradually began to decline as the Many speculated that this pool of contestants, an over-emphasis on celebrity guests, or the show's focus on the bad singers This season also featured an unexpected run Sanjaya showcased his singing ability in his week were less than stellar. These lackluster, shakey performances became and despite the frustration of the judges, to escape elimination. Ironic voting campaigns for Sanjaya began, his audience to vote for the singer as a joke. &quot;Vote Sanjaya! No! I will vote for Sanjaya! At the same time, Sanjaya developed an authentic looks and hair styles, which he would dramatically Some speculated that Sanjaya was the reason this was proven false, as after his elimination lower, suggesting Sanjaya's presence was However, the existence of a Sanjaya spelled that American Idol fatigue might be setting process just to make the show feel fresh. Despite the show's dip in ratings, this winner, Jordin Sparks. Whether American Idol was a fading star or to be determined, but the program was still and a bright spot in Fox's lineup. In fact, American Idol's position in pop park was seeking to borrow some of its star power. Throughout the early 2000s, the Walt Disney of some of its signature parks. Both Epcot and Disney-MGM Studios were in Both had opened with a unique concept, Epcot's elements and Disney-MGM Studios' being an Both faced unique challenges with their conceit. Epcot could not keep up with the exponential park struggled to maintain that helped fund many of the attractions. Disney-MGM Studios required the park to constantly court and work with film hoping that they set up shop in the park and rigged to go off every twenty minutes. In 2001, Disney-MGM filled one Who Wants to Be a Millionaire - Play It!, an interactive recreation game show, complete with &quot;You just got yourself a million points! Yeah&quot; In 2002, the State of Georgia created a tax entertainment productions to the state, an In the following years, Atlanta would become the production hub that In 2004, with live-action productions already animation studios, officially ending Disney-MGM's While the lack of corporate sponsors for Epcot were huge issues, there was a bigger problem Both Epcot and Disney-MGM were conceived at diversity in their attractions. A vacation to Walt Disney World in the late and fun of an amusement experiences in subjects such as technology, culture, and entertainment production. However, over time, guest demand indicated presentation of storytelling and thrills, was itself For general audiences, two than one thrill ride and one This left Disney-MGM and Epcot in a predicament. With so much infrastructure and attractions needed to pivot to meet the demands of guests without completely abandoning The solution for both would be similar. Epcot would remain a park focused on technology be built that presented these topics in the imaginable. 1999's Test Track and 2003's that focused on key industrial themes, but both did so with a focus on speed and force. Disney-MGM would transition from a park showcasing productions to being a park with attractions 1999's Rock 'n Roller Coaster and 2005's Extreme Stunt Show were still within Disney-MGM's on intensity, and when combined with Star a reputation as a park for older kids who In August of 2007, it was announced that Disney MGM and Disney had been in conflict over the despite Disney still legally having the rights the direction of the park. Many speculated that the the ABC television network or Pixar Studios, both of which had been acquired by Disney. However, the new name for the park would simply to point out that there were no longer operating Despite new attractions and the name change, An attraction so appealing that every Walt time to visit the park. Disney's Hollywood Studios needed a star, An experience that would keep the park above not get enough of, Toy Story. In 2007, it was announced that a new interactive be coming to Disney's Hollywood Studios. This shooting dark ride would utilize 3D imagery guests to participate in a series of carnival At the same time that Imagineers were working themed to American Idol. In February 2008, Disney announced that they Media and 19 Entertainment, the producers based on the show. This new attraction would empty by Doug Live! in the The description of the attraction seemed to Television and Who Wants to Be A Millionaire the park's own version of the American Idol Early plans indicated that the attraction 14 and up, competing in a dramatic singing Disney Parks chairman Jay Rasulo indicated industry experience, three audience members with a Disney Cast Member serving as host as a Ryan Seacrest type. While many of the details were still being did reveal the attraction's grand prize pass to an actual American Idol audition, Idol hopefuls from trudging through the dreadfully Disney, Fremantle, and 19 Entertainment clarified in the producers' decision making, only that There were still many questions about how within a theme park. It was predicted that the American Idol attraction just one grand prize would be awarded. It was estimated that around 400 guests would Initial concept art indicated ABC Television Theater would occur, with a grand entrance alongside Echo Lake. However, this planned renovation with the theater's exterior with the most notable addition Disney celebrated the announcement of the Hollywood Studios in the vein of those seen that said "disney Rocks," "Hi Mom," Throughout early 2008, the stage of the Superstar that closely resembled the set of the show, consulted on the design. The set featured a 35 foot by 7 foot video and 113 video screens. While the attraction was being designed and and the ratings for the show continued to fall. The brightest spot of the season was the thrilling David Archuleta after the competition received the highest finale vote total After Cook's win, he shouted the iconic phrase "I'm going to Disney World! Whoo!" and a commercial was created same format as the famous series of Disney Super Bowl advertisements. The commercial featured a rendition of &quot;When &quot;When You Wish...&quot; This display of synergy between the Fox show have been surprising to many viewers, but not to the theme park news, but to the true since their inception the Disney Parks have had Coca-Cola, and anyone that has watched American program also has a close partnership with &quot;You're a sweetheart. You're a sweet soul,&quot; *Simon slurping that sweet Coca-Cola* After nearly a year of development on the named the American Idol Experience, was ready A few soft opening previews occurred in January of 2009 to work out the format, but the official opening would not Finally, on February 12, 2009, Disney rolled round of hopeful pop stars to take the stage A gala was held to celebrate the attraction's Journalists from around the country were invited or video taped it in 144p, the event appeared Corralled theme park guests, journalists, carpet, and a special motorcade was held with Special guests including Ryan Seacrest, Paula Abdul, and multiple recent For the first time ever, all seven American hicks, Carrie Underwood, Fantasia Barrino, together. An actual run of the American Idol Experience with guests competing in the singing competition, real ones. The big show of the day in which the American focused very little on the attraction and to multiple musical performances, including Ryan Seacrest came out to host the show, and Ryan Seacrest type host. Every American Idol celebrity guest were asked First, was the American Idol Experience like &quot;Apparently it looks exactly &quot;Looks just like American Idol in Hollywood.&quot; &quot;It is very, very realistic.&quot; &quot;It's fantastic. It's very exciting&quot; Second, what advice do you have for those &quot;Just have fun.&quot; &quot;You gotta have fun.&quot; &quot;Enjoy life.&quot; &quot;Be responsible and, uh, and go to school.&quot; During the press event, all a trophy by Ryan and series creator Simon Fuller. This microphone-shaped trophy was created statuettes, and was to be awarded on the actual The seven American Idol winners were awarded forced to hold them for several minutes while was announced. Gold confetti rained down, and fireworks exploded It was truly an American Idol Experience, The attraction received great reviews from dazzled by the literal parade of stars, but this was not an accurate What was this going to be when Carrie Underwood And when Ryan Seacrest wasn't hosting? What actually was the American Idol Experience? Two days after the gala, on February 14th, opened to guests. For those wanting to participate in the show, the experience began the &quot;I thought I would take you in and show you what Here at the American Idol Experience. The hopeful idols would be directed to the they would find the American Idol Experience This backstage area was just as themed as try out were taken through a unique themed Guests were handed an audition card with a from for their audition, including from &quot;Bohemian Pocahontas, &quot;Achy Breaky Heart&quot; by Billy Ray Cyrus, and &quot;Play My The first stage of the process was an acapella in a private room. This intricately themed room was a 1:1 recreation of people get their dreams crushed in across audition process. It even had a desk. There were four private casting rooms. After touring the attraction, Canadian Idol authentic" and that "the office part with like when I auditioned." Most guests would be rejected at this point and given some advice for The few that did make it forward moved on given an iPod with the most intense security their performance and familiarize themselves This room was also referred to as &quot;The Coke Room&quot; which was a reference to or a way to really prepare Auditioners would then be called into a second This room was even more impressive, featuring and a camera to capture the performance. If the guest passed this audition, they were &quot;You get to go into the show!&quot; At this point, they would be assigned to one of the seven preliminary the day, and they were allowed to go explore their call time, which would be an hour before Once they returned, guests waited in a green and a practice room in which a vocal coach Finally, before the crowd was allowed into their song on stage. To those visiting Disney's Hollywood Studios Experience, they entered the Superstar Television The unique covered pre-show corral was originally a ramped design that matched the slope of At the bottom of this was an area in which In Superstar Television, this is where guests In the American Idol Experience, guests would described the process that the performers A preshow host would then enter to hype up The preshow host would then film a brief segment, in order to surprise one of the contestants After this, the crowd would enter the theater finally begin. The preliminary show lasted around 25 minutes. The pre-show host would come out and get the audience for the group of performers. &quot;And start rockin' like this.&quot; After this, a short intro would play on the large screen. This would lead into a faux credits sequence, with the names of that on the screen. After this, the Ryan Seacrest type would come introducing the three contestants as they The host would then introduce the grand prize, *American Idol music* The coveted front-of-the line pass Golden Ticket that sent Idol It was described as the best FastPass ever. FastPass. (echoing) *American Idol music* The age range for the competition was, according "14 and death," despite the having an age range between 16 and 28. The host would explain that the winner of friend or family member, but they were not The three contestants were asked to leave introduced. The original plan to have audience members of three actors portraying the American Idol Randy Jackson, Paula Abdul, and Simon Cowell. In order to make the three actors seem qualified listed out by the host. This part is almost like a magic trick, because role such as this at the park would already projects on it, so the host reading them makes judges and not just working performers past While the panel was switched out with portrayal was that the Randy type would be The Paula type would be the most positive, and the Simon type, somewhat Of course, fake Simon could &quot;Juvenile, tuneless, mediocre and horrible.&quot; &quot;Simon was in a bad mood.&quot; as this was Disney World and the contestants are paying park guests, but he would be as the line. The audience was encouraged to boo fake-Simon The three contestants would come out one at Before their performance, they would be given The first was pre-taped advice from an American &quot;Just have fun with it.&quot; These segments were filmed and the contestant that the Idol was speaking directly to them. The second introduction was a video biography waited for their performance. These would hone in on an interesting, relatable, in a similar way that the tv show treated &quot;What brought be to American Idol was, &quot;At one point in my life, I found myself homeless, The final introduction was a crowd of fans This was the surprise that the audience had The crowd shot was a way to in the show, and it was a nice surprise for the singer, even though this moment was completely &quot;Joey, you're my American Idol&quot; These were fake fans, literally. Each performance would last about 90 seconds from each judge. *American Idol Music* Reportedly, the producers of the attraction the final spot in hopes that the recency bias After all of the contestants had performed, pretaped Idol cameo featuring Jordin Sparks, of "I've Got the Music in Me." For clarification, "I've Got the Music it is not &quot;You Are the Music in Me&quot; by the cast of High School Musical 2, just a few feet away in Coincidentally, this video featured Jordin the Sorcerer's Hat, along with footage of After this, voting would begin, and highlights reminding audience members of each contestant's The voting mechanism was embedded in the seat's was polled and the results were tallied. The Ryan Seacrest type would round up the The lights on stage turned red, and just like read a recap of their performance and the The Ryan type would often make a joke about &quot;Should we cut to like a Ford video or something? Before finally revealing the winner. Another pretaped Idol would and the Ryan type would wrap up the show, just beginning, because the winner of this Ticket, but rather the opportunity to move show that would be occurring later that evening. There were as many as seven preliminary shows for a spot in the finale. Each preliminary show's winner would move competing in the final show. If a singer moved onto the finale, they were allowed to that they had paid to enter before their second call time of at the attraction an hour before showtime. The final show began with the seven contestants and then the judges. This show would last around 40 minutes, 15 to account for the additional contestants. Each singer would take the stage one-by-one, contestant's video biography if they had The last performer to be introduced would was the only segment to be reshot for the sense of audience participation. The finale show was unique in that it was outside of the attraction near Echo Lake, was being broadcast live, which was technically After all of the singers had performed, an screen and speak to the full group of contestants. The audience would vote for the finale's results, eliminating one or two of the final remained on stage. After stalling as long as possible, the Ryan confetti rained down as the Golden Dream Ticket. The show closed with more pre-taped appearances by multiple Idol winners to the newly crowned waved goodbye, and the American Idol Experience concluded for the day. &quot;You never know you could be the next American Idol.&quot; From an audience perspective, the attraction Fans of the experience loved how similar the competition was to the Others felt that the experience was merely the competitors of any given show were not was more common. However, from the perspective of the performers, intricately themed adventure through the world Idol, culminating with them getting to perform more than most karaoke bars or school talent Even those that were not chosen to perform the Disney Cast Members tasked with turning kind and impressively trained in the art of &quot;So good job. I can't pass you through today.&quot; Others on the other hand, still felt a bit One forum poster at the time explained their during soft opening as a bit of fun, not expecting did "feel a little bad the rest at the park for the rest of the day after &quot;It's all part of the experience.&quot; The cruelty of the Simon-type judge also depended most of the time, this character's biggest take singing lessons, some comments could It sounded like a Norse God gargling a hammer. The mean-spirited nature of the character not in line with the expectations a Disney Compare this to Monsters Inc Laugh Floor, in 2007. This virtual puppetry show relies on audience club, but the furthest the monster comedians a random person in the audience is going to Completely toothless, cowardly even, to look World tourists and pull punches like that, So the furthest you should go is saying that dance." I guess in-universe the funniest Mike Wazoski gets is just getting racked organs on the bottom crest of his sphere body, and children is a big risk, and if you're themed environment is a reality show, you should probably just go Fake Simon, at times, did not fall in line In these instances, the attraction's reception legitimately offended and others finding it However, reception was not the main issue Daily operation was. The elaborate nature of the competition required When auditioning, guests were told that, if of their park day would be dedicated to the This was around half of the park's operating On top of this, contestants could not join make them miss their callback time. Disney did sometimes offer so they could enjoy the park, but for the most part, the American Idol Experience was For many, this was not an issue, and they Dream ticket winner Claire Ann Martin said, Idol experience. We heard about it online, and we decided that Claire also said that "getting the ticket She was only fourteen at the time, so that's fine. The biggest issue that the operations team with the attraction's debut created a web page with information on the also a minigame called &quot;Judge This&quot;, *Idol Music* &quot;Lalalalalalalala La la lalalaa&quot; &quot;Hoi derr laadaa daadda der, Aayagh, aahg&quot; Nice, I got a dawg from the Randy Type! &quot;Old McDonald had a farm. E I E III OOO&quot; &quot;Take me out to the ball game. &quot;Row, row, row your boat.&quot; *Audience cheers* Just look at that graphic in the corner. On this site, guests could sign up to audition The attraction would mainly rely on walk-ins, shows were filled or at 2 The American Idol Experience refreshing pool of contestants, making daily operation less predictable than a typical theater show, but there were The American Idol Experience's debut in in the history of Disney, the American Idol The most obvious was the Great Recession, was being developed and was still ongoing At the same time that Disney was developing feeling the effects of the economic downturn, to spend money on vacations. Considering the scale of the recession, the thanks in part to Disney such as free admission on a guest's birthday. Still, the company layed off 1400 people at These layoffs began four days after the American Apart from the recession, another global trend The accessibility of the internet was growing share media was becoming easier and easier, were being discovered on For instance, Justin Bieber became the world's served his time in the gauntlet of shame known The internet took the American Idol competition, it look like a slow process in comparison. The American Idol Season 7 finale set the but the show itself was dipping in the ratings. The show's fifth season which aired in 2006 per episode. By the show's eigth season in 2009, this episodes, and the ratings would continue to slip. And more change was on its way. When Season 8 began airing in 2009, songwriter panel of judges. While DioGuardi no doubt had the industry what this change meant for the future of Idol Rumors circulated that Paula Abdul was set both Abdul and DioGuardi. Season 8 attempted to scale back on the show's trademark cruelty, putting contestant biographies, which were derogatorily &quot;Um, I live with my 93-year-old grandmother.&quot; &quot;Do you know that I sing?&quot; &quot;Do I what?&quot; This season was won by Kris Allen, who beat Allen taped his own Walt Disney World commercial, and traveled to the resort at the American Idol Experience. Allen also filmed new segments for the attraction, &quot;And I know they'd appreciate any encouragement&quot; &quot;Just get out there and have fun.&quot; Despite denying her intention to leave the on Twitter that she would not be returning being cited as the reason. Simon, Randy, and DioGuardi would be returning, seat before the next season. They needed to find someone who was marketable, &quot;I... am... the next... American Idol... judge.&quot; This was also the season in which General Pants on the Ground, which to this day, is still charting #1 in the &quot;Pants on the ground! Pants on the ground! Looking like a fool with The top five this season featured singer Aaron in the competition at just 16 years old when eliminated. Kelly is also notable in that he was a Golden front of the line at his American Idol audition at Disney's Hollywood Studios. After his top five finish, Kelly would be of the value of the Golden Dream Ticket. Season 9 of American Idol was won by Lee Dewyze, did a Walt Disney World commercial, made an Idol experience, and filmed segments for the &quot;The best advice I can give After Season 9, the judging panel experienced and most notably, Simon Cowell leaving the DioGuaridi and Degeneres explained the show was more predictable. The period stipulated by the settlement with leave American Idol and launch X Factor in Cowell would not only premiere the show, but do so, once again enraging Simon Fuller. Fuller again sued, seeking executive producer settled out of court. X Factor in the UK had proven to be a starmaker, One Direction. The US version would find success in the group The same year that X Factor debuted, another The Voice was a format that originated in The show's format and marketing was a direct too focused on a contestant's appearance Get it? The show's positive attitude and inspiring, of friendly competition and genuinely beautiful mainstream recording artists as winners. The actual reason for The Voice's success launcher, with a few runner-ups as exceptions, sell more records, but also, that might be With Cowell moving on to X Factor, DioGuardi back to Ellen, Idol was forced to go in a While Randy Jackson would remain, two new Jennifer Lopez and Aerosmith frontman Steven Studios signature E-ticket Rock N' Roller This season was won by Scotty McCreery. The first winner since the attraction opened to not receive an &quot;I'm going but he did visit the resort and &quot;Do you have any advice? &quot;Have fun.&quot; Ocassionally, other contestants would experience, which were often played outside of the attraction on the big screen. &quot;Head right around the corner &quot;You never know, this could be Season 11 began airing in 2012, with Ryan for another year. This season featured tenth place finisher Erika Van Pelt, another American Van Pelt told the Hollywood Reporter "The for me. I had auditioned for the show several times game-changer. American Idol Experience gave me a taste of -- live audience voting, charismatic hosts The Dream Ticket gave me the opportunity to in Pittsburgh for season 11, which ultimately I am so grateful for the opportunity." This season was won by Phillips took a trip to the resort, appeared on stage at the attraction &quot;Let me ask you something. These three right here, they are competing to get to win that Dream Ticket. What advice do you...&quot; &quot;To have fun.&quot; Idol's ratings continued to drop, with Season episode, far from the 30 million viewers it After Season 11, another shakeup on the judging Randy Jackson would again return, but Lopez Keith Urban would join the panel, along with Mariah Carey and Nicki have an alleged off screen feud that would leading fans of both to speculate on the matter, &quot;We can have accessories? I didn't know that going to say.&quot; &quot;Again, back to the Billboard you just performed, which is difficult This season was won by Candice Glover, who for the attraction. &quot;Have fun.&quot; Another shakeup on the judging panel occurred and Mariah leaving, but with Randy Jackson Only Keith Urban remained from the previous and returning judge Jennifer Lopez. This season featured multiple Dream Ticket Ben Briley, and Emily Priz, who would finish This season ended in May of 2014, with Caleb Unlike previous winners, Johnson's trip to Disney World but he did reportedly go, and film However, these segments would not be seen was undergoing just as much change as the In the years following the Disney Hollywood American Idol Experience, the Walt Disney growth and acquisitions. In late 2009, Disney acquired and in 2012, the company acquired Lucasfilm, including the rights to the Star Wars franchise. These acquisitions meant the development of the latter being necessary to compete with Harry Potter. Of all four Walt Disney World parks, it was outside of the company that if any park was would be Disney's Hollywood Studios. This was not only because of the presence of the park's desperate need for a new major Toy Story Midway Mania had given the park a boost its debut, no other major attractions were To offset this, the park relied on special in June of 2014. This event brought temporary offerings to the park, capitalizing on the massive success of 2013's Frozen and the young guests. During this event, a new show named "For Celebration" took place in the rarely utilized sing-along to the film's songs, led by Anna, These types of temporary experiences were and many guests assumed that it was only a was announced for the park. However, before any expansions were revealed, and on June 17, 2014, the American Idol Experience The attraction's popularity had declined On many days, the experience did not recruit shows, resulting in some showtimes being canceled and a condensed finale show Occasionaly, only two preliminary rounds were two contestants, and on some rare occasions, rounds and no finale. This was especially troubling because of how The show needed a preshow host, a Ryan type, three judges, multiple camera techs for each show. On top of this, the audition facility had to judge them, and hair and makeup technicians. It was an impressive operation, but a complicated The American Idol Experience's decline in it was directly correlated with the declining Not only was the attraction not as enticing of skipping the audition line was not as valuable A joint statement between Disney, FremantleMedia, proud of the more than 2,000 Dream Tickets very own Cinderella story and audition for The attraction was set to close in January Idol Experience running for just under six However, two months after the announcement revealed that the show would be closing even On August 30, 2014, the final show of the Folks, are you ready? For the last finale show ever? Guests crowded the theater to send off the their disappointment at its closure. The final show ended with the dumping of every and this went on for several minutes. The closing of the American Idol Experience of Hollywood Studios. The following month, the Studio Backlot Tour, in over a decade, finally closed to make and Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge. The following month, in October of 2014, it be removed as well. Hollywood Studios began a leaving it in a worse state than before, as the massive construction projects caused the of more temporary ones. The Superstar Television theater sat empty The space was briefly used for the Comedy comedy troupe that used to perform at the Comedy Warehouse at Downtown The American Idol stage was still intact, for these shows. In March of 2015, Disney announced that For Celebration would return for the second annual Rather than being held in the Premiere Theater, utilize the Superstar Television theater. The American Idol theming had been mostly the Hyperion Theater. This would allow the theater to act as flex On June 16, 2015, performances of For the Celebration began in the theater. Despite this being announced as a limited attractions after Frozen Summer Fun ended, Idol Experience. The Hyperion Theater would not be used for Nights ticketed event, during which it would host What's This? Tim Burton's The This temporary show would only be performed operated as normal throughout On the backside of the theater, the former into a new character spot for the park, named Season 14 of American Idol premiered in January the entire judging panel from the previous Despite the American Idol Experience attraction were still eligible to be redeemed. Dream Ticket winner Adam Ezegelian auditioned This season was won by Nick Fradiani, and don't recognize that name, which is proof cultural consciousness. This is why it was not a shock that Fox announced, that American Idol would This season premiered in early 2016, and was Trent Harmon, and if you can tell me which it up, you will win this certificate. This season was branded as American Idol The but not to the show, only the network. Just a year and a half after going off the air, ABC revive the show, which would return for a Ryan Seacrest returned as host, and a new Perry, and Lionel Richie, would join the show. This group has, somehow, remained consistent &quot;There's no place like American Idol.&quot; American Idol is representative of America name, and our obsession with the Idolization the name. It's difficult to say anything about American overtly and unabashedly. Often, the show was cruel, which it claimed The show was obsessed with body image and of stardom. The show sought to discover and promote talent very clearly was the whole point. It's difficult to dismiss any of these beliefs as successful in churning out legitimate mainstream stars. American Idol didn't invent the reality or the aesthetic requirements of early aughts of all three. It was a reflection of the culture of that staple of it. The American Idol Experience attempted to capture and distill that theme park attraction, to mixed results. The attraction did its best to balance the being entertaining, to theme park guests, but its success was directly that it was based on. Whether it was the shakeup in its cast, the falling out of love with television and in Idol Experience debuted, American Idol was The American Idol television show survived that, like its contemporaries, is less concerned However, The American Idol Experience was and its real estate too valuable, to survive was undergoing. The attraction is most fondly remembered by the full thing. The elaborate backstage audition process, like no other at a theme park, and for those spend an entire day's admission on participating, desk.