- [Man] Hey, everyone. Have you ever wished you can This is Reacher with Mind's Eye Design and here are seven folding Number seven. How cool would it be to in the world? If you own one of these, that's an option you can take advantage of. The wing house is a little integrated into a standard The ease with which you can a dwelling that is suitable It starts with a 20 or 40 foot container providing 452 and 883 square Each unit comes completely and telephone. There's also pipes in the Units can be joined end are stacked to create larger structures making them suitable for a After arriving on site, it to have a fully functioning or equipment needed to set one up. A variety of floor plans are with prices ranging from Number six. Designer Richard Perkin he also quit his job of 10 into his dream of living a with no environmental impacts. Noha Bios is a two story that folds down into the for easy transport if needed. Each floor of this not so tiny with a seven foot ceiling below and a five to eight foot ceiling up top. An open plan kitchen and to service storage areas for belongings while the unit is being transported. Perkin's goals is for the no matter where you move. He plans to incorporate a composting systems for all organic waste as well as gray water recycling. He also wants to make the design available to as many people as possible from off the shelf so that anybody can at a minimum cost. The cost of the prototype the $22,000 range. Number five. EBS block is a modular prefab created from a 20 foot shipping container. Each has a basic structure and comes in three models. The structure is open and in about five minutes. And since the deployment there's no construction needed. Its innovative design of 581 square feet. This space can be partitioned a dining area, kitchen, with laundry facilities. There's also the option to place if extra living space is needed. Thermal insulation technology of the internal building of the outside which helps the and maintain warmth in the winter. Pricing is dependent on and specifications. Additionally, the company which offers limitless Number four. The MADI is a 21 foot high A frame that comes in several sizes up to 904 square feet. Each two level home kitchen, and bathroom on the lower floor with the bedrooms on the upper. Rooftop solar panels, LED and a gray water system Additionally, the and h bag systems are already in place. The multifunctional prefab via truck to its building site. Once there, it can be six to seven hours by three workers. The home can be installed as a temporary or permanent structure. Owners have the option by adding more modules the home's opening and closing movement. Each home takes about 30 from the day of the initial order. The approximate price range is Okay, everyone. Before you run out to in shipping containers, to hit the subscribe button below and don't forget to click the bell icon to stay up to date on all from Mind's Eye Design. Number three. This luxury home by and most iconic today. The house is designed signature breeze space which Expensive glass windows open interior that maximizes and clean air flow. The house itself is 2,140 square feet. It has three bathrooms and offering an option for a four. The house comes with electrical and h bag systems and low flow fixtures to help save water. Each home is factory in less than three months. There's also the option of offering the flexibility or a home workspace. Unless most of the homes on this list, the breeze house does to deploy on. Companies currently only with a base cost for the Number two. The Tri-Tainer by Excalibur for use in situations where such as disaster relief areas There are two floor plans, and one with 431 square feet. And like most on this 20 foot shipping container. Once on site, the self lifting jacks. Deployment can then be by two people manually hydraulic system. Each unit comes with a and has a 172 gallon tank for fresh water. An integrated skylight polycarbonate 250 times allows natural lighting in Solar panels at a 185 are options as well. The interior can be It's also possible for the remote control, allowing for use in multiple applications. Before we show our number one pick, we'd like to ask you to which of these folding As always, we read every comment Number one. Ten Fold Engineering has raised the bar on what a folding structure should be. These homes incorporate the of a solid building into a Each one is made of only three components, the pods, the panels, and the chase. They're designed to be yet ready to use upon deployment. No foundation is needed that adjust for uneven ground. Additionally, no builders needed on site. Once the unit is set, the expansion occurs from the central chasi. It self deploys with a touch to about three times its transport size. Furniture and appliances with room for power systems, h bag, and any other needed equipment. The modularity of the components or replacement without the other systems. The interchangeable pods any arrangement of to suit almost any purpose. They can even be stacked and to create larger structures. There are no geographical can be installed which allows including offices, restaurants, schools, and medical facilities. The company is licensing their technology so that existing manufactures and assemble the product They help lower production employment on the local There are multiple on the company's website. Pricing will be depended on and other logistics. - Hey, guys. This is Katsy. I hope you guys enjoyed this video. Tell us in the comments the most interesting and why. Also, if you haven't done so yet, make sure to hit the bell notification next to the subscribe with all of our latest videos. Thank you for watching. I'll see you guys next time.