- [Kyle] The caviar dish is a dish that highlights a small lettuce that we grow that's called Salanova. (upbeat music) - This is Michaelangelo. He's one of our externs the Salanova lettuce for - First we're gonna take and we're gonna save these for a puree that goes As we get closer to the when we get to these medium-sized these for a garnish on the Salanova dish. The bigger leaves, medium leaves, and then we have the in the middle of the dish. - [Andrew] You can see how much faster he is at this than me, I feel like you've done three in the time that I've done one, Michael. - I've gone from thinking about caviar where it's a star of like this one where it's really Like this is really about the greens and a lot of the flavors on that. So we have puree of the Salanova. We have the fresh Salanova Rather than being a caviar dish, this is like a vegetable (lively music) This is my wife, Katina. This is her farm. It's about seven minutes and we grow most, not - So it's a little bit And we come out here and just gather all of the items that the So these are just really with the blossoms attached. The kitchen is often fond of these. - These are the first We have not tasted these tomatoes yet. I'll bring some of these in and we will get them on - [Katina] Yeah, that's great. - So great. We start harvest at 5:00 AM every day. And then every day at in from the farm and (smooth music) It is at 9:00 AM here in This is Marley Brown, she's the head chef for the restaurant. We are starting to make breakfast, sending breakfast up to the rooms. The first chefs arriving the the day started. They're building the fire in the hearth, they're making breakfast So this is a very traditional but we do our Sonoma version of it. So what's growing from our farm, what's in season here, but all of all the side dishes and This is the first of many donabe This is our main cooking tool. We'll see that in the service tonight. So this is salmon that's from Kyoto, cooked in cedar. So this is homemade tofu, all coming from farm vegetables, but this is a Sonoma take on a traditional Japanese breakfast. These are the beautiful squash blossoms, all of the flats of all the greens. So rather than the farm cutting that, we actually have the chefs come out and clip all of their This is shiso. - This is the first of the It makes umeboshi a So we're gonna start It's super exciting. - We're really a restaurant that's driven primarily by what's coming from the farm and what the vegetables are. And so we have different and basically we're highlighting all the different parts of the plant. - So these were just They just came in this morning. This is for our squash sashimi. Right now Chef Darius really beautiful ribbons into nice size and then get ribboned out onto the sashimi dish. We're trying to create So after they're all ribboned out, we compress them in a kombu So this is the madai We typically scale it, starting up towards the head after off the bone and then salt - So this is all very classic This is really about precision to the final slicing and getting be exactly the same is only how the dish looks, but how it eats. It all impacts what ultimately No pressure, Julian. You know, I think like we're very timing oriented. So when in the guests walk and we hand them a welcome beverage. The chef who's slicing the sashimi course is standing So when they walk up, for their second course. Our farmers are working for months sometimes like a year on that night. So it's a kind of our responsibility as chefs to like showcase - So this is what I was thinking for the squash blossom - Yeah. It's great. - Yeah, I think this would be really nice. Let's give it a go for tonight - Okay. That's great. And then we also have the of the, the belly and of the fish that we kind of into the squash blossoms So you're getting all and all the parts of the It's jubako, which So the sashimi sits underneath. This sits on top. There's the raw part of on the bottom. And then the cook part of on the top. We do a lot of cooking here called donabe, something So right now it's a steamed black cod. We wrap it in leaves from a, a green that Katina grows called We, we uh, we wrap the fish in that. Then we wrap it in the like of the outside of the bamboo tree. - So this is the final step of the process here before So Chef Dakota here is taking bamboo skin which he soaked in hot out some of the more Now he's wrapping each individual piece of cod like a little parcel. So it's ready for steaming in the donabe. - So we're looking for this to steam getting bubbles around the side here the reason why we're we want this to be really really clean aromatically in front of the guests. So this is kind of like the workhorse to And we serve that at the table. We really kind of opened up the table so the guests can get of the fish and actually see We like to try to introduce of clay pot cooking. Last we're serving this with sauce that's made from grilled bones of the cod mixed with the And we also serve this - These are the depths You can see that there're - Our sort of like main course dish and the only place where you actually see like land animal is the duck dish. - So we like to age 'em a You can see up here, these in the week before that in a row and have 'em face the the fans so that they get And then every morning, he takes the ducks that And then he's gonna go and hang them in the So from here, Blake's gonna hang 'em up. It's gonna allow the fat from the ducks to render a little bit. But also it's gonna on some of that almond wood flavor. They looked super dry right they'll get nice and glossy. Throughout his prep day Blake so they all get an even And so that we're not actually We're just trying to, and take on some of the - So it's two o'clock in the kitchen. The way that Chef Kyle and it's designed this way you can see we're not about this time, everyone's projects so we can move on It's cleaning into breakdown. We have a large breakdown list. Everybody has their own from scrubbing the top counters to polishing all of the - It's taken us a while, but down for, for cleaning Everybody knows that they en place put away around and everybody can get right to their job so we can get this done in 10, 15 minutes. - One of the reasons why and completely reset the kitchen is because we are open kitchen, full transparency for the guests. - What Chef Kai here is working on is one of the 10 items that we have It's an homage to a Kyoto-style sushi. Kai always gets mad at me because I eat all his pesto This is one of those projects He starts by laying out some of the bachelor's buttons and you start to see and then he is gonna roll it so that it firms up and then And there's a beautiful the fish, and the pesto rice. - So it's 3:30 PM and it's Things are moving. Things are moving. These are the, the tables here. So we know how many guests are coming in and what table they're gonna be on. First dish that we serve at SingleThread the changes every day, right now it's called Late Spring in Sonoma. This section here is like because every guest has 10 dishes. And so in the first So that's 80 plates they have to make. 15 minutes later you probably 15 minutes later, another 60. So our first seating is at four o'clock but since that dish is the guests arrive, it's just So, you know, they're 700 plates tonight. In Japan, in the traditional kaiseki menu. There is a place in that that's called hassun, which which is really very, very sort of tell that, that story. And we just kind of like This is what's happening on our farm. It's a collection of what is actually, and it's And we begin to tell that Timing is super critical here by five minutes in one seating, and that will compound all night. Adrian's leading the station here. You doing anything in particular with tomato's what we brought in? - [Adrian] We can add it to the share. - Yeah. That's what's on the share. Yeah. Yeah, there we go. Sometimes decisions just made on the fly. He can see all the at what time and what all of So he's got all of his for all the dishes that he's making and all of the different substitutes. Basically, he's just set all the fish, all the shellfish all the vegetables, all the I, I don't know that there's that's doing that many putting it out, that Okay, you'll be fine. (Kyle laughs) The dish really starts with the floral like it's as much a visual dish as it is about the ingredients on there. So we're telling a visual story of what's happening out in nature. Also when guests are Michelin star restaurant that it might be like very So I wanted guests to walk of that and just dive This, the way that it's built is different for the dishes are different The floral is different. So every, every day, but So you kind of have to work We really like this idea within the place, because we We're very, very sort of in tune of exactly what's And so we want to express it's spring, but this And that dish allows us to really do that from the beginning. Yeah, I'm happy. I love it. I love doing this. We do it every day for every guest. So we just love to start out this way. One kinmedai on the board. Fire round two for two, two. So I just fired. What's gonna be the warm bites. So we call it round two. So this is part of the first dish. This is the warm components all the warm bites from the first dish. So 10 cold bites, three So these are eggs from on the bottom of sabayon This is the IU trout with rhubarb. - [Andrew] We call it the, - And then these are malted potatoes. And on the bottom's kind and a little bit of - After the ducks have been hung and they get all, they got all sweaty which kind of pre-renders the skin almost. We'll just clean 'em up, get, get 'em off the crown into breasts. One breast is about two portions and then we'll start cooking 'em once the service starts rolling out. My buddy, Mike, here - So these guys, Chef Mike duck racing. You know, we like to but also be productive and - We really want to just kind We roast some over the we're serving them with our very first potatoes some of the Japanese greens that we grow, and sort of something was actually serve them with strawberries. - It's 6:30 PM. All guests are in for the first turn. We're into dessert land now - Our final dish, we So it's rice koshihikari rice. It's cooked in the Kamado-san Donabe. It's a rice cooker clay pot. And then we are gonna pour into that a, a little bit of egg as well as some chive and almost kinda like You have to cook the egg but you have to stir very and make sure that you We have three chefs that all they do is cook out So it's like a really for them to come because you really have to to learn. Once it's hot, it retains its heat. It's not like a metal off the heat quickly and the It stores it. So you have to really like catch it on the the arc of the curve. And no, not when it's You kind of have to and then cook the porridge So this is why we're creamy risotto like texture. On the bottom grilled acidic sauce we make from wild noori that comes from the Sonoma coast, braised kombu, and yeah we use for making the dashi. These are little jellies that's made from a Japanese sweet potato This is a wild anago coming from Japan. Some of the radishes and So it's traditional to serve with broth and pickles. In our case, we have the pickled but this is the broth that we serve. Things are going well, We had about five more but yeah, everything's looking good. Finish a build on 36 please, You have 33 and 16. Something to be said about things being infinitely complex So the more simple and straightforward a process is the more you need to go sort of deep in defining We have something fun. We only have five inn rooms here. So we do an inn room menu. So we have a few different options. These guests have ordered a shabu-shabu, but our sort of unique take on that is is we use all different Chef Andrew starting to slice some really beautiful Wagyu beef. - [Andrew] It's fun because a five Wagyu but I feel are the vegetables from the farm. - The guests are gonna in this simmering water. Very, very simple Just adding a little bit of shero tamari, white tamari, as well as And then they have a They're gonna just simmer it up. I'm not trying to be the avant garde, you know, chef in the world. I'd rather be known for the through here and what they The cuisine for me is on the plate is not the It's the result of what we do. It's the results of bringing It's the results of our agriculture. It's the result of mentoring. It's like the result for the guests but it's not the end all and be all. We really want guests to And my hope is that people do leave and think a little bit more and things that they Well, it can mean just having more of appreciation for It can mean about shopping making that connection with the farmer. And even too, with our dishware we work with all these So even have an appreciation you know, someone's whose and just like supporting that artist. If we don't support artists and artisans and craftspeople and farmers, out and then they're not coming back.