Every winter, Jewish communities across the festival of Hanukkah. The image of the menorah and its iconic eight is one of the most visually recognizable aspects does this ancient holiday ritual stem? To answer we must go back 2,200 years to a Great ruled in the land of Judea, and tell to win liberty against the forces of the Hellenic Our sponsors allow us to release videos regularly 1914 for sponsoring this video! Supremacy 1914 is a Free Online PVP Strategy the Great War as their historical setting. In Supremacy 1914 you lead a real country players in real-time in games that can take You can and should choose your own strategy The best thing? The game is available in cross-platform and or PC without missing a beat. Supremacy 1914 is offering our viewers an link in the description to get 13 000 gold Offer only available for 30 days, don't We have also created a special Game was created will be shared at the end of the video! By the era of classical antiquity, the independent decline. As a result, the history of the Jewish people foreign Empires that took turns conquering, homeland. First came the Assyrians, then the Babylonians, with a reasonably fair and light hand. Finally, in 332BC, the Macedonian phalanxes Empire out of existence, establishing classical of the Near East. It is here that the Jewish people became subjects When Alexander died, his massive Macedonian ruled by his closest comrades, and later their These so-called Diadochi Kingdoms were constantly Judea, being situated in the borderland between became a battleground where the two Macedonian Despite this, life remained fairly peaceful The Hellenistic Kings generally used the same very little in the regions' culture, religion, The Jewish people were ruled semi-autonomously handled matters both religious and secular In 198BC, Antiochus III had finally expelled region firmly under the suzerainty of the He lowered the taxes and affirmed the Jewish and laws and for now, Judea was content. Throughout world history, we often see subject adopt the language and customs of said Empires' so many Jewish peoples began to practice the This phenomenon was known as hellenization, of Jewish society, namely the wealthy priests, The hellenization process was expedited in High Priest, Onias III, was deposed by his his greek name, Jason. Jason would go on to wield his power as High a classically Greek city by building a Gymnasium for Greek education and learning. He also sent Jewish athletes to compete in the King in Tyre. There he offered a sacrificial tribute to were dedicated. Perhaps his most radical policy was to allow Gods within the Holy Temple itself. The fact that the High Priest was openly tolerating, deeply disturbing to many Jews who clung to This sentiment was especially strong in the clung far closer to orthodox Judaism. A strained situation was made worse in 175BC, Seleucid basileus. Various ancient accounts describe him as a His sobriquet, Epiphanes, meant "manifested known by a variation of this title: "Epimanes", It was him who in the first year of his rule, hoping a pro-Greek High Priest would help However, only three years later, Antiochus fast enough, and so helped replace him with With that matter settled, Antiochus then marched the size of his Empire by seizing the Ptolemaic While the King was preoccupied, Jason seized initiating a counter-coup and expelling the However, Antiochus' campaign was cut short of the Ptolemies. Unable to match the strength of the legion, Already utterly humiliated by Rome, Antiochus' his subjects in Jerusalem had rebelled. He stormed Jerusalem with his army, slaying puppet Menelaus as High Priest. He then left Apollonios in charge of subduing the walls of Jerusalem and building a fort, so everyone could gaze upwards and see the Rather than leaving good enough alone, Antiochus the people of Judea from observing the Sabbath, rituals. He had the holy temple in Jerusalem converted spilled the blood of a pig, a deeply sacreligious The King declared that the Jewish people should Hellenized Jews accepted these changes, but fight. It is here that the Maccabees enter our story. Our story now shifts to the small Judean town and his five sons lived. They belonged to the relatively minor Hasmonean had remained true to every tenet of their increasingly assimilated into Greek culture. Some time in 167BC, a Seleucid official arrived a sacrifice to the Greek Gods. Mattathias refused to make this offering and Jew, stepped forth to do so in his place. Flying into a rage, Mattathias drew his knife perform the ritual. The Priest then cut down the Seleucid official good measure. Knowing they would be branded outlaws, Mattathias followed by many like-minded Orthodox Jews, From there, the fight had begun. While Mattathias died sometime in 166BC from third son Judah, a dynamic young commander, and bravery would become known as "Maccabeus", the hammer. At the early stages the rebellion was not civil conflict between pro and anti-hellenic The Maccabees began their movement with a upon predominantly Jewish towns. They killed many of their own countrymen who homes, and destroying the pagan altars where Most notably, they rounded up the sons of The message was simple, Greek culture was Before long, the Maccabees had earned the who resolved to crush the rebels before they In 167BC, after gathering a local army of south to the Gophna hills, where it was said Here, the Maccabees proved they were capable burning altars. Knowing they were outnumbered and out-equipped, into his native territory, where the hilly to form up into their Macedonian Phalanx. With only 600 men, the Maccabees surrounded the town of Wadi Haramia, routing them off Apollonios was killed in the fighting, and wielding it as a symbol that his rebellion The Maccabees followed up their victory with Seleucids led by Seron at the Beth-horon mountain These two victories would set the theme for armed contingents of Maccabean warriors would consistently outwit the well-armed Seleucid Later that year, Antiochus IV was forced to with a Parthian invasion, putting the local the growing Jewish revolt with limited resources. Despite this, Lysias managed to field a significantly soldiers. He put two experienced commanders, Gorgios it into Judea. The Hellenes set up an entrenched camp at by leading around 3,000 Jewish warriors to and prayed to God to deliver them victory In the days that followed, some of the local commanders where Judah had set up his base. Seizing the opportunity to catch his enemy and 1000 cavalry and marched for Mizpah. However, his heavily armoured Argyraspides was soon picked up on by Maccabean scouts. Rather than face Gorgios' force head on, his camp, taking advantage of his army's the expeditionary force, and strike instead at Emmaus. Taken completely by the surprise, the reserve routed, and their supplies looted or burned. After failing to find any rebels in Mizpah to his camp, only to find it aflame. Seeing this, the morale of his army was crushed, Reeling from yet another decisive defeat, the support of Lysias, attempted to bring offering to repeal some of the more egregious However, these negotiations failed, for the total eradication of Hellenization in Judea. By 164BC, Governor Lysias had taken it upon 20,000 men in Antioch, leading them south to a town called Beth Zur, where he encamped to strike at the Maccabee's southern flank. By this point, Judah Maccabeus had some 10,000 swelled as the reputation of his victories Nevertheless, he was still outnumbered and tried and true tested methods to best his Historical sources are vague on how the battle that the Maccabees spent the next few months tactics, striking at foraging parties, patrols, enough to be caught outside the town citadel. This was never enough to earn a decisive victory, consistently on the backfoot. The status quo changed in late autumn, when disease while campaigning against the Parthians, The Monarchs' death meant that his son, of the Seleucid Empire, and there would be the young boy for personal gain. Suddenly, Lysias' priorities had shifted, to secure control of the infant king in order court, which meant that the campaign in Judea Due to his persistence, cunning, and some once more. With his victory at Beth Zur, he was able Jerusalem, which ironically, he was able to Apollonios had destroyed its city walls a Following this, the Hellenized and other Seleucid Now firmly in control of the Holy City, the the altar to Zeus, and the idols that had Menelaus. His youngest brother, Jonathan Apphus, was Among the sacred objects to be restored was branches represented knowledge and creation. It was supposed to be kept burning every night, the persecutions. However, the temple had been so thoroughly keep the candles of the menorah burning for Despite this, once lit, the candles burned This supposed miracle of God is the cornerstone communities around the world light eight candles the light burned for Judah Maccabeus and his Jerusalem may have been taken, but the war Seeking to keep his momentum, Judah besieged He expected that Lysias, still locking horns not bother sending a force to relieve the He was wrong, and in a surprise to everyone, infantry, 500 cavalry, and at least 30 war Maccabeus had a respectable 20,000 warriors broke the siege of Akra, and marched southwards, town of Beth Zechariah. Confident in his numbers, and expecting the tactics by now, Judah opted to, for once, This was a dire mistake. The Jewish warriors were not a match for the on top of that, the war elephants were striking In an attempt to inspire bravery in his men, charged right into the Seleucid front lines, elephant and stabbing into its soft underbelly. The beast was slain, but its corps feel on in one of history's more spectacular deaths. Despite this brave sacrifice, the Maccabean field. Lysias was not able to savour this victory struck back, winning a minor victory over This was not a crushing blow to the Seleucids, to deal with his rivals. He was forced to compromise with the Maccabees, laws to placate his foe, before retreating Taking advantage of this reprieve, Judah sent As they had a vested interest in keeping their treaty of mutual defense with the Maccabees as a legitimate ruler of an independent Jewish Meanwhile over in Antioch, the situation was to power following a political coup that saw chief supporter Lysias. King Demetrius turned out to be more aggressive treaty, he dispatched one of his top generals, Judea. Bacchides managed to march right up to the Maccabeus completely by surprise. He only had 3,000 men with him, and to make upon seeing how direly outnumbered they were. Left with only a thousand or so men, the hammer charging out into the field outnumbered twenty Despite a valiant attempt Judah and his men Judah's brothers Simeon and Jonathan continued and retaking Jerusalem in the years that followed. The brothers and their successors would continue decades, before the declining Hellenistic and civil wars. In 141BC Judea came fully under the control of Judah Maccabeus and his brothers would a time. It is worth noting that even after this successful language and culture remained visible in Jewish were expelled from their homeland by the Romans into integrate as a diaspora community across The Maccabean revolt has a somewhat mixed Were Judah and his followers brave freedom culture and faith against an oppressive imperial Or were they religious zealots, whose desire all Jewish people taint what could have been Whatever the case, their impact on world history people light the eight candles that cut through of Judea is echoed once more. Once again, thanks to Supremacy 1914 for sponsoring This Free Online PVP Strategy Game is set country in the conquest of the world. What we love the most about Supremacy 1914 and with so many different units and strategies Supremacy 1914 has a Special Gift for our to get 13 000 gold and 1 month of Premium Offer only available for 30 days, don't We also set a game, so you can play with us. The game name is kingsandgenerals and the See you on the battlefield! We always have more stories to tell, so make bell button. Please, consider liking, commenting, and sharing Our videos would be impossible to make without whose ranks you can join via the links in early access to our videos, access our discord, This is the Kings and Generals channel, and