A while ago, ruled around this lake A mix of pickaxe blows Then, silence settled. A heavy silence for Lakva. It is synonymous with poverty. He and thousands of researchers had to drop their tools decided to close the mines. - Before, we lived in yurts, and thanks to jade and gold, people built wooden houses. At the time of the rush, all the unemployed in Mongolia. Lakva doesn't look like much, yet he is seated on a treasure. But fate plays a trick on him. - These are real jades. It must be in the range of 12 to 16,000 EUR. It got hard Customs controls are too strict. I hide the stones in the cellar. This is where we put the meat before. While waiting to have the right Lakva earns a living by renting Every year they make their big The journey is daring. His wife is worried. - I finish my bread and go. - No thanks. I go. You accompany me ? - You finished ? - Have you forgotten anything? - I'm taking my flashlight. - Goodbye my darling. Have a good trip - Don't worry. In order to save fuel, Lakva cuts by the lake. But this year the thaw has come five days ago, only two people This premature thaw has started the thick She can give in at any time. - If we pass, so much the better, Lakva is determined to force fate. Genghis Khan's children, have kept their superb. Their courage and flawlessness. In Mongolia, All live in lands At the end of winter, families bring 4 days of travel In these icy mountains, the thermometer The blizzard and the frozen rivers Some nomads try to escape A word, a dream shines Gold. - We're going to find a big nugget. Gold is not the only wealth to have - Cashmere heaps here, But often the dreams of new in the lowlands of the capital. To the extent that Lakva has a bad feeling. - What a road! The old Mongolian does not like sign that it is waterlogged. The van sinks. If the ice comes to Lakva will no longer be able to open them. And his old 4x4 will be swallowed up little by little, thus transforming He absolutely needs to get out of there. It is difficult because in places, there are currents that form holes. I'm going to go test the thickness of the ice. I feel like we can't pass These fears are confirmed Lakva returns to the bank. After a long detour, he arrives at night at the camp The Darkhad, in Mongolian. - Good morning. Ho are you doing ? - Yes, it was. Are you ready for transhumance? I brought you gasoline. Departure is scheduled for the next day. The ritual is always the same. Before each transhumance, everyone meets There are always told the same stories, warnings for young people. Minch Bayard, 60 years old, is one of the memories of the group. - My father was a breeder. At the time, he brought I followed him as soon as I was Sometimes up to 1400 animals We had bad weather... We happened to lose our cattle. They were dying of cold nature is awesome and cattle can die in places where there are And that really happens. In the early morning, a funny sound A slow heralding litany - That's it! - It's very dangerous. people who ignore it When the lake emits a particular sound, this announces the appearance of the fault. Here it is a bit difficult. Before the big departure, at their own risk, this woman and her husband come to relieve - So that's it ? - We can start - He is stuck. They'll have to spend more time - I'm dragging it. Go ahead, shoot! The peach is lean Even at the end of the world, the guards - Are you shooting the net? We are in a nature reserve. If you get caught catching fish It's the law. We caught these two little ones But that will barely be enough for dinner. The encampment of the Darkhad tribe, is at hours The fish in the lake are much more - This fish is really delicious. When we cut it here, We eat it to cure illnesses It really is a valuable fish. Far from any pollution, the region of Lake Khovsgol - The water is very pure. We transport to drink it. Placed on his firmament, the sun gives the signal for departure. - The transhumance will last 4 to 5 days. It will be long. But we can't stay here. This year there was no snow. I think it's related There will be less water and therefore after And after the drought, And as the animals feed on it, The Darkhads will convoy sheep, goats, yaks. All their fortune is there. Apart from the yurt, Their lives fit in two chests. - Money ! - In this trunk we store Our fragile objects that serve us - There are our papers and we put This chest keeps everything Time has no hold Everyone goes at their own pace. Once the vans are loaded, In the distance, their herd of yaks - Half the yaks are gone. Their landline doesn't answer, This satellite phone is the only - Hello ? You have not seen This phone is expensive. We spent $120 to get it, We seek the herd by phoning But their neighbors have already taken the road. The yaks do quickly Better to find them quickly. Especially when the fog lifts. - I have already lost myself, so much so that time I had no more gas In such a fog, we no longer have any landmarks. It's good to drink water from the lake and when you lick it, - We found the Yaks near the lake. The transhumance can finally begin. Vans lead the way. at the head of the herd, They are closely followed by The gun is used to guard the camp. To protect us from wolves. If we're not careful, they can attack the herd. Four days of riding are necessary Haza, 20, brings up the rear. As soon as fatigue sets in, the young woman knows where to find Pine resin. - It chews like that! It's good ! Natural chewing gum! Lakva's Russian Van he wouldn't trade it for anything in the world. - Driving is dangerous The track is frozen I do not release the brake! If we slip, the lake will swallow us up. A few kilometers back Minch Bayard is smiling. The phone brought him - It seems that the weather is fine, and the pastures are good. The path narrows. The beasts panic. The long climb to the pass, at 2000 m altitude, promises to be epic. The vans drive below. They take an icy road. - Here there is a river, Check before crossing It's dangerous because we slip, even when activating We can crash into the trees I had to stop because my wheels Lakva! The wheels spin. - How are we going to do this ? - Back up a bit, get on it - You have to turn slightly. - I should have followed this less icy track. - Attention ! - The car slipped - Yes, it slips. - I'm going to step back a bit - Again, otherwise you'll run out of momentum. - What is happening ? The van by oil. We must add more. The breakdown is good The leak is coming from the gearbox. He will be able to leave. But the troubles are just beginning. The animals end - With the sun, the earth we For the moment, it has not melted yet. The animals will be able to pass, but for that it is absolutely necessary to sand I trace the road, If an animal breaks a leg, Men will then be - We make the sheep cross but they don't want What a pain ! - It's hard for the little ones, I carry them, Crossing frozen rivers is and beasts. - This lamb has become detached from the herd. Because the sheep have put He is panicked because he A day of chasing after the herd. The grandfathers are exhausted. - I have a little back pain. But it does not matter. I'm not in pain, I'll be fine! And it is better, because his back will be put to the test. A stroke of madness seized the yaks The beasts got out of control. - That's it, I got it. - If they rise too much, They go fast! - Finally ! We got there. The mad dash has exhausted this yak. He collapsed under the weight His head is stuck under his body. He is in danger of choking. The beast is knocked out, but she is fine. Like a curse. Now that's a horse There are too many bad energies. Minch Bayard stops the convoy. - We're going to set up the yurt here. The wind begins to blow, That's why we install - It's not going to snow now, there will be snow. Men have no right to rest. Oil leak needs to be repaired Otherwise, it might break down - I'm removing the bolts. As there is an oil leak, We do not have a choice ! The engine is leaking oil because With just a few tools, the two men demonstrate the box - We're going to put some glue Assemble these two pieces. They don't have spare seals, but they just got Replace it with burlap. - I mustn't let her go! - Be careful, The gearbox, is put back in place by force of arms. - We're going to put him on his stomach. Are you able to slip? Me, with this on my stomach, - I'll slip under. I'm going to put myself the other way. - You'll wear yourself out. - I've already messed up twice - Yes, that often happens. - Isn't the engine going to fall? - That's it, it's good! Haza prepares the meal for the whole family. From time to time, she takes herself of a world she does not know. The city. - I have never been to Ulaanbaatar, but I would like. To see how a city is made. I would surely send my child I don't want him to be a breeder. 1000 kilometers away stands Ulaanbaatar, the capital. A third of the Mongolian population lives here, In a few years, the old town thanks to the discovery of huge deposits Here, the clothes and the leather boots, gave way to a style From a decade, Bartassar is one of the men His fortune is close He owes it to precious wool. - Our factory receives cashmere There, it's cashmere that comes wool is purchased EUR5 per kilo, but they pay off big. - Cashmere heaps here, Every year, that come from 22 million goats. Touch me that! If you have children, you will see that it is Lots of workers They earn in a month what they - How much is a worker paid? - About EUR300 per month. Some sweaters are still - The cost of crafting a sweater On average, Bartassar resells its sweaters for export The man does not intend to stop there. He plans to double his production to 40 million goats. It will take him some time. Five years ago, the great cold The consequences were dramatic Ruined, they failed in this corner 350,000 herders survive here, Shin Cargal lives in a yurt Abandoned by her father, the little girl lives here and his many brothers and sisters. - We have a lot Living in the countryside or in the city, I would be happy if my 6 children It's the only thing An unattainable dream. But the little girl is resourceful. In his neighborhood, so she improvised she delivers her cans every morning. A course of several kilometers, - How much do you earn per race? - EUR0.20 euro. - And how many times do you do it? - Twice. Sometimes three. Like Shin Cargal, in Mongolia, 100,000 children are coerced The most disadvantaged fail in one It sorts waste such as plastic, cans, scrap and then resell them - You're not tired ? - I work everyday. - No, it's fine. It's not very cold. I put the bottles a kilo of plastic The bottles, they, 0.12 EUR per kilo. At the end of the day, By abandoning their nomadic existence, all these families dreamed Admittedly, life is tough in But Minch Bayard and his family In communion with nature. Peaceful. Or almost. On the fourth day of transhumance, The temperature goes from The blizzard surprises everyone. The men hurry the beasts in order to shelter them This time the shepherds did not have The strip of land is thin. Some animals hurt themselves. - This yak broke its horn. You have to give it back to him. - It's because of the jostling. - You have to put it on again. - He's not bleeding much. The break Fortunately, it could have killed him otherwise. We'll cauterize and bandage him. We'll give him some medicine We'll do that after we set up camp. On the other side, Haza is in trouble. She can no longer do The men come to her rescue. - The sheep don't want to cross. That's why I drag a goat, for them to follow her. Otherwise, they are afraid. The wind increases in intensity. - We have to hurry, otherwise we won't make it. - For God Sake ! She slips. A few hours later, This greasy yellow grass, signs the end of the journey, The Darkhad Tribe The beasts will be able - We'll unload and set up the yurt here. Just arrived, these two - We're going to look for gold - Bye ! - Be well! The adventure is total. It's the first time they go They don't know how to go about it, but they want to try their luck. - Today we are going to do We're going to spend a night out. - I hope we don't have Former miners showed them the way. The mines are found at the end of a long blue ribbon. But Mother Nature During the winter, the landscape changed. - I took the wrong path. The two men are lost in the taiga. - We took a wrong turn. So we're going to try there. I never went looking for gold, It's a yellow thing. It seems that there are already people there. - I hope they are not On the second day, the mines However, they found At the end of the day, - There are people there. - We'll try that way. At the edge of the dry river, not men, They are three, alone. Away from the world for months. Their husbands stayed - We brought you a bottle for The first drink is reserved - That Mother Nature gives us - That you find a lot of gold! May your wallets be thick! - I absolutely want to find gold! The gold must be in there! But we don't see it yet. We'll see it when we wash the earth. - It is better to take the brown stones. They give more gold than the yolks. In the yellows, there is no - I was told that you find - So, you find gold? Take us out for a bit! - You still have to find - I hope so ! - We're going to find a big nugget, - I've been coming here for ten years, People out of work like us, - Yes, young people don't have jobs. - We are the abandoned generation We don't touch anything to live, you have to earn money. Look for gold in this country is a titanic, exhausting job. The frost makes the earth But women have a technique. - We set fire to the earth Let it burn all night. And tomorrow, we collect the thawed part. At the nomad camp, Lakva restores the sheepfold whose - Tonight, the sheep will be able to otherwise they will be cold and the little ones can After the rest of the beasts, Tomorrow, Lakva goes home. This is his last meal with the nomads. To celebrate the end of transhumance, they have planned a dish they love. The sheep's head. With the nomads, Lakva only won On leaving, a dream flashes before his eyes. That of finally having the right and get rich. The fire burned all night Warmed up, the earth - Even if we are tired, That's life. Now we have to dissolve Bayard Kum Niamka did not expect - We'll see what's there. Even if there was a small speck, There is nothing in there. Look, there is gold! It shines ! - Yes, there are five small grains of gold. No, six! In other words, almost nothing. - Today, we found 0.3 g of gold. Usually, we find 0.8 or 0.9 g. At the end of the day, the women - I have about a gram. It took me between 4 and 5 days We share the money because One gram of gold in four days, it's barely a few euros for each. The fortune dreams of Bayard Kum Niamka Their career as a gold digger