This video was made using insights video to find out how we used vidIQ as You have been recruited for one of the most you fly your first mission in a B-2 Stealth this moment. It will culminate with you handed drugs to keep you awake, and a flight you strap yourself in, you wonder if this 2 of the most powerful weapons ever conceived cramped cockpit you will spend the next full day Thinking back to your time in flight school, beautiful beast. Originally designed during the the B-2 was the United States Air a wingspan of 172 feet, a cursing speed of 7,000 miles. Not to mention it can be equipped precise target to nuclear bombs that can The B-2 never got to show off its capabilities first aircraft rolled off the assembly line, the falling apart. However, this magnificent Whenever you stand on the tarmac of Whiteman other planes in the hangar. There are 20 B-2 flying wing shape and is painted black. The B-2s chuckle at how much cheddar was spent on these of dollars to construct, but they also need to be the B-2s are worth much more than their But considering what they can do, these planes are because of your good looks; you worked hard where you are today. You were recruited from the honest with yourself, you always wanted to be of the Air Force, you thought you'd find NASA But the U.S. military had different plans in from Air Force Global Strike Command tracked simulation and were going to pass with flying You sat in the dark chamber, waiting for orders and a ray of light shone in. "Step out of the You unstrapped your safety belt. There was no some big news, you thought to yourself. Perhaps the astronaut training program. But when you director who was standing in front of you, but a of honor. He looked at you with penetrating which you later found out was literally you need to be 5 foot 8 or under; The general handed you transfer where your skills would be put to the ultimate to read about the B-2 aircraft. You passed exam switch within the B-2s cockpit. You were put into drilled by your training officer on scenarios hours in the simulator just like you would spend After you passed all of the tests you finally got behind the actual flight stick. simulations. However, when you engaged the as the B-2 accelerated to hundreds of miles of taking off for the first time. It was like When you landed after your first flight, you felt followed your every move as if it could predict aircraft into the hanger, you couldn't wait to you were constantly ready for unannounced make sure that the B-2 stealth bomber teams and You and your crewmate conducted long-distance took you across the globe, where you so that everything went smoothly when you When you were first recruited, the things have changed. A power-hungry dictator to invade a nearby country. His ruthless civilians have forced the U.S. government this morning. Your orders were to report to You grab your emergency mission pack and approaching and wave you through. There is no and you need to get your 2 billion dollar stealth You park your car and leap out. you are met by a high-ranking official. You your flight orders from his outstretched hand. read the report. There are a series of missiles being deployed to the front lines of the undetected to the launch sites and destroying Since the United States technically isn't at enemy never detects your aircraft. The smart while simultaneously making sure no evidence the folder and hand it back to the general. "I mission is off the books. You head through B-2 stealth bomber waits. Already standing next to You shake your co-pilot's hand and give the pills. "To help with the long flight," she to stay alert during crucial parts of the B-2 pilot, you have modified your eating and intake throughout the day instead of having three that allows you to maintain appropriate sugar flying for long periods of time. Your modified only a few hours of rest each night and power altered your circadian rhythm allowing you to You hand the empty cup back to the doctor and You reach the top, look inside, and slide into side, and you begin your preflight check. your aircraft is equipped with will allow for precision targeting. Everything The engineers helping you prep the B-2 for away from the plane. There is a hiss as the in the stealth bomber. You listen to the final display appears on the screen directly in but they are overlaid with screens sophisticated camera system set up around the and generates three-dimensional images co-pilot does a final readout and confirms You begin pulling the B-2 out of the hanger being As you taxi to the runway, a commander comes plan one more time. The trip will take around before you reach enemy airspace. You confirm the It is silent in the cockpit. The glow from the your co-pilot's face. He looks over at you extends his hand across the center console. and push the thruster control forward. The jet quickly. You are forced back into your seat, is powerful but smooth. The B-2 lifts into 50,000 feet. You ease back on the You and your co-pilot begin prepping the that the flight path is laid in correctly, a series of checklists and the plethora such as weather conditions and the latest 15 hours ahead of you before you drop your bombs, to constantly stay up to date on atmospheric After hours of prepping, it is and your co-pilot takes the first flight into the compartment right behind your seat. is situated. It is not your first choice 50,000 feet above the ground in a 2 billion get. After relieving yourself, you move to seats. It is just long enough for you to lie a bottle of water to make sure you stay hydrated makes it easier to get up than a full bladder. Three hours later, your alarm goes off. You are You get updates from your co-pilot. New weather You update the onboard computer with this data, doing a quick rundown with your co-pilot, nap. The flight continues to go smoothly as When your co-pilot awakes, it is time for one B-2 needs to refuel, but there is no time to The image on your heads-up display changes. The refueling plane. You grab the flight stick up with the refueling pipe. The cameras and refueling aircraft at just the right angle while gently ease the B-2 forward and connect to and the tanks of the B-2 are replenished. The entire time you are in communication with in with you one last time before you push the You gently lower the B-2 away from the refueling to reach your target and return home. you thank the pilots aboard the refueling with anyone until your mission is complete. In your B-2 must go dark. The design of the up by radar as the shape and angle of the the B-2 without being reflected back ensures that the B-2 won't be seen by any However, if you were to break radio silence, This is why it is vital to remain in a your missions and leave hostile territory. you each drink Gatorade, eat a protein bar, and take another pill prescribed by the doctor The latest data is instantaneously sent to uplink. Apparently, U.S. intelligence received on the move but were set up for deployment. as quickly as possible. You push the engines a how much fuel you can burn while still having New readings for airspeed, temperature, and All of these factors will affect the timing and You push a series of buttons and flick a switch. then change to show a live image of the ground a picture of the ground thousands of feet below your targets. Your co-pilot spots the first set and you begin searching for the other locations. to the intel you received earlier, you seem to But something's not right. You and your co-pilot better look at what is happening on the ground. the nukes; they are preparing to fire them. If World War III and the destruction of the planet. thruster forward; the engines are pushed to the and the GPS being sent via satellite. Your the target. Every bit of data is checked one last The doors beneath the B-2 bomber open. The speed a rapid change in pressure. The aircraft shakes their targets. You close the bomb bay doors and you get confirmation that the targets have been the heads-up display. You check your sensors for Time seems to slow. All you can do is You have been in the B-2 for almost 20 hours, and received your orders. You know that best at what it does. The bombs are state of the enemy weapons should be destroyed in a matter for happens. Data begins coming in that the bombs Synthetic Aperture Radar and satellite imagery You are relieved to find that the mission was been obliterated by the bombs you dropped now, there are just smoldering holes and mangled gives you a nod of approval. You pull the flight home. You have enough fuel to make it back across As the hours tick by, you eventually reach mission was a success as they received intel from confirmation that all nukes were destroyed. you inform them that all sensors aboard the Command acknowledges your report and gives You and your co-pilot take turns flying and into the middle of the country. When you some well-deserved rest. As you approach the tower for landing. Your heads-up display shows the reduce the thrust, and slowly drop the plane All in all, you have been in the B-2 for longer flew across an ocean, and carried out your receive new orders, but right now, you and your on the ground. Then again, this was just another Ever wondered how we decide what to make videos secret. It's vidIQ. It lets us see exactly how More searches, means more potential viewers, But shows you the competition for that keyword. likely it is that your video will stand out. it sounds too easy, but it really is! You don't vidIQ! But try it for yourself! Get a 30 day trial Now watch "How US Military Spy Plane Drove the USSR Crazy." Or check out "Why The