- [Jared] This toy is It features five doors on top with a unique way to open each one. In this video, we'll use 3D animation to take it apart and see (upbeat music) (upbeat music) Over the years, there's been of the Poppin' Pals Toy. The one I'm gonna be showing in this video is from a brand called Playskool. I'll put a link to the toy in Here's a quick rundown of how the toy works just Five different mechanisms a slider, a switch, button, And of course a sweet little each time the door opens. Push the doors down to close Simple toy, but yet how Let's take it apart and find out. On the bottom are several screws, quite a few of them actually. Once you take them out the Let's take a look at the doors first. Each of the five doors with a pivot point coming out The top half of the toy case These doors are tricky to The doors are held in place by small plastic pieces that These would fall out quite easily but when you put it all together the four pieces are held up by The toy case allows for just enough space for the door to rotate, open and closed. When the door closes, it is And when it opens again, the This is why the door is limited On the bottom of each that causes it to rotate Now in this video, you'll a compression spring, You're probably used to The more you press down, in the other direction. The torsion spring works It works by twisting, the the more it wants to A great example of a torsion Pinch the very ends and the You can feel the force that So back to the Poppin' Pals Toy, each door has a torsion spring behind a small plastic covering. The end of each spring comes down and attaches to another wire that's strung out along the side. This long wire serves as an When the door is pushed closed the torsion spring is twisted that wants to push the door back open. This means that if you let it go, the door will quickly So when the doors are closed the springs are trying to open it again. So what keeps them from opening? That's the job of the Each of the levers has a You can see what happens the lever is pushed down Then a compression spring and the door is locked into place, now the door can't open. But if the lever is pushed down again, the torsion spring and the to the open position. All of the levers are they hold the door closed in the same way. But the other end of the they are made in such a way can be used to push down the levers. So the doors up here are I'll do the same thing down here. We're gonna call this four, and five. We're gonna go through starting with mechanism number one. This is an orange slider Each time it goes past the Let's see what this looks like underneath. We can see these triangles sticking off the side of the slider. On the lever, it's got a little plastic From this angle It all The orange slider moves across When the lever goes down, I think it's neat how a side into an up and down motion. We'll see this in some of Okay, mechanism number two. This one works just like a light switch. Anytime the switch goes past Underneath you can see the pivot points sticking out on the side and a large plastic edge The lever has kind of with a plastic bump in the middle. Now let's watch from the side and see what happens when move the switch. The bump on the lever Let's watch that again. The lever goes down, This works either way Mechanism number three. This one is the big purple button. Not only does it open a door, it also makes that when you press it down. Underneath, you can see that the squeaker is right inside of the button. And just in case you were wondering, the toy will still work just fine if you take out the squeaker. The lever has three notches the Nothing special here, just press down the button and and the door opens Mechanism number four. This one is the turnkey when you turn it. Now all of these other buttons come out when you take the toy apart. This pinky does not come out. It's stuck in the plastic, Here's what it looks like underneath. On the edge it has jagged Then we have a tiny plastic When it turns this plastic piece clicks across each jagged edge. If you really get tired of and the mechanism will What makes the door open at three spots. You can see it better On the lever it's got a plastic When the key Is turned, the lever is forced down, Let's see what this looks Now, if you turn the key and leave it there, the door can't close. It'll just spring back open. That's because the lever is Now rotate the key just the door will close once again. Last but not least, mechanism number five. Very similar to what we've already seen. The switch goes back and forth The switch has a plastic and the lever has a long When you flip the switch the lever is forced into Let's see what this looks like altogether. Putting the Poppin' Pals if you put it together upside down so that all of the pieces stay in. And luckily the Poppin' Pals Toy that I used for this video I hope you enjoyed it and (upbeat music)