These young South Koreans are on a mass blind date. 100 men and women are here hoping to find love. With the help of the government. People today are feeling emotionally overwhelmed. For the next five hours, they'll play Until they find the one. But it's not all fun and games. South Korea is facing a demographic time with the world's lowest fertility rate And the government is scrambling to unconventional initiatives The country over the plunging birthrate. In countries younger people don't find it There's a lot of negativity Experts warn of a demographic trap By 2044, South Korea's workforce It's not about whether to have children or not. It's a matter of how our society can But for many young South Koreans, Usually, we think that getting married means sacrificing myself. I think the number one reason is that the quality of life of young people What's unfolding here trend So what can the world learn from South and what does it mean for their future? This matchmaking event has been running since 2023, and 28 year old Eun hye bae hopes to find her future husband here. I came out to look for someone The first hurdle in overcoming the low birth rate issue is getting married. We have created an opportunity for young people who are busy with their jobs to meet and connect. South Korean women are now having fewer child per woman, far below the 2.1 rate For such numbers to emerge in Korea, is unprecedented worldwide. For this 26 year old aspiring actress, individuality and career ambitions I believe that marriage and childbirth are not essential elements in life. Including my acting career, I have many things I want to pursue and a clear direction moving forward. She believes her generation is dealing happiness through traditional family I think that a certain level of financial stability, time, mental state, and physical strength are all aspects of having a sense of security. The latest government report such as work life and job opportunities are key to marriage At the beginning of each month, I wonder, "How am I going to pay We don't think, "In this era of low birth rates, to be part of the solution." It's difficult enough to make ends meet right now. Now we have these but there's so many financial on housing and all of those things be able to hit those markers of adulthood South Korea's birthrate decline has been unfolding for decades In 1971, there were 1 million births last year, after over 50 years, there were only 230,000 births and the year before that, there were 250,000. There were two significant moments when the number of newborns fell: the 1997 IMF financial crisis, They made economic leading many citizens to choose not to have children. It is expected that half will disappear in just 50 years. Since the early 2000, a bunch of initiatives Pouring in more than $280 billion so far. And yet they have fallen far short, 90% of respondents Very hasty policies are being implemented, policies that fail to understand the youth. Some initiatives border on the absurd, like this or this one a year earlier than boys And let's face We're not just talking about A recent study revealed that South Korea to raise a kid, at 7.79 times the GDP per capita and its education expenses, or private tutoring that The low birth rate policies focused solely on pregnancy, However, we need to consider low birth rate transforming society into one that is That's certainly the case for Jihye Myeong, who leads a busy life Despite getting married five years ago, old remains deeply skeptical My mom always said, That generation of women, their life is not that happy because, in our society, there is a really strong Confucianism especially husband and wife. many company they still think Many companies, they still think that taking care of a not man. why we should choose family or my career, Why we should choose family or my career, I think it's really unfair. some. Get him going to get cut. South Korea has one of the highest In fact, many women are compelled to instead of having children because when they return to work after childbirth. The fear of career setbacks the falling fertility rate in South Korea, We see that between caring and then also being asked to work There are many women around me or are thinking about having kids. They're worried about getting back to work after having a baby, I think to have a baby is really but if I'm not ready, it could be disaster. Their stories reflect what's happening across the region The number of women in their prime is projected to fall below 100 million I believe this issue isn't just limited to but is related to diplomatic, security, and economic and should be interpreted as a The environment will become increasingly unfavorable for low-income classes, rural areas, The same goes for Western societies. We need to pay attention to what and how they are progressing, We also need to look at how Experts say decline won't be reversed, So the question remains what can be done? For some, it's helping women balance work and family For example, we could for companies and couples when have parental leave or take turns. We should look at the various methods and benchmark against these examples more. And for the youth, it's creating a sense of stability toenails and they car up tours in China. I believe that the younger generation stability and quality of life to seriously and there should be clear policies that can support that. It's only when I feel this sense of security then I will start to contemplate childbirth. I will start to contemplate childbirth. I believe that housing costs need to be And the unnecessary private education system, which reinforces academic credentials, I think our society should Other efforts as Korea's work life balance ranks just one time I funny It should be a society where with their beloved families and children after work, sharing stories about what they did that day. This, I think, is essential for Experts say South Korea is in need of a bold vision. I think one of the most important things is just accept that fertility rates There's so much noise around low fertility preventing us from putting in place where we could be resilient We have to take some time This journey towards a resilient future Instead of just telling young people how to live, I believe the older generation should or share with the younger generation. I want to live happily. Talking to them all cannot talk. If we truly want to solve the low birth rate problem, I believe it is essential to walk in