A Man Drank 12 Energy Drinks In 10 Minutes. JS is a 36 year old man, presenting to the pain. He tries to tell the admitting nurse what of his chair to stop himself from emptying You see, JS was a man living the dream. When around video games. His parents liked playing video games, because he really didnt have When he was 14 in 1998, Pokemon had just come only be had if players traded with each other have any friends, he could never make the As the years passed, what JS didn't have have as an adult. If he couldn't have Gengar required a trade to get, then JS had a lot and movies he didnt have as a kid, he had things. If he didnt have friends and recognition to get them as an adult. One day, at his workplace, JS thought it would loved to stock them in the fridge, and the benefit for a great place to work. At the table now, JS wanted to put on a show. minutes, and it was going to be legendary. At first it felt cold on the way down. He But as the cans continued, the burn started were growing and tearing up his mouth. Immediately after chugging all 12 energy drinks, was burning. He wasn't sure if it was his of breath and to take his mind off of everything, As the hours passed, JS could feel his heart he thought. For him, caffeine really never recommendation is 400 milligrams a day, JS during LAN parties and weekend gaming marathons. caffeine quickly, he thought. What started as a discomfort at the bottom back, in-between his shoulder blades. JS knew the night while he was playing games and watching shot of some other drink could help relieve But problems started happening when JS emptied been feeling nauseous for several hours. After feeling even worse. He could feel his heart just under his neck, and the pain in his stomach than the last. Any time he tried drinking some water, that out for a few days, because he believed that Those should have already passed through his finally, JS couldn't eat anymore. He couldn't sharp and burning as he calls for 911, and we are now. Doctors noticed that JS was nauseous. He had His breathing was stressed and he said that like someone had taken a crowbar and started A blood test finds that JS has hyperglycemia. another name for sugar. And -emia meaning blood. Each can that JS drank had more than over 1 pound of sugar in 10 minutes, so hyperglycemia he chugged those energy drinks more than a because his abdomen just hurt so much. And blood sugar as quickly as possible, so sugar The pancreas releases insulin to help lower pancreas is in the abdomen. There could be not releasing insulin. Maybe something is it is releasing it, and his body isn't responding diabetes. But that isn't in his medical blood sugar levels suggest he had prediabetes. have a different idea of what could be happening. In the emergency room, doctors use an ultrasound to JS's pancreas. Maybe a gall stone is problems. But they didn't see anything there. As they sent him in for a higher resolution JS has hyperlipasemia. High Lipase Presence lipids, or fats, and -ase referring to enzyme. Lipase comes from the pancreas. It helps us levels are high in the blood, then it means digests fat, and the pancreas is partially is starting to digest itself. The abdominal pain radiating to his back. to keep anything down and the hyperlipasemia. pancreatitis. -ITIS meaning an inflammation to it, enzymes started leaking out of it, Acute meaning this is all happening suddenly, In the emergency room, doctors don't know He didn't tell them that. What doctors do Because he's young, excess alcohol may not that takes some time, but it can hurt the common reason for pancreatitis, after gallstones, JS did say he did have one shot of liquor for it. But they were suspicious thinking but the reality was he took the shot several and doctors just had no idea about the 12 JS was started on IV fluids. He was dehydrated They give him medicines for the pain because to be going OK. But only for a short time. When body parts appear to be damaged, the The problem is, sometimes the immune system when it shouldn't be reacting in the first body part damage, so the immune system is But when inflammation, pancreat-ITIS, happens, in JS, where his pancreas was supposed to Typically in a 36 year old man with no diagnosed resolves itself. The medical team elects to is swelling with fluid, doing surgery and than good. Even if the image looks scary, as a few days pass, things seemed to be holding surgery, and he's probably ready to go home, As the medical team gets ready to discharge be going smoothly. But as the hours pass, a fever, as his blood pressure starts to drop. harder and faster, but it's not enough. Another CT scan finds that gas is now in the and the intestines have some air in them, contents don't leak in to the abdomen, so where could this gas be coming from? A blood test finds that not only are JS's but that he now has an infection. If bacteria outside of the stomach, can produce gas, then pancreas, is now infected. But it doesnt just now spilled in to his bloodstream. The immune by dilating the body's blood vessels. But can't get to organs like the liver and the in and out of conscious as limited oxygen pancreatitis in JS, that came from chugging to the medical team what happened. But why did this happen? Good question. Generally, dangerous when consumed in huge excess. If young and healthy, it's probably not a big back to back, then bad things are probably Most people immediately think of the caffeine of caffeine, so 2 cans get you very close can make you wired, make your heart race, you shaky and jumpy, and in some people, lots This energy drink cardiotoxicity, has been my cardiologist friend MedLifeCrisis, link Energy drinks are more than just caffeine. of these ingredients are in a single can. a half liters of anything in 10 minutes. What with excess energy drink consumption, and and stimulants in there that'll get you in 10 minutes, or drinking three, four, five, get injured. We can't experiment on people everyone huge amounts of energy drink until of the people who do drink 6 cans a day, we at any given time, because it's buried so For JS, this became a wake up call to him but the blood test said pre-diabetes. He didn't from diabetes and cause pancreatitis. But of control very quickly, even when the patient JS. He was holding steady, until his organs got infected, and spilled in to his blood. With supportive care, and antibiotics. A diligent realizing he had everything he could ever If you're interested in the Presenting merch, link to my store is in the description Thanks so much for watching. Take care of