- I was in a little bit of I just wasn't sure what to do, so I called a friend to (cell phone ringing) - Hey, Heini, how's it going? - Things are good, things are good. I have have a little bit You know, I do the videos on YouTube, and I sort of ran out of ideas and I have like a deadline And so the idea I got, which is gonna give you was that, you know, I do a lot of videos about building apps and so on, but I've never had a video Today we're gonna build an and with no code. This is &quot;Raw Startup.&quot; I'm the founder of Vivino, the world's largest wine with over 60 million It took us years to build a great app, but it's incredible what you can build now in just hours with no-code. This should be a lot of fun. Finally, in this video, we'll look at what we learned What could we build in, like, 24 hours? Could we build something funny in 24 hours and then make a video about it? What do you think? So we start with brainstorming. - Hmm, we need to brainstorm here. We definitely should do something with AI. AI these days is just and in just five years I And at the same time we so that other people could repeat it. Something interesting, something engaging, something that ideally Maybe, like pictures generating something. What do you think? - Yeah, for sure, because it's It's an app, it'd be fun if Hmm, this is getting interesting. Actually, a friend came to me and he said he's playing around with ChatGPT and he had it generating It sort of worked somewhat, but what if you had an Would that be fun? - Yeah, I definitely let's say, a text for We also even can generate pictures. For example, I think we can Midjourney is just, do It's an amazing app. - [Heini] I've seen these pictures. It looks wild, right? - Yeah, Jesus, I don't That's crazy. We can use Midjourney we probably can use FlutterFlow. It's an app based on Flutter, but it's just a little bit more easy and generates, like, you know, all these blocks like Lego And we can do it, like, pretty easily. Maybe, like, within just one - Okay, I mean, that's Otherwise I don't have the So how much input would we put in? Like, how much data would - I believe not more than just - Really? you can generate like a huge So we can just ask the person to provide the prompt, like, what is the story about, and we just generate a huge piece of text plus some pictures, you know, to kind of like give it - I mean, that is pretty cool. 24 hours, really? - Yeah, yeah, maybe even 20. I'm 100% sure we can get this done. - Fantastic. - Let's do it. - Let's do it. - Okay, Nik is ambitious, I like it. Let's go build something. - The plan is the following. Firstly, I need to then build, then test, All right, let's start with Heini ask me that, as a user, I want to be able to so that I would be able that contains pictures and text. This is overall goal of this app. The functionality that is the mobile app, which in a tool called FlutterFlow. The text generation, which We need to generate pictures and for that I think we'll use Midjourney. And we need to connect all of that, and I think for that we'll use Zapier. Important to know that everything we need to build without only using no-code tools. Only with that way we'll be able to build it, like, really, really fast. So that's why I think Zapier, ChatGPT and Midjourney Okay, let's go. Okay, so this is a very simple, but at the same time We'll build the app itself first, then we need to use Zapier Integration, which will be connected to and to Midjourney to and let's try this out. (fast forward effect) Okay, so I have pretty bad news. It'll be very hard to build this kind of FlutterFlow is just too complex to build apps within 24 hours. It's pretty easy to do but definitely not in 24. Okay, everything becomes I signed up with Midjourney, and it seems Midjourney but, unfortunately according to their API they do not allow to Midjourney doesn't provide any API access to the bot through third This is very sad. So, I'm going to talk to Heini, and try to convince him 'Cause unfortunately neither FlutterFlow nor Midjourney does work in this case. I think that we'll and some other tool. (cell phone ringing) Hey, Heini, how's it going? - Things are good. I'm excited about this project, man. I wanna see the storytelling app. - I'm honestly not that excited. I tried and I spent maybe at and I realized that, probably will not work as And this is very sad. - Okay, but FlutterFlow, there's a lot of different ones, right? You can just use something else, right? - Yeah, so I tried FlutterFlow. It is very great and we can but definitely not in 24 hours. It's just much more complex- - Its just slower or- And even if we show it to someone, people will not be able to - So FlutterFlow is not gonna work. What about alternatives? What have we got? - There are multiple, there are Builder, there's Adalo, and we But I think the number one They're very easy and I make something happen Let's try Adalo, what do you think? - Okay, so let's go for Adalo. So, look, I love having pictures in there. I think it would suck if we don't have any pictures in there. - We should definitely do pictures. There are a couple of Stable Diffusion or we can even use, let's say, like, DALLE. I would suggest DALLE because as far as I know through Zapier, so we should try that. What do you think? - Okay, so you think we Okay, that's good. Because, I mean- I'm 93% sure. - We need to try that. We definitely need to try. - Cool. I don't know, maybe like I'll not sleep today, so - Have an espresso, man. (Nik laughing) - You too. Bye. - Thanks, man, see you. - Just talked to Heini. Unfortunately we have and the apps that I tried just don't work, so I'm going to try for generating pictures and let's see how it'll work out. - Okay, obviously some challenges, but we are moving forward. - I just reviewed the app and this is the new schema of the app. Instead of FlutterFlow we and instead of Midjourney which has direct integration to Zapier and that one has direct It should be easier. (fast forward effect) All right, I tried Adalo and I think we definitely I made three screens here. The first one where we to provide what the story will and then the screen with the story itself. And this is how Zapier integration works. Everything is without writing Very simple, just basically, Number one is a trigger. So, what should happen so that this integration and the trigger is a trigger I used here, a new record that was created in Adalo. What exactly is when there is a new kind of, like, story Let's say I want a story about Spider-Man, so Spider-Man will be Then there is the action, which is conversation in ChatGPT, meaning that we just sent this and back we receive a the story itself. - When you build with no-code It sort of ties everything together. Really a fantastic tool. Nik sort of ties it - So now let's finally In order for this app to work, we need to provide a or description or the title of the story, what the story will be about. Let's use something weird. For example, Superman and Spider-Man. Let's see what we generated. Because the app works with multiple tools such as ChatGPT and DALLE, unfortunately it takes some There's a lot of content so I will wait and I will and we'll restart when it's time. The time has come. So, I'm excited to see what Hope it will not be weird. Okay, (laughs) so here we go. Superman and Spider-Man. So, the app provides, then the piece of text for the picture. Then based on this content, it generates a new one and Where is Spider-Man and where is Superman? It's very weird though, And, yeah, this is kind and the ending of the story. It's always weird and sometimes it's fun, sometimes it's strange, but, nevertheless, you create a new one and provide a new prompt and basically start all over again. Okay, I just finished the app and it's time to send it to Heini. I'm honestly a little so let's see what he says. - Now, let's see what he's built. (cell phone ringing) - Hey Heini, how's it going? - Things are good. I mean, you sent me the I mean, how could you do that in 24 hours? This is obviously AI too, right? It's pretty wild. - Yeah, I loved it as well. I'm honestly a little bit surprised that we actually made it It literally, like, did you see Four blocks of text It actually works. What story did you generate? - Yeah, I did a story about the monster that lived in a rock in the Faroe Islands. So- - There are a lot of pictures of rocks and the Faroe Islands. It was really cool. I mean, I'm just impressed and, I mean, you could also ask yourself, could you do this a year ago? - I'm quite sure that probably no. But I'm quite sure that in we literally will be even maybe, like, VR apps or something. So we'll see. - It is astounding to with no-code and AI. And yes, you are lucky. You can actually try the app yourself. Link in the description. Okay, before we get to what we learned, I would like some ideas from you. We'd like to do another So if you have ideas, If you don't have ideas, look through the comments and we might just build that. Now, let's have a look at what we learned doing this project. If you want to move fast, use Adalo instead of FlutterFlow. FlutterFlow gets too complicated. ChatGPT is incredible. It can help you build a lot. Make sure whatever tool and that API connects with Zapier. You really don't have to code. This can be done with no-code. And you can actually build It's pretty wild. If you want more content just like this, please consider pressing and you won't miss any future videos. Thank you very much for Now, stop watching and go build something. (upbeat music)