If you ask my personal opinion, I think common in the universe. It's entirely solar system, Jupiter, which is thought to have a vast alien life, I mean life like bacteria, I think complex intelligent life, like very rare. And super intelligent probably exceptionally rare. But this is you read about alien visitations, or see depicted as looking almost like humans. heads, or they look like some other on earth. This is a good reason to be visitations because aliens are highly anything like us. would evolve in a completely different set of environmental conditions, and to look anything like us, despite what look so different, that we may not even if aliens really did visit us, what would perspective? The explanation is coming up Guys before we talk about life on other great that's available right here on like my videos, then type of streaming documentary service It was founded by filmmakers and documentary content. This video was watched on Magellan TV called, &quot;Aliens walk among us.&quot; It's hosted by none other than Captain Kirk of Star Trek, William TV include history, nature, and of course, any of your devices, as well as your TV interruptions, and in 4k. Magellan TV has Ash viewers. If you use the link in one-month trial. I highly recommend in the description. To understand what let's look at the raw ingredients that universe, compared to our solar system. are, in order, carbon, silicon, magnesium, iron, and sulfur. exactly the same. So as you can see from essentially made of the same elements So in that sense there's nothing special local group of planets, and our Sun. And iron, oxygen, silicon, magnesium, and carbon. elements than the rest of the solar system. relatively modest gravity compared to like Saturn and Jupiter. It's not able to other lighter elements which tend to not be surprising, then, that the lightest more concentrated in the Sun and the Saturn. But the key element of every known biological molecule. Carbon simultaneously. This makes it well suited life, such as DNA. Organic chemistry, or largely on carbon. Is this unusual? Is other planets of the universe as well? Earth and say, &quot;well there's a lot more look at the periodic table, silicon is in why can't alien life be based on silicon? more closely at the properties of carbon instead of silicon, even though it abundant. The four bonds on carbon are stability. With silicon, the first bond is instability of certain chemical carbon is capable of forming large Silicon is not. It is unstable. So the chemistry with silicon is just not there. other atoms, such as nitrogen, hydrogen, and oxygen is about the same strength. So it's relatively easy for carbon to react other words, it is a more reactive atom reactive with other elements, and not as life chose carbon, when silicon was much life based on silicon instead of carbon life on Earth have in common? All life adenosine triphosphate, or ATP, to store life on other planets is based on carbon, molecule, either ATP or something similar. Water is the most abundant compound in surprise, because it's made up of most abundant elements in the universe. over a large temperature range. is also there. So life based on water not be a bad bet to presume that planets could be based on carbon that chemistry could not exist in other methane, which is prevalent for example what is known about earthly chemistry, it intelligent life. Would aliens be in the identical. But temperature-wise, Earth is the only planet or moon where water can liquid, and gas at the same time. So for foggy day, and see an iceberg, you're same time. There is a critical zone, or not so hot such as mercury, where it gets so hot that water boils away, but also not too cold ,where water freezes. This is provides the medium, or solvent, in which This can't happen in ice, and it so 100 degrees Celsius, is close to the our planet was too hot, organic chemistry could certainly have a different ratio different gravity. According to the many more planets bigger than Earth than there's a larger prevalence of so-called planets about 1.25 to 2 times the size two times to eight times that of Earth. rocky planets, like the earth and Mars, for now, let's presume that we would need perhaps 0.9 times to 1.1 times the size with 200 billion stars, such a narrow plentiful - in the millions. So let's look planet, in the habitable zone of a and water. To do this, I've teamed up with Biblaridion. Check out their YouTube this. some of the tendencies we see in Some life forms would gain energy from would survive by feeding on other case, these life forms would need a way waste, which may take the form of a body feeding and excretion. More complex sensing and reacting to their noses, which would form the equivalent of evolved many times among completely of octopuses, scallops, insects and independently of each other, but still seems likely that eyes might be common might be sensitive to different adapt for the peek spectrum of their own So they might see the world in a very They might be able to see into the insects, or to sense infrared, to detect vipers or vampire bats. However their more than one, since having multiple eyes depth. Animals on earth have anywhere to over a hundred, like in some bivalves. lineage of complex animals is a whether it's radially symmetrical like symmetrical like in arthropod and always accompanied by cephalization, the the mouth towards one end of the body, likely that like many animals on earth, a some form of symmetry, and have a that bears at least two eyes and a mouth. would classify it, large brain capacity and the ability to They would need some way of transmitting generation, and to communicate and language. Their language might not be but perhaps involve other modalities, pheromones, changes in skin color, or these. To build the tools and structures they would also need a means to such as limbs, or digits of some sort, to to perform fine motor movements. These can hold objects, perhaps prehensile they live in the sea? In the clouds of a point of Earth, there is no complex life And most intelligent species on earth You might say, &quot;what about dolphins and these animals were once land mammals (evolved on land). They went back to live in the sea. That's why they still need to breathe air. Does evolutionary bias towards higher professor Bernard Bates, at the advanced technology would have to be on kick-start it, by providing a survival hunting tools. This can't happen in water. also does not penetrate as deeply in 200 meters in the ocean. So the energy is less than the energy available on complex creatures to evolve. Once again, species lives on land, it would also need Limbless creatures might slither like gastropods or worms. But on earth, both evolved legs, which are much more and maneuverability, than other forms of would likely do the same, if they have into walking limbs. Having evolved from a four legs. Though some, like humans, while arthropods can have anywhere from However there is a trade-off here when the more legs an animal has, the more will be needed to power and coordinate especially at large body sizes. It could towards a smaller number of legs, though certainty. This trade-off is especially that have specialized for efficient also involves complex behaviors such as demands a greater intelligence. In humans, alongside a shift to a more predatory descend from predatory ancestors, and number of walking limbs that are movement. There are probably only so many ways an alien can efficiently see, eat, walk, and communicate. And natural selection on their planet would probably weed out inefficient body plans. How prevalent is universe? Dr. Yael Kissel, scientist at scientists believe that most life in as a whole, is likely to be bacteria inevitably involved into more important to realize that evolution selects for whatever traits provide an contexts, evolving to become more detriment to some species. For example, have achieved a relatively high level of But if they became any more intelligent, supporting a large complex brain may further intelligence may not be selected beyond any other living thing on earth, huge energy investment, not only by our technology, may be an aberration and not of evolutionary circumstances. So we may result of a series of coincidental vast numbers of planets in the universe, is an accident, takes a long time, requires size planet, located at just the correct moon to balance our seasons, and being in didn't get wiped out by a meteor or company, intelligent neighbors somewhere! away that we may never actually the SETI Institute, believes that our not be with carbon-based life, but he believes that our first close creatures, but with their highly silicon chips for processors. They would of the galaxy. This makes sense if you evolution of us here on earth. We are nearest neighbor, Proxima Centauri, humans. So the next time you see little probably fantasy. Life-forms that we than us. But they will almost certainly not be then check out the Biblaridion channel you like this video give us a like and answer all them. I will see you in the