They say beauty's only skin deep, but there's clutch. Ever wonder what men notice? And what turns out that sometimes it's so hard-wired looking for... until w e find it. Blue eyes? Swipe right A study from the University of Tromso in Norway of their partners. They also showed participants eyes had been manipulated to change color. men showed no preference over any particular blue-eyed women. The reason? Genetics. The only way a child parents, or to two people who each carry part authors say that, conscious or subconscious, might be linked to one extra layer of paternity Cougar-town Random gray hair? Higher age bracket? According the University of St. Andrews and the University what some men are into. There's a cultural norm for what's considered so universally admired. Here, researchers helped shape what we find attractive. The over 30 were more likely to find older women long-term relationships. It's suggested that something about the influence of that parent-child adults. And that's not all. Mom genes Studies suggest that parents' influence goes even beyond age. Another study from the known as imprinting -- well known to exist unexplored in humans. The study looked at how likely men -- and and eye color in their chosen partners. They preferences was the hair and eye color of Researchers suggest that it's possible that formed a sort of subconscious bond that suggests the eye and hair color they knew first. "Happy Birthday, what do you want for breakfast?" "Please, don't forget to wash your bottom" Knock-knock Everyone loves to laugh, but according to the sort of humor men and women find attractive &quot;Oh my God...hoowow!" The study found that while women valued both the same sort of things they found funny, someone who's gonna laugh at their jokes. was even more important for men to find someone funny gal-pals were preferred for friendships Angle from above According to a pair of Australian researchers, is a simple one that anyone can master -- the They manipulated a series of faces to appear angles, and volunteers were then asked to found that men were most attracted to faces that they were looking slightly up. When a and looks up at him, the height difference and femininity. Me, Tarzan Both men and women find risk-taking super attractive trait to women, surprisingly, men According to a study by the University of to those with hunter-gatherer personality to what our ancient ancestors would have performed rafting. But it was only ancient risks that were found a seat belt or dabbling in drugs? Not so much. Baby voice While you might think that a husky voice would "Knock yourselves out" -- Studies have shown that what men are really &quot;this is my ja-zam!&quot; According to one study done by University because of the features, figure, and youth the voice got too high, the attractiveness &quot;buzzkill!&quot; In short, that in order to be most attractive, and slightly breathy, all which reportedly But if your voice doesn't rate as &quot;moderately study from the Journal of Evolutionary Psychology, pitch without even realizing it. Eggs-cellence While ovulation's not exactly a trait, it's &quot;You're all on the same cycle. This is very for the next 3 to 5 days.&quot; According to a study in the journal Hormones women as being the most attractive when they Many studies have shown that as women approach odor becomes more desirable, and skin and traditionally found more attractive. Baby got back Think it's the hourglass figure that's most done by professors at the University of Texas, Professor Devendra Singh found that when women .8, they're thought to be the most attractive they found most attractive, but researched Playboy models. An overwhelming majority of had to do with that magic calculation, no to Kate Moss, it didn't matter how much they of all. Heart of gold It's easy to get stuck on looks. But studies respectfulness, and optimism really do make of Westminster surveyed 2,157 male students no body type or shape they liked best. But they chose a wider range of body types and appearance alone. Another study from a group of Chinese universities and women and asked them to rate the attractiveness Two weeks later, the same group was given positive traits made faces more attractive. &quot;It doesn't matter what costume I wear, I am." Thanks for watching! Click the List icon to out this other cool stuff we know you'll love