I'm not one to toot my own horn, but I think quite touching. There's a good chance you're watching touch sensors designed to sense your touch. We take the touch screen for granted these days unless, of course, you've got a Macbook, but it wasn't that long ago that we thought And actually, longer ago than that, a peculiar Here's one of them now. And how do you turn it on? Why, you simply touch it. Anywhere! Well, anywhere that's metal. And built-in to the lamp is a dimming function bright, Brighter, BRIGHTEST! Off. These lamps were everywhere in the 1980's. Well, mostly nightstands and desks. and they seem to have largely disappeared. But why? And how do they work? And who invented them? And when? All these questions and more will be answered Let's start with a bit of history as well and thorough research. If you ask The Google when the first touch you'll get the rather on-the-nose result of 1984. Now I mean that seems plausible, after all they were all the rage in the age of beige, new age raves and Nicolas Cage's coming-of-age, but if we follow the source of this "helpful" snippet, we'll see it references this patent. Now, while Scott M. Kunen does indeed have "Touch controlled switch for a lamp or the like" and while it was indeed filed in its original form in 1984, it doesn't take much reading, in fact to find "At the present time several 'touch [whispered strenuously] in which touching an electrically conductive part of the lamp causes the power level to in discrete steps." So clearly Mr. Kunen did not invent the concept in fact the patent in question is for a device allowing you to touchify an existing lamp with a simple plug-in module. So who did invent it? And when? Well, right there for you in that patent are That's how patents work. Of particular note is this 1953 patent held "relates to a capacity operated control system, and a metal conductive plate simulating a push not by pushing on the plate, but by bringing or upon the plate. Such systems have been called pushless push Now I don't know about you, but I think back into fashion. And the other more directly relevant patent Norman Green, owned by the Aladdin Lamp company. Their genie-ous idea was, and I quote, "to provide an improved lamp which an operator may light or extinguish simply by moving his hand or some other part of his body into proximity with the lamp. A further object is to provide a lamp having improved switching means operable by body capacitance." This patent is from nineteen-FIFTY-four which seems to suggest touch-lamps were available all the way back then. And, sure enough, we can corroborate this "touch lamp" in magazines from the mid-1950's Kiplinger's Personal Finance from 1955. A swanky 1950's big-band ballad begins as highlighted section is read with intoxicating enthusiasm The eleventh Nashville is of course the best. Oh, and adjusted for inflation, this was a So, I hope we've learned here two things; Don't take everything you read on the Internet at face value, and two, Google takes I don't wish to get into the debate over its mission from providing information to &quot;answers,&quot; but here we are. Anyway, better get back on track here before This apparently first-of-its-kind touch lamp, same exact principle as this newer-but-not-quite-modern It uses the capacitance of the human body See, all it takes to make a capacitor is a sort of dielectric material in-between them. You can then store a charge between the two Fun fact, if you take a potato, cut it in and bring them close together but not quite touching, then you've made a capacitater! Since your body is a veritable hodge podge of different like skin and fat and muscle and bones and whatnot, you are actually a capacitor of about 100 picofarads. And that means you're useful! Let me now state that I am no Big Clive and most electronicals is limited at best, but Aladdin's lamp does when you touch it. Lucky for me the patent describes this in Links to this patent and other information wishing ;) to look for yourself. Norman Green's Fantastical Lamp used a pair a selenium rectifier (an early kind of diode), some coils, you! Both of the tubes were triodes, one of which This created a voltage across the resistor. This served to limit the amount of current That current was directed through the relay current is produced to actuate the relay and Now, one side of that resistor is attached When you touch that, your body's capacitance You increase the capacitance between the sensing which thanks to a whole bunch of phenomena that are really frankly outside my ability to comprehend, cause the oscillation in the first triode to stop, which the triodes together, which will then energize The lamp will thus turn on. Once you stop touching it the oscillation so it no longer produces actuating Touch it again and we repeat everything, this Frankly I am astonished that touch lamps existed But they apparently did. I am also slightly terrified by the fact that merely by the relay coil and resistor on one Doesn't sound particularly fail-safe, though the device still functional depending on its Still, the patent seems to suggest the intent Neat. These lamps were apparently marketed as "Magic patent, immediately following a section on and not find the switch in the dark, reads "Furthermore, the fact that the lamp can be controlled merely by moving the hand close to the base lends a magical or mysterious quality to the lamp, which greatly increases Yeah, the vacuum tube circuitry of the lamp even need to touch it directly, you could switch the lamp on or off. Now, for those unfamiliar, vacuum tubes are Most rely on thermionic emission of a heated It likely consumed 10 or 20 watts all the of the lamp, it's no wonder these early You can't even find a good picture of one "Aladdin lamp" leads to some rather animated results. So if these were around in the 1950's, well how come they seem to be a product of the 1980's? Well, almost certainly because that was when Until then, adding touch functionality to but by the late '70s we had mastered integrated to add touch sensing was... pretty cheap, and also small enough that it could be incorporated in virtually any lamp. We could also easily add dimming functions And best of all, these solid-state electronics This particular lamp is from somewhere around 1986 or Its three-level behavior is pretty typical and while it's not sensitive enough that you don't need touching it literally anywhere but the glass will make it change brightness. If I plug it into a Kill-a-watt we can see not ideal but also not enough to notice At least, if you've only got one. If we open the bottom we can see the base hides The lamp cord is connected via wire nuts to the hot and neutral wires from the lamp socket board and another neutral lead. A small yellow wire attaches to the stem of That's the sensing wire of the circuit. There's a sixteen pin chip here which I but it's pretty clear that this is the brains Most of the components you see on the board from mains voltage for that chip. And over here you can see a triac. This serves as a high-speed switch for the Triacs are fast-enough at switching that they off the power mid-wave on each AC cycle with Most dimmer switches use triacs so it's The benefits of using an integrated circuit are its ability to self-calibrate, flexibility in programming and thus behavior, minimal power consumption, and added safety. With a microprocessor at your disposal, you on the yellow wire and track that over time. All it needs to do is repeatedly put a tiny charge on that yellow wire and observe the resulting discharge. No need to have it directly coupled to line When it suddenly changes thanks to a human and thus the total charge, it will trigger In this case, the next stage on the bright, The IC will simply put control voltage on Doing it this way means that the module can When it first powers on it establishes its on lamp's design or even other things you have It's only when that value changes a lot The original Aladdin touch-lamp's circuitry specific lamp since it operated essentially and indeed any analog circuitry designed to accomplish But this? It'll just figure it out. You can actually observe this self-calibration The lamp shines a brief pulse and it won't Most likely as a part of its boot sequence, establish a baseline before it enters a ready And it likely also adjusts that baseline as which helps minimize erroneous triggers. So what happened to the touch lamp? This certainly don't seem to be all that Well, I'm not sure, but they're not dead! You can still buy them. You can even go to the lamp repair section one of these puppies for somewhere between This is essentially the same exact thing as the it even has the same wire colors! Though it has gotten a bit smaller... Want to look at the actual circuit board? Well, thanks to the magic of buying two of right here! As a matter of fact you barely have to do The board is just sitting in a little plastic Listen. [sound of rattling in the box] But sure enough, we find essentially the same Though, since this is much more recent, I And, well, yeah. It does all the same things as this other one. Detects a change in capacitance on the yellow then it goes between bright, brighter, brightest, Though it calls the darkest setting "night" The beauty of these little modules is that you could really add touch functionality to virtually any lamp. In fact this ring is on the yellow lead with base and stem of an ordinary lamp. Though there's nothing stopping you from so you could, oh I don't know, turn on a lamp by touching Or, a little less preposterously, you could connect and use it to control bookcase lighting with a futuristic Since these use a triac for dimming, in general Even this old one works just fine with a modern As with anything dimmers and LEDs there's weirdness but this Philips WarmGlow 40 watt with this pretty old lamp. And to bring this all back to the start, your to tell where your fingers are. Built into the screen is a grid of electrodes brought about by the presence of a fleshy We seem to have decided that this is the best way on the screen like with some alternative technologies Flirtations with using multiple screen technologies and force measurement were abandoned for reasons. The greatest downside of capacitive touch fingers from furiously fighting fictitional but thankfully extraordinary gloves are available to mitigate this drawback. Still, Aladdin was right. There really is something magical about just Maybe these will become fashionable again, reducing their standby power a little. For now though, while your desk lamp may not rest easy knowing that you can have a similar simply by turning your smartphone's flashlight on and off. Thanks for watching, and a special thanks goes out for suggesting this video topic, and also my dad Since I grew up with this, it's not really yeah, I mean this is pretty neat! Maybe they'll see a resurgence some day. Then again, we seem to prefer talking to our lights these days. Oh well. capacitively smooth jazz Well mostly nightstands and desks. And seem to have been... largely dis-- seem to have BEEN largely disappeared! Emulating the good ol' three-way bulb with bright, brighter, brightest! Off. Shhhhh [distressed laughter] I don't wish to get into the debate over the... That's a... that's a very; I don't wish to get int idon'twishtogetintothedebate, staccato. I don't wish to get into the debate over what the consequences are of Google shif... [laughs] Again, idon'twishtogetintothedebate. How many... Ten syllables! Is a pair of conductive things with dehbudebubude be be be be bop. Its three-level behavior is pretty typical of touch lamps of the day, and while it's not sensitive enough that you don't need to touch it, touching it literally anywhere but the glass With a microprocessor at your disposo, you can actually measure the... Disposo. Disposal. I'm saying &quot;disposo&quot; aren't I? Dispozo's quite an interesting clown... You've made a capacitater! [breaks] Doesn't this just seem like a weirdly modern thing, but from decades ago? What happened? Anyway, hey google, turn off the lights. And also learn how to do proper research!