Transcriber: Robert Tucker (Latin American Music) (Applause) (Music) Man: I'm just going to be if you really want to talk Chen Lizra: Just give me the clicker. Man: OK. Got your clicker here. Thank you. Whoo! Man: Really? CL: I guess you Man: Well, right. CL: My name is Chen Lizra. I'm a dancer, author I started my talk because I want you to get you -- kind of -- to gut level. I'm fascinated with seduction, but but also with how you can bring it Since 2005, I've been travelling in order to train with This is when I first started seeing I'm so fascinated with seduction, but mostly because it's such I truly believe that everyone has we just need to unleash it. And I also believe that from a very young age, become a lot more successful in life. So let's examine seduction for a second, and let's take a look what it all means. When we first hear we have a lot of misconceptions. The word has been sexualized that we can't even imagine it We typically associate seduction because we consider it the less honest People who are easily seduced to some degree feel When we think of gender roles, that men are permitted And when we think we merely go to sleeping your way You know how people say, but the money itself is not bad, right? It comes down to and power can be used it comes down to who you are inside. Seduction is exactly the same, it comes down to your DNA I choose to make seduction classy, and to add to it my sense Seduction is really about that you're not using, Would we tell superman Or a doctor not to save a life? But, of course, not. Seduction is about charm, self-confidence and appeal. I'm one of those lucky ones, And I've been observing seeing how aware they seem to be You can say that in many ways, Cuba has been like where I get to study seduction But it's not like Cubans that understand You can experience it in Israel, in Brazil and the Dominicans And yet in Cuba I found a very unique that I haven't found yet and I'll speak about And you'll probably agree that the chances of finding in North America I truly believe that we can learn from Cubans about life and seduction. And having said that, if we were and break it into some kind of a formula, One: desire -- Desire means knowing and then having In Cuba, rumba is the game of seduction The woman is the flirty hen The woman uses her body to seduce the men The guy on the other hand to demonstrate his masculinity. He'll try to decoy her. Launching an attack. He's trying to pecker her She'll notice the attack, she'll mock him and she'll go, Cubans interact on the streets everyday, They keep a tension, a sexy tension, It's like, But if you only tried, then maybe. (Laughter) Keeping the &quot;maybe&quot; alive is the skill and then fuelling them with desire. It's about learning and then triggering them. When there is real desire, it's possible to lure it out. But you really got to get and then give it to them. And when it's done right, Number two: confidence. Strong self-confidence without it you can't go after Our self-image is formed and is deeply affected Cubans praise their kids to feel confident and stunning because they recognize this You'll see them at the pool at the hotel, they're grinding to the music, are grinding right beside them, &quot;Que lindo!&quot; or &quot;Que linda eres!&quot; Add to this that in Cuba because it's a communist country, so there's nothing Cubans, not like us, are not affected by the media to try and think Instead their self-image is formed the environment makes them feel, As a result of all of this, Cubans grow up feeling intense pride no matter what body type And it's this kind of self-confidence to how you present yourself and how you succeed. Body language. When you walk guys and girls check each other out, They're not trying to hide it. And guys call after women And women respond with and how they accentuate because they know and they like it. It makes it really easy because you know Seduction also shows up the kind of look you give, and at times, Body language is because it communicates what you want. Number four: arousal. To effectively seduce someone there has to be an activation waking up in them and luring it out. But first, you have to connect if not, then how will you And for seduction to really work, you have to give it One of the most charming things is how they to go after what they want of getting hurt or getting rejected. They will seduce a woman over and over, even after she said &quot;no&quot; slowly sneaking into her heart In a &quot;no&quot; there was a &quot;maybe&quot; That's damn sexy. This fearlessness of failure that I've noticed in some that I've ever met. But they can do this because they've developed that they can easily distinguish and a &quot;no&quot; that means &quot;maybe&quot;, because the last thing you want to do So what I really want you to get is that everyone has The trick is to learn Seduction is a skill You can call it: wooing, persuading, winning someone over, But what it is, is really that I talked about here in the talk, three: body language, four: arousal, to build the connection It's also important to remember but an art, and that's the beauty of it, And like any art, But to fully gain self-expression in it, and make it your own. My hope is that you will see seduction as a valuable life skill, Because so many people as they grow into adulthood, And wouldn't the world be I really believe that seduction and self-confidence leads to success Master seduction and you can have Anything. I did get a TED Talk, didn't I? (Laughter) Thank you. (Applause)