I asked for one rib and I got here at Miller's Barbecue! Hey everybody! This is Randy and very very excited today! number 1293 and my sixth food beautiful country of Finland! of Finland. We've got lots of Miller's Barbecue. Thank you guys all for Hameenlinna is a beautiful area. the big things is to come here been here for about three Challenge has been on the menu &quot;Beard Meats Food&quot; - We're on the that this is one of his he's ever attempted. So, the hour to finish - all on two features most of the meats here at Miller's BBQ, and comes from the fact that back this place was created. It was and flour and all that stuff Sweden. So, right here, there's is made just for the in some optional stuff because be trying to beat his record. challenge with his friend Jesse challenge from Finland. So, half rack of their pork ribs, challenge, we've got two big brisket. We've got some beef then this is pork belly. So, five, and then I love cornbread. here. We've got a couple their macaroni and cheese, which on top. We've got a whole bunch We've got coleslaw, and then chicken thigh that is boneless. barbecue sauce. And then, this is mayo. Thankfully, because I've challenge, they are going to going to try to finish it. Blue great to everybody that likes that list. There's actually a basically have one liter of Zero, and then I had to get a which is Karhu. As part of finish 500 milliliters (mL) worth of enough. I've got a mix of their mango. So, I've got all this. If you beat the challenge, you You get a sweet hat to add to name and photo up on the Wall the last two years. There's been going to be trying to do is time record, which was set by Food.&quot; He finished in 26 minutes his time, I will not only get also get EUR100 euros to use going to shut up and eat. Let's (Crowd clapping and cheering) Alright, I'm actually going to chicken, I think, because then I some of the bones, but ain't One, two, three, BOOM!! Oh yeah!! Okay. That's good!! I asked for one rib and I got vault. Big portions here at I'm not drinking the soda the food is no good. I'm required. The water is not. Chicken and ribs are gone. challenge. I'm going to do one do sausage. Oohhh!! That brisket is freaking good! his partner own this place. Aki for like 10 years. They know (Crowd clapping and cheering) With all due respect to Adam, So, him saying this challenge going to be good. The brisket and sausage were We're 6:50 in. We've got under record and get the EUR100 euros. Adam's so tiny that he made huge. I guess it's meant to but I think we're going to 8:45 in. Almost done Alright, brisket is gone. Pork Sausage is gone. Now, it is beef cheek time, which.... This is good beef cheek, and I'm For those of you who do not It comes from the and it is tender and tasty! 13:05. Done with the I don't want to do anything cheese. They're saying because optional. I'm just going to set it after. It's put off to the side. Yes, okay. Is there a name for Well, they're delicious as to get the sauce down. Let's get more of this coleslaw I'm going to do this because it of the way. This is going to be at that! So much corn in there. Mmmmm!! Oh yeah!! Done with coleslaw. Alright. 19:11. We're cutting it close. I might Let's do mac and cheese. I think Done with half of the required I'm starting to struggle. I should not have ordered ribs. Oh, this is so close! 25:37. [Aki] Don't let the British win. [Randy] This is for America. and all the people that won't shut [Crowd] Randy! Randy! Randy! [Randy] AAAAHHHHH!!! As you can see, I left no doubt. Just to confirm, what was Adam's [Randy] Well, not today, son! I cannot say that I but I am happy because I added a lot of food, and then big half rack of freaking ribs (crowd laughter). So, I was still able to do it. and all of it is just &quot;banter&quot; Of course, I love Adam's I cannot say enough about how I can say all five - four of those meats were all delicious. I think as being my favorite, followed by the beef The coleslaw was Greek yogurt I really enjoyed that, and especially loved Everything was great. So, you can't go wrong of Finland. So, thank you guys all for That was win number six in Finland. The next is going to be my So, that will be at a place called Big thank you to Aki, his partner, and Miller's Barbecue for the delicious which was possible today. It was Even if you don't want to split the challenge platter with your friends, you order here. I saw some fantastic. They've got other here! If you liked this video, one or this one - both past in Finland, but either way, I'll Win before you begin! Thanks (Crowd clapping and cheering)