- This is a video of the - The best. - Like this guy who can make or this person who can do - That's crazy, we should hire him. - All right, so we have a bus This dude's cleaning at - He's sonic and he is speed - For some reason this reminds me of like a battle in Naruto. I wanna go there and but each on a different plate. So then he has to pick up all of them. I wanna see a God in action. - Oh, this is the type of stuff I like. This is working smarter, not harder. - No way, is this how you actually do it? - This is how you break But this guy got lucky. - That is probably the I wonder if it costs less to hire him because he doesn't need a real truck. - It probably calls more to insure him because there's a good chance - Bro is moving. - Oh my goodness. Oh, it's firefighter truck. - Oh, snap. - We assume he's a firefighter. He could just be a guy who - We? You! - Sorry. - All right. This is the fastest Whopper ever made. - I'll be the judge of that. Actually, that person with the clock will be the judge of that. - Look at him, his positioning, his face. That is intense focus. We're about to witness history. - Oh, ketchup fell over part of his plan. See, now it's ready. Oh my God, it was ready for the squirt. - Yes. - I would say I'm impressed, Go order Beast Burger - Burger Kings do Beast Burger better. - Oh my God. - Oh, that's sick. - Oh - He's just popping off. - If I saw that, I would and give him a $50 bill. - Yeah, I have a strong urge I wonder what's gonna happen. Oh wait, that's not what I thought they were about to pop off. - This man knows physics, He's unstoppable. You know what's more impressive than that guy who's - Who? - This rectangular ice cream cone. What is this? - I got it. Circular ice cream cone. This ice cream goes up to it drips down the side. It's sticky and it sucks. This one, it drips into the box. - Yeah, it's like a bathtub. It's like an ice cream cone bathtub. - Oh my God, this is genius. - Whoa, it's still going. - Look at that. And he made a sword with it. This guy's smart. I've always thought about doing this, but I've never done it - Until he falls. - I like the music. It makes it feel like I'm - Making a fence. - They make it with sand. Oh my God. That's so genius. Cause then they can just pour. Oh my God. That's Minecraft. But real life. This is the world's best cucumber chopper. - I've already sliced my if this was me. - Wow. - Here's the problem. Cucumbers tastes horrible. - Whoa. Oh, when the clip said a bunch of men pounding on the title card, This is cool. - More importantly, Are they like literally to the earth? - I know what they're doing. They're building experiences together. - Losers. Window cleaning contests. I wouldn't believe if it's real if there wasn't a giant - You're not telling of the International Window - IWCA? - It's just a bunch of old dads. This guy's good though. Marty's killing it. Yeah! - Cleaning up dishes. - He's making a flower. - Somebody's dad. He's making a flower. I strive to be that annoying of a dad. - Wow That's impressive. That's someone who loves their job. - [TikTok ker} Got I am super proud of this one. - Is that toilet paper? - I'm going to call the - Oh, I did not know where that was. Oh my God, that is insane. - Wait so he tie dyed that? - He tie dyed that with rubber bands in certain ways that those - Some would say, Epic. Oh, it's the attractive - I see the comments all the time. Everybody's mom is on Oh, he's ripping it this time. Nice. - Moms, leave a comment on the video. I really want to get our mom Bobcat Pro driver. - Whoa, he nice with it? - Oh, oh. - Bro, why is this guy so good? I would love to see what - I'd hire him for a circus. Hey, let's watch this - Wait, no, that's not his wood. That's a piece of wood. - Oh, is this a bed post? - That or a lampshade. - We'll never know. - You will forever wonder Ever. Good luck sleeping tonight. - Oh yeah. I did this as a kid with my four wheeler. I lived in the country. I had a four wheeler. We didn't have these fancy go-karts. - Oh my God. That's pretty innovative. - Fun fact, I heard that go-kart. Speeding past my house and I looked out and Carl was - Bro, why don't I get - I guess you just gotta 3:00 AM adventures. Whoa. He said physics pause for one second. I gotta look cool. Okay, it touched his Did anybody see it pour down his finger and go into the drink. - Oh wow, I'm still taking the shot. Of great juice, shot of great juice. - I mean, I could trim a I don't feel like this one's any special. Show me a penguin or a giraffe. - Oh, he missed a spot. - He missed his spot. - Hit the spot. Yeah, there we go. - I almost ended the video. This person's cutting up some food. - They have pretty hands. Is that Chandler? - Today we are making - Wait, since when can Chandler cook? - With the sponsors video, HelloFresh. Anyone in the world can cook. They have 30 different weekly recipes that you can choose from to HelloFresh even cuts down on food waste over using grocery store. And most importantly, Instead of ordering delivery, or a grocery store, just If you don't know what to cook or just in general wanna go to hellofresh.com right now and use code reacts65 for 65% off. Plus it's free shipping. No reason not to. Look how good that food turned out. If Chandler can make food like that, anyone can make food like that. So go to hellofresh.com and and free shipping whenever Let's go eat at Chandler's house. - As long as he's making HelloFresh. Building a cell tower. Oh my God, that is insane. - How'd they get up there? Oh my goodness. - Old man with ten lawnmowers. - This is probably the coolest thing I've ever seen in my life. - This is the smartest old - This guy pulls up to your front door, demands your girlfriend. What's you doing? - It's hers. I mean, it's his, I don't know. I'm so confused by these lawnmowers. He can have whatever he wants. He can have the house. My dog. The yard. - Wait, what's going on here? - Oh - Drift. - Drift acholic. Yeah, this guy's good at parking. This is the most British a man getting excited Oh my God. They're playing Minecraft IRL, put the Minecraft music over it and then when he puts make the chest sound. That's funny now. Lighting a lighter with an excavator. - No way. - What? That is so cool. - Why did he have to use Couldn't he use like a rock or something? - He just borrowed everyone's gimme your phones. - Give me your phones. I need them, they might break. This guy needed a trim bad giving a good shear call him Ed Shearing. No - That's not the same person. There's no way that's the same person. Hold on. It is! He made that guy look like a with that haircut. Wow, that's wild. They say the hair makes the man. - Wait what happens here? - He's destroying the,- - But he's on a crane. He's like, I'm free. Oh my God. It's Jason Bourne. I feel like I can do that. Oh my God. - Delivering your food on time. - I want to go here right now. - Hey bro. It's the hundred pancakes - They're finally here. - One for a bowl. Oh my gosh. I didn't even know this was here. - Let's go, with the - Whatever this restaurant He can clean it up quick. - I'm leaving whatever to go be a rollerskate- - Yeah, you're right. They just keep unlocking - I give him free food. - That's gotta be in Japan. And why do we live in America, man? Look, they got it figured out. - But is she drawing? Oh my gosh. - Is she better with her - She's doing them all at the same time. - The ones with her hand - There's no way this is real. I, I refuse to believe it. If this is real, it is factually the coolest thing I've ever seen and I've said that many Zoom in on the bottom right one. She drew that with her foot while drawing with her other foot. You have no talent compared to her - I, you're right. - Neither do I. - This looks like a really good way for a customer to be like all right I'm walking out - Using a water shield. - Oh, that's cool. Oh, it was like a propane So he is using the so he can turn it off. Genius. Where do you, where did - I don't know where the fire came from. - He is Prince Zuko. Refueling an RC car. Oh, this is one of those cars that runs off of like pure alcohol. That's why they're so fast. Look at that thing. - Remind you, when we tried Oh my god. - Wait, is that really how they film? - Wow, he is really good at that. - He might just put Tariq out of a job. Oh my God. So the wasps were just It's like the wasps are paid actors. - Well, I think the wasp for between the fights of wasp Makes sense. - Funny pan sound. Is it the spin and drummer guy? Yeah. Go drum guy. Go drum guy. - Would you say he's the - I would say he's probably in the world. - Thank you so much for watching. I hope you enjoyed it. If you haven't already subscribed. - Please.