There were all kinds of and slithering But have you ever stopped the smallest animal on Earth? Let's find out on today's [music playing] In order to answer we first need to for a much more basic question. What actually is an animal? Seems simple, right? Well, as it turns actually gets a bit murky. Scientifically is any living organism that's eats organic material, and can reproduce. Humans fit the bill. We're made up of trillions But there are lots of that they're made up of just There are some living that are made up of just one Well, that means they're but prokaryotes instead. That's just a fancy they're a super basic, In fact, their cell doesn't which is what controls a cell. More complex cells, like Inside that nucleus that helps make us into than a single cell. These types of organisms Almost all living organisms are eukaryotes, including In 2011, the smallest known a jellyfish called a Myxobolus. They can be really small, like That's around 1/1000 of an inch. Really tiny. Of course, this is just we currently know about. New discoveries are So who knows? Before long there could crawling around somewhere. OK, so this little be the smallest animal But it does beg the the smallest known see with the human eye? The answer to that on the second largest island That's where discovered the smallest known around the jungle, called Paedophryne amauensis. The average adult only grows from end to end, which is only on the back of your pencil. Then there you have it, a with a surprisingly So for now those will remain the smallest And our little frog to be the world's smallest until we find something Over eons of time, there have who have walked the Earth, and swam in the oceans. But have you ever what actually is the largest Let's find out on today's [music playing] Many of the biggest live hundreds of thousands or Take Gigantopithecus, The largest ape to ever of modern day orangutans, between 8 and 10 feet tall. That's mighty big to us humans. But it pales in comparison The largest creature is the African elephant, to 7 tons, which is about the truck. A full grown be up to 35 feet and stand about 12 feet tall. OK, that's the largest But what's the Well, believe it a dinosaur or a woolly of colossal creature That's right. It turns out the largest animal But it doesn't live on land. It thrives deep in the than any massive meat It's the blue whale. And it's not even that close. Blue whales can be anywhere long when they're fully over 100 tons. To put that into about as long as three school than a space shuttle. Their heart is about And their arteries are to actually climb through. They're so big that can stand together on Even baby blue whales are big. A newborn calf is and already weighs more This makes blue whales not just but the biggest You might imagine that lived millions of But, nope, maybe the is the Argentinosaurus, weighed around 180,000 pounds of a blue whale. It might seem surprising to us. But it actually that the world's biggest rather than on land. Land animals have to be able But sea creatures from the water, to grow nice and, There's plenty of that can do all kinds of damage. But who is the most Let's find out on today's [music playing] We have lots of good candidates Take elephants for example. They're the largest and can be fiercely They have no problem dribbling or even entire villages And if that wasn't elephants also have which means they might even wronged. Hippos are another of Earth's Even though they hippos are huge and more for no reason at all. And yet, the deadliest is also one of the smallest-- mosquitoes. These bothersome little bugs can spread viruses when they suck your blood. Expert's report that nearly get a disease from a leads to somewhere between Malaria, dengue, of the many diseases that you if you live in high-risk areas. But before you start there is some good news. Since the year 2000, have led to an almost 40% And unless you live there's no real risk of So next time you're on a safari, from the elephants and hippos. And definitely wear bug spray. [music playing] Every year more and more of going extinct. But have you ever what causes animals to go Let's find out on today's [music playing] Of all the animals that 99.9% are now extinct. The first and most common is what we're going to call This is when a species dies like climate change, a reduced food supply, or of all three. Most natural extinctions happen or even thousands of years. But every once in a while, can lead to a quick like the meteorite that Natural causes may have animals went extinct throughout But over the last humans have given nature as the biggest That's right. Over the last 500 have hunted lots of Take the passenger When European settlers first in the late 1800s, there were 3 pigeons living there. By the 1800s, hunting and was so widespread in US pigeon died in 1914. And that's just one example. Some species, like the Millions of bison until the Europeans arrived. Hunting was so intense that Sound familiar? Well, unlike the this story has a happier ending. A handful of ranchers gathered to save them from extinction. Since then their And more than 300,000 on farms and national parks [music playing] Animals are also hunted for hides, or horns. And hunting isn't cause animals to go extinct. Habitat loss is a When we build giant the natural land that is destroyed, leading Pollution can poison the land, and has at least 700 of extinction right now. So just remember, like even the mightiest animals if we're not careful. Have you ever stopped to with each other and wonder, talk to each other? Let's find out on today's Experts say that all all around the world are One person talks. Then the other responds We just call that, And it might seem basic. But it forms the foundation And believe it or not, most tend to turn take There's still lots needs to be done on how But experts are confident communicate with each other. In fact, anyone who spent time knows this. Dogs and cats respond to that they can understand. They can also talk back to you. Most pet owners can tell when or needs to pee All of that is your All the different are a form of language-- barks, roars, and songs are all to communicate. According to have one of the best out there. They don't just to tell other prairie dogs They can also use more let the others know the and oncoming speed of In most cases, experts to understand what animals But it's pretty clear are always talking. So do animals talk Absolutely. It just might be a while before they're saying. [barking] [music playing] Ah, huh, what? Oh, sorry, guys. I was having a Speaking of dreams, stopped and wondered what's head while it sleeps? Do animals have dreams Let's find out on today's [music playing] The hardest part about answering is that, well, pets can't But, basically, everything we animals dream comes from what Each night about an hour or your eyeballs will behind your closed eyelids. This stage of your called REM or REM sleep, which During this stage, your But your brain is as active For humans, the REM stages Many scientists have looked of sleeping animals to try and for all. What they found is that almost a REM stage when they sleep. And cold blooded animals, like don't. But the research Researchers at MIT and measured their while they move towards food Once the same rats fell they measured their brain again This led scientists to dreaming about running Many experts believe the Like rats, pups likely to day lives and experiences. Pretty cool. Even cooler, the smaller Small dogs can have dreams while bull dogs can have an In another study, scientists of singing birds. Once the birds fell asleep, And you guessed it, was almost exactly the same. The experts still But this has led many to believe dreaming about singing or in their sleep. So does your little Many experts think it's likely. So next time your dog while it's sleeping, she's probably dreaming about ball in the sky. That's a good boy, [barks] [music playing]