Okay ,so I am about 10 m away from the rental car, the first time. My first time ever driving the card, to put it here? Here? No, here. There we that should be... this is drive, neutral, activated. It's telling me what's around me, so the throttle is very very sensitive. You just... and high resolution, the throttle. Come on, drive, This is the future! EVs are the future! We some indicators. This is eerie. The silence is eerie. full power. I think I have a version of the Model Oooh, okay. Yeah, I expected that. I watched Tesla Somebody's going to try to merge ahead of me. I can't get over this, there's there's so it's giving me... I don't know... the camera is recording I can see through the window, I'm not screen while I'm driving. Okay, it sees the van, it this, this part here, this is a gimmick. Like why? Why is here at the same time when I can actually see big fat glass here. Look! It's transparent. Look, Okay, the range is like disappearing. I'm not using I'm using AC, because there's nothing here. Is this a menu and a submenu. And it's off. I'm was pretty easy to access, to be honest, it's here and then here but... [ beep beep beep ] What? What? What? Oh, it applied corrective directions because I almost Oh, you know why you had to apply that? Because I Okay, I just pulled over for a stop, and I can't a Tesla. I can't find the hazards. Okay, WHO?! Who who has never driven a car. It's somebody who has or public transport I don't know. I'm going to hazards! Yeah, it's not going to happen. Maybe No. It's got to be me. It's got to be it cannot be this hard. The controls, traditional They have been designed around humans, okay? Around a visual connection with things around them. We interact with them. I am not somehow telepathically apps of a car and I cannot control it through my and this, instead of being designed around re-design myself around it. I like it. It's... I like it's it's fine to drive. I mean when you daily driven cars, the stuff that you can buy nowadays, years old, what most people drive nowadays, brand I daily drive a Kia Cee'd from 2015. It has, it's a it for this because the Kia is just as boring as the engine is gone anyway. The feeling of the my daily driver, it sounds like a vacuum cleaner, This is way more similar than we're making The cars... I hate saying this, mechanical, analog things. They're gone and their values are going through the roof. Because these machines will not be replicated again, it's a combustion or an electric car neither of engines, we are doing everything to keep them vibration-free, sound-free, smell-free. The sounds you know. So this, I wouldn't mind daily driving this at all, because I'm not really sacrificing anything Is it the future? Who to the present. Minus this. Minus this idiotic throw it out because it's like, it's preventing It's obscuring controls. it's making me have I saw it man. I saw the car. You don't have to peep! I but seriously, like it's peeping there's a car. I know! It's a backseat driver. It's like &quot;hey did you see? Be Slow down honey. Be careful honey. Be careful honey. That's what this is. And that's the default setting. Or you turn it off and then there's Yeah! That what annoys me. The attempt serious thing than a cell phone, and this proves There's nothing here, to open the glove box. go into a menu and... I've already forgot where it I don't know. So there are no buttons? is new and we have to get rid of buttons? Stupid. and you know, because buttons and lights and bulbs and here you just put everything here. You just That's why other manufacturers have done it as well. of it, while pretending to be, you know, modern and Turning on, changing the lights, look at Why would it be here? So at this, you're trying to operate it while you're driving Definitely lost some nerves there, so yeah. for the hood latch or you know some sort of lever and I'm on the Tesla website and it says &quot;To open &quot;and then do one of the following before icon on the touch screen&quot; Okay, but where is it? That's it. There is genuinely no lever or latch. Oh God. I figured it out. It's it's here, it's here, on the picture of the car and it opens the front inside the front trunk, and now it's going to be a just a bit of empty space and this, and I know what after you spent 15 minutes looking for you cannot let it down, look it's not going Let's try it, see? No, and you have to close it with You cannot press here on the edge with one hand, it also damage it, so you have to close it with two two hands. One hand on this side and one hand on I've done it! I have successfully They should have like achievements on the display. get a badge &quot;Frunk Opener&quot;, 1,000 times &quot;Frunk Master&quot;. [Sounds of the future] Here's something I've always if you floor it from a standstill. Let's find out Yeah... my camera was charging and as But it doesn't do a burnout. It just Okay, something else I want to try is I know I have some charging I'm trying to find a charging station but there's nothing, so yeah. Okay, I found Where is the charging thing? Shouldn't it be somewhere How... to.... charge.... Model... 3 Ha ha! Got it! Look at that! We're going to take our cables so much crap. The big thing goes here, there operating the camera while I'm doing this. What does on there and we're going to see what happens. These are the instructions for the charging. It says &quot;card rejected&quot;, because I need to I have on the phone which should let me charge. told me to download at the rental agency. I'm on I click on the station.... Charge! &quot;Don't have valid card in. I'm sure that with time this will become All these things that are app based, it's always, give your phone number, give your this, they just So, you join and you have to set up a profile and is in general, this is not related to Tesla, it's annoying with the modern world. I have 3 million 3 million different things. eEverything is a profile. I just want to charge my car. Why do you need my address? Why do you need my phone number? these stupid scam calls of people trying to fake other day &quot;oh you bought Bitcoin with us but you I just hung up. And then we wonder why and our personal data everywhere, for conspiracy theorist here, anti- establishmentarian observation from a normal human. I'm not affiliated I stand for nothing. I just stand for the and rationality and I don't stand for the fact I want to buy some units of electricity, that's all You can come in, put a gun in, and you You pay however you want to pay and [ Amazing Caraoke performance] Okay guys we're going to turn the music off. I am now coming up to a very very twisty road and this it comes to electric vehicles, and that is what on a fun road? Tt's blisteringly fast. There's I still couldn't imagine this feeling of what is nice, this sort of just quickness. The steering wheel is horrendous but I have seen, I have seen this, no, uh wait a second, ah, Let's see if it's any better. Okay, here's, a slightly I heard a bit of the [ whiny electric sound], you can hear the electrics I honestly wish I could hear the motors more, The speed is is phenomenal, it doesn't get just dip into the throttle a bit and you're teleporting the traction control to like kick-in? Can I Okay this is a tough one, you got to slide wheel but it's doing an absolutely... come on... ah, You can get sort of a tiny screech from the tires, happen, there we go. Oh, nothing, nothing. It's There's nothing. Just a sound and it keeps doesn't imp.... Okay there is.... something is a Tesla? Traction control? And something more? It think this thing would be a lot more dangerous corner. It is powerful! corner exit. Range is touch to brake hard. Very interesting. I didn't traction control, but you see I want to figure to turn off the traction control but there's the menus and I'm not going to do that on a road The steering wheel is.... Very poor. The car itself, the suspension? Amazing. Cornering? Amazing. Braking? Kind of weird, not bad. Acceleration out of the corners? Absolutely and I'm being generous. Yeah there's but I don't know, can't put my finger on it. But destroying the corners. I feel like, not like I'm It's hard to explain. It is different but it is not bad, experience I had cornering, definitely. But it's is that it absolutely destroys the range. A kilometer of this is 5 km of range, 6, yep, 6. It has giant wheels and really obscuring the weight. It has this immense I can tell really good so it's hiding all eating machine. But there is nothing that is let's explore the limits, let's None of that, none of that playful like a brutally efficient, like a surgical knife. That's the kind of tool it is. It's going to cut through I don't know, it's fast and efficient and like corners. It's like it's saying &quot;This is stupid, corners are stupid, driving, this is all old school, I'm going to do it. I'm going to do don't like it&quot;. I feel like if the car was a person, that's what it would say. But it's great. It's really in this. There's no sliding, there's nothing, it is there you floor it goes through a corner you just feel your intestines going up and down Constantly peeping. I have no idea what it wants me of something and I don't know what it is. When It's always peeping and I look at the Now, see? Beep and nothing. There's nothing. I'll be dead honest. This is fun. It's fun because it's It's an amazing machine and I'm separate that from the attitude, because hats off This is driving me crazy. Hats off to the engineers, to the thing performs, how it accelerates how it does everything, that is absolutely incredible. to making progress from A to B this is a... I don't Again, no emotion, no playful character, but to drive, stop and go traffic, tight parking spots, It makes combustion cars look clumsy in the city There's nothing. There's no jerking, there's no It is beautifully simple (to drive), beautifully smooth and this over something with a combustion engine. cars with combustion, cars with like automatic shifters, whatever they have, they're very similar driving. This is not that different from anything most things this is better because driving it.... driving? No. And it's never going to be, never going to be better in terms of driving than So what I also learned today, and I've been driving this car, is that it demonstrates just how have evolved as a species. It is incredible so divisive as a Tesla, Everybody has an about this car, and it shows just how little we in our ancient sad little tribal mentality from ourselves, we can't understand who we are unless we like that and therefore I dislike and fear that this in the slightest and look at this car and how many people hate it so combustion cars it's ludicrous, and But it doesn't stop there, because when you go into who like combustion cars then they're divided into and then if you go into the group that likes Subarus and hate stanced wheels and like this kind there is further division. There is always to do. It's everywhere. If you look at religions, movements, please stop beeping, if you look always division, always you're just fear of the unknown. It is the primitive tribal to evolve past and it's holding us back and I world sucks. In some regards it is beautiful, in this is why we suck. We can't get over this and get it away from me (this tribal thing) because disliking something that I haven't tried because as I expected. I am negatively surprised by I am positively surprised by the driving to attach labels and judgments and group