I'm Andy Domingo Pellerano, former soldier of the Latin Kings. I used to run a drug-trafficking and this is how crime works. So, it was in 1995 when I got involved. It was because of the name, because of the weight When you say Latin Kings, they thinking, like, &quot;Man, Like, &quot;He's a Latin King.&quot; Initially, it's to uplift our people. This is not a gang, right? This is like a organization, just like you might have First, it would be a validation of who you were in the streets. You just couldn't come from anywhere. &quot;Hey, I want to be a Latin King.&quot; Who are you? What type of work you put in? Who knows you, you know what I'm saying? Are you violent? You know what I'm saying? Like, things gotta line up So, when you have two or three people, they want you to be initiated, they'll have five men that jump you, beat you up in a circle, How you handle that if you made the initiation I remember specifically I was 14, 15 years old, man, it felt like the longest I thought they was giving me extra time. I'm like, &quot;What time is it?&quot; And it was like, &quot;It's And I'm fighting, I'm But when you fall down, They let you get back and that's part of the initiation because if you just stay Then when the time is up, &quot;Amor de rey, amor de rey.&quot; Everybody's saying, &quot;King You hug, and now we're laughing about it. You feel a sense of worth. You feel like you have a sense of purpose. Now you a part of something you a part of something You get in a gang, they give you a name. They change your name. I eventually turned into and I became a slave to my own name. So whether if I had to kill you, if I had to steal from if I had to hurt you, you're because my identity was in this name. And I went hard behind that name. So, they had the peewee That was the trial period just to see your character, see if you a man, if you're willing to fight, if you ready for war. If you're a juvenile, you're and then from there a soldier, and then from a soldier So, in the ranking, they had they had the vice president, which is basically the enforcer. They had the council that would see, it's just like a counselor. Somebody that had a lot of that you would have access to. And then they had the treasurer that would control the finances to allocate where the funds would go. So basically that was So, the first Inca, you You know what I'm saying? So that was a position of authority. And the one that had rank in that period was Paco, and I think in New So, they had some people because they just simply or didn't take it seriously. And then there was cases where some people would get demoted, then somebody else would And there was instances where and there was a green light on them that if they seen them, smash on sight. I kind of skipped the peewee stage because I was doing things that peewees shouldn't have been doing. When I was in prison, I he was a Blood, and I was a King, so then we just joined it together and was able to run the whole compound. Now, in that organization, I I was the president of that, and in Blood, he was the vice president. And I took that from the and was really, that's where I Just really transporting When you in poverty, because you think money is We would steal cars. We had the keys to the Camrys. We had the skeleton keys. You could just go unlock the I was selling drugs, I was robbing people. By any means necessary, whatever I had to do to get because I was deluded by my own vanity. It was whatever came along the way that you was able to get money and put your hands on, you would do. I used to run a drug-trafficking network. One point in time I was going to Houston to bring bricks back from the cartel. We going out to Houston, It takes a long time to count 20s and fives and ones of $48,000. And then dealing with the clubs, we would deal with the I'd give it to them wholesale to where they'll break it all the way down, and they're making money off of that so then I'm making money off of them, but they're making money too. They had a lot of strip clubs. Like, they had Visions. A lot of them was in New Orleans East. One of the clubs on Bourbon that we frequented where we every time we were there, popping bottles, throwing money in the air. All of this a part of that life. But the more money I was making, the more money I was spending, I just think about how throwing money in the air. I can remember everybody and I'm hanging out the window throwing money out the just so everybody could see money flying down the interstate. So, when the Latin Kings it started in Chicago, which So the Latin Kings was formed so they could combat the based upon the Aryan Brotherhood and the other Black gangster disciples and these other factions, so they came together oppressed in that time. There was a lot of Puerto but then it was just you know what I'm saying? Chicago, New York. Those were the main chapters, and Miami, and then it filtered to kind and I remember just at the parades, we would be over 100 deep at the parades. Every King, regardless of where you at, you would fly those colors. The gang signs were still the same, when they would throw up the crown. And every greeting would and they would touch the to unite the crown, and to their heart, tapping their heart. And they would say, &quot;Amor de rey.&quot; They would throw that up. That's why I don't, like, people do that and I don't do it because to me, that brings me back to that place. Like, they would do that. They would bring it Like, that ain't, you So it's a lot with that. But the points, they stood for something. And you gotta think, I'm thinking that in the mind of a child, because I was a child. Like, love, honor, respect, these are good attributes, right? The five-pointed crown is They go into the religion of Kingism. The colors black and gold, the black symbolizing the darkness, the gold being the king rising out of the darkness So, the five points in obedience, loyalty. In other factions, it was righteousness that And then they would have a tattoo where they have a crown, and they'll have five points. I got five points up here. I got the five-pointed crown right here. I got the five-pointed That's how you could identify one another. You would see that on the arm, you would know that's a King. They had Banks Street 31st Hoovers, they had Folks and Crips. All of that was rivals. And that's why basically the ride under the five, because they have the same rivals. When you think about gangs everything was segregated within blocks, within demographics. So so you knew not to go on that block if you was part of a So that was based upon demographics. And then also it's territorial, so like, who's going So if you're selling this other section can't come in and make money on your street You had a force behind you. It was like a machine. Like, this is what you're doing, and these people are here Like I said, in the street life, when you in the streets, When you in the streets, you If not, the Jungle Creed states, &quot;The strong must feed on any prey at hand. I was branded a beast and sat at the feast before I was even a man.&quot; That's the creed that they go by. It's taking. You know, I And if you want to go to You know, it's just not having no concern, no appreciation for life. It was all about you. You gotta think, you're in New Orleans, you in the murder capital. So obviously you're going to carry a gun because people are not So then you would take If it's a fight, let's get in a fight. But if you pull out a weapon, I'm not going to let you kill me, so I need to have a weapon. You don't go to a gunfight And you just had to be There's consequences to actions, right? Because there's a certain that you're to honor and live by. Think about the points Love, honor, respect, obedience, So, when you're dealing with streets, you're dealing with rebellion. So anytime people are there must be built-in pressures. There has to have rule; You wasn't supposed to even sisters. Family was off limits. Homosexuality, that was not permitted. No, it was once a King, always a King. So there was no walking away. When you leave, you had to go through a protocol so you could leave. You paid dues also, and Another rule was, &quot;One moves, all moves,&quot; so basically, if we you better pop off too. And if you don't, then you're Now when we have a meeting, you're going to get beat up for that, so you either take the or you're going to take it aside. When I was a part of it, like, even a guy, he would tell everybody to turn around. Like, nobody was to take pleasure in seeing their brother get beaten. It wasn't entertainment. It's certain degrees of it. There's certain infractions that will enable you to get a violation, then you proceed to move forward, but there was certain infractions to where you would have a green light and it would be smashed on sight. Like, that's it, you're out of here. You're not a part of this. You'll never be a part of this again. And if they see you, it's up. The religious aspect of the Latin Kings is the gravitation Oh, you talking about &quot;amor de rey.&quot; All right, Jesus Christ so when you think of amor, you think of love. God is love. How can this be bad, right? The Bible says we're a chosen generation, a royal priesthood. That's Kings. The initiation process to be jumped in, they would call it the baptism. We would have meetings, and we would meet in a cemetery. Think about that, right? But we would meet in the cemetery. And then the New Orleans now, basically they the same constitution from Chicago. So when we would have meetings, they would open up in prayer. Everybody would get on their they'd open up in prayer, and they would address certain This is what needs to be handled. This is what needs to be seen at. This what needs to be done I would put my money in you know what I'm saying, and that was supposed to go to other Kings that were incarcerated or to look out for But ultimately, I don't You know what I'm saying? We didn't meet as much as they probably should have. When I was in prison and I joined the Latin because they both run they both ride under the five, we would meet on the big yard. And when we'd meet on the big yard, it would be to address any new recruits, you What's going on in this dorm? Where's this money going? We've written up and making sure everybody's going to abide by this so we can have a structure The connection between the and the ones in jail is If you're just a peewee nine times out of 10, you're unless it's your close comrades that was running with you head up. The Latin Kings, to be was based upon recognition like you already having a name and you proving yourself in that prison. So when things came your way, you would handle it with violence. You'd be ready for You would form connections based upon your street connections to really get influence on the guards. Now you got influence on the guards, you have access to things of the world. The more people I would have, I understand how an organization works. So at this point, I'm so this was based upon my security because I wouldn't really but I would capitalize off of it. So the more people, the so the less things I have to because I have people &quot;Look, go do this, go do And then I reap the benefits of it. So then I started going By this time I'm on extended. I'm bored. I have nothing better to do. &quot;All right, let's fight. I'm going to get respect from and then on top of that, you get the respect from because now they know you're not going to be able because you're going to that you gotta do. You been here 10 hours, 12 hours. You might not make it home for 17 hours if you mess with this prisoner. So guess what they do? For me, prison, it made me worse. I didn't get saved in prison. The only thing I got from prison is how to be a better criminal. Man, my breaking point, bro, I didn't care about the fighting. Like, pain don't last long, you know what I'm saying? It was really my kids, man. When I did that five-year bid she was 2 years old when I went. I had been locked up, like, four years, and I was on maximum security. This instant, the officer he was cool with me, so and he lets me hold my little girl, even though I'm non-contact. I got a belt, I got I'm holding my beautiful baby girl. She's like, &quot;Daddy, what is this?&quot; I said, &quot;That's my bracelet, baby. Daddy's shining, you And she looks and she And she grabs my shackles, and I'm making them jump like a jump rope. I was like, &quot;Oh, that's And she looks, she said, &quot;You look stuck. You look like you stuck.&quot; I told you, prison didn't make me better. I'm about to start this But all of this stuff was breaking me. So getting out, for me, it wasn't even a thought because I didn't care what they would do or what they was going to say. I started going to prison at 12, 13. It was stealing clothes and selling them on the block and then possession of a stolen weapon. They kicked my mama's door Then we was all at a parade. We was really going to We had a eight-ball in a bandana. One of the guys had a knife. But, man, God intervened. We ended up getting caught before we could get out and At 16, one count of three counts of aggravated assault, one count of aggravated criminal damage. It was gang-related. Got locked back up, and I was in there 17, and I got a five-year suspended sentence. Then I ended up getting I was on the streets two years, and then I got locked back up. I came home 26, 27, I got I come home 30, 31. Then 32 I overdosed on I was dead on the floor. And I say the paramedics, awesome. They did their job, but He brought me back It's like I didn't care about my life. I'm putting myself in jeopardy. You living that life not knowing that loves you in the process. When I overdosed on heroin, to the church, mandated by the court with a suspended sentence if he leaves, we vacate to trial on the initial So it's either complete rehabilitation program or go I went, because I'm like, I said, &quot;Paco's dead. I'm a new creation in Christ.&quot; That's where rebirth come from. I'm in the process of to where we rehabilitate Some people look at me and Well, what's a pastor Older men need to take accountability to be there for the younger men. They want to see you love them. You gotta give your time Don't just tell them what they need to do, show them what they need to do, right? So how are you going to do that? By proximity, by inconveniencing yourself and going into these neighborhoods, I go hood to hood, block to block, prison to project to juvenile facilities, and I share my testimony, because I make myself transparent. I don't get cleaned up So, I used to rap for the world. I opened up for Kevin Gates, opened up for VH1 &quot;Love &amp; Hip Hop.&quot; I had a beat from Mannie Fresh with Mannie Fresh on the I got a new single out with my wife and our sister Roxy coming out It's called &quot;Amazing Grace.&quot; It's like a 2023 rendition. It's no coincidence, like I'm here talking you know what I'm saying?