I have something like five video topics that and it's driving me up the wall a little bit so here's a hastily thrown-together script brought to you he quipped. Philips, and this is not sponsored in any way which will become increasingly clear as I get more and more upset with them, makes what is to me the holy grail of dimmable LED light bulb. They call the feature I've grown to love the "Warm Glow effect" and the idea is that these can rather faithfully mimic the shifting color temperature of an incandescent light bulb as it's dimmed. Here, take a look; Dimmer, warmer! Brighter, less warm. Kinda dim, kinda warm. Really dim, really warm. I know I'm old fashioned, but this is exactly See, back when hot glowy wires were the norm, a dimmer switch would cause the light output of a tungsten lamp to shift downward (or maybe 3000 kelvin in the case of halogen) color temperature into a progressively warmer-looking color as brightness was reduced. This happened because the filament was and yes the fact that we describe cooler literal temperatures as but language doesn't have to be scientifically precise. Except, of course, when I say it does. Anyway, in an incandescent lamp, the apparent literal, actual temperature because the fantastically hot We call this a 2700K color temp because that filament or 2462 Celsius hot, or 4400 Fahrenhot. When you run one on a dimmer the filament gets less hot, resulting in not only Because again, the color temperature is a function of the At very low light levels, the color is almost an amber, not far And when I want to rest my eyes in a dimly-lit environment, that's exactly the sorta thing I'm looking for. If you know anything about my Christmas light shenanigans, it probably won't surprise you to learn that my biggest issue with LED lighting even once we got dimming pretty-well figured out the dimming experience always seemed wrong to me. Side-note, this isn't a video on how dimmer switches work, but as a brief summary dimmer switches repeatedly chop up the AC sine wave as it goes through them because that's really the only efficient way to throttle output power. While that approach was fine for incandescent lamps, when dimmable CFLs and LEDs appeared, which both well it required some careful circuit A) work correctly with that gnarly chopped up power and B) interpret its relative choppiness as a desired brightness output. The fact that dimmable LED bulbs manage to work at all on this wacky power is pretty impressive if you ask me, although lots of older dimmer switches themselves couldn't handle the strange load characteristics of these newfangled lamps and that's why the dimmability of LEDs is still a sore spots for some folks as you may have needed to replace some dimmer switches if you had a flickerfest. If you haven't looked into this in a long time, LED-compatible dimmers are pretty cheap these I promise the energy savings are gonna Uh, right, so even once we got dimmable they never looked right to me at low brightness without getting warmer like an incandescent bulb does, a warm-white balanced LED starts to look almost... grey when you get down below 25% brightness or so. It's nice that it's less light, but there was no way I could rewire my brain to accept that as anything but "wrong." So it was a glorious day when I first laid eyes on the saw the little picture Philips put together and realized "Holy crap they've done it. This I've gotta try!" and I bought a couple, took 'em home, and was hooked. Finally, an LED light bulb that truly looks and behaves like bringing all of the tech's advantages with virtually none of the downsides. While you weren't looking, I put a Warm Glow bulb in here. That's right. This guy. Is. Not. Incandescent. That was a really smooth reveal. That was quite some time ago. Philips has been making these for... gosh close to a decade now I think, I know for a fact I bought a bunch back in And I had a pretty good guess into how they worked - it seemed like there were probably two sets of diodes, and at full brightness they mixed together to make what looked like 2700 kelvin. Then, as the bulb dimmed, it would first lower the output of the cooler LEDs, gradually shifting the color temperature down, It could then still get a bit dimmer Lately they started producing filament style sure enough, that's exactly how this works. You can even see when the bulb isn't lit that two of the filament sticks are a bit paler than the other two. In case you weren't aware, modern white LEDs are actually not too far off from fluorescent lighting tech as the diodes emit blue light - or, as is increasingly common, by a phosphor mix sitting on top of the diodes into When that's all combined it produces a white light - at least, one Generally, LEDs with a warm color almost orange phosphor coating, and as you move up the color temperature scale the phosphors become an increasingly pale yellow. Take a look at one of these video lights, which have a matrix of warm white, cool white, and RGB diodes and it's obvious which diodes are which. So, as predicted, at full brightness all of the filament sticks are lit. And as the light is dimmed, at first only two of the filament sticks Since, as that happens, an increasingly greater proportion of the total light output is coming from the still-bright, warmer filasticks, the mixed light output appears progressively warmer. At least, to a point. Once the cooler filasticks are completely extinguished, In fact these will just barely glow if you want them to. At first I thought this idea would be a poor fit for these and it does look a little weird but given how this style of bulb isn't exactly easy to stare at anyway, And actually, once they started making these the last meaningful differences between I have been extremely pleased with these LED They've performed excellently and flicker-free on nearly although I have had some flickering on certain switches but it generally Also, they have a great light quality to them; And in all this time, if memory serves, The worst one was a bule that just died about a year after I started using it. And then there's this one. Uh, this one seems to have some sort of wiring problem because at full brightness, it can get a little flickery. And I just discovered (literally just now) that at low brightness settings, it's not doing the dimming effect correctly. All of the filmanet sticks are working together. And then the other failure, I think, was just a hilarious manufacturing boo-boo. I have a frosted glass bulb version of this bulb and it works absolutely fine but... it doesn't get warmer! It's just a wee bit cooler-looking than the package mate it came with so I think that one got made with all-cool filasticks. I'd show it to you but I can't find it. Oops. Aside from those three failed lamps, there is literally just one other problem I've ever had with these and it's, again, minor. But... weird. I have a few of these PAR20 lamps in recessed cans and all of If you start out at full brightness, they're perfect! But if you dim them down to a certain point, even though it starts out mixed correctly the bulbs will slowly just... stop outputting any light from the cool diodes and go full-warm. It took me a while to realize this was happening because and they all do it in precisely the same way - I have four of them on the same switch and they behave identically. In fact I've got another pair on a different switch from a different manufacturer and yep, same exact thing. In fact that assured me it wasn't the switch drifting a bit as I thought, it's definitely a flaw in that bulb's driver design, but since it's really only a problem around a relatively narrow dimness band, I'll give it a pass. It's just... pretty weird. Now, I said that I'm making this video In my area, and maybe this is nationwide, I dunno, the different hardware stores seem to have exclusive deals My Mostly Midwestern Mega Merchandise Mecca, Menards, They sell mainly Sylvania - and they're gonna come up later. I think Lowe's sells mainly GE bulbs from And wherever else you might find a light bulb Anyway, the important thing is that the Orange Store has been the place I needed to go to get these or really any Philips lighting products. And I made a trip to the Orange Store to get a few of these and there were none to be found. No shelf space in that entire store was devoted No matter, I have Internet. That was pretty fruitful but the pickin's are getting increasingly slim. There are nowhere near as many varieties available as there used to be, and a ton of what shows up is out of stock. Not long ago Philips was putting this tech into from your basic A19 things, to candelabra-type frosted floods and PAR lamps, and even GU10 halogen replacements! In fact, they even sold those fancy LED trim retrofits meant to go in can lights I've got some of 'em and they're great! But these days? Well, they seem to be an Even Philps' own website isn't helping things. Yeah, they still have a page for well this is useless. Lots of these are clearly not Warm Glow capable - anything daylight balanced surely isn't, and looking through the filters on the left - yep, there's nothing there specifically for this feature. So what in the heck is goin' on? It can't just be you weirdos who like daylight-balanced lighting, I mean plenty of soft white bulbs are still for sale and any remotely nice one will be dimmable. It's pretty much just Well, I don't know. But I can guess! There is of course the whole global supply chain stuff we're still dealing with but I don't think that can quite explain this. As recently as January I ran into and they both had a solid selection. Although I'll be honest I got inklings of trouble since I couldn't find a ceiling fan bulb with Warm Glow which was why I went in there in the first place. I feel as though since the Orange Store section of the light bulb aisle to these What I think is far more likely to be the case I think it was an inside job. [whispers angrily] Philips has definitely been pushing their Hue line of smart whatevers (and plenty of non-Hue smart whatevers it seems) and while they coexisted in harmony with Warm Glow for quite a few years, I'm thinking Philips is gonna make the folks like me invest in something like their "tunable white" bulbs. Actually, I can't tell if they get any warmer than 2700K, so I might even need to get one of those full color Now lest you think I'm going into well I am. A little bit. But I actually have a lot of smart lighting stuff and have for years, but I am on team "smarten the switches, not the bulbs." I have bought a grand total of two Smart Bulbs in my entirely life, one of which never got used. You can find a really old video of mine where I went into home automation stuff back in like 2017 - oh actually it was December of 2016, holy cow. And in it I talked about my Z-wave dimmer switches, Z-wave and Zigbee are two communications protocols and the really neat thing about those protocols is that none My entire smart home has one device connected to the internet, and that's the hub which actually That's the last I'll speak on the... matter, though as the smart home landscape and hopefully to something simpler and better. I just wish Z-wave and Zigbee were more Needing a hub is actually a very good thing, but nobody ever communicated that very well. Still, I'm not anti-smart bulb, for what it's worth. Installing a light switch can be intimidating which many older homes didn't run through the switch boxes. And indeed some rather new homes as I've recently discovered. But all I've ever wanted with my home automation, is to have control over brightness. And since a light switch is usually in control of at least a few light sockets, it was MUCH cheaper for me to install smart switches than it was to buy smart bulbs. Anyway, while I don't care to have I do want them to mimic incandescent and the Warm Glow bulb was an elegant - and also pretty cheap! - means to that end. The new tunable white options are interesting... but here's the thing. I never want daylight balanced lighting in my home. I know that lots of people find it useful, and I can see the value of a light bulb being daylight balanced when the For me personally, though, that just doesn't I know not everyone has enough natural light in their home to do this but, I generally don't need the lights on at all when the sun is up. And to be honest, on dismal overcast days I actually find the warmth of incandescent-balanced light to be soothing and cozy. For that reason, a bulb with daylight and I suppose if it had a super-warm set of diodes, too, and that would be neat, but once you get that complicated you And that's why I appreciate these so much. It's a cheap, simple, and elegant tweak to the dimmable LED concept, adding that subtle but very important That's all I was ever asking for, and dangit if we're gonna lose this option to smarter, connected light bulbs I'll be upset. And that's why I bought all these and stocked up. Philips, YOU ARE NOT TAKING THIS AWAY FROM ME Oh, right, Sylvania. I said they were gonna come up. For a short while, Sylvania was copying this idea. They called it "premium dimming" or something like and I never bought any to compare to Philips. There are a few new-old-stock options out there, but it doesn't look like they're still in production. Again. Boo! I'd be curious to know if people just don't understand what There are enough people that just don't care about if there's one thing that offends me more than a daylight-balanced it's mixed color temperatures in the same room (or worse, fixture) Yet there's a ton of folks out there who truly don't care about that. Maybe they can't see it. I dunno, I don't know how they can look past a fixture riddled with a They do. Are these light bulbs for everyone? No. If you don't like warm lighting, they're definitely not for you. But for those of us somewhere in they're great. Philips, if you're listening, please don't stop production of these. I hope this is just a supply chain hiccup, but I'm honestly not holding my breath. Whoever was first responsible for these, thank you so much for your efforts. I truly have never been happier with a lighting product. And, I've converted a fair share of LED skeptics by These are really so close to incandescent dimming in their behavior and appearance, and if that's your jam these are your bulbs. Anyway, that's all. These bulbs have come up in the past a few times on the channel but I've never bothered making a video specifically about them. And frankly, I wasn't planning on it. But now that it looks like they might be an endangered I suppose it's very possible that dimmer switches are just far more of a niche thing than I realized. Certainly I can think of plenty of environments without them. And, uh, now that I think about it, So maybe that's what's going on here. Smart bulbs are a nice way to add dimming, Still, Philips was putting this tech in to such that I think dimmers can't be *that* niche, can they? Oh, and I didn't even mention the really irritating thing which is that, now that I mostly have to buy these online, I'm not getting those great time-of-sale rebates It's a good thing these have proven to be so reliable overall. Oh and might I suggest, if you're looking to add you should look at these plug-in dimmers for lamps. Sure, they don't help with any permanent lighting in your home, but a few lamps here and there can Plus, lots of these have smart functions! I've been using a Z-wave enabled dimmer for this video. Usually I try to think of some sort of real ending before I c endangeredly smooth jazz They call the feature... that's the wrong box! You did this to yourself. We call this a 2700K color temperature because... (laughs) You gotta pick it up a little higher there, buddy! That's exactly how this happens. You can even see when the bulb isn't lit... why did I say "happens?" That's not what the s... that's not what it says. And in all this time, if memory serves, I've had exactly two failures. I just remembered a third one. And as I made a trip to the Orange Store to get a few for some new lamps of mine. Well... that's not the words that are there. [fart sound] Man, I forgot to move the frame for that blooper where I bonked the lampshade. That's gonna haunt me forever. OK, well not for that long. But I hope this video haunts Philips execs forever! Unless of course they keep this product line going. Then I will revoke the haunt.