Hello, and welcome back. I'm Joseph Hoffman. Today we're going to be talking about rhythm and we're also going to be dictating our first So what is beat in music? Well you've probably felt your heart beat It's easy to feel especially when you've been It might be beating fast. [Heartbeat] Well, did you know that your heart is always When you are asleep, it might be beating more [Heartbeat] Well in music, there is always a beat too. And it can be going fast sometimes and slow Now let's try clapping a beat together, and [Clapping] So what we're clapping is the beat. And you'll notice that it's steady. It's a consistent steady speed. Now, while we keep clapping, with my lips [Speaking rhythms] Good. Did you notice that our hands were clapping while my lips did some slow and some fast Keep clapping with me. Let's listen again to some rhythms. [Speaking rhythms] So remember, the beat is always steady, but can have some fast, or some slow patterns Now let's see if you can feel the beat to This first song is by Rachmaninoff. It's one And it has kind of a medium fast beat like [Clapping] So I'd like you to clap while I play. See [Playing piano] Good, could you feel that nice steady marching Great. Now let's try another one. This time, let's do a slower beat. And in music, the different speeds of the those are called tempi, or the tempo of a So this time we're going to do a slower tempo. This is a beautiful song by Bach. Keep clapping the beat while I play. [Playing piano] Alright now it's time to try dictating our Dictating means you're going to take what So we're going to write down the rhythm or the rhythm of &quot;Hot Cross Buns&quot;. Let's come on over and get started. Okay here I have a heartbeat mat and these are showing you each beat in the song that So first, let's try singing &quot;Hot Cross Buns&quot; Ready go. Hot Cross Buns. Hot Cross Buns. One a penny, two a penny, Hot Cross Buns. What did you notice as we did that together? Did you notice that the beats were always and then when we finish one row, we go down until we've made it through all the rows. Did you also notice that there were some beats didn't have a sound or a word in them? Let's see if we can find where those beats I'll sing the first line of &quot;Hot Cross Buns&quot; and see if you can find where there is a beat Hot Cross Buns. Which beat didn't have a sound in it? If you're pointing right here, you are correct. In music, when there is no sound in a beat, and it looks like this. A quarter rest kind of looks like a zigzag When you see one of these in music, it means There will be silence. So I'm going to put this quarter rest right Now, what did you hear in these three beats? Let's listen one more time. Hot Cross Buns. There was one word, or one sound in every This is a picture of what we draw when there It has a black note head at the bottom, and and it's called a quarter note. A quarter note makes a steady sound like this: TA TA TA TA. When you see one of these, it means to make Each one of these beats had a quarter note so I'll place them here. Like this. So if we were to speak this song in rhythm it would sound like this: TA TA TA rest. I whisper the word &quot;rest&quot; when we see a quarter Now, what happens in this row? We already had Hot Cross Buns rest. Hot Cross Buns rest. What rhythm should I draw in this row? If you said the same thing, you are correct. We need three quarter notes and one quarter rest. Now we're ready for this next row. In this row we have: One a penny, two a penny. This time instead of words, I'm going to just [Singing] What did you notice about those beats? Did you notice that the notes were going faster? That's right, those notes were going faster. Because they were going faster, we were able Listen one more time. [Singing] When you have two faster sounds inside one You'll notice this time there are two note and each one of these note heads makes a sound. They each have their own stem and are connected So this makes a sound like this: TI TI TI And we call them eighth notes. So this is a picture of two eighth notes. Now on this row, every single beat had a pair so I'm going to draw them like this. Good now let's try to say the rhythm of this Every pair of eighth notes we'll say TI TI. Ready go. TI TI TI TI TI TI TI TI. Great now there's just one row left. What do you think we should draw down here Hot Cross Buns. Yeah it's the rhythm we've already drawn once Actually twice before. It will look like this. Now we've dictated the whole rhythm of &quot;Hot Let's try to sing the whole song now using We'll say TA whenever you see a quarter note. We'll whisper rest whenever you see a quarter and we'll say TI TI whenever you see two eighth Here we go, let's do the whole thing together. Ready singing in rhythm words and point to Ready go. TA TA TA rest. TA TA TA rest. TI TI TI TI TI TI TI TI TA TA TA rest. Good job. Now let's play a game. I'm going to make some of the notes on the Uh oh some of the rhythms are missing now. Can you help me put them back where they belong? Let's fill in the missing rhythms. I'll sing a row, and you tell me what to put [Singing] What belongs right here? If you said a quarter note, or a TA, you are Okay let's go to the next row. [Singing] What goes in this missing beat? If you said a quarter rest, you are correct. I filled in a quarter rest there. Let's go to this next row. [Singing] What goes in this missing beat? If you said two eighth notes, or TI TI, you In this last row there are two missing beats [Singing] What goes right here? If you said a quarter note, you are correct. What about here? If you said a quarter rest, you are correct. Great job dictating your first rhythm and eighth notes and quarter rests. If you'd like to download those cutouts so along with heartbeat mats, you can download Now that you know how to speak &quot;Hot Cross the next time you practice &quot;Hot Cross Buns&quot;, as you play try singing the rhythm words this You'll say TA for the quarter notes and TI Thanks for watching, and I'll see you next What a lovely place for a rest.