KAREN LAUR: You just go over the mountains You get past Ellensburg, and it's high desert. Most of the reference came I did a drive out to the Columbia Gorge of just reference imagery of just like, and big cliffs and stuff like that. It was eight hours down, eight hours back. And I'm not even sure I spent the spent the night down there. So while it the local reference was out in the Columbia Gorge. ANNOUNCER: Good morning, and welcome This automated train is provided for Black Mesa Research facility personnel. - My name is Mike Harrington. I wasn't really used to big companies. it wasn't that big. It was like 1500 Nine years later it was significantly this place is too big. And, you So they had a long ways to go. like, I'm leaving. I'm leaving in a And the first person I talked to was But at that time, he was trying And by the time it made sense, to go work at id, so how could he say no to that? And then I was having lunch with I'm just gonna leave, and I'm He goes, I wanna leave. I wanna start a game - On the surface, we should both Mike and I thought we realize we'd made horrible mistakes, and ask for our jobs back. But we did think that we knew a that there were expertise that goes into it. I think we also had some pretty clear So when we were building Half-Life, we were - We had no plan, except Michael had gone to id, and he said, You have to use our engine. So Gabe We spent a good deal of time with John Romero, and he told us like, this is what you need to You need to go out and hire some level And we kind of understood the engineering part. we walked away with the source code to We had kind of an idea of what it And we had kind of the crown jewels DAVE RILLER: I think most of us had We were either amateurs working in some people were from the software world, I think we had three or four people shipped a game when we started Half-Life. So we have to come up with an IP. - Gabe came into the office, I read this Stephen King story called It's got monsters, people in a monsters in the fog. Use your imagination. We didn't wanna write that as a game. But it was just the tension and how it felt. - Well, it was interesting. At first on Prospero, and then Half-Life - My job was then build a team to build. That'll be the second game How is it gonna be different from - Every time the engine got a feature And then Half-Life just started getting And eventually it just, yeah. it just stole the resources from - So it had this character and it had, wanted to have some effects on it. And so I worked with them on that and came up And they were using it. They were happy with it. And then people on Half-Life are Where did, how did you do that? The disaster sequence has kind And we ended up using it for the Vortigaunts. [GUNSHOTS] [VORTIGAUNT YELLING] - There were a bunch of things that would help us tackle the problem of what video were a rapidly changing field where at the time, And a few percentage of them were, So it was a field that really valued talent. - Like I said, Gabe and I brought some people, And, Romero said you got to hire level designers. - Worked on Rise of the Triad and then went with Duke Nukem, But I was sitting in my office one day, And I pick it up, and it's this recruiter. and they flew me up here. It was a big surprise. - But then we started looking. a whole bunch of people in the And so we could start looking at those folks, - Steve and Guthrie, Steve Bond, Other than Doug. Gabe sent them an email and they're like, who is Just kids. Like barely 20, I swear. And they show up, - Clever. - Oh, fucking clever. Steve had the - The fact that those guys had been hired to I think that was the start for a lot happen because those guys were MIKE: And then Marc showed up and like, You know, beginning, middle, end and all this stuff. And he had all sorts of great ideas. And he also would - Like the person who wrote more major who decided to be an And he ended up writing more code than anybody else. Or the creature designer for most of a manager at a Waffle House. It's not like there oh, this person has a PhD in video game design. It was that combination of both finding easy to find them at that stage and then also convincing them that it - One of the things that I definitely And, you know, we needed some engineers. - For us anyway, we had licensed id's the Quake Engine. And one of the things probably Ken, were talking about was save system to kind of like join our So you'd get to the end of the level, save stuff, and have it just feel like the world's all connected. - And so we had like every once would get to a point, and you would And so he wrote that code leveraged do the transitions. And I think in Half-Life 1 we got, - I remember when we went from have all our textures fit in a certain 256 colors. JAY: The two tech investments we made and skeletal animation for all the monsters. - But at the time it was completely revolutionary. Your Quake characters were, it's like a - I wanted so much more animation, to have the freedom to put in 100, 200, And then you can do all sorts of other So it's like, oh, I can hook on a gun to a character. I can start to make changes of or reuse most of the same model. So it we can swap out whatever. - Like all the technology that went into was not available one generation before. So licensing the Quake engine, which was very grown up just goofing around with it. - I wasn't into heavily into scripting Like my old Doom levels have a I think I asked Ken, is it possible that I could like a trigger, like what I mentioned, I could make and then I would configure everything. And that is mostly what I built. It was like things like characters reacting and I'd use a push brush to throw a headcrab out CHUCK: Or if a loud sound happened-- BRETT: They would respond, yeah. CHUCK: Would cower. KEN: So Gabe's dictate was, as you walked like every three to five seconds. DOUG: Didn't have to be much. KEN: ...the universe can be quiet. But if the universe needs to play back even if it is a scripted sequence or-- DOUG: Or even just a interesting sign or something. KEN: A sign, or a sound, or some vignette or something. So I came up with this interaction where the characters would talk And then we wanted to do spectacle,and tell a character, you need to run here and then have a bunch of you 'Cause it's somebody flying through or they're doing something like that. DOUG: Yeah. And then test it and then figure That was the roughest thing about scripted jumping on a scientist or something. And it's like, but some people just sprint right at the scientist. KEN: Sometimes getting the level designers, that gives them the most fun is a very subtle art. CHUCK: The tentacle sequence is probably the one I remember the most. BRETT: You're playing it, right? That was the first time I think they melded together with play so closely. CHUCK: Because you had your trigger, and we wanted it you see the scientist flying through you could look in, and you could see The tentacle itself is separate. It's on its own. And you bring the two together, BRETT: It felt so seamless though. And that And that might've been the first one is when you start to blend a little bit more than just ambience. - For god's sake, open the silo door. It's our only way out. Oh my God, we're doomed. DAVE: I remember Brett in particular had would walk from one area to another and it gave them a little bit of life. A ton of the work that went into that the beginning in the game, and we really fun place to be and explore. - So originally they were designed They were just designed to be spectacle. - Yeah. Little vignettes. - And then all of the level designer's like, And I'm like, oh God, how am I supposed - Get away from there, Freeman. -The run speed for the player was so insane. KEN: Yeah. DOUG: It was like, what, 25 miles an hour or something? KEN: It was sprinting. It was. DOUG: You could get so far, so fast. And so you'd either have to make the you could barely see what's happening. Most people weren't looking in the you'd have to like get their attention lighting or something. And then you But when we playtested, and it's like a scientist like people wouldn't just stop and be oh wow, look at that. They'd just like, just run straight - It's hard when you think back to interactive moments were so new. KEN: It was worth it because no No other games had that interactivity. No other games had that spectacle And it just added that whole feel of Half-Life. Gabe had started to develop and the environment needed to let you do what you wanted and then react to it. So if there needed to be a bullet hole in the you know, other characters needed to react. The world is acknowledging you exist. The world And that's a huge part of reinforcement. [SIREN] [GUNSHOT] - And you'd have these conversations where somebody'd say, that's not realistic. And like, explain to me why that's I have to write up lists of stuff I have And I have never thought to I go play games to have fun. And so of what fun was. We knew it and it was the degrees to responded to the players' choices and actions, we were explicitly talking about reinforcement schedules were. that was a useful way of making design decisions. [METAL CREAKING] The point I would make is, if I go up to a wall and I'm getting a narcissistic injury when Like to me, I was trying to convey yes, you were making choices. which meant the game had to acknowledge there have to be decals. If you kill a bunch of You have to have this sense of the game choices and actions and progressions that you've HARRY: Ted and I, we were on the same page in which would be just sort of alien Like these are, these are another planet that look like they evolved in a way. He'd made a bunch of monsters that went And for awhile the game had a hard time - All the ones that looked like genitals were Ted's. [LAUGHING] And all the ones with shiny bits that - That was a thing when I first BRETT: And trying to figure that out. CHUCK: Trying to find the harmony between the two to make it work. BRETT: Yeah. CHUCK: Ted had, he was, he really liked and I had a little bit different, but it worked. Ted made these really weird. that's pretty much the symbol of it all. And I remember taking his headcrab and zombie. Right. Well, we pretty much we'll do, you do that? And Ted did I did a lot of the aliens. And with the hornet gun I did. did the You know the alien slave? Well I did some animations for the I have to call him that. The houndeye was Ted's as well. BRETT: Yeah. A lot of the fleshy, if it's got CHUCK: Yeah. - That's Ted, that's a Ted-ism. You can always tell Ted's designs, aquarium than... Aquarium and/or, - Oh, Big Mama. I forgot about Big Mama. Oh God. - It's like, you know, it's a testicle, right, Ted? - That's just so disturbed. - I concepted a guy in sort of a NASA spacesuit, a scientist guy. He was actually modeled big beefy, bearded Linux And so that's where the HEV There was a lot of desire for not having And then Chuck Jones went off and of him that became known as Ivan the space biker. - Oh God. I remember telling myself, it's make sure it's good. 'Cause you don't - We didn't know that. - And Ivan is the prime example of that one. So you're looking at it. Well, go I'm looking at that, and he's got this hearing don't put too many polys in it. the, the square head. And it was kind of an early, just a rough prototype of a we didn't know what Gordon looked like. So it's like, I was looking for somebody, and I what does Gordon look like? He said, It's like, oh, okay, okay. and put kind of my likeness on the And it kind of stayed there. BRETT: Did you have a ponytail? - Well, I was ex tattoo artist, so yeah, I definitely had. - Ah. - I don't, I don't have anything to work with now. - If you play the game, you know that it's Chuck, CHUCK: But yeah, if you look on the and he's got a little ponytail back there. I did the G-Man. And again, that one was, Gabe So we needed our own equivalent of that. - Because after a while, after playing for a long time people realize like, hey, we made this character. And just in where he is behind the window and he and then he's like, he looks really creepy. well he's gonna be the big bad behind all of this. Like scatter him around in But he's there mysteriously. - There wasn't enough in the we need another monster. Headcrabs weren't enough. It got kind of repetitious. I think I grabbed And so he whipped it out in not much time at all. I'm gonna get the timing just right, I'm just gonna bang it out. And then oh, let's go back and sprinkle them back in the maps. And that was this-- - Yeah. Because then we introduced them - Yeah. Because they, they ended up They weren't supposed to be tough. DOUG: But they were ranged. KEN: But they were ranged, and they were fun, that was showing off a bunch of stuff. DOUG: I remember the assassin came in pretty late. KEN: That was it. It was like, okay, It was already done. It was already And the requirement was it couldn't anything, so had to come up. I and banged that thing out. but it had all the right spacing and all the - Again, it's just a presentation where This enemy gets to shine and is And it's kind of a memorable experience 'cause it's, it just takes place in a different You get knocked out, and there's all and you get dragged through corridor and things. - And if they find the body? - Body? What body? TED: We just did a lot of playtesting and used all of the monsters. and used everything that we had developed, of stuck out a little oddly. Like we had the houndeyes that Ted had concepted, And so they seemed like a very oddly And Chuck did what we called the panthereye, creature that also just had a big fin coming out the back. And this is a very useful creature. You you know, you like to have a gradient escalation in threat. And so if we this like panther, bigger, scarier looking It was in the game for a long time and because folks couldn't find a way to environment and make it seem reasonable. CHUCK: The stooka bat was, it was something that I had We had the chub toad that we were gonna And yeah, they had a mechanic to where they you could possibly get by. And it pretty much But then again, time became the factor, - I grew up just outside DC |and so there's all these like, big, really banal office buildings, So it started becoming a facility. And so I started making these kind of the concrete block wall, - She was like the texture artist for a It's just an overwhelming amount of work. KAREN: Originally I was hand painting all of the of 'em where they go from hand The photo references are much, much better. So I was all over Seattle, getting rusty metal things. What can I get good pictures and interesting to look at, And so, you know, sides of boxcars, and I the side of a train car kind of thing. Lot of time in the Kirkland Costco I don't know why I needed snacks or something. DOUG: The first year was all about opportunity, We were trying, we were finding our footing. KEN: We were getting into the three months And it's like, this isn't gelling. This is really cash grab, stupid, and let's not do that. There was a lot of disconnect between what engineering was doing, and what level design We had a bunch of monsters that had no else was assigned to work on them. And what's supposed to go in here? Oh, I don't know, everybody's gonna do a bunch of stuff. - So here we were, all these people everything's just this random collection of oh, And you know, and then it's gone and Because the way we were building the his own silo, his own universe. And I think that just But it wasn't cohesive, and it certainly didn't have - You must have been in the meeting It was like the first time And Gabe had his crazy Hellraiser and we played. For two days, But I remember one moment he turned He's going, we're gonna fail. We're gonna fail, we're gonna fail. it blew me away. I was like, oh shit, this isn't good. - You know, we were doing our best trying And we had a schedule from Sierra, and it was we're not gonna ship this. And we realize that you're not gonna but we're going to do it anyway. - Late is just for a little while. Suck is forever. but that's not the company we want to be. That's not the relationship we want to have with our customers. - And so we kind of, Kelly and I kind of sat down and, and sort of tried to take an inventory why weren't we just, you know, And those discussions kind of led to design cabal process to try to give changing the way we were approaching it. - And so a cabal was a small group of people, a multidisciplinary group. You know, level designers, engineers, and small team that would write up a spec for a level. So we knew how that fit into the story. - And we got a small group of people together and we started with the beginning. what map do we need to build to tell and then what does that connect to, - The strongest and most influential the sketches. And they were really MIKE: We came up with a formula for how that worked. We had a certain percentage of the percentage of the time where you're where you're solving puzzles. And so we could apply that uniformly through the game. And that worked pretty well. - Testing, testing, everything seems to be in order. - Good morning. And welcome to This automated train is provided for the Mesa research facility personnel. The whole opening of the game was first person shooters were, whether Like sometimes like they would just you're standing in a room with a gun and So we could look at examples of all that, that's what Half-Life had to do - I can't tell you the number of people who and then accidentally bumped their - Yeah. - And as simple as that sounds, it 'cause it was too much going on. This - That was sort of the way we, you know, stumbled through a lot of the well what can we do? You could but nobody's doing this in first person shooters. - You're this anonymous scientist, and rolled the credits at the beginning. almost like, I don't think games It's so funny to look at it But at the time it felt like you - Pre-disaster survived from the first year. So a lot of that geometry was from but in a very minimal way. Just some, the basic style of some of the hallways, the curved They more became sort of like Lego pieces that John And I know Brett did a lot of the raw John did most of the work to ship it. And then the post and the train - The sector C. So those were heavily with my favorite green hammerite, we started with the kind of the And then there was just lots of And I did the color stripes to - One of the things that was actually a lot of it really was. You know, You'd press the button, and would go splat. - My god, what are you doing? - Yeah. All this work so you can start a which was a reference to real regularly. Like we regularly - That was later mostly, wasn't it? - There were a few people who were just at one point we had a company fire. - All of that stuff had a real kind of eloquence that in the late nineties, in a world where But we still got to go on flights of fancy. - Welcome to the HEV. - I think like a super pivotal moment for me and we saw the test chamber sequence that Kelly and John Guthrie, and Wedge was they were all in this corner dark office But so Kelly and John stayed up all night And it's pretty much like the one we shipped. - That was a lot of what went on in that It was just improvisation, you know, How do we connect what's happening before to be somehow important, but - John and I talked about it. I went home that night, and I sort of sketched out like, you know, maybe we could do something we'll turn the lights off, we'll do sounds, We built that basically that day. That's how fast we were moving. - They had audio, right? We had the script. - Yeah. Yeah. It's like the heartbeat and the And I played through it and it was like, damn, I have experienced something like this where this happening like this. And at that point it's And it's this kind of immersive, unbroken And then that was this key principle - Personally, the difference between before the I felt we really had, I had an understanding that possible it was gonna be tied together. Whereas before that there was a lot of But we, man, well you guys managed to tie two very And I thought, okay, now I feel like we're on a track it it shifted my brain to have a lot of together rather than just generating independently of other content. - One of the ways we were funding our Half-Life to a video card company. And so they had in their contract that date. And we got like the first it was really a good milestone for us 'Cause hey, there was a deliverable. we shipped off to them, and then I swear livid at first, which was stupid. I can't believe you guys let this get out. And then it turned into something amazing was all over. And we started seeing it online, what people are thinking about usually we don't review beta software, this is awesome. And that gave us a It was an outside validation of that it was the right thing. DOUG: I think just with first person they were kinda like the vowels of, You gotta have a shotgun, you need your, your weapon that's drive you to get another weapon. KEN: That was a lesson in how to make all of So each one did something completely different. So I did like the rocket launcher, - I like snarks. Snarks always made me laugh. It was just always funny to watch - The squeak grenade. Yeah, it's called a little creature that you could bring and it would just start running. 'Cause people were camping, and everybody So you wanted the anti-camp you could literally find a little hidey throw out 30 of 'em. And they're all you'd sit there, you'd do You'd do your finger towards him, and So that was the inspiration for And then the other, that big, we needed some kind of alien weapon. animated that one, but that was also another you could get in a corner and just shoot them I think that was the biggest thrill is making them, building them, putting them And then they're fun. - So there's sort of a trope of having a melee weapon. I think it was Steve Bond and Ken Birdwell where the world was reacting to. It was But we were just running around It's an odd thing to know in retrospect, but at the time it felt profoundly And that was just an example of of what fun was ended up translating into When you're going around whacking a wall, a crowbar [WOOD BREAKING] [CREATURE NOISE] [GUNSHOTS] [FOOTSTEPS] [GUNSHOTS] [MACHINE WHIRRING] - If the sound could let you know what's going So we're always on the lookout for communicating because the AI is So we use the sound to broadcast You know, soldiers, they tell you, I'm taking cover. You know, they are what's about to happen. So it was really important to try to play the game, you're actually, whether you're aware of it or [WOOSH] - We knew he was a musician too, he also decided he was gonna write soundtrack, and he'd never written a you know, soundtrack for the game. - There just weren't that many of us. I had a little bit of a background playing music. So it was really easy for me to just about the level design side that I could The sounds could come from anywhere, Usually those are animal sounds, chopping them up and rearranging them. Yeah, that's a rat slowed way, - Yeah. The DSP stuff was another cool thing a vent, it sounded like you were in a vent. And at least in Quake and other - You know, we had these huge The day they had their own echoey DSP, You believed the space. - Kelly tells me, oh god, Chuck if the characters could speak And Kelly said, you know, that's super easy. I could just look at the audio and and do that, but like getting their mouths And I, look, Chuck Jones told making the mouths move was super trivially easy, and knowing how to follow the envelope And Kelly and I just both looked And so I went back to my office, and within an hour the characters were And it was only because we sat there at lunch bitching about an - Why are you leaving me here? Scientist conversations, Kelly and I one scientist will occasionally play a question, And it's not a script. It just might be, - I am rather looking forward to this - I don't think so. But it had a bunch of personality. It was really cool. And it worked on getting those guys - When we first added the ability for other things in the environment, The first time that went in and one of 'em looks at you and goes, oh, hello Gordon. And then they explode into pile of - Hello. The automatic diagnostic and the Black Mesa research facility. - I hadn't really started part of the game, which Prior to then a lot of the work that which And all of that was ditched. Though some everything was rebuilt from zero. But you know what did make it Basically that geometry It was so closely designed for that that because the creature survived, There's this sort of central circular You have to kill the Gargantua first, 'cause he was you have to go to like another area for Quake because pretty much it was. There was a flooded pump room, and you could switch the power on and then Yeah, I remember him being totally central And then, well, how do we block the player? Which is, I mean that's pretty much like design Okay, well how do we prevent the player from exit, and you design backwards from there. - In the first year we built a lot of world And the programmers would try What we did the second year was we built the AI in very constrained environments that showcased the AI. Let's make the ideal space for the AI to incorporate those so that it worked better And that Gargantua was an example of that. - Yeah, we had the AI that Steve had been working encounters with them just in his test map. And so basically we just gotta Say, okay, let's, let's start with the player comes in low, And then the next one they're up high, and then he'd come running down. 'Cause it was really neat to see them retreat. They'd try to run back up the stairs - So Steve Bond, like I mentioned earlier, Really the designer for so much of the AI, about the soldiers, the grunts you fight - Yeah. We had a little bit of a language you know, this is a place they can This is a good place to hide. These are good places to go in general the AI had a little bit of help. - We were trying to build something the train technology that Jay was let's give the players something that We couldn't do vehicles like you the most constrained vehicle Players didn't And so you had a bunch of these poor - Oh, is that why you electrified the rail? - Kept dying from that. - Part of the feedback was, well you can just It's like, well maybe that'll teach But the basic idea was, let's explore that and then also reveal some base. You know, the abandoned areas where you might You know, we had designed some of the, some of the ones that didn't make bats that would dive bomb you and - Stooka bats. And then we also tried hard to So we tried to give little branches, and - Well there is a, there was a really which basically charted surface Like it went through the cliff areas where tanks were and like It even went through the desert the helicopters and then across a dam. When I saw that sketch, I was so motivated. - Yeah. - So I ran ahead with a lot of and it seems like a lot of it which is really amazing. I did the, I just did that in a day, right? Like, I did a Hoover Dam thing 'cause I like the Hoover Dam. - I saw a concept of the cliff side. I think Harry Teasley built that and I just thought, holy crap, Whatever we do here, we have to play on vertigo, and like places you would like to normally - And that's, that's the moment. That's really the big part of that level kinda supports it afterward. The helicopter which is awesome. First of all I had a bunch of textures, whoever was working on the new levels I'm gonna use those. Somebody making And I was like, no, this is chaos. So I started naming the texture sets I was trying to enforce some sort And so that really ended up working. - There was one level I did, it was the introduction of the the alien bounce pads in the, in story wise, like, okay, you're getting So I was, well, let's get a little bit of alien So I had done it just as a visual thing. And that's actually where he 'Cause I didn't put my daughter in Gordon's locker. I hid her in like this destroyed office someplace, and John went and put my , which I think was a good decision. - I still get questions about stuff that from people who've now thought about this there's 25 years worth of development when you start talking about lore, That was just a matter of we needed a - In that entrance when you get off the a big map on it. And when we were making I put a dot in New Mexico and then that He was like, oh, where is that? This is where we are. - That is a favorite thing of mine actually. If you come up with a name for then you don't have to write the whole story. 'Cause it's a conspiracy plot. So you don't have to do, you don't You just keep raising questions - Like dialogue came in later. Also, a lot of the scripted sequences came sharpen the storytelling aspect of it. setting expectations to get up to they're not here to help us. - The whole thing about diegetic writing, right? Like keeping the exposition in the game give a lot of credit to Marc. - After playtests, we'd realize that maybe you need - That's when we started to have, do like corner and go, go that way. There's a few of those that well we get one more session with Hal. He can say, - Well, so much for the government. Their idea of containment is to kill Judging from your hazard suit, I'd - I knew Hal from San Francisco He was also an animator and an actor So when we got down to the wire, we did a And I just kept thinking of Hal, and I I want you to at least talk to people And I got him on a speaker phone, and I And I'm like, okay, Hal, everybody's what would you like me to say? And This is the guy. - Why do we all have to wear these ridiculous ties? - Another interesting voice thing was the G-Man. So we liked Mike Shapiro's work, so but we brought him in to do So we did a take on all the G-Man And it was thinking that, but we're not super excited about And he does does this crazy lizard voice. - The border world Xen is in our Thanks to you. Quite a nasty piece I am impressed. - And we took it back and everybody And so that's how it worked out. - Did you do the Nihilanth? - I did. Ladies and gentlemen, the Nihilanth. I went into Gabe's office and I demanded Gabe to - [LAUGHING] - Yeah. I was like, argh. - Until Bill got there, I was the oldest guy there. whereas the kids who had just, the young wherever, they did not have to go see my kids when they were in bed. I would come back down the hill to Valve. to get their kids off to school - You're wired to just take full you put everything into it. So that's no exaggeration. - Yeah. - Not at, not at all. I can edit all day. I can make, I can design all day. You know, two guys from Microsoft with a bunch of incredibly capable, You're gonna, you're gonna push - I don't usually crunch real hard. I get it done in like, I come in, I work, I go home. And a lot really long hours, you know, and then goof around for a while and then I was employee 17. there was a, a woman that was the kind Mona Lisa Guthrie came in as the, at the desk. I was the only woman on the team. [SIGH] That was not awesome. - I decided to become a baseball fan daughter. So she's the one in she's very special needs. She's 25 today. You know, So after her birth in the middle it was really hard. It was really hard. 'Cause we were getting about 'Cause she had to be fed through a tube just a difficult time relating I had a hard time just talking to people. 'Cause I was just kind of tired and she worked at Valve for a while. Like I said, she did those soda machines. She did just a bunch of level textures. the sort of boss creature. She textured him. when Isabel arrived, she So, yeah, had to stop working And it was the last year of Half-Life, So, I was at work a lot. It was, it was hard. - Games have often had this thing where Blade Runner, Alien. So it wasn't that let's think of something really alien. Like what Xen was initially was you're kill it or figure out how to turn it I didn't know you, we couldn't - What does it mean to have alien architecture defining the structures in it as which is making rectangles. - And then slowly it scaled back till and that everybody was really good at. - People were finishing up stuff, and I was still it went through a lot of iteration or at least, Different people were taking - Weren't you in a bit of a - Yeah. It was the end of the game. - Yeah. - I wanted to cut stuff out and they're but I don't have any, I don't, there's nothing, - Right. - And then after a lot of it was we're gonna change the gravity That came later And I was like, ah. - There's a lot of stuff, that you're getting close to a first 'Cause we just didn't have time and And so we considered not going to Xen, - For the Xen textures, I was deeply inspired and we'd had so much of that regular I wanted to do something more I think there's a lot of textures that was really fun, and incredibly that editor was not friendly for organic shapes. I built the little behaviors for the tree that the light stalk that kind of hides. The floating controller guys. - The flying guys were great, but you had to set up air nodes for them And some of those prototypes were And also for the Gonarch, which I think Randy did. - We at some point have to stop polishing. it is what it is. And if the player well then we failed. They're not It just has to finish, and it did. - And there's always Half-Life 2 to win 'em back. - I love that sensation of being But the experience that people really up, and Barney pops up, and you have companionship around you with all So a lot of people missed that, which I understood. And I think if we had thought we would've figured out some - I remember coming back from downtown Cabo beach, but didn't know there was So I just went right over, I slept the night where I fell. - I had never heard that story. - With like a really stiff neck. Oh my God. It's a good thing you were pretty young. - I remember after we'd gone final on the game, I was home one morning taking It's done. Is it any good? Is the game any fun? I go, I don't know. Like, I hope so. - I don't think it's exaggerating disappeared for a month, we wouldn't have shipped. It didn't matter who they were. You know, - My inspiration from Valve, what I really that is most important to me is what are you don't have a lot of expectation And I was able to have quite a - It was so fun to work with the The collection of people were diverse, at least like in their professional backgrounds, And so figuring out how to But also just the fact that we had hired at collaborating, like the conscientious people, deeply passionate about what That just was a recipe for a - It seems to me that one of the things that good games do is make two games worth of stuff And fortunately Valve was able to do that, A lot of companies couldn't do that. Valve could afford to do that. - I always have absolutely nothing would you reflect on your legacy? Like, I'm always excited by the future, I can look back at the things that we did, but to me they're just sort of like the be able to do in the future. That's [ELECTRONIC MUSIC PLAYING] [GUNSHOTS] Oh no.