People are made of cells, cells are made atoms are made of electrons and proton and neutrons, and those last two are made up of three quarks. Simple stuff, right? actually made of many, many quarks that just happen to look like three quarks when you look at them in a particular way. And even then, sometimes they're The humble proton may seem simple enough, visible matter in the universe comes from or bound with neutrons into the nuclei table. You'd think by now we'd have a pretty But actually, their interiors remain a profound confirmed out that protons were not themselves quarks. Now, thanks to AI we have evidence that at least sometime. Two of them heavier than the proton itself. To make sense of this we need smallest scales of nature. And that means Every time you open your eyes you're performing source like the Sun bounce - or scatter - your particle detectors--aka your eyes. Your up a colour map of the world around you Well, it's also possible to we do a different type of scattering experiment. In general, the higher the energy smaller the object you can see. To see subatomic but instead to use particles of matter. That's nucleus. He shot a beam of alpha particles a thin gold foil. He found that, while a small fraction scattered off something very small and very dense. That's how he figured out that the atom is mostly empty space, with most of its Since Rutherford's 1911 experiment we've we now have electron microscopes which how they're deflected. Sophisticated software just as our brain reconstructs Electron scattering can be used to study electron. That sounds pretty useful, because Actually not so fast--electrons are quantum shorter the more energy the electron has. be used to study anything that's larger than the So if you want to study the interior of a Below a certain energy, the electron will just energy the electron will punch into a proton and I should add that such an electron is energetic but it's actually okay - sometimes you need And that's what physicists at the Stanford Linear 50s and 60s. They accelerated electrons to higher energies than had previously been achieved and slammed them into protons, then watched what came results. From those scattering products and the deduced that protons must be made of three the properties of the so-called quarks--theoretical and George Zweig earlier that decade. And that's familiar with--two up and one down quark, with by gluons carrying the strong nuclear force, And same for the neutron except it's two down and one up. I'll be talking about protons from now on, but everything I say probably applies to neutrons too. While the SLAC electron beam was we quickly figured out how to make more and we started to see something strange. scattering allows us to see smaller as we powered up our accelerators that's exactly and it turned out to be much more complicated The interior of the proton was revealed to be of gluons that are constantly transforming which quickly annihilate each other, turning and this constantly shifting, flickering But because the quantum properties of there is order within the chaos. If you took all you could list all the quarks and all the other out except for two up quarks and one down exchange energy and colour charge via the quark particle or antiparticle, but are instantly These valence quarks are what the first SLAC electron beam's energy, those electrons started quark sea. They scattered off gluons and virtual The higher the energy of the electrons, the up and down quarks of the quark sea, the gluon around 1% of the time there was evidence of odd. The charm quark weighs more than It's like opening a 1 kg box of I dunno, Fortunately there's a perfectly plausible out that the particles we discover after smashing inside the proton to start with. That's because brand new particles. Remember, E=mc^2, which into each other. As the ingoing electron transfers new particle-antiparticle pairs can be created As the energy of the electron beam increases, structure. But this signal is increasingly muddied We call the particles that are inside the proton include the valence quarks and the virtual quarks we call particles created in the collision itself we see both intrinsic and extrinsic particles, in cases where the outgoing particle is too apart. So if the ingoing electron has enough that are detected in some cases. If the charm But even early on, there was some evidence of the presence of charm quarks even in cases to produce one. So if the charm quark is too and is too massive to be a regular part Well it's not quite as simple a conundrum as I the collision, the probability of finding but only reaches zero at zero energy, which charm quarks were appearing only slightly more often at low energies than expected from calculations. and so the evidence for intrinsic charm quarks was weak. Let's talk about how those calculations and how they're done to see why this uncertainty exists. The interior of the proton is the realm of by quantum chromodynamics. With its multiple carriers, QCD is far more complicated than say the single-charged electrodynamics. One weird thing about "QCD" is that the calculations are easier at to implement a favorite hack of quantum mechanics easier to calculate the result of a high-energy to properly calculate the state of the interior For this reason it's kinda straight foward to explain all the extrinsic quarks that we see at high energies, but it is very difficult to explain the behavior of the it's even harder to explain why we seem to find Although it's hard to model the interior of the us that it shouldn't contain things more massive But there is actually a way to get quantum We do that by taking advantage of the Heisenberg tells us that we can borrow energy from out of as long as those particles The more massive the particles, the For this reason, it should be possible even inside a proton, as long as it Due to the large mass of the charm quark pair, for the proton's inner structure than is the quarks. In that instance of their appearance, the proton looks more like a 5-quark particle than a 3-quark particle. However I wouldn't go so far as to say that proton's measured mass comes from the average of So if the charm quarks only exist then they contribute only a fraction of I just gave a crude outline of the theory Stanley Brodsky in 1980 to explain the weak evidence of charm quarks in protons. But proving this was challenging due to the difficulty of One issue is that there are typically many that can lead to the prediction of the same with a model that includes intrinsic charm particle output over many collisions. But you you analyzed even more collisions you'd realize Without testing all possible models, it's charm was really better at predicting the outcome that doesn't include intrinsic charm. So there's so much uncertainty about the --it just wasn't possible to sift through that intrinsic charm was needed to That is, until Artificial Intelligence scientists in the NNPDF collaboration to do Instead of testing one model, they could test They trained a neural network to analyze not constrained by a single model, but in the then able to create new models that approach This was incredible. Instead of a few scientists they could have this machine test thousands and while a scientists may be biased to trying to the network just wants to find the best And now we get to the punchline. This with intrinsic charm that predicts the Now currently this is still tentative. The team reports a 3-sigma result which means a 1 in 1000 chance they found the wrong model in favor of intrinsic charm just by random chance. Of course the gold standard for claiming a victory is 5-sigma, which means a 1 in a million chance the result came from an unlucky streak. That sounds like a high standard, but happening around the world, we do get a lot So will this one pan out in the end? Will melon in the apple box? Well we'll need to blast a lot more protons to find out, but we may also get closer to our answer by improving this shiny developing at a rapid pace, as it's increasingly Computers can come up with and test models physicists can get on with the more interesting Wherever we land on the question there's something charming about and natural intelligences working towards the common goal of deciphering the inner workings of space time Hey everyone, comment responses will return next week. But if you really want to watch me try to answer difficult questions with mixed success, head over to StarTalk, where my long time colleague Dr. Neil Tyson tries to stump me with some real doozies. Link in the description. And feel free to tell them we sent you.