It's Professor Dave, and I wanna show you the world. Throughout this astronomy series, we've could hope to see in the night sky, as well So how does all of this fit in with the understanding For one thing, just the way that an understanding to refute things like alternative medicine, gained will make it easy to refute similarly the present fad that is the flat-earth model. There exists a community of folks who believe has learned over the past few centuries, the and is also the center of the universe. A knee-jerk reaction to this is often one than go that route, let's consider this Whether the earth is flat or round, we should astronomical phenomena make sense in one model Let's go through some of these phenomena First, let's just look at the celestial sphere. We look up and we see stars and planets going around. The flat earth model says we stay still while model says we rotate, which is what causes At face value, with no further investigation, Either of them could feasibly explain what Now let's dig a little deeper. What are some details we notice about the We experience night and day, alternating periods We see the ecliptic. This is the part of the sky that traces the as the paths of all the planets. The path of the sun follows a slowly tilting This length of time also outlines other cycles These seasons go a particular way in the northern hemisphere. There exists a phenomenon called the Coriolis rotate in one direction in the northern hemisphere Each hemisphere also sees an entirely different These are just a handful of the observations Here is where the round earth becomes obvious. All we have to do is understand that the earth tilted somewhat from the vertical, and going This singular assumption makes all of the As earth rotates, it's daytime when facing the sun. The apparent motion of all these celestial therefore be predicted. The seasons occur because of the amount of other at any given time in earth's orbit. One year is also no longer an arbitrary amount the earth around the sun, and the differing by the tilt in the rotational axis. The Coriolis effect is just the result of like the earth. The hemispheres have different skies because Everything we see makes perfect sense with That's what science is all about. In the flat earth model, all of these observations What is night and day? If you try to place a luminous object like how does light reach half the plane and not Say you come up with a mechanism whereby light How does this then fit with other observations? What are the seasons? If you try to explain them by pulling the can it be winter in the north and summer in the south? What is the Coriolis effect? If earth is a plane, what magically alters plane compared to the other? Shouldn't we also all be seeing the same the same direction? Flat earth subscribers do actually attempt the fact that the explanations are never mathematically phenomenon requires its own independent explanation If we invent a luminous sun-like object, and sky, this is just the epicycles from the geocentric It's assumption upon assumption, adjustment ad hoc, based in nothing but an attempt to This is very poor science. When we say the earth is round and put the only are all of these phenomena easy to explain, In 2017, a total solar eclipse occurred over Using a modern understanding of astronomy, like eclipses, the return of Halley's comet, This is done very simply, with the sun at elliptical orbits, which involves basic algebra Only in this model is the math so easy. So when we operate under this framework and at this time, on this day, in this place, extreme precision, there can be no clearer Game, set, match. The flat earth model can never make such predictions, has no logical basis, but also as there is It's a bunch of separate phenomena with even exist. It doesn't end there. The flat earth model has a huge laundry list have mentioned so far. Everything we see in space is a sphere. Why is earth the only thing that isn't? Things fall to the earth because of gravity, of mass. If earth is not a sphere, why do things fall What is gravity? The implications run so much deeper than just Ad hoc solutions are offered, like the idea which an acceleration of 9.8 meters per second the ground. But this doesn't help, it actually makes What is up? What is causing the acceleration? If it is constantly accelerating, we should What is meant to be a simple explanation actually Then there is the matter of the geometrical implications. How do we slice up the globe to make it flat? What places are far away that we thought were close? How is it possible to fly or sail around the Where is the edge of the earth? Why hasn't anyone seen it? What about all the pictures we have of the Again, ad hoc solutions are required for all It is proposed that a huge ice wall surrounds No one can go there, because NASA is guarding it. How? Where is the personnel? Where is the budget for such an operation? NASA also fabricates all of the photos we see. Why? What is the motivation? And how? We have had photos of the earth from space software by several decades. The logical hole gets deeper and deeper. Because it is impossible to form a consistent must turn to conspiracy. Now to be clear, I am a firm believer that and we should always be ready to challenge of a conspiracy theory depends largely on The notion that all the governments and all and flight attendants and communication technology in on it... it starts to get pretty absurd. The manufacturing of a holographic sphere by unknown entities oppressing mankind into left with for the flat-earth model, and perhaps sense. It is the desire to live in a science fiction against evil forces that may be the best explanation insist on this model. So that's all there is to it. We do not say the earth is round because we've repeating scientific dogma. We say it is round because it is the simplest The earth is round because the round earth we can make. No ad hoc reasoning, just a bunch of puzzle view of the universe and everything in it. This is the same reason that the heliocentric and Kepler came around. It just works better. The orbits of the planets don't have to If the sun is at the center of the solar system, Kepler's laws predict the positions of planets any previous model. When the world is round, everything fits. In contrast, the flat earth model has to come and every observation in a different way. All of these problems simply vanish with a The earth is round, and what we see makes perfect sense. The precise position of every celestial object into the future. We can say that an eclipse will happen at particular place, and that's exactly what we see. This is the essence of good science. A model or theory that correlates mountains for observations, and makes falsifiable predictions If a model can't do that, it's not scientific, up to scrutiny, so it must be discarded, as a few thousand years ago. Now that we've caught back up to what we what else we can say about the public's