1991. Mexico City. Entrepreneur Luis Javier The name? Amazing Toys. Not Juguetes Increibles. toys are imported from the United States. Sea And it was, until December 1994, when the Mexican and the international novelty toy trade went and Laresgoiti was forced to dream a perhaps toy manufacturing. Laresgoiti had his office equipment. He bought them toy phones, thing. Maybe he could manufacture better toys. Or approached his childhood best friend, Xavier Lopez Ancona had met in the second grade, and both had wanted to open his own fair, and Lopez Ancona success in more traditional business ventures. as the Director of Venture Capital at General foray them both into the world of entertainment. on role-playing. He later explained, "What for us is a fantasy; I remember that I loved being taken I couldn't reach the counters." Laresgoiti's pitch theming and complex operations. The concept The ability to take on mature responsibilities, adult professions, but on a scale accessible to Laresgoiti's idea for a children's city was uncertainty. At this point in the late 1990s, audiences were a common sight in malls and enjoyed a steady stream of local families, same time, many regional entertainment and by the turn of the millennium, the fun with many large corporations with established space. Laresgoiti and Lopez Ancona were also struggling to recover from the economic crisis this uncertainty was juxtaposed against his Laresgoiti's concept of a children's role-playing and he eventually convinced his friend to enter and the two began planning their children's city. square meters, or around 5000 square feet. This out jobs in miniature recreations of common city The list of role-playing activities grew as the realized that they needed a much larger space-six The two decided that Mexico City's Centro Santa would be the ideal site for their concept. or 20,000 square feet. This venue would allow them and opportunities for children to role-play. As so did the budget. Laresgoiti and Lopez Ancona project, and they eventually had to approach brother Esteban. Still, this was not enough. the team brainstormed a new way to raise the miniature city's businesses and public services small role-playing buildings within the city would However, the team recognized this as an area companies to sponsor their equivalent businesses Ancona began knocking on doors, hoping that and be generous enough to support them. In the children's city, including Coca-Cola, General Motors, Domino's Pizza, Johnson and to the unproven concept. Of the 7 million 55% came from these corporate partnerships. in the summer of 1999, and on August 19, named La Ciudad De Los Ninos, or the City To enter the new attraction, families visiting storefront that resembled an airport terminal guests paid their travel fare to gain entry per child and 60 pesos per adult, or around $9.50 children were given a bank check for 300 pesitos, of Children. Families walked through security, the form of a wristband. This piece of technology complex while parents could relax with the peace premises without them and could be easily found perform after entering the City of Children gate. To do this, children needed to visit the that they could use throughout their visit. From with two main categories of activity: spending activities such as General Motors bumper They could even drive their General Motors assuming they had enough Pemex gas to get to take a simulated trip on an American Airlines To earn pesitos, kids needed to pick up a job. employment opportunities. Some of these, such amusement attractions with set dressing to make unique themed experiences devised just for La down a fire pole or slid down a slide when an climbed onto an operating firetruck, and were it was up to the kids to put out the fake flames brick walls while a large concrete truck spun its anything from a doctor to a manicurist, a reporter engaging, and impressively themed. Each was designed for children between the ages multiple jobs during their visit, and it was day. While children worked on the first floor, over the activity of the bustling city was an area filled with playplaces and La Ciudad De Los Ninos was an ambitious and The attraction was an immediate success, with the guests. In the first year, around 750,000 people and Lopez Ancona's wildest expectations. certain days into two separate 5 hour blocks La Ciudad De Los Ninos concept gave it a distinct centers. Since the premise of the city was to many of the activities were educational in could act as a field trip destination for typical fun center crowd of families and birthday in the game design, as children could earn money day with money already in the bank that they attendance and positive reception kick-started the City of Children had bold plans for their amusement park operator Grupo Magico to expand bred a new company, Kids City International, which The first locations considered were Sao Paulo, start by building a new location in Monterrey, However, it was at this point that Laresgouiti and of the company. Laresgoiti appeared to side with Ancona and his brother wanted to go in a different Laresgoiti and Lopez Ancona decided that something Unfortunately, neither wanted to cash out of La expansion. In August of 2001, just two years after Laresgoiti would leave the company. As part of the La Ciudad De Los Ninos, as well as the rights territories. Lopez Ancona would retain the rights Mexico, California, and Spain, while Laresgoiti and parts of South America. It was also agreed Lopez Ancona would receive 0.25% of the revenue Laresgoiti would be given access to the existing the concept to potential investors. With the to conquer their respective territories and Lopez Ancona's initial plans for an but an unexpected complication arose. In park was to be built in Monterrey named Mundo would be a role-playing theme park with a very with the two main differences being its larger that Lopez Ancona was planning a plagiarism from its opening. Despite this, plans for a but it appeared that Lopez Ancona and company States over everything else. Plans for a City into development, despite the latter location The Los Angeles location was being planned while the New York location was to lease a located in Clarkstown, New York. Lopez-Ancona and company pitted two pursuing the Los Angeles location and Unfortunately, both projects ran into struggled during its development, and to a public vote due to a covenant between On top of this, the Monterrey location, which had its opening postponed On November 5th, 2002, the City of Children by local voters. This was due to the community's and the fact that the City of Children many feared would bring in additional Three days after this vote, a City of approval to move forward, but it would it would be Laresgoiti and Grupo Magico their children's city concept would be built in Laresgoiti's new Kids City venture La Ciudad De Los Ninos a success, but on an cost an estimated $40 million to construct and original City of Children. Wannado City would Florida. Laresgoiti and Grupo Magico would lease This space was previously the home decor City would be the size of three football fields, one of the largest shopping centers in the United The mall was the second largest in the country in the owner and operator of Sawgrass Mills, would the concept would cement Sawgrass Mills as South encourage children's retailers to lease space as 70 corporate sponsors to brand the various done at La Ciudad De Los Ninos, estimating that The concept art for Wannado City showcased its including the entrance themed to a plane being brought into Wannado City to serve as concept appeared identical to the original City of several original and ambitious experiences. in which families could travel to the city also touted more role-playing areas than La as well as additional careers for children to Magico had high hopes for the project, hoping that Wannado City annually. This estimate was based Ninos was experiencing. Wannado would focus and would charge between 15 and 30 dollars adults. Construction would begin in 2003 with announcements, Laresgoiti and Grupo Magico made the beginning of the Wannado franchise, with in the Mills Corporation's new shopping mall, which was set to break ground in 2004. After with Dallas, Atlanta, Chicago, and Toronto Within weeks of Laresgoiti and Grupo Lopez-Ancona contacted Laresgoiti informing him infringement. It is unclear what these initial violated the terms of the La Ciudad De Los Ninos Lopez Ancona filed a lawsuit against his former Magico. Lopez Ancona and company reportedly and his investors, which was swiftly denied. Ancona's .25 percent of Wannado's revenue over the calculate based on their projections, but Lopez in May of 2003, as Wannado City was well under Grupo Magico had offered Lopez Ancona and company dollars for each of the first eight Wannado potential settlement amount of 10 million dollars. lawsuits continued. In early 2004, Wannado City construction almost complete and employee training another suit against the project, this time in block the opening of Wannado City. The opening Laresgoiti and Grupo Magico refused to allow Fortunately for Laresgoiti, the court denied the With several lawsuits still pending and no its doors on August 13, 2004 and handed over [It's the fantastic, all-new Wannado City, the we gear 'em up, then they do Wannado City claimed to be the first indoor with advertising encouraging visitors to tap into those visiting Wannado City were greeted with with La Ciudad De Los Ninos would notice even Wannado City used almost identical role-playing The city featured a similar adult lounge on the with Wannado City's being dubbed the Eagle's Nest. technology of La Ciudad De Los Ninos to ensure a the expansive space allowed for additional venues ancient ruins. These massive areas resulted in City of Children, with 2700 kids able to visit 400 employees were hired to operate the city. experiences was reduced to just over 100 when the venues and worked closely with other positions. lawyer, jury member, journalist, newspaper editor, dentist, anesthesiologist, surgeon, emergency nurse, musician, manicurist, hair stylist, fashion theater actor, theater director, film television news anchor, DJ, clown, juggler, crime archaeologist, rock climber, miner, jeweler, As with La Ciudad De Los Ninos, the citizens of their first check when they entered, which was known as Wongas. Kidizens could earn Wongas by around the city. Children could buy a cookies from the bakery, a manicure, a pedicure, Wannado City also had multiple items that could be a parent's approval (and money), kids working at of themselves on the air for 10 real dollars. pay to adopt a baby doll to take home with them. pizzeria employee, which parents would need to pay pizza at the end of the activity. Wannado City had with certain jobs intersecting with one ticket to the theater would see a show with the were role-playing as actors. Despite these few City were mostly isolated and the progression of day. Wannado City also featured event space for the developers worked with local educators to complex could act as a field trip destination, [Interviewee] "To investigate a story, can never match an assignment in a classroom." Wannado City even opened up at night for so that they could get drunk Attendance at Wannado City was strong right be as big of a hit as La Ciudad De Los something even bigger. Plans for the Wannado City with Laresgoiti and Grupo Magico hoping the multiple lawsuits from Lopez Ancona threatened allegations of the lawsuit were more clear, as Lopez-Ancona claimed that Laresgoiti had stolen rights. Laresgoiti maintained that the parting in the agreed-upon territories. Lopez-Ancona and allowed Laresgoiti to build a child role-playing been given the rights to the exact architectural claiming both in the media and to investors [Laresgoiti] "I came up with the idea of While Laresgoiti had personally come up the originator of the concept and the owner Los Ninos, and by extension, Lopez-Ancona and his Grupo Magico offered to buy the concept and the with Lopez-Ancona setting the price this number differed so greatly from the payout that Laresgoiti believed there to be a complaint against La Ciudad De Los Ninos. As Laresgoiti continued to claim that he was the lawsuit against him. Lopez-Ancona also claimed allowed Laresgoiti and Grupo Magico to build new defense, at least in the press, that no one to do adult jobs because this was a universal and company were insistent that they were the to pursue a lawsuit against the Mills Corporation venue that they saw as an infringement on their additional defense, that the concept of children's that there were already 120 similar venues to La Since the relatively recent invention of activity of the youth. In the early 20th century, very gendered futures, with boys playing with and girls nursing baby dolls to sharpen experience among American children, mainly children were often too busy working their real it was a common idea in the US that children and not just tiny adults whose hands can venues were constructed specifically for their for local perverts, drunks, and picnickers, were children, relegating parents to park benches Kiddielands and similar children's amusement parks educational centers designed for little ones. offering unique exhibits tailor-made for children throughout the United States during the 20th had opened across the country. These concepts but eventually, economic exhibits allowed children consumer spaces, such as banks or grocery stores. children's museums had grown to 220, with an Children's science museums were not the only In 1930, an Ohio-based children's writer named Stories, intended to help children navigate A Mansfeld, Ohio Police officer named Frend C. Roberts' book and put them into practice. could role-play various traffic scenarios to pedestrians. Using pedal cars and bikes, children sets that composed Boals' Safety Town. The school to school in the nearby area, but resulted in the concept being adapted in other Towns that school groups would travel to visit. by 2019, 3500 Safety Towns existed in &quot;We learned about looking left and &quot;So you don't li-, die.&quot; While children's science museums and for younger elementary school children, similar a slightly older crowd. In January of 1981, a under the name Exchange City. Exchange City was an to spend a day role-playing in a miniature city in The children's visit was preceded by a four-week of economics and prepare kids for their visit smaller than the indoor kid city theme parks City encompassed a mere 8,500 square feet and Cards. Local businesses would donate a combined For maximum irony, the city designed to prepare of an abandoned warehouse in downtown Kansas for fifth graders. Founder and executive director for this age group because "this is the time when shoveling snow, or mowing lawns." In Exchange children would learn simple economic as well as run mock elections to determine including mayor. Depending on the school, the visit could be extensive, with children creating hallways of their elementary school. This building their anticipation for the fifth this was not true for every child, as despite school experience, the year I was in fifth grade reason despite going every year prior, which despite the fact that I had been preparing my Title Card: Kevin Is Not Mad Exchange City's daily operation was fully that children could perform, students would all activities affected one another. Professions journalist, arcade owner, factory worker, and primarily on the role of business owner. When rather than being handed a set amount of business owners would need to take out a loan to to a miniature warehouse, which was stocked full business. Materials included games, posters, had to pay their loan back with interest by the on their income. If they wanted to advertise airtime from Exchange City's radio. Citizens spent products from business owners, and they could [Kid Reporter] "And how much money do you make?" "And how much have you spent of it?" In some versions of the gameplay, business owners and throughout the day, fake emergencies Owners that had purchased the a claim, while those that declined At the end of the day, the citizens debriefed the economic lessons that they learned. Exchange City ran a one-week camp for students In the mid-1980s, Florida superintendent Howard City, recognizing the value in the concept his own school district. After convincing local Enterprise Village was constructed for the 1990. That same year, another educational center named Young AmeriTowne. In 1998, Enterprise a similar but slightly more mature version of the more complex and focused more on family-budgeting a set of circumstances that they would deciding which house to purchase and what children would be given a life circumstance that would impact their financial outlook and Finance Park and equivalent family-budgeting a car breaking down, a water heater leaking, hospitalization of a relative, a bridge collapsing an unexpected child, imprisonment due to The year after Finance Park opened, Junior children's financial education, approached both prospect of expanding their operations into a 2000s, Junior Achievement would construct throughout the United States, and they would middle schoolers across the country. During centers and children's museums were being opened in 2004, kid cities were already a since the space was not dominated by a singular States were unaware of how common the formative The presence of children's museums, safety towns, Wannado City's defense against the lawsuits Despite the heavily publicized conflict, it is reached. Reports indicate that sometime shortly the two parties reached a settlement in which undisclosed amount of money to Lopez-Ancona reported condition was that Laresgoiti could not few weeks after opening, Wannado City announced location in Japan. They also reiterated their the Mills Corporation within their new Xanadu $2 billion mall project would include a and a thrilling roller coaster. The Xanadu after Wannado City opened. Laresgoiti and and their collaboration with the Mills Aziz, CEO of Wannado Entertainment, said, Two additional Wannado Citys were planned, one Gurnee, Illinois and another for Mills' Block 37 Chicago. Lopez-Ancona was skeptical of Wannado Lopez-Ancona expressed his belief that Wannado nearly three times the size of the original City a much smaller population. He also made it clear La Ciudad De Los Ninos to the United States, but Magico. Complicating expansion further, Mundo was dubbed a knock-off of La Ciudad De Los Ninos, offered similar attractions but on a scale with operable excavators, drivable streets, and a a water droplet wearing a cowboy hat. Contrary to sue Mundo de Adeveras over the park's similarities to pursue their Monterrey expansion plans despite of both of these expansions would be largely and as the prevalence of Kid Cities grew and educators were able to judge the value The reviews from the kidizens of La Ciudad De positive. Six-year-old Yvette Sierra, while of Children's grocery store, exclaimed, "I was expected for a venue primarily designed for capitalists" of Exchange City - yes that's what the City of Children and Wannado City were while Exchange City, Enterprise Village, and more geared toward education and preparation for the children's enjoyment and stress levels during satisfaction in their jobs. Sixth-grade DJ Brian sound good." Newspaper editor Blake Jones said, "I educational. I bought a slinky from the Sports of Exchange City was exciting." Yeah, I bet it the pressures of the free-market overwhelming. jewelry business, lamenting, "Business is pretty going to have to do some advertising on the radio. be surprisingly good at the gameplay. 10-year-old that he was raising the price of T-shirts while Village, 11-year-old Steven Malla hosted the Home born salesman. Malla hawked his products, raving, want these. You do. You need these cards. There be used for any occasion. And for all you girls MEN in them. These men are handsome and they're boyfriend's picture in there. Whatever. Either reporter asked Malla what he would be when he grew The cutthroat nature of these economy and program staff. One of Exchange City's "It's sink or swim. Some of the kids make which they start the day. Other kids go broke." [Reporter] "You've got a busy job!" Are you having fun? "The post office got shut down because no [Reporter] "Business good?" We sold to one person so far." A Kansas City Times report on the summer camp of the days of the week-long camp, students were Exchange City, but were not allowed to bring that as a result "thirsty consumers will pay [Kid Reporter] "And do you like working? Elementary school principal Mark Grant said learned was the drudgery of mundane work, adding, Jason of Enterprise Village agreed, saying because, "It seems fun. You can check up on job." Staring down the barrel of monotony and was an experience that some children had at the who was employed at a Publix supermarket, explained that he wanted to be a soccer then I'll probably have to work in a supermarket." I feel rich. I'm not putting anything in the At Finance Park, middle schoolers were faced their budget. Reporter Adam Hughes overheard role-playing as an adult when the real adult a boring life on paper! Do something!" to which "Students are learning to do Beyond financial education, kid cities and civil service. Wannado City's hospital performed in Wannado's OR was shockingly graphic. task of slicing open the fake human body, and repulsing as they are adorable. These children to imagery of bloody lacerations, I would here we go. Reporter Peter Hossli observed to remove a kidney stone that was ailing a fake incision in the skin near the kidney. The girls but soon after slicing into the skin, one the sight and had to leave the tiny OR. Bianca quietly concluding, "She'll never become a "I didn't think that the actual basis could be found in an environment like this." The Wannado City EMTs had to with one of the children playing the part of would find the child, move them onto a gurney, There were also plenty of options for children The kid cities did an excellent job of taking the it into a complex experience that occurred some effort made to reduce the typical stakes that the courts in Wannado City would typically take should Goldilocks go to jail? However, depending Ninos would sometimes have the courts prosecute child police. One report read, "This place is which is why there is a children's prison, and with each other." The most common crimes in and cursing, but other cited infractions nature of Exchange City's business operations, which would inevitably bounce when a child bank Ellen Pittman recounted, "We had two kids go in things up." Some children were more extreme in City of Children and Wannado City, children could as the bars of the cells were made of rubber narratives created to justify their arrests cop Jorge tackled 11-year-old Luna, taking arrest for possession, explaining to a nearby he resisted arrest." Some detainees were less kid criminals reportedly broke into the maternity working in Exchange City's law enforcement believing that their assigned profession should admiration from their fellow citizens. This the justice system. One student judge snapped at a threatening them with additional fines, saying, If the accused did make it into mock court, they defense council. At Wannado City, a journal was their experiences and passed advice to future a takeaway from one of the former lawyers, who writing in the journal, "This job is so Wannado City seemed to be off to a the reviews were positive, and the attendance was short-lived. Just over a year after opening, in in Florida, causing major destruction throughout tourism market was severely impacted by the storm, multiple weeks. On top of this, the disruption trips to Wannado City. Representatives for Wannado a huge financial hit and the loss of nearly around this same time, the Securities and the Mills Corporation for accounting errors. The was $200 million less than initially reported. Colony Capital, and just a few months after The Simon Property Group and Farralon Capital $1.64 billion. The Mills Corporation was dead, expansion. Wannado Entertainment was not giving of assistance from the Mills Corporation Just over a year after opening, it was uncovered projections. Laresgoiti and Grupo Magico had per year, with a resulting $30 million in claims were made that Wannado had achieved reports revealed that these goals were far from tax payments, and after being threatened with an Wannado Entertainment paid the $200,000 in would bring a lawsuit against Wannado City, In spite of this, Wannado Entertainment but this opinion was not shared throughout Vice Chairman of Grupo Magico's parent company move forward until the company was "completely the unit that we have opened." Gonzalez also City was too big, claiming that it was "larger In an attempt to right the course, Wannado operational changes. The most common feedback that it was odd that they had to pay admission to of the activities. Anat Moyal, a parent visiting "It's truly ridiculous to pay for a parent just shopping. They're not a babysitter," adding, "It's hours, not all day. There are limited activities. lot of money into entertainment for the adults for children were too high. As a result of the for parents and discounted admission for children, this change would address the common criticism, To offset this, Wannado's WannaFinder security a $6 upcharge, parents could receive a short the city. To save on costs, Wannado City closed While Wannado City was addressing its issues, Lopez-Ancona and company were moving the second City of Children finally opened in The name would allow for a recognizable brand backstory was created to explain the formation that "governments operated inefficiently, valuable resources were routinely squandered, and "Too much already. Something had to be As a result, the children created KidZania, which Kool Kids." Just a few months after the second and the first to be franchised, would open brand was immediately effective, and the expansion strategy, with another location opening in November of 2007. Plans for additional with interest shown in markets all around Wannado City remained stagnant. Even was struggling, and they were experiencing The elementary school explanation of economics is their products for more than they cost to produce. there are many businesses that are able to profit customer base. The most common method to do this that require significant start-up costs. For a new baseball stadium was entirely put on the higher than most are willing to pay, which would decide to not attend. Pricing tickets in a range stronger attendance, but the reduced price might costs in a reasonable timeframe. So to make up to other companies, signing multi-million dollar signs throughout the stadium, on the player's rights to the stadium itself. Offsetting costs businesses, especially those in which the product savings are passed along to the consumer, some and streaming services, are sold at a significant within. Some services are even "free" thanks to and YouTube videos. Advertising has long been theme park. Disney relied heavily on advertising only became more reliant on them in the following less advertising revenue, as they have found is willing to pay for tickets at a high enough and many themed entertainment venues are dependent The benefit of the advertising revenue to the to the advertiser? In the case of a baseball awareness and recognition, while also creating a sports team, psychologically implying to potential the case of Disney parks, sponsored attractions and since most often the theme of the attraction a positive association is formed. For EPCOT Center's Spaceship Earth, a ride about the the sponsorship psychologically cues think about communication and the future. In is primarily directed at the adults of money and the power to purchase the product. but the products are mostly limited to things that entertainment. When United Technologies agreed to assume that they saw revenue potential from the some long-game psy-op on eight-year-olds hoping 30 to 40 years they would choose the Otis Elevator But what about an entertainment venue that is are sent to a boring lounge to read a book and its advertisers, alone. What would the As proved during the development of La Ciudad De almost suspicious, enthusiasm for funding kid of Children were some of the largest companies a result of Lopez-Ancona's business contacts from major corporations clearly saw something in of its construction, it was reported that Wannado City of Children had, and as a result, the project Florida, such as Plantation General Hospital, the Wannado City still received money from a few Cartoon Network, Spirit Airlines, CNN, and was added to the lineup, sponsoring a bottling City and Enterprise Village were smaller venues, a fraction of the cost, and yet, they still had Village had a McDonald's where kids could actually years later, brands such as AutoNation and Outback of the project that a waiting list was created which were even smaller in scope and directed at from corporations such as Bank of America and for why these Fortune 500 companies gave money to For one, these corporations could simply be children's futures. Another reason for these When developing Wannado City, Laresgoiti pointed look like a real city.'" Anna Martinez, agreed, explaining, "It's reality, what they're These justifications did not stop critics from Speaking on Wannado City, Harvard psychologist corporations are taking to insinuate themselves of Florida professor Paul George critiqued "I'm not convinced that reading, writing, and that, "It sounds to me like a giant commercial are incredibly impressionable. I feel like I'm avaricious retailers as it is. The idea that and make it mandatory is just mind-boggling." sided more with the perspective of these critics, excited about the collaboration. When State Farm representatives of Wannado Entertainment sponsor the city's tiny fire department, as insurance policies. However, upon hearing that could sponsor this venue instead. State Farm's "A lot of people don't know about [State great marketing opportunity. How awesome to have and debit card from State Farm. We can introduce to parents that we have a State Farm Bank. And if then the potential that these could be lifelong claiming Wannado employed "quality advertising mark in very little time. The half-hour the child entire life. It's something they'll never forget." recruit Wannado City's sponsors, explained that leaving a lasting impression that companies will Engwall, Vice President of the foundation that clarified, &quot;The sponsors believe, wholeheartedly, denying that when the kids walk out of here thinking first of Bank of America because that's The advertising theory was just as could be found in La Ciudad De Los Ninos, by Mexican snack company Marinela. At the factory, popular Gansito treat when she experienced a "It's neat because we get to find out how Gansitos but maybe now I'll start to like them." Spirit Wannado City sponsorship. Lynn Koreman, senior Spirit, hoped that the Wannado City flight things about Spirit. When they're sitting we hope everyone will be saying, 'We're flying learning that your child has been Spirit-pilled optimistic view of the kid cities, believing learn financial responsibility. Moreover, many model and other children's entertainment spaces, or were directly operated by mega-corporations. space can be as wholesome and brandless as When building Wannado City, Laresgoiti employed City of Children, but the project was proving Unlike La Ciudad De Los Ninos, which had relied costs, Wannado Entertainment had taken out a but operations had already found the maximum most close this gap, Wannado Entertainment continued to more advertisers to cover costs. A veterinary manufacturer Merial was added. Here, children were animatronics that "look so real that kids A new experience for older children was added, This experience, sponsored by Motorola, allowed would join the project as well, sponsoring an to be Oompa Loompas. Nestle, who also sponsored the kid city, because they have a long history The new attractions and sponsorships received City appeared to be making positive changes, In late 2007, it was revealed that real adults badly that the world entered the Great Recession. cities and miniature fake ones. Schools cut back spending. As a result, attendance fell at both "If we don't have enough money, Throughout this period, Junior Achievement was Cities into an updated version of the concept was occurring, the recession forced many costs. One location in New Hampshire closed The original location in Kansas City was in the the Kansas City Underground when the recession in the long list of setbacks for Wannado City. In specific reasons were given for his departure, plans had almost certainly been abandoned. Wannado City designed an extensive overlay to added to nearly every corner of the city, adding Multiple other professions were affected by the the modeling had dinosaurs, the theater had News Network. There were dinosaurs placed re-themed to allow children to take a guided tour when most of the dinosaur theming was removed, bus as part of a 13-month $50,000 sponsorship In August of 2009, the recession, along with de Adeveras closing its gates. The park was documented the park in recent years. The derelict and theming. The factory is still intact, as now overrun with miniature graffiti, tiny debris, de Adeveras would not be the only kid city to fall 18, 2010, it was announced that Wannado City would as attendance had remained a significant to properly address it, despite the addition Taste Emporium in which children could take on the flavors, and a new show in Wannado City's theater, puppet show tribute to the Beatles." Meanwhile, become worse. Admission was increased to outrageous. Some believed that the experience closing during slow periods. When a busy day did leading many children to spend a significant not new. While Wannado City had clearly learned deterrent to visiting families, the park was still with new sponsorships throughout its life, lack main reasons for its closure. When contacted, the park had no statement on its closure. Wannado a few weeks after this announcement, the date was doors on January 2, 2011. 314 employees were laid and rides were put up for auction, including the for $20,000 by a man named Joe Axline, who lifelong dream was to live inside of an airplane, closing of Wannado City, as well as his divorce. Freedom" in a reference to his divorce. There's which allowed children to live out their dreams adult to achieve their childhood dream of living many of Wannado City's frequent visitors, a group of Sawgrass Mills, who seemed eager to fill large space used by Wannado City would be gutted multiple luxury retailers would set up shop. The While Wannado City was falling, KidZania constructed, along with new parks in Portugal, of KidZanias to eight. Luis Javier Laresgoiti had behind, but he could not stay away from kid cities new role-playing theme center under the new brand than Wannado City, costing just $5 million to notable difference between this new project parents could participate in the fun. Laresgoiti guardians was the most common complaint in and he believed that Kandu would find more success Kandu was branded as "the first job-experiencing themselves." Kandu opened in Bogata, Colombia four more kid cities throughout the country. That Santiago, Chile and another in Mexico City. In Colombia in the city of Medellin, and another in to Kuwait, Egypt, and Thailand. In 2014 and 2015, London, and Brazil. KidZania's expansion remained already stalled. In 2015, Kandu Medellin closed following year, while KidZania was expanding in South Korea and India, Kandu was facing another in Bogata, Colombia closed its doors, leaving the In 2016, the Exchange City in Kansas City financial difficulties and a long series of job seriously. I would have run laps around in a landslide. This kid would cry if he saw my of the last remaining Exchange Cities to not which by the mid-2010s had dozens of locations an additional location in 2018, when Kandu Torino open an additional location in Mexico and a new new KidZanias were opened, including, finally, Dallas. In 2020, the Covid-19 pandemic forced most including kid cities. While most centers would many would cease operations for good during locations and the Kandu in Torino, Italy. The just a single operating location. KidZania would with most locations reopening and several new are operating with five more in development. with over 40 JA BizTowns now operating throughout opened a new BizTown in Kansas City, bringing the Thanks to the success of KidZania and JA BizTown, many feel conflicted about. The effects of kid curriculums, especially in the United States, theoretical, and according to some, useless. taught in schools has no real world application. Pythagorean Theorem when we could have learned Why did the Department of Education insist that of the cell rather than forcing us to take a great and that no one would have ever complained extreme, showcasing what a curriculum focused on educators alike lauded the kid cities for their education. But at the same time, over-preparing has its drawbacks. Cementing the inner workings can come across as an indoctrination of the "It's very hard, in our public school system, for people to learn about the free enterprise If all you do is teach children how to be less equipped and motivated to change and the world is always changing, and the world that will not be the world that they enter when they City transitioned into JA BizTown was because on balancing checkbooks and filling out ledgers, life. Professions also change over time. Today's up work as a food worker or a firefighter, but new and Amazon delivery driver showcase the passage kid cities act as a supplement to academics. education centers and a focus on entertainment escape most criticism, but concerns over infiltration of advertising on impressionable and likely deserves more thought than it has There will probably never be a consensus on issues be introduced to McDonald's, but there is a less controversial and far more depressing. and adults will always want to be children. while adults view their freedom as responsibility. relatively privileged childhood, and were due to circumstance. It is easy to blame the structures, or the United States, but those are concept is universal. Kid cities are now enjoyed different economic system, in a theoretical and the genius of Kid Cities is that they harness to play out their desire to experience adulthood. a fantastical recreation of their childhoods to unless you build a giant simulated environment so in which case, envy rocks, and if managed is your lesson in the grown-up world.