A B C, come and see, all the letters are unique. From A to Z, learn with me. A B C D A B C D, dance with me. E F G H E F G H, ok. A B C, come and see, all the letters are unique. From A to Z, learn with me. I J K L I J K L, let's learn all of them. M N O P M N O P, sing with Lingokids. A B C, come and see, all the letters are unique. From A to Z, learn with me. A B C, come and see, all the letters are unique. From A to Z, learn with me. Q R S T U V W These are the last three. X Y Z A B C, come and see, all the letters are unique. From A to Z, learn with me. A B C, come and see, all the letters are unique. From A to Z, learn with me. A-E-I-O-U. That's how words come true. A-E-I-O-U. Vowels are here for you. A-E-I-O-U are vowels. Learn the sounds today, make a word tomorrow. Tomorrow, tomorrow. A-E-I-O-U That's how words come true. A says a like a in cat. E says e e in bed. Cat, bed, cat, bed, cat, bed. A-E-I-O-U. That's how words come true. I says i i in pig. O says o o in box. Pig, box, pig, box, pig, box. A-E-I-O-U. That's how words come true. U says u u in run. A-E-I, oh vowels are fun. Vowels. A-E-I-O-U. That's how words come true. A-E-I-O-U. Vowels are here for you. -Do you want to know something cool? -Yeah. -Sometimes two letters can work together to make one special sound. Let me show you how. Give me a C. -C -And an h. -H. -If we put these letters together the sound they make is 'ch', like cheese. -Cheese. -Chicken. -Chicken. -Cherry. -Cherry. -Chair. -Chair. -Now, give me an s. -S. -And an h. -H. -If we put these letters together, the sound they make is 'sh', like shoes. -Shoes. -Shell. -Shell. -Ship. -Ship. -Shadow. -Shadow. -Two letters together can make one special sound Two letters together can make one special sound Two letters together can make one special sound Two letters together can make one special sound -Now, give me a t. -T. -And an h. -H. -If we put these two together, the sound they make is 'th', like thumb. -Thumb. -Three. -Three. -Throat. -Throat. -Thunder. -Thunder. -Two letters together can make one special sound Two letters together can make one special sound -Now, repeat after me as we review our special sounds. C and h make ch. -C and h make ch. -S and h make sh. -S and h make sh. -T and h make th. -T and h make th. -Two letters together can make one special sound Two letters together can make one special sound One special sound [laughter] -That was fun. [music] Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. If you tidy up your room with me, we could do it easily. First, go the crayons in their box. If you make it a rainbow, it's more fun. Then go the pencils in the cup. Tidy, tidy, tidy, tidy tidy them up! Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. If you tidy up your room with me, we could do it easily. Close the glue and put it away, so you can use it another day. Get the papers, stack them up. Stack, stack, stack, stack, stack them up! Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. If you tidy up your room with me, we could do it easily. Wash your hands after you paint, then close the colors and put them away. Get the scissors. Keep them safe. Close them up, that's how they stay! Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. [music] Hi, welcome to my home. I'm glad you came along. Let me show you all the different rooms. First, we have the kitchen Where we can find the fridge. This is where we store our groceries. We can also find the oven. This is where we roast all the veggies and make delicious cakes. Hi, welcome to my home. I'm glad you came along. Let me show you all the different rooms. Welcome to the living room. On the couch is where we read. And in the evening, also watch TV. Next, we have the dining room. This is where we eat. At the table with our family. Play and learn inside my house. Play and learn inside my house. Play and learn inside my house. Play and learn inside my house. Hi, welcome to my home. I'm glad you came along. Let me show you all the different rooms. Come inside the bathroom. It's so shiny and so clean. This is where we bath and brush our teeth. Next, we have the bedroom. In the bed is where we dream. Turn off the lamp, so we can go to sleep. I'm just an F I say /f/ And I'm an L And I say /l/ Come over to my letter Let's put ourselves together There's so much that we can spell We can fly a flag on a flagpole We can flip, and we can flop We can even spell flamingo And we don't forget to floss So let's spell Come over to my letter Let's spell We can blend ourselves together Let's spell Come over to my letter Let's spell We can blend ourselves together Hey, I'm a C, And I say /k/ And I'm an R, I say /r/ Come over to my letter Let's put our sounds together And we can go so far We'll create some crafts with crayons We can crash, and we can crush We can make a crab crawl crazy And we can crunch a crispy crust Yum Let's spell Come over to my letter Let's spell We can blend ourselves together Let's spell Come over to my letter Let's spell We can blend our sounds together I'm just an S And I say /s/ And I'm a P I say /p/ Come over to my letter Let's put our sounds together There's so much that we can be We can make spinach and spaghetti Oh, yeah We can travel up to space We can splash all day in the sprinkler And we can sprint to the end of the race So let's spell Come over to my letter Let's spell We can blend our sounds together Let's spell Come over to my letter Let's spell We can blend our sounds together [music] Choo choo choo choo choo Choo choo choo choo choo A train is coming down the track Hear the wheels go click and clack Count the cars. Watch them go. Will it stop? ST-O-P or will it go? G-O Stop or go, stop or go. Watch the lights so we know. G-O, G-O Go Choo choo, choo choo The train was fast, and now it's slow. See the ducks walk in a row? They want to cross, so now we know our train must stop. ST-O-P We cannot go, G-O. Stop or go, stop or go. Watch the lights so we know. ST-O-P. ST-O-P Stop, stop, stop. A train has gone down the track. No more wheels click and clack. No more lights flash to and fro. We had to stop. ST-O-P Stop or go, stop or go. Watch the lights so we know. Now we know, now we know. Let's G-O, go! Choo choo Choo choo Choo choo a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z Now I know my abcs Next time won't you rock with me! 1... 2... 1, 2, 3, 4... A B C D E F and G H I J K L M N O P Now I know my ABCs Next time won't you sing with me! Q R S T U V W Y X Y Z Q R S T U V W X Y Z Now I know my ABCs Next time won't you sing with me! Now I know my ABCs Next time won't you dance with me! Now I know my ABCs A B C D. A B C D. Let's pretend to be a tree. Let's pretend to be a tree. E F G H. E F G H. Let's go swimming in the lake. Let's go swimming in the lake. I J K L. I J K L. At breakfast time, we ring the bell. At breakfast time, we ring the bell. M N O P. M N O P. Learning letters helps me read. Learning letters helps me read. Q R S T U. Q R S T U. LingoCamp is here for you. LingoCamp is here for you. V W X Y Z. V W X Y Z. Start again and chant with me. Start again and chant with me. A B C D. Let's pretend to be a tree. A B C D. Let's pretend to be a tree. E F G H. Let's go swimming in the lake. E F G H. Let's go swimming in the lake. I J K L. At breakfast time, we ring the bell. I J K L. Yodel lay ee, yodel lay ee, M N O P. Learning letters helps me read. M N O P. Learning letters helps me read. Q R S T U. LingoCamp is here for you. Q R S T U. LingoCamp is here for you. V W X Y Z. Say goodbye and wave to me. V W X Y Z. Say goodbye and wave to me. Goodbye. Goodbye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Who's ready to rhyme? Me! Cowy was walking Down by the lake When she met a snake Getting ready to bake. A little while later The snake pulled out a cake. Lake, snake, bake, cake Lake, snake, bake, cake It's rhyme time. It's rhyme time. Rhyming is cool When we're in the pool. It's rhyme time. It's rhyme time. Rhyming is fun For everyone! Cowy was taking a beautiful hike When she saw a panda Riding a bike. Then she saw a rose Growing a nose. Hike, bike, rose, nose Hike, bike, rose, nose It's rhyme time. It's rhyme time. Rhyming is fun When we're in the sun. It's rhyme time. It's rhyme time. Rhyming is fun For everyone! Cowy and her rocket Were flying up to space When she flew by the moon It made a silly face. Wow, thought Cowy. This is such a crazy place. Space, face, place, moon No! Moon doesn't rhyme with space. Okay, you're right! How about space, face, place, race? Space, face, place, race Did that rhyme? Yes! It's rhyme time. It's rhyme time. Rhyming is great, But don't be late. It's rhyme time. It's rhyme time. Rhyming is fun For everyone! [music] I'm going to need your help with this song. I want you to listen for the sound word and repeat it back. Are you ready? Here we go. I hear the wind whoosh through the trees Whoosh The leaves crunch under my feet Crunch The rocks kerplunk into the lake Kerplunk And I feel drip drops on my face Drip drop Listen up to the sounds all around you Listen up, can you use your ears Listen up to the sounds all around you Listen up, tell me what you hear That was great. This time, you're going to listen for the sound word and repeat it back twice. The car vrooms down the street Vroom, vroom Its horn goes beep Beep, beep It screeches to a stop Screech, screech And the tire goes pop Pop, pop Uh-oh Listen up to the sounds all around you Listen up, can you use your ears Listen up to the sounds all around you Listen up, tell me what you hear This last time, you're going to listen for the sound word and repeat it three times. Don't forget to be silly. I chomp on my food Chomp, chomp, chomp I gulp down my drink Gulp, gulp, gulp And now I have the hiccups Hiccup, hiccup, hiccup Oh, no, I'm going to sneeze Achoo Listen up to the sound all around you Listen up, can you use your ears Listen up to the sounds all around you Listen up, tell me what you hear Achoo. A, B, C, D. A, B, C, D. In the morning brush your teeth. In the morning brush your teeth. E, F, G, H. E, F, G, H. Hurry up and don't be late. Hurry up and don't be late. I, J, K, L. I, J, K, L. Learn the letters very well. Learn the letters very well. M, N, O, P, Q, M, N, O, P, Q, What we say is what we do. What we say is what we do. R, S, T, U. R, S, T, U. You love me and I love you. You love me and I love you. V, W, X, Y, Z. V, W, X, Y, Z. Start again and chant with me. Start again and chant with me. A, B, C, D. In the morning brush your teeth. A, B, C, D. In the morning brush your teeth. E, F, G, H. Hurry up and don't be late. E, F, G, H. Hurry up and don't be late. I, J, K, L. Learn the letters very well. I, J, K, L. Learn the letters very well. M, N, O, P, Q. What we say is what we do. M, N, O, P, Q. What we say is what we do. R, S, T, U. You love me and I love you. R, S, T, U. You love me and I love you. V, W, X, Y, Z. Say goodbye and wave to me. V, W, X, Y, Z. Say goodbye and wave to me. Bye, goodbye. See you next time Bye. Bye-bye. Bye, bye. [music] -Look Baby Bot. The sky. -The sky. -That's a cloud. -Clown? -[laughs] No, cloud. -Cloud. -That's the sun. -Sun. -Very good, Baby Bot. Don't worry, Baby Bot. That's the moon. -Moon. -Good night, everyone. [music] [music] Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? I can see some circles spinning down the street. Wheels of cars and buses looking really neat. Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? I see some orange cones right next to the road, warning there are people busy digging holes. Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? I can see cylinders, when it's time to eat. Open up the pantry, to get a can of peas. Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? I can see a sphere, when I'm playing ball. Pass it on to my friends, this is fun for all. Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? I can see a big heart, a big heart on a shelf, wishing love and friendship, happiness, and health. Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? I can see many cubes, in my big toy box. Try to build a tower, stacking up my blocks. Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? [music] Summer's here, so call your friends Put on the sunscreen so the fun never ends Grab a beachball and the towels too The sun is out and the sky is blue This is the summer The summer song Between 11:00 and 4:00 PM Seek, seek, seek, seek, seek some shade Wear a hat, sunglasses too Here you go, one for me and for you This is the summer The summer song [music] Summer's here, so call your friends Put on the sunscreen so the fun never ends Grab some fruit and water too The sun is out and the sky is blue This is the summer The summer song Between 11:00 and 4:00 PM Seek, seek, seek, seek, seek some shade Wear a hat, sunglasses too Here you go, one for me and for you This is the summer The summer song [music] This is the summer, the summer song This is the summer, the summer song This is the summer, the summer song [music] My friend the bear can't cross the lake. Help me build a bridge so we could blow the cake. My friend the fox needs to build a home. Let's dig a hole to keep him safe from the storm. Let's build new friendships with this song. You too could come along. Let's build the roads to meet our friends and play all day long. Let's build new friendships with this song. You too could come along. Let's build the roads to meet our friends and play all day long. All day long! [music] My friend the stork needs to lay her eggs. Let's build a tower to make her nest. My friend the mole is late to the party. Let's dig a tunnel so he can reach his family. Let's build new friendships with this song. You too could come along. Let's build the roads to meet our friends and play all day long. [music] Let's build new friendships with this song. You too could come along. Let's build the roads to meet our friends and play all day long. All day long! [music] [music] Billy, Billy, Billy. [whistles loudly] Can you blow up a balloon for me? [whistles] [chuckles] It's very small. Can you make it bigger? That's a medium-sized balloon. I want a big balloon! Bigger! I want a big balloon! Bigger, bigger, bigger! More, more, more! Billy, not that big. Smaller, smaller, smaller. Oops, not that small. Bigger, bigger, bigger! More, more, more. Not so big. Smaller, smaller. Bigger, smaller, bigger, smaller, bigger, bigger, smaller. Bigger! More, more, more. More! Billy. That's perfect. La, lala, la, la... [chuckles] [music] [music] I'm feeling hungry and there's nothing in the fridge So come on, tie your shoes and let's go to the store We need to cross the city, say hi to everyone We go by the post office, the butcher, the park, and the clothing store The hospital, the fire station, and the ice-cream shop And there is the store Filled with everything that we've been looking for From fruit and meat, to fish and eggs, and my favorite vegetables How fun is the store [music] Let's get our bag for the groceries, make sure it's a reusable one Don't forget to smile at the cashier and pay for everything we've bought We need to cross the city to take all the things back home We go by the post office, the butcher, the park, and the clothing store Oh wait, I think we forgot someone Let's get back to the store Filled with everything that we've been looking for From fruit and meat, to fish and eggs, and my favorite vegetables How fun is the store [music] How fun is the store [music] Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Look how easy it can be Sing with me 1 plus 1 equals 2 2 plus 2 equals 4 3 plus 3 equals 6 4 plus 4 equals 8 5 plus 5 equals 10 Now let's add the bigger ones 6 plus 6 equals 12 7 plus 7 equals 14 8 plus 8 equals 16 9 plus 9 equals 18 10 plus 10 equals 20 Now you know how to add. Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Look how easy it can be Sing with me 1 plus 1 equals 2 2 plus 2 equals 4 3 plus 3 equals 6 4 plus 4 equals 8 5 plus 5 equals 10 Now let's add the bigger ones 6 plus 6 equals 12 7 plus 7 equals 14 8 plus 8 equals 16 9 plus 9 equals 18 10 plus 10 equals 20 Now you know how to add Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Elliot was building a castle. He started with the door. He had five blocks, but suddenly one went missing. Who stole the missing block? Who could it be? Maybe it was Lisa? But she said, "No, it wasn't me!" Elliot started to build a tower. He wanted to make it green. He had four blocks, but suddenly one went missing. Who stole the missing blocks? Who could it be? Maybe it was Billy? But he said, "No, it wasn't me!" Elliot decided to add a roof. He wanted to make it blue. He had three blocks, but suddenly one went missing. Who stole the missing blocks? Who could it be? Maybe it was Baby Bot? But he said, "No, it wasn't me!" Elliot was getting suspicious. But he was still having fun! He had two blocks left, but suddenly one went missing. Who stole the missing blocks? Who could it be? Maybe it was Cowy? And she said, "Yes! It was me!" I'm going down, down, down, under the sea. I'm going down, down, down, won't you come with me? I'm going down, down, down, under the sea. I'm going down, down, down, won't you come with me? Where the whale swims... I'm going down, down, down, under the sea. I'm going down, down, down, won't you come with me? Where the whale swims, and the starfish shine... I'm going down, down, down, under the sea. I'm going down, down, down, won't you come with me? Where the whale swims, and the starfish shine, and the seahorse jumps! I'm going down, down, down, under the sea. I'm going down, down, down, won't you come with me? Where the whale swims, and the starfish shine, and the seahorse jumps away. Where the clam... huh, what does the clam do? I'm going down, down, down, under the sea. I'm going down, down, down, won't you come with me? Won't you come with me? Come with me. Won't you come with me? Today, we're going to learn to count by twos. You just need to repeat after me. Here we go. 2, 4, 6, 8. 2, 4, 6, 8. Let's learn to count by twos today. Let's learn to count by twos today. 10, 12, 14. 10, 12, 14. We skip the number in between. We skip the number in between. 16, 18, 20. 16, 18, 20. Wow. You're pretty rocking. Let's do it again while hopping 2, 4, 6, 8. 2, 4, 6, 8. Let's learn to count by twos today. Let's learn to count by twos today. 10, 12, 14. 10, 12, 14. We skip the number in between. We skip the number in between. 16, 18, 20. 16, 18, 20. Wow. I love your rapping. Let's do it again while clapping. 2, 4, 6, 8. 2, 4, 6, 8. Let's learn to count by twos today. Let's learn to count by twos today. 10, 12, 14. 10, 12, 14. We skip the number in between. We skip the number in between. 16, 18, 20. 16, 18, 20. You're a counting champion. Let's do it again while dancing. 2, 4, 6, 8. 2, 4, 6, 8. Let's learn to count by twos today. Let's learn to count by twos today. 10, 12, 14. 10, 12, 14. We skip the number in between. We skip the number in between. 16, 18, 20. 16, 18, 20. I think you've got this mastered. Just one more time. Much faster. 2, 4, 6, 8. 2, 4, 6, 8. Let's learn to count by twos today. Let's learn to count by twos today. 10, 12, 14. 10, 12, 14. We skip the number in between. We skip the number in between. 16, 18, 20. 16, 18, 20. You did it. [laughter] Alright, alright! Today's going to be a fun day. And I'm going to need your help. So keep your eyes on the hands of the clock. Because we're starting... now! At eight o'clock I wake up. Make my bed. Put on my clothes. At nine o'clock Breakfast time! Brush my teeth. Get ready to go. At ten o'clock Time for school. With my friends It's always cool. Eleven o'clock Play outside. Watch me race Down the slide. Hours, Hours of the day. Hours, Hours of the day. Alright, alright. That's good, really good! But this is just the morning We still have lots of hours ahead. Are you ready? Twelve o'clock I learn a song. We celebrate and dance along. Yeah! At one o'clock Time for lunch. I love my veggies. Yum, yum, yum! At two o'clock We take it slow. I have a nap. That's how I roll. Hours, Hours of the day. Hours, Hours of the day. Well done! This is going great. But don't back off now! The best has yet to come... Let's go! At four o'clock After school I go swimming in the pool. At six o'clock Quack, quack, quack. I play with Ducky in the bath. At eight o'clock Get pj's on. I read a story. Start to yawn. Hours, Hours of the day. Hours, Hours of the day. Nice job! We've arrived at nine o'clock, And I'm getting sleepy. I don't know about you, but I'm going to have sweet dreams Hours, Hours of the day. Hours, Hours of the day. Hours, Hours of the day. Hours, Hours of the day. Counting from 20 is as easy as the ABCs. So get ready to have fun And sing along with me! 20, 19, 18, 17, 16, 15, 14, 13, 12, 11, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Counting from 20 is as easy as the ABCs. So get ready to have fun And sing along with me! 20, 19, 18, 17, 16, 15, 14, 13, 12, 11, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Counting from 20 is as easy as the ABCs. So get ready to have fun And sing along with me! 20, 19, 18, 17, 16, 15, 14, 13, 12, 11, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. 20, 19, 18, 17, 16, 15, 14, 13, 12, 11, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. [music] The eggs are hidden. Where should we look? Up in the rocket. Behind a book. Inside the toolbox there might be one. Or in the cupboard. This is so much fun! I found three blue eggs. That's more than two. I found four yellow ones. That's more than you. I found two red eggs. That's less than three. I found a green egg. Will you count them all with me? One, two, three. Will you count them all with me? Four, five, six. Count them while you move your feet. Seven, eight. Look how many Oh, that's great! Nine and ten. All together equals ten. The eggs are hidden Where should we look? Up on the mountain. Or on the moon. Among the flowers. Under a pot. Let's go and count them. There all a lot! I found three blue eggs. That's more than two. I found four yellow ones. That's more than you. I found two red eggs. That's less than three. I found a green egg. Will you count them all with me? One, two, three. Will you count them all with me? Four, five, six. Count them while you move your feet. Seven, eight. Look how many. Oh, that's great! Nine and ten. All together equals ten. One, two, three. Will you count them all with me? Four, five, six. Count them while you move your feet. Seven, eight. Look how many Oh, that's great! Nine and ten. All together equals ten. The eggs are hidden, where should we look? Every time I want to cross the street I stop and look both ways, both left and right. Before I can safely move my feet I've got to wait, wait for a green light! If the red light is flashing. If the green light is shining! Look both ways to stay safe. Just stop, look, and cross. That's the way! Every time I want to cross the street I wait at the crosswalk, by the stoplight. Gonna cross the road, count to the beat. Until it's my turn, I just hang tight! If the red light is flashing. If the green light is shining. Look both ways to stay safe Just stop, look, and cross. That's the way! Every time I want to cross the street I stop and look both ways, both left and right. Before I can safely move my feet I've got to wait, wait for a green light. If the red light is flashing. If the green light is shining. Look both ways to stay safe. Just stop, look, and cross. That's the way! Look both ways to stay safe. Oh yeah! Make sure to look both ways! [music] I spy with my little eye something beginning with the letter W. Whale. Window. I spy with my little eye something beginning with the letter W. Wool. Wolf. [music] Sawasdee! I speak Thai. And I live in the country of Thailand. We're part of South East Asia. And we have hundreds of beaches and islands. We love to see the tropical fish In the beautiful blue lagoon. I really love my country And I know that you would too. Where are you from? What do you speak? Where do you live? Tell me all about your country! Jambo! I'm from Kenya And my language is Swahili. Our country is part of Africa And we're known for our safaris. We love to watch the lions roam Under the beautiful African sky. I really love my country. I hope you stop on by. Where are you from? What do you speak? Where do you live? Tell me all about your country! Hallo! I'm from Germany And the language I speak is German. Our country is part of Europe And our capital is Berlin. We're home to the alpine ibex And the towering Rocks of Bastei. I really love my country. And you should come see why Where are you from? What do you speak? Where do you live? Tell me all about your country! Head, shoulders, knees and toes, knees and toes. Head, shoulders, knees and toes, knees and toes. Eyes and ears and mouth and nose. Head, shoulders, knees and toes. Faster! Head, shoulders, knees and toes, knees and toes. Head, shoulders, knees and toes, knees and toes. Eyes and ears and mouth and nose. Head, shoulders, knees and toes. Faster! Toes, knees, shoulders, head, shoulders, head. Toes, knees, shoulders, head, shoulders, head. Nose and mouth and ears and eyes. Toes, knees, shoulders, head. Head, shoulders, knees and toes, knees and toes. Head, shoulders, knees and toes, knees and toes. Eyes and ears and mouth and nose. Head, shoulders, knees and toes. [music] More songs, activities, [music] [laughter] That was fun. [music]