- Is this crazy story. The &quot;Wall Street Journal&quot; - [Joanna] Previously, are stealing people's - New warning about iPhone thefts connected to your passcode. - And then taking over these victims' financial and digital lives. That was chapter one, this is chapter two. - I went to visit my buddy in Chicago. (upbeat music) And my phone was stolen. (patrons talking indistinctly) And the thieves were able which would lock me out I'm willing to do anything possible just to get my photos and videos back. (phone ringing) - [Support] Thank you for - Can't access iCloud account. - My inbox has been flooded who can't get back into to access years of It's the collateral damage caused by a hidden iPhone - The killer has been the recovery key. - So, I dug into the secret setting and found out that it's flawed, big time. Thieves committing crimes use the passcode to before they steal money This way, the owners to wipe the device and use Find my iPhone. To understand how thieves think of your Apple account like a house. The thieves get in and then keep you out by changing the main your Apple account password. Yes, with the passcode to your iPhone they can change the It's a major vulnerability in itself, which I talked about a Now, if a victim wants to get back in, they go through account recovery, aka, the old forgot your Apple will ask for your provide that and a texted to create a new password But many of these thieves They change the trusted phone number and or create a recovery key. Under Settings, Apple ID, Password &amp; Security, Account Recovery, you can turn on a recovery key, which creates a unique 28 character code. It is now needed to get to the step of changing your account password. If you don't have that code, Apple says you could be locked out of your the door can never be opened. When you call Apple and you tell them you don't have the recovery - To an extent, they told me, There was no possible way to or to get access to my data without that specific recovery key. I contacted Apple support, many levels tried to escalate that. I went through Apple Legal who pushed me back to Apple Support. I've spoken to many attorneys trying to figure out a course - When I reached out to a spokesman said, &quot;We who have had this experience on our users very seriously, We work tirelessly every day to protect our users' accounts and data, and we are always investigating additional protections against emerging The recovery key was supposed to your Apple account from online hackers. But there's a big flaw. Even if someone like Greg already a thief with the iPhone's passcode could create a new key which would replace the old one. Apple designed this as for people who misplaced a Fundamentally, account recovery is about proving that Greg, and many others I've Apple other forms of - I've been willing to give Apple any piece of identification that I am me and this is my account. Whether or not that be my ID, my passport, my social security number. - Of course, there's a reason Apple doesn't keep your social There is one thing you can do right now to prevent this from happening if your iPhone were ever stolen Go to Settings, Screen Time, and create a passcode that's different from your main phone passcode. Now, go to Screen Time, then turn on this switch. Scroll down to the where it says Account Changes Now, a thief wouldn't be able to get into this area to or turn on that recovery key, they would need that screen time passcode. But clearly, there is far to protect us from crimes like this. The recovery key policies so that it's not the only way to get back into an account And Apple should certainly from being so easily by someone who has your And Apple should provide another way to confirm people are who they are, possibly by accepting government IDs. Ultimately, this entire crime is based around Apple loopholes. A stolen phone, passcode, shouldn't mean fighting one of to get our memories back. - At this point I'm willing to offer Apple whatever it takes to get my whether it's tens of thousands of dollars, a retina scan, a DNA