PAUL FREEDMAN: Today, about what is arguably the most first part of our course, the Roman emperor, to Important not because own particular opinions. The fact that he embraced a little hard to explain on But its importance is that it It represents the beginning of Roman Empire, a very Because not only had the prior history of the empire, over 250 years, but of course, to death by the forces And as we've discussed, Roman what we've called &quot;civic of ceremonies in public, with local patriotism, emperor Olympian gods, and, above all, to Christianity. The Christian religion thus annoying epiphenomenon of Roman with this event, Constantine's tolerated religion, then a quickly, within the course of official and almost the only How can this be? We'll discuss both the specific their meaning, and how We recall then that what traditional religion of polytheistic, was many gods, variation, and it eclectic meaning that you could in different places, different different gods for different There was a certain emotional perceived vacuum, in this deny individual longing and longing, that sense internally than there appears to be. So that many adherents of other but not limited to, Christianity some part of their body was immortal, or that the immortal religion, and not that religion pathway to good fortune or to material world. So Christianity, we've said, is focused on heaven. It is that. But even more important perhaps inner worldliness, the sense soul that yearns for something And then Christianity was &quot;mystery religions,&quot; religions immaterial, heroic, non-civic, Mithraism, for example, mother goddess Cybele. Christianity had certain reaching a population, the commitment that it demanded appealed both to the elite and very strong local But Christianity was alien The Romans did not always they did under Diocletian. But they found Christianity They didn't like the fact that Every other religion of the exception, accepted If you worshipped Isis, you people worshipping Jupiter. If you worshipped Cybele, you people worshipping Mithra. But Christianity, of course, The only other religion that But Judaism made some Empire, recognized the authority emperor, and did not defy the Christianity at least And Christianity was not a Roman ways that it rejected engagement in or enjoyment of pleasures of the theater, the civic paganism, emperor Well, law courts may But this sort of civic the Empire are rejected Christianity, when you see what it, is a kind of killjoy It's a religion of people who focused on anything but the ahead in Roman society. All of this notwithstanding, it Christianity was not persecuted the persecution very intense. We have Nero in the late 60s AD, the mid-third century, and of under Diocletian. Christianity received just say, to fortify its spirit, to enough to break it. Constantine emerged from the abdication. Diocletian, and as you'll man rule, the Tetrarchy, in perceived as an excessively excessively large administrative The Tetrarchy was, at least we to failure. These four emperors would They would tend to be rivals. Constantine was the son of one subordinates. Remember there were two His father was Constantius the Tetrarchy began in So there was an Augustus of the West. The Caesar of the West The young Constantine was sent Augustus, who succeeded Constantine was left out when Diocletian abdicated. Galerius appointed and Constantine rebelled. Constantine, in 306, raised an marched on Gaul, and eventually recognized by Galerius At the same time, another augustus, a man named Maxentius, And I will not burden you with intrigues, of the fightings of augusti and caesars. But basically, in 311, Galerius, with cancer, died. And Galerius was succeeded the East named Licinius. And Licinius allowed Constantine usurper Maxentius in the West. east in 311, and then in the Maxentius fighting it out. Galerius has died. Constantine defeated Maxentius the Battle of the The Battle of the Milvian And Constantine was now Licinius, Augustus in the Milvian Bridge is the context changed Constantine's mind orientation. Just before the Battle Bridge, something happened. There are two stories that One is that Constantine And in this dream, an angel to paint a symbol combining the Greek letter rho on his The rho, the R in Greek, and the two letters symbolize, or at symbolize, Christ, the first the second a rho. The second version, which is circulation as a story, but attested by the emperor his biographer, Eusebius. According to Eusebius, his army before the battle. And he, along with the army, And superimposed on the sun, cross appeared, were the words, conquer.&quot; Hard to say which Constantine thought The argument for the second description, partly the fact standard kind of story. On the other hand, the Chi Rho sign of Christianity. So the very fact that there that this is something that we time, might indicate that But more important than what there's no reason to doubt There is no reason to believe cynical, or politically This is not because Constantine He was. But because it's hard to imagine that Christianity Because Christianity was And it was particularly the Roman army, whose crucial and of which Constantine had to order to defeat Maxentius, but Christianity was pacifist. At literally than it would later the Gospels not to fight, not oneself in the pursuit gain by means of violence. So it's hard to imagine anything emperor becoming Christian support of his followers. Now that doesn't mean that of monk, interpreted the Gospels soldiers to put down It's clear that Constantine much as other emperors had Sun, or the genius of the divine pagan deity that brought Constantine, like all emperors, child a fortune, as someone who depended on fortune, and who to please whatever god it was What's unusual is that he would to be this sort of god, a leader victory in battle, a companion None of this would seem, at Christianity. The fact that not only does it for centuries later is just part of this event, or if not unexpected. Constantine was not ignorant. He's someone who had studied literate, knew Greek pretty literature. But nevertheless, he was He's not an intellectual, over philosophy books. He's a man of power, not a little cruelty And we can see that after his and indeed, I should point out accepted the Christian god, usurper, and he defeated him. But even after his victory, he respect, a totally committed the symbols of power His coins, for example, which propaganda and self-regard, his the earlier pagan deity the Invincible Sun. After a little while, you start Sun on one side of the coin and And only later in his reign Constantine's first substantive or as someone who favored the of Tolerance. The Edict of Tolerance or Edict Milan in 313 was jointly the Libanius, now the two The Augustus of the East, Augustus of the West. Libanius was a pagan. He did not share Constantine's enthusiasm, but all right. If he wanted to tolerate This was part of their-- I'm sorry. It's not Libanius. Libanius is a philosopher. Licinius. Licinius. Constantine and Licinius. Licinius was a pagan, but he was toleration. At this point, Christianity But in the west, Constantine do more than merely accept For example, he returned Diocletianic persecutions. He exempted the Church from gift, and allowed church to use the imperial so-called post system whereby go from one place to another, journeys and making the chargeable to the state. Constantine left the pagan and alone, for the time being at basilicas on its outskirts. One, Saint Peter's. The St. Peter's that stands of the Renaissance But the old church that was century was that And he also built the Both of these outside As we'll discuss, he also disputes involving the church. He never, however, completely marginalized the old religions. He emphasized the diversity He didn't require a single But by the time he died in 337, was such that perhaps as much embraced Christianity. And this brings us to a crucial that we'll be discussing semester, and that is what was conversion on the Church? Or beyond the mere event of 312, Church to go from persecuted to established majority? What explains Constantine's course of the Roman religious to do so permanently? For the Church, was this or a kind of Trojan horse gift be so tied to the official able to shake off Rome, bureaucracy to get back to its individual, powerful The era of Constantine Church in the world for and, indeed, beyond. This problem is is the church a who have their eyes fixed on universal society that is hard worldliness and engagement with life, death, and other It is Saint Augustine who is forcibly in terms of theory, but so, well, 75 years later. Externally, the Church adapted We can see this in terms conversion, as I said. Not only were 50% of the people, 337 when Constantine died, but Emperor Theodosius and his the population was at least The reasons for this success. In other words, how could gesture have such a Some of this has to do with adopt to the customs Some of it may have to do with religion of Rome and of the chief support. Those who held out against hand, people in the rural areas, fundamental beliefs tended to local deities, deities that water, and things like that. The army, for reasons I've Christianity is not, at first who fight for a living. And then the third group intelligentsia, particularly people who had a substantial and Roman philosophy, side of the old elite. Well, Constantine fell And after some small skirmishes, managed to defeat him Chrysopolis in 324. Licinius fled from the forces caught up with him, and This event, this Battle important in itself-- P-O-L-I-S-- important in itself was even showed Constantine the fortress city of Byzantium, Byzantium who is the ancestor would found there, And of course, modern twenty-first century Byzantium commanded a strategic east-west and north-south. It was the point of access Mediterranean. The Bosphorus is a narrow separates Europe from Asia. Byzantium, Constantinople, bank, the European side, but it channel by which anyone would the Black Sea. And since the Black Sea is the in effect, controls commercial, strategic, It also controls the route from Europe, into Asia, into, Asia Minor or the Asian part Byzantium is, therefore, of communication and, at the army can get to two of the most the Roman empire in a reasonable without having to commit or the other totally. It is not far from the Danube said, one of the points at Barbarian tribes and which the as its natural frontier. And Constantinople was also not frontier of the Roman Empire, which ran along what's now western Iran, and Iraq. It was the city, also, richest part of the empire. As we said, one of the problems later years, its later centuries was becoming richer, more The west was lagging behind, its commerce. Constantine wanted an eastern for economic reasons. For strategic reasons having to armies and the protection For economic reasons having administration. The city of Rome itself was enough since, of course, the around Rome. But Rome was the historical in the fourth century AD, its It would be too much to compare relationship between Portugal It's not quite that lopsided. But Brazil is a former They speak the language Yet on the world stage, Brazil important than Portugal, richer So whatever preeminence Portugal Lisbon, has within the world of take Lisbon to be the be all and cultural world. So similarly, by this time, Rome even within the western And this relocation of the relocation of the capital to because it shows us result of the Tetrarchy. As we've said, Diocletian's the sense that the emperors and caesars would not cooperate. And such a scheme was But the division of the Empire something that would eventually Its first traces are with reason why we begin the It is also something that without the addition Constantine ruled over He did not divide it himself, conceptual, and eventually real, creating a new Rome, a new of Byzantium, a town that he Constantinople, as this town was a new Rome. Like Rome, it would have a spaces; it would have races It would have imperial palaces victory columns, triumphal panoply of classical It wouldn't have a whole Churches would be more important that Constantine totally Constantinople. But these were not the It is an ideological statement imperial sites. So we could compare it to, in Petersburg, created by the czars statement, with a certain kind look evoking western Europe Or Versailles, not a town at palace city fit for the At this point, Constantine devout and somewhat We start to see him interact its most intimate way, that Constantine is appealed to by well, we're calling or heretics, as they be, from North Africa. The Donatists taught that the scriptures under persecution at not legitimate priests. And we'll talk later about The implications, briefly, are for priests, that the office is If the man has committed a sin, treason, the handing over persecutors, he no longer can can perform the sacraments Donatism, then, implies that just as good as the character The Donatists were strong in to Constantine against decisions against them within The fact that Christians are already, as early as 317, shows emperor as a Christian But it also shows a kind of, intermingling of what be church and state. Similarly, Constantine would get over the relationship between and Christ, the Son. This, too, we'll go into in more Arian heresy-- Arian with an &quot;i,&quot; named after a priest named Arius Christ is God, he is, subordinate to God the Father. This is a controversy over the Christ is seen as coming from And as I think I warned at the you don't like doctrinal and try to spare you all its ins and this course without it. Again, what we're talking about of Arianism, who embraced it, Emperor gets involved in On the one hand, this shows the Church to imperial rule. On the other hand, because neither the Donatist nor the definitively, and at least not was for an emperor who could rivals, who could control this the Tigris and Euphrates, but African peasants to obey his Egyptian priests either. Constantine, we can see, You can see in the reading from in dealing with this The usual way being the emperor people, he appoints some make a decision, and then the people that that's what The problem is that, of course, Donatists were already Threatening them with with torture, denouncing them, awe-inspiring power of the going to be sufficient. Nevertheless, Constantine, far in frustration, becomes more and if not officially Christianize as a Christian emperor. By 330, he has come to see emperor who has a kind of god that is following him, but mission of the Church. So for example, he starts married men having ineffective-- or the seduction of wards by rape by burning, all orientation crimes that shows a more the more easygoing Constantine favors the church, by the church, favors the presides over the first of the Church called at Nicaea Constantinople, the Ecumenical deal with the Arian And here, we see Constantine as emperor merely the companion of God, but the emperor sense, head of the Church. Constantine appears at the the bishops. Nevertheless, he is not He is not himself, however able to legislate by himself Because unlike many and certainly when you'll see the contrast-- the political leader of the designated leader of the Church because he is not a designated leader of the church Certainly, it's not yet It is the collectivity of then some bishops have more Nevertheless, this is the we have a blending, but not a rule, imperial rule, on the church rule on the other. And that's one of the things our image of the Middle Ages, and the state were overlapping Constantine in relation to Differences and similarities. Obviously, their similarities Both Diocletian and Constantine Empire as a much more tightly bureaucratically complicated more militarized state. Constantine continued administrative structure. Like Diocletian, in order to very heavy taxation. If anything, his taxation had exempted the Church and its to have to make up But Diocletian had persecuted Constantine would favor it. And that is, of course, On the other hand, even here Under Diocletian, the The emperor was a distantly He was no longer, even in just like you and me, anything like that. But this was also true Constantine, too, had a because of his association semi-sacred status. He couldn't be worshipped as a something a bit more than Christianity. Constantine ended the Tetrarchy, the seal on the division of the we've just said, by the Constantinople. And finally, Constantine was economically. Diocletian did not have the who had a certain amount from that he was able And also, by virtue of his able to rule pretty tightly The fourth century often is seen because we're focused-- we-- historians are focused on Empire in the late But obviously, people in 337, died, did not know that Empire would collapse. They did not know that in 410 plunder the city of Rome, no idea of what's going to happen From their point of view, the The Empire, which had been century by invasions, inflation, control, chaotic imperial It was clear who the The barbarians had been pushed Trade, culture, civilization And if we trust the impressions contemporaries, both formal, things like the slogans that room mosaics, for example, good This seems to be the And I emphasize this because, history cannot be seen from You can't use hindsight people should have felt. People in the fourth century were optimistic. No more so those people who had the coming thing, as the but of success. What is odd is, of course, that would have seemed Christianity would have seemed And even if some emperor of its own, his own, it wouldn't been the most favorable context of the Empire. And indeed, of course, the within a century and a half Christianity. And it's no surprise, then, that the Roman Empire, Edward Gibbon, of the Roman Empire sort of sets like this one. It's no accident that Gibbon fall of the Empire. But indeed, in the fourth Christianity was one had saved the Empire. And not only that, as we will much of what was preserved from successive problems of the would be preserved through Thanks very much.