We're out here in Lorne on the Great Ocean Road at this beautiful property with a nice view and we're going to be building a fire pit down the bottom of these steps, down there and I'm going to take you through the process of how we do it. This one's going to be a circular fire pit with some seating using recycled railways sleepers and it's going to be down where that blue paint can is, down the bottom and all that garden bed is going to be lawn, so it should be a nice transformation So, the first thing we want to do is mark out everywhere that we're going to be digging, for the fire pit. So we know that our bowl is going to be 700mm diameter. So we'll do a 350mm radius around this stake which has got a nail in there, so you can hook your tape measure around it, and then, hold the spray paint at 350mm So that's the size of our fire pit bowl, and we want to be at least 900mm further back, so the radius of the seating circle is going to be 1250. That's 900, plus half the bowl, 350, 1250 so go back to 1250 So that's where the seat will be. The front of the seat So if you're sitting here, nicely, the fire's there It's a good distance away, so no matter how big the fire gets, you should be pretty safe, you can still reach in to toast marshmallows The seat depth is going to be 450mm, so You go back to the 1250 and add 450, so that's 1700 Same deal again, so this is that back of the seat And then, we're using the recycled railways sleepers so there 130mm thick, so then we go back another 130, so 1830 and that'll be the back of our wall which sits behind the seat. That's it. So you can see this section here will be 130mm wide sleepers which will come up like a back rest then we have the seat here which will be 450mm deep and 450mm high which is going to have sleepers on the front with decking boards as the seat and there's a gap, and then your fire pit in the middle now we need to dig it out! This is where we got up to yesterday with the fire pit, and you can still see in the centre there, the blue paint where we're going to have the fire pit sitting, and we've dug out that first line that we marked which will be where the front of the seat is, and then around the outside you can still see a little bit of the blue marking there which is where the back of the seat will be And we've also got these sleepers cut ready to go in that trench we've dug and we'll get that concreted in today And then once that concrete is concreted in, we'll dig the second bit. We didn't want to dig it all in one go because it's all a solid bit of concrete. You'd have to use about 30% more concrete, rather than doing it here What we've done, is you fill that in with concrete and then that'll go off, then we'll dig the next trench and it'll all be good to go, without caving in We've got our first three in here, and they're held together by this scrap bit of timber, and we're just going to continue to do three at a time, or two extras now that we've got this one in place So we'll put one in there, get that level grab another one, and once they're both level just chuck another piece of timber across the top, shoot them off, and then on to the next one So here it is, all braced up, the first section ready for concreting So they've all been measured 1250 from that stake there. Starting to look pretty good even just with these ones in. So we'll concrete these ones in, this is an entrance here. and we'll finish that off once we do the ones around the outside which will be the backrest So once that concrete goes off, tomorrow we'll start digging out the rest of it It's all concrete in now, and as I said, we'll let that go off, and then start digging out the second trench tomorrow which will be for the backrest Once we dig that out, the soil's not going to collapse. So it would've been stronger if we had've dug out the whole lot in one go, but it's unnecessary to be that strong, it's strong enough as it is. It would've been an extra cube of concrete in there. It's going to be strong enough. It's going to all be tied together with the frame of the seat so, don't need to get extra concrete up here if we don't need it. So, there's this return here, at the entry We're going to have to rip one for that, but that'll look pretty nice. Even like this it's pretty good, it'll look pretty impressive once the seat goes on Had a pretty good day yesterday, we go the trench dug for the outside perimeter of the fire pit. That's where the backrest goes. And while we were digging that, the irrigation came on and filled the trench up so that wasn't ideal, but made it easy diggin The concrete's due later today. Dave and Amanda are just finishing off the last few and you can see we're bracing it differently to the way we did the base ones because we had the braces sitting on top of them but that obviously can't happen with the jagged edges so, just a little brace in between, and then a holding one, back to front so that the taller ones can't fall back. And then once it's concreted in, then we can build the frame, internally of the two rows of sleepers for the decking boards to sit on Just about there with the fire pit in Lorne, so I thought I'd show you the way we did the joists. Originally I was going to some 90x45 just 200mm piece, all attached individually along the back and the inside for the decking boards to attach to, but then I woke up at 5am one morning with this idea of using composite decking because it's a bit more flexible than normal timber, so that wrapped around nicely, and we've just doubled that up so that we've got plenty of joist to screw on to for the decking boards. You can see they're starting to get on there. Once we get them all on, we'll work out the centre line again, and then mark it and cut it, so that they're all consistent so, should be pretty soon Now we've got the boards all cut in, so now we've got to trim the front off so it's got a nice curve to it. It'd be impossible to do that individually. So we've rigged up this little contraption here *SQUAWK* We've got this bit of timber running across, and I've screwed it from the bottom so that then we can put a decking board on top *SQUAWK* *SQUAWK* and then... C'mon Cocky! And then this... the decking board will be at the same height as the top of the seat So, I'll work out the centre again, put a screw through there and we've drilled a hole in this decking board bigger than the screw, so it slides easier, and then this end we drilled another hole for *SQUAWK* the pencil to sit through, and the bottom of the pencil is poked out the bottom and there's a screw in there to make sure the pencil can't move back and forward, so then it's as simple as just marking it, like that Then you could either just go along the line of that with your jigsaw and cut it all freehand Or we're going to try.... we've hooked up the jigsaw to this bit of timber. So we'll do the same thing we'll hook that up there, screw it through, and then hopefully we cut that swing it around, it should be the same diameter....hopefully I've got this jig set up I've followed it around to see if it's in the right spot and it looks pretty good, so I'm going to cut with the jigsaw on the jig, and see how we go Just gotta get the new blades I bought! I've got the new blades on and that should make it easier to cut, so away we go When I started cutting in, it started pushing the blade away I don't know if it's anything to do with the flexibility of the timber or the angle of the jigsaw, but I'm just gonna shelve that idea, go with the jigsaw by itself, with no jig and follow the pencil mark that we've done, and then we'll sand off the edges So there's the seat, all cut with the jigsaw and we also used a sander, just to take off the edges so they're a bit, not as sharp on the top and the bottom just in case you put your hands on the bottom Next thing we've gotta do is put the gravel in the centre and then I'm going to pick up the fire pit today to put in there Lawn goes in the rest of the area tomorrow and then this area will be all done So there it is, the complete product all done and looking pretty, fantastic I think So we cut the inside diameter, and then used a...................................... ....a um sander to soften off the edges and put the fire pit in, wood in there, ready to kickstart that and toast some marshmallows And I've just done the drone shots as well, so they'll be coming up next