These blobs compete for food by playing rock, paper, scissors. If you're not familiar rock beats scissors, scissors beats paper, and paper beats rock, for some reason. The blobs live for just one day, but the food they win from the game will be used to reproduce, that will play the same You might be thinking because creatures don't by playing rock, paper, but there are cyclical One example is the common There are three main that relate to how territorial they are. The orange throats are very aggressive and control large territories. This makes them out-compete whose territories are smaller. Blue throats out-compete which don't control a territory at all, but the yellow throats do well by sneaking into those larger territories, which are harder to defend. In this video, we're gonna use simulations to explore the possibilities Okay. Before we can run a simulation, we have to lay out the We'll start with a winner take all system, where the winner of the gets both mangoes and will and the loser gets no And if both blobs play the same strategy, they tie and they'll each get one mango, each producing one offspring. There are nine possible situations and we can specify all the rewards by putting them in a table, or a matrix if you want to The numbers in the matrix are the rewards for the blobs on the For example, a rock blob gets a reward of two, a scissors blob facing a rock All right, let's put 80 of and start the population Before we hit go, what do you think will happen Will it tend to stay balanced? Or maybe one of the or perhaps the population rock, paper, and scissors, or maybe something else. All right. Turns out scissors took over. That does seem a bit weird since it doesn't have So let's check by running another one. Okay, this time paper took over, so I guess it's just random. The changes in the so it's tough to see what's going on just using this bar graph since it only shows us what's It turns out there's for a situation like this, which will let us see the full We're gonna use this triangular graph, where any point inside the triangle specifies the fractions of A common name for this kind For me, this graph didn't It seemed like it had to be I think the easiest way to explain it is to start with a normal Cartesian graph. On this graph, the horizontal of paper players in the population and the vertical axis is the So this point is 100% Rock isn't on the graph, but it's whatever's left This point here is 100% scissors And this point down here is so 100% has to go to rock. So these three points form a triangle and the corners are states has completely taken over the population. Now, this point here is With any point on this line, the population is a mix of And similarly, points on the are also a mixture of two And any point on the interior And finally, any point outside of the since there would somehow of one of the strategies. Then if we rotate the it's still the same graph, just shaped like an equilateral triangle. So the strategies are All right, let's have another but this time using the ternary plot. Okay, pausing here. Rock has What do you think will happen next? With rock in the lead, and now they're in the lead, and actually rock is almost extinct. Next with paper in the lead, and nearly take over the And then paper goes extinct, to drive scissors to extinction as well. Next, let's run a bigger simulation to smooth out the randomness a bit. Instead of 80 trees, we'll have 800 trees and to make room on the and also to make my computer not explode, let's actually skip drawing the blobs. Okay, still some blobs. All right, so the same The populations spiral outward until all but one strategy is extinct and then there's no more change. In real life, though, there are mutations. So in these next simulations, there will be a one in 10,000 probability that it mutates into one What do you think will happen this time? With a small mutation chance, the results look pretty much the same, except for one key difference. Once one strategy takes over, there's eventually a mutation in the rock, paper, scissors cycle, and then that one takes over We could have seen this just by looking at the reward matrix. Whenever two of the same a player could benefit Since the strategies are a player can't just decide But whether a blob decides or just does so by mutation, So when the right mutation and invades the existing population. In game theory, there's where neither player It's called a Nash equilibrium. With these strategies, there so there's always a So none of the strategies can keep their hold on the population. The fancy terminology isn't but I wanted to at least mention it in case you hear it somewhere else. But if you do want a bit more detail, the last video on simulating got a bit more into the nitty gritty. Okay, so the simulations are interesting and a real biological system but we haven't yet found a setup where all three strategies at least not for very long the way it does with our lizard friends. So from here, there are The first one is to mess with the values in the reward matrix, and the second is to where blobs have a chance to instead of being destined All right, first, we'll One thing we can try is to make the outcome of Instead of the winner getting both mangoes and the loser getting none, let's see what happens when and the loser gets the remaining half. Now, the blobs can't but fractional mangoes get of producing an offspring. So there's a bit of luck blobs that eat one and a half mangoes will produce one and a half offspring. So what do you think will happen here? Will the populations be stable now? If so, why? And if not, why not? Okay, the results are about the same. It did take longer for the but in the end we still find where the strategies are Looking back at the reward matrix, even though the numbers are less extreme, it still has basically the same structure. So we see basically the same thing. All right, so another thing we could do is to add a cost to the ties. And the reason for this could be that when there's no clear winner, the blobs spend extra So even though they they're extra tired or and it hurts their reproduction chances. So what do you think I know by this time in the video, it's easy to just sit back but if you continue making predictions, you will learn a bit more. So what do you think? All right, it is a bit The population actually spirals inward. We could do a calculation here to see why, but I think an intuitive way is to notice that if the population rock players actually have This is similar to what researchers found in a population of common in a study from 1990 to 1995. The loop doesn't appear to be centered around an even mixture, where blue is the most common, So the reward matrix for the as our artificial rock, but the cyclical relationship Last, let's see what it looks like when we add mixed strategies. So far, blobs have had a single allele that tells them to play Instead, we'll give The alleles could be leading to 10 possible combinations. When it comes time to choose a strategy, they'll follow one of And when it comes time to reproduce, since the reproduction is asexual, the offspring will have as its parent, except that each allele For example, this brown for each strategy, and when it reproduces, the child's scissors allele making it an orange blob and two paper alleles. To keep track of how many are in the population, we'll Again, let's run four simulations at once and we'll also go back to and start out with an even What do you think will happen this time? Obviously we're looking at so maybe something interesting All right, so a few things here. First, we can see the same going from rock to paper And just like before, the and they get more and more The other interesting thing By playing an even mixture these blobs are aggressively neutral. It's impossible to come up with a strategy that beats them on average, to come up with a strategy The fancy game theory is weak Nash equilibrium. Like we said before, a neither player can benefit A weak Nash equilibrium is when a player won't be helped But even though it's a it's still a Nash equilibrium, the only one we've seen this video. Next, let's add the tie penalty What do you think will happen now? Before I actually ran the sim, I thought that the brown I was actually streaming myself and was confused in front of all 20 In the simulation with pure strategies, penalizing the ties to balance in the middle. And if we look closely, we can see the sims still tend to It's just that the whole rather than having one All right, one more set of simulations. This time we'll keep and mutation chance, but we'll have a different for each population. One, we'll start with 100% pure rock, one with 100% pure paper, and one with 100% of the And one last time, what for each of these? Okay, so the pure strategies and we see the same cycling we've been seeing this whole time, but the browns can resist mutations. Whenever a new mutation shows up, it can't get an advantage over the browns, but some of the members of the and get hit by that tie penalty more often than the browns do. Every mixture other than the browns does poorly against itself, So this brown evenly-mixed strategy is what we call an If you liked this video please consider supporting on Patreon. Patreon is my main so supporting there gives the confidence that I can keep creating these for free without needing to bring in a sponsor. In any case, thanks very much for watching and I'll see you next time.