Jonathan, I see people holding this book. It's talking about Talk to me. What is the great rewiring? So something happened to All of a sudden, their mental health and depression skyrocketed. Self-harm is up 150% Suicide is up 50%. Something happened and my argument in the book The first act is the loss It's what anybody over You were out with your There was nobody supervising. You had to learn how how to face adversity. So that's what kids hundreds of thousands of years. It's part of being a mammal. You play. You develop skills. We began to crack kids up in the '90s, So we're restricting what from the '90s through health doesn't collapse then. It's actually pretty stable. Then we get act two, of the phone-based childhood. And what that is is, in 2010, The iPhone had come out, but no front facing camera, no no high-speed data. And by 2015, everyone's Now, suddenly, everyone front-facing camera, social media, especially And almost like someone girls in America, and suddenly become very anxious, And so that's what Something changed and I'm trying to You're saying, in act Chekhov's cell phone, and-- Yeah. And we know what ends You look at, sort of, Yes. How dumb and stupid is [LAUGHTER] I would say not dumb I would say it's in the and it's still in So children have a brain, which By age six, the brain I'll fact check that. I don't think that's right. I don't think that's You must be right. Yeah, thank you. The rest of childhood It's about picking and which ones get eliminated. It's all about happens slowly in childhood. But then, around age puberty starts, a couple and you get this of the brain to into an adult configuration. It starts more in the The prefrontal cortex is And so around the emotional areas are rewiring. They have the beginnings They're very but they don't have to say, no, I'm not going to I'm just going to keep going JORDAN: When does that stop, to that happening soon? At, like, 47, 48? Like, when does that close off, and I can Well, in your say, but for most people-- [LAUGHTER] Buy the sequel. I get it. 25 is when the frontal OK. I'll tell you Well, it's interesting how only these phones come in, and and the way society thinks, but an anti-fragile child. And you make some bold claims is right here. You claim that this spinner is the greatest equipment ever invented. Defend yourself. JONATHAN HAIDT: OK. JORDAN: First of all-- [APPLAUSE] - OK. What is better? I mean, a teeter-totter. It's just a metaphor of you're It's what life is Work with somebody else. One's down. There's no way to Yeah, yeah, yeah. [LAUGHTER] The key-- OK. Well, I have no citations The psychological thing is thrills. This is something I talk a that kids need especially need risky play. Kids literally If you don't give them risk, They'll climb up on walls. They'll climb trees. If they skateboard, they'll Kids need to sort of-- need And so yes, you're right. A teeter-totter, and you could come crashing JORDAN: Why are you Well, because you have where they can get hurt because every day, how to not get hurt. And what we've done since in places that are so safe, which means they don't The human program of They're a little scared. They have to be They overcome it, and then time around, and that's the stopped that in the '90s. We said, no more of that. We're going to keep you and then we're going to send where you're coming ready for independent living. JORDAN: Now, you take you fast forward where kids are They're on the internet. They're on social media sites. Is there an argument, though, in which kids need to-- it's that they need to be exposed to I mean, this is the going to be born into anyway. Shouldn't they be that at an early age? In theory, yes, but let's We want them to learn Does that mean we a running start at age eight? There are certain not appropriate at that time. Just to be clear, This was not-- [LAUGHTER] This is-- that's theoretically. That was me. Hypothetically. Yes, yes. Ooh. So I've heard this before. In theory, why need to protect them but you're saying we more in the virtual world. Isn't that contradictory? Not at all. Not at all. Kids-- we're mammals. Kids need to be out putting their arms around each This is the way a You play outside. And when you put kids where everything goes as soon as you give they're going to use that-- around nine hours a day, and a lot of them, it's almost always checking. That blocks out time in Time with friends is Kids need time with friends. Texting and sending It's done instead of time with is why, as soon as they and the boys on to they got so lonely. Loneliness surged along JORDAN: It's interesting. You talk a little bit discover mode versus And even in a I did improv comedy forever, is a discovery mindset, right? And so you're constantly It was interesting, reading a child, and to put them but it seems remarkably feels right now, and I don't because of our connection and the anxiety that is there. But do you see that we are inadvertently because of these in our pockets and our hands? Well, right now, it is going to hell Oh, that's-- OK. Yeah. It's not just my But it wasn't that way. JORDAN: It wasn't that way. It wasn't that way in 2012. So the fact that this at the same time, say, oh, well, the That must be what it was. There were real Yeah, that was 2008. Why do the numbers until 2012, 2013, when better and better? So you can't make the claim in Obama's second term that, all of a sudden, suddenly fell off a cliff. That just doesn't work. So if this had all started in you know, COVID, and all the but this started in 2012. There's no other explanation for why it happened and hit girls the hardest. JORDAN: It was interesting. You have a chapter in here and I'm an atheist. I know you mentioned that but you speak to I think it's a A god-shaped hole in In every human heart. In every human heart, right? And that this lack of affecting childhood in a way. And again, as an atheist, up when that comes about. You said you were one. So you earned yourself a pass. JONATHAN HAIDT: OK. But this lack of in this modern do you see that as something So the way to think without getting defensive is-- JORDAN: Good luck. No. I've been working on this I finally got it down. OK. Just looking at psychologically, religious than non-religious people. That's been true just as married people are On average, your [LAUGHTER] But people need to be tied I'm a big fan of Emile He's my favorite When we're not tied in, but that doesn't make us happy. We have nothing We have no sense of meaning. It's like if you try to raise but just up in the air. It just can't be done. And so religious kids faith, rituals, community. They go to church every Sunday. The Jewish kids have shabbat. They literally can't use So they were always happier but what happens remarkable on all the graphs. The religious kids get a little The secular kids get much So what I'm saying if you're an to have to work much harder. You're going to intentional about stable social relationships. If you give them an iPad, and it's all this interacting with strangers, That's not a community. That's crazy making. It might just be easier to Then take away the iPad? JORDAN: I was going to say. That iPad is there. I do want to-- [APPLAUSE] You've written a lot of The book you wrote of the American Mind, looked at safetyism. It looked at the And now, what we see these protests I wonder, as somebody who and the ways in which students what you see now Yeah. So, you know, I don't want of the protest. This is a complicated issue. I respect people on all sides. We all agree-- agree students have constitutionally protected, One is the protest, and my co-author, first noticed of speakers, the activism illiberal, and it and it was stopping It was based on arguments about my mental health, We can't let this because it'll be dangerous. It'll be harmful. Speech is violence. So that's a new idea because they haven't been They've been given They think So we see that it wasn't there in 2012. It was very new in 2014, 2015. And so the protesters now-- I don't know the one thing I read this morning. Someone sent me a quote where she was in and she said, if much about my mental health, and do all the things Yeah, Harvard, do these because That's something new, going to get them very going forward, once [APPLAUSE] I read this book. I want to do this right. How do I helicopter What are some tactical things Well, you just push them No. OK. Sorry. Learn how to fly, right? That's that antifragile. That's right. For birds, it works. I guess not for us. OK. So the key thing Even though a lot of my is very dark about things are of ways, but this in a year or two because the is that we're trapped in It's a collective action trap. The reason why we to give our kid a smartphone is because everyone else did, dad, I'm the only one. I'm being left out. So we're all doing that, and spending so much time is because everyone else I have to know So we're all trapped in this. What that means is that, we can escape together. So I propose in the book-- but four norms that will break First, no smartphone Just clear this of elementary and Send them out. Give them a flip a phone watch so but don't give them the strangers all over the to get at them sexually. This is just craziness. So no smartphone The second is no The things that are sent around they're exposed recently learned in a blender, which was JORDAN: I don't know-- It is exactly-- it is exactly what This is just part of childhood. It's hardcore porn, animal So let's just at least 16 before they see that stuff. JORDAN: I was going to say, to watch a cat in a blender. Is that 16 It's like, oh, and, hey, why don't you Yeah. What I'm after here is It's what's a could actually all do together, If most of us do this, The third norm is This is the most powerful So if you're watching this, go to a school that the phone in the of my book for the principal. No. I have videos. Send them a video of my Every school needs to go The phones, they the kids anxious and lonely. They make them Test scores have been dropping Once the kids bring a phone They're not listening So get rid of And then the fourth independence, free in the real world. We have to-- so this is not take away. It's let's give them a of childhood that the kind that we look back on. [APPLAUSE] So if we love our children, is a real human childhood. And if we do it done in the next year or two. JORDAN: I love it. Just give your kids some space, and they should be OK. [LAUGHTER] It's a fascinating read, The Anxious Generation Jonathan Haidt.