Are you all set up for the ambush? The trench was dug overnight last night. Let them ambush Give What tricks is Aoki playing? There's no movement at all The little devil can't see I'm going to rescue Dong'er. etc . Look carefully Below the area where Dong'er was hung All the grass is floating The devil must have set a trap Hidden inside Walk Prepare to take cover It seems our ambush has been discovered. Damn Wolf Warrior Wolf Warrior is Aoki Rei I'll lead him to shoot you get him out Be careful Major, how are you? Six children are brought to the top Yes Be careful The others follow me. Yes Yes Keep up Don't hide, rush forward Grenade Throw Fight the Captain Not a good fighter, Wolf Brother Winter Danger Stop Wolf Warrior This woman is in my hands. Come out quickly If she doesn't come out, I'll feed her to the snakes. Wolf Warrior I'm trying to hold Aoki back. Are you going to save Dong'er? good Come out quickly If you don't come out, I'll let you go. Walk I'm letting go stop Four Joys Lead the team Yes Release the Major Let Dong'er go first. Did you hear that? Stop talking nonsense and let him go. Let him go quickly! Put that woman down. yes Winter Don't move If you move again I'll kill her. Release the Major Let's release them together Let the people behind you back off Let your people step back too Back Let him go The pile took Dong'er away Winter Hurry up Go fast beat Catch up The pile is fast, take Dong'er with you. Hiding Go fast Report to the Eighth Route Army that they took that woman away That woman is not important. The important thing is to kill the Wolf Warrior and chase him for me. yes Dong Er Dong Er Hang in there, Dong'er Winter, hold on Fast Fight Fast Fight beat Give me a rush Big Sword Team Follow me kill Pile K Dong'er is fine. The pile is there. The pile is there. Brother Wolf and I are here to save you. It's alright Don't be afraid Captain Pile has gone far away Don't fight , withdraw quickly. Walk Come Major Major Aoki withdraw Major, are you okay? Retreat Retreat Go away quickly Quick Stop chasing Let's catch up with the pile. Go go go go Dong Er Dong Er Hang in there, Dong'er Roof Wolf Warrior How's Wolf Warrior? I injured Aoki Rei. Come and help you. No, no, I can do it myself. Stop talking too much It will be troublesome if the devils catch up with us soon Hurry back to the detachment to treat Dong'er's injury Walk fast, walk, walk, walk Dong'er, hold on, Dong'er quick beat What's going on? Hurry, hurry, take a look and go quickly The fight started Wolf Warrior Go Go Go Let's go Go fast Going Around Strengthen vigilance and prepare for a breakout yes It's a sniper rifle. Could it be that Aoki found this place? Everyone, don't move. Let's find out what's going on inside. It's Wang Fugui That kid is going to run He must have brought the Japanese here. I'm going to catch him Wait for the pile There's no point in arresting him. The priority now It is to rescue Mrs. Zhou and the children. Walk male Major is leaving Let's go Walk Major, hurry up! Major, be careful Major, please walk up quickly. Mrs . Zhou Aunt Xue Roof Auntie Xue Let him run away Yukiko I want to go back to find Xuezi Let me go That's my son Let me go Let me go, let me go Major Dong Er Dong Er Wolf Warrior Where is Dong'er? I don't know Oh no, she must be chasing Aoki Let's go find her. If I quit, I'm afraid something might happen to her. Wang Ai takes good care of the children Let's go, pile Be careful quick This woman is yours . Carry her in yes Let me go, let me go, let me go Let me go Aoki Rei I'll Kill You Let's go, they are coming after us. Major I want to go back Let me go Hidden Winter Go check it out Why hasn't the car arrived yet? Go check it out Winter Take the Major away! Go, go, go, go Help the Major get in the car! Major, get in the car! Dong Er Dong Er Aoki Rei father stop Don 't be afraid, plum Dad will take you back. I brought you the picture. Let the child go. Picture father What are you doing? I've already given you the picture. You are also a military man. This is so unreasonable . Who do you think Taijun is? I'll click on you later. Go to hell and reason with me. You thought you got the picture? You can find the golden This idiot doesn't understand. you you Taijunhe, I can take you there But I have a condition Who do you think you are? How dare you negotiate terms with Taijun? speak I'll take you to Jinbuhuan You let the child and me go. Can father Plums, etc. What to do This person is too cunning. We'll let him lead the way later. Put her at the back of the line. That way he'll be honest. good Wang Fugui God is watching what you do Aren't you afraid of being struck by thunder? Ma Sang, you lead the way. Stop talking too much and lead the way quickly Don't be afraid, Meizi. Take her to me. Walk Be honest Play tricks on me The lady has gone into the woods, so you better follow her . Be honest Don't play tricks. Don't move Don't move. Don't move. Where are the people? Ma Changqing ran away Where are the people? Run away beat Who are you I was sent by your uncle to rescue you. Uncle San is here Come hold me tight Come help uncle Get up and fight! withdraw Walk Old Eight Guns Big Brother Protect me fast Plum Plum plum Meizi, are you okay? My uncle took me flying just now, it was so fun Yeah Ma, take good care of Meizi I'm going to help Pi San Be careful. withdraw Third Brother Pi San Follow Dad Quick Cover Pi San Third Brother Brother Pi Sansan Three Brother Pi Sansan I avenged my brother. Three children, three children Pi San Three Third Brother Pi San Third uncle Third uncle Uncle Uncle, wake up! Third uncle and third son Third uncle, wake up, third uncle What's going on? Fell into a pit Everyone get off Get off the car and be on guard Push the car out for me . Push hard! Come on, a few more people 319781 beat Everyone went to support Walk hidden N Who is it? Wolf Warrior, why are you here? Are you okay, Doctor He? It's ok, comrades. The brothers are here Someone hijacked the car The pile takes Dr. He away quick Be careful beat Quickly reduce the group Walk fast Everyone chase me Wolf Warrior I'm fine Wang Ai Hurry and take Dr. He back to the detachment. No, I won't go. It's too dangerous. Xiao Li Cover them and walk fast Let's go together Let's go Captain, what's wrong with you? Captain, are you okay? team leader It's okay, I'm still alive, call me Yes, fight team leader Walk Captain, are you okay? fine Wolf Warrior Wolf Warrior Captain Wolf Warrior fainted What happened to Wolf Warrior? Wolf Warrior Wolf Warrior, wake up, Wolf Warrior Big Mouth Send Wolf Warrior back to the detachment quickly! good Captain, you should leave too. No, I 'll go with you guys. Don't worry, I can handle it. Stay with me in a row Si Xi led the captain to leave quickly no Captain, please go. Go, go! Go fast beat Wolf Warrior Wolf Warrior Pile of Wolf Warriors Captain Captain Zhuanzi, take Zhanlang back to the detachment immediately What about you? I'm worried about Liuzi Then Sixi and I will go to meet them. Hello, Captain. Be careful. Go! Go fast, too late to go fast Four Joys Walk The platoon leader is out of bullets. Is there anyone else? there is none left Draw the sword The Japs fought with them. kill They're out of bullets. Charge me. Rise up the starving slaves stand up Six Sons Six Sons Six Sons Six, wake up! Six, wake up! Come Six Sons Six Sons Six Sons Keep up Wolf Warrior There are two Japanese soldiers, each of us takes one Wait back There are sentinels hiding It seems that the Japanese are becoming more and more cautious. Be careful when you move the pile Wolf Warrior Preparation help me arrow Prepare Go Go Go Be careful Captain Wang Aijie and the others have been gone for so long Why is there no news yet? They must be waiting for the best time. Don't worry, they have rich combat experience. It's going to be alright. There's nothing unusual on the devil's side Captain, they are safe. That's good But we still can't take it lightly Comrades, let's cheer up. Always be ready for battle yes Withdraw, withdraw, withdraw Oops, I got discovered. Go, go, go, go, go beat Aim at the two machine guns and shoot hard Don't stop, hit me hard What's going on? The artillery camp was attacked Where is it There Send me the order to prepare for launch Let them know how powerful our artillery is. yes Door beat The enemy's firepower was attracted to us. As soon as the cannon explodes, we will retreat. Yes It's up to you next. good Keep Calm Boy, it's OK. Good job, sharpshooter. Walk away Captain Hu, Wolf Warrior Destroy all the enemy's artillery Comrades, withdraw Get out! Get out! Fellow villager We are from the Eighth Route Army Armed Workers' Team Come and collect food and open the door Open the door, fellow. We are from the Eighth Route Army Armed Workers' Team The Eighth Route Army Harvest grain quickly Come in, come in Good good good The old man opened the door Fellow villager opens the door We are the Eighth Route Army. Open the door, fellow All done alright Go to the next Fellow The Eighth Route Army Armed Workers' Corps harvested grain Open the door, fellow You are from the Eighth Route Army Armed Work Team Yes, the Eighth Route Army Armed Workers' Team Do you have food? What are you going to do? What are you doing? You, let me go bring it on open Let me go It's the devil It's really a narrow road for enemies to meet. Prepare for battle There are at least twenty people here. I don't know if there are any other places in the village. What should we do with so few people? Oops beat There are eight roads beat retreat Quick retreat Quick Rush into the alley quickly quick Give me a chase Chase Fast Such strong firepower They encountered the devils and moved forward at full speed Quick Catch up Lao Hu Slow down, old man Come with me Wait a moment Wang Ai hurried back to report the news They were injured and couldn't run far. The devil can't catch us I won't give up. Go find some reinforcements. Is it too far to make it? rest assured I'll hide them first. Delay for a while So fast Take good care of him Walking fast Hurry up, hurry up, catch up Go quickly Hurry up Wolf Warrior Hurry up! Come in quickly Comrades, follow me this way quick Come Come Come in quickly Slower Come in quickly, come in quickly, come in quickly Quick, quick, quick Hao Lianchang Hide it well Old Sun, you have to be careful. I'm fine, they can't catch you. I won't do anything to you. good Wang Ai Wolf Warrior Not good What's wrong We encountered the devils in the village They disguised themselves as civilians and killed people everywhere Captain, Captain, several of them were injured. Hidden by the village militia We have to find them quickly. Don't worry. How many people are they It's not clear yet At least dozens of them. Four Joys of the Pile Look ahead Report back if there is any situation Did you find any? Report to the commander, I can't find it anywhere. They are injured and can't run far. Continue Search yes Wait back This gang of Eighth Route Army is cunning and sly. It must have been hidden. Go and get all the people in this village Focus here. Go quickly Go over there quickly. Over there quickly hurry up Go faster devil Go back and report to Wolf Warrior What are you doing? Don't walk impulsively. Walk fast. Go quickly Past Past Stand up quickly What are you going to do? Stand still Wolf Warrior Roof Wolf Warrior How is the situation in the village? There are devils guarding every exit of the village. The common people are almost They were all gathered in the square. Are you familiar with the terrain of Zhuangziwangzhuang? Ambush in the village first Find a way to kill their leader first But they all wore common people's clothes I can't tell which one is the chief. You observe carefully As long as the one giving the orders is their superior Go ahead Others follow me. yes I wear this dress I'm afraid you don't recognize it, do you? We are the Imperial Army of the Empire of Japan For the sake of being friendly So we wear this outfit Get closer to the Chinese people But I'm actually here In this village Discovery of the hidden Eighth Route Army Just now These Eighth Route Army murdered We the warriors of the Japanese Empire This is a crime This crime is not allowed Forgiven by our Great Japanese Empire I tell you Hand over these Eighth Route Army soldiers otherwise I killed everyone in this village. Be honest Walk quick Don't say whether My patience is limited Dr. Ho's Four Joys You go from that side Big Mouth took the two brothers over there Good walk Others follow me How are you? Are you okay ? Be patient Captain Hao, I have to go up and take a look. Lao Hu, I will go to the Eighth Route Army with you No, Lao Hu Let's go together No way You two This one is the reconnaissance company commander of the large force. One is a military district staff officer I, Hu Dashan, can't let you take risks again. Besides, there are wounded people who need to be taken care of. You stay here I can go up alone. No one is allowed to leave until I come back, Lao Hu Stop arguing. Stop arguing. Beijing is settled. Protect them good I see you guys are not going to tell me, are you? Wait till I turn all of you into households. I can slowly find someone alive. Ready to Shoot Slow down I am the militia captain of this village. What do ordinary people know? I know everything about the Eighth Route Army You let them go and I'll tell you everything. very good Tell me where the Eighth Route Army is hiding In the dry well at the south end of the village You are cunning and crafty The bastard is very dishonest Our people are guarding the south of the village. No one I'm telling the truth. If you don't believe me, you can go and see for yourself. Captain Sun Captain Sun Captain Sun Back Back I wonder who dares to go forward. Are you telling the truth? It's the same whether you say it or not You can kill me Killed the whole village There are so many people in China Can you kill them all and defeat them? You little devils won't be able to run rampant for many days Your end is coming soon. Bastard ready to shoot etc. Aren't you looking for the Eighth Route Army? I am coming Let them tie me up Let the people go. Come on, tie him up. Let the people go Release I'm going to beat them all to death. You fart Run, run! quick Go, go, go , go Quick Old Sun Old Sun Old Sun Wolf Warrior Lao Hu Captain Hu, are you okay? Captain Sun It's okay, it's Old Sun. team leader I can't bear him team leader There's a walkie-talkie. Walkie-talkie Is this just a squad of devils? Can you use the walkie-talkie to communicate with the devils? If there is no damage, it is ok To bring them all here. Solved in the village Where is the Sixi walkie-talkie? Walk over there Wang Ai, go and fetch all the wounded. In the cellar of Old Sun's house yes Reporting to the Captain that we have made contact with the reconnaissance team. Did they complete the mission? They are carrying out their mission in Wangzhuang I hope we can meet them there. map go ahead yes Distribute all the Japs' ammunition. Yes, soon. Big Mouth Wolf Warrior Take some brothers over there. good Come and go Doctor He Take some brothers over there. Good walk Hurry up! Hurry up! You take some people over there. Come with me The other people went back home to hide. Thank you thank you thank you I'm home. I'm home. team leader We get there Let's go hurry up Walk quick Inoue Sir, please look Wolf Warrior Is everyone okay? It's okay. It's okay. Roof Bring people to burn all the bodies Remember to clean up the blood. Lest the devil find out They will come for revenge good quick Lao Hu I didn't expect you guys have more than just a Wolf Warrior There's a sharpshooter hiding. Good boy Okay, clean up the battlefield. It's to clean up the battlefield. Not bad, awesome, awesome, awesome Lieutenant Colonel Could it be that the reconnaissance team encountered the Eighth Route Army? Very likely The reconnaissance team is in disguise Even if you encounter the Eighth Route Army Should also be able to break through How come they all disappeared? It was easily discovered. That is to say They all disappeared This shows that the Eighth Route Army attaches great importance to this The more this shows that our plan is very effective It's time Notify them to hold a combat meeting immediately yes