7:00 am--the alarm rings, the President wakes, warm Monday morning in Washington DC. First up is a walk across the hall to the a team led by long-time executive chef Cristeta Also provided are reading materials--a packet curate to include the news that, these days, and as the person. In addition to the biggest national and international include those from his home state of Delaware. But minutes later, the President walks upstairs floor. Nestled on its northeast corner is a small out with trainer Drew Conteras--one of the Quick shower, quick change, and it's 9:00 the West Colonnade to the fabled Oval Office. in 2023. Even excluding attributable costs borne by at its lowest in years, this figure translates per minute, meaning spread out evenly, before taxpayer has paid three-quarters of a millions sum, but one that could be worth it depending The most crucial role of the President happen quickly. Therefore, they have to already be informed and reach their desk. That's why almost every day starts with Briefing. On this Monday, the 13th of February 2023, she might need to stand in for Biden at moment's included, having made the far longer commute The central document of these meetings is agencies, summarizing what they think the described as the "most highly sensitized Clearly then, there is zero chance the public but the CIA did declassify some--the most final day of the Ford Administration. It starts with a summary of protests against effect it was having on President Anwar Sadat's he was assassinated four years later. Next is coverage of stalling peace talks on Germany and France, news about an upcoming stalled price negotiations within OPEC, a and finally a status update on tensions in The report's short, the points brief, but to be the generalist, not the specialist. Next Biden meets with his brand-new Chief This role is tough to define because it's the Chief of Staff is essentially the manager all the operations of the President and their and therefore it tends to be one of the most nation on earth, and yet its holder is rarely But quickly, a minor crisis: Speaker of the confidence in Architect of the Capitol Brett This is an even less-known position leading responsible for some 2,500 employees and an But Blanton was facing mounting pressure as a series of missteps--he had accrued 19,000 use of his government-issued vehicle, even the taxpayer an estimated $12,500 in additional He also outfitted the vehicle with lights enforcement officer; invited friends in for was closed to visitors early in the pandemic; on January 6th, 2021, as the building he oversaw McCarthy was the most powerful voice asking so in such a public manner, it was time for Now, we don't know the exact details of the minute-by-minute details of a President's not a matter of public record--we get what's only includes what the White House wants us public or press. Mondays include few of those. They tend to be fairly boring--nobody really so no matter the administration, archives traveling, Mondays overwhelmingly focus on that we, the public, don't get to know the You see, the White House Office of Appointments non-classified government documents, eventually, granted by the Freedom of Information Act. Still, there's a FOIA exemption restricting then there are months or years of processing understanding we have of a President's day On a similar, boring Monday in February, Bush, Oval Office by 6:58 and immediately jumped before his 8:00 AM daily briefing. After was another quick huddle before loading river to Mount Vernon for a ceremony commemorating then the President was back in the Oval Office The rest of the day was a continued cascade of which a 19-minute conference with the Prime to the day's announcement that the country Finally, the Monday wrapped up with a small to commemorate Black History Month--before Diplomatic Reception Room at 6:37 PM. February 13th, 2023 likely looked rather similar meetings with key administration officials, week, with the exception of making a decision That clearly happens quickly because, by 3:00 Finally, the last task the public knows about him that, after decades of waiting, he would in the Vietnam War. As usual, the President returned to the Residence and a read of a collection of ten letters sent to him by the general public--an unexceptional The rest of the week, however, would lead his Presidency. Tuesday: slightly busier. It begins with the Daily Briefing and a call celebrate the day's announcement that flag American-made Boeing aircraft. Elsewhere in the West Wing, press slowly amble The White House originally told them to arrive morning their call-time was pushed to 9:30--while wanted them on-hand when the month's inflation it unnecessary after a tip-off that the numbers Inflation wasn't slowing as fast as they'd news with a surprise presidential statement, But there was still plenty for the press that to one of the most powerful people on earth, at the White House. Three main areas are dedicated to the press: behind, and the so-called pebble beach: this two-dozen television networks have a near-permanent If you've seen a report from the building, essentially requires it--no longer allowing before. Now, these journalists are collectively represented While they have no codified rights, by tradition, the public image of a president, the White press access to the facility. But considering there are thousands of association gets access to what based on the practical For example, it would be entirely impractical the President at all times, but some of the times: if not, we would not have as confident like 9/11 or the attempted assassination of perspectives. So, each day, top association members take pool: typically composed of a collection of TV correspondent and crew, a radio reporter, The wire reporters and photographers provide the case of AP and Reuters, is essentially journalist is tasked with writing pool reports email list. Tuesday's designated pool reporter was Shirish everyone that the pool was in their vans at with the President. Waits in vans are a constant for the press President is ready to depart, and today's indicated the President walked into his limo anyone at the destination knows to get ready Further reports circulate who's riding with then a two-minute warning informing recipients a reporter watching back at the White House cut to a live shot of the speech. Essentially the moment the speech ends, another one of the most crucial elements: color. The rest of the press corps can watch the an idea of its content, but it's tougher reaction: that's why reports often include Biden's remarks against assault rifles and The corps even gets information on Biden's his trademark Aviator sunglasses stepping But quickly, the travel pool scrambles to about to start. Now, given the question and answer format, forward, the more likely they'll get called The front seats also give a better shot talking Even just getting a seat at all is a big deal on the busiest days, and bestows the right That's why the Correspondents Association the seating chart essentially acts as a year-by-year organizations. In 2008, city papers like the LA Times, Chicago in the rear. As the economics of print grew more challenging, a White House correspondent, these seats started Daily Beast or Buzzfeed. Today's chart includes more outlets than of splitting seats--allowing them to trade But the prime seats in the first and second still fully dedicated to legacy media organizations Shortly after the briefing concludes, the that the White House has no more planned public that day, and therefore that reporters can Wednesday was more of the same--internal economy, then an early 3:50 PM lid. Thursday, a little more: at 9:00 AM, the President to Maryland's Walter Reed medical center According to a letter released later that in 2022, has occasional issues with gastroesophageal compared to before his foot fracture in 2020, was a "healthy, vigorous, 80-year-old male, of the Presidency." The President returns to the White House at out informing the Press that finally, after of recent shoot-downs of unidentified aerial Once that was done, at 5:15, the President movie "Till" in the White House's theater, with that, a lid was called at 5:30, finishing busy weekend. By Friday, February 17, the week was winding Without any public availability on the docket office came in the form of press releases. Then, at 3:18 in the afternoon, a press lid. Oddly though, for a light day and a weekend stay in DC, rather than making their regular In retrospect, though, we know it was due day where advisors and Biden decided to add trip. Despite an impending departure, the Bidens the two attend mass at Georgetown, then take Closing the night, they head to dinner at area, but the image effect they might have debate they set off by both ordering the same By 8:00 PM, they're back at the White House. For the president though, the night had just It's 3:30 AM--without any notice or fanfare, House, turning what had been a rather standard Normally, when a president heads to Joint so by helicopter--it's safer, it's quicker, DC residents. But Biden's not supposed to be traveling, residence, and a fleet of five Marine One Within an hour, the President's airborne. Accompanying him is an unusually small traveling a security detail, a medical team, and just Not only is the press pool for the trip Journal's Sabrina Siddiqui and the AP's on delay, as each handed over their cell phones While abnormal, there is some precedent here. For the sake of image and morale, presidents Typically, these are kept under wraps. The planning of President Trump's 2019 trip that when he left Mar-a-Lago some of his secret On President Trump's trip too, only a precious phones, and plane windows were blacked out. Until Biden though, no American president American troop presence, or even a safe air Slipping into war-torn Ukraine without the force, without direct American air support, an extreme risk, but a risk deemed by the by his security personnel, best minimized brute force. This cloak-and-dagger planning extended to flies, too. Normally, Air Force One--the call sign reserved assigned to one of these easily distinguishable But because these are exclusively used by In fact, it was a photo of an airborne VC-25 Trump's secret trip to the Middle East in Learning from this slip up, Biden and team Unlike the VC-25, if a C-32 was spotted, it vice president, or a cabinet member, not necessarily of high-ranking officials. And it was spotted. Not long after the C-32 took off from Joint Base, this tweet surfaced. Innocuous enough, using FlightRadar24 and had identified an irregularity--an oddity. And now, oddities were beginning to stack. After the trip to Poland was announced, press be visiting Ukraine. Biden had, afterall, visited Poland just eleven suspicious. And, zeroing in further, the Twitter user dug deeper and posited that it very well could For their part, though, the President and the world to catch on. Having landed here at 8:00 PM, a stealth motorcade train station. While the Ukrainian train's interior lent these were not cars overhauled by Biden's It was simply a renovated luxury tourist train out of the country. Of all the high-risk maneuvers undertaken most dangerous of all--as the idea of an to the front lines, left American intelligence In the weeks and months prior, this discomfort for safer, more predictable alternatives, along the border or in the western city of to potential intervention. While the exact security detail and contingency the White House did communicate the trip to American surveillance aircraft tightly looped Sunday is now Monday, as the ten-hour, 400-mile, After a briefing to refresh the President a modified white Toyota Land Cruiser. What was a secret is no more, as streets across hits fever pitch. Some 30 hours since his last sighting by the pops up nearly 5,000 miles or 8,000 kilometers All for this--a public embrace of president at the Wall of Remembrance, and a quick stop Within five hours, he's already back on briefs, and preparing for tomorrow. Before even completing a trip that will be it's already on to the next task--more The executive branch understands the power Each day in their daily briefing, the president and as that sums up over the days, weeks, people in the world on that subject. Our sponsor, Brilliant, uses the same principles some of the most daunting subjects out there. Learning complex subjects is actually rather down into smaller chunks that you can understand, With their clear explanations and interactive build them back up into the broader subject. And on top of making it easier to learn these as fast or slow as you want--the chunks are of gravitational physics, for example, just to start. Then, if you do that enough, eventually you few others do. I think my favorite courses are the two on subject, but they have others on mathematical most of the complicated STEM subjects that I really can't recommend them enough, and such a worthwhile service to pay for these Brilliant has to offer free, for a full 30 to Brilliant.org/Wendover. And then the first 200 of you to do so will and you'll be supporting Wendover while