I'm a strong proponent Uh-huh. I believe the right to shall not be infringed. That's the one in the Constitution specific affirmative language. - You know, shall not be infringed. uses the phrase &quot;well-regulated.&quot; Correct. When it's talking about By the way, just for clarity's sake-- Yeah. --I'm not against the I'm not against-- I don't But you're saying more Yes. So, when? We got 400 million We had an increase, So when exactly does this Would a billion guns do it? Let's just run those numbers. You know, 400 million, 50,000. Uh-huh. You're talking about a-- of not even a percent But it goes up, not down. So your argument is backwards. But if you want-- okay, so-- so let's-- So one of the issues, again, I-- I believe it's the So your solution to that So I'm saying that because we need to look at the problems - and how do we address it versus-- for the state to do that. No. Because you-- Because you're-- If you don't have background checks-- Mm-hmm. --and you don't have how do you know who has a who you're giving a gun to? Do you want to talk about or do you want to talk I want to talk about, you're bringing chaos to order. That's your subjective opinion It's not my subjective opinion. - We have 50,000 gun related deaths. That's not a subjective opinion. Okay, so-- That's dead people. Let me-- Let me In every other place in your But guns are the outlier for you. So let's start with immigration. You want registration, maybe Why do you want that? Well, one of the reasons is - Right. You-- And you don't know So what do you do-- But the fentanyl crisis is twice Okay, so until the gun crisis Not until it. you don't want to bring order. No, not until it. But-- But do you see my point. --if we're going to talk about - larger issue in America than guns is. If we're talking about individual lives-- Yes. --of ways that they can be there's loss of life through fentanyl, - The obesity crisis in America, costs six times the number of lives - as guns and so-- the guy saying, you know what No. So you know what would facing with firearms. What? The fatherlessness crisis If you look at the statistics-- Right. Yeah, they're - 80 percent of school shoters either came from a broken Uh-huh. So you would say no guns - No, that's not what I would say. I would say that fathers - Great. So let's-- let's put more-- - let's put more resources into areas that are poverty stricken. All for it. And into fatherlessness. And But why with guns are I'm not against bringing order. You are. You're also making it less When the police go to a domestic call, it's the most dangerous Mm-hmm. In your world, if they firearms in the house, Is that what you're saying? - No because police-- because police treat every But more guns makes us safer. So why don't-- when the police why don't they breathe a sigh of Amendment that shall not be so fruitfully in this home? Are you familiar with the 39-year-old - I'm familiar with a ton of anecdotes. - I'm asking you a simple question. - When the police go to a house-- She had a restraining I can run through-- I know. --hundreds and hundreds by their domestic partners by guns that were not taken away through - You're pivoting to anecdotes. No, this is not anecdotes. What the police say, if if we were able to track they have a technology that with an individual, like a fingerprint, if we had an ATF we would be able to enforce and we would be able to solve You're against all of that. Because the person is the threat, - I get it. Great. - Great. But you don't want anything or society determine whether or not a person is a good guy with a - Most even law enforcement-- you to have much more Mm-hmm. So I don't understand why you won't harder for police to manage the to go out without permits, without Why is that hard-- why can't Because that's not what I'm doing. I'm defending the individual's That's a different argument. Okay, but-- You may do-- here-- here's-- Mm-hmm. You want to say I'm a Second Amendment purist, and I'm maing it safer. You're not. And that's not a matter of That is a matter of opinion, Jon. But why take away their tools? Because certain of their would be infringements to keep and bear arms upon - due process and upon other things. that registering is an infringement. Yes. Okay. Is voting a right? It's a right for citizens, yes. Do you have to do anything to do it? Yes. What do you have to do? It depends on the state. What do you have to do? Sometimes you have to-- you What do you have to do? And in some places, you have What do you have You have to be on the voter rolls. Register. You have to register. Mm-hmm. So you have to register to a Does the right to voting Oh, so this is just a No, it's not. You believe voting rights can be infringed because it doesn't say specifically shall not be infringed. Is it an infringement right to vote since they No. Oh, it's not infringement on them? - No. Absolutely not. You're the-- because you're the I'm saying even rights and that within those responsibilities-- Responsibilities, yes. --are responsibilities and order. I'll go you one further. You want to ban drag show - To minors yes. - Why? Why? Why can we prohibit children - from voting? But also that. Is-- Is that free speech? Are you infringing on that They can continue to just not in front of a child. Why? Because the government does I'm sorry? The government does have - instances to protect children. amongst children in this country? it's not drag show Correct, yes. So what is it? I'm presuming you're No, I'm not going to say That's what it is. It's firearms. More than cancer, more And what you're telling me is, you to protect children from this But when it comes to you don't give a flying **** shall not be infringed. That is hypocrisy at its highest order.