SPROUL: Let's pray shall we. Our Father and Our God as we have considered, the excellence of your character, and the be brought afresh to the foot of the cross, and we maybe clothed with an alien righteousness, in your holy presence. Thank you for the perfect holiness of Jesus upon us. Help us now to think even more deeply about we ask it in Jesus name, Amen. The text that I am going to be looking at have preached on many, many times. And I am sure that some of you at some point and wrath of God. But if it is repetitious for you, I only half must examine over and over again. We live in a culture, and sadly in a church God, does not consider God to be holy. But if, per adventure, some may acknowledge any idea of divine justice. And if, with the lamp of Diogenes we are able God is both holy and just, it is next to impossible the idea that God is a God of wrath. The assumption in the world and in the church God, and the grace of God either swallow up trump it. Even on national occasions where noted people Washington, it is commonplace to hear choirs Grace.&quot; But nobody believes that grace is amazing. It is something we assume. Again the assumption is that God is not holy, Now, this I know. If Thabiti's mother was here, and heard somebody And not just a lie, but a bald face lie. And not just a bald face lie, but what - a Yes, you've been listening. I'd like to read a passage to you from 1 Chronicles, and it is in the Old Testament. And if you are having trouble finding 1 Chronicles, It is right before 2 Chronicles. Chapter thirteen, and for my Baptist friends, We read the following narrative: - notice Would you like to know why? Say &quot;Yeah we want to know why? - Tell us.&quot; You see all these guys come up here, and taking Because someone from Scotland just said, &quot;Why off your watches, don't you know that there He pointed it out, and there it is, just as So I'll just look at that thing, except when I think I'll take my watch off. Now that I've given you time to find that thirteen of 1 Chronicles, this narrative: of thousands, and hundreds, and with every And David said to all of the assembly of Israel, Lord our God, let us send out to our brethren Israel and with them to the priests and the common lands that they may gather together back to us for we have not inquired at it, Then all of the assembly said that they would eyes of all the people. And so David gathered all Israel together to Lebo-hamath to bring the ark to God from David and all of Israel went up to Baalah to Judah to bring up from there the ark of The ark of God the Lord who dwells between So they carried the ark of God on a new cart Ahio drove the cart, and David and all of might. This was a glorious occasion, a festive occasion. The throne of God was being returned to the So the whole nation joins in celebration, harps, stringed instruments, tambourines, &quot;When they came to Chidon's threshing floor, the oxen stumbled. And the anger of the Lord was aroused against hand to the ark and he die there before God. And David became angry because of the Lord's There fore that place is called Perez-uzza day, and he said, 'How can I bring the ark When I was in seminary, I was taught that sudden explosion and paroxysms of rage that this episode of the sudden killing of poor manifested the truth that the Old Testament an example of popular religion of a tribal who were pre-scientific and unsophisticated. They would say that these episodes recorded of Uzzah are totally incompatible with the revealed in Jesus. So, what I experienced in Seminary was a revival expurgate from the Bible all references to I thought that this episode and others like sacred scriptures at least deserved the philosophy So briefly this afternoon, I would like you narrative you've just heard, and see what David assembles the whole nation for this sacred vessel of their religion to the holy After the ark had been captured by the Philistines, in storage as it were, removed from the life the glory to Israel. He is going to restore the throne of God to And so he has a brand new cart made in order the Covenant, and he has Uzzah and Ahio to carrying the ark. I don't which side of the ox cart Uzzah was My guess is he stood by the nigh-ox, which I thought it was on the left side? I got guy here in the second row who has a I know other guys who have Ph.D.s in bull, in cows. He keeps telling me all about this ox. But anyway, here comes this jubilant procession and all the musicians playing the cymbals procession, this great parade is moving wonderfully when that ox stumbles the cart is tilted on And the sacred Ark of the Covenant begins into the dirt - into the mud, where it would I think probably, instinctively, out of a it become marred in the dirt, Uzzah stretches What does the scripture say? As soon as he steadied the ark and kept the opened and this deep shouted to him from heaven, Not how it happened. As soon as he touched the ark, instantly he Instantly, God executed him. Oh the gymnastics my Old Testament professors the way it seemed to these unsophisticated Surely the man just dropped of a heart attacked to touch the sacred object.&quot; Or they would say, &quot;This is evidence that God in the Old Testament portrays God's wrath And it was an example of what one professor demonic element within the nature of God himself. You know what I thought about that professor Yahweh? I thought, &quot;What an oaf.&quot; What a line that was. It's too late for me to use it. I'm preaching through 1 Samuel too, and I'm I'd like to weave it back in. Evidently these people never read the fourth You realize that when God divided the tribes and the teaching to the tribe of Levi, that and it was broken down into clans, and clans And among the Levites there was the can of of the Kohahthites was to look after the sacred And you recall, that when the Ark of the Covenant And it was this square-ish object with gold But it had rings on the end and in the middle long poles or staves so that when it had to from place to place, the Kohathites would insert them through the rings and then they this sacred object with these wooden poles. The whole purpose of those rings, and the as human beings would never, ever, ever come Now, I like the way it was taught us this of the tabernacle was designed to make manifest And so this clan of the Kohathites, they were about how they were to treat the sacred vessels. And in Numbers chapter four - that means do I do but I'm not going to interrupt this for They were instructed in order to regard the were they ever to touch the Ark of the Covenant. And again, in Numbers four it says explicitly the holy throne of God, must die. Every Kohathite knew it. Now we don't know for sure that Uzzah and or they wouldn't have been assigned this task. And so, when the ark began to fall, Uzzah Jonathan Edwards has a sermon about this. He said that the sin of Uzzah was the sin Arrogance? Looked to me like a heroic act of humility. He risked his own life to make sure that the spoiled by being brought in contact with the Edwards says that herein was the arrogance, be a greater sacrilege than contact with the Edwards says - wait a minute. What is mud but the earth mixed with water? There is nothing innately sinful about dirt. There is nothing innately corrupt about the mud. If the Ark of the Covenant - if the throne to do any damage. What desecrates the throne of God is not the because there is no sin in the dirt. There is sin in the hand of Uzzah. So God executed him for profaning the most Turn with me briefly, to another passage in and verse one. Did you catch that Steve? See I colonize the Baptists. Did you ever hear a Presbyterian minister thirteen and verse seven? We don't talk like that. That's the way Baptist preachers say, chapter We're not all that verbose. We have an economy of language, so we simply We don't have to say, AND verse seven. It really doesn't add a whole lot to the discourse he can't preach. Stop me if I'm lying Steve. Now, if you've found Leviticus chapter ten. Every time I have a scripture reference for give them a chance to find it. Chapter ten, verse one - you know I don't I'm not a Hebrew scholar. When I came back from my graduate work in and in order to avoid the fine, I had to reduce So I left my Hebrew Bibles in Schipohl Airport. I think it's still there. &quot;Then Nadab and Abihu the sons of Aaron, each on it, and offered profane fire before the So fire went out from the Lord and devoured And they died before the Lord.&quot; Somebody asked me this morning. &quot;R.C., What was that strange fire that they I don't know. I'm only going to explore this passage for If you want a much more comprehensive examination Testament, I can recommend to you a Puritan How many of you have read that book? Let me see. I know that some of you have. Yes there are people around here. I see that hand. Joel you've read that? Have you ever seen a better exposition of In the crisis that we face with worship in needs to read - Gospel Worship by Jeremiah Whatever was in this fire that made it strange, by the sons of Aaron that made it profane, These young priests were simply involved in Maybe to try to change the liturgy that God appealing to the congregation. They missed the fundamental principle of worship. Worship is to be determined not by what is God never counts noses in the Old Testament. Thank you - keep going. The most successful worship service ever recorded It drew more people in attendance, broke all full of gusto that when the voices of the one of the men who heard the noise of this had broken out, and thought that the noise battle. When he took time to investigate it, it was golden calf. Nothing attracts greater crowds than the practices But these young fellows were just trying to a new way to sacrifice. They offered strange fire upon the altar. And as soon as they did it, that fire came crisp. I want to ask you this question. What do you suppose Aaron's response to this Let's go back a moment to the death of Uzzah. Uzzah was killed according to the text because And when Uzzah was executed by the wrath of David. Even David had trouble dealing with the wrath Even before David we have this incident where in his wrath. What's going on in Aaron's mind? He's a father. I can see him say, &quot;God what are you doing? These are my sons. They are walking in my footsteps. All they did was tinker a little bit with So he goes and he speaks to Moses. And you know the Bible is the master of understatement. You have to read between the lines an awful Moses said to Aaron, (in Aaron's obvious distress) Do you remember what the Lord said? Do you remember what he said at your ordination? Do you remember what he said when he set you Moses had to remind Aaron - this is what the be regarded as holy. And before all the people I must be glorified.' Don't you remember that Aaron? 'Anybody who comes near me, they must regard And in front of the whole congregation But instead of regarding God as holy, Nadab Do you realize how the Lord God omnipotent to come into his presence without considering responsibility in our celebration of worship the glory of God? Do you remember Aaron when the Lord spoke What does it say that Aaron did when Moses Again, masterful understatement. So Aaron held his peace. You better believe Aaron held his peace. There was nothing else for Aaron to do. There was no room here for debate. "I am the Lord, there is none other. And I will be regarded as holy by anyone who The story goes on that Moses called Mishael of Aaron and said to them, "come near and out of the camp." This seems like God is being a little bit men, and he's said, now come and get your give them a proper burial. No - he says, "'Carry your brethren from So they went near and carried them by their Moses said to Aaron and Eleazar and Ithamar your clothes, lest you die and wrath come But let your brothers, the whole house of has kindled. You shall not go out from the door of the For the anointing oil of the Lord is upon And they did according to the word of Moses.&quot; I don't even wan their bodies in the camp. And I don't want anybody rending their garments want a wake for these guys. They are polluting my sanctuary. I want their bodies and everything associated they have profaned me with their false worshipping. You know the most famous sermon ever preached century in Enfield Connecticut by Jonathan You all know the name of that sermon, &quot;Sinners I had to read that sermon for the first time an example of sadistic preaching. I thought even then, if Jonathan Edwards was in hell, which he did, a sadistic preacher to tell his congregation that there was no of their being plunged into it. Edwards was no sadist. He loved God and he loved his people. He cared about their ultimate destination. Almost everybody in America has heard the of an Angry God," however, almost no one The verse from the Old Testament upon which due time.&quot; Edwards's sermon has been used also in classrooms of God. Where most people who hear these images that majority of the images he uses to describe are images drawn from the scripture itself. The text, &quot;their feet shall slip in due time, chasm on a rope bridge where the planks that rope bridge are rotten, covered with moss, have rotted through so that every step you you slip and fall into the abyss. Because their fall was not simply probably, For God warned the sinners that if they did time." Another metaphor was the metaphor of the dam volumes of water. I remember thinking about this sermon when When the dams around New Orleans - notice Not New Orleans - that's the Northern way Where the news was constantly showing the threat moment to moment of the dam cracking, and tons of water would burst the dams and Edwards says that the wrath of God is stored Noting the apostle Paul's teaching that up, racking up wrath against the day of wrath, at ease in Zion, with no fear that the dam Then he used the metaphor of the bow, again Edwards said to the people, &quot;God's bow is It's not that he just has his fingers on the The bow is already bent and his arrow is aimed And the only thing that is keeping that arrow that holds it. But it is inevitable that if you do not repent, Of course in that sermon, the most vivid imagery When Edwards was still a teenage he wrote So he knew something about spiders and their He knew for example that if a spider spun on that web, the web could not hold it back, Edwards looked at his people in Enfield and hell by one slender thread, not a whole web, And every second the flames of divine wrath ready to singe it and burn it at any second. And the second that thread is burned you will The only thing that keeps you from falling Now, everybody thinks that sermon is a sermon But I think, more importantly, it is a sermon us out of there. That sermon wouldn't scare anybody in our believes in hell anymore. The greatest lie, the most monstrous lie, people tell themselves, &quot;I have nothing to My God is a God of love.&quot; Your God is an idol, and no God at all. Edwards challenged the congregation. He said, &quot;Come on, let's reason about this. Can you give me any reason, since you got fallen into hell?&quot; Apart from the gospel dear friends, I couldn't I couldn't give any reason why I am alive Christ. My favorite illustration of how callus we love and the grace of God, goes back to the given the assignment of teaching two hundred introduction to the Old Testament. And on the first day of class, I gave them how many tests we are going to have, when short little term papers, five pages each The first one is due September the 30th when the 30th, and the third one November the 30th.&quot; And I said, &quot;You have to make sure that you unless you are physically confined to the is a death in the immediate family, you will that paper here on time. Does everybody understand that? Yes.&quot; September the 30th came and two hundred and term papers with them. There were twenty-five terrified freshmen &quot;Oh Professor Sproul, we didn't budget our We haven't made the transition from high school Please don't flunk us. Please give us a couple more days to get our I said, &quot;Okay, this once, I will give you I will let you have three more days to get again.&quot; &quot;On no - thank you so so so much.&quot; Then came October the 30th. This time two hundred students came with their them. I said, &quot;Where are your papers?&quot; They said, &quot;Well, you know how it is proff. It's midterms, and we had all kinds of assignments It's homecoming week and we're just running Please give us just one more chance.&quot; I said. &quot;You guys don't have those papers? Do you know what I said the last time? I had said, don't even think about not having And now, fifty of you out there don't have &quot;Oh yeah we know.&quot; I said, &quot;Okay, It's the last time, I will And you know what happened? This really happened. I preached on this three years ago, and there was in that classroom, and he hasn't forgotten They started this thing spontaneously, two &quot;We love you proff Sproul, Oh yes we do.&quot; And I was the most popular professor on that This time one hundred of them come with their don't have their term papers. And I watched them walk in as cool and as And I saw one of them who was a Marine veteran, So I said, &quot;Johnson!&quot; He said, &quot;What?" &quot;Where is your paper?&quot; He said, &quot;Hey&quot; He says, &quot;Don't worry about it proff, I'll I picked up the most dreadful object in a A little black book, and I opened it up to your term paper?&quot; He said, &quot;No&quot; paper?&quot; &quot;Don't have it.&quot; &quot;F&quot; &quot;Don't have it.&quot; 'F&quot; shouted, what you know they would shout, "That's And I turned around, and I said, &quot;Fitzgerald, He said, &quot;Yeah, it's not fair.&quot; I said, &quot;Right, weren't you late last month He said, &quot;Yeah,&quot; I'm going to do. If it's justice you want. It is justice you will get." And I went back, and I changed his grade from the room. I said, &quot;Who else wants justice?&quot; I didn't get any takers. It was like a song similar to one out of My &quot;I've grown accustomed to his grace.&quot; What had happened was that the first time the second time they were no longer surprised, By the third time they demanded it, and believed to which they all deserved. I took that occasion to explain to my class, say, 'That's not fair.' You have confused justice and grace. The minute you think that anybody owes you reminds you that you are no longer thinking something you don't deserve. It is something you can't possibly deserve. You have no merit before God, except demerit. And if God should, ever, ever, treat you justly, foot will slide in due time. Any time there is a group this large assembled, a church service, or a Christian conference, right now, who are that far away from hell, go there. But if there is a God, and there is, and if and he is, he could not possibly be without And if you have not been reconciled through to look forward to is his wrath, which is and is an eternal wrath. God must be regarded as holy by anyone who So my beloved, if you would come into the God whom you are approaching, that you may Let's pray. Father, there are times when we don't like Sometimes we say with Luther, &quot;love God sometimes, But as much as your holiness intimidates me, than if you weren't holy, or if you had no or unconcerned toward evil. So we thank you that you are altogether holy, righteous wrath, and that you have given us the wrath that is to come. Amen.