Little Havana is the heartbeat of Miami. The sound of salsa music mixes with the scent intoxicating aroma that's impossible to resist. The neighborhood is a living tribute to the cars, and click clack of dominoes. In today's Little Havana travel guide, we every notable corner of this neighborhood. So join us on this journey to hear the heartbeat Welcome to Little Havana. After years of wanting to come to Little Havana Yes, and we're starting our journey over here We're in this underrated bakery that is called Seems to be popular too because there's tons as we thought. I hope they have something with guava because Oh I think they will. I think they will. Let's go check it out. Ok we got more stuff than we should have, We're on vacation. Such a cool bakery. All the clientele there are speaking Spanish. It seems like people come here all the time. It's a typical Saturday. People want their pastries and there was tons So we got a pastelito de guayaba y queso, dulce de leche cookies that we're going to So let's give it a try. I got a lot stuck to the back of my teeth. Just a second. Oh that's so so good. Whatever's in the inside of this I just want Delicious. When you think Little Havana you think Calle So we relocated ourselves over to this main today are going to be. What better place to start off our journey And they even have little samples of coffee If it's free, it's for me! I always make that joke with Juliana. She gets so mad. And aside from that it's pretty much just You could also grab a couple of maps, but head over there. You know I thought calling Little Havana, but no, we just passed a Mexican taco place, Good! I don't know. Walking Calle Ocho, I'm keeping my eye out That man runs the place, and I keep hearing That guy unites the world. Mr...Mr 305. It even has its own little Walk of Fame. And it was mainly for Cuban stars, but then stars all over Calle Ocho. Yeah, I'm gonna keep an eye out for Pitbull's For lunch we headed to El Rey de las Fritas, It's in a little strip mall, right next to From the outside it could look small, but Yeah and they have a fantastic menu. This place was actually featured on Street the best places to grab this guy. It's called a Frita, which is basically the a lot better. They have a great mix of sausage and ground loads and loads of potato. It's quite interesting. And of course if you're in Miami, you need That's exactly what I ordered. Actually we're gonna share it. Wow. What makes it so good here is the mix of spices own little secret sauce. So so good, and everything is made here. Actually this dish is very special for me It's in my dad's favorite movie, that is called I don't know if you guys are familiar with Cuban sandwiches over here. So I'm looking forward to eat this. So this one is for you Dad. And you guys know by now that if Martin's love with it. Five out of five. After lunch, we made our way back to Calle to take in. To the left, we passed shops where skilled right, vibrant murals added splashes of colors At one point, we even passed by chickens. I mean what is this place? As we strolled along, the music transformed a new sound to get lost in. But eventually, the melodies faded away, leaving We had arrived to the famous Domino Park. Domino Park, also known as Maximo Gomez Park, Little Havana. This iconic park is a gathering place for has been a tradition in the community for The park is always buzzing with activity, in intense matches, while novices learn the It doesn't matter the day or the time, there This is Latin America. There's just a lot of people sharing stories, So you can only hear music from outside and I love it. Across the street from Domino Park is another They offer a unique menu of ice cream flavors of Little Havana. Along with the classic flavors like chocolate like avocado. And it was at this point I realized I have staff member I've seen today. Most of my life these days is in English, here and be understood. So this place is called Azucar. And we have ice cream. This one that Juliana got it's amazing. I have Dulce de Leche...boring. But Juliana got something that is called Abuela Maria cookie,s and it has cheese, right? And then they put some guava thingamajig on Well done, Juliana. I'm just loving the guava today. Good good good. After enjoying those delicious ice creams, door. There was dancing and there was music. Turns out, this place is a piece of history Ball and Chain is a historic nightclub and 1935. Tt was a popular spot for legendary performers a hub for Cuban musicians, and the birthplace The club eventually closed in the 1960s and it was restored and reopened in 2014, and ever since. It's the middle of the afternoon and there's how this place is during the night. There's an endless amount of food you can to find something different. When we heard about Doce Provisions, we knew American Fusion that is amazing. The place itself is not pretentious. There's just a couple of tables here, but in Miami. Guy Fieri even came here on Diners Drive-Ins so we're going to try that tonight. I wish you guys can hear all the amazing music Martin's shaking his head &quot;no&quot;. We got a winner. You're gonna like it. Well I guess I should take the lens cap off The texture on this is amazing throughout. It's not overly fried. Somewhat creamy inside, perfect amount of This is delicious. What do we have here, Martin? We have Ropa Vieja, that is one of the most I cannot wait to try it. No words needed, you can see the reaction Little Havana you are colorful, you are loud, We had an awesome time exploring this neighborhood. What would you say, do you recommend it? Totally. If you're going to Miami you should come over Follow for more adventures around the USA We actually make videos every single week de Viajero. So long, travel well. and make the world to neighborhood. See you guys next time. Bye!