Y'all be praying for the worship team. them covered and smothered in prayer. and other places. Where can we go to find It's easy...elevationworship.com. I could have said that. Elevationworship.com. That's all they have to do. That's so simple, Chris. Come out and worship with Many nights are sold out. A few are not. album on repeat this week? Wave at me. What is That's mine too. That's my favorite one. We No skips was the goal. I pray that it's incredible team of technical geniuses, musical I speak on behalf of all of our worship We love creating anthems for you so you can consider that a privilege. I figure everybody &quot;Miracle after miracle!&quot; while you're but this is our way to be there with I realized early in my ministry with the there's the Word of God being preached to us, and then there's the worship we give to God that doesn't have to do with a style, but it has When those two things are in tandem together, you become dangerous to the Devil and you please don't let this be the only time Don't let this be the only time of the week grow and be strengthened and to receive I stand before you ready to The proof of that is Abbey said, &quot;Dad, I at 6:00 a.m. when I woke up.&quot; She said, &quot;I proof for my therapist one day.&quot; (She didn't was explaining to her, &quot;That's not me preaching So, I now get the privilege to preach to you. be big. You might know this Bible story. &quot;On the Jesus' mother was there, and Jesus and his I love how Jesus is mentioned like a plus one. &quot;When the wine was gone, Jesus' mother said why do you involve me?' Jesus replied.&quot; I out loud to try to say it in a way that didn't me to say that sequence of words, being &quot;Woman, why do you involve me?&quot; and she's on the second row. She can't me?' Jesus replied. 'My hour has not yet 'Do whatever he tells you.' Nearby stood Jews for ceremonial washing, each holding from &quot;Jesus said to the servants, 'Fill the jars Then he told them, 'Now draw some out and take and the master of the banquet tasted the water where it had come from, though the servants who bridegroom aside and said, '[This is weird. The choice wine first and then the cheaper wine after but you have saved the best till now.'&quot; There's something the Lord and I want you to help me tell your neighbor and make a distinction for them. Tell That was the wrong neighbor. Look at your on. Put it in the chat if you're not in in case you're disappointed about something, and think it's never going to come to pass, Clap your hands and put a praise on We say yes to your Word, Lord. Speak. I've been waiting to preach this one. The hard decided to set this sermon up by giving you a I have never coached one of my children in sports. their dad shouldn't punish the other children I think you know what I'm talking about. cussed out that coach, and complained about on the sidelines. Graham said something so little wrestler now. A good big wrestler now. He said, &quot;I thought you were so OP but now that I look back and realize how it's amazing to me how much you coached me, That's funny. I try to coach my kids for you know they didn't sign up to be on your team, and you can't kick them off, so But, all joking aside, I have found it to be one and privileges of my life just to be there for Elijah called me from college last semester. transition of being a freshman in college, he but I could tell he was down and he After we pushed past that a little bit, I said, at, like, 3:00 and have something to write I'll coach you as if you paid me to do it.&quot; at the scheduled time of the appointment. I said, &quot;Okay. What I think you're feeling the resources you relied on when you and you still have us at college, but everything in my personal life, I feel like I have reached You know, the Devil starts telling me the same but he tells me them as a grown man, that best is behind me or that I'm no longer have said about me are right. You know, bore you with it. When I get in that So I told him, &quot;I'm going to take you through low.&quot; I said, &quot;One list that I, of course, things to be grateful for. There's nobody who has a TikTok account who hasn't &quot;There's another type of list I like to make, in this alone and nobody is there for me. I know I'll make a list of every person who is in my they would be willing to help me or who I the smallest way. If they ever helped me or if they mentioned one time that they would I said, &quot;Now, the hardest part is going to be to like, 'Well, nobody cares about me. Nobody likes last thing that happened to you posing as the As you begin to write, what you're going to find with no editing, you'll have a hard time anything. Don't asterisk anything. Don't 'Yeah, I've got to do that for them.' Then, if you do something for?&quot; Y'all are quiet. Y'all I said, &quot;Sometimes it's better to even say, 'Well, who's somebody I could encourage? Who's &quot;When you start the list, you'll have to stop we did it together on the phone. What I said would not at sports. So, he starts writing the list, You're right. This is crazy. And they know them, &quot;Now you have to stop, because now I'm going I'm going to need you to act on at least one I want you to learn the pattern in your life and then reach out. You don't have to reach have to ask them to do something, and you don't The third hardest part of this, is after you reach out, I need you to because they might not. If you predicate your you could end up worse off after this because now it will have served to have reinforced So I need you to reach and release. That's what &quot;You might reach out to somebody and remember when we talked about...?'&quot; Because he was &quot;I don't really have anything, and I don't have I said, &quot;Well, the first thing you need to do then reach, but then release, because they might just be a bad time. You might create stories in care about me. Something horrible happened No, they're not dead. They're just asleep, taking That's what I saw in John, chapter 2, this joining the milieu of students of the Scripture this question: &quot;Why is Jesus at a wedding when You will recall that his life was cut that for the first 30 years of his ministry meaning everything we have other than him getting lost at the temple one Well, it simply isn't there for our &quot;Jesus, do you really have time to stop by to change the world? And, I might add, your world-class material. You've got a lot of you want to take them to a wedding on the Did you know that? This is the first week that makes me think about the timing of Jesus. &quot;On &quot;Oh, yeah, the third day...resurrection.&quot; Not Jesus gets up from the grave. He hasn't died He hasn't taught the Pharisees and the them for their stiff-necked adherence to of God. None of that has happened yet, to a wedding.&quot; The third day of...what? The For years, I read this and thought it because in these days they would party for a week of the wedding. That's not what it means. &quot;On we realize from the very beginning of this it's happening on his. Not your That is one of the most difficult when we believe a promise from God, we expect but it's not happening according to my plan. It's according to my preference. It's happening don't you want to kind of tell Jesus to read Read the Scripture. It says, &quot;On the third day mother was there, and Jesus and his disciples you're running Jesus' scheduling. and you're going through all of the the perfect Word of God that was the one through whom and by whom and for whom He's sitting down to plan the week, and they but I told them no,&quot; and Jesus &quot;But, Jesus, it's a wedding, and &quot;Yeah. No. We're going.&quot; What I took from that that I want to pass Jesus would show up if you would invite going under to cry out to him for help, to be going through the fire of hell to he wants to join you in your moments of I don't mean you have to be weird we thank you for that base hit, for, and on Christ the solid rock we...&quot; No. Just What God can do in one open moment might change on what you perceive to be a God moment, which Why not call on him and ask him to come to the think that's amazing. I think it's amazing that he took the time to stop by. I think it's amazing because who was at the wedding becomes even more Jesus goes from the plus one to the miracle worker pick up. He was invited to a wedding, and verse to me that if he was already at the wedding and been better to do it when the wine was getting a low. It would seem to me that if he was coming he could have brought wine to the wedding, because Herein lies one of the great mysteries of the run out before he steps in. Just because you've I could preach a whole revival on that. out of answers, out of ideas, out of out of people to text. &quot;I made my list. I went of time. I'm out of opportunities. I'm out.&quot; Just Now you know why we were singing earlier that some times where he didn't show up right when we learned some things in the lag time that we would If he had stepped in immediately... If the wine If the job never dried up, it If the relationship would have always it would have been about that person. So he run dry. He let it lag a little bit so when Now there's a conversation between Mary, the This is humorous. You have to see can't tell what's going on at first. I really &quot;They have no more wine.&quot; Two words in Greek: say. She's not exactly asking him to fix It's one of these. It's like, &quot;No wine,&quot; and &quot;Woman, why do you involve me?&quot; This is hilarious do with me?&quot; Now watch this statement, because not yet come.&quot; Okay. So, she's not exactly asking He's not exactly refusing to do it, but he's all of the responses that Mary, the mother of had an attitude like many of us, because &quot;Not your time? Son, I was a virgin.&quot; came into my womb. Talk about not time. I was going to Bethlehem for a census, and, home. I was on that donkey behind Joseph, and about your time. Let's talk about time.&quot; a controversy. Maybe it's not an argument. Maybe Maybe it's not reluctance. Maybe there's do something. There's a request, there's In John, chapter 7, Jesus' ministry is really performed, many blind people have already received and Jesus is popular. His brothers come to him thing right, you need to get to Jerusalem see you at the festival,&quot; and Jesus says The Bible says Jesus' brothers went and a little bit later in the week. He it's weird, isn't it? They said, &quot;You need you are.&quot; He was like, &quot;Oh, I'm going &quot;No,&quot; but what he was really saying There were two sisters in a place called Bethany at their home. One of them loved to cook, and one eat and speak and eat. He was in heaven in their believe had a physical impairment and that is part that whatever the case of his physical condition So, the messenger sent a text to Jesus. (I'm Since there was no communication via text for them to get to Jesus. It took a little message arrived to Jesus in John, chapter 11, &quot;He must not have loved them very much,&quot; you say. where he was two more days. So, here comes the the response of Jesus: He stays where he is. He They've seen him heal. They've seen him take They've seen him speak the word, and his word did not and healed, but in his delay Lazarus When he finally got to the place, saying, &quot;Lord, if you would have out. &quot;...my brother would not have died.&quot; that would have resulted in a healing? You could your life today that you secretly feel like God Many times, it can be painful to praise God for back and watched stuff happen to you that didn't that you know was evil, watched stuff happen in &quot;Lord, if you would have been here, he wouldn't words from Martha: &quot;But I know that even What's she talking about? It can't be before. But she understands something about Jesus. She has seen him move. She has felt his presence. when you get in his proximity, to make things She said, &quot;I don't know why you but I know what I know that even now...&quot; I &quot;I know what I know.&quot; &quot;I don't know why God still do it right now. I know what I know. but I know what I know. God has what I feel God on that. &quot;I know what I know. I to do that we haven't seen yet, and my brother is really in tatters. I'm in recovery. I have custody battle. I have some legal problems. know what you can do about that, but I know Lord!&quot; High-five everybody in your &quot;I don't know why he said no. I an engagement ring and she's a hellion but I know what I know. One day in his courts, and blessed is the man who does calm down. I'm trying to teach a verse-by-verse Somebody asked the other day, &quot;Do you know what but I know what I know. It doesn't I know what I know. The mystery of this text me say that again. The mystery of this text The consumers didn't know how the miracle when I got on the phone with my son and said, &quot;I if he was having a bad day, I probably could have been happy, but he would have gotten and then he'd feel worse, because I'm realizing something about Jesus. How at you when I ask this. Just raise your hand have something in your life right now that's How many of you have something in your &quot;God must be telling me no&quot;? He might. One time for God. Who better to do it? He wrote all of house the songs he wrote for God? But he didn't &quot;Go ahead. Do it, man. That sounds good,&quot; The prophet had to pivot and turn back and say, Dude, I love you so much, and you are so amazing, surely God would let you do it and God would a temple. Why wouldn't God get behind that? It's Well, he didn't say 'no'; he said, 'not you.'&quot; That's hard to hear. &quot;Not you.&quot; He said, have too much blood on your hands. But David spent the rest of his life storing up would never personally receive the benefit you leave out if your goal is a shout, but my If you shout, what do you have? A sore throat. Jesus is a miracle worker. Yes. Jesus is the and that is the purpose he came to have dominion over death so we could He is also a teacher, and a good teacher slow because he wants to show you something. and I went to one lesson. impressing me with how fast he could I thought, &quot;This won't work. If your whole I leave knowing nothing, and you feel good about that you can slow it down enough so I can watch sixth fret, first fret.'&quot; I mean, if he really We ask Jesus to teach us things, and we're teach us to be more loving. We are surprised when Bad idea. You have seven days of traffic to You are going to have Atlanta, Georgia, traffic the deck to give you what you asked for, and I had some friends on the step team. I thought a simple thing on the step team.&quot; So they went See how fast I did that? It took about four like, 30 years now, but I swear we were going... Not because they couldn't do God is not going slow because he can't do it. get into this. God didn't say &quot;no&quot; because he if we can do it... I still remember this after all &quot;You've got to go slow for Steven. Steven can't but he needs it really slow.&quot; Peter is really of slow. The disciples are kind of slow. How slowing this down in my life, and he might not be God making it convenient isn't always kind. &quot;Okay. Y'all are out of wine?&quot; Mary says, &quot;I already have that taken care of. I found the a water hose. This water was not ionized. They said, &quot;We're out of wine.&quot; Not, &quot;We're of wine in a couple of hours. Let's do something need wine...when? Now. This is what's frustrating &quot;Wonderful. Awesome. Glorious. Great. You're through things that are real in my life, Well, maybe there is something Jesus wants to do in the process that will again. I'm thinking he would have the power to the water from. I need to slow this down &quot;Jesus, they have no more wine.&quot; &quot;What does a refusal, and then a revelation. What's the There's an old covenant represented by the water. blood and ratified by his death. He's showing us is symbolized in the text. Simply put, it would I love what Mary said in verse 5. &quot;Do whatever he trying to teach us. We've been doing all kinds needs to happen, and that needs to happen.&quot; Mary A few months ago, we were online talking Holly showed me one the other day called mom times... &quot;We need to be there at 7:00, so so that means we need to wake up I said, &quot;Oh. Well, this week I'm preaching &quot;We have no wine and a lot of people. the math distract you. &quot;I don't have yet. I'm not old enough to do that. Don't let the math distract you. As we feed 5,000 if you do what he says. you're on your own. Get your calculator and good if you'll get attuned to the process you will not need God to give you something The Bible says when Mary activated the presence &quot;That has nothing to do with me. My hour has not about his death. He's not saying, &quot;I won't do it the big picture. There's a request, a refusal... &quot;Well, life won't let me. Well, they been trying that for years.&quot; The refusal. &quot;My hour has not yet come. This is not my ultimate she needs to convince him to do. All she has The moment she says, &quot;Do whatever he tells She doesn't know much, but she's coaching good. You just have to get going in the next thing he for this moment, for this occasion, they had Why did Jesus not just bless the well and are we taking bucket after bucket after bucket, the well, carrying it into the house, finding the these buckets were? Two gallons. Do you remember Let me do some preacher math really quickly. to 30 gallons, so there's some variance, but... but that seems pointless. If you're Jesus, go it in. But the real revelation to me was in While they were going out to the well and back 30 gallons, 15 fillings, which would have &quot;Jesus said to the servants...&quot; Watch this very message that I preached all the way here to get with some stuff. I see you in your life dealing through a process that maybe, at this intersection The Bible says, &quot;Jesus said to the servants, 'Fill brim.&quot; Read it again. He said, &quot;Fill the jars with &quot;Then he told them, 'Now draw some out...'&quot; slowing down here. Do you have a purpose Do you just want the parking lot to be sadistic?&quot; Nuh-uh. I'm slowing it down to the servants, 'Fill the jars with water'; so but this is an emergency. We In this culture, that was the ultimate shame. probably good that the alcohol got cut off at was God making them run out of wine.&quot; so there is shame present. Jesus is stepping situation; he's dealing with their I don't know about you, but I hate the the embarrassment of thinking, &quot;I should the embarrassment of feeling like, &quot;I should the embarrassment of going, &quot;I should have Now the fear of falling behind has been combined no wine. This is an emergency. This is urgent. So distributing it? Read the text. It says they had That means they had to fill all six before the water and the water became wine, because then maybe they would have been addicted they're pouring water. Water doesn't turn to There are no grapes in this situation. There So, the servants are pouring and pouring pouring and checking. &quot;Has anything happened imagine. They get the first jar full. to demonstrate that I take you seriously. can we take some over to the people now and because there's no wine? Can we just take one He said, &quot;No, no, no. Not now. Fill the next now.&quot; It was not until every jar was filled the last filled jar that it became wine. Why has God allowed you to pray about this for so our situation? Why did he reset in order to I'm telling you what I know from my life. It done it. I can't speak for everybody in the It is sometimes when I am almost done trying. &quot;Now.&quot; It's not when I'm fresh. It's not not when it makes sense. It's not when it It's at that moment where I'm like, &quot;If I have to this one more time...&quot; Nothing is happening, for every time you pour, when your eyes can't is producing within you the strength The strength to know where grace comes from. The with blood drawn from Immanuel's veins. that you thought in your life were rejection God is speaking to somebody today who has didn't even say, &quot;No.&quot; He said, &quot;Not and your prayer has been, &quot;Will you help never understand certain things on this Now we know in part, now we see but when what is incomplete has been made the meantime is not to understand; it is to obey Some of the stuff God is doing in your life I understand that you filled three jars. I years. I understand that you went back five times, see who he is. The key verse of this passage has verse 11 of John, chapter 2. The Bible says this revealed his glory. He refused the request so he could reveal could reveal his glory, because if he just but if he teaches you to trust him, you'll There is a process for trust. There is a That's what the pouring is. It's the process. but first you must learn to pour. Jesus is so &quot;Normally, they switch out the cheap stuff at I came to announce, &quot;Get ready for God to do than you thought, different than you different than you put on your list. &quot;You saved your life that in a previous season you were not word today. Why? Because it's a now moment. filled. Now. Now over your mental health. Now It wasn't about you. You weren't rejected. first wanted to write a song with Matt Redman. ever meet from the UK or maybe anywhere else in a song with me. Write a song with me.&quot; He was kindly affirmative in his not-now-ness. I was like, &quot;Will you quit calling me 'mate' and you.&quot; This was very early when I was writing songs thought, &quot;You don't want to write a song with me. I can write a song. I can write a song. I'll along with the incredible team, we wrote I'd send them to Matt and say, &quot;Aren't Aren't these good? Won't you write And do you know what Matt did? One day I at a big conference...30,000 people. He was there I was preaching on &quot;Don't stop on six.&quot; I The line I said was, &quot;The promise still stands.&quot; &quot;Mate.&quot; I said, &quot;Yes?&quot; He said, &quot;That was an the promise still stands.&quot; I said, &quot;Yes.&quot; So, he wasn't saying, &quot;No.&quot; I'm glad he told me no, because it made me go who was my very first person who joined the church heard it. We had three hours before we had to fly. &quot;No, you'd better do it now. He might not want He said, &quot;I'll get some chicken wings from and y'all can eat. In the worst-case scenario, get everything taken care of. I'll make get you exact last moment. I'll come at the and we got almost nothing. The only thing we Walking around these walls, I thought by now they'd fall, Then we had to leave. Eat some chicken from time to time. I would text him. &quot;We should work on that thing with the walls even have the line that made him want to write One day, I sent him a thing. It went it back. He did it twice. Months more go by. remember? We were finishing up a song at the bought that house. We wrote some good songs in He said, &quot;You know, I don't know but we still have that thing &quot;The 'promise stands' thing?&quot; He said, &quot;Yeah,&quot; I've seen you move, you move the mountains, Now, think about this. &quot;I thought by now different. You thought by now it would be easy. You thought by now they would be productive. You thought by now it would have lifted. I think it's in his infinite faithfulness from a relationship I wonder. Is there an area in your life but now God has been using it &quot;There's something wrong with me. That's why.&quot; He's teaching you how to fill the jar by Every two gallons you carry, and you fill it, and gallon by gallon by gallon. I feel like don't know who it's for. It's not going you'll be saying, &quot;Now! He saved It was not God saying, &quot;No.&quot; Jesus, I was tossed in the water... Kind of scary for a second. But I never went under, Jesus, when I went through the fire, Yeah, always. You never left Jesus, all I've got are some pots, You can turn it to wine. Because I've still got a God That doesn't make any sense. Water to wine? Wine He doesn't work on your time schedule. Some of I don't know who it's for. The Devil is a liar. the best stuff is still coming. It's still [Worship] hey thank you for watching the Elevation Church know when we go live and post new content make to you today where you're watching from and like to support the ministry financially you can reaching people around the world for Jesus