Unlike most people on TikTok right now trying out this trick, I actually have lines around my eyes. See, I actually have texture. I actually have lines. J Lo's makeup artist Scott Barnes says that the key to flawless, perfect, long lasting non creasy under eyes is lip balm. What? I've been doing it wrong all along. It's all I needed to do. That's it. We're going to try this out today and we're going to try it out all the frickin way. I'm doing the classic bronzy J-Lo smokey eye. I'm going to be wearing a bronzy gown. I am going to do my hair. We're going ten out of ten, and then we're going to take all the bullshit away. We're going to take away the lights. We're going to take away softening beautiful camera lens, and we're going to go in natural light with the most evil of all cameras. That's your iPhone camera, the camera that makes you look ten years older and very flawed. We're going to do it all, okay. We're going to see how this looks right after we put it on. And we're going to see how it looks, you know, a few hours later in natural light, no filter, no softening, no bullshit. Let's go. Just a pro tip here with, before hack and Mark trainer, I'm going to take 20 years off your face with Aquaphor. Check this out. Yeah. It's magic. Anyway, I use a little bit on the neck, and I use the lip balm underneath the eyes. And this makes your concealer stay ten times longer and doesn't get all creased up and crazy, believe it or not. And it doesn't break down the makeup. I know. I figured this out after doing hours and hours of photoshoots and movies and music videos. How do I keep the concealer from not kicking up underneath the eyes after such a long wear? And this was that, Aquaphor. So tell me what you guys think of this, because it really works. I use the Marc trainers just to give a little bit of a facelift, which is fine. We're using blush, normal makeup technique, and everything else, but the Aquaphor just keeps everything pliable. I'm doing a really basic kind of smokey eye. She has a little birthday dinner to go to, so we're getting ready for that. And I figured, you know what? This is a great time to tell you guys how to how these tips and tricks work. And hopefully they work for you too. So, you know, I'm using good. Believe it or not, I'm using Maybelline Colorstay powder. This stuff is like iron by the way. So here it is before and after. Tell me what you guys think. Let me just say, when I saw this video, I ran. I ran to Amazon and look what I got. And then I ran to Shoppers Drug Mart, which is the Canadian drugstore where makeup is sold. And I bought this. But first smokey eye. The power of editing never gets old. Okay, now let's do the Aquaphor. The first thing I'm noticing is that this is dense. Unlike most people on TikTok right now trying out this trick, I actually have lines around my eyes. See, I actually have texture. I actually have lines. So I really do have an issue with my concealer creasing. If you haven't been around here for a while, that is a big issue for me. Got also put it around here. I have really deep nasolabials here too and he put it around the lips. So let's see if that all helps everything stay put all day. Next up, Foundation. Now I DM'd Scott Barnes okay on Instagram. Like honestly, who do I even think I am? I DM'd Scott Barnes on Instagram and I like lost my mind because he added me as a friend and DM'd me back, which is so awesome. And the reason I DM'd him is because I needed to know what concealer he used. And he had mentioned that he used one by Urban Decay, but they don't make it anymore. So I was like, okay, so we can't use that. I know he's coming out with one himself very shortly, so when I see that come out, I will leave it pinned in the pinned comment for you guys. This guy's the makeup god of Hollywood, okay? He is the man. So anyway, because we don't have the Urban Decay concealer, we are going to do something else. I'm going to go in with this Vasanti Liquid VO2. It's a color correcting concealer okay. This is made for those deeper skin tones, those medium to deeper skin tones. So I'm just going to use that here in the really reddish blue zones to camouflage and color. Correct. Now the reason that I'm doing this is I need something that's peach based or orange based to cancel out blue, and I have a lot of blue under my eyes. If I didn't use a color correcting step first, then I would end up really ashy under the eyes. Okay, so we're going to see how well this layers because this might be the perfect layering base so that we can use something like a color corrector. And then we can go in with the concealer. And it's not going to get so gummy and cakey over time. We'll see. Okay, I don't know how magical lip balm is, but we're going to try it. So I am just stippling that out. Okay, upon first impression that looks really smooth and flawless okay. If you guys see the texture under my eyes there. So far so good. Now before we move in to brightening, we have to do the Scott Barnes way. Okay. So we got to go and snatch the face. This is much heavier than what I normally do. I'm not a huge contour gal on myself. I really just do really natural makeup most of the time. But I feel like we've got to snatch our face because this is a Scott Barnes inspired look. So do you guys see how something like this gives you the cheekbone of your dreams? Like, see how I created an intentional shadow right here? I'm looking there because my monitor's there. So I want to see if you see what I see. I think you see what I see because I can see over there. But that is how we give ourselves kind of this snatched effect. How are the eyes looking, you guys? How are the eyes looking? We're still pretty good, right? We're still not overly crazy. Actually, we're not really crazy at all. Oh, this is awesome. Okay, so now let's go in with a little bit of brightening concealer. So let's go in with my current fave which is the house lapse concealer. And we are going to do light medium neutral which will give me a little bit of a brightening effect. We can even stick it here to pop this shadow out and we blend it out by stippling. Right? Pressing motions will push that concealer into the skin and also build up anything that you want to hide. I am loving how my underarms are looking right now. I can't even believe it. We got to do our shading still for the smokey eye. But before we shade we always want to set. So Scott, okay, Scott said to use this, I dragged my kids with me to buy it this morning. Let's see how well this works. Is this our new under-eye powder? That's not going to cost us $1 million like this Givenchy Prisma libre I mean, I don't even think that, Givenchy Prisma Libre can be beat. And this is different. This is a hybrid powder foundation. So this is a powder and a foundation. It's like a two and one. So if you apply this more heavily you can apply it as an actual foundation. The Givenchy Prisma Libre is a setting powder only. Right. Totally different. So I'm just going to swirl on here. I'm not going to press this in with a powder puff, because that's going to be too heavy of an application. I know with the amount of movement I have around my eyes, it's going to be too heavy. But let's try this. He said this was super bullet proof and I am here for that life. Okay. Yeah, that looks good. What? Guys, this is amazing. All right, so let's smoke out under the eyes. So what I used for this look was actually this shadow by Jane Iredale. This is a shadow palette. It is a beautiful shadow palette called solar flare. So I used a combination of this one and this one. This one's naturally matte. So it's nice to have your matte neutrals right along with your more shimmery colors because you need your matte neutral to create shadows and contours. So let's go in and shade out the bottom. For blush let's go in with Patrick Starrr. This one is Berry That. I've been finding that things are looking a lot better on me lately. Now that I'm getting older, when they're higher, I have really pronounced nasolabial folds like in here, so I just find to offset that, if I keep my blush higher, I don't draw as much attention to it. That's also why I put that brightening concealer there. It's to pop it forward, right. It's a highlight effect. And then sometimes I even go over here in like a C formation. Now if you want a little bit more glow, you can then also go in with your cream blush. Now, I know it seems kind of counterintuitive to put cream on top of powder, but this is Patrick Starrr's way, okay? This is how he teaches to do it. And I actually really like it because it intensifies the powder and you add highlight to it. Guys. This was supposed to be about under eyes. And now I'm going on a real tangent. I'm sorry, I am like incapable of simplifying videos. I'm trying. I'm trying to simplify videos, not make them so long and dragged out, but I'm incapable of it. Okay, for lips, I want to do something a little bit more on the nude side, because that's what J.Lo always has on. That's what Scott designs for J.Lo. I talk about him like we're friends now because he DM'd me once, so we're literally best friends now. Hey, you guys want to do something cool for me? You know what I was thinking would be so amazing if I got Scott to do my makeup on the channel. Can you even imagine? It would be literally a bucket list thing for me. Like if I was dying tomorrow and some type of foundation came up to me and was like, I can grant you one wish. I'd be like, Scott Barnes has to do my makeup! Oh man, is that sad? I don't even know. That would be my wish. That would literally be my wish. So this is what you guys can do. Okay, I'm going to leave Scott's socials in the pinned comment, his Instagram, his YouTube, go spam his comment section, go spam his comment section with the words "GO ON GABBY'S CHANNEL&quot; in caps. Okay? Spam him you guys. You are my army, my audience army. Do you remember when we did that for lab math and beauty science? We did that for Lab Muffin Beauty Science once and she actually came on the channel. She responded was like, your audience is spamming me. And I was like, I didn't tell them to do that. Should we do the same for Scott? I mean, I don't want to get like a restraining order or anything, but I give you permission to go spam him because it would be so crazy if he was on the channel, wouldn't it? It would be so crazy. Should we do sell? Sure. By makeup? By Mario? Or should we do Bronx Baby? See, I know this is more J.Lo, but I usually look really bad with nude lips, but let's try it. Okay, let's just go outside of our comfort zone. see, whenever I do a color like this, I feel like it blends into my face and looks weird. I mean, I'm not Jennifer. I'm not iconic like that. I just always feel like I need more color on my lips. No, I'm going to leave it. Okay? What if we did this? What if we did makeup by Mario, miss Rose on top of it, just to punch it up a little bit? I can't do such a nude lip. Oh, now I'm going back to the color I always use, which is like mauve. I'm trying to really shear this out. Okay. You thought this was a video about Aquaphor and you were sadly mistaken? This is now a video about glam makeup 100%. My under eyes have never looked better. I've tried every hack. I have tried every damn hack. I've tried every single thing. My eye under eyes have never looked better. Look at them. Okay, let's do our big smile test where it's all creepy. Oh, okay. Okay. I like this so much better than I thought I would. I'm going to go do my hair and, you know, look more like event ready and then I'll be back. That's going to take me about an hour. So then we can see how this is settling down. Okay. I'll be back. Give me a second before we get glam. Here we are in natural light. No filter. You guys know. No filter. I'm in front of my window. You can see by the reflection in my mirror. It looks there's a little bit of creasing here, see? But I mean, come on. It looks really good compared to how my under eyes normally look. It looks really like really good. Oh, I have no words. I have no words other than the fact that I want to highlight my brow bone right now. I'm so fancy right now with nowhere to go. No joke. My under eyes have never, ever looked better. Ever. And I honestly think it's a combination of one using really great concealers, I finally honed down the best concealer. I finally figured it out. The best concealer that works for me. It's also definitely the Aquaphor. It's like the viscous nature of it, but it's not greasy. It kind of almost like acts like a filler to plump in those fine lines, almost like a spackle. Amongst all those fine lines, keeping everything moist enough that it doesn't start to get creepy. But then another super star product that I cannot believe I just discovered is this I would never, ever use this under my eyes. Ever. And I kid you not, this is the best. My foundation and my under eyes has ever looked. Ever. I'm dead. Okay, here we are again in natural light. After a few hours, I redid my lipstick, obviously because I've eaten and hung out. I have pretty oily skin too, so that kind of tells you something and I'm still finding my under eyes looking. Fantastic. So so much better than they normally look. After a few hours look, they're not even dry from that powder, which is really shocking. Wow. Life changing I tell you. Don't forget to go spam Scott Barnes and get them on this channel. This video is over.