- The brand isn't somethin' you earn. It's somethin' you live up to. You think you deserved Look at you now. (faint rock music) (Rip knocks) (crickets chirp) (door creaks) - You Jimmy? Dirk Hurdstrom's boy? - This is- I'll take that as a yes. (taser buzzes) (door creaks and thuds) You're a two-time loser, Jimmy. One more felony and they You know what? You might You got the lips for it. - You're either a servant and I ain't no fucking servant. - Nah, no, no. You're a thief. - Oh, what the fuck, Wait, wait, wait! Wait, wait, wait! Wait, wait! Fucking psycho, wait! - Jimmy, I'm gonna give you two choices. One is I take you and all this shit, and I drive you down to and it's good riddance to your sorry ass, or you prove that you From what I can see, you - You're with the Yellowstone? - It's gettin' cold, Jimmy. You know what? Fuck it. I'm taking you to the sheriff's. - Wait, just- - Why would John Dutton - He doesn't. But he will. Now, you be a man about it. Don't scream. (Jimmy breathes hard) (branding iron sizzles) You know where the ranch is? You start Monday. Travels like wildfire Good news travels slow They all call me Wildfire - That's you, shit stain. - I'm gonna wait for the water to warm. - You keep saying that I'm the one who's gotta sleep next to you. Take a fuckin' shower. - Cold shower's in your future, Jimmy. Till they hire someone new. So you might as well get used to it. Shit. We did. It's better than bein' dirty. - Gonna give it an hour. - You'll be asleep in an hour. You smell like a God damned goat. Get up. Get up. - Jesus! Hey, man. - Looks like you takin' - I'm goin'. Get the fuck off me. - Then fucking go. - Get off, get the- (Jimmy sighs) (upbeat country music) - You can take my shower It's plenty hot then. Besides, a little cold water don't bother me none. (upbeat country music continues) Well, from north to south East to west, the story's all the same (fire crackles) - Guess this shit wasn't no rumor, huh? - No. No rumor. - [Walker] Where does it go? - Right here. - That's a hell of a that only pays 400 a week. - It ain't about the money, - Trust, huh? - And all the boys have it? - No. Just us. Just the criminals. (fire crackles) - What if I don't? - Jimmy here will run you into It's not a &quot;have-to,&quot; And it's all yours. Don't Think of it as tenure. (fire crackles) - Fuck it. (branding iron sizzles) (dramatic music continues) - Welcome home. - Welcome to the Yellowstone. (upbeat country music) - I brought this for Kayce. - Oh, he left early. He's - Yeah, needs a lotta work. - Can someone give him a - We'll get him figured out. Good to have you here. - Why do they do it? The brand. Why do the cowboys do that? - Well, they, they don't all do it. Just the ones that got a second chance. I guess that's the way they - Is that why you did it to (door rattles) - Hey, why don't you, uh, why don't you run to the fat donut so your growlin' on the way home? - Can I get the biggest donut? - Biggest one in there, buddy. Go. (John chuckles) I'm afraid that's a longer conversation. - Well, if I'm gonna be I need to understand it. I need to understand why - He disobeyed me one too many times. - Disobeyed you how? - He told me he got some and he was gonna marry her. - So it was because of me. - I told him to take you to the clinic and not let you leave and he wouldn't do it. - So you had those cowboys brand him? - No, Monica, that I... That I did myself. (dramatic music) - Okay. I understand now. Thank you for your honesty. (dramatic music continues) (fire crackles) - Teeter. You ready? (crickets chirp) - You must've been - Do what? Why in the hell would you do that? - It's kind of a long story. - I got time. (rooster crows) Oh, shit. No, I don't. Move. Laramie, let's... Seriously? Hey, hey. Laramie. Wake up. We're late. Let's go. (Laramie giggles) - Gonna be a long day, (gentle country music continues) (water splashes) - Could I have a word, sir? - She talkin' to me? - I believe she said she wants a word. - I can't understand a damn Yeah? - Sir, whatever's between Walker and Lloyd, it's got nothin' to do with me. Nothin' to do with Laramie either. That was just their excuse. I was the first one up to be done. Ask him. Ask him if - She ain't lyin', sir. - So fight wasn't over you, huh? - No, sir. - Every day. with anyone in the bunkhouse? - Ain't no one said I couldn't. - Well, common sense says you shouldn't 'cause the next fight'll be over you. - So all that &quot;this is my Fuckin' scarred for life, - You wait over there a minute. When the hell did that happen? - The night that we in the forest for ya. - So, they all wear it? - Yes, sir. mind to fuckin' mention it to me? - It was the night before you got hit. Before everyone got hit. - Kayce know about this? - Sir, it ain't his fault. I shoulda come to you and talked to you. - Does he know? - Yes, sir, he does. - Jesus. - Teeter? Where's your gear at? - Everything I own's in - Go on and grab it. Put - Thank you. All right. I don't know, do you need help with shit? - Teeter, just go grab your gear. Yeah. - And hey. This means somethin'. - Yes, sir. (fire crackles) - A long time ago, cowboys would drift in and get work on some outfit, then disappear. A few months later, a whole chunk of the herd would disappear. It was the cowboys who started it. You find out real fast for the brand when they Our cattle stopped What that means today is: You're committing yourself to this ranch for the rest of your life. And this ranch is (dramatic music) You will have a home till the day you die or this ranch is no more. Hm. Now, that is somethin' worth fighting for. (dramatic music continues) - It's ready. - You're not stayin'? - Nah, this is between you Don't worry, I'll know (dramatic music continues) - Didn't know I had a choice. - You always have a choice. - What's the choice? - Another ride back to Wyomin'. But you ain't comin' (dramatic music continues) (door creaks) But I think that you'll slow down When your turn to hurt comes around - Holy shit! - Thanks. - Hurts pretty good now. - It's gonna be a different hurt. (men laugh) - Here you go. Cheers, boys. - Cheers. - Let's deal the kid in. - You got it.