With all the online protecting your financial data is one of secure your bank accounts and credit it's not that hard. I've talked about and after a lot of research and I'd like to share with you the best transactions and listen closely distinctions between these services that them. My name's Josh. This is all things secured and in this virtual payment option and then answer this stuff. And before I want to address the elephant in the KYC or Know Your Customer is a mandatory required to go through to identify and this means that if you're applying for like say a credit card, they're going a working phone number and address, and even an ID number like The virtual card options that I'm going three categories, all of which require there are those that act more like a which some people find uncomfortable. And then there are those that require your bank account, which can also make some people uneasy there are those that you just trust with prepaid card, whichever you choose. Just recognize that the purpose of doing by not giving out your actual website or store that asks for it, and Privacy.com is one of the most well available, and one of the great There's an integration with 1Password over the cards. You can create monthly spending limit One of the reasons why and they do have an upgraded premium but I think even the 10 that they give than enough. The things that I haven't use these cards on a mobile It's also restricted to US residents And here's what most people don't They don't like that they have to link with privacy and the implications with that connection to your bank. Klutch is the newest kid on but I've really enjoyed They offer unlimited virtual cards with used. Even being able to create cards for your limit the spending or at least monitor virtual credit cards and not debit which can be a good and a bad thing. One of the good things is that you can these cards, and again, it's free to use. It's being paid for by when you make purchases. The is that you are subject to KYC and the reason for this is because you're through Klutch, and then they're giving you access to through their app and IronVest is a service that I've just It used to be known as Blurb by Abine, but it's been spun off into its own The biggest difference is that instead IronVest makes it a prepaid debit card. the pros are that you're not subject to identity and do all of the cons are that it's prepaid. You have to top up the card and you have or debit card data to top it up. Another con is the limited You can only create these one They don't offer these and there are fees to so every time that you want to create a and then anything over a hundred dollars, And finally, this is still enough of the US residents which is open to Australia, Japan, and EU countries as well as United States You can use these virtual credit cards and it works very similar in terms of the of these cards and control The cons here are that you They're going to ask for a lot and it requires a connection to So at least to my knowledge, you can't just use your credit You have to give them access to your if you're one of those people that you might find this next option It's an easier way to use your crypto Litecoin, Ether, or Zcash. but you're taking and basically converting rate of your purchase in order It's really a one-time use card. You're not really creating a virtual card You don't have control over It's basically just a prepaid only for US residents. Sometimes the best option is the where you don't have to download a and that's where Apple Pay and PayPal You can use your current credit card purchases when you're doing something, let's say using like your Apple Pay credit Thing is when you put your actual credit make that payment. Apple does not give It's giving them a masked credit card token that says this is an okay payment, but they can't store your you're still cloaking Now there's really no ability to and you don't have control over how spending limits, but it is an option if you don't want to new. Now, the final option and that is to check whether or not virtual credit card options. Now, but it is going to be free and there requirements because your bank already not many banks are offering it's really not a very great option. great, and the number of cards that so you'll have to see what they offer and try to use or use one of these other Now, let me answer some of the questions that virtual credit card services. Do opening these kinds of And the answer is that in most cases, there is no credit pool because a lot cards. The exception here would be Klutch, one of the only actual virtual which only pulls your credit I also get asked if this affects your card, and the answer again, depends on the service. If you're purchases, then yes, you're still but if you're topping up a prepaid card then no, obviously you This is a very common question Every service that allows you to quickly card always allows you to continue to it's been turned off. In other words, if you bought some shoes on Amazon using that card down, you can still return those shoes and number. Money can be returned but it can no longer be charged. And for liability reasons, there's always risk involved in using do. The reason I like this option is, my actual credit card number is no longer around the world for every shop that I I noticed some bogus charges on my cancel that card, and I don't but now that it was stolen, The problem is that it took a couple weeks Not only was that inconvenient, I also didn't enjoy the time I had reversed. Do you have other We'll leave them in the comments below. I have links to all of the service that and if you'd like to see how to you can watch this video next.