Here's the thing, if you use Excel, you need to there is. It helps you automate your data of time and avoid errors, which is all we want, because it works in all Excel versions. So here's to know what VLOOKUP is, how it works, how you how you can look for an exact match or the you are going to know how to solve it. Okay, so and you need to pay close attention because I am sure you understood everything. So now let's start look at the most common use of VLOOKUP, which is and bring it over here. So in this example, we each customer's profession. That information is here. So we have customer names, phone number, and but it could be, like, in reality, it could to do this manually, right? You don't want to that you want, copy it or type it over here. You us do. So the first thing we need to do is to go typing in an equal sign and just start writing to see it pop up here. Use Tab to accept it, and we can see what this formula needs to be able to or the first argument as we call it, that it needs We're looking up Sid in this case. So we just using the argument separator in Excel. So in my semicolon. That's just going to depend on your the next thing that Excel needs is a table array should look it up in. Now that range must include that you want. So the column that has the answer, you have to select an entire range, which in one rule that you have to keep in mind: the range left-hand side of your result column. This means left-hand side of profession, and it is. That's index number. This is the column number that we so this is the first column, second column, third right? Because we want the third column returned. in Excel, anything in square brackets means that where a lot of people make mistakes, they ignore the formula works if I just press Enter. But is Sid is keyboard manager. If you're looking for optional for you, you have to go with FALSE, which I press Enter, it works correctly. Just something colleagues and you don't see them using FALSE that's not a mistake, that's also correct because need to have a zero or FALSE for this exact does it work? It kind of works, but it doesn't notice that my range, that area is shifting So if you're planning to copy down your formula, that, just select it and use the F4 key. Now when down, this works fine, my range isn't shifted. let's take a look at looking up value from another to look up each person's phone number. This time, called Data Numbers. So I have the person's name, VLOOKUP to work correctly, the lookup column has so to what I want returned. That is the case without problems. All I need to do is start typing table array is my range on the other sheet. So all sheet, we can see the sheet name popping up in the don't need to include profession because I'm only column and the phone number column. I'm planning F4 to fix this reference. Next, column index Name is number one, phone number is number two, person's phone number, so I put a two here. The an exact match, we have to go with FALSE or zero. phone number. Let's just double-click to send ends with 9988. Uhura 206, 9988. Next, let's take So this is typically used when it comes to looking each person's score, and we want to translate we don't have each possible number in the grade, has between 0 to 54 is going to get an E, anyone Excel, the way we provided the score and the bound value. So here's a zero, here's 55, 70, 80, just easier for us to understand what's happening. the value we're looking up is the score. Where are returned? We want to return the grade, that's the Now, you can happily ignore that last optional for an approximate match. So when I press Enter, this down? No, I need to fix this. I'm going to this down. So anyone who has 75 is going to get that you can't put in a TRUE. In fact, it makes match. Just one thing to keep in mind is that when make sure that your scores, that your values that Now let's take a look at some common errors you can correct these. It's also a good way to test if our video. I have customer IDs here, I've written on this range, but it's not working. US4556 is isn't it working? You probably guessed the answer, for the exact match. You can also type in zero, name, right? Blend for this US company ID. I want Ctrl + Z to go back, right? So here I'm returning but take a look at this. If I leave the formula as last argument is gone, is missing. If I go to my everything works properly. I get the right work properly, your lookup range has to be sorted you do this because someone could come along and up all the sorting or if an ID doesn't exist. So my lookup area here, I still return the closest least not in these types of cases, right? So I'm okay? So what we want to do is add FALSE or zero it works, this one doesn't work. Why? Well, okay, a sneaky error here. There is a space right after to work, I just have to remove the space, press and some of them might have a space, some of them I could wrap this part, this reference, the lookup function is going to trim any spaces at the I send this down, everything works like a charm. you might run into with VLOOKUP, and that's right and return the customer name. I've written the to return customer name, which is in the first why am I getting #N/A? Well, that's because the wrong side. For VLOOKUP to work correctly, this want returned. So now if I go to my function I get company ID back because I have to update send this down, everything works correctly. using the lookup. If you want a more flexible so you have Excel for Office 365, you can use the have this restriction. Now, another error you if a value doesn't exist, you're going to get can go ahead and correct this, or if you want to you can use the IFNA function, for example. So if returned? You could put it in quotations. We can and send this down. You end up with &quot;Not found&quot; the IFERROR function as well and send this down, of these did you figure out on your own? Let me works. I hope you're super confident, and if you if you have newer versions of Excel, if you have lookup function that Microsoft introduced, which it's more flexible. Now, I have different videos I'll add the links to the description of this watching, and if you enjoyed this video, you want to this channel if you aren't subscribed