(audience applauding) - [Kelly] Hello. - Hey, everybody. - [Kelly] Oh my gosh, welcome to the show. - Thank you. You look amazing. - Oh, thank you. I feel like I went on a 'cause I watched your - Oh, thank you. - Yes. I have to lead with this, because whatever, I'm an It is such a great song. - Oh, thank you. - &quot;Find Me Falling&quot; is so great. - Thank you, thank you. - Yes. - It was a really cool movie to do and one of the reasons I had is because I play a musician, but he's not the musician I am. - Yeah, very different. rethink the way I would write songs and the way I would sing songs. - [Kelly] Yeah. - And it was really cool. It was like I was writing but that was me. Like people have asked me and I actually love that, 'cause it takes you out of or that's cool, or whatever, and you- - But do you write it So you have this extraordinary instrument. - [Kelly] So that's the problem. - You can sing things that - Well, I will say range wise I didn't figure that out until later, but yeah, this one song and they were like, - But I can't sing it. - And I was like, oh, I But I was just thinking writing And this character is different, while it's a musician, he's and his last album kind of flopped, right? That's the whole start of it? - So yeah, I play this guy in the '80s and '90s, and then his career kind of died, and he really kind of looked at his life and realized he didn't have - Like substantial, yeah. - So he decides to leave everything behind and move to this tiny - I wanna live in that house. - It's amazing. - Yes. - So this guy, me, I buy on this remote cliff on And it happens to be... I won't tell the audience why, but I got a really good deal on the house, because the cliff that the house is on, - Has a notorious reputation. People go to this cliff to do - Horrible, but very funny plot point. - It's pretty funny. So I'm kind of disconnected from society, when I go I don't wanna and then over the course of the movie, I start seeing people and among them is this and if you like plot - [Kelly] Oh, didn't see - [Harry] There's a lot, there's a lot. - I was like... Just women keep showing up at this house. (audience laughing) And I didn't see it coming. - Why wasn't it like you know what I mean? (audience laughing) - No, don't you think that it's so rock and roll sometimes, and I'm like, dude, I get off stage and I go play Scrabble. - It's the opposite of what- - 'Cause you're so and you wanna be good, so you're kind of trying to be- - So there's different road so being on the road, I get on my tour bus and I just watch Nat Geo - Oh yeah, me too. - But Broadway, you have no life, because you're doing eight shows a week, and you really have to... You know this, right, like you could change up your set list, and you maybe can sing that song. - You change the key, you do things, yeah, yeah, yeah. I don't really know keys, I don't know the whole music thing. (audience laughing) - Sure, sure. - But on Broadway, you at that particular point so the life of a Broadway Kelly, I have to tell So I don't know if I've but the first time I ever saw you perform was at the finale of &quot;Idol.&quot; - Oh yeah. - And I was shooting &quot;Will - Yeah. - And I went with Debra Messing and a couple of other people, and I remember seeing you on the stage doing such amazing things, but I have to say, the highlight was when Justin Guarini (Kelly and audience laughing) and he waved at me, and I was looking at Debra (Kelly and audience laughing) - And I still remember that night though, it was so crazy, 'cause how big the show was. They kept us in a very tight bubble, and we were peaking out, you know, 19, peaking outside the curtain going like, &quot;Who's here? &quot;Maybe people are watching this.&quot; - Everyone was in the audience that night. - Yeah, it was very cool. Had laryngitis. - [Harry] That night? - Yeah. - Did people know that, is that a common- - Did you hear me sing? (audience laughing) It was a really rough... Everyone was like, oh, I was like, also because Yeah, I feel like it's you know what I'm saying? Especially when you have kids, you have other things it's like when you're on stage, you're trying to give your best, people are paying their hard earned money to come and see you, But it's rare when you have that night when everything's kind - No, you're right. And I really mean this, I think one of the reason's your as loved and successful as you are, is because I have a problem and tell the audience how they feel. I used to tell the kids on &quot;Idol,&quot; if you have a cold, I If you're too sick then stay home, and if you're not, you because that's what this business is. - You have to kind of lean in. they pay money to hear you sing. So if you're too sick, And so you had laryngitis that night, nobody knew it, you felt like crap, and you won our hearts. is everyone was emotional, So you just kind of, yeah, it was the tears. Debra Messing was, we were all crying. I was crying 'cause Justin (audience laughing) - I swear to God, I 'cause he didn't win. - No! (audience laughing) I mean, I'm sorry that he- - It would've gone way better, that joke. - Yeah, that's true. No, but he looked out there, he goes like, &quot;Hey,&quot; like - No, we felt really cool. You know we were like from nowhere. I was a waitress and I never thought anything would happen afterwards, So that was very cool. That was an incredible night, - It was. Well, it changed my life, didn't it? Here we are, back on TV. (audience applauding) We're having a look at his new This setting of this Did you enjoy Cyprus, like filming there? - Cyprus was a place I had never been to and I didn't know much about, but when we got there, we and I'm telling you, if anybody ever has a chance to go, it is absolutely incredible. I mean, talk about history. Like, one of the towns we were working in, we went to this, it was a marble pillar, and it was a white marble pillar, kind of in the middle of this yard, and I said, &quot;What is that?&quot; And they said, &quot;That is the pillar &quot;that St. Paul was tied to &quot;when he came to spread the And you think like- - What? - You know, it's just humbling to think that there's that much history. It's an incredible country. - Especially where we're from. We're so young comparatively speaking, so you go to these old- - Yeah, old to me was like the, you know- - Anything here is not old. - Yeah, there was such a good joke there that my brain just like- (audience laughing) - It was on the tip of our tongue, I didn't have anything either. Because you know, we don't comparatively speaking. So your character won't won't play the song until Are you like that in life, or will you show people - Oh, I love any chance I I just love to do that. You know, I've done it for so long, like when I was a little boy, the first time I played in I was like five years old, and I remember sitting on the piano, and I would play these keys, and look up, and people were fascinated by that, not because I was particularly good, it's just that there's a connection that you make with people. - You know, with music. So any chance I can to let My wife, Jill is the one And she's very honest with me. - Yeah. - I played her some new music not long ago and she said, &quot;Yeah, (audience laughing) - Oh my god, that's my kids. - But she was right. - No, my kids are like that - You need that. - You wanna make sure if - But are they right though? Like, do they ever make a point that you say, oh, he's got a point? - Well, it's funny, 'cause some things they'll be mind blown about, and be like, I wanna hear... They love my version We listen to it in June. It's embarrassing. We'll be somewhere and And I'm like, &quot;Come on, guys.&quot; Somebody might hear, we're in the car. But they love like random stuff, but things I think are gonna be so cool, they're like, mm, nah. - I have that with Jill too. - It's good to have those people. - Oh, it's great. But the thing is about Jill, my wife, she's always invariably right. - Oh, that's annoying. (audience laughing) I mean, it goes beyond music. - I mean, you can't say it's annoying, you've been married 30 But it's annoying. (audience applauding) - No, she's right. I mean, if she says thing... You know what a mix is, right? Like the piano might be too loud, or the drums might be you can fix things like that. But things like tempo, you can't fix. So she'll go, &quot;I think &quot;it needs to be slower.&quot; I'm like, &quot;Well, I can't do And she goes, &quot;Well, you (audience laughing) And she's right. And well, we'll get into it, I'm like, &quot;See, Jill, &quot;so there's things that I'm doing &quot;that you may not understand,&quot; and she'll leave, and I'm (audience laughing) - No, okay, my sister did this to me with the song &quot;Piece By Piece.&quot; I did the song and she saw the lyrics, and she was like, &quot;Oh my god, &quot;this might be one of my favorite and then she heard it and she was like, &quot;What do you mean?&quot; And I was like, &quot;What?&quot; And she was like, &quot;I And I was like, &quot;Oh no, it's got tempo.&quot; And she was like, &quot;Oh.&quot; (audience laughing) And then cut to I did it as a ballad 'cause I was pregnant and and it was last minute and it blew up! And it was like, she was right! (audience applauding) - She was right, but it's annoying. It's annoying. - I don't care how much music you know, none of that stuff matters, it's what people like, and I love the fact that 'cause that's rare. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, I'm going straight 'cause sometimes clearing and I loved &quot;Find Me Falling,&quot; so I have two questions, one- - Okay, that's the name - [Kelly] It is the name of the movie. - And it's a song that I wrote. - Well, let's talk about it, they actually changed because of your song. - [Harry] It was pretty cool. - Yeah! - So I'm not a guitar player, so this- - Liar! I saw you. - No, I mean, I play enough, but the cool thing about this guy is that he's not supposed to be very good, so I didn't have to be this virtuoso, so there's this amazing called Collings Guitars, and they sent me this guitar, and I just kind of played what I thought this guy would play, and it's just kind of a I'm trying to avoid- - [Kelly] Spoiling it? - Spoiling it, but literally falling, which there is a lot of in this movie. - Boy! - And emotionally falling. - [Kelly] Yeah. - Yeah. - It's a really weird - Yeah. - You gotta see the movie. - There's a lot of twists. - Wait, you're not getting out of this. So I want to cover that song - Oh, Kelly. can I one, either cover it, two, it would be really I'm just saying. (audience applauding) - [Harry] Listen. - If you wanna sing it, All you have to do is sing the melody. I will hold down the harmonies in it. - I don't really know harmony. - I do. Just 10 number one jazz albums, he has no idea of music theory. - So this is why it would be so cool, so Jill, my wife, told me this years ago, she has no talent as a (audience laughing) - Boy, you both are really - I can be honest with you too, Jill! (Kelly and audience laughing) Hey, why did Harry (Kelly and audience laughing) I said, &quot;If you could be anything else &quot;besides the incredible &quot;what would you be?&quot; She said, &quot;I think I'd be a pop singer.&quot; And I said, &quot;Okay, whose - [Kelly] No! - She said Kelly Clarkson. - Yes, she did. (audience applauding) She did. - She has great taste. that would be like- - Y'all having a duet. - Yes. - There you go. - So that would be as as she could ever fulfill. - I think two fantasies 'cause I really wanna sing it with you. I think I wanna sing it, but I think it would be a beautiful duet. - Are you kidding? I would love that. - Okay, well, the Olympics, we're just a few days away from it, okay, so what's your favorite sport to watch? What do you watch? - What's that one they do on the ice? This isn't the Winter Olympics, but what's that, curling? - Curling. So that's not happening right now. - I know, I know. - That's not happening. Like gymnastics? - Man, the gymnastics are- - [Kelly] Swimming? - I like the women's gymnastics, probably. - Me too. - Just 'cause it's like you can't believe the things they do on the balance beam. - I feel like it's CGI, it's not real. - Yeah! It's just unbelievable. - Yeah, I watch Simone Biles and just inferiority just sets in. It's just, I'm inferior as a human, yeah. - Yeah, I know. Have you ever been on a balance beam? - Yes, I did gymnastics as a kid. I wasn't great, I'm (audience laughing) - It's like that wide. I tried it as an adult. - I got a lot of junk in my trunk. - I walked across that son of a gun, I've never been so scared in my life. (audience laughing) - Yeah, no, that's not for me. But way to go, Olympians! We need another break. Harry's new movie is you can see it on Netflix. We've got a game celebrating we'll be right back.