- The whole point of relativity is to say there's when you're far away. And that is doubly true for And you might think, well, It's really not. It's some tens of thousands and billions of years old. So you don't need to of the speed of light to fill the galaxy. - The number of worlds is- - [Sean] Very big. - Very, very, very big. Where do those worlds fit? Where they go? - The short answer is, the worlds don't exist in space. Space exists separately in each world. - The following is a his third time in this podcast. He is a theoretical host of the Mindscape Podcast and highly recommend, and author of many books, including the most recent book series called &quot;The Biggest the first book of which is and it's on the topic And the second coming out on May 14th, so you should definitely pre-order it, is titled &quot;Quanta and Fields.&quot; And that one is on the Sean is a legit, active, and at the same time is one of physics ever. I highly encourage you read his books, and pre-order the new This was, as always, a big honor and a pleasure for me. This is Lex Fridman Podcast. To support it, please check out our And now, dear friends, here's Sean Carroll. In book one of the series, &quot;The Biggest Ideas in the Universe,&quot; called &quot;Space, Time and Motion,&quot; you take on classical mechanics, general relativity by of general relativity and making it accessible, So maybe at the high level, what is general relativity? What's a good way to start - Probably the best way to start to try to explain it is special relativity, which came first, 1905. It was the culmination of many decades of people putting things together. But it was Einstein in 1905. In fact, it wasn't even Einstein. I should give more credit So Einstein in 1905 figured out that you could get rid of the ether, the idea of a rest frame for the universe, and all the equations of with the speed of light being a maximum. But then it was Minkowski, who used to be Einstein's who realized the most elegant way of thinking about this idea of and time together into spacetime to really imagine that there is no hard and fast division of the in which we live into Einstein was at first dismissive of this. He thought it was just like, oh, the mathematicians But then he later realized it can have properties and in particular it can have a geometry. It can be curved from place to place. And that was what let him He had previously been about gravity from Newtonian mechanics, the inverse square law of gravity to his new relativistic theory. It didn't work. So the final leap was to say, gravity is the curvature of spacetime. And that statement is - And the tension with Minkowski - [Sean] Yes. - So it's the tension between In fact, in your lecture one of them, you say that Einstein than he gets credit for. - Yep. (Sean laughs) - I know that's hard. That's a little bit of - [Lex] Yeah. - Because we all give But then we also, partly based on fact but partly to make ourselves feel better, tell ourselves a story about how later in life There were younger people and quantum field theory and he was just sort of unable to really philosophically get And I think that that story about the latter part is completely wrong, like almost 180 degrees wrong. I think that Einstein as well as anyone, at least up through the 1930s. I think that his philosophical So he should actually seriously about that. And what he did, what he achieved in trying to think these problems through, is to really basically understand the idea of quantum entanglement, which is kind of important to understanding quantum mechanics. Now, it's true that in he placed his efforts in hopes for unifying electricity That didn't really work out very well. All of us try things that don't work out. I don't hold that against him. But in terms of IQ points, in terms of trying to be a he was really, really great. - What does greatness So how difficult is it to take the leap from special relativity to general relativity? How difficult is it to imagine that to consider spacetime together and to imagine that there's a - Yeah, that's a great question. I think that if you want to make the case Einstein's greatness, which is not hard to do, there's two things you point at. One is in 1905, his famous miracle year, he writes three different papers on three wildly different subjects, all of which would make you famous just for writing that one paper. Special relativity is one of them. Brownian motion is another one, which is just the little vibrations of tiny little dust specs in the air. But who cares about that? What matters is it proves He explains Brownian motion by imagining there are and deriving their properties. Brilliant. And then he basically starts the world on the road to quantum Which, again, is given a boring label of the photoelectric effect. What it really was is he invented photons. He showed that light should as well as waves. And he did all three of in one year. Okay. But the other thing that like you say, general relativity. So this takes 10 years from 1905 to 1915. He wasn't only doing general relativity. He was working on other things. He wrote... He invented refrigerator. He did various interesting things. and he wasn't even the only There were other people who suggested relativistic but he really applied himself to it. And I think as your question suggests, the solution was not a It was something fundamentally creative. In his own telling of the story, his greatest moment, his happiest moment was when he realized that if the way that we would if you were in a rocket at one acceleration due to gravity, if the rocket ship were very quiet, you wouldn't be able between being in a rocket ship and being on the surface of the earth. Gravity is sort of not detectable or at least not distinguishable So number one, that's a pretty clever thing to think. But number two, if you or I had that thought, we would've gone, &quot;Huh? We're pretty clever.&quot; Heath reasons from there to say, okay, if gravity is not detectable, then it can't be like an ordinary force. The electromagnetic force is detectable. We can put charge particles around. Positively charged particles and negatively charged to an electric field He realizes that what his or at least suggested, is that gravity isn't like that. Everything responds in How could that be the case? And then this other leap he makes is, oh, it's 'cause it's the It's a feature of spacetime. It's not a force on top of it. And the feature that it is, is curvature. And then finally, he says, &quot;Okay. Clearly, I'm gonna need the to describe curvature. I don't know them, so I will learn them.&quot; And they didn't have MOOCs or He had to sit down and and he taught himself and invented general relativity. - What about the step of including time as just another dimension? So combining space and time. Is that a simple mathematical - It's certainly not simple, actually. It's a profound insight. That's why I said I think we should give Minkowski more credit than we do. He's the one who really on special relativity. Again, many people had talked about how things change when you move what Maxwell's equations of electromagnetism predict and so forth, what their symmetries are. So people like Lorentz, and there's a story that goes there and in the usual telling Einstein sort of puts the capstone on it. He's the one who says all of If there just is no ether, it is undetectable. We don't know how fast thus, the name relativity. But he didn't take the actual final step, which was to realize that that he had invented is best thought of as unifying space and time together. I honestly don't know what was going through Minkowski's mind I'm not sure if he was that it was just clear to him, or he was really struggling it and he did trial and error for a while. I'm not sure. - I mean, do you, for him or Einstein, visualize the four dimensional space? Try to play with the idea of - Oh yeah. All the time. I mean, we, of course, make of the dimensions of space. So instead of four dimensional spacetime, we just draw pictures of one dimension of time, the so-called spacetime diagram. I mean, maybe this is lurking underneath your question, but even the best physicists and a horizontal axis and we'll go space, time. But deep down that's wrong because you're sort of and one direction of time. And it's really the whole that is spacetime. The more legitimate thing to draw on that picture are rays of light, are light cones from every point. There is a fixed direction of light would represent. And that is actually The division into space and for us human beings. - What is the difference between space and time from the perspective - It's the difference between X and Y when you draw axis on a piece of paper. - [Lex] So there's really no difference. - There's almost no difference. There's one difference which is the following. You have a curve in space. I'm gonna draw it horizontally 'cause that's usually what If you have a curve in space, you've heard the motto before that the shortest distance between two points is a straight line. If you have a curve in time, which is, by the way, literally all of our lives. We all evolve in time. So you can start with and another event in spacetime. What Minkowski points out is that the time you measure in the universe is precisely analogous to the distance you travel And by precisely, I mean, it is also true that the actual distance you travel through depends on your path. You can go a straight line, shortest distance and The time you measure in spacetime, the literal time that takes off on your clock but it depends on it the other way. So that the longest time between two points is a straight line. And if you zig back you take less and less time to go from point A to point B. - How do we make sense of that? The difference between and the objective reality or is objective reality a silly notion given general relativity? - I'm a huge believer I think that objective - [Lex] You're a fan. - Is real. - [Lex] Yeah. - But I do think that people kind of are a little overly between what we observe in the following sense. Of course, in order to explain the world, our starting point and our ending point is our observations, our experimental input, the phenomena we experience and see around us in the world. But in between, there's a theory, there's a mathematical formalization of our ideas about what is going on. And if a theory fits the and makes sense in its own terms, then we say that the theory is right. And that means that we to the entities that play an at least provisionally until we can come up with a - I think a nice way between objective reality and the observed reality of the horizon of a black hole. So, technically, as you time stands still, - Yes and no. It depends on exactly So here is a bunch of If you imagine there is so like the whole solution, and you treat you and me as So we don't have any We just move around in And that's obviously an approximation. Okay? But let's imagine that. And you stand outside the And as I'm falling in, I'm waving to you 'cause I'm going into the black hole, you will see me move more and more slowly. And also the light for me is redshift. So I kind of look embarrassed 'cause I'm falling into a black hole. And there is a limit. There's a last moment that from your perspective forever. Okay? Now, you don't literally see it because I'm emitting photons Because from your point of view. So it's not like I'm equally bright. I basically fade from Okay? So that's one approximation. The other approximation is I of my own. And therefore as I the black hole doesn't just sit there and let me pass through. It kind of moves out to eat me up because its net energy mass But roughly speaking, yes, I think so. I don't like to go to because that's where the But if you see something you see it's clock ticking - How do we know it fell in? - We don't. I mean, how would we? Because it's always possible that right at the last minute, it had a change of heart and starts accelerating away. If you don't see it pass in, you don't know. And let's point out that he never figured out black holes. And he could have. It's kind of embarrassing. It took decades for people to understand that there are because, basically, Einstein comes up with general relativity in 1915. Two years later, Schwarzschild, Karl Schwarzschild to Einstein's equation that the Schwarzschild solution. No one recognized it for what David Finkelstein and other people. And that's just one of these examples of physicists not being as - Well, that's the singularity, that's the kind of the edge So it's understandable that it's difficult to imagine the limit of things. - It is absolutely hard to imagine. And a black hole is very different in many ways from what we're used to. I mean, the real reason, between 1915 and 1955, there's a bunch of other things that are really interesting all of particle physics So many of the greatest But still, if the universe to general relativity in and it's kind of mysterious I would put some effort in - So how does a black hole work? Put yourself in the shoes of Einstein and take general relativity to its natural conclusion - It's best to think of a so much as a region of spacetime. Okay? It's a region with the property, at least in classical general relativity, quantum mechanics makes everything harder. But let's imagine we're being It's a region of spacetime that if you enter, you can't leave. Literally, the equivalent of escaping a black hole than the speed of light. They're both precisely equally difficult. You would have to move faster to escape from the black hole. So once you're in, that's fine. In principle, you don't even notice when you cross the event horizon, as we call it, the event horizon is where once you're inside, you can't leave. But meanwhile, the spacetime around you to ultimately a which means that the gravitational they tear your body apart and you will die in a The time it takes, if the black hole is to go from the event takes about 1000000th of a second. - And what happens to you if If we think of an object as information, that information gets destroyed. - Well, you've raised a So that's why I keep between black holes according to Einstein's theory general relativity, which is book one of which is perfectly classical. And then come the 1970s, we start asking about quantum mechanics and what happens in quantum mechanics. According to classical general relativity, the information that makes up you, when you fall into the black hole is lost to the outside world. It's there, it's inside the black hole, but we can't get it anymore. In the 1970s, Stephen Hawking comes along and points out that black holes radiate. They give off photons and other particles to And as they radiate, they lose mass and eventually, they evaporate, they disappear. So once that happens, I can no longer say the or a book that I threw in a black hole or whatever is still there. It's hidden behind the black hole 'cause the black hole has gone away. So either that information or it is somehow that is coming out to The large majority of people that the information is somehow and information is conserved. That is a feature both of and of quantum mechanics by itself. So when you put them together, that should still be a feature. We don't know that for sure. There are people who have doubted it, including Stephen Hawking for a long time. But that's what most people think. And so what we're trying which has generated many, many hundreds of papers called the black is figure out how to get or the book into the radiation that is escaping the black hole. - Is there any way to observe where you can start gaining insight? Or is this all just in the - Right now, we are nowhere close to observing Hawking radiation. Here's the sad fact. The larger the black hole is, the lower its temperature is. So a small black hole, like a microscopically small black hole might be very visible. It's given off light. But something like the black hole, the center of our galaxy, 3 million times the mass of the sun or something like that, Sagittarius, a star, that is so cold and low temperature that it's radiation will Black holes are hard to make. We don't have any nearby. The ones we have out there in the universe are very, very faint. So there's no immediate hope for detecting Hawking radiation. - Allegedly, we don't have any nearby. - As far as we know, we don't have any nearby. - Could tiny ones be hard to detect at the edges of - So you don't want them to be too tiny or they're exploding, or they're very bright and then they'll be visible. But there's an absolutely a regime where black holes are large because the larger ones are fainter, not giving off radiation, but small enough to not been detected through their gravitational effect. Yeah. - Psychologically, just emotionally, how do you feel about black holes? They scare you. - I love them. I love black holes. But the universe weirdly makes it hard to make a black hole because you really need to of matter energy into a very, So we know how to make a super massive star can We know we also have these the center of a galaxies. We're a little unclear I mean, maybe stellar black holes that got together and combined. But that's one of the exciting things about new data from the that quite large black holes seem to exist relatively early in So it was already difficult to figure out where they came from. Now, it's an even tougher puzzle. - So these super massive somewhere early on in the universe. I mean, that's a feature, not a bug, right? That we don't have too many of them. Otherwise, we wouldn't to form the little pockets of complexity that we'll call humans. - I think that's fair. Yeah. It's always interesting but happens anyway. I mean, the probability of making a black hole it could have been one. But it's this interesting which is kind of fun. - Are there more intelligent than there are super massive black holes? - Yeah, I have no idea. But I think your intuition is right, that it would've been easy for there to be lots of civilizations and then we would've noticed So, absolutely, the simplest explanation for why we haven't is - Yeah. I just think it's so easy I understand that's the but also- - How easy is it to make life or you carry other life - It seems like life finds a way. Intelligent alien civilizations, sure, maybe there is a really, really hard leap. But once you start life, once you get the origin of life, it seems like life just in every condition. It just figures it out. - I mean, I get it. I get exactly what you're thinking, I think is a perfectly before you confront the data. I would not have expected I would've expected there to be plenty of very noticeable extraterrestrial But even if life finds a way, even if we buy everything you say, how long does it take What if it typically takes Then we'd be alone. - So it's a time thing. So to you, really, most likely, there's no alien I can't see it. I believe there's a ton of them. And there's another explanation - I don't believe that very strongly. Look, I'm not gonna I'm both pretty up in or not life itself is all over the place. It's possible. When we visit other worlds, other solar systems, there's very tiny but none of it has It's also possible just there isn't any. It's also possible that there that have better things to So I think we should be very humble about these things we - And it's also possible where there's something fundamental about once the civilization develops complex enough technology, that technology is more to destroy everybody versus - That is absolutely possible. I'm actually putting less because you need it to If even one... I mean, this goes back to that you don't need to send You can build self-reproducing probes and send them around the galaxy. And you might think, well, It's really not. It's some tens of thousands and billions of years old. So you don't need to move of light to fill the galaxy. - So if you were an the dictator of one, you would just send out a lot of probes, self-replicating probes- - A hundred percent. - And just spread out. - Yes. And what you should do? So if you want the optimistic spin, here's the optimistic spin. People looking for intelligent with their radio telescopes, right? At least we did before our That's not a very promising way to find intelligent life elsewhere. Because why in the world would a super intelligent alien of its energy by beaming into the sky? For one thing, it just passes you by. So if we are here on earth, we've only been listening to radio waves for a hundred or a couple So if intelligent alien for a billion years, they have to pinpoint to send us this signal. It is much, much more and to park to go to just sit there and wait for to arise in that solar system. This is kind of the 2001 I would be less surprised to find sort of quiescent alien artifact in to catch a radio signal from - So you're a sucker for in-person conversations versus remote. - I just want to integrate over time. A probe can just sit there and wait, whereas a radio wave goes right by you. - Hmm. How hard is it for an alien civilization, again you have the dictator of one, to figure out a probe that is most likely to with whatever it finds? - Couldn't I be like - Elected leader, democratic leader, elected leader of a democratic - I think we would figure out that language thing pretty quickly. I mean, maybe not as quickly as we do when different because, obviously, there's in humanity. But there is logic in math and there is the physical world. You can point to a rock and go rock. I don't think it would take that long. I know that &quot;Arrival&quot; movie based on a Ted Chiang story that aliens communicate is going to be fundamentally different, but also they had recognition and other things I don't believe in. So I think that if we that will not be our long-term problem. - One of the places you're and they approach the question of complexity in many different ways and ask the question of what is life thinking broadly. So to you would be able to find it, you'll think you show up, a probe shows up to a planet, we'll see a thing and be like, &quot;Yeah, - Well, again, if it's intelligent and technologically advanced, the more short-term question of if we get some spectroscopic so we know a little bit about how can we judge whether or not that atmosphere of life existing? That's a very hard question I mean, one very simple-minded, but perhaps interesting small molecules don't tell you anything because even if life could make them, something else could also make them. But long molecules, that's the kind of thing - So, signs of complexity. - [Sean] Mm-hmm. - I don't know. I just have this nervous feeling that we won't be able to detect. We'll show up to a planet. They have a bunch of liquid on it. We dip, we take a swim in the liquid, and we won't be able to But whether that intelligence looks like something like ants, or we'll see movement but we won't be able to or communicate with it. I guess if we have nearly to play with different ideas, we might be able to. - I mean, I'm in favor this intellectual humility because we should be But I do always keep that we all live in the Well, let's put it this way. The development of our intelligence has to our ability to manipulate And so I would guess without a hundred percent but my guess would be of life would also have that capability. Both dolphins and octopuses are potential But I think in the details, there would be enough similarities that we would recognize it. - I don't know how we got on this topic, but I think it was from So if we return to black holes and talk about the holographic You have a recent paper on the topic. You've been thinking about the topic in terms of rigorous research perspective and just as a popular book writer. So what is the holographic principle? - Well, it goes back to this question that we were talking and how it gets out. In quantum mechanics, certainly, arguably, even before in classical statistical mechanics, there's a relationship between Entropy is my favorite that I've written books about and we'll continue to write books about. So Hawking tells us that and it's a finite amount of entropy. It's not an infinite amount. But the belief is, and now we're already the belief is that the entropy of a black hole is the that you can have in It's sort of the most densely And what that means is there's of information that you can and you call it a black hole. And interestingly, you and I'm gonna put information in it. and I don't tell you how I'm but I ask, how does the information with the size of the box? You might think, well, it because the information and I can only fit in a certain amount. And that is what you might but it's not what the answer is. The answer is that the maximum information as reflected in the black hole of the black holes event horizon, not the volume inside. So people thought about that in both deep and superficial ways for a long time. And they proposed what we now call the that the way that spacetime and quantum gravity convey information or hold information is not different bits or qubits for quantum information at every point in spacetime. It is something holographic, which means it's sort of or can be thought of as pertaining to, or one dimension less of space that we live in. So in the case of the black hole, the event horizon is in a three dimensional universe. And the holographic of the information contained in the black hole can on the event horizon rather than in the I need to say one more thing about that, which is that this was an idea. What the idea I just told you was the original holographic by people like Gerard't the super famous physicist. Leonard Susskind was on my He's very, very good at - Mindscape Podcast. - Mindset Podcast. - Everyone should listen my podcast. - [Sean] That's right, yes. - [Lex] And you don't - [Sean] I don't. - [Lex] I love Mindscape. - [Sean] Oh, thank you very much. - [Lex] Curiosity-driven. - [Sean] Yeah, ideas- - Exploration of ideas. Yeah. But anyway, what I was and also at Hooft, we're a little vague. They were a little hand and what it meant, where holography, the idea that information on a boundary really came into its own was with Juan Maldacena in the 1990s and the AdS/CFT correspondence, which we don't have to get but it's a whole full blown theory of... It's two different theories. One theory N dimensions of And another theory in N+1 dimensions of spacetime with gravity. And the idea is that this N dimensional into the N+1 dimensional universe to make it look like it has gravity. And that's holography with a vengeance. That's an enormous source of interest for theoretical physicists these days. - How should we picture The fact that you can you could think of as all the information that goes into a black hole can be stored at the event horizon. - Yeah, I mean, it's a good question. One of the things that quantum field theory that there's not that and me compared to the volume As far as quantum field you and I are mostly empty space. And so we are not The density of information in us or in a book or a CD or whatever, computer RAM is indeed encoded by volume. There's different bits located but that density of Just like the speed of light or just like the big bang, for the information in a black hole, we are far away in our everyday where these questions become relevant. So it's very far away from our intuition. We don't really know how to We can do the math, but we don't feel it in our bones. - So you can just write off in a black hole. to do better, but we're trying. I mean, that's why we have because we haven't completely solved it. So here, just one thing to keep in mind. Once spacetime becomes flexible, which it does according and you have quantum mechanics which has fluctuations and things like that, the very idea of a location in spacetime becomes a little bit fuzzy 'cause it's flexible and quantum mechanic says So information can propagate in ways that you might not have expected. And that's easy to say and it's true, but we haven't yet come up with the right way to talk about it that is perfectly rigorous. - But it's crazy how dense with and then plus like to come into play. So you almost want to romanticize the kind of interesting computation type things that are going on inside the black hole. - You do, you do. I'll point out one other thing. It's information-dense, but it's also very, very high entropy. So a black hole is kind of like a very, very, very It takes a lot of digits to specify it, but the digits don't tell you anything. They don't give you So it takes a lot of information, but it's not of a form that - But hypothetically, I guess as you mentioned, the information might be preserved, the information that it doesn't get destroyed. So what does that mean when the entropy is really high? - Well, the black hole... I said that the black hole of information, but it's not the highest because the black hole can evaporate. And when it evaporates and people have done when it evaporates, the entropy that it turns than the entropy of the black hole was, which is good because entropy is supposed to go up, but it's much more dilute. It's spread across a So in principle, all that you made the black hole out of, the information that it took in that information, but it's scattered to the four winds. - We just talked about the What's on the inside? What's at the center of it? - No one's been there. - [Lex] It came back to tell. - Again, this is a theoretical prediction, But I'll say one super crucial feature of the black holes that we know and love, that the kind that short there's a singularity, but it's not at the Remember space and time or parts of one unified spacetime. The location of the singularity in the black hole is but our future. It is a moment of time. It is like a Big Crunch. The Big Bang was an in the past. Big Crunch probably doesn't exist, but if it did, it would be a collapse to a That's what the interiors You can be fine in the interior, but things are becoming Spacetime is becoming more and more warped and eventually you hit a limit and that's the singularity in your future. - I wonder what time is like - Time always ticks by That's all it can ever do. Time can tick by differently And so you have things where two people initially one goes off, the speed of light and comes back, now they're not. You can even work out and comes back will be younger because they did not take But locally, as far as you and your wristwatch are concerned, time is not funny. Your neurological signals in your brain, and your heartbeat, and your wristwatch, whatever's happening to them is happening to all of them at the same time. So time always seems to be - Well, if you fall into a black hole and then I'm an observer just watching it, and then you come out once it evaporates a million years later, I guess you'd be exactly the same age. Have you aged at all? - You would be converted into photons. You would not be you anymore. - Right. So it's not at all possible that information is preserved - It depends on what It's there in the microscopic It's exactly as if I took a regular book, made a paper and I burned it. The laws of physics say that all the information in the heat, and light, and ashes. You're never going to get it. It's a matter of practice, but in principle it's still there. - But what about the age of things from the observer perspective from outside the black hole? - From outside the black because they're inside the black hole. - No. Okay, there's no way to except to let it evaporate, to let it evaporate. - But also, by the way, just in relativity, special relativity, forget about general relativity, it's enormously tempting to say, okay, here's what's happening to me right now. I wanna know what's The whole point of relativity is to say there's no such thing as right now when you're far away. And that is doubly true for So you're tempted to say, well, how fast is their clock ticking? Or how old are they now? Not allowed to say that - 'Cause space and time and so it doesn't even make sense. What happens to Tom in - As far as we know, nothing dramatic happens. We're not anywhere that we know what's going on here yet. So there are good unanswered questions about whether time is fundamental, whether time is emergent, whether it has something to whether time really exists at all, different theories, different proponents of different things. But there's nothing that would make us change whatever they happen to be. - But holography is fundamentally about... It's a question of space. - It really is, yeah. - Okay. So time is just like a- - Time just goes along for Yeah. - So all the questions about time is just almost whether it's emergent and - Yeah, I mean that might be a reflection of our ignorance right now, but yes. - If we figure out a lot millions of years from now about black holes, how surprised would you be? If they traveled back in time and told you everything you how much do you think and how mind blowing would it be? - Mm. It does depend on what they would say. I think that there are colleagues of mine who think that we're pretty how information gets out of black holes, how to quantize gravity, things like that. I'm more skeptical that I think that there's room for So in that sense, I suspect I would be surprised. The biggest and most interesting if quantum mechanics itself by something better. As far as I know, there's no empirical that quantum mechanics is not but it might not be. That's always possible. And there are again who speculate about it. That's the first thing I'd wanna know. - Oh, so like the black hole would be the most clear illustration- - [Sean] Yeah, that's - If there's something - So, I mean, maybe the point is that black holes are So, yeah, if our best theory that might help explain why. - But do you think it's possible we'll find something interesting, like black holes sometimes or black holes are a kind to another place or something like this? And then our whole conception of what is the fabric of 'cause black holes, it's like Swiss cheese type of situation. - Yeah, that would be 'cause I've already We don't have, again, that the interior of black But it is possible and it's also very possible that that's true for some black This is stuff we don't know. It's easy to ask questions The problem is, the questions that are easy to ask that we don't know the answer to, are super hard to answer. - Because these objects are very difficult to test and to explore for us. - The regimes are just very far away. So either literally far away in space, but also in energy, or - You've published a paper or that involves the but can you explain the details of that? - Yeah, I'm always interested in, since my first published paper, taking these wild speculative ideas and trying to test them against data. And the problem is, when you're dealing with they're usually not well-defined enough to make a prediction. I know it's gonna happen in some cases. I don't know what's gonna So we did the following thing. As I've already mentioned, the holographic principle, which is meant to reflect in black holes seems to be There's less information, less stuff that can go on So let's upgrade, naively expect to predict Quantum field theory is our best theory of fundamental physics right now. Unlike this holographic black hole stuff, quantum field theory is entirely local. In every point of space, something can go on. And then you add up all the Okay, not holographic at all. So there's a mismatch for what is happening even in empty space in versus what the holographic How do you reconcile these two things? So there's one way of doing it that had been suggested pre previously, which is to say that in the quantum field it implies there's a a whole bunch more ways than there really are. I'll do a little bit of math just 'cause there might be some who like the math. If I draw two axes on a like the surface of the table, you know that the whole point of it being two dimensional that are perpendicular to each other. I can't draw three vectors that are all perpendicular to each other. They need to overlap a little bit. That's true for any numbers of dimensions. But I can ask, okay, how much do they have to overlap? If I try to put more then the dimensionality can I make them almost And the mathematical answer is, as the number of dimensions you can fit a huge extra that are almost So in this case, what we're suggesting is, the number of things that of space is correctly It is somewhat over counted but that's because the quantum not exactly perpendicular to each other. I should have mentioned states are given by vectors in some huge dimensional vector space, very, very, very, very large So maybe the quantum not quite perpendicular to each other. If that is true, that's a speculation already. But if that's true, how would you know? What is the experimental deviation? And it would've been if we had gone through and found that there is no noticeable experimental difference because, again, these things are in regimes very, very far away. We stuck our necks out. We made some very, very specific guesses as to how this weird overlap of states would show up for particles like neutrinos. And then we made predictions on how the neutrinos of those wild guesses. And then we compared them with data. And what we found is, we're pretty close, but haven't yet reached the detectability of the effect that we are predicting. In other words, well, basically, one way of if a neutrino, and there's reasons why it's neutrinos, we can go into if you want, but it's not that interesting. If a neutrino comes to us from some galaxy very, very far away, there is a probability as it's traveling that it will dissolve into other neutrinos because they're not really as vectors as they would ordinarily be in quantum field theory. And that means that if you look at neutrinos with high enough energies, they should disappear. Like if you see a whole but then further away, you should see fewer. And there is an experiment called IceCube, which is this amazing of human beings where And they drill holes and they put photo detectors on a string, a mile deep in these holes. And they basically use I don't know whether it's a a mile or not, but it's like a kilometer some big region. That much ice is their detector. And they're looking for or a neutrino or whatever water molecule in the ice. - Makes it with flashes in the ice. They're looking for- - They're looking for flashes in the ice. - But isn't there some crazy... I mean, what does the - It's a bunch of strings, many, many, many strings with - Yeah. - And you'll- - That's really cool. - It's extremely cool. And they've done amazing work. And they find neutrinos. - They're looking for neutrinos. - Yeah, so the whole point is most cosmic rays are protons because why? Because protons exist and they're massive enough that you can accelerate them to very high energies. So high energy cosmic They also tend to hit and decay into other particles. So neutrinos, on the other hand, punch right through, at least usually to a great extent. So not just Antarctica, but the whole earth. Occasionally, a neutrino will interact with a particle here on earth and his neutrino is going from the sun, from the And so if you're patient enough and you have a big enough part to look at, the nice thing about So you've built yourself, nature has built you a neutrino detector. IceCube does. - So why ice? So is it just because of the low noise and you get to watch this thing and it's- - It's much more dense than air, but it's transparent. - So yeah, much more dense. So higher probability and then it's transparency and then it's also in so you can... Humans are great. There's not that much ice, right? - Yeah. - So humans take the best. in Arctic than anywhere else. So anyway, you can go and you can get a plot from How many neutrinos there with very high energies? And we predict in our weird that there should be a cutoff. You should see neutrinos as you get to higher and higher energies and then they should disappear. If you look at the data, their data gives out That doesn't mean that It means they lose the exactly where we predict - Oh boy, okay. But why is there a limit? - Oh, just because there are fewer, fewer high energy neutrinos. So there's a spectrum and it goes down, but that what we're of neutrinos versus energy. It's fading away and they just get very, very few. - And you need the high energy neutrinos for your prediction. - Our effect is a little bit Yeah. - Got it. And that effect has to do with this almost perpendicular thing. - And let me just mention who was a postdoc who led this. He deserves the credit for doing this. I was a co-author and a collaborator. I did some work, but he really gets the lion's share. - Thank you, Oliver. Thank you for pushing Just to speak to the meta process of it. How do you approach and trying to formulate as a paper, as an experiment to that all that kind of stuff? What's your process? - There's a very interesting things that happens once you're Once you become trained, you're a graduate student, you've written some papers and whatever, suddenly you are the world's expert in a really infinitesimally and you know not that There's an overwhelming temptation to just drill deep. Just keep doing basically the But maybe that thing the most interesting thing to the world or to you or whatever. So you need to separately of stepping back and going, okay, now that I can write papers in that area, now that I'm sort of trained enough in the general procedure, what is the best match between and what is actually interesting? And honestly, I've not over my career. My process traditionally was I was working in this general area of general relativity, cosmology. And I would sort of try to take things other and ask myself whether or So I guess I have three that have done super well in terms of getting cited One was my first ever paper that I get very little credit for. That was my advisor and his collaborator set that up. The other two were basically my idea,. One was right after we discovered that the universe was accelerating. So in 1998, observation showed that not but it's expanding faster and faster. So that's attributed to either Einstein's cosmological constant or some more complicated some mysterious thing And people were throwing around ideas about this dark energy stuff, what could it be and so forth. Most of the people throwing around these ideas were cosmologists. They work on cosmology. They think about the universe all at once. Since I like to talk to I was sort of more familiar than average with what a respectable working think about these things. And what I immediately thought was you guys are throwing These theories are wildly unnatural. They're super finely tuned. Like any particle physicist to be talking about this. But rather than just scoffing at them, I sat down and asked myself, okay, is there a respectable version? Is there a way to keep the but also make the universe accelerate? And I realized that there of models that is relatively natural. And guess what? You can make a new experimental prediction on the basis of those. And so I did that. People were very happy about that. - What was the thing that that would make sense that the people call dark energy? - So the fact that dark energy and is slowly changing, that should immediately because particle physics and time scales that are Particles are small. They vibrate quickly. And you're telling me and its typical rate of change is once every billion years. Like that's just not natural. And indeed, you can formalize that and say, look, even if that evolved slowly if you let it interact with that would make it move faster as dynamics would be faster as mass would be higher, So there's a whole story. Things need to be robust, and they all talk to each So how do you stop that from happening? And the answer is symmetry. You can impose a symmetry that protects your new field from talking to any other fields. Okay? And this is good for two reasons. Number one, it can keep the dynamics slow. You can't tell me why it's slow. You just made that up. But at least it can because it's not talking And the other is, it makes it harder to detect. Naively, experiments or time changes of fundamental like the charge of the electron, these experiments should have been able to detect these dark energy fields. And I was able to propose a way - The detection. - The detection, yeah. Because a symmetry could stop it from interacting with and therefore it makes And just by luck, I realized, 'cause it was actually based there's one loophole. If you impose these symmetries, so you protect the dark energy field from interacting with any other fields, there's one interaction that is still allowed And it is a very specific interaction between your dark energy which are very common, and it has the following effect. As a photon travels the photon has a polarization whatever it happens to be. And as it travels through the dark energy, that photon will rotate its polarization. This is called birefringence. And you can kind of run the numbers and say you can't make a because we're just making up this model. But if you want to roughly fit the data, you can predict how much polarization, rotation there should be, a couple of degrees. Okay? Not that much. So that's very hard to detect. People have been trying to do it. Right now, literally, we are on the edge of either or rule it out using the And there is just truth in advertising. There is a claim on the market that it's been detected that it's there. It's not very statistically significant. If I were to bet, I think it would probably go away. It's very hard thing to observe. But maybe as you get cleaner and cleaner analysis, it will persist and we will have directly - So if we just take this people will sometimes bring up dark energy and dark matter as an example lost their mind. We're just going to say that permeates everything. It's unlike any other and it helps us work out some of the math. How do you respond to that? Those kinds of suggestions. - Well, two ways. One way is those people would've had to say the same thing when we because it's exactly analogous where we have a very good theory. In that case, Newtonian gravity in the solar system. We made predictions. The predictions were of the outer planets. You found that you could by positing something very simple, one more planet in a very, And you went and looked for it and there it was. That was the first successful example of finding dark matter in the universe. - It's a matter. though we can't see. - A dune was dark. - Yeah. - There's a difference between Dark matter, as far as is a particle of some sort. It's just a particle that So we know how much of it there is. We know more or less where it is. We know some of its properties. We don't know specifically what it is. It's not anything It's a particle. Dark energy is a different story. So dark energy is, indeed, and has this very weird to evolve as far as we can tell. It's the same amount of energy in every cubic centimeter of space from moment to moment in time. That's why far and away, the leading candidate for dark energy is Einstein's The cosmological constant a hundred percent constant. The data say it had better So a hundred percent And it's also very robust. It's just there. It's not doing anything. It doesn't interact with It makes perfect sense. Probably the dark energy is The dark matter, super it was hypothesized at first in the seventies and eighties, mostly to explain the Today, the evidence for dark than it was in the 1980s It is mostly from observations of the cosmic background radiation or of large scale structure. So we have multiple also gravitational lensing Many, many pieces of evidence that say that dark matter is there and also that say that the effects of dark matter are different So that was my first dark matter we have a lot of evidence for. But the other one is, of course, we would love it if it Our vested interest is a with it being something more cool and interesting than dark matter because dark matter's just a particle. That's the most boring thing in the world. - And it's non-uniformly - Absolutely. Yeah. You can even see maps of it that we've constructed - So verifiable sort of clumps that explains stuff. - Bigger than the galaxy, sadly. We think that in the galaxy, dark matter is lumpy, but it's weaker. It's effects are weaker. But of the scale of large scale structure and clusters of galaxies yes, we can show you - Could there be a super cool that would be interesting as opposed to just another particle that - The super cool explanation rather than inventing a new particle. Sadly, that doesn't really work. We've tried, I've tried. That's my third paper I tried to unify dark matter and dark energy together. That was my idea. That was my aspiration, not even idea. I tried to do it. It failed even before we wrote the paper. I realized that my idea did not help. It helps... It could possibly explain but it would not explain And so I thought it was not And then two different &quot;Has anyone thought of this idea?&quot; Like they thought of exactly the same idea completely independently of me. I said, &quot;Well, if three the same idea, maybe it is interesting,&quot; and so we wrote the paper And yeah, it was very interesting. People are very interested in it. - Can you describe this It's fascinating how much of a thing there is dark and we don't quite understand it. So what was your dive into - So here is what we know about They become important in regimes where gravity is very, very, very weak. That's kind of the opposite from what you would expect if you actually were modifying gravity. There's a rule of thumb in That new effects show up when the effects are strong. We understand weak fields. We don't understand strong fields. But okay, maybe this is different, right? So what do I mean by when gravity is weak? The dark energy shows up late in the history of the universe. Early in the history of the universe, the dark energy is irrelevant. But remember the density of The density of matter So at early times, the dark energy was completely irrelevant compared to matter and radiation. At late times, it becomes important. That's also when the universe is dilute and gravity is relatively weak. Now, think about galaxies. Okay? A galaxy is more dense in the middle, less dense on the outside. And there is a phenomenological that in the interior of galaxies, you don't need dark matter. That's not so surprising 'cause the density of stars and the dark matter is just subdominant. But then there's generally a radius inside of which you don't need dark of which you do need dark So that's, again, when So I asked myself, of course, we know in field theory, new effects should show up when but let's throw that out of the window. Can I write down a theory where gravity alters when it is weak? And we've already said what gravity is. What is gravity? It's the curvature of spacetime. So there are mathematical that measure the curvature of spacetime. And generally, you would say like, I have an understanding which I explained to relates the curvature of The more matter and energy, the more curvature. So I'm saying what if you that says the less matter and energy, the more curvature. No reason to do that except to fit the data. So I tried to unify the and the need for dark. - That would be really - Super cool, right? It'd be the best. It'd be great. Well, it didn't work. - It'd be really interesting when there's not much of it. Like almost like at the edges of it, it gets noisy. - That was exactly the hope. But the great thing about I mean, you can come up with words and you can wave your hands, but then you gotta write And I figured out that it could help with the dark energy. The acceleration of the universe, it doesn't help with dark matter at all. - Yeah. It just sucks that the scale of galaxies and scale of solar systems, the physics is kind of boring. - Yeah, it does. I agree. And again, that's why I tear my hair out when people who are not physicists think, accuse physicists, like you say, of sort of losing the plot because they need dark I don't want dark matter and dark energy. I want something much cooler than that. I've tried. But you gotta listen to the - You mentioned three papers, your first ever, your first awesome paper ever and your second awesome paper ever. Of course, you wrote many papers. You're being very harsh on the others. - Well, by the way, This is impact, right? Sure. - There's no correlation Some of my best papers - [Lex] Tree falls, the force. Yeah. The first paper was called and Parity Violating Modification of Electromagnetism or Electrodynamics.&quot; So we figured out how to which is the symmetry And the important thing is that didn't violate anything else and was experimentally testable. So people love that. The second paper was called &quot;Quintessence and the Rest of the World.&quot; So quintessence is this The rest of the world is because I was talking about how the quintessence field would interact with other particles and fields and how to avoid the And the third paper was called &quot;Is Cosmic Speed Up Due Something like that. So you see the common theme, I'm taking what we know, the standard model of particle tweaking them in some way and then trying to fit the data. - And trying to make it so it's experimentally validated. - Ideally, yes, that's right. That's the goal. - You wrote the book on the Mysteries of Quantum Mechanics&quot; and a new book coming &quot;Biggest Ideas in the called &quot;Quanta and Fields.&quot; So that's focusing on quantum mechanics. Big question first, biggest ideas in the universe. What to you is most beautiful or perhaps most mysterious - Quantum mechanics is a harder one. I wrote a textbook on general relativity and I started it by saying, general relativity is most ever invented. And I will stand by that. It is less fundamental but quantum mechanics is It's a little bit kludgy right now. If you think about how we to our students, the it's a god awful mess. No one's gonna accuse that I'm a fan of the many of quantum mechanics and that is very beautiful in the sense that fewer ingredients, just one equation, and it could cover It depends what you mean by beauty. But I think that the quantum mechanics can start with extraordinarily and in principle lead to the world. That boggles my mind. It's like much more comprehensive about gravity and that's great, quantum mechanics about everything and seems to be up to the task. And so I don't know, is that beauty or not? But it's certainly impressive. - So both for the theory, the predictive power of the theory and the fact that the theory creating everything we see around us. - It's a monist theory I have a particle here, particle there. I describe them separately. I can tell you what this particle's doing, what that particle's doing. In quantum mechanics, we have entanglement, as Einstein pointed out to us in 1935. And what that means is, there is a single state There's not one state for this particle, one state for the other particle. And indeed, there's a single state for the whole universe of the universe, if you wanna call it that. And it obeys one equation and is our job then to sort of chop it up, to carve it up, to figure out how to get tables and chairs and things like that out of it. - You mentioned the many and it is, in fact, beautiful, but it's one of your you stand behind. You've probably gotten - I'm a big boy. I can take it. - Well, can you first explain it and then maybe speak the - Sure. The classic experiment to explain quantum mechanics to people is called the You're measuring the spin of a particle. Okay? And in quantum mechanics, the spin is just a spin. It's the rate at which in a very down to earth sense. The difference being So for something like a single electron or a single neutron, it's either spinning Those are the only two, let's put it this way. Those are the only two you will ever get. There's no it's spinning faster or slower, is either spinning one That's it. Two choices. Okay? According to the rules I can set up an electron, let's say, in a state where it is or counterclockwise, but a super position of both. And that's not just because we don't know the answer. It's because it truly is And then when we measure it, we see one or the other. So this is the fundamental is that how we describe the system when we're not looking at it, is different from what we So we teach our students of thinking is that the of the electron causes a radical change in the physical state. It spontaneously collapses of clockwise and counterclockwise to being one or the other. And you can tell me the but that's all you can tell me. And I can't be very specific what caused it to happen, why it's happening, none of that. That's all called the measurement problem of quantum mechanics. So many worlds just says, look, I just told you a minute ago that there's only one way And that means that you just describing the electron. You have to include everything In particular, you clearly have to in order to measure it. So whatever is interacting with the electron should be that you're describing. And look, maybe it's just you, maybe your eyeballs are But, okay, I'm gonna include And if you do that, since you have a very I'll be a little bit more What does it mean to measure We don't need to go into details, but we want the following If the electron were in a state that was a hundred percent then we want the measurement to tell us it was spinning clockwise. We want your brain to go, yes, the electron was spinning clockwise. Likewise, if it was a hundred we want to to see that, to measure that. The rules of quantum mechanics, the Schrodinger equation of quantum mechanics is a to measure it clockwise and measure it counterclockwise then when it starts out what will happen is that you and the electron will And by that, I mean that the state into part saying the electron and I saw it clockwise. And part of the state is with the part that says the electron was and I saw it counterclockwise. Everyone agrees with this. Entirely uncontroversial, straightforward consequence And then Niels Bohr would say, and then part of that and we're in the other part. And you can't predict which part it'll be, only the probability. Hugh Everett, who was a was thinking about this, says, &quot;I have a better idea. Part of the wave function It stays there.&quot; The reason why that idea, Everett's idea that always sticks around and just obeys the Schrodinger of years before, is because naively, you look at it and you go, okay, this is predicting that I will be in a super position, that I will be in a super position of having seen the electron be clockwise and having seen it be counterclockwise. No experimenter has in a super position. You always see an outcome. Okay. Everett's move, which was kind of genius, was to say the problem is The problem is you have in the Schrodinger equation. You have said, oh look, there's a person who saw counterclockwise, there's a person who saw clockwise. I should be that super position of both and Everett says, no, no, no, you're not. Because the part of the wave function in which the spin was clockwise, once that exists, it is completely unaffected by the part of the wave function that says the spin was counterclockwise. They are apart from each other. They're uninteracting. They have no influence. What happens in one part has So Everett says the simple resolution is to identify yourself as either the one who saw spin clockwise or the one who saw spin counterclockwise. There are now two people. Once you've done that experiment, the Schrodinger equation All you have to do is in the wave function. That's many worlds. - The number of worlds is- - [Sean] Very big. - [Lex] Very, very, very big. Where do those worlds fit? Where they go? - The short answer is, the worlds don't exist in space. Space exists separately in each world. So, I mean, there's a technical which is Hilbert space, the space of all possible But physically, we want to put these worlds somewhere. That's just a wrong There is no such thing as of the worlds 'cause space is inside the worlds. - One of the properties of this interpretation from one world to the other- - [Sean] That's right. - [Lex] Which kind of makes you feel that they're existing separately. - They are existing - [Lex] And simultaneously. - Without locations in space. - Without locations in space. How is it possible to visualize them existing - The real answer to that, the honest answer is - [Lex] Yeah, yeah. - If you can't visualize it, so much worse for you, the equations are crystal clear about what they're predicting. - Is there a way to get to and visualizing the weirdness - I don't think it's that hard. It wasn't that hard for me. I don't mind the idea that when I make a quantum there is later on in the universe, multiple descendants of my present self who got different answers I can't interact with them. Hilbert space, the space ball, quantum wave functions to include all of them. I'm gonna worry about the parts of the universe I can observe. So let's put it this way. Many worlds comes about by taking the Schrodinger The Schrodinger equation was to fit the spectrum of different atoms and different emission and And it's perfectly legitimate to say, well, okay, you're you're extrapolating believing it beyond what we can observe. I don't wanna do that, right? That's perfectly legit. Except, okay, then what do you believe? Come up with a better theory. You're saying you don't believe Tell me the equation that you believe in. And people have done that. Turns out it's super hard to do that in a legitimate - And many worlds is a really clean. - Absolutely, the most austere, clean, no extra baggage theory - If it in fact is correct, isn't this the weirdest - Yes. Let me put it this way. The single best reason in my mind to be skeptical about many worlds is not because it doesn't make sense or it doesn't fit the data, or I don't know where the It's because to make that extrapolation, to take seriously the equation that we know is correct in other regimes requires new philosophy, requires a new way of about probability, about prediction, a whole bunch of things. It's work to do that philosophy and I've been doing it and others have done it. And I think it's very, very doable. But it's not straightforward. It's not a simple extrapolation from what we already know. It's a grand extrapolation very far away. And if you just wanted to be sort of methodologically conservative and say that's a step too far, I don't wanna buy it, I'm sympathetic to that. I think that you're just wimping out. I think that you should have more courage. But I get the impulse. - And there is, under many worlds, an arrow of time where there's going to be one initial state. - That's right. All of quantum mechanics, all different versions require It might be different in every kind. But the quantum measurement You can measure something, it collapses. You can't go backwards. If someone tells you the outcome, if I say I've measured an electron, spin is clockwise and they say, what was it before I measured it? There was some part of but you don't know how much. And many worlds is no different. But the nice thing is, that the kind of arrow of time you need in many worlds is of time you need anyway for entropy and thermodynamics and so forth. You need a simple, low That's what you need in both cases. - So if you actually into the entire history of the universe, correct me if I'm wrong, but it looks very deterministic. - Yes. - In each moment, does the moment contain the memory of the entire history of the universe? To you, does the moment contain the memory of everything that preceded it? - As far as we know, so according to many worlds, the way function of the universe, all the branches of the universe at once, all the worlds does contain Calling it a memory is 'cause it's not the same and I have in our brains because our memories rely And the whole point of the Schrodinger equation they don't have an arrow of time built in. They're reversible. The state of the universe where it came from, but also determines where it's going to go in a way that our memories don't do that. - But our memories, we can do replay. Can you do this? - We can, but the act of forming a of the universe. It is an irreversible process also. You can walk on a beach and That's a record of your passing. It will eventually be erased by the ever increasing Well, but you can imperfectly replay it. I guess, can we return travel - Oh, it depends on the level of precision you're trying The universe contains the information about where the universe was, but you and I don't, we're nowhere close. - And it's what computationally to consult the universe. - Well, it depends on, again, exactly what you're asking. Like there are some simple questions. What was the temperature after the Big Bang? We can answer that. That's kind of amazing to pretty high precision. But if you wanna know then no. - What to you is the Big Bang? Why? why did it happen? - We have no idea. I think that's a super important question that I can imagine making progress on. But right now, I'm more or less maximally uncertain about what the answer is. - You think black holes will help? - No, potentially. Not that much. Quantum gravity will help and maybe black holes quantum gravity so indirectly, yes. But we have this situation Einstein's theory unambiguously predicts there was a singularity in the past. There was a moment of time when the universe had infinite infinite expansion rate, the whole bit. That's just a fancy way of and classical general of what's saying what really So it is completely possible. There was in some sense a moment of time before which there were no other moments. And that would be the Big Bang. Even if it's not a kind of thing, even if quantum mechanics is involved, maybe that's what happened. It's also completely possible. There was time before that space and time and they evolved into our hot that we don't really understand. - And if time and space are emergent, then the before even - Well, I think that if there that would be very good evidence or that would fit hand in glove with the idea that time is emergent. If time is fundamental, then it tends to go forever because it's fundamental. - Well, yeah, I mean, of this question is what's outside of it. Well, what's outside of our universe? So in time and in space. I know it's a pothead question, Sean. I understand. (Sean laughs) - I apologize. My life is asking pothead questions. - [Lex] Okay. - Some of them, the answer is that's not the - Okay. But is it possible to think at all about what's outside our universe? - It's absolutely legit to ask questions, but you have to be comfortable that the answer is there's no such thing as outside our universe. That's absolutely on the table. In fact, that is the simplest, most likely to be correct - But it's the only thing in the universe that wouldn't have an outside. - Yeah. If the universe is the it would not have an outside. - That's so weird to think We want there to be sort that led to this and an and then there's a bigger world and there's always a bigger world- - Because that is our experience, that's the world we grew up in, right? The universe doesn't - Such a weird thing. - When I was a kid, that used to keep me up at night, like, what if the - Right. And it feels like a lot of pressure that if this is the only one of the few intelligent civilizations, maybe the only one, it's the old theories that It just feels suspicious. That's why many worlds because it's humbling in It feels like infinity is the - There's one pitfall because there's a move that is made in these that I think is a little bit mistaken, which is to say, I'm going to think about of imagining that I am a typical observer. This is called the or the principle of mediocrity, or even the Copernican principle. Nothing special about me. I'm just typical in the universe. But then you draw some and what you end up realizing is you've been hilariously presumptuous because by saying I'm a typical you're saying typical observers in the universe are like me. And that is completely So I'm not telling you what but these kinds of questions that are not quite grounded or falsification are ones you - That to me is one of the There's different ways to approach it, but like what's outside of this? How did the big mess start? How do we get something from nothing? That's always the thing when you're studying You're always sneaking. That's where the black getting quantum gravity, all this kind of stuff. You're always sneaking where did all of this come from? And I think that's probably - No. - It doesn't have to be. So you think there could of this that refuses - Yes. Specifically, the question, why is there something - [Lex] Yeah. - Does not have the kind of answer that we would ordinarily Because the typical why in the universe. And when we answer them, we take advantage of the features of the universe that we know and love. But the universe itself, is not embedded in and therefore it can just be. - Do you think it's possible - [Sean] Sure. - It's a really interesting we're all existing in. - My own podcast listeners, Mindscape listeners tease me because they know from my MA episodes that if you ever start do you think it's possible that... The answer's gonna be yes. That might not be the but it's possible, sure, as long as you're not adding and getting an odd number. - When you say it's possible, there's a mathematically yes and then there's more of like intuitive. - Yeah. You wanna know whether it's plausible. You wanna know, is there reasonable non-zero I don't think that there's any philosophical to the simulation hypothesis. I also think that there's to take it seriously. - Do you think humans I guess that's how I I've spent quite a bit of and a lot more recently in virtual worlds and just am always of creating higher and And as we'll talk a little bit about artificial intelligence, sort of the advancement on the SOA front, that you can automatically and the possibility of existing in those automatically generated as long as there's a consistent and general relativity that governs the - [Sean] Yep. - So it just seems like try to create this. - Yeah, I think they will create better and better simulations. I think the philosopher what I consider to be that we should treat things and in simulated realities as just as real as the reality that we experience. I also think that as a practical matter, people will realize how much harder it is to simulate a realistic So this is not a my - Yeah. The practical matter of going that's impressive to a thing Similar question on this front is in AGI. You said that we're - I want to eliminate the phrase AGI. - So, basically, when you're and seeing how far are and we can talk about of intelligence that we're not as close as kind of some people in So what's your intuition behind that? - My intuition is basically that artificial intelligence is different than human intelligence. And so the mistake that is among those who do is an artificial agent that as we can make them now or in the near future might be at some things, way worse than human And rather than trying to being a human-like intelligent, we should appreciate it for and that will both be more accurate and help us put it to work and protect us from the dangers better rather than always anthropomorphizing it. - I think the underlying idea of AGI is that the capabilities That's not a precise statement, but meaning- No, I get that. I completely agree . - And then the underlying question where a lot of the debate is, is how impressive is it? What are the limits of Can they really do things How much do they really Or are they just fancy mimicry machines? Where do you fall on that as to the limits of large language models? - I don't think that there I'm a physicalist about consciousness and awareness and things like that. I see no obstacle in principle building that is indistinguishable in thought and cognition from a human being. But we're not trying to do that, right? What a large language model is trying to do is to predict text. That's what it does. And it is leveraging the for very good evolutionary attribute intentionality and intelligence and agency to things that As I was driving here to I was using Google Maps and Google Maps was talking to me, but I wanted to stop So I didn't do what I went around a block that it didn't like. And so it gets annoyed. It says like, no, why are you doing it? It doesn't say exactly in this, but you know what I mean. It's like no turn left, turn left, and you turn right. It is impossible as a human being not to feel a little bit sad that Google Maps is getting mad at you. It's not even trying to. It's not a large language model. No aspirations to intentionality, but we attribute that all the time. Dan Dennett, the philosopher, wrote a very influential paper, the fact that it's the most for we human beings to to artificial things which is not to say it But if you're trying to be rational and clear thinking about this, the first step is to towards attributing to systems that are able to, at the surface level, act human. - So if that huge bias of intentionality is there in and the vast landscape of human data that AI models, large language models, and video models in the don't you think that that as fundamental to the behavior - Well, I don't think it I think it could happen again. I'm not against the principle. But, again, the way that large and what they're optimized than the way that human beings came to be and what they're optimized for. So I think we're missing a chance to be much more clearheaded about what large language models are by judging them against human beings, again, both in positive - Well, I think it sort of to push back on what they're optimized how they're trained versus So they're trained is very trivial way of predicting text tokens, but you can describe what and what the actual task in hand is, is to construct a world model, meaning an understanding of the world. And that's where it starts getting closer to what humans are kind of doing, or just in the case of know how the sausage is made and we don't know how - But they're not optimized for that. They're optimized to sound human. - That's the fine-tuning. But the actual training is creating a compressed representation of all the stuff that humans And the hope is that that gives you a deep - Yeah. So that's why I think that there's a set of interesting questions to be asked about the ways in which large language models actually do represent the world because what is clear is that they're very good at acting human. The open question in my mind is, is the easiest, most efficient, best way to act human that human beings do? Or are there other ways? And I think that's an open question. I just heard a talk by Melanie Mitchell at Santa Fe Institute, an artificial intelligence researcher. And she told two stories One that someone else wrote and one that her group is following up on. And they were modeling Othello. Othello the game with a white and black squares. So the experiment was the following. They fed a neural network, the moves that were being made Like E5 just means that, okay, you put a token down E5, so it gives a long string. It does this for millions of games, real legitimate games. And then it asks the question, the paper asks the question, okay, you you've trained it to tell what would be from not a legitimate next move. Did it in its brain and it's a little large I don't even know if it's technically a but a deep learning network. Did it come up with a Well, how do you know? And so they construct that they insert and ask it what is it doing The little probe network can ask, would this be legitimate or is this token white Things that in practice would amount to... It's invented the Othello board. And it found that the not a hundred percent of the time, but more than by chance, substantially more than by chance. So they said there's that this neural network has just out of data, raw data. But then Melanie's group okay, are you sure that that understanding of the Othello board wasn't And what they found was like at least half of the improvement was Not all of it. And look, a Othello board is I just think it's an open question, whether or not the... I mean, it would be remarkable either way to learn that large language models that are good at doing what because they've built the same that we have in our minds, or that they're good despite Either one of these is an amazing thing. I just don't think the data - I think I have some sort of intellectual humility because I was humbled by several stages in the machine learning And I was just would never have predicted that LLMs the way they're trained on the scale of data they're as they are. And there, that's where where my intuition would say where you need to be of concrete common sense reasoning, symbolic reasoning type things in a system in order for it to be very intelligent. But here, I'm so impressed train on the next token My conception of the nature of intelligence is just completely, not completely but humbled, I should say. - Look, and I think that's perfectly fair. I also was, I will say pleasantly, but I don't know whether it's but factually surprised by Clearly, some kind of phase transition and the improvement has been remarkable. Absolutely amazing, that I have no arguments with. That doesn't yet tell me the mechanism by which that improvement happened. Constructing a model, much like a human being one possible mechanism, but part of the intellectual humility is to say maybe there are others. - I was chatting with the CEO so behind (indistinct) and that company. But a lot of the AI on expanding the scale of compute, sort of if we assume that but is compute-limited, you can make the system by using more compute. So let me ask you on almost Do you think physics can help and maybe the scale of energy required to make that compute happen? - Yeah, a hundred percent. I think this is like one of the biggest things that And it's an obvious kind of where the heat generation, the waste of existing nowhere near the efficiency of our brains. It's hilariously worse. And we kind of haven't tried to optimize that hard on that frontier. I mean, your laptop heats up when you're sitting on your lap, right? It doesn't need to. Your brain doesn't heat up like that. So, clearly, there exists the capability of doing these computations with much less waste heat being generated. And I look forward to people doing that. Yeah. - Are you excited for the - I am cautiously optimistic. Excited it'll be too strong. I mean, it'd be great. But if we really tried solar power, it would also be great. (Lex laughs) - I think Ilya Sutskever said this, that the future of humanity on earth will be just, the entire surface of earth is covered in solar - Why would you waste the surface of the earth with solar panels? Put them in space. - Sure, you can go in space. Yeah. - Space is bigger than the earth. - Yeah. Just solar panels everywhere. - [Sean] Yeah. I like it. - We already have fusion. It's called the sun. - [Lex] Yeah, that's true. And there's probably more of catching that energy. - Sending it down is the But that's an engineering problem. Yeah. - So I just wonder where the data centers, the compute centers can expand to. If that's the future, if AI is as effective then it's the scale of but perhaps it's a race - There are constraints. - [Lex] Yeah. - There's a certain amount of energy, a certain amount of damage before it does not worth it anymore. So, yeah, I think that's a new question. In fact, it's kind of frustrating because we get better and better at doing things efficiently, but we invent more than we get good at So we're continuing to make - I mean, that's the dance of humanity. We're constantly creating better, better, better technologies that a lot more harm. And that includes for weapons. It includes AI used as weapons. That includes nuclear weapons, of course. Which is surprising to me that we haven't destroyed given how many nuclear - Look, I'm with you. Between nuclear and bio weapons, it is a little bit surprising that we haven't caused Of course, we did drop but compared to what could have happened or could happen tomorrow, it could be much worse. - Yeah. It does seem like there's a underlying, speaking of quantum fields, there's like a field of goodness within the human heart that like in some kind we create really powerful things that could destroy each other. And there's greed and ego and all this kind power hungry dictators that are at play here in all but we somehow always, - Yeah. But that's exactly what before we went too far. - Right before we went too far. And that's why we don't see aliens. So you're, like I mentioned, associated with Santa Fe Institute. I just would love to take of ideas explored there. So they look at complexity What do you think about the emergence of complexity from simple - I think it's a fascinating topic. I mean, that's why I'm thinking about these things these that I was describing to you before. All of those papers I described What if the laws of physics are different in the following way and then you can work At some point in my life, I said like, what is the Einstein guessed right. Steven Weinberg guessed right. But there's a very small number of times that people guess right. Whereas with this emergence I really do think that we haven't understood the basics yet. I think we're still kind of paradigmatic. There've been some People like Geoffrey West at Santa Fe and others have really into important systems. But still there's a lot are not understood. And so searching for the general principles And I think it's I mean, to be a little bit I think this is kind of a cliche. I think the key is information. And I think that what we of the universe as you go from simple to more and more complex of the universe figuring to do whatever to survive or I mean, that's the sort the resource that we have for a while anyway until the heat death. But that's where the - But the mechanism of it. I mean, you mentioned Geoffrey West. What are interesting inklings And what are systems that interest you in terms of information? So, I mean, for me, just as a fan of complexity, just even looking at simple just fascinating way to of complexity. - So for those of the listeners cellular automata come from imagining a very for example, a set of ones And then you met a rule that says, okay, I'm gonna evolve this in time. And generally, the simplest ones start with just each block of three that they will determine And you can actually classify all the different possibilities, a small number of possible And what was discovered by various people, including Stephen Wolfram, is some of these cellular that you start from almost nothing, like 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, and it becomes wildly complex. Okay? So this is very provocative, It's also not how physics works at all because, as we said, physics conserves information. You can go forward or backwards. The cellular automata do not. They're not reversible in any sense. You've built in an arrow of time. You have a starting point So what I'm interested in is seeing how in the real world with and underlying reversibility, but macroscopic in the arrow time, et cetera, how does that lead to complexity? I think that that's an I don't think that cellular in that one. - What is the landscape of entropy in the universe look like? - Well, entropy is hard to localize. It's a property of systems, not of parts of systems. Having said that, we can do approximate The answer is black holes Let's put it this way. The whole observable universe that we are in had a before stars and planets and 10 to the 88th, I can even tell you the number. Okay? The single black hole, the center of our galaxy has entropy. 10 to the 90. Single black hole center of our galaxy is more entropy than the whole universe used So most of the entropy in the form of black holes. - Okay. That's fascinating, first of all. But second of all, if we take black holes away, what are the different in entropy across space? Where do we earth links fit into that? - The interesting thing with a system that is isolated from the rest of the universe and you start it at low entropy, there's almost a theorem that says if you're very, then the system looks pretty simple 'cause there's low entropy means there's only a small number of ways that you can rearrange So there's if there's not that many ways, the answer's gonna look simple. But there's also almost a theorem that says when you're at maximum entropy, the system is gonna look simple because it's all smeared out. If it had like interesting structure, then it would be complicated. So entropy in this isolated That's the second law of thermodynamics. But complexity starts low, goes up, and then goes down again. Sometimes people mistakenly or whatever is fighting of thermodynamics, fighting against the increase of entropy. That is precisely the wrong We are surfers riding the We rely on increasing entropy to survive. That is part of what makes us special. This table maintains its which, I mean, there's molecules, there have forces on each other, and it holds up. You and I aren't like that. We maintain our stability dynamically by ingesting food, fuel, food, and water, and air and so forth, burning it, increasing its entropy. We are non-equilibrium We are using the fuel the of low entropy energy to - I just wonder what that First of all, I mean, one question to ask, do you think it's possible of complexity where you or clearly defined ways - I think it is and I think we don't. It's possible to have it. I don't think we yet have it in part because complexity There's different ideas that go under the rubric of complexity. One version is just Kolmogorov complexity. If you have a configuration or a string of numbers or whatever, can you compress it so that you have a small That's Kolmogorov complexity. But that's the complexity Okay? It's not like the complexity of a problem. Computational complexity, the traveling salesman problem or factoring large numbers. That's a whole different kind of question that is also about complexity. So we don't have a sort - So you think it's possible of a physical system- - Yeah, absolutely. we do entropy. - Yeah. - You think that's a Sean - We are working on various things. The glib thing that I'm with a student is complex agenesis. How does complexity come to be if all the universes doing is moving from low entropy to high entropy? - It's sexy name. - It's a good name. Yeah, I like the name. I just gotta write the paper. - Sometimes a name In which context the birth of complexity are you most interested in? - Well, I think it comes in stages. So I think that if you go from the... I'm, again, a physicist. So biologists studying evolution will talk about how complexity evolves all the time, the complexity of the genome, the complexity of our physiology. But they take for granted and entropy is increasing and so forth. I wanna go back to the beginning and say the early universe and entropy increases with time. And the universe sort of differentiates and becomes more complex. But that statement, which is indisputably true, has different meanings. 'cause complexity has different meanings. So sort of the most basic primal version of complexity is what you might think of as configurational complexity. That's what Kolmogorov gets at. How much information do you need to specify the Then there's a whole another of the universe start burning fuel. So in many ways, a planet and a star are not that different in They're both spheres with density, high at the middle and But there's something because the star only survives as long as it has fuel. I mean, then it turns into a brown dwarf for a white dwarf for whatever. But as a star, as a main sequence star, it is an out of equilibrium system, but it's more or less static. Like if I spill the coffee mug and it falls in the process of falling, it's out of equilibrium, but it's also changing all the time. A specific kind of system of macroscopically but underneath the hood, it's burning fuel to beat the band in order to maintain that stability. So as stars form that, that's a different kind of Then there's another kind of roughly speaking at the origin of life because that's where you have information really being gathered and utilized by subsystems of the universe. And then, arguably, there's any number of stages past that. I mean, one of the most obvious ones to me is we talk about simulation theory, but you and I run They're just not that good. But we imagine different Bacteria don't do that. So that's the kind of that is a form of complexity. And so I would like to and how they fit together. - Yeah, imagination. - Yep. Mental time travel. - Yeah. The things going on in my head when I'm imagining worlds representations of those worlds. But to get to the essence of them, and maybe it's possible with non-human computing type devices to do those kinds of simulations in more and more compressed ways. - There's an argument to be made that literally what separates human beings from other species on earth is our ability to imagine counterfactual, hypothetical features. - Yeah. I mean, that's one of the big features. I don't know if- - Everyone has their own That's why I said there's I did a podcast episode It developed slowly. I did different podcast. Sorry to keep mentioning But Malcolm Mciver, who is an engineer at Northwestern, has a theory about one of the major stages in evolution is when fish I mean, of course, that is a major stage in evolution, but in particular, there's a cognitive shift. Because when you're a fish the attenuation length of light You can't see kilometers away. You can see meters away, and you're moving at meters per second. So all of the evolutionary of your decisions on a When you see something new, you have to make a rapid fire As soon as you climb onto land, you can essentially see forever. You can see stars in the sky. So now a whole new mode where you see something far away. And rather than saying, lookup table, I see this, I react. You can say, okay, I see that thing. What if I did this? What if I did that? What if I did something different? And that's the birth of - You've been critical on panpsychism. - [Sean] Yes, you've noticed that, right. - Can you make the case for So panpsychism is the idea that consciousness permeates all matter. Maybe it's the fundamental force or a physics of the way of - And psychism taught everywhere, consciousness everywhere, right? - to a point of entertainment, the idea frustrates you, which sort of as a fan And you've had great That's right on your - I had David Chalmers, who's one of the world's And he is panpsychism curious. He doesn't commit to anything, but he's certainly Philip Goff, who I've had, who's a great guy, but he's devoted to panpsych. In fact, he's almost for the upsurge of interest in panpsychism in the popular imagination. And the argument for it is supposed to be that there is something about conscious awareness of atoms and molecules. So the panpsychism will say, look, you can tell me maybe of neuroscience and what have you, exactly what happens in your brain and how that translates into thought, and speech, and action. What you can't tell me is You can't tell me what I am experiencing when I see something that is red or that taste something that is sweet. You can tell me what neurons fire, but you can't tell me That first person, inner subjective experience by physics. And therefore, this is an but then therefore is supposed that is not contained within physics to account for that. And I'm just gonna call it mind. We don't know what it is yet. We're gonna call it mind. And it has to be separate from physics. And then there's two ways to go. If you buy that much, you can either say, okay, I'm gonna believe that and they're separate from each other and they're interacting somehow. Or that's a little bit complicated and sketchy as far as physics is gonna go. So I'm gonna believe in mind, but I'm gonna put it prior to matter. I'm gonna believe that mind comes first and that consciousness is the and everything else, including matter and That would be at least as Now, the physicalist, I don't have any problem or what you experience when you see red. It's a certain way of and the neurons, et cetera, that make up you. Just like the hardness or these are words that we attach to certain underlying configurations of ordinary physical matter. Likewise, sadness and redness or whatever are words to describe what you're doing. And when it comes to I'm very quick to say, I do not claim to have any special insight on how consciousness works to change the laws of - If you don't have to where do you think it emerges from? Is consciousness an illusion that's almost like a to describe a certain kind of feeling we have when Or is there some big leap that happens at some stage? - I almost never use the word illusion. Illusion means that there's something that you think you're perceiving Like an oasis in the It has no causal efficacy. If you walk up to where the you'll say you were wrong That's different than or non-fundamental, but also real. This table is real, even though I know it's made of atoms. That doesn't remove the I think the consciousness and free will and things like that are just - Oasis in the desert and that you're thirsty- - [Lex] Well, you mean- - At least you draw incorrect conclusions about the world. - Sure. But imagining a thing to reality as we've seen. And that has a kind of a causal efficacy. - Sure. But your understanding that gives you power over it and influence over it is by believing in that about consciousness or this table. - You don't think it of a thing existing by - Unless you build it or make it. - No, that's what I mean. Like imagining humans can fly if you have the right brothers. - That's better to imagine - [Lex] Right. - In terms of counterfactuals absolutely. Imagination is crucially important, but that's not an illusion. That's just a- - Oh, okay. - So the possibility of the I mean, the future is a concept so you can... Time. Time is just a concept so you can play with that. But yes, reality. So to you, so, for example, I'll ask is this, so Donald Hoffman thinks that the entirety of the conversation we've been having about spacetime is an illusion. Is it possible for you to Can you make the case as I think he writes as we know them was based on, is a kind of interface that we don't at all understand and that we're fooling ourselves - Well, I think there's that is perfectly respectable and part of it that is And I'm not even gonna try to steel man, the nonsensical part. The real part to me is what So we don't know what the world is at a deep fundamental level. Let's put ourselves in the minds of people living 200 years ago. They didn't know about quantum mechanics. They didn't know about relativity. That doesn't mean they were that they understood. They had Newton's laws, right? They could predict what time the sun was In the progress of science, the words that would be used to give the most fundamental description of how you were predicting because now you have curved spacetime and things like that, right? And you didn't have any of but the prediction is the same. Why? Because that prediction, independent of what we thought the prediction pointed to something true about our understanding of reality. To call it an illusion We might not know what the best, most comprehensive way of stating it is, but it's still true. - Is it true in the way, for Because for most of human history, people have believed in and that seemed very true to them as an explanation for Some of the deeper with the human condition and why certain things happen, that was a good explainer. So to you, that's not an illusion. - No, I think that was I think it was a very, very There are illusions. There are substantive that go beyond predictions which later are found to be wrong. And the existence of God was one of them. If those people at that time had abandoned and replaced it with a they would've done just as Again, because there are so many things they didn't understand, it was very reasonable for It wasn't that they were But that is, as we understand the some things stick with us, some things get replaced. - So like you said, you're a believer of the You're a naturalist and as you've described, a poetic naturalist. - [Sean] That's right. - What's the word poetic? What is naturalism and - Naturalism is just the idea that all that exists is the natural world. There's no supernatural world. You can have arguments but I would claim that about what the word supernatural means, not the word natural. The natural world is about by doing science. The poetic part means I wanna say, fundamentalist about what the natural world is. As we went from Newtonian spacetime to Einsteinian spacetime, something is maintained there. There is a different story that And that story in the Newtonian regime, if you wanna fly a rocket to the moon, you don't use general relativity, you use Newtonian mechanics. That story works perfectly well. The poetic aspect of the story of talking about the natural world. And as long as those ways and causally efficacious about the functioning of the world, then we attribute some - So the poetic really looks at the, let's say, the of science is more open to them. It's doing double duty a little bit, so that's why it's confusing. The more obvious that tables are real. Even though you know that it's really a quantum tables are still real. They're a different way of talking about the underlying deeper reality of it. The other duty is doing is that we move beyond purely descriptive vocabularies for discussing the universe and judgmental ways of This painting is beautiful. That one is ugly. This action is morally right, that one is morally wrong. These are also ways of about the universe. They are not fixed by the phenomena. They're not determined They cannot be ruled out But they're still valid. They might not be universal, they might be subjective, but they're not arbitrary. And they do have a role in - So you don't think it's that explore the realms of So those are subjective. - Yeah. They're human. They're personal. - But do you think that's just because we don't have the tools of science have not expanded enough to incorporate the human experience? - No, I don't think that's what it is. I think that what we mean by aesthetics or morality are we're properties to things that And there is always gonna to our attachment and how we do that. And that's okay. And the faster we recognize the better off we'll be. - But if we deeply and fully of the human mind, won't be able to incorporate that? - No, that will absolutely be helpful in explaining why certain people It won't justify those - Do you think it's possible to have a kind of general relativity, but that includes the observer effect where the human mind is the observer? - [Sean] Sure. - So sort of like how we morph in the same way gravity morphs spacetime. How does the human mind morph reality and have a very thorough theory of how that morphing actually happens? - That's a very pothead question, Lex. - I'm sorry. (Sean laughs) Well, you think it's possible. (Lex laughs) - The answer is yes. I think that there's no... I think that we are part and the natural world. Physicalism would've to use as naturalism, maybe even a more accurate word. But it's a little bit more off-putting. So I do wanna snap your than physicalism. - Are there limits to science? - Sure. We just talked about one, right? Science can tell you right from wrong. You need science to implement your ideas If you are functioning on the basis of an incorrect you might very well but actually be doing wrong. But all the science in which action is right and - Dictators and people in as an authority to convince Studying Nazi science is fascinating. - Yeah. But there's an instrumentalist view here. You have to first decide and then science can help If your goals are horrible, science has no problem Science is happy to help out. - Let me ask you about the method behind the madness on So you mentioned that your and writing popular books. How do you find the time of the day? What's the day in the (indistinct) - So you don't have a you try to fight for two hours somewhere? - I'm really terrible at that. My strategy for finding time is just to ignore interruptions and emails. But it's a different time every day. Some days it never happens. Some weeks it never happens. - You're able to pull it off 'cause you're extremely prolific. So like you're able to have days where you don't write- - Oh my God. - And still write the next day. - Right. - Oh wow. That's a rare thing. A lot of prolific writers will- - [Sean] Yes, it's true. - Carve out two hours because otherwise it just disappears. - Right. No, I get that. Yeah, I do. And yeah, it's just like I... Everyone is has their foibles or whatever, so I'm not able to do that, therefore I have to just - And what's the actual process look like when you're writing popular stuff? You get behind a computer? - Yeah, get behind a computer. And my way of doing it... So my wife Jennifer is a science writer. But it's interesting 'cause our techniques She will think about something, but then she'll free write. She'll just sit at a computer and write, like, yeah, I think this, I think this, something. And then that will be and rewritten or whatever until the final thing happens. I will just like sit for a very long time. And then I'll write what So a lot of it happens. There might be some or something like that, but a lot of it is in my - So that's the case for &quot;The Biggest Ideas in the Universe,&quot; the &quot;Quantum&quot; book and the - Yeah, &quot;Quanta and Fields,&quot; which is actually mostly and particle physics. That's coming out in May. I'm letting people in on things that no other book lets them in on. So I hope it's worth it. It's a challenge 'cause there's a lot of equations. - I mean, you did the same thing with &quot;Space, Time, and Motion.&quot; You did something quite interesting, which is like you made the of a book. - Right. There's a lot of equations. Book two goes further in those directions than book one did. So it's more cool stuff. It's also more mind-bending. It's more of a challenge. Book three that I'm &quot;Complexity and Emergence.&quot; - [Lex] Oh wow. - And that'll be the - Oh, that's fascinating. So there's a lot of probably I mean, that's a real cutting edge. - Well, but you know, I'm not In other words, I'm not trying to Obviously, in other books, I've been very free about speculating. The point of these books is to say things that 500 years from And so there are some things we know about complexity immersions, and I wanna focus on those. And I will mention, I'm happy to say this to be speculated about, but I won't pretend to be telling you what one is the right one. - You somehow found the of mathematics and still accessible, which is interesting. - I try. I mean, look, these three books, the biggest ideas books are They're gonna appeal to a smaller audience But that audience should love them. Like my 16-year-old self to get these books. I can't tell you. - Yeah. In terms of looking back in history, those are books, the trilogy would be - Work for &quot;Lord of the Rings.&quot; So I figured why not me? - You and Token are just different styles, different topics. - Same ultimate reality. - Like we mentioned, Mindscape Podcast, I love it. You interview a huge variety of experts from all kinds of fields. So just several questions I want to ask. How do you prepare? How do you prepare to How do you prepare in makes your own curious mind happy, all that kind of stuff? - Yeah, no, these are great questions. And I've sort of struggled and changed my techniques over the years. It's over 5-year-old podcast, might be approaching six years old now. I started out overpreparing Like I had a journey Many of the people I or thinkers who write books, so they have a story to tell. I could just say, okay, and then an hour later, stop. So the mistake is to sort of anticipate what the lecture would be and to ask the leading questions that would pull it out of them. What I do now is much more, here are the points, here are like the big questions and so I have a much and then try to make it I'm helped by the fact So I strictly limit myself to one day of my life per podcast episode on average. Some days take more. And that includes not but inviting the guest, recording it, editing it, publishing it. So I need to be very, Yeah. - You enforce constraints for yourself in which creativity can emerge. - That's right. That's right. - And you know, look, sometimes if I'm interviewing I can just go in and where interviewing an I have to do a lot of work. - Do you ever find yourself that serve no purpose except and then potentially expanding that can help your actual work and research and writing? - Yes, on both counts. Some people have so many that you don't know Others have a message. One of the thing I of these years is the There are brilliant people. And I try very hard on the podcast to sort of get all sorts of people, different ages and things like that. And bless their hearts, the most brilliant young people are not as practiced at wandering They are less mastery much less how to talk about it. Whereas certain older people just like have their patent answers and that's kind of boring. So you want somewhere in between, the ideal person who has that they can wander outside their specific but they're not overly practiced so they're just giving - I feel like there's like of entropy and complexity, - Edge of chaos. Yeah. - You also do incredible AMAs and people should sign up to your Patreon 'cause you can get to ask Well, for several hours, you just answer in fascinating ways some really interesting questions. Is there something you of finding the answers to those? - That's a great one. Again, it's evolved over time. So the Ask Me Anything when I started doing them, they were only for Patreon and to ask the questions. But then I actually asked would you like me to And they overwhelmingly voted yes, so I do that. So the Patreon supporters everyone can listen. And also at some point, I really used to try to but now there's just too many. So I have to pick and that's fraught with peril. And my personal standard for picking questions to answer is, what are the ones I think I have interesting answers to give for? So that both means if it's kind of the same old question that I've gotten a hundred times before, I'm not gonna answer it because you can just Google that. It's easier. There are some very clear attempts to ask an interesting question that honestly just I Like, I read this science fiction novel, what do you think about it? I'm like, &quot;Well, I haven't read it so I can't help you there.&quot; What's your favorite color? I could tell you what it is, but it is not that interesting. I try to make it a mix. It's not all physics questions, not all philosophy questions. I will talk about food, or religion if that's what people want. I keep suggesting that people ask me for relationship advice, but they never do. Yeah. I don't think I've heard, I don't think I've heard one. - I'm willing to do it, but I'm a little reluctant 'cause I don't actually But I'm happy to talk about those topics. I want to give several hours of talking, and I wanna try to say things and keep it interesting, keep it rolling. If you don't like this question, wait for the next one. - What are some of the harder Do you remember? What kinds of questions - Rarely, but occasionally, people will ask me a super Like I hadn't thought of it, things in exactly that way. I try to recognize that a lot of times, it is the opposite where it's like, okay, you're clearly confused and I'm gonna try to explain the question - Well, I love those. Yeah, why that's the wrong - Right. - Right. - [Lex] That's great. - But the hard questions, I don't know, I don't actually answer The most personal I will what do you think of Baltimore? That much I can talk about are, how are your cats doing? Happy to talk about the but very personal - But you even touched like - Yeah, no, very happy I try to be clear on what what is just me babbling, what is my level of where you're allowed to disagree, whether if you would disagree, you're just wrong. And people can disagree with that also. I'm happy to go out on I'm happy to say, look, I don't know, but here's my guess. I just did a whole solo podcast, which was exactly that. And it's interesting, like some people are like, And there's a whole &quot;Why are you talking about this thing that you are not the world's expert in?&quot; - Well, I love the actual and having a strong opinion on stuff, which is a great. It's a fascinating dance to pull off. And I guess the way to do that is to just expand into all kinds and then change your mind - Yeah, it's interesting because when people react against you by saying you are being 99.999% of the time, all they mean is I disagree. That's all they really mean, right? - [Lex] Yeah. - Like at a very basic level, people will accuse And I'm like, &quot;You think And you're telling me that I'm arrogant?&quot; I think that all all of When you disagree with somebody, try to specify the Try not to psychologize them. You know, trying to say, oh, you're saying this because of this. Maybe it's true, maybe you're right. But if you had an actual response to what they were saying, that would be much more interesting. - Yeah. I wonder why it's difficult I respect you, I like you, but I disagree on this and here's why I disagree. I wonder they go to this place of, like, well, you're an idiot, or you're egoistical, or you're confused, or you're naive, all the kinds of words as opposed to, like, I respect you as a fellow human being, exploring the world of and I disagree. - I will complicate the question even more because there's some people And I once wrote a blog post, I think it was called And I had a two by two grid and it's, are you someone I Are you someone who I respect or don't? And all four quadrants are very populated. So what that means is there and I disagree with, and there are people who agree with me. And I have no respect for at all the embarrassing allies quadrant. That was everyone's favorite. And I just think that's Like trying to be honest But if you actually want to forget about whether you Explain the disagreement, explain the agreement. But you're absolutely right. I completely agree. Like as a society, we are not very good at disagreeing. We instantly go to the insults. - Yeah. And I mean, even on a deeper level, I think at some deep level, I respect and love the - Yep. - You said that general relativity is the - So far. - [Lex] What do you - Let's put it this way. When I teach courses, there's no more satisfying subject to teach than general relativity. And the reason why is because it starts from very clear, precisely articulated assumptions, and it goes so far. When I give my talk, you can find it online. I'm probably not gonna give it again. The book one of The Biggest Ideas talk was building up from you don't know any math or physics; an hour later, Einstein's equation And the punchline is the than Albert Einstein because Albert Einstein did He didn't know about gravitational waves; he didn't know about black holes; but his equation did. I mean, that's a miraculous aspect of science more generally, but general relativity is in the most absolutely obvious way. - A human question, what do you think of the fact that Einstein didn't get the Nobel Prize for general relativity - Tragedy. He should have gotten maybe That certainly should have got... The photoelectric effect worth the Nobel Prize because... And people don't quite get this. Who cares about the photoelectric effect? That's like this very minor effect. The point is his explanation for the photoelectric called the photon. That's worth the Nobel Prize. Max Planck gets credit for this in 1900, explaining black body radiation by saying that when a and object at some temperature in discrete chunks He didn't quite say that's because radiation It's like having a coffee maker that makes one cup of coffee at a time. It doesn't mean that liquid Just that you are dispensing it like that. It was Einstein in 1905 and that was a radical thing. So that, clearly, that was not a mistake. But also special the Nobel Prize. And general relativity clearly Not only were they brilliant, but they were experimentally verified like everything you want. - So separately, you think. - Yeah, yeah, absolutely. - Oh humans, yeah. Whatever the explanation there. - Edwin Hubble never won the Nobel Prize for finding this universe was expanding. - Yeah. And even the fact that we give prizes is and we limit the number of people that get the prize and all that. - I think that Nobel Prize I think it's probably a because it brings I think it's probably negative for science because it makes people - Yeah. There's a lot of fascinating human stories underneath it all. Science is its own thing, but it's also a collection of humans and it's a beautiful collection. There's tension. There's competition. There's jealousy. But there's also great collaborations and all that kind of stuff. Danielle Kahneman, who recently passed is, is one of the great stories So all of it, all of it, that's what humans do. And, Sean, thank you for being the person that makes us celebrate science and fall in love with all of these for writing amazing books, for being legit and still science side of it, and for allowing me and and also for educating everybody Everybody should stop and listen to every single So thank you. I've been a huge fan forever. I'm really honored that you would speak with me in the early days when I was still starting this podcast and means of the world. - I appreciate it. Thanks very much for having me on. Now that you're a big deal, still having me on. - Thank you, Sean. Thanks for listening to this To support this podcast, please check out our And now let me leave you with some words from Richard Feynman. Study hard what interests you the most in the most undisciplined, irreverent and original manner possible. Thank you for listening and hope to see you next time.