Donald Trump has his new pick for attorney general after Matt Gaetz dropped out. And while this is sad news for gates and his fans, it is potentially very exciting news for Judge Jeanine Pirro, who will be our next attorney general for Rudy Giuliani. He's he has to be on the twin bed in the office. His son converted into a guest room right now going, what about me? Trump is now choosing his longtime ally and the former Florida attorney general, Pam Bondi. Trump allies telling CNN they are breathing a sigh of relief, believing that Bondi will face a much easier confirmation process than Matt Gaetz. Bondi, who became Florida's top prosecutor at the height of the Tea Party movement, has a reputation as an effective litigator. She served as a member of Trump's impeachment defense team, and she joined him on the campaign trail. Bondi has also spent a lot of time on the president elect's favorite news channel. This is just one big press conference trying to smear Donald Trump, trying to hurt Donald Trump. It's really unbelievable what they're doing right? They are obstructing the candidate, President Donald Trump, the Department of Justice. The prosecutors will be prosecuted. The bad ones. The investigators will be investi gated because of the deep state last term for President Trump. They were hiding in the shadows, but now they have a spotlight on them and they can all be investigated. All right. Joining us now, criminal defense attorney and former prosecutor Mark O'Mara. He knows Pam Bondi from her time as attorney general. Mark, I'm so grateful to have you on the show. This morning. Thank you so much. What can you tell us? I actually I first got to cover Pam Bondi back in 2012, when she was a surrogate for Mitt Romney when he was running for the Republican nomination. What can you tell us about her, about her evolution, and most importantly, what it would mean for her to be at the top of the Department of Justice, considering what President Trump, former President Trump, has said he wants to do with the Department? Well, first, yeah, first, we have had several cases to cancer with Miss Bondi way back in the day when she was a line prosecutor. First and foremost, she's a prosecutor. She's a good trial attorney, formidable in a courtroom, quite honestly. now, as attorney general, she's not going to show up in a criminal courtroom very often. But she does have that ability, that style and that presence is, I think, is going to serve her very well as the attorney general. So, Mark, what how would you say her experience stacks up for the job that she has been nominated for? Because there have been sort of two parallel tracks here as we've been trying to cover Trump's nominees for these positions. Some of them have very problematic personal issues. Matt Gates, is a good example. The one who, you know, who obviously just was pulled to make way for Bondi, but the other is questions about, okay, what experience do you bring to the job. Doesn't line up with the types of experience that others have brought to the job in the past. How does Bondi experience stack up, for in terms of others who have also been attorneys general, the United States? Well, if I compare it to the most recent, nominee, Matt Gates, they're worlds apart. Matt Gaetz, I don't think, had any experience in a courtroom. no real trial experience. And also trial experience in and of itself isn't necessary for the job. The idea of being comfortable in a courtroom and presenting yourself, it has become pretty apparent not only when she was a prosecutor over in Hillsborough County, but since then she has a great presence in. After all, the attorney general job is sort of just that. So I think she compared it to gates also compared to some of the other nominees for the other positions. She has the, the pedigree she truly does because she's, again, good in the courtroom presents very well. I think she's going to be an easy nominee, approval by the Congress, because she doesn't have some of the downside. It seems that people like Mike. Mike, that's where they're brought into it. So I think it's going to be pretty smooth. And if you compare her to all of the other candidates, I think she's going to be an easy choice to be approved. Mark, one of the other things that Bondi did in her court in the course of her, time working on behalf of Donald Trump, was lawsuits related to the 2020 elections. and what she has said about who won that election, namely, that, you know, Joe Biden didn't win the election that Donald Trump did. Let's play a little bit of the a few of the things that she said in the course of that. and I'll ask you about it on this side. Watch. We are still on the ground in Pennsylvania. I'm here right now, and we are not going anywhere until they declare that we won Pennsylvania. We know that ballots have been dumped. There were ballots that were found early on. We've heard that people were receiving ballots that that were dead. You know, the thing that's happening all over they legal ballot is about the integrity of this election. And every vote, as Mayor Giuliani said, in every state must be counted fairly. We need to fix this. We need to remedy this now because we've won Pennsylvania, and we want every vote to be counted in a fair way. So of course, we know that Donald Trump did not win Pennsylvania in 2020. What does her role here have? What what kind of implications does it have going forward if she's confirmed as attorney general? Well, again, I've had problems and troubles with the election deniers just because of my view of it from a not a political point, from a legal standpoint. Everything we've looked at, everything was voted out, seemed as though the election was properly done. And yes, it is somewhat problematic, generally speaking, that any candidate, attorney general or any other cabinet member who still maintains this concern. But let's face it, she is sort of also preaching to the choir of who is now going to be our next president. That was always the position of Donald Trump. It's never going to change from that. I, I find it concerning because the attorney general is the lead of the not only the Department of Justice, but when you hear about the justice system in America, you think about the attorney general has to be trusted. He has to be believed, has to be respected so that we know that we can place our trust. Every one of us can place our trust in her and therefore place our trust in the criminal justice system. So a little bit troubling. hopeful that she's going to move forward as an attorney general, not just as a continued election denier, because it is problematic for the trust in the system. Yeah, trust. Trust in the system, of course, being the key one of one of these foundational things we've all just been grappling with, as a country for the last, I guess going on a decade now since Donald Trump emerged on the stage. Mark O'Mara, thank you very much for your time this morning. I really appreciate it. All right. Our panel's here. Molly Ball, senior political correspondent for the Wall Street Journal. Dana Milbank, political columnist for The Washington Post Kate Bedingfield, CNN political commentator, former Biden White House communications director. And Brett Todd, CNN political commentator, Republican strategist. Welcome to all of you. Thank you so much for being here, Brad. You know, I think you said it here first a couple days ago that there was no way Matt Gaetz was going to go through, and clearly there were probably way more than just four people who were going to oppose this nomination, eight 1214. I mean, I think he had a real problem, and it was obvious to everyone. And I think they knew that when they nominated Matt Gaetz. Matt Gaetz now hopes to get out of the ethics report coming out in the House. He gets to go home having proven he's close to Donald Trump, maybe out of run for governor of Florida. So in the end, everyone may get a consolation prize. You know, maybe like the price is right. You take something home. Pam Bondi, Molly Ball has been on the political scene. I first covered her when she flew around with Mitt Romney campaigning in Florida. I think those of us who, you know, we were texting each other about about this development last night because not necessarily something that had been expected, but, I mean, to Brad's point, she compared to Matt Gaetz, that comparison is, you know, they're worlds apart, even if there might be people who would raise questions about her nomination. Well, and although she has those, as you say, more establishment bona fides than a Matt Gaetz, she also is someone who has been a Trump loyalist. Right. She was very early to endorse him in 2016, when a lot of people in Florida were on board with other candidates, when Trump was viewed much more skeptically. And she's been loyal to him throughout, you know, defending him in the impeachment, as you, noted before. So I think she is due to someone who can sort of bridge, the traditional Republican establishment and sort of MAGA world, because she obviously has been very loyal to Trump and, but she has more traditional experience. So particularly compared to someone like Matt Gaetz, who had barely practiced law, the fact that she has actually been a state attorney general for two terms, that she has done the more traditional, you know, has prosecutorial experience and that sort of thing, I think is going to, really, warm the hearts of a lot of Republican senators who were having so much heartburn over Matt Gaetz and who didn't, who, frankly didn't know where to start with it, you know, was it was it the lack of, qualifications that was most disturbing? Was it the ethics stuff? Was it other stuff? Was it his, you know, politics stuff with possibly having sex with a minor? All of that? Possibly multiple occasions? Yeah. Yeah. Dinner. Well, look, I don't want to attribute any, strategy to the president elect here, but it is kind of genius to put Matt Gaetz out there as sort of a stalking horse. And anybody who put up after that is going to look reasonable. so I think I think a little bit of that is what's happening here. I mean, overall, he's set up. It's largely a vanity project, right? It's a it's an administration full of loyalists. it's a lot of, Fox News contributor. So in a vacuum, I think we'd be saying, wow. I mean, none of these guys seem to have any particular, relevant experience for the job. but, you know, I mean, as somebody who's worried about what the Trump administration may be doing, I'm saying, well, thank God for that, because there's not necessarily a whole lot of conflict, but he should get loyalists. He said, right. No, president does what doesn't go for loyalists. Sure. I mean, you kind of you kind of segway into what I was gonna say, which is that, yes, he she absolutely benefits from not being Matt Gaetz. I mean, you want to follow the person who, you know, went down in flames, you know, that you're just you're going to benefit by comparison. But I don't think we should lose sight of the fact. I mean, she is an ardent 22. She was an ardent 2020 election denier. I mean, there are still fundamental questions about whether somebody being appointed to run, the Justice Department, should be somebody who's willing to just blatantly lie on behalf of the president. And so, you know, yes, obviously, Matt Gaetz is, character flaws, shall we say, and complete lack of experience for the job makes her look better by comparison. But she is still somebody who has been willing to just lie when Trump asked her to. And that's I think that should be of concern to people.