It's really good. You're so hungry and thirsty , you better obey me. You were sent by grandpa. I will be responsible for you. Don't move . Grandpa , I really don't have you . You were caught or we redeemed you. You are still quibbling. I am really I didn't expect that Miss An's family , you actually dare to go out and sell. Sister, don't you find it disgusting? You sleep with everyone and you are not afraid of getting sick . Enough , stop talking. Tiantian, you are going to study abroad starting tomorrow. You are not allowed to come back without my consent, Dad. After all this, you still favor her so much . Grandpa , don't send me away. Grandpa , only I can sit on the position of the eldest lady of the An family. Go to hell. Come and take a look at the sweaters I knitted by myself. They only cost eighty-nine pieces each . Okay, this is a sweater I knitted by myself. I only need eighty-nine pieces . Can I knit it by myself and have a brand? Don't worry . No , they don't know the goods. Go and help mommy , mommy, babies. Why are you here? The sweater mommy knits is not of good quality. She's pretty. You see she's so cute. Yes, I want to buy the sweater his mother knitted. I also want to buy that sweater. Check it out. This dress is so beautiful. I like this one. Get me one . Eighty-nine. I'll scan it first. Wow. Daddy , I'm sorry you picked me first. I'll be back soon to help mommy take a look. Daddy, open the door quickly . I'm Jiuer Jiuer. What are you doing? Mommy , the uncle in the car looks exactly like my brother. It's really him. Although after that night I don't remember that man's face. Sorry, sorry, it's not him. Mommy , I'm so embarrassed. Mommy, will you take you to eat delicious food ? Don't be sad. Mommy made a lot of money today. Let's eat all over the night market today. Okay. Mommy feels uncomfortable, it's so hot. Doctor , what's wrong with the child? Doctor , please help my daughter. She has a fever and is convulsing. Give me the child . You wait while you pay the fee first , but I don't rule out the possibility of being admitted to the ICU. It's because I didn't take good care of Jiu'er. SAVOR IT E NACK I'm sorry , I'm too impatient. I think I've seen this woman somewhere . She still walks barefoot in the winter. It 's been six years. The old man has been in a coma for six years and finally woke up. He named you to see you. Thank you for your hard work, grandpa. You finally woke up. I order you. I must marry the eldest daughter of the An family. It turns out that my grandpa arranged for me to be the eldest daughter of the An family six years ago. 18 TAR Grandpa , I heard that I will definitely marry the eldest daughter of the An family. Come on, come on. Dr. Shu Zhongdi, when will my daughter be released? The patient accidentally ingested it. The allergens are still causing fever and need to be observed for another 24 hours. Family members, go back first. Thank you for your hard work. Grandpa , doctor , my grandpa will be fine . Dr. Shishikai is here. Mr. Lu will be fine. The dean has prepared a lounge for you . Go there and wait. If anything happens, we will inform you . Thank you. No matter who is sick, you must ensure your own health so that you can take care of others. Thank you . How can I return this clothes to you? There is no need to return it to Mr. Lu. I want to know the situation of the eldest daughter of the An family. The eldest daughter of the An family, An Yifei, is twenty-five years old . She is An Zhenyu's only daughter. I want to marry the eldest daughter of the An family as soon as possible. Please help me make an appointment with her for dinner tomorrow . If grandpa is happy, he might wake up earlier. This is Mr. Lu An Jiuer's body. All indicators have returned to normal and we can be discharged. Thank you nurse , Mommy. Whose clothes are you wearing ? He is actually the person in charge of the Lu family, Lu Beichen. Hello, I am General Secretary Lu. What can I do for you ? Hello, I am An Yitian . Mr. Lu lent me a piece of clothing before. I want to return it to him . If he has time, I will send you an address. Come here. Mr. Lu will eat here. Okay , Xiaobao will accompany mommy to a place later. We will have dinner there. Okay, mommy , Jiu'er is going to lie down and get moldy. Wow, what a beautiful restaurant. It must be delicious . Greedy cat, you can sit here and order first. Mommy, go and return the clothes first. Okay, An Yifei is An Yifei and Du Qiu. I'm sorry for ruining my life . This is our Mr. Lu's private venue. Hello , I am Special Assistant Deng who arranged to return your Mr. Lu's clothes. Who is your president who just entered? She is our Mr. Lu's fiancee. This Lu Are you blind? I like An Yifei . Please pay your dry cleaning fee to Mr. Lu. Please pay him back. Hello, you just came in with me. Where is the little girl? She went to wash her hands before eating. The little girl remembers to put on the incense. I will become beautiful. I am a beautiful little princess. Isn't this handsome uncle the one I met at the night market? Hello, handsome uncle. Do you have a child? No, he looks like a doll. Who is her father? What a blessing . What a coincidence. I don't have a daddy. Come here and wipe your hands. Handsome uncle, can we be friends? Give me your phone number and I'll treat you to dinner. Okay. This is my private number. If you need anything, please feel free to do so. Call me and thank you . He's so handsome. Mr. Lu, hello. Please sit down. My nose is so straight. I've had plastic surgery. She said I didn't have plastic surgery . It's because I was born with a straight nose. It's scary. But after plastic surgery, Lu always thinks that my plastic surgery failed. I don't feel anything about her. It's been six years. Ms. An, the woman in front of me, may I ask when was the first time you slept with a man ? Were you sober or confused ? Have you ever received a ring from a man ? I haven't even had a boyfriend yet, let alone a ring like this . I 'm a gift . I'm still a virgin. Is Lu Beichen testing me? Am I stupid? I can't admit that I have ten boyfriends. It turns out that she is not Miss An. I'm here today to negotiate a deal with you, Mr. Lu. Are you asking me? The period of fake marriage with you is one year 2. Party B's obligations are that I can terminate the contract in advance , but during the contract period you can exercise all of Mrs. Lu's rights. After the contract expires, you will receive a compensation of 100 million yuan. I must be in this year. When I become the legitimate Mrs. Lu , then I can really walk sideways. Grandpa , I will fulfill your wish , but I must also find the woman from six years ago. Next Friday, I will come to the house to propose marriage to a good husband. I will wait for you, An Yitian . Isn't she dead? An Yitian, go to hell. You , it's okay if you're not dead. You still have the nerve to come back. You're skinless and shameless , but you're still alive. Are you sweet ? Is this your friend ? This is that child. You have grown so big. What are you doing? I am a good baby. I am five years old this year and I have two older brothers. We are triplets. Jiuer triplets , An Yitian, you are quite awesome . No, I should have slept with you six years ago. That old man is so awesome. No wonder he dresses so tackily. It's hard to take care of three people alone . You are the tacky one. Your whole family is tacky. Auntie, your dress is the most beautiful. What are you doing? Do you know how expensive this dress is? An Yitian, will you? You will educate your children. This child hates An Yifei as much as you do. Be careful what you say. Your mother is a mistress. You are the real illegitimate child. Are you crazy? You actually dare to hit me. An Yitian . I fought with you. Beichen bullied me. Look. What did she do to me? You are my fiance. You must say this for me. I'm sorry. I didn't mean to stain your skirt. Don't hit me. Don't hit my mother. You actually called me Daerjiu . Well done, you uneducated baby. She has already apologized. You can go home, Beichen. Forget it. I am not like women. I don't know how ugly my handsome uncle is. I introduced my beautiful and lovely mommy to you because you like it. Type? It turns out she is Jiu'er's mother. Jiu'er , please shut up your little mouth. Who is Jiu'er's father? He is An Yifei's fiance. Are he and An Yifei together? He also wants to use the child to blackmail me to death. The grass on the grave is three feet high. Where did you see her ? Mommy , this time I want Princess Elsa's sweater . Mommy, I am no longer a three-year-old child. I want a mature striped sweater. I hope you are satisfied, Mommy. This is the one you just knitted last month. This is enough for me. Mommy, don't work too hard. Jiuhe's mommy rarely takes you out to buy clothes. What's good about the clothes outside? Our classmates all say they look good and we chase after them. We need to link up. Even at such a young age, we all know that we need to link up. Second brother, look, I met a handsome uncle today who looks very much like you and eldest brother. Could he be our daddy? Look, this man is so smart. Sweet take it. We ca n't live with him , but Jiu'er just wants him to be our daddy. You and eldest brother are both smart. There are three of us Zhuge Liang in Jiu'er. You were wrong. It's the three cobblers who stand up to Zhuge Liang. Mom really wants to tell Grandpa An Yi. Tian's return to Shanghai, right? Not only do we have to tell the old man Fu that she's back, but we also have to tell him that she brought back three wild children. She's in Bo City this time. It's just a joke . Doesn't the old man love face so much? An Yitian lets him Can't hold her head up 7 She can't get any benefit from settling in our house. The eldest lady, Uncle Hua, is it really you. How did you know that I live here ? The old man asked me to take you home for six years. He misses you very much. I miss you too . Grandpa , Miss, Tiantian is back . Grandpa, Tiantian , it's been six years. Why haven't you contacted Grandpa ? Do you know how much Grandpa misses you? Grandpa , how can she have the nerve to contact you? She slept with the old man back then and she is not an old man. Oh, if he's not an old man , he's a showman. Okay, what's the fuss about ? It's rare for Tiantian to come back . Grandpa , not only did she sleep with the old man , but she also gave birth to the old man's three wild children. A daughter and two sons . Why did she really give birth to that wild child ? We settled in Shanghai , but You are a wealthy and respectable family . We have all lost our face. They are my children , not wild children . According to what you say, you and Du Qiusheng's An Yifei are also wild children. Do you talk to your elders like this? You said that? Those three children are not wild children, right? Then who is their father? These three children are really pitiful. They have never had a father to love them. They have not loved enough. The children are innocent and sweet. Come here to grandpa. Grandpa , I shouldn't come back. You are the only one. It's not easy for a person to move back with three children, right? The Lu family, the largest family in Shanghai, is coming to propose marriage soon. If the Lu family knew that she was pregnant before marriage and had three children , they would think that our An family has a promiscuous family style and does not know how to behave . What should I do if I marry a concubine ? Grandpa , Tiantian , she is a loser. Only I can make our An family proud and proud. I don't want grandpa to embarrass me when I leave. Master Lu is here. Beichen , you are here. Grandpa An, Mr. Lu is here. Can you like us? Concubine, our An family is really lucky. Grandpa An, this is An Yitian . If An Yitian is also the young lady of the An family , it would be good to find someone to propose marriage to. She is the daughter of our servant. Servant father, the family ugliness should not be made public. Yes , servant. My daughter is an eyesore to Mr. Lu. I will let her go right away . It's okay . Dad, Tiantian, is the most capable maid in our family. Tiantian , why don't you go to the kitchen to help serve the dishes ? I am the legitimate eldest lady of the An family. 5 Okay Miss An , Grandpa Lu, is sincerely seeking to marry An Yifei. Are you satisfied with the one billion dowry gift ? The betrothal gift is not important as long as you really like our concubine. Your grandpa and I are old acquaintances. It would be better if we got married . Lu Since you and your concubine are so close, why don't you set your wedding date next month? You 're worthy enough to fight An Yitian with me. Are you jealous that I'm marrying a better man than you? So you deliberately poured your love on Beichen. Poison! I don't have An Yifei. You idiot can't even serve a dish. What else can you do? Mr. Lu, I'm sorry. I'll fire this clumsy girl right away. Concubine, how about you accompany Mr. Lu upstairs to change clothes ? Are you okay? I'm fine. I'm sorry that Mr. Lu soiled your clothes. Can I give you a sweater? An Yitian. Mr. Lu's clothes are all high-end. You can give me a cheap sweater. If you want to be shameless, I 'm short of it. A sweater, why is Beichen so tolerant to An Yitian? Mommy, the landlord has just arrived, otherwise she would have rented it to someone else , and the rent has increased by 5,000. Don't worry , Mommy will pay the rent tomorrow and we won't be kicked out by her. Lu, King of Hell, you said you scared all those girls away. Let's play a trick. I want a few more . Hey , be careful. I will be married soon. Why are you pretending to be a good man? It's not An Yi you like. Concubine , by the way , there is a highlight tonight. The Dance Queen of the Nightless City is back. I heard that she has a pure appearance and a very good figure. I am not interested . Chen , after so many years, I don't know what the woman you have been looking for looks like . I know it's not you, but you don't know what she looks like . Then how do you find her? I gave her a ring. Follow the ring and I will definitely find her. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to our beautiful, sexy and charming Dancing Queen Bunny. Why is she here? It's so beautiful. This is the first time I've seen someone dancing on a pole like this . It doesn't feel out of place. It 's like a fairy descending to earth. I like this woman. If I don't mind becoming a stepfather, you can try something. Her daughter is five or six years old and her children are that big. It's a pity that you still have such a hot figure . Fifty- two thousand. Congratulations to this gentleman for having a drink with Little Rabbit for 20,000 yuan. Sir , I'd like to toast you. I wish you a happy night. Little Rabbit, I paid so much money , but it's not just that. For this glass of wine, I can play with the young master for a while. I can give you a little more money. Sir , if you want to drink a few more drinks, I can accompany you. But if you want to play, I can help you find other ways to pretend. Don't give me any shame. Mr. Ben wants you tonight. Who are you? You dare to throw wine at me. What do you mean by sharing a drink ? It's obvious that you don't understand people's words. Who dares to kick me, Mr. Lu? This is the woman you like, Mr. Lu. Sorry , I can't see Taishan. Thank you for my mobile phone. You still want to go back and be humiliated by them, right? An Yitian, how short of money are you? It's just 20,000 yuan. I gave it to you and you helped me just to humiliate me. Who wants your money? Who am I being bullied by? It has nothing to do with you. What are you doing? Put me down, Lu Beichen, you are An Yifei's fiance , you care what I do. An Yitian, your daughter is so cute and you are working here, don't you think it's dangerous? What will she do if something happens to you? That's the way it is with me. People got pregnant and gave birth at a young age and didn't even go to college and failed as mothers. Let them suffer with me. In your eyes, I am unbearable and useless , but I didn't ask you to help me. I can be self-reliant. Mommy, get up and let's go to school. You 're going to be late, honey , please ask the landlady to drop you off. I caught a cold last night. Sweetie , your forehead is so hot. You seem to have a fever. Mommy, let's take you to the hospital. SI ACK. Mommy is okay. Mommy is okay. You go to school soon . Mommy can't go to the hospital by herself. We have to accompany you. You guys go to school quickly. Mommy said that if you go to school well , mommy will be happy and the disease will be cured. Okay, mommy, remember to take medicine. Well, you have a handsome uncle. I am Jiu'er. Help. Address: No. 150, Snowflake Lane. Password: 520911. Hurry up and prepare a car to go to Snowflake Lane. Mr. Lu will cancel at 9:30. Jiuer must be in danger before he calls me help. Jiuer, where are you ? I want to drink water. How about drinking water slowly ? Paper snot Why is her snot so cute? Why are you so hot here ? How many degrees did you burn? It's so cool and comfortable . An Yitian, are you feeling uncomfortable? Let me take you to the hospital. ON Go to the hospital. It's going to cost a lot of money. I won't go. I don't want to go to the hospital. An Yitian , I'm sleepy . Did Chen and Xiaotu have a perfect night? An Yitian has a fever of about 39 degrees. What should I do? You play with people until they have a fever. You are so wolfish. Ah , do you want to beat you until you have a fever? No, no, no, Mr. Lu , just give Xiaotu some antipyretic medicine and then wipe her body with alcohol. Okay, I understand. An Yitian, get up and drink the medicine. Be good and drink . Do you want to drink Yao An Yi Tian ? If you don't cooperate, don't blame me for being rude. She tastes like that woman six years ago, Xiao Tian. Who are you ? Are you her husband? She's pretty handsome . I'm Xiao Tian's. When the landlord Xiaotian rented my house, I was willing to rent it to her at a low price because she was pitiful and had a child. Now I owe the rent for more than half a year. If I don't pay, I will rent it to someone else. How much is the rent? Right, this is considered a man . Eight thousand a month , six months and forty-eight thousand a year. Rent for a year . Thank you, Sister Huang, for giving me two days. Xiaotian, you have really good taste. You have found such a bold and handsome husband. Do you want it? Hold on, it's not that you are wrong, Sister Huang, I 'm not familiar with him , I understand, I understand. Bye, bye, Sister Huang, you're better. I paid the rent for you. Remember to pay me back 100,000 yuan . You paid a year's rent. You're stupid. You gave Sister Huang an extra 4,000 yuan. I originally wanted to help you buy it, but this house is too dilapidated and not suitable for purchase . By the way, I'll take care of you. You turned down three meetings in one morning, and the total loss was only more than 10 million. I'll take care of it. Your fee is calculated as one percent of the friendly price , which is one hundred thousand. Now you owe me a total of two hundred thousand and two hundred thousand, Mr. Lu . , but I didn't ask you to take care of me. AVON TE SNACK L It 's your daughter who asked you to take care of me. She's really a good daughter of mine , and I'm such a kind-hearted person , so I can take care of you by the way. Shouldn't you pay for it ? Or do you want Jiu'er to pay for it? Okay, SNACK, let Jiu'er go to my house to do hard work like sweeping the floor, scrubbing toilets, etc. No , Jiu'er is still so young. SNACK, how can she do hard work? SNACK, I'll do it if I do. Do you really think I'll let Jiu'er do hard work, she? If you go to my house , you are an ancestor and you have to provide for it . If I go there , I am an ancestor. You are the one who works. SNACK. By the way, IT E SNACK. Wait for me. I said before that I would give you a sweater. I don't know if the size is right. What kind of clothes do you try on that suit you ? You really don't treat me like an outsider. Do you look good? He's really handsome. That's okay. It's quite suitable . How do you know my body size so well ? I don't understand. I just knit often . You knitted this sweater for me with your own hands . NO. If you think my knitting workmanship is not good, I can buy you another one. I like it very much. You knitted a sweater just for me. How is it possible that I often knit for babies ? I mean only for one man, Mr. Lu. 1. Who have I knitted for? 3. What does it have to do with you? Then from now on, you can only knit for me. Why should I knit for someone else ? Whoever we knit for depends on Mommy. We are back, Mommy. You have three children, triplets. Yes, the child's father is very good. It's a pity that he is dead. Handsome uncle, I knew you were the best. I will take care of you, Mommy. Mommy. Why are your lips swollen like little sausages? Let me see, Mommy. Is your lip broken because of a fever? Mommy, let's go to the hospital to check. Why are your lips swollen? In fact, it will be better in a day or two. You don't need to go to the hospital. Mr. Lu's child. You are all here, please save some face for me, Mr. Lu, come and say goodbye, my children. Goodbye, CAV OR IT SAVOR IT. Cousin , cousin, I'm back in China. I miss you so much. You must come to my birthday party tomorrow . Well, see you tomorrow. What can you give me? With SAVOR IT E SNACK, this is the ring that daddy gave you? SAVOR IT E SNACK SAVO , you still want to see what the ring is for. V ORITE , it doesn't matter. Daddy will give mommy a more beautiful ring in the future. Oh , sweet sister, you are finally here, Enoch . Oh, by the way, this is a gift I brought back from abroad for my three nieces and nephews. I don't know if they like it. Enoch , today is your birthday and you specially prepared a gift for my children. Sister Tiantian , who will follow whom? I also prepared a birthday gift for you. What is An Yifei doing here? We are a mistress's child and we didn't invite them . Sister, here are the purple freshwater pearls and blue and white porcelain vase that my fiance and I gave you. An Yifei, who is your fiance? You can also give away antiques from the Tang Dynasty. Could they be found on Taobao market? Our Yifei's fiance is not very powerful , that is, Lu Beichen, the eldest young master of the Lu family , can Lu Beichen like An? Why do you concubine, young lady , if you need anything, please call me concubine again . Congratulations, you are really lucky. Sister- in-law, you will have endless good days in the future. Such a good son-in-law will not be envied by the entire Shanghai market. Yes , of course, our concubine is so good that she will naturally attract good men. Mr. Lu, what's the matter? Where are you? Have you forgotten to do hard work for me ? I haven't forgotten me. It's inconvenient today. Where are you? It's okay to be so noisy . I'm here to pick you up . Lu, are you here to pick up me or your fiancee? My concubine, my second uncle, I want to give you a toast today. By the way, find some time. Let Mr. Lu Beichen and Mr. Lu get to know us. We are all a family, right ? Well, if you want to get to know Beichen, it's not impossible or impossible . It's just that my Beichen is very principled, but my Beichen is very principled and won't risk anything for me. He won't risk anything for me. Yeah, yeah, don't be embarrassed. Concubine, please don't embarrass me. Concubine, she has just gotten along with others. She has just gotten along with others. When she gets married, when she gets married, you are all relatives. You are all relatives. Yes, yes, yes, the whole family is all relatives. The whole family is all relatives, all are relatives, all are relatives, oh, oh, sister Tiantian, sister Tiantian, what are you doing here? What are you doing here? Look at An Yifei's pride. Look at An Yifei's pride at home. Everyone regards her as a member of the family. Everyone regards her as a quasi-Mrs. Lu. quasi-Mrs. Lu. She keeps fawning and fawning. I'm going to vomit. I'm going to vomit. Yes, this is your birthday gift from me. It's from me. Thank you for your birthday gift, sister Tiantian. Thank you, sister Tiantian. Xiaonuo Xiaonuo, your eldest sister. What gift did your eldest sister give you? What gift did she give you? She is now raising three children by herself. She is now raising three children by herself. The child gives you shabby things. I give you shabby things. Don't mind. Don't mind. I like everything my eldest sister gives me. I like everything my eldest sister gives me. Oh , yes, yes, yes. You can take what you give. Come, let me see. Come, let me see . Hey, hey, hey , what a big diamond ring. What a big diamond ring. If this is sold at the night market, if it is sold at the night market, it can be sold for dozens of dollars. Can it be sold? It's dozens of dollars, right? Open your eyes and see clearly. Open your eyes and see clearly. This is a real diamond ring. This is a real diamond ring. Although it's not worth a few bucks , it's still a little bit of my thoughts. It's also a little bit of my heart . What are you doing to steal my things? What are you doing to steal my things? This is Bourbon Parma Dynasty. Bourbon Parma Dynasty Jewelry Diamond Jewelry Diamond Sweet Sister Sweet Sister, you are too generous, aren't you? That's generous, right? But it's so expensive, I can't accept it. It's so expensive, I can't accept it. What's Boba Parma? What's Boba Parma? Your eldest sister is so vain. Your eldest sister is so vain. I gave you tattered fakes. You are just a tattered fake. Second sister, second sister, second sister, you have suffered the consequences of being uneducated. You have suffered the consequences of being uneducated. This diamond ring originally belonged to this diamond ring. It originally belonged to the last queen of France, the last queen of France, Marie-Antoine. Queen Marie Antoinette 's diamond ring was sold at a Geneva auction six years ago for a sky-high price of 250 million U.S. dollars. The sky-high price of the U.S. dollar has created the highest record for diamond auctions in history. The ring is worth so much. It's impossible. It's impossible. 250 million. 250 million. That's RMB. That's RMB Seventeen hundred million, seventeen hundred million, An Yinuo, An Yinuo, are you stupid when you study abroad? Are you stupid when you study abroad? How could such a precious jewelry be in An Yitian ? How could it be in An Yitian? An Yitian just wants to be really worth so much money. If she is really worth so much money, she will be willing to give it to you. She will be willing to give it to you. This is the fake goods on the street stalls. This is the fake goods on the street stalls. I'm sorry, Enoch. I'm sorry, Enoch. This was given to me by someone else. This was given to me by someone else. I shouldn't have given it to you without authenticating it. I shouldn't have given it to you without authenticating it. I gave it to you, Sister Tiantian. Sister Tiantian, I studied abroad. I studied jewelry appraisal abroad. I majored in jewelry appraisal. Believe me, believe me. Enoch, Enoch , that's you, that's you, so kind, so kind. Your sister gave you a fake diamond ring. Your sister gave you a fake diamond ring. Your sister gave you a fake diamond ring If this is true, if this is true, it is impossible, impossible, if this is true, if this is true, if this is true. If this is true, why is An Yitian so bitter? A person works many jobs, works many jobs, and raises three children, all of whom are as cold and cultivated as wild children. Han Xiu , you, An Yifei, An Yifei, you said I can, you said I can , but you can't talk about my child, but you can't talk about my child, if this diamond ring is real, if this diamond ring is real, you have to do it. Kneel down and kowtow to me and apologize. You have to kneel down and kowtow to me and apologize. You have to kneel down and kowtow to me and apologize. You have to kneel down and kowtow to me and apologize. That's great. Sister Tiantian is so good. Sister Tiantian is so good. Beat Sister Tiantian. It's so good. Sister Tiantian , I believe, I believe, you won't hurt me. You won't hurt me. You won't hurt me. You won't hurt me. Okay, okay. If this ring is real. If this ring is real. I not only kowtow to you, I not only kowtow to you, I also slap myself in the face. I also slap myself in the face while apologizing to you. If this is fake, what should I do if this is fake? Take this liar's clothes and put this liar away. Strip me naked in public, strip me naked in public, let me go, let me go , An Yifei, are you crazy ? At a young age, An Yitian was so promiscuous in her private life. She was so promiscuous in her private life. Now she still loves vanity. Now she still loves vanity. She is full of lies. This is the shame of the An family. This is the shame of the An family. She should be taught a lesson. She should be taught a lesson. Let me go, sweet. Sweetie, let me go. Sweetie , please stop. Stop. I am a national jewelry appraiser. I am a national jewelry appraiser. I can appraise. I can appraise. This is my teacher. This is my teacher. Professor Quinn. Professor Quinn. He is The world's top jewelry appraiser. He is the world's top jewelry appraiser. He is famous at home and abroad. He is famous at home and abroad. And he can identify the authenticity of this jewelry. He can identify the authenticity of this jewelry. Hold a pot of fire. Hold a pot of fire. Fire can be used to identify the authenticity of diamonds. Fire can be used to identify the authenticity of diamonds. This is the use of fire. This is the use of fire to identify the authenticity of diamonds. To identify the authenticity of diamonds? Does this still need to be identified? Does this still need to be identified? This junk thing is this If the rags are thrown into the fire, they will definitely be thrown into the fire. There will definitely be no dregs left long ago. There will be no dregs left long ago . When the diamonds dissolve into dregs, when the diamonds dissolve into dregs, I see how An Yitian can still quibble. I see An Yitian. How can you argue with sweetness? Wow, it's so beautiful. Wow, it's so beautiful. It's so beautiful. How it burns brighter and brighter. How it burns brighter and brighter. What a beautiful starlight effect. What a beautiful starlight effect. This diamond ring is simply rare in the world. This diamond ring is simply rare in the world. Real gold is not afraid of being refined by fire. Gold is not afraid of fire , diamonds are the same, diamonds are the same, fake diamonds, fake diamonds will melt in the fire, but if they are, but if they are really expensive, rare diamonds, really expensive, rare diamonds Not only will it not melt, not only will it not melt the burned diamond, the burned diamond will have a shining star effect and a shining star effect. I'll say it. I'll say it. This is the real deal. This is the real deal. Bourbon Parma dynasty diamond Bourbon Parma dynasty diamond How is it possible How is it possible This diamond ring is so precious This diamond ring is so precious Why did he give it to me Why did he give me such an expensive diamond ring Such an expensive diamond ring Oh my god, oh my god, this is actually It's really a royal jewel. This is actually a royal jewel. I never dreamed. I never dreamed . A diamond ring. A diamond ring worth 1.7 billion. It's worth 1.7 billion. Sweet, who gave you this diamond ring? Sweet, who gave this? Is your diamond ring the child's father? Is it the child's father? Sweet, sweet, sweet, your child's father, your child's father , isn't it? It 's not a foreign royal prince, a foreign royal prince, of course not a foreign prince, of course not a foreign country Of course he is not a prince. Of course he is not a foreign prince. An Yitian An Yitian, are you kneeling and licking some old man? Are you kneeling and licking some old man? You are so willing, so willing, Lu Beichen gave me so many betrothal gifts, Lu Beichen gave The total value of all my betrothal gifts is only one billion. The total value is only one billion. Why is this diamond ring worth 1.7 billion? Why is this diamond ring worth 1.7 billion? No matter who gave it before, no matter who gave it before, now now. I have given the ring to Xiao Nuo. I have given the ring to Xiao Nuo. This ring belongs to Xiao Nuo. This ring belongs to Xiao Nuo. My is so sweet, my is so sweet. How can this be so embarrassing? How can this be? Sorry, you are so kind to our Xiao Nuo. You are so kind to our Xiao Nuo. It's not in vain that my second aunt likes you so much. It's not in vain that my second aunt likes you so much. What are you pretending to be? What are you pretending to be? I don't believe you are so willing. I just I don't believe you are so willing to give up An Yitian. An Yitian. I look at this ring. I think this ring was not given to you by others. It was not given to you by others. It was stolen by you. It was stolen by you. It was stolen. An Yitian. Fei'an Yifei, I haven't settled the score with you yet. I haven't settled the score with you yet. You've come to slander me again. You've come to slander me again. This diamond ring is real. This diamond ring is real. Are you right? Should you kowtow and slap me and apologize? It's time for you to kowtow and slap your face and apologize. Second sister, your words don't count. Second sister, your words don't count. Shameless. Shameless. She stole the ring. She stole it. Who am I? Who am I to kneel down and admit my mistake to a thief? The thief kneels down and admits his mistake. If you have the ability, tell me. If you have the ability, tell me who gave you this ring. Who gave you this ring? Call the person who gave you the ring. Call the person who gave you the ring. Ah , yes, yes, if it is not stolen, why are you so generous? Why are you so generous? Give it away when you say it, give it away when you say it, oh, you have a small belly of chicken intestines, oh, you have a small belly of chicken intestines, you are still jealous of my big sister, you are still jealous of my big sister Sister is kind and generous. Kind and generous. You should never bully others too much. You should never bully others too much. You must not deceive others too much. You must not deceive others too much. only one who can afford a diamond ring worth 1.7 billion, a diamond ring worth 1.7 billion, should be my fiance. Lu Beichen, Lu Beichen, do you want to say? Do you want to say that my fiance gave you this ring? Did he give you this ring? What are you dreaming about? What are you dreaming about? You are peaceful and sweet . Tian'an Yitian, You still think you have embarrassed Anjia's face. You still think you have embarrassed Anjia's face. Didn't you lose enough? Didn't you lose enough? You are now using vanity to vote. You are now using vanity. I actually learned how to steal. Tell me whose diamond ring you stole. Whose diamond ring did you steal? We are all your children. We are all your children. Why do you always believe An Yifei? I always believe An Yifei. I don't believe it. I don't believe my eldest uncle. Do you have evidence? Do you have evidence? Why do you say it was stolen by the eldest sister? Why do you say it was stolen by the eldest sister? I educate my children. I educate my children. There is no need for you, junior, to interrupt. There is no need for you, junior, to interrupt . An Zhenyu, An Zhenyu, what are you doing? Tiantian is not a sneaky person. Tiantian is not a sneaky person. Uh-huh. One billion less, please come out. A Mom, no one billion less, I'm almost there. A Mom, no one billion less, I'm almost here. Gift I sent gift I sent Qing Zhe Qing Zhi Qing If you say I stole this, if you You say I stole it . Then you find the evidence. Then you find the evidence and let the police arrest me. Let the police arrest me. Sweet sister, wait, sweet sister, wait, sweet sister, sweet sister, such an expensive diamond ring, such an expensive diamond ring. I definitely can't accept it, I definitely can't accept it, Xiao Nuo Xiao Nuo, I said I gave it to you, I said I gave it to you, I won't take it back, I won't take it back again, this is from the King of France, this is a gift from the King of France Queen Mary's token of love. A token of token of love given to Queen Mary. Sister Tiantian , I believe it is also your token of love. Your token of token of love. Don't let him down. Don't let him down. Tiantian, you're here by car. No, Tiantian, you're here by car. No, I'll ask the driver to take you back. I'll ask the driver to take you back. No, second aunt. No, second aunt. I called Didi. I called Didi. I'll be there immediately. Here comes the second aunt, the second aunt, you are kind-hearted, you are kind-hearted, An Yitian, she stole something, An Yitian, she stole something, and she feels guilty and wants to run away. She feels guilty and wants to run away. I see you, I see you don't even have money for Didi. You don't even have money for Didi, right? Lu Beichen, why did Lu Beichen drive such a high-profile car today? Come drive such a high-profile car, come Xiao Nuo, second aunt, Xiao Nuo, second aunt, my car has arrived, my car has arrived, I will leave first. Yeah, I'm leaving first. This Didi is not blue. This Didi is not blue. Why is it black? How is it black? Maybach is running. Didi. Maybach is running. Didi. This car has landed. Six million. This car has landed. Just six million is a man's dream. It's a man's dream. I didn't expect that I would get such a good car by taking a taxi. I would get such a good car by taking a taxi. What did I say about her? What did she say about An Yi? Tian, she just wants to be safe. She just wants to pretend in front of her family. Pretend in front of her family. You can't even open the car door. You can't even open the car door. Stop pretending . Stop pretending. This will only make us all like this. It will make all of us look down upon you even more. Yeah, yeah, An Yitian, An Yitian, An Yitian , I tell you, I tell you, if this car goes for Didi, if this car goes for Didi, I will swallow the car, I will swallow it. I did n't expect you, girl, to be so bad at such a young age. You were so bad at such a young age . You stole things and you lied and you stole things and you lied. It's so bad. It 's so bad. Isn't it sweet? The car is fine, sweet. The car is fine. Sweet. The car is fine. Sweet . No car. It's fine. We can send you. We can send you. Mr. Lu, open the door . Driving: The big boss is driving the car himself. This is embarrassing. This is embarrassing. Sister Tiantian, sister Tiantian, are you sure you are driving Didi? Are you sure you are driving Didi? Isn't he a boyfriend? Isn't he a boyfriend? This car is used to run Didi. I don't believe it is used to run Didi. I don't believe it . It's too rare. That's too rare. Tell me, is this car owner just giving it to you? Is this car owner just giving you Bourbon Parma Dynasty? Bourbon Parma Dynasty The man of diamonds, the man of diamonds, it's really my Didi. It's really my Didi. Then I'll go first, then I'll leave first, let's go, An Yitian really An Yitian really got into a luxury car . She was sitting in the passenger seat. She was sitting in the passenger seat. She didn't know how. She didn't really have a very arrogant boyfriend. She really had a very arrogant boyfriend. Boyfriend, this person's profile is a special expert. This person's profile is a special expert. It looks like Sister Tiantian's boyfriend. It looks like Sister Tiantian's boyfriend is handsome and rich. He is handsome and rich. His identity is extraordinary. An Enochian An Enochian you. Do you have a problem with your eyes? Do you have a problem with your eyes? I clearly saw an old, fat, bald old man sitting in the car. An old, fat, bald man. Forget it. Love. Believe it or not, forget it, believe it or not, mom, mom is really an old man, is she really an old man , or a bald head, or a bald head, oh, oh, oh, I'm talking nonsense, what's so great about luxury cars, what's so great about luxury cars, the whole Shanghai city, the whole Shanghai city Who else can be more arrogant than my fiance? Who can be more arrogant than my fiance Lu Beichen? Lu Beichen is more arrogant. I have arrived, Mr. Lu. Mr. Lu, this is your home, this is your home, yes, yes, are you ready to be a coolie? Are you ready? Are you a coolie? Me, me. What happened to your face? What happened to your face? The An family beat you. The An family beat you. No, no, no , Mr. Lu. Mr. Lu, what do you need me to do as a coolie? What do you need me to do as a coolie? I'm done. After you finish , you still have to go home to spend time with your children. You still have to go home to spend time with your children. What is this? What is this? Someone else gave it to me. Someone else gave it to my man. Someone gave it to your man. Who did it give you? Who is Mr. Lu? Mr. Lu, do you live by the seaside? Do you live by the seaside? Is it so lenient? It's so lenient. If you have nothing to do, if you have nothing to do, then go take care of your fiancee. Just go and take care of your fiancee. Why do you, your grandpa, insist that my grandpa insist that I marry An Yifei? Why are you marrying An Yifei? Mr. Lu, please tell me. What kind of hard work do you need? What kind of hard work can I do for you? Wow, wow, you have so much wool in your house. You have so much wool in your house. Wow, there are so many colors. Wow, there are so many colors. Mr. Lu, do you want me to teach you how to knit a sweater? Teach you how to knit a sweater. What are you thinking about? What are you thinking about? I hope. I hope. You help my grandparents. You help my grandparents . Knit a sweater. Ten thousand sweaters. Ten thousand, okay, okay, okay, okay. Then I will pay off my debt to you quickly. I have paid off the money I owe you. My grandpa is 183. My grandpa is 183. Weight is 140 pounds. Weight is 140 pounds. My grandma is 165. My grandma is 165. My grandma is 165. Weight is 121. Weight is 121. I remember. I don't remember. No. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. Mr. Lu, Mr. Lu, then I took it home and knitted it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is a gift for me. This is a gift for my grandparents. It's a gift from my grandparents. I watched you with my own eyes. When I knit, I watch you knit with my own eyes. I feel more at ease. I feel more at ease. Will I poison the sweater? Will I poison the sweater ? Or what? I take it home and knit it. Is there anything I don't worry about? I take it home and knit it. Is there anything I don't worry about ? I can't finish knitting today. I can't finish knitting tomorrow. I have to come tomorrow. I have to come tomorrow. I can't finish knitting. Continue knitting the day after tomorrow. Tomorrow I can't finish knitting. Continue knitting the day after tomorrow. Shhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhinging squeezing my sweater . You knit well. Then you knit well. I went to work. I went to work. I tied, I tied, what did you say? What did you say? I said I wanted to give it to grandma. I said I wanted to tie a beautiful little flower for grandma. Prick a beautiful little flower, be sensible , be sensible, my head hurts so much, my head hurts so much. Come over here and press it for me. Come over and press it for me. Do you want to charge Mr. Lu for the massage ? Do you want to charge Mr. Lu? How much is appropriate? How much is appropriate? Well, oh, oh, oh, I've been in Los Angeles on a three-day business trip. I've been in Los Angeles on a three-day business trip, and I haven't had a good sleep. I've also had to catch a three-hour flight. I've also had to catch a three-hour flight here. Pick you up, pick you up, oh, oh, oh, it hurts even more, it hurts, okay, okay, then I will press it for you for free, then I will press it for you for free, go up a little bit, go up a little bit, this is the right, right, right, right, right . This is this . Isn't this the car just now? Isn't this the car just now? Is it Lu Beichen? Did Lu Beichen really go to pick up that woman? Really went to pick up that woman? What are you doing? What are you doing? An Yifei is here. What is An Yifei doing? Yeah, what are you doing? Let me go. Let me go. Let me go. What are you doing? Beichen . Beichen. Beichen. I'm looking for you . This is a single-sided glass. She can't see you. She can't see you. You 're really sick. You're really sick. We're clearly clear. We're clear and clear. Now it's not clear. Now it's not clear. Okay, okay, then I'll go. Tell An Yifei, then I'll tell An Yifei, no, no, no, Mr. Lu, Mr. Lu, Boss Lu, I beg you, I beg you, I beg you, I beg you, please send An Yifei away, give An Yifei. Send it away. I can knit you more. I can knit you more for free. Knit a few more sweaters for free. Can you knit a few more sweaters for free ? Can you? Unless that, unless from now on, you won't knit sweaters for any men. You won't knit sweaters for any men. Sweater, you don't knit a sweater for any man, deal, deal, I'm tired, I'm tired, go back, go back, take you to see your grandparents next week, take you to see your grandparents next week, Beichen said, Beichen said he would take me home to see you. The old man wants to take me home to see the old man , that is, I still have this qualification, that is, I still have this qualification. Who is An Yitian? What is An Yitian? Okay, okay, then you can knit well. Then knit your sweater well and knit it as soon as possible. Knit it as soon as possible . Send it to your grandparents in person. Send it to your grandparents in person. I will send it to you and I will send it to you. Good old man, it will be fine if I wake up. It will be fine if I wake up. Although I can't do it for the time being. You can't speak. As long as we treat it well, it will get better. As long as we treat it well, it will definitely get better. Miss An, Miss An, you are here, you are here, Grandma Lu, Grandpa Lu, Grandma Lu, Grandpa Lu, this is here to deliver clothes. Miss An, this is here. Miss An, who delivered the clothes, Grandma Lu, hello, Grandma Lu , this is Miss An, this is Miss An, Grandma Lu, Grandma Lu, this is Chen'er, who always praises you, Chen'er, who always praises you, Chen'er, who always praises you for knitting. The knitted sweater is so comfortable that I don't even want to take it off. I don't want to take it off yet. You still have to go to the trouble. Knit one piece for us, the old couple. Knit one piece for each of us. No trouble, no trouble. As long as you two I like it. As long as you two like it, I'm happy. I'm happy. Look, look, I forgot about the old man. I forgot about the old man. Come on, let's come on. Come on, grandpa Lu, grandpa Lu, granddaughter-in-law. Granddaughter-in-law. Suit. Miss An gave it today. It's a sweater. Miss An gave me a sweater today, not a suit, not a suit. This is my granddaughter-in-law. This is my granddaughter-in-law. Why can't I speak at the critical moment ? Why can't I speak? I ca n't speak . Don't be in a hurry. I can't tell you. Don't be in a hurry. Just listen to our chat. Just listen to our chat. It's so exquisite. It's so exquisite. Miss An. Miss An, you are a brand clothing store, right? You are a brand clothing store, right? No, I have three children. I have three children. I often knit for them. I often knit for them. Miss An is so young. Miss An is so young. She has three children. She has three children, great-grandchildren, great-grandchildren. This old man today. Why are you so excited today ? Why are you so excited? Are you uncomfortable? Are you uncomfortable? I am very happy. I am very happy. I have three great-grandchildren. I have three great-grandchildren. Can you not be excited? Can you not be excited? Grandpa Grandpa , why is An Yitian here? Why is An Yitian here ? Grandpa, grandpa, I brought your grandson-in-law to see you. I brought your grandson-in-law to see you. Grandpa and grandma, okay, grandpa and grandma, this is you, this is your favorite An family. Miss An's favorite, the eldest daughter of the An family, as long as you are happy, as long as you are happy, ouch ouch ouch ouch Chen'er, Chen'er, why did you admit the wrong person, how did you admit the wrong person, Grandma Lu, Grandma Lu, Grandpa Lu, Grandpa Lu I was very excited and patted my thigh. I was very excited and patted my thigh. Did he pee? Did he pee? It might be true, it might be that he felt uncomfortable. If he felt uncomfortable, then let me press it for you. Then I'll press it for you . Then I'll take it first. Then I'll take it first. Take our old man. Take our old man. Take our old man Oh, my granddaughter-in-law, my granddaughter-in-law . My three great-grandchildren, my three great-grandchildren, slow down, slow down, you continue, you continue, Mr. Lu, Mr. Lu , I have delivered the things, I have delivered the things , I will leave first, I will leave first, etc. Wait, wait, I have something to say to you. I have something to say to you. Let's go after eating. Let's go after eating. I'm going to see grandpa. I'm going to see grandpa. Sit down for a while. Sit down for a while . Hey , An Yitian, An Yitian, what qualifications do you have to stay in the Lu family? What qualifications do you have to stay in the Lu family? I originally didn't want to stay here to eat, but I didn't want to stay here to eat, but you don't want to see me so much. But look. If you don't want to see me so much, then I have to eat this meal longer. I have to eat longer and be fuller. You are shameless. You are shameless . You have three children. You have three children . I like Lu Beichen and I also like Lu Beichen. Do you think the Lu family? Do you think the Lu family can fall in love with your three oil bottles? Can you fall in love with your three oil bottles? My man, my man, gave me a 1.7 billion one. He gave me a 1.7 billion royal collection diamond ring. The royal collection diamond ring is so sparkling. It's so sparkling. Oh, the betrothal gift Lu Beichen gave you. The betrothal gift Lu Beichen gave you seems to be only one billion. It's only one billion. Well , it's because I don't like him. It's because I don't like him. Old man, you sleep with me too. You sleep with me too. You're so dirty. You're so dirty. This is Lu's house. This is Lu's house. I'm Lu Beichen's guest. I'm Lu Beichen. Guests here, look at how many servants are looking at you. Look at how many servants are looking at you. If you hit someone, if you hit someone, if you let Grandpa Lu and Old Mrs. Lu, if you let Grandpa Lu and Old Mrs. Lu know, know them. Will they still like you? Will they still like you? Grandpa, grandpa , you really peed. You really peed. Great- great-grandson, great -grandson Chen'er . It seems that the old man really likes the eldest lady of the An family. He really likes the eldest lady of the An family. He He is urging you to have a child quickly. He is urging you to have a child quickly. Grandpa, grandpa, I will marry An Yifei. I will marry An Yifei, but the child, the child, hey, hey , Chen'er knows, Chen'er knows, I'm wrong, I'm wrong, I'm wrong , I admit it. You made a mistake. Grandpa, don't be angry. Grandpa, don't be angry. Grandpa, why are you so angry? Why are you so angry? I will watch over your grandson for you. I will watch over your grandson for you. I will too. I will urge him, don't be angry, don't be angry, don't be angry, grandpa, grandpa, I know you are angry, I know you are angry, I will marry An Yifei, I will marry An Yifei , but I will definitely I won't have children, but I definitely won't have children. If I'm here, it will only make you unhappy. If I 'm here, it will only make you unhappy. Then I'll leave first. Then I'll leave first for two days and then come to see you for two days. Let's see you again. An Yifei. An Yifei. The driver is waiting for you outside. The driver is waiting for you outside. He will take you home. He will take you home. Don't you want to have dinner? Don't you want to have dinner? If you don't eat, don't eat, I will follow you. Grandpa has something to say. I also have something to say to grandpa. Grandpa is in a bad mood and won't eat. Grandpa is in a bad mood and won't eat. What about An Yitian? What about An Yitian? Isn't she going? Isn't she going? I have something to say to her. Tell her that I have something to say. You go back first. Go back . Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. An Yitian. Wait for me. An Yitian. Wait for me. Mr. Lu, Mr. Lu, what do you want to say to me? What do you want to say to me? What do you want to consider? Do you want to consider being my personal secretary? Being my personal secretary, 24 hours on call, 24 hours on call, one hundred thousand a month, one hundred thousand a month, one hundred thousand a month, so high. One hundred thousand is so high, yes, grandma likes you very much. Grandma likes you very much. If I have to let you be my personal secretary, I won't be happy. I won't be happy. One hundred thousand a month, ten a month. Thirty thousand, I am not happy. Thirty thousand, I am not happy, Mr. Lu, you believe me, you believe me, I will definitely do it for you, I will definitely do it for you. Up the mountain of swords, under the sea of fire, under the sea of knives, under the sea of fire. It will definitely make you feel great. It will definitely make you feel value for money. Come with me on a business trip tomorrow. Come with me on a business trip tomorrow. Let me see your performance. Let me see your performance. Good Mr. Lu. Good Mr. Lu An Yitian An Yi. Tian is really you, it's really you, you are you, I am your high school classmate Li Lu, I am your high school classmate Li Lu. I haven't seen you for six years. I haven't seen you for six years. I didn't expect you to change at all. I didn't expect you at all. She hasn't changed . She's still as beautiful as ever. The monitor is you. It's you. You also work at Lu Corporation. You also work at Lu Corporation . I'm still in the internship period. I'm still in the internship period. Let's add it first. Let's add a contact information first. This Saturday, this Saturday, our class party, our class party, you must come, you must come, for six years , you have not come, you have not come here. This time we are finally all together. This time we are finally all together. I have to go to work this Saturday . I have to go to work this Saturday. At the class reunion, you must not not come. You must come. I have to come. If you don't come, we won't have a banquet. If you don't come, we won't have a banquet. Mr. Lu, it's too cold. Take a sip to warm yourself up. It's too cold. Take a sip to warm yourself up. Mr. Lu, I'm not cold. I'm not cold for you. It's not cold, but I'm hot. You're not cold, but I'm hot. It's sweet. It's sweet. Saturday Hyatt Hotel pool party. Saturday Hyatt Hotel pool party. Come on time. Come on time. There are people you meet. There are people you meet. There are people I want to meet. Is there someone I want to see ? Who is it? Who is it ? Sweet. What is a class reunion? What is a class reunion? I want to go too. I want to go too. SNACK SNACK Kindergarten classmate SAVOR IT E SNACK Kindergarten classmate SAVO RITE SNACK After growing up, after growing up Get together again Get together again That's when I grow up That's when I grow up and become a big beauty Become a big beauty The person I like The person I like becomes a handsome guy Become a handsome guy SNACK SNACK Going on a date SAVOR IT E SNACK Going on a date SAVO RITE SNACK Mommy went on a date Mommy went on a date What should I do with my handsome uncle? What should I do with my handsome uncle? There is no one Mommy likes at the class reunion. There is no one Mommy likes. Oh, oh, oh , that's good, that's good. Sweet, remember to get the swimming ring. Sweet, remember. Take the swimming ring, let us take a look at the sweet swimsuit. Let us take a look at the sweet swimsuit. If you wear too little, if you wear too little, you will meet the big bad wolf. You will meet the big bad wolf. SAVO SN starts to control mommy at a young age. SAVO SN I started to take care of my mommy at a young age. Don't worry. Don't worry. Mommy will take good care of herself. Mommy will take care of her own swimsuit. The swimsuit is also the oldest style and the oldest style. It's about the same. It's about the same. A SNA Mr. Lu A SNA Mr. Lu, today is the weekend. Today is the weekend. An Yitian. An Yitian. Don't forget . Don't forget SAVC. You still owe me 80,000 SNACI SAVC. You still owe me 80,000 SNACI SAVC. Come to my house at noon. SNAC SAVC. Noon. Come to my house. SNAC helps me cook. Help me cook and pay off my debt. SA V SNA. I 'm sorry. SAV SNA. I'm sorry. SA V SNA. I have a class reunion today . Learn, didn't you never go to school? Didn't you never go to school? SAV SNAC You never went to school SAV SNAC You never went to school Your whole family never went to school Your whole family never went to school SAVU SNAC Mr. Lu SAVU SNAC Mr. Lu, I never went to college. I never went to college. SAVU SAVU High school reunion. High school reunion should be normal. It should be normal. Location. SAVL. This is my private matter. SNAC SAVL. This is my private matter. SNAC SAVL. SNAC Me. Can you not say it? SAVL SNAC Can I not say it? Okay, okay, that's just right. That's just right. Your classmates will have fun. Have fun. Mr. Lu's classmates' reunion address. The address of the class reunion is at the Hyatt Hotel. At the Hyatt Hotel, no. Is it right next to my house? Isn't it just next to my house? Isn't it just next to my house? Have fun. Have fun. Bad men. Bad men will only threaten me. They will only threaten me. It's too much. It's too much. I must work hard. I must work hard. Work hard and one day SAVOR IT A. One day SAVOR IT A. Fire this bad man. Fire this bad man. Baby, baby , you are at home, you are at home. Auntie Enoch will come and take care of you. Yours will come to take care of you . Mommy, don't worry. Mommy, don't worry. An Yitian is here. An Yitian is here. Long time no see . Long time no see. The people in our class this year are all here. This year we are all here. An Yitian, An Yitian, do you remember me? Do you still remember me, college girl? College girl, you are getting more and more handsome, you are really getting more and more handsome, Jiang Jin, the person you want to see, Jiang Jin , I will bring you the person you want to see. Here I am, but I brought it to you. You have to keep your word. You have to keep your promise. Give me a few more orders. Give me a few more orders. No problem, no problem. Jiang Jin is the president of the Jiang Group. Jiang Jin is the Jiang Group. The president of the group must order tens of millions for each order. Monitor, what you do as a matchmaker is really worth it. Monitor, what you do as a matchmaker is really worth it. Old classmates, old classmates. It's been a long time. No see, long time no see. I will pay for everyone's consumption tonight. I will pay for everyone's consumption tonight. I will pay for it. My little concubine, your Chanel clothes, your Chanel clothes, your bag, your bag belongs to the Italian designer Romandi. It's a masterpiece by Italian designer Romanti. It's a masterpiece. This is something that money can't buy. It's something that money can't buy. Is it? This is what my boyfriend bought for me. This is what my boyfriend bought. A friend bought it for me. I don't know the specific value either. Who is your boyfriend? Who is your boyfriend? He is so heroic and so heroic. The concubine's boyfriend is amazing. The concubine's boyfriend is amazing . But the Shanghai family is the most powerful person in the Shanghai family. The most powerful person is the president of the Lu Group. Is it the president of the Lu Group? Lu Beichen. Lu Beichen. What will An Yifei want in the future? How much more will An Yifei want in the future? Take care of us, take care of us, little things, little things, one after another. As long as I give it to Beichen, just blow the pillow breeze to Beichen. Just blow the pillow breeze to Beichen. It 's disgusting to hear her brag. I'll go back to the room to rest first. Let me help you get it. I 'll help you get it. Our room numbers are next to each other. Our room numbers are next to each other. I live in 1207, I live in 1207, you live in 1208, you live in 1208 No, no, no, it's not heavy. I can just take it. It's not heavy. I can take it. After putting down the bag, then after putting down the bag, eat first and then go to the swimming pool. Eat first and then go to the swimming pool. Let's go. Let's go. You haven't gone there yet. You still have to go. I haven't gone there. I'm waiting for you. I'm waiting for you. Let's go . Oh, oh, Mr. Jiang is wearing casual clothes. Mr. Jiang is very handsome in casual clothes. He is very handsome. This is a deliberate change of clothes. This is a deliberate change of clothes. Casual style. The style is the same as ours, Tiantian, and our Tiantian, wear couple clothes, wear couple clothes, An Yifei, An Yifei, don't talk nonsense, don't talk nonsense, Jiang Jin, Jiang Jin, they just said, they just said, An Yitian was raped by an old man. An old man was taken care of, taken care of , and for that old man, he also gave birth to Ren's child. He gave birth to Ren's child. You have to think clearly. You have to think clearly. Yes, Jiang Jin, yes, Jiang Jin, An Yitian, usually this An Yitian usually looks innocent and cute. This kind of woman, this kind of woman, is the best at pretending to be pitiful and deceiving men. She is best at pretending to be pitiful and deceiving men. Jiang Jin, Jiang Jin, beware of being scummed, be careful of being scummed, you guys. If anyone dares to say a bad word to An Yitian again, if any of you dares to say a bad word to An Yitian again , I will let him walk out. I will let him walk out. Oops, okay, okay, everyone, stop gossiping . We are classmates, they are all classmates, An Yitian, don't mind, An Yitian, don't mind, when women are together, they are not many women, they are not many sisters, sisters, I didn't say anything, I didn't say anything, you Don't glare at me. Don't glare at me. An Yifei. An Yifei. Do n't do too much. Don't do too much. Be careful and you will be punished. Be careful and you will be punished. You , please, please , everyone, please stop talking about this. Everyone, please stop talking about this. Let 's talk about something else. Let's talk about something else. We've all reached the age where we're talking about marriage. The age when we're talking about marriage. Are there any classmates in the class who are getting married? Are there any classmates in the class who are getting married? Are you married? Maybe I will get married first. Maybe I will get married first. The 27th of next month is the wedding of Beichen and I. The wedding of Beichen and I is on the 27th of next month. Everyone is coming. Congratulations, congratulations, congratulations to An Yifei. Congratulations to An Yifei. Congratulations, thank you, Concubine An Yifei, you are so well married. Concubine An Yifei, you are so well married . It is enviable and enviable. Why are the babies at Lu Beichen's house? How are the babies at Lu Beichen's house? Secretary, please see me before I invite you. With us. Secretary An, before I invite you, please meet us before I invite you. Secretary An, I invite your three babies. I invite your three babies to play at home. Please spend your free time with your classmates. Please come and visit us during your free time when you are meeting your classmates. Let's come and visit us. Okay, Mr. Lu. Okay, Mr. Lu, you can help me look after the three children. You can help me look after the three children. Choose me. Once it's over, choose me. As soon as the selection is completed, I will come to you immediately. I will come to you immediately after the selection . Space, space , An Yitian, An Yitian, and Lu Beichen. Isn't this person Lu Beichen not easy to get along with? If you are his secretary, you must be his secretary. It must be hard, yes, yes, he is not easy to get along with, he is not easy to get along with, he is like a tyrant, like a tyrant, true, false, true, false. Let's talk about it. Let's talk about it. Let's talk about it. Let's see if he is cold. Is he as cold as an iceberg ? Is he always scolding people? Is he always scolding people? Is he displeased with everyone ? Is he cold and cold like an iceberg ? Is he always scolding people and scolding people ? He doesn't seem to curse people very much. He doesn't seem to curse people very much. Yeah, right. He puts on that stinky face every day. He puts on that stinky face every day. He has a cold face every day. He has a cold face every day. It's like someone owes him hundreds of thousands. As if someone else owed him hundreds of thousands, even though he really owed him hundreds of thousands, even though he really owed him hundreds of thousands, he didn't care, he just wanted to vent, vent, vent, he was still stingy and stingy, he was still stingy and wanted to exploit him. I want to squeeze my salary and cut it in half. Just cut it in half. Capitalists are inhumane. Capitalists are inhumane. Cut it in half. Cut it in half. He is still not a human being. He is still not a human being. No, no, no, no . He also wants me to be on call 24 hours a day. He also wants me to be on call 24 hours a day. I have to report to him wherever I go. I have to report to him everywhere I go. He is a control freak. He is a control freak today. It's not cold. It's not cold today either. Why are you still catching a cold? Why are you still catching a cold? What's wrong with Xiaojiu? Uncle handsome, you're sneezing. Uncle handsome, are you sneezing ? Is someone saying bad things about you? Is someone saying something bad about you? Mommy said bad things . Mommy said that if you sneeze only once, if you sneeze only once, someone must be scolding you. Someone must be scolding you, right? Then who will scold me? Then who will? Scold me. Is it you? Is it you? No, you are not you . Who could it be? Who could it be ? I don't know. I don't know. You are so handsome and there are people. You are so handsome and there are people who are willing to scold you. I am willing to scold you. It 's too much. It's too much . Our Xiaojiu is the best behaved. Our Xiaojiu is the best behaved. Go and play with your two brothers. Go and play with your two brothers. Uncle, uncle, go and hurry you up. Mommy, go and urge your mommy. It's been so long. It's been so long. Why don't you come to us? Why don't you come to us? Secretary An, when are you coming? Secretary An, when are you coming? Jiuer cried twice. Jiu'er cried twice. I can't see you. I can't see you. She's scared. She's scared. I seem to have forgotten my phone. I seem to have forgotten my phone. Is there anything? Is there anything at work? Come to me at work. I don't have a mobile phone with me. I don't have a mobile phone with me. Is that okay ? I don't have a mobile phone with me either. Is it okay? Lu Beichen should be able to take good care of the three children. Lu Beichen should be able to take good care of the three children. Sister, your swimsuit is shabby and old. It's rusty and old. It's not what you picked it up in the trash can. It's what you picked it up in. But don't dirty the water in the pool. Don't dirty the water in the pool.) Dirty) Sure enough Cinlingji Sure enough Cinlingji has a dirty mind and a dirty mind. Everything is dirty. An Yifei An Yifei has a sweet figure. Hinlingfei looks good even if she wears a piece of rag. Hinlingfei looks good even if she wears a piece of rag. Don't let her go. Don't let her go. An Yitian. She thinks An Yitian thinks she has big breasts. She has big breasts. I'll get an E in two days. I'll get an E in two days. She thought she could be better than me. She thought she could be better than my little concubine . She has given birth to three children. She has given birth to three children. How come she still has such a good figure? Why does she still have such a good figure? What? Okay, okay, what's good? If you have the ability, she will show her belly. If you have the ability, she will expose her belly . Look, show it. It must be bursting. It must be bursting . It must be bursting. It must be bursting and ugly. That's why she doesn't dare to show it. That's why she doesn't dare to show it. Little concubine, little concubine, your mouth is really poisonous. Jiang Jin is blind. Jiang Jin is blind. He actually likes An Yitian. He actually likes An Yitian. This Jiang Jin has been surrounded by before. Looking at this, Jiang Jin used to chase An Yitian, An Yitian, and Xiaofei . Didn't you chase Jiang Jin before? Didn't you chase Jiang Jin before? But he didn't even look at you, but he couldn't. I don't even look at you. My fiance is Lu Beichen. My fiance is Lu Beichen. Jiang Jin is not even worthy of carrying his shoes. Jiang Jin is not even worthy of carrying his shoes. Jiang Jin. Jiang Jin. Haven't you always had a crush on my sister? Haven't you always had a crush on my sister? She is now she is now She is a mother of three children. She is a mother of three children. The biological father of the child is an old man. Either you discuss it with this old man or you discuss it with this old man and see if we can share it with An Yitian. Ah, share An Yitian, An Yifei, An Yifei, her mouth is so stinky, her mouth is so stinky, come down and wash it down, come down and wash it up, sweet, sweet, sweet, I like you, I like you , even if you really have three children, even if you really I have three children lin lin gei I don't mind lin linge i I don't mind Jiang Jin, are you crazy? Jiang Jin, are you crazy? You dare to push me. You dare to push me. linlingfei My fiance is Lu Beichen linlingfei My fiance is Lu Beichen. You and him ? Compared to you, compared to him, who are you? What kind of thing are you? You have a fiance, Lu Beichen, and you have a fiance, Lu Beichen. If he loves you so much, if he loves you so much, if he has the ability, let him come over. If he has the ability, let him come. He comes over, yes, yes, he keeps claiming to be Lu Beichen's fiancee. She is Lu Beichen's fiancee. I don't know if it's true or not. I don't know if it's true or false. Maybe he's lying to us. Maybe he's lying to us. I My name is Lu Beichen. My name is Lu Beichen. Lu Beichen definitely doesn't want to come over. Lu Beichen definitely doesn't want to come over. An Yitian has the ability. An Yitian has the ability to treat his three children. The biological father called over. The biological father called over. I'm calling now. I'm calling now. Let Lu Beichen come over. Let Lu Beichen come over. Who is the biological father of my child? Who is the biological father of my child? It's none of your business. It's none of your business. Jiang Jin. Did you see it? Jiang Jin You see, An Yitian has a guilty conscience. An Yitian has a guilty conscience. The biological father of her three children is a bad old man. He is a bad old man. That old man is half buried in the loess. She is so old that she is not worthy of you at all. She is not worthy of you at all. I heard about it back then. I heard about An Yitian back then . She got pregnant at the age of nineteen. She got pregnant at the age of nineteen, so I just heard about it. I can drop out of school, so I can only drop out of school. I gave birth to a child at such a young age. It's really shameless. It's really shameless. Shameless. Shameless. Sweet, sweet, sweet. Hin lingle i. I don't believe them. Hin lingle i. I don't believe it. Their you tell me the truth you tell me the truth I will help you I will help you Hinlingfei An Yifei this is what you asked for Hinlingfei An Yifei this is what you asked for Hinling fei right to me I gave birth to triplets , but my child's biological father was not a bad old man. He was not a bad old man. Lu Beichen. Lu Beichen is the biological father of my child. He is the biological father of my child. An Yitian, are you shameless? An Yitian, are you shameless? An Yifei, An Yifei, don't make me beat you, don't make me beat you, An Yitian, she lied, An Yitian, she lied, she actually said it with a face, she actually said with a face, that child is Lu Beichen's child It's Lu Beichen's. Why don't you hit her? Why don't you hit her? An Yitian. An Yitian. The children are crying. The children are crying. Do you want to go and see? Do you want to go and see why Lu Beichen is here? Why is Lu Beichen here? Why is Lu Beichen here? Why is Lu Beichen here? Why is Lu Beichen here? Lu Beichen only called An Yitian. Lu Beichen only called An Yitian, not An Yifei, not An Yifei. What is the relationship between the three of them? What's the relationship between the three of them? Children, An Yitian's three children, An Yitian's three children are really Lu Beichen's, they are really Lu Beichen's. Why did he come directly? How did he come directly? Did he hear it? Did he hear it? It's over, it's over, it's over. It's all nonsense. It's all nonsense. It's just to suppress An Yifei. It's just to suppress An Yifei. Beichen, are you here to pick me up? Beichen, are you here to pick me up? Jiu'er has been crying. Jiu'er has been crying . I'm looking for my mother. I'm looking for my child. What's the child? Why why why why? What is the relationship between An Yitian and Lu Beichen? What is the relationship between An Yitian and Lu Beichen? An Yitian really gave birth to Lu Beichen's child . Aren't you his fiancee, Lu Beichen's child? Aren't you his fiancee? The An family allows you to have two daughters to serve one husband. Two daughters to serve one husband. You guys are really settled in the An family. It's really messing up your An family. You're talking nonsense. You're talking nonsense. I am Lu Beichen. I am Lu Beichen 's real girlfriend. His real girlfriend An Yitian. She is An Yitian for Lu Beichen. She is the lousy secretary who carries Lu Beichen's shoes. If you don't believe it, you'll have a look next month. If you don't believe it, you'll have a look next month. Who is the person who married Lu Beichen ? Cry, Mommy, come and play with us. Mommy, come and play with us. Okay, you play first. You play first. I say nothing to your mother. I say nothing to your mother. Take care of him. Take care of him. Okay , okay, what are you doing? Mr. Lu, are you doing it? Is it because I regard you as the father of my child? I regard you as the father of my child. Just force me. Just force me. What are you wearing? What kind of swimsuit are you wearing? A swimsuit. Who can't tell it's a swimsuit? The clothes are all torn. I don't know who to show them to. I don't know who to show them to. It's torn , it's torn somewhere, it's torn somewhere, it's really torn on the waist, it's really torn, I'm still wearing this torn swimsuit, I'm still wearing this torn swimsuit, bragging in front of so many people, bragging in front of so many people, this is too embarrassing. Okay, this is too embarrassing. The children are all here. Let her wear it again when there is a chance. Let her wear it again. Let her wear it. Put it on. Okay , hey , be careful, Lu Beichen, Lu Beichen, Lu Beichen, please open the door quickly, Lu Beichen. Open the door quickly. I'm An Yifei. I'm An Yifei, Mr. Lu. I'd better take the kids back first. I'd better take the kids back first. No, no, no, no need to tell An Yifei. Tell An Yifei, I don't have time. I don't have time . Miss An, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Mr. Lu is busy. Mr. Lu is busy. I don't have time to see you now. I don't have time to see you now. That woman An Yitian, what exactly did that woman An Yitian use, what exactly did she do to play like this at Lu Beichen's house? Playing like this at Lu Beichen's house , it's like he's really the father of her child. It's like he's really the father of her child. I've seen it all. I've seen it all. An Yifei An Yifei An Yitian is in there, An Yitian is in there, you say you Talk about what Mr. Lu is busy with, what Mr. Lu is busy with, An Yifei, An Yifei, how do you make us believe in you, how do you make us believe in you, how do we feel, how do we feel, Lu Beichen and An Yitian, Lu Beichen and An Yitian is a family. A family is a family. You can't be a mistress. You can't be a mistress. You are talking nonsense. I am not your nonsense. I am not a mistress . What a mistress? An Yitian is Lu Beichen's An Yitian is Lu Beichen's. Secretary only Secretary today he brought a relative Today he brought a relative The child has been crying The child has been crying An Yitian is the one who came to see the child An Yitian is the one who came to see the child I am Lu Beichen's I am Lu Beichen's real girlfriend. How could he be willing to let me wipe the child's poop and urine? Wipe the child's poop and urine. It turns out that's how it is. I'll just say it. I'll say it. Mr. Lu is true. I feel sorry for you, Mr. Lu, I really feel sorry for you. How could she give it to her? How could she give birth to a child for Lu Beichen ? Is she worthy of An Yitian when Lu Beichen gives birth to a child? Is she worthy of An Yitian? The child she is carrying is the child of an old man. An old man's child is already sixty or seventy years old. Last time, my mother saw it with her own eyes. She saw the old man driving a luxury car. The old man drove a luxury car and came to pick her up. It was disgusting to come to pick her up. Anyone can sleep with me. It's disgusting. Anyone can sleep with me. Jiu'er, don't be afraid. Jiu'er, don't be afraid. These are beautiful fireworks. These are beautiful fireworks. Mr. Lu, I am not a child. I am not a child. I know, I know, I know you are not afraid. I know you are not afraid. If you light something and don't do something, I will look like I am not as good as a child. I will look like I am not as good as a kid. Brother, look good. Brother, look good. I have never seen such beautiful fireworks. I have never seen such beautiful fireworks. Such beautiful fireworks should be. Uncle Lu should be the one who arranged the fireworks. The fireworks were arranged by Uncle Lu . I want to chase Tiantian. I want to chase Tiantian. Let's go, babies. Let's go, babies. We're going to sleep. We're going to sleep. Let's go with mom. Let's go with mom. Good night, uncle, good night, uncle, good night, let's go, Deng Liang, Deng Liang, you said , love is more important, love is more important , family affection is more important, family affection is more important, Mr. Lu, Mr. Lu, I have never seen you, I have never seen you being so obsessed with a woman. Being so obsessed with a woman, even if Miss An Yitian has given birth to a child, even if Miss An Yitian has given birth to a child , you are so good to her child, and so good to her child, but the master's body, the master's body will collapse at any time. Love can be exchanged . Love can be exchanged. But the relatives you love most are the only ones you love the most. There are only a few. The master only likes the eldest daughter of the An family. The master only likes the eldest daughter of the An family. Come on, come on, come on . Erlaijiuer , thank you, uncle, thank you, uncle, you're welcome, you're welcome , and you and you, thank you, uncle, thank you, uncle, you're welcome, you're welcome, Mr. Lu, Mr. Lu, thank you, thank you, thank you for taking us to your house to play, taking us to your house to play, thank you, uncle, thank you, uncle. You're welcome, you're welcome . Secretary An, work hard from now on. Secretary An, work hard from now on. Just think of it as a thank you to me. Don't worry, Mr. Lu. Don't worry, Mr. Lu. I will definitely be there for you. I will definitely be there for you . Go through fire and water , then I go, then I go, bye, bye, bye, uncle, bye, uncle, feed Grandma Lu, feed Grandma Lu, sweet, sweet, sweet, we haven't seen each other for a long time. We haven't seen each other for a long time. Will you come to Neng's house for dinner today? Will you come to Neng's house today? Are you eating now? Are you eating now? Yes, take your three children. Take your three children to the Lu family's old house. Come to the Lu family's old house. Chen'er, his grandpa, has been very energetic these days. Chen'er, his grandpa has been very energetic these days. You 're in a much better spirit. Be more lively with your children. Be more lively with your children. Maybe the old man's body, maybe the old man's body, will be fine. Okay , Grandma Lu, Okay, Grandma Lu, babies, babies, put on your favorites. Put on your favorite clothes. Mommy will take you to the big villa to play. Mommy will take you to the big villa to play. Your Majesty, Your Majesty, Your Majesty, are we going to the prince's ball? Are we going to the prince's ball? Welcome, Miss An, children. Welcome, Miss An, children. Wow, sweet, wow, sweet, have we arrived at the castle? Have we arrived at the castle? So beautiful, so beautiful. This is Uncle Lu's house. This is Uncle Lu's house. Wait for us. What we want to meet later is his grandfather and grandmother. It turns out that Uncle Lu's home is like this. It turns out that Uncle Lu's home is like this. No wonder he is so good-looking. No wonder he is so good-looking. Uncle Lu Uncle Lu is the prince who lives in the castle. The prince who lives in the castle, you are Yuzi and Princess all day long. You are Yuzi and Princess Jiuer Jiuer all day long . You are a girl who loves fantasy. You are a fantasy girl. Girl, let's go , Grandma Lu, Grandma Lu, Madam, what's wrong with you, Madam, I'm okay, I'm okay, these two children are exactly the same as Chen'er when he was a child, exactly the same, what's going on, what's going on, it's a coincidence Is it a coincidence? Grandma Lu, Grandma Lu, beautiful grandma, so beautiful, grandma, so beautiful, grandma, hello, hello, you are so beautiful, grandma, you smell so good, beautiful grandma, you smell so good, this little mouth is so sweet, this little mouth is so sweet, Grandma likes it . Your grandma likes you. Grandma Lu. Grandma Lu. This is my little daughter. This is my little daughter. Her name is Jiu'er. Her name is Jiu'er . This is the boss Jiuhe. This is the boss Jiuhe. This is the second child, Jiujue. This is the Erjiujue. This is the second child, Jiu Jue . We were all born in September, so our names all have the character nine in them. They all have the character nine in their names. They all have the character nine in their names. They all have the character nine in their names. The name is very nice. The name is very nice. Come in. Please come in . Handsome old grandpa. Handsome old grandpa. Handsome old grandpa. Old man. Don't be excited. Old man, don't be excited . Take a deep breath. Ouch, ouch, old man, old man. You are so excited when you see a child. You are so excited when you see a child. In this way , if you see yourself, if you see your grandson's child, your grandson's child, you must not faint with joy. You must not faint with joy. Handsome grandpa, do you want some candy? Handsome grandpa, do you want some candy? You are so excited. No, it's not too exciting. You guys, hurry up and push the old man back to the room to rest. Push him back to the room to rest. What does grandpa want to say? What does grandpa want to say? Why can't you understand? Why can't you understand? My precious great-grandson, my Baby, great-grandson , great-granddaughter, great-granddaughter, I am your grandpa, I am your grandpa, I want to play with you, I want to play with you, you go over there to play first, you go over there to play first , ah , when Chen'er was young. Did Chen'er do anything stupid when he was young? Did Chen'er do anything stupid? No, no , I have to ask. I have to ask Grandma Lu. Is the old man okay? Grandma Lu, is the old man okay? Sit down first. You sit down first. I 'll go over and see. I'll go over and see. Feed grandma. Feed grandma. What 's the matter ? Do you want to work later? I'll call you back. I'll call you back later. Isn't it Sunday today? Isn't it Sunday today? Are you coming back for dinner? Are you coming back for dinner? Grandma, I'm very busy recently. Grandma, I'm very busy recently. I ca n't today. I 'm going back. I can't go back today. Then I'll tell Tiantian. If you don't come back, we'll eat by ourselves. We'll eat by ourselves . Wait, grandma, grandma, who did you just say? Who did you just say? I made an appointment with Tiantian today I made an appointment with Tiantian today Come to the house for dinner with her three babies. Come to the house for dinner. If you don't come back, then we'll eat first. Then we'll eat first. Now I'm done. Now I'm done. I'll go back right away. I'll go back right away . Although the old man likes the eldest daughter of the An family, I like the eldest daughter of the An family. But I prefer this girl Tiantian. Tiantian, this girl, these two children, these two children look really alike. They look really like Chen'er. When Chen'er was a child, it would be great if he was really Chen'er's child. It would be great if Chen'er's child is tiger, black and white, tiger and black and white. I don't know why. I don't know why. The old man keeps losing his temper. The old man keeps losing his temper. I can't persuade him. Move, no matter what, I can't persuade you . Let me go and have a look. Let me go and have a look. Grandpa Lu, Grandpa Lu, what's wrong with you, Grandpa Lu? Are you feeling uncomfortable somewhere? Are you feeling uncomfortable somewhere? Handsome old grandpa, handsome old grandpa. You eat candy, you eat candy , you will be happy after eating it, and you will be happy if you eat it. It's not good to lose your temper. It's not good to lose your temper. Isn't it very sweet? Isn't it very sweet? Sweet, I feel better in my heart. Sweet I feel better, Grandpa, let's not lose our temper, okay Grandpa, let's not lose our temper, okay Grandpa, the hair here is raised, Grandpa, the hair is sticking up, Grandpa, grandpa, when you were young, grandpa, you must have been very handsome when you were young. He's handsome. Grandpa's clothes need to be straightened. Grandpa's clothes need to be straightened to look better. My great-grandchildren, my great-grandchildren, great-granddaughters, are really cute. They are really cute. Mr. Lu is not angry anymore. I am laughing. Mr. Lu is not angry anymore. He is still laughing. Yes, yes. We have taken care of him for so long. We have taken care of him for so long . Is this the first time I have seen him? The first time I have seen Mr. Lu laugh. Mr. Lu is smiling. Grandpa Lu. Grandpa Lu , come and drink some water. Come on, drink some water. Do you feel better now? Don't you feel better now? Didn't you say that the old man is losing his temper? Is he losing his temper? No, no, it scared me to death. It scared me to death. Just now, the old man really Unhappy Just now, the old man was really unhappy. He kept smashing things. He kept smashing things. Now it seems better now. Now it seems better. The old man likes children. The old man likes children. Do you want to eat with us? Do you want to eat with us? I know. Why are you angry? I know why you are angry. It's because I don't let you go out to play. You're angry because I don't let you go out to play, right? You're angry, right? No one understands me. No one understands me. I don't understand anything. No one understands that sooner or later, you will make me angry. Sooner or later, you will make me angry. The old lady and the young master are back. The old lady and the young master are back. Uncle Lu, Uncle Lu, Jiuer, Jiuer , let Uncle Lu hug him. Let Uncle Lu hug Uncle Lu. You're back, Uncle Lu, you're back, open your mouth, open your mouth. Uncle Lu, your house is so big, it's like a castle. Uncle Lu, your house is so big, it's like a castle . If Jiu'er likes it, then if Jiu'er likes it, I'll live here in the future, okay? No matter how beautiful this place is, it's not my home. No matter how beautiful it is, it's not my home. I still like my home and Tiantian's home. What if Uncle Lu lives with Tiantian? Is it true that Tiantian lives together ? Is it true? Yeah, uncle, come on, uncle, come on, come on, grandpa, I'm coming to see you, I'm coming to see you, babies, babies, let's go out first and let grandpa rest. Let's go out first and let grandpa rest. Let's go, let's go . Grandpa, grandpa, you are in good condition today. I am in good condition today. I hope you can speak soon. I hope you can speak soon. You silly boy, you silly boy. My wife and children are all in front of you. My wife and children are all in front of you. Don't bring them back, don't marry them back, marry them back, let them have a legitimate name, let them have a legitimate name, that An Yitian, that An Yitian, is my secretary, is my secretary, those three babies, those three babies are all her children. It's her child. If you like it, if you like it, I can let her. I can let her bring the child to accompany you to relieve your boredom. Bring the child to accompany you to relieve your boredom. If you want me to give birth to one by myself, if you want me to give you one by myself, If I want to give you a baby, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, these days, my body is too weak, I'm busy with work, I'm too weak with work, I can't help, I can't help, I have to take a supplement, I have to take a supplement, in order not to be with An Yifei To give birth to a child, in order not to have a child with An Yifei, you really can say anything. You really can say anything. Secretary An, come with me. Secretary An, come with me. Mr. Lu, Mr. Lu, what do you do? What do you say? Mr. Lu, don't come over. Don't come over. You are a man with a fiancee. You are a man with a fiancee. If you come here again, I will call you. If you come here, I will call you grandma, grandma, grandma and grandpa. You will hear it, you will hear it. What do you think I am going to do? What am I going to do? Although it is good-looking , it is other people's men, but other people's men will never touch it. They will never touch it. Help me apply the medicine. Help me apply the medicine, why are you so red? Why are you so red? Are you allergic? Are you allergic? The water is like this. The water is like this. Then you still accompany us. You still play with us in the water. Playing in the water is not asking for trouble. Isn't this asking for trouble? You are not allowed to think wildly. You are not allowed to think wildly. Although my body is very good, although my body is very good, you are not allowed to covet my body. You are not allowed to covet me. I'm hungry for you, I'm hungry for you, I 'm not interested in men at all, I'm not interested in men at all, let go, let go, I 've given birth to three children, I've given birth to three children, and I still say I'm not interested in men, and I still say I'm interested in men. Not interested. Who do you say your ex-husband is? Who do you say your ex-husband is? What does it have to do with you? What does it have to do with you? Hello, Mr. Lu. Hey, what's the matter ? Mr. Lu. Next week, you and Ms. An will get married. The banquet hall where you and Miss An will get married. The banquet hall where you will get married. There are Western-style Chinese styles, Western-style Chinese styles , whatever. Don't ask me about little things like this. Don't ask me about little things like this. I already have a fiancee. I already have a fiancee. What are you teasing me for? What are you teasing me for? Bad man, bad man, Jiujue, Jiuhe . Where are Grandma Jiuhe and the others? Tiantian seems to have something to do. Tiantian seems to have something to do. Take the child home first. Take the child home first. Okay , okay , Chen'er, Chen'er, come here. Come here. Grandma. I have something to ask you, grandma. I have something to ask you. What's wrong with grandma? What's wrong with grandma? What's wrong with grandma? Chen'er, Chen'er, have you ever slept with a woman? Have you ever slept with a woman without taking any measures? If it's not a grandma, it's not a grandma. Just leave it alone. I see Jiu He and Jiu He. Jue, I see that Jiuhe and Jiujue looked very similar to you when you were young. You said if the three of them could be your children? They were your children. You were so stupid. What are you doing in a daze? They are your cubs. They are your cubs. The old man likes An Yifei so much. The old man likes An Yifei so much. He wants those three children. He wants those three children. He is really his own. The old man is afraid that he will be angry to death. The old man is afraid that he will be angry to death. No , no, no, no , no, grandma , you are thinking too much, you are thinking too much. Although these two children are also very good teachers, they are children, but Don't all children look the same? Don't all children look the same? Just be clear about your own affairs. Just be clear about your own affairs. But don't let a woman get pregnant. But don't let a woman get pregnant and not bear the consequences. I do n't bear the consequences. It's very hard for me to take care of my children. It's very hard for me to take care of my children . What 's wrong with grandpa ? Isn't it okay to marry An Yifei according to your heart? Isn't it okay to marry An Yifei according to your wish ? Isn't it okay to marry An Yifei? Come on, come on, call an ambulance. How about calling an ambulance ? The old man, the situation is not optimistic. The situation is not optimistic. The situation is not optimistic. The situation is not optimistic. The situation is not optimistic. you're fine, don't always be angry with grandpa. You're fine, don't always be angry with grandpa. Grandpa, really, grandpa can't be emotional anymore. I can't be emotional anymore. I'm sorry, grandpa, I'm sorry, grandpa. It's all my fault. It's all my fault. Recently. Is there anything that can make the old man happy recently ? Is there anything that can make the old man happy? Next week Beichen and An Yifei are going to get married. An Yifei is going to get married. This is the old man's concern. It's something that I care about very much. It's great, great. I hope the old man can rely on his strong will to wake up soon, wake up early, An Yitian, An Yitian, I 'm sorry , if Jiu'er likes it, then If Jiuer likes it, I will live here in the future . Is it true? Is it true? No matter how beautiful this place is, it is not my home. No matter how beautiful this place is, it is not my home. I still like my and Tiantian's home. I still like it. Like my and Tiantian's home . What if Uncle Lu? What if Uncle Lu lives with Tiantian? Lives with Tiantian? Uncle Lu. Uncle Lu is chasing mommy too slowly. Chasing mommy is too slow. Wait. When he becomes our dad, wait until he becomes our dad. Maybe I will have children. Maybe I will have children. XXY We have to assist XXY We have to assist. Maybe Uncle Lu, maybe Uncle Lu is our real father. The ground is our real daddy. Yes, yes, we can do a paternity test with Uncle Lu. Do a paternity test with Uncle Lu . What is a paternity test? What is a paternity test? Let's cut a handful. Let's cut a handful of Uncle Lu's. Hair, Uncle Lu's hair , so we can do a paternity test, do a paternity test, this is a gift from daddy to mommy, this is a token of love from daddy to mommy, a token of love, if Uncle Lu, if Uncle Lu is really Yes, our daddy is really our daddy. Then he must be able to recognize this ring. Then he must be able to recognize this ring. Wow, he is indeed a little clever ghost. He is indeed a little clever ghost. Jiuer Jiujue Jiuer Jiujue you go to Uncle Lu secretly. You go to Uncle Lu secretly . I will cover at home. I will cover at home. If something happens to Mommy, I will come back early. If something happens to Mommy, I will come back early. Uh-huh. Such a big diamond toy. Such a big diamond toy. Uncle Lu, Uncle Lu , Jiu Jue and I will come downstairs to your company right away. We will come downstairs to your company if we have something to do. We have something to do with you. Hello, I want to make an appointment to see Mr. Lu. Hello, I want to. Make an appointment to see Mr. Lu. Whose child is here to cause trouble? Whose child is here to cause trouble? I'm busy. I'm busy while I'm going. I can only wait for Uncle Lu. I can only wait for Uncle Lu to come downstairs to pick us up. Come downstairs to pick us up. This is it. You have prepared this. This is what you have prepared for the week. All the files for the week have been redone. All the redo. Why haven't you replied? Why haven't you replied? Uncle Lu is so busy today. Uncle Lu is so busy today. Oh, I'm so annoying, little kid. Little brat, why are you so annoying? Why are you so annoying? You're too much. You're too much. How can you still be polite? Why are you still polite ? Come on, apologize to my sister. Come on, apologize to my sister. I'm going to apologize to you. I'm going to apologize to you. I'm not. I am the popular person next to Mr. Lu. You two are an eyesore. You two are an eyesore. Go away. Go away. Bad woman. Bad woman. You are waiting to be fired by Mr. Lu. You are waiting to be fired by Mr. Lu. What did you say, little brat? What did you say, little brat? Don't think that I don't spank children. Don't think that I don't spank children. Be careful, I'll tear your mouth apart. Be careful, I'll tear your mouth apart. Bad woman, just wait and see. Bad woman, just wait and see. Enter Mr. Lu. Mr. Lu. This is what I did. This is what I did. This is a plan for a week. A plan for a week. Work certificate. A hard week. Work certificate. A hard week. Let's make it look like this. Let's make it look like this. Go to the finance department. Go find the finance certificate. I'm sorry, Mr. Lu. I'm sorry, Mr. Lu's work certificate. My work certificate, my certificate, I'll change it again. I'll change it again. Please don't fire me. Please don't fire me. You're so stupid that I can't be saved. You're so stupid that I can't be saved. No need to change it. No need to change it. Change it, come on, come on, come on, come on , bad woman, bad woman, you are waiting to be fired by Mr. Lu, you are waiting to be fired by Mr. Lu, who is that little brat? Who is that little brat? Why did he say that I will be expelled? Why did he say that I would be fired ? I would be fired. I would be fired. What did you say? Work permit for Mr. Lu. Work permit for Mr. Lu. Work permit for Mr. Lu. There are two children downstairs. Work permit. There are two children downstairs. Work permit. Arrogant and unreasonable. Disturbing company order. Work permit. Arrogant. Unreasonably disrupting the order of the company, my work certificate, my work certificate, I testified that my copywriting did not do a good job of testifying. My copywriting did not do a good job. The work certificate is that they have affected me. The work certificate is that they have affected my child. The child is Jiuer, Mr. Lu, Mr. Lu. Do you know those two? A child, prove it, you know those two children, prove it, they will all be my children from now on, they will all be my children from now on, you say them, you say they are unreasonable, unreasonable, unreasonable, prove those two children, those two children It's Mr. Lu's child. It's Mr. Lu's child. I'm sorry, Mr. Lu. I'm sorry, Mr. Lu. Give me another chance. Give me another chance. Why did you say that bad woman? Why did you say that bad woman? Will she be expelled? Will I be expelled? Are you bluffing her? Are you bluffing her? The bad woman's file. The bad woman's file fell to the ground. When it fell to the ground, I glanced at it casually. I glanced at it casually and gave it to Uncle Lu. Look, I'll give it to Uncle Lu. Look, I'll write a plan with my feet. I'll write a plan with my feet. It's better than what that woman wrote. It's better than what that woman wrote. Wow, second brother is awesome. Wow, second brother is awesome. Uncle Lu wants to come down. Uncle Lu is coming down. I can finally see Uncle Lu. I can finally see Uncle Lu. I want to do a paternity test with Uncle Lu. I want to do a paternity test with Uncle Lu . Everything is revealed. Everything is revealed. Bodhisattva Buddha. Bodhisattvas and Buddhas, bless Uncle Lu, bless Uncle Lu. He must be our daddy. He must be our daddy. I see Jiuhe and Jiujue. I see that Jiuhe and Jiujue look very similar to you when you were young. They look very similar to you when you were young. Do you think the three of them are your children? They are your children. I don't know. Jiu'er doesn't know why Jiu'er comes to me. What does Jiu'er come to me about? I hope she is willing to hope. She is willing to do a paternity test with me and I will do a paternity test. Hey , big brother , what did you say? Big brother, what did you say? Ah Ling#Lushiyu involves all walks of life. He is actually going to marry another woman right away. He is going to marry another woman. Uncle Lu is a big liar. Uncle Lu is a big liar. He also said he would be our daddy. He also said he would be ours. Daddy , as expected, a man's words cannot be trusted. As expected, a man's words cannot be trusted. Let's go back. Let's go back. We don't want him anymore. Yes, we don't want him anymore. Jiuer Jiuer. Hello, hello. The user you dialed is currently unavailable. Temporarily unavailable . Where have they gone? Where have they gone? I blocked him. I blocked him. I will never talk to him again. I will never talk to him again. Bad man. Bad man said he likes us. Tiantian said he likes us. Tiantian still marries another woman. He marries another woman. Beat you to death. Beat you to death. It doesn't matter. Jiuer Jiujue. It doesn't matter. Jiuer Jiujue. The three of us can also take good care of mommy. The three of us can also take good care of mommy. Okay , yeah, Daddy gave Mommy a ring. Daddy gave Mommy a ring. Why is it missing? Maybe it was dropped on the way home. Maybe it was dropped on the way home. I know where it fell. I know where it fell. Let 's return it. You have to go back to Lu Group to find us. You have to go back to Lu Group to find XXY. Babies XXY. Why are you all standing at the door? Why are you all standing at the door? Are you welcoming mommy back? Are you welcoming mommy back? Yes. Yes, Mommy, we miss you. Mommy, we miss you. It was Mr. Lu who sent Mommy back. It was Mr. Lu who sent Mommy back. He was parking the car. He was parking the car. Mr. Lu seemed to have something to do with you. Mr. Lu seemed to be looking for you. Something's wrong , Mommy, Mummy, Uncle Lu is so disappointing, Uncle Lu is so disappointing, can you stop him from coming to the house? Can you stop him from coming to the house? An Yitian, An Yitian, babies, babies, you, you , you, you, you, Don't you really like Uncle Lu? Don't you really like Uncle Lu? What's wrong with you? What's wrong with you? We originally wanted Uncle Lu. We originally wanted Uncle Lu to be our dad. But he was about to get married. I want to marry another woman. Another woman. I don't want to care about him anymore. I don't want to care about him anymore. We like Uncle Lu very much. We like Uncle Lu very much, but Uncle Lu disappoints us so much. But Uncle Lu disappoints us so much. Although babies, although babies usually don't mention a word, usually they don't mention a word. It turns out they think so. It turns out they want a dad so much. They want a dad . Jiuer Jiuer Jiuhe Jiuhe XXY Jiujue XXY Jiujue. Can you open the door for Uncle Lu? Can you open the door for Uncle Lu? Jiu'er, Jiu'er, Jiu'er, they're looking for me. Jiu'er, they're looking for me. What's going on? An Yitian, An Yitian, Mr. Lu, Mr. Lu, my last three children, my last three children. I'm not in a good mood. I'm not in a good mood. I'm going to take a week off. I'm going to take a week off. I 'm going to take them out to play. Take them out to play. I wish Mr. Lu a happy wedding in advance. I wish Mr. Lu a happy wedding in advance. It's not like this. It's not like this. An Yitian. An Yitian, listen. I explain, you listen to my explanation, Mr. Lu , Mr. Lu, how do you make decisions ? I lost the diamond ring that daddy gave you. I lost something. Isn't it just about getting married? Isn't it just about getting married? When you close your eyes and open them, it's over. It's over. Why do you say why? Why do you say why ? When I see An Yifei, I feel disgusted. When I see An Yifei, I feel disgusted. I don't want to spend more time with her. I don't want to spend more time with her. Tell me. Tell me. What does grandpa like about her? What does grandpa like about her? If you get married, can you divorce again? If you get married, can you divorce again. As long as you are sweet, as long as you are sweet, I will wait for you for three to five years. I will wait for you for three to five years. Sweet, so good, sweet, so good. Why should she wait for me? Why should she wait for me? What qualifications do I have? What qualifications do I have? Where are you going? Where are you going? Go back to the company. Go back to the company. Slow down. Slow down. Mommy found it. Mommy found it. Let's go. Why are you here? Why are you here ? It's none of your business. It's none of your business. Go get married. Go get married. I hate you. I hate you. I hate you XXY. I hate you XXY. I hate you. I hate you. Mr. Lu, Mr. Lu, I'm here to do it. I came here to handle my resignation. From now on, we will all live our own lives. We will all live our own lives, without interfering with each other. Sweet, sweet, sweet, mommy, mommy. From now on, you will put all the rings on your hands. Wear the rings on your hands so that you won't lose them, so you won't lose them. Mommy, mommy, daddy will definitely find us. Daddy will definitely find us. He will definitely do it. Mom, I really want to get married. Are you really going to marry into the Lu family? Why do I have this feeling ? I feel like I'm dreaming, you silly kid, you silly kid, I'm telling you, I'm telling you, yesterday our house had a lot of friends from the socialite circle come to our house. Many friends from the celebrity circle came, and each of them gave us a lot of good things. Everyone gave a lot of good things. R Although everyone said congratulations, congratulations, congratulations, in fact, in their hearts, they were jealous, very jealous, but they Jealousy and envy are blessings that they cannot get even if they are envious and envious, and they cannot get blessings. Yes, yes, my daughter is so amazing. My daughter is so amazing. Even Lu Beichen can take it down. Even Lu Beichen can take it down. Whatever it is, Mr. Lu, Mr. Lu, we are you. We are your costumer and makeup artist today. Today's costume. Makeup artist and makeup artist. Today is your wedding. Today is your wedding. Be quiet. Be quiet. Why is Mr. Lu not feeling well yet? Why is Mr. Lu not feeling well yet? Assistant Deng Te. Assistant Deng Te is still sleeping. Mr. Lu is still sleeping. It's already eleven o'clock. It's already eleven o'clock. The wedding started at twelve o'clock. The wedding started at twelve o'clock. We didn't dare to wake him up. We didn't dare to wake him up. We were afraid that he would get angry. We didn't dare to wake him up. Dante Help Deng, what are you doing? Secretary An, Secretary An, can you come to Mr. Lu's house? Can you come to Mr. Lu's house? I need you for something. I need you for something. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I've resigned. I've resigned. What, what, you've already You have resigned. Miss An, please help, please help. Only if you come, Mr. Lu will get up. Only if you come, Mr. Lu will get up. Only if you come, he will not curse. He will not curse. But if Miss An comes, if Miss An comes, Mr. Lu won't. Mr. Lu won't elope with Miss An. Let's elope with Miss An. I'm sorry, I can't help you. I can't help you. If something happens to Lu Beichen, if something happens to Lu Beichen. Let him come to me in person. Let him come to me in person. Mummy Mummy . Uncle Lu is getting married. Uncle Lu is getting married. Are you sad too? Are you sad too ? I thought I thought Mommy also liked Uncle Lu. Mummy also liked Uncle Lu. P RITE K I 'm going to marry An Yifei, and I will never be a mistress. I will never be a mistress. No, no mommy. Mummy doesn't like Lu Beichen at all. He doesn't like Lu Beichen at all . Mr. Lu walked to the hospital. He went to the hospital. Now he's half It's too late in an hour, it's too late in half an hour, the guests are already here, the guests are already here, you 're anxious, you're anxious, how about you go and get married ? Congratulations, concubine, you are about to become the just and legitimate Mrs. Lu, the just and legitimate Mrs. Lu. She is nothing but An Yitian. She is nothing but An Yitian, and she cooperates with you to fight for men. She also cooperates with you to fight for men. My little concubine, I really envy you. I really envy you. But the banquet is only half an hour away. The banquet is about to start in half an hour. It is about to start. I listen to the makeup artist over there. I listen to the makeup artist over there. Say, Mr. Lu is still sleeping. Mr. Lu is still sleeping. Doesn't he not want to get married? Doesn't he not want to get married? Nonsense. Lu Beichen loves me. List all the things I love. Don't believe me. Will you see it? Don't believe it. Later you will see him appear at the wedding. He will appear at the wedding. You will know. You will know. Wait and see. Wait and see. Grandpa, grandpa, is about to have a wedding. He is about to have a wedding. Why are you here? How are you here? This is it , grandpa, grandpa, I am getting married to An Yifei. I am getting married to An Yifei. Can you wake up early? Can you wake up early? Look how fast this heart is beating. Look how fast this heart is beating. Your grandpa is so happy. You Grandpa is so happy. Hurry up to the wedding venue. Hurry up to the wedding venue. Ouch, ouch, this heartbeat is too fast and it won't work. This heartbeat is too fast and it won't work. Something is going to happen. Something is going to happen. Grandpa, grandpa, don't be excited. Don't be excited. As long as you can be safe. As long as you are safe. I'm willing to do whatever I can to be safe. I'm willing to do whatever I do. Now I'll go back. Now I'll go back. If I don't wake up, if I don't wake up, I'll make you mad. I forget it. I'll make you mad. Forget it . Hey, old man, hey, old man, you're awake, you're awake, go to the wedding venue. At the wedding scene, are you willing to marry An Yifei as your wife? Are you willing to marry An Yifei as your wife? Are you willing to marry An Yifei as your wife? Rich or poor, rich or poor, disease or health, disease or health, success or failure, success or failure , you They will all love her without reservation. You will all love her without reservation until death. Until death. Until death. Great, great. I will be Lu Beichen's wife soon. I will be Lu Beichen's wife. Are you willing to marry An Yifei? Are you willing to marry An Yifei as your wife This is what you knitted for me with your own hands. This is what you knitted for me with your own hands. If you don't like it , The workmanship of my knitting is not good. I can buy you another one. I can buy you another one. I like you very much. I like you very much, Mr. Lu. Mr. Lu . Could it be because of you? Could it be because I regard you as the father of my child? I regard you as the father of my child. Just force me. Just force me. Hey, be careful. SANORITE NACK SANORITE NACK SAN ORITE NACK Beichen Beichen Please promise, please promise, I'm sorry, Beichen, where are you going? Beichen, where are you going? Today is our wedding. Today is our wedding. Lu Beichen. Lu Beichen. Our wedding. Our wedding was arranged by grandpa. But Beichen was arranged by grandpa. Grandpa Beichen, you're awake, Grandpa, you're awake. Lu Beichen, Grandpa Lu Beichen, are all here to attend. Grandpa are all here to attend our wedding. It's our wedding. You're not allowed to leave. You're not allowed to leave. Don't leave quickly. Don't leave quickly. Thank you, Grandpa. Thank you, Grandpa Beichen . Beichen Why did you let him go? Why did you let him go? Shut up. Please shut up. I said what I said. An Yifei, An Yifei, is the woman born in the mistress, is the woman born in the mistress. It's the mistress's woman, Lu Beichen, who admitted personally that he doesn't love her. Lu Beichen personally admitted that he doesn't love her. An Yifei used to pretend so much, and An Yifei pretended so much before. In the end, it was her face that made her stick to Lu Beichen's ass. Lu Beichen's ass Lu Beichen, come back to me Lu Beichen, come back to me Mommy, where are we going? Mommy, where are we going? Sweet, sweet, sweet, why are you here? Uncle Lu, Uncle Lu, is this an escape from marriage? Is this an escape from marriage? Sweet , sweet, sweet. I like you. I like you. Will you marry me? Will you marry me? Uncle Lu finally confessed. Uncle Lu finally confessed. Lu Beichen. Lu Beichen. Actually, I lied to you. In fact, I lied to you. The child's father, the child's father, is not dead. The nine children have also been trying to find their biological father. Their biological father, Mommy, Uncle Lu, is good to you. Mummy, Uncle Lu, is good to you. Change to Uncle Lu. Change. Uncle Lu, be our daddy, be our daddy, we raise our hands in approval, we raise our hands in approval , sweet, sweet, sweet. Is this ring yours? Is this ring yours? Yes, yes, this is six years ago, six years ago The biological father of the child gave it to me. The biological father of the child gave it to me. I finally found you. I finally found you. This ring was given to me by you. This ring was given to me by you. I have been looking for you for six years. I have been looking for you. After six years of living with you, I finally found you. I finally found you. Daddy and Mummy are Bing. Daddy and Mummy are Bing.