During the 13th Century BC, ancient Egypt was that had greatly weakened the empire. The most notable pharaoh during this period, former glory and re-established He maintained stability within and built immense monuments throughout Egypt. and countless achievements immortalized him The 18th dynasty's rule of Egypt came to an end as he left behind no heir to the throne. Chief Vizier, Paramesse, to succeed him as undying loyalty and because he had a stable line of succession for the empire. to Ramesses the First, which translates He ruled Egypt for less than succeeded by his son, Seti the First. to reclaim much of the northern lands that had He appointed his 14-year-old son, Ramesses, as with a grand household and a personal harem. army and brought him along on military campaigns. teenager, married his principal wife, Nefertari, referred to as "The one for whom the sun shines". Seti died and was succeeded by his son, By this time, Ramesses was about 24 years His first great achievement came when he defeated a band of sea pirates called originated from Anatolia, Ionia or Sardinia. vessels along the Mediterranean coast and Ramesses cleverly set a trap for the vessels in an area off the coast. which resulted in them being surrounded Ramesses managed to overwhelm and capture The surviving sea pirates were and forced to serve as personal bodyguards to Ramesses' most famous engagement occurred during against the king of the Hittites, Muwatalli the The pharaoh desired a victory at Kadesh as well as to recreate his father's triumphant The Battle of Kadesh became the largest involving an estimated 6,000 chariots. but he declared victory upon The pharaoh went as far as to claim that he had story on temple walls all throughout Egypt. my side. My warriors and chariots have their king, called for aid. But I find that fighting men and ten thousand chariots!" Equipped with my weapons of victory. I charged I was like Ra when he rises at dawn. My rays without sparing any. They sprawled before my Although the pharaoh's interpretation a considerable achievement the Battle of Kadesh in the form of In fact, it is the earliest as well as the only ancient treaty in which The Egyptian-Hittite treaty was successful powers for the next century, until the Ramesses went on to successfully suppress and ordered the events immortalized is depicted courageously charging into combat on The number of temple buildings that a pharaoh the empire's prosperity at the time, and by is by far the most notable in Egyptian history. inspired 19th century Egyptologists Ramesses was determined to immortalize usurping the statues of his predecessors Worried that future pharaohs would do the same be carved much deeper into stone than them less susceptible to future change, but Another method Ramesses used to ensure that was to build on a grander scale The pharaoh had six temples constructed in two carved into a cliffside at Abu Simbel. and is devoted to Ramesses the Second himself. completed during the pharaoh's It is considered to be the most the temples that he built during his reign. sit in front of the temple, each wearing An earthquake in 27 BC sheared the head which remain fragmented in The second temple at Abu Simbel and is dedicated both to his great royal wife, The temple's entrance lies between and two of Nefertari dressed as Hathor. Egyptian history in which the statue of a Ramesses built another colossal statue at The Temple of Ptah, near Memphis, but it It was successfully restored using iron bars located near the Grand Egyptian Museum in Giza. called the Ramesseum, which was devoted to The complex was constructed in Upper floods over the past three millennia due Ramesses went on to build a new capital in Pi-Ramesses, which means "House of Ramesses". of the Nile River and it quickly grew to become inhabited by over 300,000 people. after Ramesses' reign, until its abandonment in which left the city without a water source. her death with a large, lavishly decorated The wall-paintings within Nefertari's tomb are of art in all of ancient Egyptian history. exclusive group of pharaohs who This occasion was celebrated with which was then repeated every two to three years. pharaoh's vigor and strength while as to commemorate their accomplishments. festivals throughout his life, which eclipsed Ramesses had over 200 wives and over Towards the end of his life, Ramesses dental decay, and arthritis. he died in 1213 BC at the age of 90 and He was succeeded by his then 70-year-old son, he had outlived all 12 of his older brothers. is currently on display at the National Through countless architectural Ramesses the Great cemented his legacy Consider liking, commenting, bell icon below for more videos like this. to visit the History Explained merchandise of new videos.