If it hadn't been for Ford's CEO, Lee Iacocca pushing to build the Fiesta, It was big gamble to create a new front wheel their other cars, and with Fords selling like why take the risk? But take it highest selling Ford vehicle of all time. and why did it all end with the seven (music) Even before Fiat rocked the automotive world Ford was looking at creating something smaller straight from the top - CEO Henry Ford II. So, work, producing some interesting designs. Ford's the project, but they had their hands full with so Detroit took the lead. With the launch and what Ford was great at doing in the 1970s Ford's development team suspected front wheel They built two similar cars, one using and the other using a chopped down rear wheel Ghia to produce something based on the Fiat 127. quickly became clear front wheel drive was best. were rear wheel drive which meant a lot of money turn their Kent engine 90deg. So, if they were Renault with the new Renault 5, they would need well. Even if the car was a runaway success, it and might take sales away from their they could become irrelevant by the 1980s. If to amortise the front wheel drive technology There hadn't been a single design that interested asked them to produce a follow up. The result, the middle of 1973, Ford of Europe's Capri &amp; Granada design work. Would they Well, of course they would! The team took on the project with relish. to see which of their Wolves would win out. were victorious. As it was so close, and as to take elements from the British design. The UK design team would produce a smart interior that Some progress had been made by Detroit on the and this was handed off to the European As new competition appeared, Ford took note and was conceived as a 2-door saloon or a three-door but ultimately rejected, as was the idea of a a hatchback for its all-round practicality. Ghia had provided the genesis of the project, the to do with them - it was just one of the interior They cleverly reused parts, such as the door pulls The car would be called "Fiesta" which is &quot;Party&quot; in they heard Ford would be building the Fiesta Spain had good, inexpensive workers, and to nothing. Market studies showed the Fiesta and Germany were tooled up for the expected efficient cars after the oil crisis, it made perfect sense to sell the new Fiesta US Government rules dictated the average fuel to hit certain targets. (music) The Ford Fiesta launched in 1976, first in Europe, Like the larger Escort it came with a 950cc and although with a 1.1L engine it wasn't particularly seem to do anything better than the competition, package it worked well, and with Ford's marketing Everything Ford touched in the 1970s turned to no exception. They needed it to sell big and it did - within 14 months they'd sold The Fiesta also performed well when it launched standards, ironically Ford fitted the Fiesta which made it quite a peppy car. Ford even tried show car. But with the Fiesta selling well, Ford only wanted to sell just enough to help get it's no surprise that they only sold around the the German produced cars were getting more so the Fiesta was replaced by the larger, Ford was excited about its new supermini platform, Fiesta design, they charged them with pushing concept was shown at the 1976 Turin Motor Show. but they made perfect sense for the folding gull It was easier for those in the front and the back parking spaces, and had a futuristic style. The Ford also tried the Fiesta Tuareg off-roading the doors for luggage the following year, and the In 1977 the European Fiesta light van appeared rear windows. The passenger car would get but passed up the 1.6L from the American Fiesta. to come up with a sporty Fiesta. The result was was displayed at car shows, and may have aftermarket upgrades for the Fiesta, delivering pre-packaged sporty Fiesta, something to take but it proved to be far too expensive. The XR3 it was transposed into the Fiesta in 1981 as the Strong sales in Europe meant the Fiesta wheel gamble had paid off, and helped reduce the that was also selling like hot cakes. "The small car share of the market has more than doubled over the last 10 1982. The cars are small, the stakes are big." But in 1982 the Fiesta was outsold in the UK by the new Austin Metro, and the supermini category generation Fiesta was coming in 1983! "Second sat on the same chassis, with a new slightly cars like the new Fiat Uno. The new front end Escort would look like three years later. Inside The new lean burn CVH engines provided a little unrefined diesel. The updated engines meant it the Escort. This was something Ford commonly running gear in one generation followed by It allowed Ford to always have something new the handling remained the same - Ford did some Superminis were selling well, but with lots of meant little money for development, so Ford had Like Volkswagen with their sporty Polos, Ford outperform the more expensive Escort XR3. So, the would have to do without. It's a problem Peugeot rings around the XR2. But with Ford's stranglehold cheaper "S" sold well, and at double the profit They designed a constant velocity gearbox Fiesta in 1987. It proved to be noisy, which insulation it used on its diesel models. continued to offer it into the 2000s. But back designed in the early 1970s was really looking only a three door were starting to affect sales. The development of the third generation car and all the money was poured into the new sure it produced a car that could beat the not outside, and it must, definitely have 5 doors. attempt at making a family car look like a coupe. so the second Libra concept went for something a Polo went to hatchback extremes to pack in as much clearly had influences from the just released Fiat too safe. It didn't look like something that could They could shoot for something like the new appeared and the designers were torn. Which was at a time when management were second design department after the aerodynamic and bombed. Not a good time for indecision. new Fiesta should be something prettier than the and 5 door models. Detroit was asked to submit a ones from Ford of Europe were given a fashion public in early 1985 to help decide. The winner generation Fiesta, but the design team would especially around the rear with the Fiesta's sold well but Ford didn't take that for Once the base car was completed, Ford moved Interior work carried on in parallel with design, the body was ready to be mated to the new Fiesta platform. Then the decision came to had to make something a little wilder than the The engineering team had to work out how to fit (music) The new Fiesta broke cover at the end of The wheelbase had grown 16cm (6"), but the design tricks. Inside it was all new, with central locking and ABS. The new XR2 got fuel but no more acceleration with the car The RS Turbo turned the Fiesta into a The refined, better handling, more fuel-efficient that designed the acclaimed mk3 Escort then the was soon Britain's best-selling car, and by sold. The Fiesta van continued to be sold, Ghia produced a couple of concepts to see if Ford purposes. The Bebop was a mini pickup pitched as around city driving and shopping. It got a single passengers. Features such as a fridge in the boot built-in garage opener and parking aids would An update in 1993 focused on structural engine, and the new RS1800 replaced the outgoing across the UK, maybe why the updated Fiesta got level sports model, so it was perhaps inevitable it didn't exactly set the pulse racing. But it The priority for the fourth generation Fiesta was engine bay, and improving crash protection which To this end, all cars got a driver's airbag a major update - the essential As far as styling updates, Ford initially tried soon coalesced around flat headlights and an oval Mondeo. This would bring some corporate identity would have the same swoopy oval design that also be built around the third generation Fiesta with ovals in the 1990s, even the North American The luxury model that Ghia lent its name to had car, but the 4th generation Fiesta Ghia got CD changer and a healthy dose of leather and engines were about as fuel efficient as the get up and go. But with hot hatches being a offer was a 1.4L fuel injected 16V engine which Speed junkies would have to look elsewhere, the 153hp (114 kW) 1.7L beast in the Ford Puma. premiums. The Fiesta was reliable and as always new car continued to sell well. It topped the there until toppled by the new Ford Focus in 1999. Fiesta would be rebadged and sold as the Mazda Ford's South African factory produced the a light pickup - the third generation Ford the Fiesta Bebop concept from 1990. And the sold in some markets as the "Fiesta Classic" The Fiesta was also sold across South America. first time as the Fiesta Sedan. In this form it Ford Ikon in India, South Africa, Mexico and Ford's new corporate identity was the and the 1999 facelift gave the Fiesta as much limited budget. It remained true to its oval side airbags to keep up with the competition. A When Ford produced its cars in the 1970s each but by the new millennium this was ancient as could be seen with the Puma, Ka, Bantam and Global B-car platform that was developed with Mazda2 and Verisa, along with the Ford Fusion over time, and the new Fiesta was no exception, slightly longer wheelbase combined with improved a much bigger car. The looks naturally continued "I see you baby!" (music) Ford of Australia clearly seemed to be confused between the new Fiesta and the new Renault Megane, Inside it was all new with smart doors and seats. to see, but the solid dark wall of plastic felt On the third generation car, the team had been door version. For the fifth generation two shapes five door, and a sportier look for the three as Ford released the 2.0L ST with a 7.9s 0-60 1990 RS Turbo on the dragstrip, but thanks to the when a bend appeared. The 182hp (136 kW) Fiesta for those willing to pay for it. In Australia the XR2 as you would think but the XR4. Ford hinted but it would remain just a concept. Customers Joy riding was a less serious problem, and being low, weren't at least eye-wateringly high. but it didn't sell as well as the previous UK by its main competitor, the Vauxhall Corsa. 2005 did better, at least proving more popular up both inside and out. Features from other Ford connectivity and rain sensing wipers. The Zetec 31 years after the first Fiesta appeared. the publicity photos, Ford was a little late The Ford Ikon got an update with the and the Fiesta hatchback would be reworked which was sold all over the world. since its introduction, to the point where three fifth generation Fiestas. For the sixth generation nimbler. No mean feat when customers demanded air all those natty gadgets to make their little car lighter, the weight of a fully grown human. be appeared as the Verve concept continuing Ford's new Kinetic design language for those international markets that demanded but were sceptical how much of this exciting (music) The final design might not be quite as exciting Fiesta went on sale in 2008 and was an instant and easily impressed you on the test drive. with all Fords it didn't give you much trouble. generation Ka, as well as the B-Max mini MPV that The interior was inspired by just as the world was ditching keypads for a headroom even on the 5 door hatchback, and the practical supermini on the market. But without The Ghia badge had lost its allure by this point, credit card advertisers want you to aspire to. climate control and cruise control. But the fast for now. Instead of a sports model, Ford offered claimed would emit only 98 grams of carbon dioxide The fifth generation car, like the third new Fiesta in India, again as the The Fiesta had exited the US market in 1981. Ford Ford Festiva in 1986 and the Aspire from 1993 to Focus. But with both unemployment and fuel prices bringing the Fiesta back once more. They showed 2008, and the reaction must have been good enough 2011 as a 4 door saloon &amp; 5 door hatchback, and Early problems with the automatic but they were quickly addressed. That same An update appeared in 2013 with a restyled nose grille that would be used across the Ford and Ford's troubled MyFord Touch system was reason why Ford's JD Power ratings had tanked! years earlier, and a new ST appeared with the 2013 mad hot hatch fun. The 1.6L 180hp (134 kW) engine 200hp (147 kw) which made it to 60 in 6.5 seconds get nearly 50mpg (5.9l/100km) if driven carefully, getting more and more power out of tiny amounts a new 1.0L EcoBoost engine, delivering 66 time than the first generation XR2, and vastly economical Fiesta. That honour fell to the 1.6L The Fiesta ST's combination of power circuit when the Fiesta won the World The second generation 2015 Figo was based on India and shipped across the globe. In 2018 Ford generation Fiesta wouldn't come to South America, Sales might have started well for the 2008 Fiesta, as popular as they once were. Could Ford (music) The new car was built on a new generation excellent handling. Although much of it was small styling update. Ford clearly thought it of the range was the new Vignale edition, Ford's was an Italian coachbuilder that Ford bought with trim level got heated seats &amp; steering wheel, Supermini customers were rushing to crossovers, Active which they said had crossover styling. regular Fiesta, probably due to larger alloy The interior felt premium, mostly. If you be found. But it continued to get more tech like the traffic signs and maintained the speed limit There was an EcoBoost engine with a mild hybrid poke, and different driving modes. With the it remained a great little hot hatch. class-leading supermini, and they succeeded, but Britain's best-selling car, but year on year the Fiesta in North America in 2018 as a booming But in other parts of the world, the Fiesta was an institution. Leaders dependable Fiesta to get you home from work. with another small change to the front end. For the next 48 years that never changed, be 2021 was the first year Ford didn't have the top it wasn't the Fiesta, ceding the top spot to the even number 2, or three, or four. The top selling wasn't even in the top 10! What happened? The a shift to taller cars, but with Ford losing more profitable cars such as the Kuga and Puma. that of a Dacia Sandero, selling Ford's venerable The Corsa might have won the supermini battle, but in 2018 they would stop making passenger switching to trucks, SUVs and crossovers. That was to chase profits or die. Customers preferred the giving a good ride, and being based on the same should have become for the seventh generation? remarkably popular, as Ford seemed to know just it's a car that has been a part of our a first generation Fiesta, and like millions in the early 1970s to push to make a little You can get much more about the Fiesta story books - link in the description. And if you want equally long video linked on the right! Thanks