For the next 7 days I'm going to be training like I even spent $300 to buy his online course. In this class, I'm going to show you my We're going to start off with an assessment that We have to make 5 three pointers at 5 different This will give us our initial accuracy and then on Day 7 Okay. I need a ball catcher. Come on! IN!! Triple threat, baby. That's me!! 4 out of 25. 16%. So when Steph Curry does Which is 96%. Hopefully, we'll get our So our first drill today is Steph Curry's favorite. It is practicing our ball handling. He goes up and then he bounces once. Okay, we're going to do 50 on each hand. Keep your eyes on the tennis ball and never look at the basketball. This is very hard to control. It messes with your head. That was the right hand. The easy hand. Oh, my left hand is weak. Steph Curry does it perfectly. He does This is increasing difficulty. Tossing the tennis ball off the wall to yourself. My back hurts, dude. I'm getting old, man. This is the last drill for today. We're practicing through the legs. This is the coolest move there is, dude. Imagine doing this crossover in that 1v1. Oh, you want this ball? You want this ball? Remember with these dribbles you always Incredible. Steph Curry would be so proud. That's day one done. I'm gonna be a little vulnerable with you. I'm not the best at basketball. Don't make fun of me please. But, we will see improvement. At the end of the 7 days we're going to play a All right, it's Day 2 and today we're practicing Steph Curry really stresses proper form. The lower body, hand positioning, aim So, four parts. 10 toes to the rim. Loading our hips, our back side with the ball We're aiming for the hooks at the front. We're trying to create a straight line from my finger here. All the way to the basket and we're trying You want to finish with your elbow above your eye. And then we release with a goose neck. If you do this follow through right in front of the basket, So if we put all that together, Steph Curry has the secrets. That was a win. That was a win. One trick that Steph Curry talks about when practicing is filming yourself and watching back the footage so you can see where you're exactly going wrong. Good thing we have two cameras rolling so we got a lot Yeah. I'm releasing here when I should be releasing up here. So now I'm trying to fix my release. Stop this man! That was a swish. Okay. This is a little unexpected but I What's your name? Sebastian. Sebastian. For a free throw contest. This 10 free throws. Whoever gets the most, wins. Whoever loses buys ice cream. How about that? Swish! All right. There's a little bit of Swish! 3 out of 5. 0 out of 5. Not bad. There's still time for a comeback. 4 out of 6. Steph Curry letting me down, bro. No, you're letting me down. Come on!! Here we go. Here we go. 2 out of 10. Still on 20%. There's no improvement. All right. Good game. I'll buy you ice cream. Like and subscribe Hafu Go. Good guy. Taste better when you've won. Wow. Talking trash. Day 3. We have one simple goal today. It is to recover from our embarrassing defeat from yesterday. We must improve our make percentage. So every time Steph curry starts his practice he does 100 Makes. Make about 5 Makes. Right here in front of the rim. Take a big step Then he moves around different angles That is what we are going to do right now. Today is all about getting See where we're going wrong. Get your 100 Makes. Build your Wow. You got the moves. What's good, dude. So this is my 1v1 opponent. Sadly, I couldn't get Jeremy Lin. But if we move a little bit to the left, we can see Who scored 1 point on Jeremy during the charity game. Let's see what you got. A little shooting drill. In the hoop, bro. We're not practicing shooting today. So today I was hoping you could help me with passing drills. Steph Curry calls this &quot;shooting off the catch&quot;. The ball should follow a straight line, Nice. Nice. Careful. You got to All right. That's good. Except! Except? Steph Curry only counts it as a Make if it swishes it. Wow! Out of three. He's very close to being I believe in you. That's too far, bro. You're not actually Steph Curry. You're not actually Steph Curry. dude. What do you think? First day. I'll say good start. Good start. Yeah? Might have some talent in there. That's pretty good. You think I could beat you? You're insulting me if you think you could beat me. Come back tomorrow with some defense and All right. As a basketball player we want to be versatile, Be able to read our defender. You got to protect the ball when you dribble Hafu. All right. All right. Try again. Alright, let's go. You have to attack my lead foot. His right foot is his lead foot. He's a Drop his right foot and create more space to get a shot off. Okay! Nice. Nice. I saw the lead on the left foot. Also, I can do a step back and Nice. You broke my ankle! One essential skill for my 1v1 that Steph Curry So I had to watch a YouTube video. It's a pretty simple shot but I think this will come in handy during my 1v1 against Sheldon. So basically you just drive up to the hoop and push it into a square behind the backboard. So today I practiced 50 free throws My accuracy has definitely improved over But the one thing is with three pointers it's much harder to be accurate because I'm trying to get power in. There's a couple mistakes that I'm making over The most crucial one is I'm not loading my hips properly and I know that because That means I don't have enough power. If I can't consistently So, I really need It's currently the morning. This is Day 7 Right now I'm going to do my three-point test and in an hour I have Based on my practice, I think I've been getting a So Day 1 we got 20%. Hopefully we can get 50% this time. Out of 25 for 5 shots. So each shot First shot, baby! That was a bad shot. The side angle is the hardest and we got 2 In! I need to make 3 shots here. That's not bad! That's 2 out of 5, buddy! The sides are always the hardest All right. 1 out of 5. 40%. That's not bad. Even though I didn't reach my goal of 50%, I still doubled my shooting accuracy from the three-point line within a week. But we're not done yet. So here's my strategy for winning this game. Hey! Don't listen! Don't listen! My ball handling is not as good as Sheldon's because he's been playing for But I am pretty confident in my shooting abilities. When I shoot within So my strategy is to get into the key and take two pointers. My strategy is that I'm just going to defend the hell out of Hafu. I don't think he can score if I'm guarding him well. So, yeah. That's my strategy. Playing very defensive. One. Two. Four. So obviously Sheldon's a lot The only fighting chance I So next time he misses a Can you chill, bro? I can't take a proper shot! Hafu. If I can keep you at zero points, you owe me bubble tea okay? It's either the naked mile or you owe me bubble tea. No. I'll do the naked mile. You're not going to do it, bro. You're going to score! No, you're right. You're right. You're going to score!! Man, believe in yourself. None of those are going to happen. But it's probably going to happen. Six. Eight. That's good. Better defense. All right. Got blocked, bro. No more naked mile, baby! Nine. That's 2 points right there, baby! Do it [___]. He insulted my manhood. 10. Game point. That's in! Good game, bro. Good game. You actually made a lot of progress, dude. I couldn't get the proper form. Yeah. Because you were blocking me the whole time. It's hard with defense. You can click here to watch me train like Chris Hemsworth for 7 days. Click here to watch me train the iron fist for 7 days. Subscribe if he hits it. Curry!!