MAX VOICEOVER: This is a normal Well, I say 'normal', it's normal I'm not racing. A Formula 1 driver dressed exactly like me is racing. See? He's even got the glasses. And my friends had no idea. And I'm doing it all just so I can have to stand on the top step of the podium, A once in a lifetime opportunity. But to do that, you need to be really good at driving, PASSENGER: Oh! I'm more of a fan of the slow lane, so, I had to utilise all of my F1 connections to see if I could convince a Formula 1 driver to come down to the track, and take my place. But with a history of pulling stunts on my friends, And would a Formula 1 driver even be able to catch up, To find out, I came to the world famous where countless champions of Formula 1 - including Jensen Button and Lewis Hamilton - learnt their trade. Right, this is how today's going to work. In an hour from now, five of my friends will arrive We'll be taking part in a Grand Prix, Each participant will do three qualifying laps, and I'm going to be pulling out The reason? I'm going to need to be at the back of the starting grid, because what they don't know, is that I'm going to be seconds before our 20-lap decider is due to start. All I have to do then, is sit back, relax, and watch as Max Fosh, Then on the final lap, all I need to do is a and finally experience the glory of the winner's podium. All I need, is an F1 driver. MAX: Here he is. MAX: Hello. Nice wheels! This is Jack Aitken, friend of the who made his Formula 1 debut racing for MAX V/O: And yet another pro Welcome to Buckmore Park. My old home, actually. This is where I started karting, like, 20 years ago. Oh, that makes everything so much easier. Where have you crashed? MAX V/O: Jack was the professional racing driver that and for that to work, we'd need to look identical. So I prepared a very special racing outfit... MAX: So we have, identical suits. MAX V/O: Complete with Fosh-branded motivational quotes. MAX: And glasses! JACK: How do I look? MAX: Going to be basically indistinguishable. JACK: I've never had a suit that says 'smell you later' on it, though. But you have had a suit that says 'buy tix to the tour'. MAX: It's weird, actually, that you had that on there! MAX: My sponsorship knows no bounds! But right now it's time to suit up. Let's get racing. MAX: Look at that! We are the same person. JACK: If I could just grow a couple of centimetres... With our matching race suits, helmets, and glasses, even the Buckmore staff that were in on the switch MAX: Which one's Jack, and which one's Max? [SILENCE, LAUGHTER] JACK: Correct answer. So all that was left to do was to hide Jack away MAX: You've got a chair. MAX: See you in a bit! And I spent my remaining minutes preparing on the track. You could argue that this isn't the nicest thing but you know what is a nice gift? Air Up, the revolutionary way to drink water. You see, I'm not the best gift giver. Over the years I've given my family and friends gifts such as: or, a favourite child contract. But this Christmas season, Air Up have got me covered. You see, with their bundle deals, for any long-suffering family members I think that just applies to me. So how does it work? Well, you fill up with water as I did at home, [INAUDIBLE] And I can enjoy the wild essence of... wild berry! And you can enjoy cola or any other flavour, Each bundle comes with a variety so whoever you're getting Air Up for Christmas, I'm getting an Air Up for my sister this holiday season So don't be a crappy gift giver and give Air Up a go. Thanks very much Air Up for sponsoring the video. Now it's time to beat my friends at go-karting. Hola! MAX V/O: My competitors for the day had arrived. MAX: Hello! George Clarkey, Arthur Hill, Ed Chapman, Arthur Television... MAX: Oh God, [INAUDIBLE] Senor Frog. MAX V/O: And last but certainly not least, member and founder of the YouTube go-karting team Senor Frogs. Buckmore Park regular, and the only potential adversary MAX: You come in like every weekend here, don't you? As for the rest of the boys, their ED: How do I know when I'm turning GEORGE: There's a wheel in front of you. To decide our placement on the starting grid And remember, if I wanted any chance of I would need to be starting, at the back of the grid. First up and qualifying, Ed Chapman. CHIP: How many spins is Ed going to do on his first lap? MAX: And away we go. ED: Jesus! I don't know how fast this thing goes, but I'm about to find out. CHIP: Is he pressing the accelerator? ARTHUR TV: He's got a great racing line. ARTHUR HILL: Yeah, well, he's got enough time to judge it. [LAUGHTER] ED: Woohoo! [ED GROANS] [THEY ALL SHOUT 'OHHH'] ED: [SINGING] I'm, spinning around... MAX V/O: Now Ed hadn't made the best of debuts, As Ed came into the pits, his fastest ED: Oh, shit! Next up: George Clarkey. GEORGE: This is going to be awful. We've just been laughing at Ed, GEORGE: Oh, baby! CHIP: George is one of those guys who's good at everything. GEORGE: I feel like I'm doing okay, but then I did say that when I lost my virginity. MAX: That's a great little line. CHIP: That's very true. GEORGE: What a day. Thanks Max Fosh. I don't feel like I did awful there. MAX V/O: George with the decisive lead over Ed, MAX: Well done, mate! VOICE: Arthur, Hill. MAX V/O: The boys did their best to tackle the track... But so far none of the laps were even As Arthur Hill was finishing ARTHUR: Come on! MAX V/O: And even Arthur TV had clocked in CHIP: Oh, that is- that is relatively fast. MAX V/O: We still hadn't seen a sub-one minute time. That is, until full kit wanker Senor Frog himself, MAX: Right, here we go. Oh, look at him! He's a green mean machine. GEORGE: Just the way he's sat, he looks like The Stig. MAX V/O: I was starting to worry. Oh no. MAX V/O: Even Jack was impressed with Chip's time. JACK: So Josh has already gone fastest on his first lap. Is he a bit of a pro or what? MAX: It's like he's milking a little cow. CHIP: I'm waving! MAX V/O: Chip's fastest lap came in at a rapid 56 seconds, MAX: [LAUGHING] He's 22 seconds quicker than Ed! ED: That's not- come on! MAX V/O: With Chip's time so much faster than the others, JACK: I thought it was going to be an easy day out, MAX V/O: But there wasn't much we could do about that now, So I've got a bit of a problem here. Ed has made things quite difficult for me to come last. So, I need to spin many times. MAX V/O: Time for one of the worst SPECTATORS: Oh! [LAUGHTER] MAX: Spun already. UNKNOWN: Somebody's in trouble. MAX V/O: And as well as spinning out, MAX: 5... 4... 3... 2... 1... Go! CHIP: Is he struggling out there? [SPECTATORS GROAN] CHIP: That's where I spun round. Make it look like I'm angry, Woohoo! CHIP: What is- Max is doing something MAX: Oh! [LAUGHTER] ED: This is slow here. ARTHUR TV: [LAUGHING] That seems quite bad! MAX V/O: I'd given it my best - or should I say, my worst - but somehow I'd still managed a faster lap time, than Ed. MAX V/O: Qualifying over, the leaderboard was set Josh and Arthur TV up front, with Ed and I taking up the rear. And one 20-lap race to determine the winner. And if no one notices that Jack and I had switched places, But this switcheroo is child's play compared to what I talk about that I'm currently on tour with, in the US of A. It's a comedy show where I talk about and I'm doing shows all across America, but there's limited seats still available, If you're a fan of the vids, so don't miss out and I'll see you there. But, how do I get Jack onto the track, and into my cart? Easy, you pretend you forgot your gloves. VOICE: Where's he going? ARTHUR TV: He's lost his gloves. MAX: Go. ED: What's going on? CHIP: Oh, he's back! He's back. ARTHUR HILL: Foshy, Foshy, Foshy... GEORGE: Let's get going then. MAX V/O: Switch complete... [BEEP, GO BEEP] And we were off. And Jack immediately gains two positions. Me on the other hand, needed a place to spectate for a while... ARTHUR TV: Fosh has overtaken me already! Without getting recognised. MAX: Hello guys. Who's winning? It does seem that my extreme sudden jump in skill level, Is that- I'm winning! Look at me, I'm doing such a good job! CHIP: Who is that in there? MAX: Shows all you really need is a Formula 1 driver By lap two, Jack had caught up with Chip But the job wasn't done yet. I wanted to make sure so that means I would need to But to keep first place, I needed as so I thought I'd give him some encouragement. Welcome to Buckmore Park Currently, Max Fosh is leading the pack. Quite a feat considering that Max did come last He's got someone else in his sight, MAX V/O: And the laps just kept on coming. So the gap between myself and Chip so I am going to need to put Jack had increased his lead to a 10-second gap... So I decided to get ready, Jack had a decent lead and but one mistake and the entire plan would be ruined, so this had to go perfectly. We'd done it. One more glory lap and sweet victory would be mine. MAX: [SINGING] Spinning around, feeling OK, And across the line. But would switching back be enough or was it all too unbelievable CHIP: There's no [POP]-ing way. Take your time, guys! CHIP: I was convinced it wasn't you at first. ARTHUR TV: You lapped me within about a minute! GEORGE: Did you go to Los Santos customs before that? [LAUGHTER] I'd made it to the first place podium CHIP: You deserve it. Partly because I cheated to get there, So I decided to let the cat out the bag. Now obviously, I've got a shock for you guys. That wasn't me driving! ARTHUR TV: I can't believe it! CHIP: But it looked just like you inside the- inside the thing. It actually looked just like you. MAX: Please welcome the person you were actually racing, It was all a ruse! You realised on the- CHIP: Uh, yeah, I had a feeling! [MAX LAUGHS] CHIP: I think that's yours, pal. JACK: Go on. JACK: Woo!