Toyota may be the biggest smaller rival and sometimes more buzz. Honda. A company that got its bicycles, became the biggest Today, it makes nearly every million motorcycles, supplied Formula One racing teams, and rocked the automotive world It was one of the most companies in the heyday of I remember the 80s and the 90s and it was really an exciting But today it confronts a one where tech is changing The engines that Honda built, else, are losing favor. As Honda, walking away from traits to benefit their brand out the answer to that one It's doing very badly in the transition to electric And it's hard to kind of that a Mazda isn't going to going to offer you, or a you. So now the company has a plan could be a hard slog for even Honda sells about 4 million the seventh largest automaker But what many may not know is other things for the fiscal The company sold 26.74 motorcycles, planes, boats, so on. The vast majority of with engines, and that, in really best at, perhaps even Some will say that Honda is a else, not really even a car and making just stellar But really, I think they're a Honda founder Soichiro Honda product by attaching an The other characteristic that passion for motorsports Specifically, about 12 years engines, Honda began building scale racetrack. It also entered the Isle of and dangerous motorcycle By 1961 it dominated the in two different classes. The motorcycle wins kept Honda was racing cars almost them, just one year after it it was already entering The year after that, it won Its engines have powered many including Ayrton Senna. Jenson Button and Max Soichiro Honda's idea was extreme competition of racing engineers. Honda engineers influential inventions. They came up with extracted more horsepower out need for turbochargers. When you look at the cars that 90s, they were so ahead of enjoyment. I mean, if you've valve timing engine, the VTEC nothing else. No other that in terms of that A few models have been The 80s and 90s were a kind sports cars, with Honda right The Honda S2000, a four became a collector's top trim level, was $39,000 in 2022. One was auctioned off with Even base S2000s have sold in their original MSRP. There were competitors that quieter, that were roomier. It was just this powertrain that you were okay for giving just made the car so I mean, they captured the Absolutely. I mean, there import scene that almost modifying their Civics and just no one else. You know, I mean, you look at sporty, never took off like Perhaps the most famous of was the Honda NSX, branded as A supercar, many would say, big names for a fraction of It essentially reset the bar that most people would have could, let alone would The Acura NSX. It's what happens when you competition. I always joked, I said you in the engineering rooms We got to go back to the over again. They had not been decades, and then all of a back and reevaluate what it sports car, because the NSX they'd made up until that The Acura NSX, which was child for really what Honda Absolutely amazing. No one else really could It was this engineering and prices and a reputation for Honda. Production peaked at As of 2023, the Honda CR-V in the US and the third Four of the world's 25 best In 2024, Honda was polled as brand. If you look at Car and Driver mainstream auto magazines, cars very highly, often equal. So I think engines are But it's not just that they have good handling. They they produce good cars I think in the American their most important market They're a company with particularly on the Honda reliability and good fuel Civic Pilot and of course 2023, as it was for many profits. Despite this, Honda So I would say Honda is really of decades, is kind of themselves. In 2017 Honda's CEO admitted At the time, it was burdened and a drastic drop in key J.D. Power's Initial Quality Management realized the hard to compete with bigger than focus on the R&amp;D that In 2024, some of Honda's new. China, once a cash cow become a much tougher market, But about a third of Honda's far in 2024, sales in the 30%. Sales are cratering in China. They've been forced to close Other troubles are similar to decade ago. Recalls, for example, vehicles over steering Perhaps its biggest challenge engineering mojo executives and finding ways to stand out field. When it comes to just the most vehicles, that's Toyota. Toyota owns that. Now when it comes to, we want they're responsible, but also whatnot, we've got Hyundai there. So I think it's been to really figure out who they What I think was Honda's characteristic for years, FTD, the &quot;fun to drive&quot; And now you drive the modern to back with the equivalent these things are about the thin advantage now. And so that's hurt Honda's consistent claim that I think Acura. I think it's a good But I think it's been a bit you're not quite luxury, but mass market either. I felt like Acura was supposed driver-oriented brand for personality driven, and I extent. But I think one of just wasn't enough In an era where all eyes are less good to be one of the something the world wants Now, the problem with Honda is transmissions that were so well, not many people are anymore. And when you look at high revving engines that Well, look what's going on in How much more efficiency can These are very marginal So you have to meet current to keep investing, but you advances in productivity or So that's a real burden for Honda. But if your biggest is a bit daunting. It seems kind of tragic for of the best engine builders best engineering companies on what is such a strong appealing identity for Honda. And I think maybe the the only choice they've got. In EVs, it's trailing rivals. It was an early innovator, In 2017, it came out with an Clarity sedan. But that model charge and was only available For comparison, the Tesla to 310 miles, depending on As of 2024, Honda sold six EV The first was rolled out in Toyota takes and arguably mainstreaming the hybrid Prius. But Honda was to introduce hybrids to North second biggest seller of them Hybrid sales have been The Toyota-Honda camp believed vehicles now and hydrogen whereas the Nissan and we were going to be able to electric vehicles that, as a rather ambiguous outcome. Honda wasn't really poised to electrification and really this back to the Amazing high revving transmissions, and it just because of how the market has But even if the world is rate of speed, sometimes when be the one who zags? Maybe what you do is you keep efficient engines and or that as an alternative to still think there are plenty to jump on the bandwagon, not ready for another 10 or 15 The company has relied on first high volume EV for the The Prologue wasn't released That product, along with a the Acura RDX, were built by platform. Then the two year and a half after to make a cheaper EV Since then, Honda has thrown to develop EVs, software and There is a broad deal with An alliance with Sony has tech heavy EV called the Sony is not the Sony of 25 Its brand is tarnished to Chinese brands now, so partner as they would have And again, they're moving too Nissan is not a strong weaker. So is this going to To be clear, Honda does have Its first of a new crop of it will produce in 2025. It also plans a line of Zero series. Production on the flagship The saloon is scheduled for The saloon does promise some battery pack and compact with other features, give the low center of gravity, which performance. And while still tech borrowed from Honda's F1 weight by about 100kg. On the manufacturing side, in electrification and $40 billion commitment in The company and its joint $11 billion to build up EV In Ohio. Honda is spending plant with partner LG Energy It's also forking over $700 Honda plants for battery pack and another 124 million is with a wind tunnel for reduction. There's a lot going on with I mean, if you were to look well, they started too late. And for a while that looked now is has slowed years ago. I don't think people quite are coming down. Charging speeds are improving That's going to be a huge The EV revolution is coming. It's not coming quite as fast coming. So it's not clear to that. Honda did not grant an this piece, but said that the balanced approach to and battery electric vehicles pursued from the start and race is a marathon, not a