Translator: Maggie Scartozzi (Music) (Applause) How many of you at this exact moment are thinking about your bills are thinking about the homework are thinking about what you look like How's my hair by the way? (Laughter) No. But seriously. At this exact moment you weren't thinking about or the stories, or the negative thoughts of fear that are happening, What happened when What did you feel? What senses were engaged? This particular instrument was created originally imported from outer space, I don't know how they got it here. (Laughter) But it's here, and the original name for it It's a particular company And this one is not the original Hang, There are builders all around the world. And the reason it's called Hang And hand being that it's made by hand, that it's tuned by hand, (Dinging) and it's played by hand. So what I wanted to share with you just like we all have a voice. And in that relationship we also have an instrument within us, And our ability to acknowledge and how we react to the thoughts that are happening and streaming it's constant. So I'm sitting here and thinking about my first time and it was while I was living And I was walking down the street and it just pulled me, you know, being towed all the way up I was drawn to this sound, this vibration. I sat there and, in awe, just watched, And I thought about how much What was drawing me into this sound? Did you feel connected to it? So the idea was that happened to me too. And as I had searched and seeked I have found one for sale. They're not an easy instrument to acquire So for me, the first time I figured, I have to play this I don't have time to practice. I don't have time to practice because if I sit there it could be weeks, months, years later So I bought it within the first week. As soon as I was able I took it into class. And you wouldn't believe the stories People are going to think I suck. Everyone's going to know. And the thing is, Because they haven't happened yet. But why do we seem to believe the stories Because they're not true, is that right? What if your favorite song came on, some are friends, just out and about maybe in public. Your favorite song, mind you. Don't be shy, your favorite song. The song comes on, and you normally scream this song But yet, you're just going like this, &quot;God, this is my favorite song, it's my jam.&quot; But then suddenly, you stop Don't do it. You're going And here's another example, Maybe you're sitting in a class, and you're asked a question. And there's a group of people, But yet, you don't raise your hand. Because maybe that question, maybe the answer Or maybe you actually know the question and you don't want other people to know, &quot;What gosh, the same person Either way, we're in a conundrum. We're stuck with a battle in the mind. So what I'm sharing with you is: this took you Where did it bring you? Here? Maybe here? Something that you've never How many people here have not seen Ok, that is everyone but the kids (Laughter) So, think of it like this. In my experience, if I were then to ask you: how many of you in the room stand up on the stage, of what you felt from this instrument How about you on the top Oh no, no, wait, wait. How about you with the black shoes, No. How about you here with the glasses? Wait a second. Did you just get nervous? I can't even see anything right now. (Laughter) So why did you feel like that? My words flowed over to you, you heard them, Pentium, whatever it is now. And now, you started to feel And in that, I started to control, a little bit manipulate, because you weren't here, you were here. Is that right? So, if that is true and this instrument I started to realize and shift my ideas And this is my idea. I believe passionately that we can shift the negative voices and stories that are going on How do you do that? Well, there's three main questions. The first question is: is it the truth? Is whatever I'm sharing with someone, that's giving you feedback You know a 100% that it's true. First question. Second question: is it necessary? Is what I'm saying to myself in my head, in what I'm doing And the third question is: does it improve upon the silence? This instrument is so powerful that it improved You could feel it, you could see it, and then once you see and feel, So here I am, and I'm thinking about the first time in creating my lifestyle. I, being very similar was educated and around a lot of very creative people which is just north of San Francisco, And growing up there, the people that I was around before I even knew it was possible. So I was thinking of and creating as most of you, around 15,16, And at that time, I didn't really know because I was really focused on sports. Yeah, other things, you know So, what ended up happening was I started creating where I could travel around the world, teach what I was learning, How was I going to do that? In the last 5 years, as I was traveling, every year I've been back to Thailand And the reason that I come back is to study, is to practice, is to learn about myself. I mean, it's rare go off to a monastery when all their friends So, there was something there And at that time, I created And Pranaforce is our company. And the whole idea Live your dreams, make it happen, just do it, right now, as if it was already happening. So I had to really shift my mind, and as I shared the story you know what, I was so excited that I thought everyone But what I found out was, it wasn't that. Some really close friends, some really close family, did not see or believe in So, this is what happened. They'd say, &quot;Wow this is a great idea, but here's a long list of things And I thought, Is that true? Is that necessary? Is that improving me help live my dreams?&quot; So what I started to realize, is that a lot of people I have no idea what your experience is But let me tell you this, if you share something that is not where I wish to be, relationship-wise, business-wise, doesn't matter what it is, I can agree with you, I can nod my head and say, But I don't have to believe you that can shift the whole chemistry in my mind. Because the thing is this, the subconscious mind don't know the difference It just knows it as energy. So the subconscious mind, if we're saying things to someone, That person's subconscious mind - mine - will say, &quot;Wait, I can't? Oh Gosh. But the conscious mind, educated, &quot;Wait no, I'm smarter than that, wait.&quot; I can stop that as long as I'm aware. How do we become more aware? We have to question the thoughts that we have within our mind. If you do not, it's fine. You'll be probably maybe even being of service But, if there is something that you love, a dream, live it! Van Gogh, an incredible artist from the Netherlands, Vincent van Gogh, said, &quot;If you have voices in your mind by all means paint, and that voice will be silenced.&quot; The idea is this, only we can conceptualize and understand So only we can really acknowledge it and start to notice So I'm sitting here, standing, sharing with all these other people the voices aren't just audible, these are voices within the mind. The mind, maybe the hearts, So we have to see it's not but it's how we speak it, and all these things that really make a difference. So, at this point now, as I've been sharing I've had more opportunity But the biggest thing that I've found If I'm not connecting with myself my mind will be off, my heart will be off And there's a lot of distractions So I want to share with you so you get another feel And as you go through I'd like to invite you to close your eyes. Now, what senses do we know that we have? A sense of sight, smell, taste, Take away the eyes. Give yourself just a moment. You can leave them cracked open if you're As you close your eyes here, and feel what you feel, with no wonder or interpretation If there's anything within that space just notice the thoughts, Like clouds in the sky, you cannot hook on It has to pass. (Playing the Hang) One of the most influential teachers in my life is from India, his name is Sai Baba. And the questions, the three questions, that I had asked you to ask yourself when those negative emotions and thoughts &quot;Is what we speak the truth? Is it necessary? Does it improve upon the silence?&quot; Namaste. (Applause)