(suspenseful electronic music) (clock ticking) (thunder rumbling) (clock ticking loudly) (recorder shuffling) (clock ticking dully) - [Nexpo] What do you do when you find yourself empty, yet terrifying? It's a phenomenon that's in the past couple years due to the nature of our ever-evolving world. Things are changing, closing, being forgotten. And in their wake are derelict spaces that evoke a nostalgic comfort, yet our brains seem to We feel like we've been there. We associate memories with images that we've never before we become stuck in this This sensation is caused by liminality, a term deriving from the word liminal, meaning something that's or on both sides of a something that is within transition. With widespread interest catalyzed by subreddits, forums, and social media, the Internet has served as a vehicle for sharing pictures of This has effectively paved of media and online storytelling resulting in a myriad of personal stories, creepypastas, and indie games to play on the uncanniness that comes with them. Contrary to this relatively recent rise in online popularity, though, liminal spaces are nothing new. In fact, the concept of liminality has always existed among us. We've just never really noticed it. (footsteps thumping) (air whooshing) (footsteps thumping) (footsteps crunching) (air whooshing) What is it about source Is it the feeling of that comes with the very Or is it perhaps the fact of other humans carrying out yet in our eyes, we're the only ones here? It's a funny feeling, that, a feeling of confused anticipation as we await people that will never come, contrary to the evidence furniture within a cozy Nobody ever will. Throughout the late video games were playing on the trope of liminal spaces without even knowing it. &quot;Garry's Mod&quot; and &quot;Silent Hill&quot; are two that come to mind immediately, and while &quot;GMOD&quot; was more &quot;Silent Hill&quot; was a bit more on the nose. Everything about it is of what makes liminal Isolation is always the forefront with the player being left to explore a town that is years past its time, hospitals, foggy streets, a theme park, a subway system, and even an apartment that Every single game is stuck in Nothing is bustling and alive anymore, but you sure as hell (air whooshing) (footsteps thumping) (mellow jazz music begins) &quot;No Players Online&quot; is that takes this notion Everything about it is liminal. We expect the game to be We have the overwhelming sentiment that the space we're at one time, the home to Yet, we're alone. No players are online but us. And I think this is where of a liminal space stems the expectation that someone as is life, yet there isn't. It's the foundational that's hardwired into our brains, and when this loneliness is portrayed through art and even photos of reality, that is where the uncanniness sets in. (mellow jazz music fades) (door clicks) You know, autophobia is something inexplicably and terrifyingly unique. And you never really know (low uneasy music begins) At school after hours. At a hotel pool when no one's around. The very last one in a shopping mall. There are so many cases and the beauty of the to share pictures and stories together. Whether it's through gaming or reality, liminal spaces and their of loneliness are terrifying, and regardless if we ever it's irrefutable that in the dark depths of the Internet. They're something of a lens into a world that nothing but a burning, fading, and ever-so-distant memory. (low uneasy music fades) (cheerful elegant music) (vocalist singing indistinctly) (rain pattering) It's late at night. You're cozied up in your room watching creepy YouTube videos. They are seemingly endless, but there is one channel that It's called FlorecitaDreams, and at first glance of their channel, we can notice the absurdity Their content is just as cryptic and heavily resembles various ARGs that we've encountered in videos past. (slow gentle music) (audio warbling) It's in Spanish, but that doesn't discount At the end of the day, though, why are we talking about this tonight? (computer pings) In the midst of scouring I was sent an email by It linked to this channel, and their explanation of &quot;After Spanish cartoons there used to be a PSA with their pictures and info on their last known whereabouts. One girl that showed up consistently was named Selene Delgado, and her only picture was eerie, and her features were very vague. The actual video's in Spanish, they suggest that she and was artificially made so people would better Interesting. The video in question was uploaded on September 2nd of this year and is titled &quot;Cinetica Let's have a look. (narrator speaking in Spanish) (discordant eerie music) All right, it seems bizarre, At the beginning of the video, Florecita seems to assert the hypothesis that the face of a woman quote, &quot;kinetically fits non-human, AI-generated faces They go forth to explain and how facial reconstructions in those that encounter them. Following this, they with the resulting images off Selene's face is shown mashed They display a few examples and ultimately argue that the identity of this Selene Delgado is, Now, this is a lot to unpack, but considering that it's something that we haven't looked into prior, I found it worth considering. So who is Selene Delgado, and how did she become wrapped up in this eerie shroud of urban legend? (thoughtful mysterious music) Throughout the 1990s, run on Channel 5 in Mexico or Channel 5 Community Service. As Joshua stated, it was a TV spot that ran between children's cartoons in hopes of spreading the word about various missing persons. The segments, contrary to later tonight, actually contain voiceovers giving various details and last locations of missing persons, and at first glance, these are mostly tame. When you really look into it, though, the eerie nature of these TV spots stems from when you consider how Channel 5 handled the case of just one person: Selene Delgado. Over the years, her face in nearly every Servicio utilizing this exact There were times where they give a bit of background info about her, like the fact that she and was just 18 years old. (newscaster speaking in Spanish) But what cemented her case into the minds of thousands of people came nearly 30 years later. - Time for lunch, munch, munch. Time for a munch, crunch, crunch. (distorted voice speaking indistinctly) (shrill menacing music) - [Nexpo] It goes without saying that the videos you're currently viewing are very obviously works of fiction. They were part of a on their official Twitter During this time, they were known to upload obscure, eerie only to delete them just hours later. It was an antic that to the Twitter trending and also drives home the point that this real-world TV channel is not above messing with you. In the midst of these posts, though, came one that involved a familiar name. This one. Posted after midnight on we can clearly make out the name Selene. Given that she was what many presumed to be an actual missing person that was constantly broadcasted on a kids' channel over the span of years, it gave birth to a new that the FlorecitaDreams the hypothesis that this The major argument stems Many have stated online that it appears common, basic, and fake. This, combined with the that has ever been to a breeding ground of and hoax videos to command (static buzzing) (tone blaring) Now, when I stumbled upon I, among many others, had initially assumed that Keeping in mind the that Channel 5 has played on its viewers, combined with the unconventional nature of these broadcasts being I didn't doubt that they'd to make her name stick with you. Ultimately, though, as is the case with many works of media online, this, too was a hoax. But that doesn't discount The way that Channel 5 has makes it seem like she's And unfortunately, given many have run with this notion. Regarding the real case of Selene Delgado, unfortunately, nothing She has, as far as anyone and her case has sat that way for decades. Personally, I think Selene Delgado, contrary to the rumors online, is indeed a real person. The argument presented just doesn't seem plausible. Her image is low-quality Her record likely did exist, The uncanniness of this image if this actually were fake, and it just doesn't to slip a random fake that would most likely never To me, Selene Delgado was a real person, a real person with a story that likely never received and a person that is in the realm of urban legend. But of course, that's just my conjecture. (tones beeping) (sirens blaring) (solemn ambient music) From the span of April a devastating superstorm would wreak havoc on much of the central United States. 27 tornadoes ranging from EF0 to EF4 would touch down within resulting in immense Missouri, Texas, Oklahoma, and Illinois. While most of them were by far the most destructive would impact a small Reaching wind speeds of this 41-minute storm surge as one of the worst natural disasters to impact the region in nearly 25 years. (residents shouting indistinctly) (car whooshing) (thunder rumbling) (car humming) - [GPS] In a half mile, turn right on... - [Nexpo] On the evening of April 9th, an 85-year-old man named Clarence Schultz had just wrapped up dinner He was in the other when she suddenly called &quot;Look out the window,&quot; she claims, and when he does, Clarence with a scene straight out of a nightmare. Immediately, he heads while she stays behind, he pulls out his cell phone What he was unaware of, though, was that while taking this footage, the tornado wasn't heading away, but rather straight towards them. (air whooshing) (vegetation rustling) (audio crackling) (glass shattering) (solemn ambient music) Clarence Schultz didn't But thankfully, he did Geraldine, however, wasn't quite so lucky. In the moments following the video, the storm destroyed the Schultz home, and Clarence resultingly found himself caught in a pile of rubble. &quot;All of a sudden it kind &quot;I asked myself, 'Are you dead?' No, you can't hurt when you're dead. And I hurt.&quot; Geraldine Schultz was one of that were caused by the The other? Their neighbor and longtime Klosa reportedly had a which her daughter claims is in her own basement. In total, over $19,000,000 and the aftermath footage that was left behind. Thankfully, a storm of this magnitude hasn't struck the area since then, and after a grueling, life in Fairdale is mostly For the residents of the scars from that night While the incident in Fairdale is just one of hundreds that have happened over the years, the resident stories and the paint a picture that is humbling. It takes you there, in a way, conveying the tragedy that Today, Fairdale stands strong. They are a community that banded together, and while a similar storm they remain vigilant in ever happens again. (static fizzling) - [Dispatch] 911, what are you reporting? - [Caller] Yeah, my house (tone ringing) (soft elusive music) - [Nexpo] On December a man named Christopher and their two-year-old daughter Charlotte were watching TV at home. The family had just moved so they were still getting settled in. All things considered, and nothing was out of the ordinary. At around 10:00 p.m., the three hear a loud noise It sounds like an William, and so Chris heads to investigate while Haley stays behind to call 911. It was at this point when an unknown man standing and immediately, he, too, The following audio takes place the moment the call center answered. - [Dispatch] 911, what is the - [Christopher] Yes, there is - [Dispatch] What is... Hold on. Stop for a second. - [Christopher] Why? - [Dispatch] I need you to - [Christopher] 6300 Proctor - [Dispatch] Is that a - [Christopher] House at Why are you in my house, bro? - [William] Tell her - [Christopher] She's Why are you in my house, though? - [Dispatch] Sir, how many - [Christopher] It's me, - [Dispatch] How old is your daughter? - [Christopher] She's two. - [Dispatch] Two? Okay. Do you have any idea who he is? - [Christopher] We do not... No. Let my wife upstairs, okay? (William and Haley speaking indistinctly) - [William] I'm not gonna harm you guys. All right? I promise. Shake my hand. My name's William Jones. You can go. I'm not gonna hurt you. - [Dispatch] Where is - [Christopher] He's standing - [Dispatch] Okay, are - [Christopher] We still - [Dispatch] Okay. William. - [William] Yes, ma'am. - [Dispatch] William. Okay. Can Christopher and his wife - No. - Ma'am? - They're safe. - They're safe. - [William] They're gonna - [Dispatch] What are - [William] I told you, - [Dispatch] Where were shots fired at? - [William] Over on Old 37th. (indistinct) - [Dispatch] What's that? - [William] Step in here with me, man. - [Christopher] No, I - [William] Dude, go - Bro- - William. William. - [Dispatch] What are you... No. What are you trying to have them do? - [William] He's coming in - [Dispatch] Why's he - [Christopher] Why are Don't lock that door, bro. I give you my word, man, you're straight. - [Christopher] I get what you're saying, but you got two guns, bro. - You're safe. (William speaks indistinctly) - William. William. - You're in my house, man. - [Dispatch] William, listen to me. - [Christopher] Why are you - [Dispatch] William, - [William] Yes, ma'am. - [Dispatch] I need you because I've got officers I have officers that wanna so I need you to put those guns down. - [William] Who are you, ma'am? - [Dispatch] I'm 911. I need you to put those guns down so that they can get you - [William] I want police - [Dispatch] The police The police are there. - No, they're not. - No, they're not. I've got a lot of deputies there. - [William] Look, man. Listen. I'm not harming you, I promise. My word. My life just got (beep) threatened, man. - I hear you, bro. - I hear you. - Okay, I get you, bro. Or your children, or your wife. (tone ringing) - [Joe] William. - [William] Yes. - [Joe] Hey, this is Joe from How are you, man? - [William] Slide your badge Don't come through that door. - [Joe] Okay. We're not gonna come but I just wanna talk to you - [William] Don't come through that door. Slide your badge (beep) - [Joe] Well, I'm not I'm outside the house, - [William] No, you're not. Stop playing games with me, man. - [Joe] What's got you (tone ringing) - Hello? - Hello? - No, Christopher's dead. (soft elusive music) - [Nexpo] Contrary to the man's claim, Chris wasn't dead the moment he said it. Minutes later, though, he would be. After hearing the gunfire, police forced their way into the home. During their advancement, and would sustain (William shouting) - [Joe] Hey. What's your name, man? - [William] Slide your - [Joe] Hey, this is Joe out here, okay? Man, we don't want anything bad to happen. We're not gonna hurt you. - [William] Listen! Listen to me, please! You're wrong! Slide your badge underneath the door! - [Joe] Say that again, man? - [Nexpo] Once they that Jones was hiding out lying on the floor, with Outside of it was Jones trying to flee. However, his efforts were in vain. William Jones ultimately and was accused of and wounding three officers. He was reportedly well-known as a thief and home just five days prior to the murder, he was released from jail after serving time for a previous offense. During his arraignment, his defense attorney claiming that Jones was running and ultimately sought I think the 911 audio speaks for itself. However, it'll ultimately be up to a jury in his eventual trial. Since the incident, to the couple's second child With this, their oldest by the loss of her dad that night, and their youngest will never know him. Christopher Neal died protecting his family and no matter if Jones is sentenced to life in prison with justice served, the Neal family will without a husband and without a father. (static buzzing) - Average of a missing - [Voice] Not a whole lot to go on, and that is why we need... - [Nexpo] Saturday evening, 1989. Central and North America are recovering from a recent Category 5 hurricane. United States President-elect is preparing to swear with just under a week to go, and on channel 5 up in Chicago, Illinois, an NBC-affiliated news is wrapping up its nightly programming. In relation to the other two, a news station broadcast doesn't seem all that And to be honest with you, it isn't. Rather, it's what transpired afterwards that's piqued my interest. It's extremely subtle, but after being discovered the footage you're about to watch has opened the door to a mystery that's perplexed a small but Have a look. - [Announcer] This is WMAQ-TV channel 5 NBC television in Chicago. We now leave the air and wish (bell ringing) (&quot;The Star-Spangled Banner&quot;) - [Nexpo] It's a rarity as a missing notice can fill and I think it's because This image is incredibly low quality, and there's effectively No height, weight, or age. No information about No family contacts, no no voiceover to fill you This just exists as a late-night shown at a time when most viewers likely directed their attention elsewhere. All we're left with is a poorly-lit photo of her face, and a now-defunct phone number to the youth division of the Something about the way this and considering the current I'm not alone in feeling this way. (recorder clicking) - [Announcer] You're - That is very difficult. (&quot;The Star-Spangled Banner&quot;) - [Nexpo] Two years later, in 1991, WMAQ would once again wrap In a strikingly similar Joanna's missing notice (static buzzing) (tone droning) Considering the of the notice this time, There was again no no updates that might've cropped still no age, height, weight, nothing. Just this obscure photo with the word MISSING Given how long it was combined with the implied lack of any progress in the search, it was beginning to seem that the chances of finding Joanna were And to date, not a single other update Joanna Lopez has presumably (rain pattering) (mouse clicking) In late 2020 and into 2021, Joanna's mysterious missing notice would finally be shared to Reddit. Two posts are known to have one by a u/Lukinspire and While Lukinspire's came first, as this one prompted the most discussion. Simply titled &quot;The Very of Joanna Lopez,&quot; their post outlines most of what we've They go forth to claim that they've looked through various missing persons resources, however have found absolutely Considering this is a subreddit devoted to discussing the unsolved, others quickly chimed in with theories on what they think might've happened. &quot;I think she was a runaway Maybe she ran away again in 1991 and they used the same picture. 1989 and 1991 are not that far apart and if she was in foster care I doubt they had Such a strange case.&quot; &quot;Wow, this one is strange. I found the number listed here as the youth division of the So on the face of it, the I don't have the guts to &quot;Sounds like she escaped some kind of juvenile detention or probation.&quot; &quot;If it weren't for the reappearance of the photo two years later, I'd be inclined to believe But then she was found and returned with her case never having a chance to escalate to federal involvement. The fact that it aired again in 1991, however, makes me think and in the pre-Internet days, her case simply slipped I hope I'm wrong.&quot; Throughout all of these, though, one comment stood out among the others. Posted by a u/proudeveningstar, &quot;Came across this post late last night and it creeped me out so much that I couldn't sleep for a while. It really is so sad to think that a person could slip and seemingly vanish altogether. I've been scouring the Doe Network for unidentified Jane Does in and around the and the only possible case I I really hope we can find closure on this. My heart breaks for her.&quot; Interesting. Heading to that link presents us with a Jane Doe, 276UFIL. She was found deceased in an alleyway, naked from the waist down. It goes without saying that our However, lining up this photo while considering the time and location in which she was found, postulating that this woman is Joanna isn't out of the realm of possibility. I've done some digging on from around the time period and have also come up short with results. There are quite a few However, their dates of with the two missing broadcasts. It seems to me that u/proudeveningstar has found the most plausible visual match out of nearly all the 1990s but even this leaves us At the end of the day, is one that is undoubtedly haunting. Barring how obscure the photo itself is, the lack of information, the visuals that and the fact that there or record about her ever existing aside from this brief this case is enveloped I implore you to join the and if you know or remember myself and countless others In the worst-case scenario, we won't get anywhere and But the best case, reaching that is what I'm aiming for. (soft cryptic music) The Internet harbors a that is perplexing, intriguing, a community thriving off sharing derelict areas around the world, an Internet urban legend of someone who has never been found, an unforeseen natural disaster that wreaked havoc on a community, a 911 call in the midst and a missing persons broadcast that never found a resolution. Thank you so much for tuning in to this special Halloween edition of &quot;Disturbing Things I hope you all enjoyed this, and if you have any eerie discoveries that you'd like to share feel free to fill out my new tip line or shoot me an email at Once again, thanks so much for watching. I'll see you in the next one. I love you all, and happy Halloween. (introspective music begins) (introspective music continues) (introspective music fades)