Hi everyone! This is Ilinca Vartic for PianoCareerAcademy.com, problem that sadly too many players struggle be located in your hand, wrist, forearm, elbow, We will go behind the curtain, identify the what to do instead, and how to recover from Before we get started, please don't forget so that you don't miss any new tutorials future. I'll begin with a simple fact that unfortunately playing does not cause pain and injuries! Never tolerate pain - because pain is your doing something wrong. At the first sign of discomfort, stop, take by using the information you are about to Of course, I'm not a doctor so in this video - and we will not look into problems that medical conditions. Always speak to your doctor when in doubt! There are 4 mega-causes of piano injuries. The first troublemaker is bad posture and Slouching when you play; tilting your neck your spine and the crown of your head is disrupted; too close to the instrument; 'gluing' in your wrist... These and other elements of a bad posture pain - Any locking, stiffness or exaggerated bending tension, fatigue, pain - and ultimately a To avoid injury, good posture is very important. The back is straight - one line from the crown like to say. Your bench is properly adjusted, so that the The feet are grounded, placed near the pedals Your shoulders are down and relaxed. The arms are loose, and there are no shar Your arms should feel like wings that are to your torso! This should feel good! There should be comfort, ease and freedom Also, make sure that the shoulders, elbows, There should be one line of energy from your more by watching my tutorial on this topic. At this point, however, there's something posture is not something you hold. It is not static, tensed or rigid. It's simply a neutral alignment where your ease. It's a starting point that allows full range It is flexible, fluid and breathing. So, a good posture is a process, not a pose. Metaphorically speaking, it's a movie, not layout of the piece you're playing. The second mega-cause of piano injuries is About 95% of piano beginners these days play and unhealthy movements. Incorrect technique is a plague that keeps It thrives because of misinformation, and pieces too soon, without taking the time to our physiology to the mechanics of this instrument. In this video we will take a look at 5 aspects and also sabotage your progress. These days, finger-only playing is the No. self-taught students. It means pressing the keys by using separate and keeping the wrist and arm disconnected process. Why is this harmful? The piano keyboard does not work like a computer Because of the hammer mechanism, the piano depressed. The piano keys also have depth - so there's The finger muscles are weak on their own. If you use separate finger movements to depress very soon. Wrist and arm tension, the usual companions even more. This type of technique is not efficient or Simply put, it is not adapted to the construction the bio-mechanics of the human body. Playing piano with your fingers alone can your toes, instead of moving your entire leg a small flick of your wrist, instead of taking The smaller the muscle you use for a certain higher the risk of injury. When you only use your fingers, playing the and it doesn't feel good. Your hand muscles and forearm tendons get fatigue degenerates into pain. If you ignore this pain and keep going, you is where problems such as tendinitis or Repetitive To avoid injury, play the piano by using the and weighted playing. You need to use the entire potential of your from your back and reaching the last finger All of them are important, but the force needed muscles of the back, and it is channeled through and the keys. So there's not need to strain and overwork In whole-arm action, gravity plays a big role, Piano playing is a whole-body activity - not If you use your body efficiently, your playing painless. Many method books nowadays are still based The beginner's hand is placed on this position away, by only lifting their fingers (I can't or involving the arm and wrist in the process. Separate finger action is not the only danger it properly) is a difficult articulation effect So don't get me wrong - finger movement fingers before we learn how to use the arm, you already know the consequences of that. To avoid injury, choose a method book that Russian School of Piano Playing, which we Non-legato is the safest way to learn whole-arm Simply put, first we learn to use the arm the joints loose and flexible. Only when this is internalized, we incorporate staccato, and then to legato. And even then, we begin by connecting 2 notes the fingers are doing. The arm and wrist movements are very important sound and a singing transition between notes. Then we connect 3 notes, and when we do reach are ready to do it safely. Playing with stiff wrists, immobile arms, no relaxation, will 100% result in fatigue To avoid injury, you have to understand the Of course, we cannot be completely relaxed If we were, we would fall off the bench! Some effort is needed, so our muscles do contract action correctly, we can keep this effort and also learn how to relax continuously. In other words, small efforts and ample relaxation cycle. This way, your muscles get refreshed as you fatigue does not have a chance to accumulate. ... and there are some other important things Playing the piano is about constant, fluid Also, our wrists have to be flexible and anticipate The wrists are bridges that connect the arm That's why wrist relaxation is crucial in It's also important to keep your hands constantly structures, as you can see, my hands keep bit of motion, I always take time to relax, these positions. If you want to learn more, I have a detailed Another thing is to find comfort even in the So whether you have fast runs, or a series the underlying pillars and the most ergonomic and practice those structures smartly, by method, instead of simply playing them through If you perceive piano playing as a finger your fingers each time you come across a wider Some people even do finger stretching exercises, it. To avoid injury, use whole-arm action and Remember: our fingers are not leaders in piano They are followers. If you have a wider structure, don't initiate and overstretch them. Initiate the movement with your arm. The arm and wrist lead the way, they are the needed position in advance, so that stretching A good example is Chopin's Etude in Ab Major, this, trying to cover these distances by stretching comfortable to reach everything by performing Keybedding is another form of incorrect technique. As you probably know, we cannot control the Once the key has reached the keybed, that's sound louder or change its quality. Still, some players like to keep pressing instead of holding them lightly, by only using If we hold a key correctly, this is an occasion Remember the cycle of effort and relaxation? Do you see how I'm completely loose, and If you are keybedding, on the other hand, so you are increasing your fatigue and risk So, to avoid injury, make sure that as soon muscular release - and you are only using to keep that key down. Before we wrap up the technique compartment Is a bit of hand and arm fatigue normal when To be on the safe side, I will say "no, Sure, if you're an advanced student and 3 hours in a row, you will most likely feel but without any centralized painful sensations. This fatigue will go away soon, and the next But if you're a beginner and you feel fatigue pieces are easy, it means that you're doing this fatigue, you should take a few steps your posture, technique and practice habits Speaking of practice habits - the 3rd mega-cause In this video we will analyze 7 main aspects skipping your warm-up, irregular practice, too much fast practice and learning pieces The rest of this tutorial, where I analyze of examples and detailed solutions, can be At the end of the video, I also reveal the some additional recovery tips. Don't forget that as a member of our program library of tutorials, which includes our Course our Sight-Reading Course, interactive projects for all levels focused on a wide range of Thank you so much for watching, please give don't hesitate to share your experience think, and I'll see you in the next one. Until then, practice well and stay healthy!