Imagine the room you're in right now was filled somewhere with this.) I don't know the size of an average-sized bedroom, that's roughly 70 tons apartment, and now we're up to 400 tons. Fill up 30 of those houses, that's roughly 25,000 tons Imagine it with me... gravel... chicken soup for the to move that material somewhere else several you put it in 25,000 one-ton pickup trucks? engines added together and the enormous volume of what I'm getting at here. That 25,000 tons is trains that carry raw materials across the I'm not trying to patronize you about imagine how much they can move. But takes. Compare those 625 semi trucks and the difference starts to become clear just by that mountain of material. We're in the middle and it turns out that a lot of the engineering with energy. When you're talking about thousands up to enormous differences in efficiency, so let's to minimize energy use by trains. And I even and this is Practical Engineering. In hypothetical railway to move apartments full By energy, I'm not just talking about fuel do you think there would be a 160-page report Train to Forward Motion"? I'll link it below for the energy required to pull a train affects add up as forces within the train, meaning they locomotives have to be placed. Resistances vary move. Of course they affect the size and number point to another and how much fuel they burn. And are built. Let me show you what I mean. Here's A to B. Put yourself in the engineer's seat you'll pick the straightest path, but did you If you've ever read about you're familiar with one of the most grade. A train moving up a hill has to which can be enormous. Grade is measured unit across a horizontal distance of a hundred need 20 pounds or 9 kilograms of tractive effort weight times every percent of grade. By the way, but the metric world uses them for weight so I'm close enough to US tons that we can just assume A wheelchair ramp is allowed to have a grade theoretical gravel train up a slope that 5 million pounds or 2 million kilograms, way That's why heavy trains have locomotives to divide up those in-train forces. But it's often less than half a percent. Next time watch the tracks as you travel. The road but the tracks will keep a much more consistent You might think, "So what?" We'll spend but get it back on the other side. Once the the engines and coast back down. And that's a train has to use its brakes on the way down So all that energy that went into getting the to kinetic energy on the way down, gets wasted over steep terrain are rarely the best choice for How about the winding path that avoids the the path is longer, and that's an important but those curves also matter. Straight sections because they connect tangentially between curved circular arcs. Outside the US, curves are measured curvature and the center of the track. Of course, more old-fashioned. We measure the degrees of curve is super gentle, appropriate for the highest limit starts coming down, with a practical 12 degrees. In an ideal world, you only have a windy path with speed restrictions, slowing and But those curves don't just affect the tractive effort required to pull a train around As you might have seen in the previous video of this series, This allows the inside and outside wheels to axle. But it's not a perfect system. Train and there's flange contact too. Listen closely hear the flanges of each wheel squealing as they extra pound (or half a kilogram) of resistance A 5-degree curve quadruples that resistance you're talking about a train that might weigh means several thousand more pounds pulling depending on the number of curves along the route, the winding path might be just as expensive as Sometimes terrain is just too extreme to conquer in the design of a railroad where the cost or a gorge is so great that it makes good sense or a tunnel! Many of the techniques pioneered for the massive road bridges that stir the hearts there's tunnels. You know how much I like allow trains to climb or descend on a gentle hours talking about bridges and tunnels, but so I'll try to stay on track here. infrastructure projects might change the math Of course, I've talked about grades, curves, a perfectly straight and level track without perfect world, a wheel is a frictionless device motion. But our world is far from perfect. I doubt sources of regular old rolling resistance. I put a crane scale on a sling and hooked it to This car just keeps showing up in demos on at a constant speed, I could measure the rolling keep rolling once I got it up to speed, but those I have to constantly pull to keep the car moving. scale jumps around quite a bit, but it averages it's about a percent of the car's weight. compare the resistance, and it took about twice 60 pounds (around 2% of the car's weight) is a little much for We tried it with a lighter car, but At slow speeds like in the demo, drag mostly cars and trucks. They're great at gripping the but they also squish and deform as they and that's energy that DOESN'T go into as heat. At faster speeds, a different fluid drag from the air. I didn't demo that for trains as it is for cars. Let's take a look One of the most commonly used methods for originally published in 1926 and modified in on railcars. It says there are three main types The first is mechanical resistance that only from friction in the bearings and deflections of but not infinitely so. As a steel wheel rolls other creating a contact patch, usually around the wheel and track in this contact patch higher than the pressure at the deepest places engineering about contact mechanics, but it's enough to say that, just like the this deformation of steel wheels on The second component of resistance in the Davis train goes, the more resistance it experiences. the trucks. As the train goes faster, the cars final term of the Davis formula is air resistance. the train as it travels through the air. This velocity squared. Double the speed, quadruple get the total resistance of the train, the force But why use an equation when you can just I took a little trip out to the Texas Transportation Museum practice. Take a look at these classic Pullman the bearings where lubrication would have This facility has a running diesel locomotive, and a caboose. This little train's main job but today it's going to help First [choo choo] we had to decouple the car Then we used the locomotive to move the flat car down the track. This car was built in 1937 and used on the Missouri Pacific railroad until it was acquired by the museum in but it weighs in the neighborhood of 20 my car). So I set up a small winch with car. The locomotive provides an ideal anchor the scale maxed out before the car started of a rail car is pretty high if you don't fully Who would've thought? Now that the wheels are allowed to turn, aren't perfectly level. Even without the car with around 100 pounds or 45 kilograms. the force starts jumping around just like or 68 kilograms. If I subtract the force from the force just required to keep it moving at 32 kilograms. That's about the same force required car is 15 times its weight. And it's not far off We tried this a few times, and the results were rail car on an old railway, so there's quite the results. Little imperfections in the wheels resistance is so low. A joint in the track keep the car moving, if only for a brief moment. a shopping cart: It seems insignificant, but Watching the forces involved, I couldn't help but was no safe way for me to start pulling the to try and overcome the static friction first... capabilities. If you look close, you can see the On a different part of the track with the wheels it, but considering most of the working out I do surprising. Those joints between rails don't only the topic of the next episode in this series, so remarkable that the rolling resistance between is in the same ballpark. And that's a big part of wheels on steel rails get the friction and drag move the same load as hundreds or trucks with I've never shipped anything by rail, and there's trains dominate in an important part of the to move long distances overland, it's often going analysis like that, and today's sponsor Henson more expensive than what you find at the grocery on how often you shave, it basically pays itself a video around this time last year. I said send I never switched back. In fact, I lost mine for a had to shoot the end of a Practical Construction Is a new razor going to change your life? Probably and using a precision tool makes it feel my day that I actually enjoy. I had never old technology. Totally not true - these are figured there would be a learning curve, but that I don't think I could ever go back to a cartridge rinsing out. If you've ever been on the market this is that, except, it's not really a splurge. could probably put a new one on for every shave code PRACTICALENGINEERING at checkout, you can both the razor and the blades are in your cart, right away. There's no subscription service or really like and I think you will too. Thank you