Transcriber: Linda Anderson So, I have a Facebook friend She lives in a gorgeous house. And she has a really rewarding career. And she and her family go on all these exciting adventures And I swear that they must take a professional photographer (Laughter) because no matter where they go the whole family just looks beautiful. And she's always posting and how grateful she is And I get the feeling for the sake of Facebook, How many of you have a friend And how many of you kind of don't like that person sometimes? (Laughter) We all do this, right? It's hard not to do. But that way of thinking And that's what I want to talk is what our bad habits cost us. Maybe you've scrolled through and you think, &quot;So what It's just five seconds of my time. How could it be hurting me?&quot; Well, researchers have found that envying your friends on Facebook, actually leads to depression. That's just one of the traps Have you ever complained about your boss? Or looked at your friends' &quot;Why do they have all the luck?&quot; You can't help thinking that way, right? That way of thinking seems In fact, it might even make you feel But that way of thinking is There's three kinds of destructive beliefs that make us less effective, and rob us of our mental strength. The first one is unhealthy We tend to feel sorry for ourselves. And while it's OK to be sad self-pity goes beyond that. It's when you start When you think things like, &quot;Why do these things &quot;I shouldn't have to deal with it.&quot; That way of thinking keeps you stuck, keeps you focused on the problem, keeps you from finding a solution. And even when you can't create a solution, you can always take steps to make But you can't do that when you're busy The second type of destructive is unhealthy beliefs about others. We think that other people can control us, and we give away our power. But as adults who live in a free country, there's very few things in life So when you say, &quot;I have to work late,&quot; you give away your power. Yeah, maybe there will be but it's still a choice. Or when you say, &quot;My you give away your power. Maybe she's not the nicest but it's up to you how you respond to her, because you're in control. The third type of unhealthy is unhealthy beliefs about the world. We tend to think that the world We think, &quot;If I put in enough hard work, then I deserve success.&quot; But expecting success like some sort of cosmic reward, will only lead to disappointment. But I know it's hard to give up It's hard to get rid of those that we've carried around But you can't afford not to give them up. Because sooner or later, you're where you need all the mental When I was 23 years old, I thought I had life all figured out. I graduated from grad school. I landed my first big job as a therapist. I got married. And I even bought a house. And I thought, &quot;I've got this incredible What could go wrong? That all changed for me one day when I got a phone call from my sister. She said that our mother and she'd been taken to the hospital. My husband Lincoln and I jumped We couldn't imagine what could be wrong. My mother was only 51. She didn't have any history When we got to the hospital, doctors explained she'd had And within 24 hours, my mother, who used to wake up in the morning passed away. That news was devastating to me. My mother and I had been very close. As a therapist, I knew on an intellectual But knowing it, and doing it, It took a long time before I felt And then on the three year anniversary some friends called, and invited Lincoln and me Coincidentally, it was being played at the same auditorium on the night before she'd passed away. I hadn't been back there since. I wasn't even sure I wanted to go back. But Lincoln and I talked about it, &quot;Maybe that would be a good way So we went to the game. And we actually had a really good On the drive home that night, we talked about how great it was to finally be able to go and remember my mother with a smile, rather than all those feelings of sadness. But shortly after we got home that night, A few minutes later, he collapsed. I had to call for an ambulance. His family met me at the emergency room. We waited for what seemed like forever, until finally a doctor came out. But rather than taking he took us back to a private room, and sat us down, and explained to us that Lincoln, who was the most adventurous was gone. We didn't know at the time, He was only 26. He didn't have any history So now I found myself a 26-year-old widow, and I didn't have my mom. I thought, &quot;How am I going And to describe that feels like an understatement. And it was during that time when you're really going good habits aren't enough. It only takes one or two small habits to really hold you back. I worked as hard as I could, not just to create good habits in my life, but to get rid of those small habits, no matter how small they might seem. Throughout it all, I held out hope that someday And eventually it did. A few years down the road, I met Steve. And we fell in love. And I got remarried. We sold the house that and we bought a new house, in a new area, and I got a new job. But almost as quickly over that fresh start that I had, we got the news that Steve's dad And I started to think, &quot;Why do these things always &quot;Why do I have to keep losing &quot;This isn't fair.&quot; But if I'd learned anything, it was that that way of thinking I knew I was going to need as much mental strength as I could muster, to get through one more loss. So I sat down and I wrote a list of all the things mentally And I read over that list. It was a reminder of all that I'd done at one time or another, And I kept reading And I really needed it. Because within a few weeks of writing it, Steve's dad passed away. My journey taught me that the secret was that you had to give up Mental strength is a lot If you wanted to be physically strong, you'd need to go to the gym But if you really wanted to see results, you'd also have to give up Mental strength is the same. If you want to be mentally strong, you need good habits But you also have to give up bad habits, like resenting somebody else's success. No matter how often that happens, it will hold you back. So, how do you train How do you give up those bad mental habits that you've carried around with you? It starts by countering those with healthier ones. For example, unhealthy mostly come about because we're Feeling sad, or hurt, or angry, or scared, those things are all uncomfortable. So we go to great lengths We try to escape it by doing things like hosting a pity party. And although that's it just prolongs the pain. The only way to get through the only way to deal with them, To let yourself feel sad, To gain confidence in your ability to deal with that discomfort. Unhealthy beliefs about others come about because we compare We think that they're Or we think that they can Or that we can control how they behave. Or we blame them for holding us back. But really, it's our own You have to accept and other people are separate from you. The only person you should is the person that you were yesterday. And unhealthy beliefs because deep down, We want to think that if we enough good things will happen to us. Or if we tough it out we'll get some sort of reward. But ultimately you have And that can be liberating. Yeah, it means you won't necessarily but it also means no matter you're not doomed to keep suffering. The world doesn't work that way. Your world is what you make it. But of course before you you have to believe I once worked with this man His doctor referred him to therapy because he had some bad mental habits that were starting to affect His mother had died from complications so he just believed he was doomed, and he'd given up trying to manage In fact, his blood sugar that it was starting to affect his vision. And he had his driver's And his world was shrinking. When he came into my office, it was clear he knew all the things He just didn't think But eventually, he agreed He said, &quot;I'll give up and I'll trade it in for Diet Pepsi.&quot; And he couldn't believe how quickly And even though he came every week to remind me how horrible he stuck with it. And once he started to see he said, &quot;Well, maybe I could He said, &quot;I could trade in for a snack with a little less sugar.&quot; And then one day he was at a thrift and he found this beat-up He bought it for a couple of bucks, and he brought it home, And he started to pedal while he'd watch some And not only did he lose weight, but one day, he noticed just a little bit more clearly And suddenly it occurred to him, maybe the damage done So he set a new goal for himself-- to get his driver's license back. And from that day forward, he was on fire. By the end of our time together, saying, &quot;OK, what are we Because he finally believed And that he had the mental And that he could give up And it all started So I invite you to consider what bad mental habits What unhealthy beliefs are keeping you from being And what is one small step Right here, right now. Thank you. (Applause)