(people chattering) - If you aren't out within 10 days, you and your family will be killed. Now in Montgomery, our Today we still confront and through the mail. (eerie music) - It's 1964 and a package to Martin Luther King Jr's The package contains reels of tape and on that tape there's Blackmail as well as this one page letter. The letter is written in the voice of one of King's supporters. It's riddled with typos and corrections and the letter tells King that he should, &quot;look into his heart,&quot; because he is, &quot;a complete fraud, a great liability to Black people.&quot; It refers to the tapes which is an audio super cut of evidence showing King sexual encounters with his The letter calls him a, moral imbecile, abnormal animal, a beast, what incredible evilness, The letter tells King that and that he has just one thing left to do and he knows what it is. He has 34 days in which to do it. This letter insinuating should end his own life was not sent by a disenchanted follower and it was not typical hate mail. This letter was sent by some in the United States, the (eerie music) - And of course I received You and your family will be killed. - [Reporter] Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Was shot and killed tonight (dramatic music) - More than half of Americans that a lone racist gunman of Martin Luther King on that day in Memphis in the late 1960s, That number is more like Those who don't believe that were standing next They include his family. An exhaustive congressional that King's murder was, but there's actually a who pulled the trigger. And thanks to recently of them that we've been going through, we can now shed a light what they were up to and what that teaches us about who really killed Before we move on, a quick Sponsors allow us to do these deep dives where we spend months and So thank you Incogni for We live in a world that is full and all kinds of predatory This world is made possible of data brokers that try to where you live, what you how old you are, and sell that information on an open market. Incogni is your way out of this system. You sign up for Incogni and to go out and request on your behalf that you be taken off There are hundreds and that our names are on and with Incogni you can start the process of getting yourself off these lists and then Incogni immediately of requests to take me off these lists and I can see on my dashboard how many requests they've sent out. It blew my mind, it's literally hundreds. And then they keep you that they're making to Sometimes they have to and work through the request. You don't have to worry about any of it. Incogni does this for you. I'm learning that I'm not just on like corporate email lists, but now I'm on like people and browsing history could be used to jack up my insurance premiums. Like this is malicious And luckily we have rights to like get our names off of the stuff. Incogni helps you do it. I do the monthly thing so that as my name continues to Incogni is out there scrubbing and trying to get me off the lists. If privacy is interesting to you, then you might be into this. There is a link in my description. It's incogni.com/johnnyharris. Click the link, it helps but it also gets you in for the yearly plan of Incogni. You'll get a big discount like 60% off when you sign up using the link. Thank you Incogni for for supporting our journalism. And with that, let's keep (typewriter typing) So in the late 1960s here in America, there was a secret war going One of them wielded the of the United States' Federal The other man belonged to and fought this war using the and a deep philosophical - My feeling is that the vast majority of Negroes in the United as a basic tactic for social change. Non-violent. The non-violence is really the That if every Negro in against nonviolence, I'm and say this is the wrong way. (crowd cheering) - In 1960s America, to be an incredibly powerful because it always resulted the inevitable crackdown by law enforcement and counter protestors. And when that was then covered and shown to the general who was right and who was - King felt from strategy in terms of changing the hearts and minds of America, and teenagers and adults be maimed for simply wanting to exercise their rights as citizens. These images were very powerful. - You've got to keep the - A visual spectacle that represented what Black Americans knew all too well was how they were treated but now it was just public. (soft music) King led 40,000 to for over a year resulting of public buses in Montgomery, Alabama. He went to the most to lead sit-ins in segregated restaurants and lunch counters. Protesters would peacefully They marched on City Hall and King would always get up with his powerful stirring words to remind these protestors about the importance of - We go back to the buses, to turn an enemy into a friend. Nonviolent protest against injustices and indignities experienced. - That the idea that you were or destroy your enemies where it wouldn't just be he thought was an illusion. Persistent illusion that we of the objections about militarism that is based on a fantasy. - King and many of these From jail, King wrote a letter about why he was leading these August 1963, letter from Birmingham Jail. &quot;We know through painful experience that freedom is never voluntarily It must be demanded by the oppressed. And that now was their for more than 340 years for their God-Given This is the only way to change what was the status quo in America where vicious mobs lynch your mothers and fathers, hate-filled and brutalize and even kill And after trying many different ways of addressing this, would build creative It would dramatize these issues so that they could no longer be ignored. This was his strategy for change and it was working. Lunch counters, restrooms were desegregated across Birmingham and as King predicted, the spectacle of peaceful protestors being spread across the country, to an unambiguous moral high ground that couldn't be put and violence by law enforcement. - Now I will continue to (crowd cheering) - But Martin Luther King entrenched system and when that, you create enemies. - Either you give the and his freedom are you face the fact of continual social - His enemies included those that you would imagine whose leaders allied with and who stated that killing MLK would eliminate all racial You also had pro segregation groups like the White Citizens Council who tried to convince the federal government that King's growing movement but it wasn't just these His enemies also included business owners, real estate developers, all of whom benefited from the status quo, discrimination in hiring Then of course there was and governors, most of them of them from the south, but among King's Enemies was that was powerful whose job and to enforce the laws of the country. - [Narrator] J. Edgar Hoover served as the agency's director for FBI building houses the Bureau's (dramatic music) (soft music) - So remember it's the There's an obsession with anyone who is sympathetic the Soviet Union, and the director of the FBI at the time He would be the director of So as king's movement grew, that the movement wasn't a and racial justice, but rather a communist plot to sow division in American society. So it's 1963, Martin Luther King and his followers are in Washington DC and Hoover tasks his head of domestic intelligence, to go out and investigate how much influence the Communist party has over this movement. And five days before Sullivan delivers this report. (tense music) The report concludes that even though the Soviet Union of money and time and issued lots of propaganda to try to infiltrate this movement, &quot;No known substantial implementation of communism within King's movement.&quot; The movement was about a real pressing issue. Communism had nothing to offer and nothing to do with it says this report that was delivered to Hoover five days before the march on Washington. But you can see right here, You can see right here at this is Hoover's handwriting It's kind of an angry moment. Communism's influence on as Sullivan's report had concluded. Sullivan says that Hoover was so mad about this that he stopped talking to Sullivan for months. Sullivan had to, &quot;Change our ways or we would all be out on what he wanted or risk the consequences.&quot; And what Hoover wanted was so that he would have - 99% of people, unfortunately, and say, &quot;You are a horrible I will quit this job rather They go and they do their job. They say, &quot;Oh yeah, you were right, boss.&quot; - And soon the FBI would give - [Narrator] They called it the and freedom, in the - Today, many of these of dollars in federal And they're the very people that he ought to lift himself - [Narrator] Determination shall have no rest until it is a society of free men whatever their color. (tense music) - Two days after the march on Washington, Sullivan begins his repentance process by delivering this memo August 30th, 1963. Sullivan, who again just that King had nothing has changed his tune Turns out that the substantial influence over and that in light of King's oh and by the way, the about is this one. - I have a dream. - King now stands head and shoulders over all other that we must mark him now as the most dangerous from the standpoint of communism, race, and national security. The plan would be according to Sullivan, to completely discredit him to, &quot;Take him off his pedestal.&quot; The thing is they were kind of stuck. They didn't have a great plan for putting down this movement. King had achieved the moral high ground, and so they needed to fight They could undermine him and his moral philosophy then just maybe, they could stop his movement so that the African American without a national leader to steer them in the proper direction. (soft music) So Hoover and his agents that Ty Martin Luther King to communism, and they get approval to spy on King. But what they don't tell that they're not actually There is no communism What they're looking for to take him off his pedestal. (tense music) Okay, what we are of every wiretap and bug that Side note, whenever I see these I just have to know like that they had to black it out. Like we're already looking and there was something even more secret that we just will never see, too bad. We're looking at wiretaps, to listen in on phone conversations at a variety of locations. There's his home in Georgia and then there's a couple There's a home in New York City, and then there's a bunch of microphones. Microphone or bug is just when the FBI trespasses into someone's space and puts a microphone that that happens in that space. So you see them doing this in Washington DC, hotels in California and Hawaii, hotels in New York City. So the main tactic here was to follow MLK as he traveled around and tap his hotel and telephone and spy on everything he said, Here in the middle of all of these memos, you have to the director saying, &quot;Obviously these are particularly We should be very cautious who may from time to time in some aspect of installation.&quot; Like we gotta really keep this under wraps because it is totally not In short, what they created was, &quot;The most complete Unsurprisingly, even they didn't find communism. There was no communism here. But what they did find is to, &quot;Take him off his pedestal.&quot; They found sex tapes. (tense music) (indistinct chattering) These FBI documents that were contain the summaries of that they heard on these tapes. We don't have the actual tapes yet, and they paint a picture of Dr. King as a womanizer with girlfriends and prostitutes in Las Vegas, These memos say that King and sleep with women while using, &quot;The vilest language imaginable, of alcohol, which served only of degeneracy and depravity, many of which committed I mean, it's a lot of of which don't shine a Running naked, drunk white prostitutes up and down the halls of - They saw his alleged infidelity as exactly the kind of to stigmatize the broader Black community, to undermine king's leadership, make him unable to do this job, and it diminished his standing - This surveillance, to be about communism to gather a whole swath where Hoover and Sullivan of his moral pedestal, that made King's movement But wait really quick, before we talk about how to and we struggled with this of different people how they interpret this, Okay, these documents, in would be rock solid. This is FBI intelligence declassified, and usually these analysts objective evidence that we can use. The problem here is that I know too much about how this intelligence was gathered and the motive for doing so. Future investigations would clearly state that the FBI was riddled with racism and that it was a bunch of for the approval of their leader, J. Edgar Hoover, a man and white we have seen, was and intelligence that contradicted and he was willing to drag with his theories. Disagreeing with him meant The agency would produce or there would be consequences. So when I read these reports with the mandate to collect evidence that will knock Martin Luther I have kind of a hard time especially when I'm not I'm looking at agent's These aren't transcripts, They're not visual, they're audio, and to me, they're tainted As someone who seeks truth and looks for evidence, that's a problem. Now, in 2027, all of the and at that point we will to those tapes and assess whether or not they change in any way our legacy and our view of Martin But for now, this is not of anything other than the (tape whirring) (typewriter dinging) So it's 1964, the FBI has been spying They have all these reports and this is when Hoover's Martin Luther King Jr. is selected to receive the Nobel Peace Prize, the ultimate moral high ground. Hoover writes a letter to to act, to expose him, and it's just a couple days that package to King's House in Atlanta with the tapes filled and a letter insinuating to end his own life in the next 34 days. We know for certain that this It's like not speculation. A copy of the letter was though he claims that but what we don't know is The tapes were also sent to the media who didn't end up publishing them, but they also didn't expose the fact that the FBI was spying It was a different media but what we do know is that by gathering all this blackmail and sending it to his house didn't work. King was distraught. It was his wife who opened but King didn't stop. He was not knocked off his pedestal. (dramatic music) King continues to Oslo. He receives his prize, suddenly on the front of magazines, and he continues to lead a His list of enemies continues to grow, especially as he joins the chorus of anti-Vietnam War protestors. - And we have been of our adventure in Vietnam. We have been detrimental to the life of the Vietnamese people. That is something about a war like this that makes people insensitive. It dulls the conscience. It strengthens the forces of reaction, and it brings into being - [Johnny] His movement and underserved people of all races. He plans to lead another this one bigger than the last. (crowd clapping) (tense music) About a month before this next big march on Washington was to happen. King was in Memphis, Tennessee of mostly Black trash of safety standards and their low pay. And that night, Martin Luther - We've got some difficult days ahead, (audience clamors) but it really doesn't matter with me now. Like anybody, I would Longevity has its place, but I'm not concerned about that now. I just want to do God's will and he has allowed me to and I've looked over and (audience clamors) I may not get there with you, but I want you to know the night that we as a people will (audience cheers) So I'm happy tonight, I'm I'm not fearing any man. My eyes have seen the glory (audience cheers) - That night, he returned to that he stayed in so often that it was actually named after him. And at 6:01 PM on April 4th, 1968, while he was standing a single shot rang out, He was rushed to the hospital and pronounced dead an hour later. - [Narrator] The Reverend 39 years old and a Nobel and the leader of the in the United States was The sniper's bullet cut down Dr. King as he stood on a hotel balcony in Memphis. Within an hour, Dr. King was dead. That happened at 7:00 PM Eastern time. (indistinct chattering) (tense music) (typewriter typing) - [Johnny] The FBI launched an to this man, James Earl who had escaped from a Missouri prison in a bread truck a year earlier. Ray had rented a room across the street from King's motel earlier that day. Ray allegedly aimed and shot his rifle from Shortly after the shooting, then England, then Portugal His end goal was a called Rhodesia, which But he was apprehended and sent back to the United - He said that Ray was and a fully loaded pistol when he landed at London from Lisbon. - He immediately pleaded guilty, presumably to avoid the risk of the electric chair, and then he was sentenced Three days later, Ray went back no, he didn't kill MLK, that he was a part of a larger (tense music) Those close to King didn't that Ray was the lone gunman who did this. Perhaps they were all too familiar with the horrifying tactics used by the United States government discredit, and threaten Over the course of reporting of rabbit holes when it came to the conspiracy theories We wanted to really confront them and try to understand what evidence exists and what evidence doesn't and The lack of faith in the FBI and scrutiny into this case has revealed some pretty significant some unexplained things, destroyed evidence, witnesses that contradict the real story. A lot of things that that a 40-year-old fugitive could pull off a sophisticated and escape through three countries. But the investigations done that it was Ray who fired the shot. This includes the House Select Committee, a congressional that Ray did it. Though they say it was that there were other people involved. Funders, though they say The King family continued to Then in the nineties, and says that he was a part to hire someone to kill King. The King family took him to court under a wrongful death suit. It was a civil case, so there The jury concluded that the that included others, But to be clear, this with this guy named Jowers of proof for this. It didn't include a real defense, and it didn't include any consequences. There was a symbolic $100 but what it did is shine that a lot of people aren't satisfied with the official story of The fact is that even and investigations and a mock trial that was like live on TV, that ties the FBI or any other government agency to the assassination And I'm saying that as somebody who feels like it wouldn't that the FBI did this. After all, the next year, they to assassinate Black men who (soft music) - We know that there were that they did not share with him. We know that they didn't insist that it is their obligation to do so. One of the only reasons to have to protect people who are and conspiratorial action. They didn't do that. - After looking into all of understanding the reality I think the real reason why people think that the government killed because in a sense, they did. What I've shown you today, and evidence from the of one thing. J. Edgar Hoover and his Bureau of powerful, unelected men and then used their power of Martin Luther King. They did so the moment getting too powerful and that they relied on to and they couldn't stand it. Hoover and his FBI used the sacred levers of justice given to him to carry out a personal and his movement, a and words and ideas and non-violence to try for the oppressed class in this country. But to Hoover, all he could that was threatening his power. - I would say that the to set the atmosphere around King, that he was someone who was dangerous and who was trying to destroy the country to help solidify the way public opinion began to turn against him. - [Johnny] Not only did that that racism was rife at the FBI, but they also note that the FBI's campaign didn't end after he died. When Congress was discussing whether or not to make MLK's the FBI sent people over to vote against it, and Today here in our nation's Theodore Roosevelt, and Abraham Lincoln, King has been resurrected in granite, 30 feet tall, a stone through a mountain of despair. (soft music) And yet, right down the road, not too far away is the headquarters of the FBI, a building commemorating a man who professionalized the who fought against organized crime, but who was also the and governmental overreach, but also against many American people. He implemented widespread domestic spying, including on politicians and presidents. He had dirt on them, the power to control. He hijacked the most to attack the movement and yet, here his building sits. It's perhaps the perfect symbol with maintaining old broken systems that keeps certain people powerful. How we let those structures in our streets, in our politics, in our memories, and in our minds. - [King] I say tonight to white America, there will be no rest. There will be no until the Negro has his freedom. (audience clapping) (tense music)