(dramatic music) (gentle music) (ducks quacking) (gentle music continues) (newspaper rustling) (Robert speaking indistinctly) (door bangs) (gentle music continues) (car engine whirring) (newspaper rustling) (car door bangs) (car door bangs) (bell chimes) (people chattering indistinctly) (baby crying) (hand knocking) - [William] Listening for another opinion? - It's an old habit. I'm gonna send him home today. His mother can start - That's good news. - What is that look? You know I hate that look. - What look? - That, - I have no idea what - I know you miss him too. Thank you for being so dear, but I'm fine. - Are you sure you won't come home for dinner with us tonight, Catherine? Marina went all out this year. She made her homemade - Oh, thank you. I'd love to come, but I - Are you sure? You're not just going home and opening a can of something, and- - Are you joking? That would require cooking. You know me better than that. Thank Marina for me. Tell her I'll call her later this week. - Okay, but if you change your mind. (gentle music) (car door bangs) (car engine whirring) (man speaking indistinctly) (snow crunching) (door bangs) (phone beeping) - [Sara] Good morning, Shelby Hospice. - Hello, Sara? - [Sara] Yes. - [Sara] Oh, hi! - [Sara] Seems to be a good day. - Well, good, good. Yeah, I'm bringing family and don't get her dressed. I'm bringing a brand new - [Sara] Oh, she'll love that. - Yeah. (melancholy music) - [Lori] Oh. - [Robert] Something smells good in there. - Hey dad. - I bet we're having hot dogs. - On Thanksgiving? It's turkey, Grandpa. - I thought you were coming down to the site with me this morning. You know I hate making decisions alone. - I slept at my Daddy's. He didn't wake me up. - I'm sorry, Dad, I forgot You can go down tomorrow, okay? - Fine, but how do you without my right- hand man, huh? Grandma's gonna love this. Where's your sister? I wanna leave soon as I change. - Well, either her plane was delayed or she decided to stay in (door bangs) - Ah-ha! - Ha-ha, I'm here, and I'm found. (Robert laughing) - [Lori] Well good, 'cause you were gonna flake out on us. (Jaclyn laughing) - I don't flake out, I get busy. It's huge! - Get busy flaking out. - It's Thanksgiving, be I'm thankful for my favorite nephew. - I'm a Power Ranger. - Good, we need a superhero in the family. - Jaclyn, as soon as I change, we're gonna go pick up your mother. - Mom should already be here. Sorry. (wind howling) (phone ringing) (people chattering indistinctly) - Dr. Howard, happy turkey day. - Same to you, Sara. How's your daughter? - Oh, she's great, thank you. You were right, it was just teething. - Good. - Treats for the gang. - [Sara] You shouldn't have. - [Catherine] What are we brewing today? - Orange Pekoe. I figured you might stop by. - You are a lifesaver. I think I'll just go - Sure, take your time. - Is Mrs. Rogers up? - I think so. - [Catherine] Good. - Stay, we're having turkey later. - Thanks, I have a party to get to. - Mm, what did she bring? - Why does she still come? - She's got pretty close Used to bring some books and stuff, and she sits in her husband's old room. I think it makes her feel better. - [Nurse] Hm. - [Robert] Let's go see Grandma. - Mr. Woodward, I tried to catch you. - Is something wrong? - Oh, Mrs. Woodward, we to go and she became very agitated. - What is it, heart? Did you call the doctor? - The doctor came a little while ago and gave her something to calm her down. She's fine, but she's still- - I wanna see Grandma. - You know what? We're gonna leave the sign - We're going up. - Go show Grandma. Go show her the painting you made. Honey, we're here. - Grandma, I made you this. It's you coming home. Mom helped me with the words, - Is that nice? Well, let's put grandma back to bed. - Yeah, come here. - Come on, dear. - It's snowing on all the animals. Mama says we ought to - Yeah, okay. Michael's here with We came to take your home Jaclyn, there sweetheart. - Hi, mommy, I missed you so much. I cut my hair again. I know you like it long. - I made your stuffing, Mom. Didn't come out as good as yours. - Here we are now, sweetheart. There we go, we'll put get you home for Thanksgiving dinner. It's your favorite color. - (screams) Get away from me! - It's all right, it's all - (screaming) Help, someone! - Sweetheart, Jaclyn? - What's wrong, Mom? It's just Daddy. - He's trying to kill me. He's trying to kill me! - It's all right, it's all right. - Dad, what's going on? - She gets confused. - It's okay, Michael, She's gonna be all right. (Marybeth whimpering) - It's okay. - I'm leaving with Michael. - Take the Suburban. I'm gonna stay with your mom. - Dad, come with us. We could all come back here tomorrow. Maybe she'll be feeling- - I'll take a taxi home later. - Dad, you may not be able - I'll manage, go. (Marybeth crying) - Could you grab his coat? Dad. - Go, it's okay. - [Sara] Okay, sweetheart, okay, come on. All right, that's right, come on. Now let's go. Slippers off, that's it. Let's get your feet up. (melancholy music) (phone ringing) (woman speaking indistinctly) (door creaking) - Can I help you? - I was looking for - Uh, perhaps they have a - You don't work here? (melancholy music) - [Robert] Sorry to have bothered you. (door clicks) (melancholy music continues) - I'll put these in some water by her bed. - They were her favorites. I don't know if she still remembers that. - It's really coming down out there. You should go home while you I'll stay with her. (melancholy music continues) It was so nice to see you again. I wish you could stay. - Me too. - So where's this party? - Close by. Good thing too, I don't know how far I - Come on, I've only been here an hour. How could the roads already be- - [Dispatcher] All - I live in Arlington on Holbrook Drive. Yeah, I'll pay the driver - [Dispatcher] You can pay - Come on, it's Thanksgiving. I have to get home. - Have a wonderful holiday, Sara. I'll see you soon, if I - (chuckles) I will see you at Christmas. - For sure. (dispatcher speaking indistinctly) (wind howling) (door bangs) (wind howling) Don't do this. It's not your responsibility. - All right, I'll give him $100. I think that's fair. My family is waiting, it's Thanksgiving. - Excuse me. - Yeah, I was going to say- - Could I offer you a lift? - Well, it seems there's only His dispatcher won't - I live on Grey Knoll. That's not too far from you, I believe. - Really? That's, that's great, fine. - [Dispatcher] Hello? - Thanks, great. - Great. (wind howling) - This is your car? - [Catherine] Yes, it is. - A little impractical, don't you think? - But it appears to be your - Want me to drive? - Do I seem grossly incompetent to you? - Just trying to be polite. - Really? - [Robert] Yeah, really. (wind howling) (groans) Sorry. (car door bangs) - Buckle up. (car engine rumbling) (wind howling) - Don't you think you - Well, if you wanna get on the freeway for 20 miles. - Well, I wanna get home - This is a quicker way. (car engine rumbling) - I noticed the doctor's plates. - Mm-hm. - Your husband a doctor? - No. (soft classical music) Is something wrong with the music? - It's your car. - Indeed. (car engine rumbling) (Robert sighs) Perhaps you would prefer country music. - I like jazz, the old stuff. I'd take Sara Vaughan over anyone today. - Certainly, jazz is an important part of our musical history. Sarah Vaughan's vocal but I prefer to listen to the instruments, the musical blending of harmonies- - I just like the sound she makes. - [Catherine] Oh. (soft classical music) (car crashes) (engine revving) Ah! - [Robert] Here. - Hey! (car crashes) What on earth did you - Me? - This is unbelievable. I can't believe anybody - Let's just try to get - You blame me? - Oh no, no, we should have turned left. We wouldn't want to follow a snow plow. - You think you could if you'd been driving. - At this point, I'd just - We hit a patch of ice. There's no way anybody - Would you just try to forget about it and please get out of the car? - All right. You could have avoided it. - I'll tell you what, I will bet you $1,000 that - How incredibly arrogant. This is a one dollar bill. - It's just a metaphor (Catherine grunts) (Catherine sighing) - [Catherine] Oh, God. (Catherine coughing) - [Robert] This car. (Robert grunting) If you're laughing, I swear- - I don't take joy in another's adversity. (Robert grunting) - [Robert] Oh, damn. (car door slams) (phone beeping) - No cell, damn! - [Robert] Oh, damn, no cell. Where the hell are we? - It all looks so different in the snow. We can't be far from somewhere. - Oh? - Well, we weren't driving that long. Shelby Manor must be - I say we stay with the run the heater till the snowplows reach - Good idea, you stay with which happens to be a classic antique. I have responsibilities. - Carving a turkey and serving isn't exactly an emergency. Ah, if we don't die, I'm gonna kill her. - There's got to be something around here. We're not exactly in the wilderness. - No, then we'd be lost. - Has anybody ever told you that you're a real pain in the, ah! - [Robert] Are you okay? - Thank you, I'm all right. - Are you sure? - I'm fine! (wind howling) (playful music) Look, I was right! Where there's a tractor, - Yeah, unless the farm burned down and the only thing left is the tractor. - You're a half empty - No, I live in the real world where people don't drive (snow crunching) - No key. (wind howling) - [Robert] Ow! Damn. (spark crackling) (tractor engine rumbling) I used to be a car thief. - Really? - Rehabilitated. (tractor engine rumbling) Well, hop on. - Where? - How much do you weigh? - None of your business. - Now hang on. - Wait, wait! I lost my necklace. I have to find it. - That's fine. We'll come back in June, and a barbecue. Right now we're low on What the... (wind howling) That ought to do it. - My husband gave me that necklace for our 20th wedding anniversary. - I'm sorry, it's the hyperthermia. - Hypothermia. - My mistake. Hang on, tight. (tractor engine rumbling) - [Catherine] Can't you go faster? I could walk faster. - [Robert] Okay, then get off. - When did Mom get so bad? You said she was doing okay. - Well, that was four months ago. You haven't been home in a while. So, uh, how's it going - His name is Brock and he is not a model. He's a male mannequin. (both laughing) - What's that language he speaks? - It's English. - Oh, really? - [Receptionist] Shelby Manor. - Hi, yeah, this is, Marybeth Woodward's daughter. - [Receptionist] Hi. - [Receptionist] No, he got a ride. He left a little while ago. Well, Dad got a ride a little while ago. He should be home soon. - Mom's never coming home, is she? - Some days she seems just fine. Then others, she's just lost. I made her a photo album just to help her remember who we all are. - Why didn't anyone I should've been here. - Stop biting. You're here now and that's what matters. C'mon, mash these potatoes. That turkey's ready. - Good, I'm starving. - Why? You never eat anything. - I eat, I just got Dad's - That's right, I'm the short, fat sister. - You're not fat, you're pregnant. - Well, thank you. That means a lot coming - You're being hormonal. - Well, that's it, hormones! My life would be perfect - Lori. (bowl shatters) It's Mommy's favorite bowl. - It's alright. - No, it's not. It's the one she got in Italy. - She won't care. (tractor engine rumbling) - You've been cut. - Yeah, I did it starting the tractor. - Let me see. - It's nothing, I'll live. (wind howling) Look, I think we're saved. - [Catherine] Oh, thank God. - [Robert] You may be (tractor engine rumbling) (door bell rings) - Daddy! - Hey! Don't you ask who it is, huh? How's my big boy, huh? - I watched the whole parade on TV. None of the balloons fell down this year. - Really? Well, maybe next year. - Jeff. - You invited me, remember? - I, I know, I just thought you were Dad. - What, he's not here? Where is he? - He's on his way back from seeing Mom. - Well, not unless he's on a snow plow. I barely made the mile and a (Lori sighs) - [Robert] You all right? Come on. - I'm okay. God. (door creaking) (Catherine sighs) (wind howling) Where are you going? There's no one there. (Catherine sighs) (glass shatters) Are you okay? (door creaking) Oh. Breaking and entering is against the law, or didn't you learn that - Maritime law says that when lost at sea, any unoccupied port is a safe zone. - You were in the Marines (door creaking) - Well, I'll make a fire. Maybe you could, uh, look for a phone, some more candles, maybe? The storm knocked the power out. - It's dead. - Yeah, I know. I already tried it. - Then why did you ask Oh, never mind, I don't care. - Your devoted husband will just have to wait for you to surface. - My husband died of - I'm sorry. Occasionally I say the wrong thing. - I noticed that right away. - I'll, uh, go out and look for some wood to make that fire. - So that's it? We don't even try to get help? We just give up and stay here? - No, not at all. I'll stay here by the fire. You go out into the blizzard Bring me back some marshmallows. - Oh, please. - Look, it's just till tomorrow morning. And then, we can leave some money for the broken windows and I'm Robert Woodward. I guess if we're sleeping together, we should now each other's names. - Catherine Howard. - I'll go find some wood and trap a bear. - Good, you go hunt and gather, I'll knit something for the harvest. (Robert chuckles) - (Robert) Uh, why did you give me a ride? - 'Cause I was looking for in the snowy wilderness. - No, really, why did you offer me a ride? - Because I recognized the look. - What look? - The look that says I love my mate more than anything in the world, but if I spend one more watching him suffer, I'll scream. - Was I that obvious? (melancholy music) (door creaking) (Robert grunting) (wind howling) (wood clattering) Oh, what? (grunting) What the hell? (door creaking) Why didn't you tell me you found the wood? - And deny you the chance - Touche. - [Weatherman] The low pressure system unexpectedly moved up from the south, and this is why we have We're up to two and half feet already- - How long ago did he leave? - At least an hour. - [Weatherman] Authorities you stay off the roads. Very slippery conditions, - You know your dad. I'm sure he's pulled over in the Suburban. He'll probably redevelop - The Suburban's here. We drove it home. - He got a ride with somebody. - [Weatherman] As I - Well, what are you doing? - I'm gonna go look for him. - I thought you said - It'll be alright with the 4-wheel drive. - Then I'm going too. - No, no, just stay with Michael. I'll call as soon as I find him. - He's my father, I'm going. - My God, Lori, you're Would you stop fighting - I'm not fighting you. I'm going with you. - I'll stay with Michael. - Thank you. (wind howling) - [Catherine] Now I insist - [Robert] Oh, c'mon, it's just a scratch. - Come and sit down, right here. - Yeah, yeah, yeah. Look, I mean, there's really - Let's have a look. - All right, just a second. There we go. - That's pretty deep. When did you last have a tetanus shot? - Should I know that? - I'll disinfect and dress it for now, but you should see a doctor Sorry. - Ah! The license plates, they're yours, right? You're the doctor. - Pediatric cardiologist. - [Robert] An impressive doctor. - Yup. Put your fingers on that. - You must be freezing. (Catherine chuckles) You really should get Why don't you take a shower. I'm sure they have a bathrobe or something you can change into. - A cold shower and a stranger's - The water should be hot. It's gas. - Really? - Did you ever see Psycho? - Yes, why? - No reason. (door creaking) (gentle music) (water splashing) (macaroni rattling) Ah, my specialty, macaroni and cheese. - Hi. - A little warmer, are you? - Much better. You were a chef at the penitentiary? - I used to make this for my girls on the nights my wife - What did she study? - She taught art to - Feed the body food and feed the soul art and music - She had that up in her classroom. - Really? It's one of my favorite quotes. I never really learned to cook. I guess I didn't have Tom, my husband, was very patient with me. We ordered out a lot. - Marybeth is a great cook. She's Irish Catholic I took her to Italy on our fell in love with garlic. Look what I found. I think they left it for us. - Is that who you were visiting today at the hospice, your wife? - Yes. - How's she doing? - Fine. Well, dinner, such as it is, is served. - You set the table. You're very domesticated - And you are looking very beautiful for a woman who's given up on being one. Oh, that was out of line. That was way out of line. - No, that's okay. What did you mean? - I never should have opened my big mouth. - Please, I'd, I'd like - Well, women have different looks. They're subtle, but men There's available, unavailable, unavailable except for the right guy. - And what am I in your educated opinion? - You're the easiest to read of all. Ice, high walls, guns drawn, unavailable, uninterested, - That is so absolutely not true. I think I'm a very warm person. - Well, if you put on just a little softer, men will - I'm not interested in being noticed. - I didn't mean to embarrass you. - You didn't. Your children used to eat this? Didn't they make a fuss? - Yes, but then we can't order out for Sal's genuine Italian pizza. That's what they used to do. - Tell me about them. - Well, Jaclyn is the youngest. She's the free-spirit artist. Works in a gallery in Soho. Lori, the older one, from a divorce lawyer. Ah, he's a great guy. They, they've gone together for years. They'll work it out. Lori, and her son, they're Michael, he's my best pal. Did you, uh, ever have any- - Grandchildren? No. We never had children of our own. - I guess, being a doctor - No, I prayed for a child. God answered me. The answer was no. - Maybe you weren't Maybe you were supposed One who might save the world, invent a cure for your husband's cancer. - Thank you, I'd never Here. (Catherine speaking foreign language) - Okay. That's wonderful. I thought you said you didn't cook. - Well, it's Thanksgiving. I thought I'd make the effort. (shutter clattering) - I'm gonna have to go fix that shutter or it'll end up breaking the window. Just one for the road. (wind howling) - Are you okay? - I'm fine. - You should've stayed at the house. - [Lori] I thought you - I did, I left early. - Nice of you to fit us in. - For one day, can you just stop? - It meant a lot to Michael He needs to know you still love him. - My son knows that I love him. - I guess that's the least from our parents. - It's my job, Lori, all right? I'm not out having fun, I'm working. If I don't put in a lot of - You can still work and - I... I'll be there for Michael. I'm gonna be in my son's - I'm glad I didn't do that. - (laughs) Your Mom used - How come we don't have to - They told us to go ahead. - Before Daddy got his own apartment, Mommy used to make us wait till Sometimes, we didn't eat till late. - Your grandma did that sometimes. Your mom and I used to wait until your grandpa got home, too. - What's wrong with Grandma? - She's just tired. She's tired of remembering everything and tired of doing all the things that she's been doing all her life. - Is she tired of me? - No, honey. You're why she still remembers - You know, this cabin Could you, uh, hold this for me, will you? - Okay, Like that? - Yes, yeah, that's good. - Watch the hands, please. - (chuckles) Yes, Doctor. You know, Howard and Millie - Who? - The couple who own this place. Howard built it years ago, and they come down here and they sit by the play a little Scrabble, Millie plays the ukelele, - That's the best you can do? - Oh, you can do better? I got it. - Yeah, I think so. Their names are Charlie and Robin. Charlie's dad built this place years ago. Charlie's bringing his new bride down here for their very first Thanksgiving. They plan to light 1000 candles- - And burn the cabin down. - Excuse me, this is my story now. They're going to listen Charlie likes to accompany Scrabble is something they play between eating and making love. - You have a very active - And you're very sensitive for an ex-felon-marine-pessimist. - Yay, I'm gonna need you - Oh, okay, hold on. (fire crackling) - Are you gonna be long? - [Catherine] I'm coming. Here I am. - All right, don't slip. I've almost got it finished. - Here? - Yeah, right there. You know, I'm a builder. - No, you're not. - Oh, I'm not? - I've seen your hands. Those aren't the hands of a builder. - Well, I don't actually mix concrete. I used to, I just don't do it anymore. Now, I just point. - [Catherine] Oh. - There. - [Catherine] You got me - [Robert] Yeah, sorry. - Ooh, I'm fine. Steady hands, clumsy feet. Hey, put me down. - It's freezing out here. I wanna get inside. - I'm perfectly capable of walking. - We both know that's not true. - I'm wondering how many times - I call 'em like I see 'em. - Honesty, that's so - Would you get that door, please? - I haven't been picked up - That's a shame. You need picking up. (gentle music) I'm sorry, I'm sorry. (door creaking) R-A-V-E-L, unravel. That's twelve points and the lead. - Q-U-I-Z, blank, Z-E-S. That's fifty points and the game. - 50, horse pucky! - Double letter, double word. - Damn, you're competitive for a woman. - You have a lot of ideas about - You break a lot of my preconceptions. - Why, because I beat you? Because I'm a doctor? - No, because you're smart and tough, without being afraid to be feminine. Women seem to have a hard time with that. Your husband was a lucky man. - Thank you. - You know, I will bet you at Murray's that that's - You eat at Murray's? - Every day on my way to work. - Oh, that is so odd. We live in the same area, we and yet we never ever met. - Reverse fate. You ever had the chocolate chip pancakes? - I'm an adult. - Well, I'm a little when I'm alone so I and let him order. They're so wonderful, - I can't wait to try them if we live. - I wanna see the look on your face when you take that first bite, so I'll meet you there this Sunday. We'll eat chocolate chip pancakes - It's a date. (fire crackling) - All right, we'll play one more game. I'll spot you a vowel. - I think I'll quit while What time is it? - It is after midnight. - We should get some rest. You take the bedroom. I'm gonna stay here right on the couch. I'm used to getting very little rest. - Oh, no, no, if I go to sleep now, I'm afraid I won't get up. And I'm not about to climb that ladder. What would it look like if Millie came in and found you asleep on How would Howard explain that? - Okay, we stay up all night (wind howling) (car engine whirring) (fire crackling) You said your daughter What kind of gallery? - [Robert] Modern art. She's a painter herself. - [Catherine] I used to paint, badly. - Marybeth says art is emotion. - I used to paint trees a lot. I love trees. I loved to climb them as a child. My mother said I was probably I'm sorry, I ramble in - I'll bet you were cute as a child. - Not at all. I was skinny like a bean pole, had bandy legs, a lazy eye. - I wore braces and glasses We would have been a match made in heaven. - Pity we didn't meet as children. (car engine whirring) - I'm just gonna see (gentle music) (fire crackling) (phone ringing) - Hello? - Hi, it's Jeff. There was no sign of him on the main road and he didn't come back to the hospice. They say he left in a sports car, a small Jag or something. - That can't be good. - [Jeff] Well, we're not giving up yet. How's Michael doing? - Uh, he's asleep. I didn't tell him anything. - [Jeff] Good, all right, look, uh, I'm gonna try another route back to the house and keep looking. - Okay, call me. - [Jeff] Okay. - I don't have much left to give Marybeth except staying with her right now. - [Catherine] I'm sure she needs you as much as you need her. - She's not fine, she's not getting better, I lied. She had three heart attacks Her heart was compromised At least that's what they say this week. Truth is, she doesn't know me anymore. She just sees some stranger - [Catherine] She knows you. - How do you know that? - In her soul, a woman never forgets a man who's occupied her heart for so long. Tom was older than I by 15 years. He was awfully good to me. He never seemed to mind if in the middle of the movies, Take this time with I know, I've been there. (soft music) - I'm just gonna grab a couple a winks. - Okay, I'll take the first watch. (fire crackling) (car engine whirring) - They had to have come this way. - I can't even see the road. Oh, my God. - That's got to be the car. (wind howling) It's empty. There's no one here. - [Lori] Oh, thank God. - They must've taken off on foot. - Ah, that's just like my father. - I'm gonna go look for them. Just wait in the car. - No, I'm going with you. - No, Lori, it's cold, all right? I'm not - (fire crackling) Dad! - [Jeff] Robert! We better call the police. (soft music) - Robert? Robert? (bird chirping) Robert! Robert? (door creaking) (door creaking) (phone clicking) (engine choking) (playful music) - Thank you for this. (playful music) - That's my husband's. - I'm sorry, I found it in your car. - I bought those for him I guess I forgot about them. - Yeah, well, these are hard to get. - A friend of mine gets them for me. You may have met him in prison. - I walked back to the car. It's dead. - Now what? - Well, the snow plow came through. I think I know where we are. As soon as I warm up a little, I'll hike back up the main What's wrong? - I'm sorry, it's the smell. It reminds me so of Tom. - Oh, I'm so sorry. I didn't realize. - It's okay. - It's funny about smells, I went to the department store and I tried every perfume they had trying to find the one that Marybeth wore. One day I'm walking up I followed this lady for three blocks, asked her what she was wearing, turned out it was her shampoo. I missed my wife's hair - That's dear. She would love knowing that. - Thank you. I like talking to you. I wanna know all about you. Catherine- - I know, it was just one, special night, but thank you for helping me discover that life can still be pleasant. - Maybe, some day in the future... - Who knows. - Dad? Dad? Dad. Dad! (car engine whirring) - I can't believe you found that cabin. Do you know how lucky you are? - It saved our lives. - We would've been fine. - We would have frozen to death. - You're a half empty - No, I just live in the real world where snow melts and life goes on. - I left some money for Howard and Millie. - Who? - Charlie and Robin. - We'll have to send a It's buried pretty deep. - Oh, it's a silly car It was a gift from my father when I graduated medical school. I went to UCLA, they - Wow, it's that old. Uh, not that you're, I just meant it's a classic. It's got to be worth a fortune. - Oh, it is. My father gave it to me. There, on the left, that long drive. - That's your house? - Yes. - I used to walk by here You gave out great candy on Halloween. - Oh, I love spoiling the (uplifting music) (birds chirping) Thank you for rescuing us. I'm forever in your debt. - I owe you, after all those Hershey bars. - [Catherine] Oh, bye. - [Jeff] Bye bye. - I'll walk you to the door. - No, no, no, no. Stay there, I'm fine. - Oh, Catherine, I never really spent time in prison. - Just as I was beginning to - I'll never lie to you again, I swear. - I'll bet you $1000 you - (chuckles) Bye. - Bye bye. (car engine whirring) (soft music) - What? - So what happened between you two? - Nothing, we were stuck - She's beautiful. - Is she? (soft music) (clock ticking) (phone beeping) - [Operator] Doctor's exchange. - Hello, this is Dr. Howard, any messages? - [Operator] Uh, no, you're all clear. - Good, okay, I'm home, - [Operator] Very good, Dr. Howard. - [Catherine] Thank you. (birds chirping) - I was really worried about Dad. - Well, turns out he was (Jaclyn laughing) - When did we get old enough to have to worry about our parents? God, I hate it, it's freaky. - Yeah, freaky. - What's that supposed to mean? - [Lori] Nothing. - What? - [Lori] Nothing. - That's not nothing. - You call home You worry 5000 miles and 5000 - You chose to live here. Nobody's forcing you. - No, I choose to be a grown up. I go see Mom every day. I sit with her while she calls me Mona, then asks me to bring her her skates. I watch Dad feed her and dress No, I don't worry about them. I'm part of them. I'm in their lives. - It's not your job. You don't have to take care of them. - [Lori] I don't just take care of them. Forget it. - What? - That is not just some woman wandering around lost out there. That's Mommy. You remember her? The woman who drove 600 to bring you Mr. Fluffy after you swore you wouldn't need him. Or when you were six, and you were crying because to be a fairy princess. No, I'm not here because I have to be. I'm here because they're Mom and Dad, and I'm not finished needing them. - I was really worried about you. - Well, thank you, sweetheart. - I've decided I'm gonna stay a while if that's alright with you. - Well, sure, honey. Be great having you and your sister home. It'll be like old times. What about your work? - I can take some time off. - Great, great, I, uh, I have to get down to the site - I'm sorry that I wasn't here more. I guess I was afraid. - She knows how much you love her. - I can't lose her. (crying) - Oh, honey, honey. It's okay. (children laughing) (ducks quacking) (phone ringing) - Hello? - [Marina] Hello, Catherine, it's Marina. - Oh, hi Marina. - [Marina] Did you have - Uh, yes, I had a fine Thanksgiving. Well, tell me all about yours. - [Marina] We had a house full. - [Catherine] Uh huh. - [Marina] Ten of them - Really? (Marina speaking indistinctly) William told me, uh-huh. Sounds delicious. What are you doing? He's not gonna be there. (cheerful music) - She's not gonna be there, anyway. (uplifting music) (car door bangs) (uplifting music) - No, thank you. (bell chiming) - Dr. Howard. - Oh, Catherine. - I haven't seen you in such a long time. I see you, I still - I know. - I'm sorry, I shouldn't - No, no, no, no, it's okay. - Table for one, today? - Actually, I'm expecting - [Murray] Come, I'll give you a table, you can have some coffee and read the Sunday papers - Him. Um, do you still make - Absolutely. - Good, thank you. (phone ringing) - Hello? - [Lori] Dad, Mom's had another attack. - What? - [Lori] They're taking - When? - [Lori] Now, please hurry, it's bad. - Yeah, I, I'll be right there. (car engine whirring) (melancholy music) (people speaking indistinctly) - [Man] Hey, how are you, buddy? - Hi. - [Michael] Grandma doesn't - That's right. - Mommy says because Grandma I think she's wrong. - Hey, hey, hey, what is this? - Aunt Jaclyn says it makes me look cool. (Jaclyn laughing) - It's just a clip on. You don't wanna have to - Nobody does. - [Man] Right, right. (people chattering indistinctly) (dishes clanking) - [Jeff] You don't have to do that now. - Yes, I do. - [Jeff] Then let me help you. Thank you. I've gotten used to - So this is it, Lori? You and I are over because Our family is destroyed because I wasn't paying enough attention? I am trying harder. - How dare you? How dare you think I would for your job? - Well, that's what - You really think I'm that stupid? Do you really think I - You never said anything. - I guess I was hoping you would. - It's, it's over, Lori. I, I promise you, it's been over for... I am so sorry. - I thought we were a family. - I don't get another chance? I love you, Lori. I always have. I made a terrible mistake, and it's never gonna happen again. I'll do whatever it takes Please, Lori. I'll take Michael back to my house, give you a chance to be with your family. - Thank you. (Lori sniffling) (melancholy music) (Lori crying) - Are you okay? - No. I need Mom. - I know, I know. (uplifting music) (people clapping) (bell ringing) - Nicely done, (indistinct). - [Man] Merry Christmas. - Catherine, merry Christmas. - Oh, William, merry Christmas. - You look different. - I do? - Sure. - [William] Party's a great success. - Oh, I think they've done William, could I ask you something? - Sure. - What impression do I give as a woman? - I don't know what you mean? - This is so silly. I mean, do I appear to you available but not really, - Are you sure you haven't - (laughs) Cheers. (glasses clink) - [Operator] Doctor's Exchange. - Hi, this is Dr. Howard, any messages? - [Operator] No, you're all - Thank you, merry Christmas to you to. (phone beeps) (door bangs) (car engine whirring) (soft jazz music) Life is just Breathing in and out again Keep it short Keep it simple, they say But hard as I try To keep this thought of you - [Robert] Here we go, big guy. Yeah, there. Oh what I wouldn't give For the chance to see you Good for you. There's another one. Pick it up. See you Never knew how easily My life would change After one special moment With you I could get used to Those dinners for two And the mornings that start off With seeing you Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, yeah - [Receptionist] Can I help you? - Hi, is Sara on duty? - She has a kid, so she got I'm just filling in. - Of course. I was wondering, has Marybeth to visit her today? It's not important, I - I'm sorry, there doesn't seem to be a Marybeth Woodward here anymore. She must have gone home. - Oh, I see. I think I'll just go [Receptionist] -Are you - Oh, no, no, no, I just like to sit in my husband's old room. The one he was in when he was here. - I'm sorry, all the rooms We had several new patients - Oh, I understand. Uh, thank you. (melancholy music) (car door bangs) (Catherine crying) (phone ringing) Hello? - [Woman] Dr. Howard in cardiac distress. - Yeah. - [Woman] You were requested. - Okay, I'm on my way. (Catherine sniffling) (car engine whirring) - [Man] Pediatrics, can I help you? - [Woman] Yes, here she is. - [Man] Yes, ma'am. - Okay, Cory, what do we have? - Premature labor, 34 weeks. Separation of placenta We need to do a stat section. - [Catherine] Is she prepped? - [Robert] Catherine. - [Catherine] Robert. - I asked for you. It's my daughter Lori. She's early and they say - I'll get back to you as soon as I can. (phone ringing) - [Man] Yes, Doctor. - [Doctor] You'll be all right. - [Catherine] Hi, Norman. - [Norman] I'm glad you're here. - Hello, Lori, it's Dr. Howard. I'm a pediatric cardiologist. Your Dad sent for me. - He told me. I'm so scared. - Oh, you're gonna be just fine. You're in good hands. - But it's too soon. I still have three weeks. - Well, maybe this one's - [Jeff] Lori. - [Doctor] I'm sorry, - [Jeff] No, I have to be with my wife. - [Doctor] I'm sorry, you- - [Catherine] It's okay, Kerry. - [Nurse] Doctor, she's ready. - [Jeff] Hi. - [Jeff] I'm so proud of you. - I know. - I love you, Lori. You have to forgive me. - I do? - [Jeff] Yeah. - Okay. - [Jeff] Okay. (chuckling) - [Doctor] Clamp. - [Nurse] Here, Doctor. - [Doctor] Suction. - [Doctor] Clamp. Baby's here, suction. - [Woman] Get the isolate ready. - [Doctor] Clamp. Scissors. - [Doctor] Okay, let's dry her off. - Doctor, is he okay? - [Doctor] Stimulate her, - [Doctor] What's the heart rate? - [Catherine] Heart rate's 70. Starting cardiac massage. - [Doctor] Good. - [Doctor] Here you go. (indistinct) more oxygen, (indistinct). - Jeff, I don't hear anything. - [Jeff] Is everything alright? - [Doctor] Good, good, keep working. - [Doctor] We're gonna get that up. - Doctor, is he okay? - [Doctor] Good, she's picking up. I think she's gonna make it. (baby crying) (Catherine laughing) (Lori laughing) - [Catherine] You have a - [Jeff] Hi, there. - Oh, she's beautiful. - [Jeff] She's so beautiful. - Thank you. - [Jeff] Thank you so much. (Lori laughing) (baby crying) (phone ringing) - Robert, she's going to be fine. We had to do a C-section, - And the baby? - [Catherine] Fine, we - A girl, that's great. Is she okay? - I don't see any long term problems. I want neo-natal to keep but just as a precaution. She's a beautiful little girl. - Thank God. I hope you didn't mind me calling you. - Oh, it's my job. - [Robert] Uh, how've you been? - Good, fine, you? - Okay, I was hoping I'd run into you. - Really? - Did you go? That Sunday we were supposed to meet, did you go for chocolate chip pancakes? - Oh, you know what, I forgot. I got so busy. - Oh. - Did you? - I was there. - You were? You were there? - Yes. - At Murray's on main, on Sunday? - Yes, I got called away, but I was there. - I have to go. - When can I see you? - Uh, I don't know. It's a very busy time of year. - Yeah, well, I know I - Oh, I understand. I have to go. - Uh, well, I'm going away for, uh, Christmas, my vacation home. Maybe when I get back- - Sure. - Catherine, she may be the one, the special child you were meant to save. - Well, it's Christmas Eve, it's the right night for it. (melancholy music) (people speaking indistinctly) - Merry Christmas, Dr. Howard. - Merry Christmas, Sue. (people speaking indistinctly) (phone ringing) Hi. How's she doing? - She's perfect. She's beautiful, thanks to you. - Oh, I didn't do much. How are you? - I'm a little sore. He's exhausted. - I bet. Actually, he was pretty brave in there. You must be proud. What did you name her? - Marybeth, after my mother. - Oh, that's sweet. How is she? - My mom? Oh, she died the Sunday - The Sunday after Thanksgiving? I'm so sorry. I didn't realize. - I felt her here with me all night. - I'm sure she was. Get some rest. I'll have one of the nurses stop by and check on you and the baby. - I'm fine, we're fine. - I'll check on you first Good night. He was there. (people speaking indistinctly) (Catherine sighs) You are such an idiot. Stupid, stupid, stupid. (joyful music) - [Sally] Merry Christmas, Dr. Howard. - Merry Christmas, Sally. - [Sally] They make you work on Christmas? - No, I just came by - She's doing great. I was just gonna take her to her mother. It's time for her feeding. - I'll do it. - [Sally] Thanks. (cart clattering) - Oh, merry Christmas. - There she is. - I hope you don't mind, they brought Christmas to me and the baby. - Oh. - Oh, look. - Hi. - That's your aunty Jaclyn. - You're here. They said you weren't on call today. - Well, I had a special patient. Hello, Michael. - Hi. - So, you have a brand - She looks like me when I was a baby. (all laughing) - Oh, you must be Jaclyn. - Hi. - Hi. - You're right, she is the Hershey lady. - I told you. (Jaclyn laughing) - I walked past your house this morning. - I was here looking for you. I have a present for you. It's in my car. - You do? - Walk out with me? - Would you excuse us? (all laughing) - What? - Robert, I was there that I waited, and I tried the They were delicious. - Open it. (Catherine gasps) - Where did you find this? - Piece a cake. - But it's exactly like - That is the one you lost in the snow. - I can't believe you'd do this. - And I found this. It's Channel. I took it with me to the department store. A hundred women smelled it. - A hundred women? - It's just a metaphor. Can you get away? There's something I wanna show you. - It's Christmas morning. - I'll drive. - Why? Do I seem grossly incompetent - No. (gentle music) (car engine whirring) I thought about you a lot. - When you didn't call - I wanted to call. I just felt it was a little too soon. (tires screeching) - Ooh, I don't believe this! - I can't believe this happened twice. (tires grinding) - I had nothing to do with it this time. - Uh, you stay in the - No, you stay in the car. I have responsibilities. People depend on me. (door bangs) (door bangs) (birds chirping) (snow crunching) (uplifting music) Oh, I've tried to find my way back here. I've always got lost. - Well, I spend a lot of time here. - Really? If you stranded us here on Charlie and Robin are home, it seems. - Maybe Howard and Millie - [Catherine] Robert, you on Christmas morning. We mustn't interrupt, Robert. - I'm sure they'll be happy to see us. - They're probably afraid Robert? (glass shatters) He's crazy. (birds chirping) Where are Charlie and Robin? - Howard and Millie moved to Florida. The place was for sale. - This is your vacation home? You bought it? - It's just for an emergency, in case I ever got stranded again. Do you believe in second chances. - I'm a woman of science. I only believe in what I see. (door creaking) - Merry Christmas, Millie. - Merry Christmas, Howard. (uplifting music) (uplifting music) (dramatic music)