There is a large room to the right, you breathing slowly anyway? Because That's fabulous, that's fabulous. They were put there for eternity we are going to interrupt it. You never know in advance find is much more interesting is very beautiful. It is very good Hop that's it, it's coming, it's coming, it's going. Come on. This is the first time in my life intact, made of wood. But it doesn't stop there. It's only just begun. 7 a.m., 30 kilometers south Christiane Ziegler's team At the foot of the oldest of the pyramids, We are at the sources Christiane Ziegler. His second, Jean-Pierre Adam and Marie-Francoise at the Louvre Museum. For several months. Because the excavation campaign to be exceptional. At the entrance to the site, Most participate in the project Is this a family? It's a reunion, for 10 years. We get to know each other and appreciate each other. There were collapses, the whole area. Over there, this piece of wall fell, we hadn't seen it. Because there are First there is the general cleaning, obviously carries away all the memories are a few thousand that end up in the hole. Obviously, it's an interesting refuge. There, since November, Nothing has moved and as it is very sheltered, come, housed in this large, interesting kennel. There is sand everywhere, so it creates holes, Cleaning the site, The head of the excavation on the Salah, is in charge. First week off to a great start. The workers. Their number will soon reach a hundred. Must remove several meters of sand Beneath their feet to the most ancient periods 3000 years plus eight centuries of the Middle Ages. It is one of the rare places in Egypt. We are from the entire history of Egypt on such a narrow site. We are going to set up our In addition to the restoration, Marie-Francoise takes care She has worked in Egypt Yes, I speak Arabic, I'm half Egyptian. The installation has barely been completed. 1 hour at most. After the start of the work, A funeral jewel. It's a real stroke of luck and it's a good sign for the future. It's huge, huge. It's a breastplate. It is a jewel It's magnificent. it's very rare. This is the first time we've seen this, it's extremely rare. What is Well at the same time, and that it has this decoration And I think there are inscriptions. That is to say in the The time of Cleopatra. Earthenware is very fragile, what we call the term earthenware Because it has nothing to do with the earthenware we and it is extremely fragile. Everything is cracked Which means that, we could possibly see it You have to be careful. It's a collar because it's worn on It's a lucky charm. Look at me, I have it too You see, it's the eye of Horus. Originally placed in a tomb It was probably exhumed by grave robbers. They then lost it Another important character on the site, the rais Rais does that mean leader? In fact, in Egypt, he is the Rais. The person who supervises the workers is actually a specialist. The Rais with whom we have been working who is part of a dynasty of rais. It is To lead such a large team. You really have to be both vigilant There are moments of great excitement that we have to And I really appreciate that. End of the first day Several meters deep, they lead to tombs from the The next day is Friday, a So we meet early Saturday morning at the foot of the Saqqara site. This is the hotel where the team is staying. It's 6 a.m. Egyptian specialties aish baladi, That's part of the charm of this month of excavations. the archaeologists stop The team is now almost complete. You have to be early to do archaeology! It's truly with this hot, fresh bread Christian, photographer at the Louvre Museum. Nathalie, the second restorer. Cecile and Nathalie, who are participating in the excavation This is why Jean-Pierre is show them the site this morning. On site, it's the start of serious things. These workers break a concrete slab one of the wells discovered It goes down fourteen meters. Yes, it's an important well. There is a kind of rule which is not systematic. But the higher the character is the deeper his grave is, So there, high mountain, practically. This one already at fourteen meters, While the small wells of the servants some reached seven meters. This is quite rare and often he over-dug because the ground So we had to look for another level 2 hours later. The concrete slab is removed. Eleven meters exactly. We put three meters of sand at the bottom. The rock is fourteen meters away. A concrete slab, plus a grid, These are security measures As soon as the sand rises, we can descend into the grave. It's 10 a.m. The workers have just made There is now a child's sarcophagus. There are some interesting little details. For example. We see some ankles here. And because very often, small pieces, obviously to the maximum of the possibilities of And very often, a small sarcophagus of around twenty, even around and complete the shape. It was softened with a layer of clay. The face was outlined in the wood. Then we refined it, we worked it in clay, we modeled it in clay. Modest It is very sensitive to sunlight. This is why, very quickly, In one of the mission tents. Francis, an Egyptologist, with his friend Pierre. We must have a lot of respect who ultimately managed to survive until us, who have spent an eternity. Already because 2000 then 2500 years. I find indeed, even if they very modest embalming and mummification conditions. I don't know if I will make it past 2500 years. That's yes. It does something to me, Also touches Pierre. I think it affects a lot of people That's why we're here. Even more summary A simple earth mask Then it will stay for half an Yes, in this state, yes, that's it, yes. This is why Marie-Francoise immediately soaks up Like the previous one, this sarcophagus the last centuries of What is in front of me is it, this small structure of It's a pyramidion. A small miniature pyramid. The monument was so fascinating to the benefits, if I may say so, the symbolic staircase which allows one to ascend And then, it is also a sign of a The pyramid was the absolute royal monopoly throughout And then after? The King is no longer the only owner of Egypt, There is real democratization. There is a middle class that is emerging as evidenced by which are not sarcophagi And also this astonishing right of building a signal monument 10:30 a.m. full meal for the workers. After which opening of the first well. A rope, one's foot in a basket, fourteen meters deep. It's impressive, isn't it?! Oh yes, it's very deep. We close our eyes during the descent anyway. And then we recite those we remember. Besides, good luck. when we go down. The tomb was opened at the end of Here it is as archaeologists discovered it. On the right there is even an additional tomb which belongs to his closets in which we see a small very modest grave. Looters ravaged the tomb. It at that time , thieves were looking for This is And below These mummies fortunately protected other burials They didn't find them. We had covered it temporarily and underneath, of magnificent wood, comparable we have another one you will see. He also A face emerging from the sand with gold on its face. This is a very fine example of a late period sarcophagus. You imagine that when we saw this type of object and above this accumulation of mummies, we would tend to want to And yet, everything deserves to be treated course. Because this accumulation itself . The mummies were deposited here Its As for the well, which allows you to get here, Ancient empire, like of which it is part. Two large rectangular buildings, In the vocabulary of Egyptologists. A small street separates them. It serves several funeral chapels offerings to the deceased. Here lies the reason for our presence. The reason why Christiane Ziegler in this place. The funeral chapel She is no longer in Saqqara. In 1903, to the Louvre Museum. It is that of Akhethetep, doctor, magician Christiane Ziegler This is how it all started. Akhethetep, is today secure Salah takes us there. He has just announced our arrival. There are brand new stores here. They were opened last year. At the entrance to the Saqqara site. A huge hangar. It's still This is very important. These are the site's reserves. This means that most of the objects are kept here. 20,000 pieces are stored here. This is an old discovery. He is in the spotlight. Very, very exceptional. It is the only statue which has this emblem which is the symbol of the goddess Bat. It has a human head facing the front And then small ears It was the badge the badge, the viziers, the Minister of the Interior It's a very, very special sign. And this badge is of course that of Akhethetep, a statue They are approximately 4400 years old. We find the same text, Akhethetep there. And we have all these titles which are also Titles But after unique friend, the ritualistic priest, the person in charge of the secret of the house And then his name Akhethetep. In the next room, a real treasure. In its boxes, hundreds of objects, around the world. Including Some more recent examples. It's a true masterpiece. I don't know if we can see and a harem bird, first millennium BC. Or even this funeral box. here is Isis and Nephthys around the symbol or one of the symbols of the god Who, you may know by his brother, dismembered. The pieces of the body throughout the Nile valley, the goddess Isis, who, according to them together thanks to his magic, helped her to live wanted to be a new Osiris Here we have a summary of this legend. Legend at the origin of mummification and all the funerary practices Return to the construction site. This morning, the team is complete and work can begin in the tomb Hence the installation facilitate access. Here is Guy Le Kuyo Loiseau harem who found them. That's still a First day and difficult job. Guy has three weeks to clear everything. The objective, of course, is under the mummies. Rubber gloves Mummies can contain reactivated by oxygen Fifteen square meters. It's around 30 degrees. Hard work, then, but some great rewards. Under the mummies, funerary masks. These elements fit together on the mummy. Like a mask on the mummy in fact? completely cover the head front and back It fitted onto the mummy. Adornment 1st century BC. Next to the funerary masks, Guy discovers several replicas On the chest of mummies. A little consolidating liquid. And Marie-Francoise brings this necklace have a The necklace that we find everywhere, on Necklace, some examples of which This one is in the Cairo Museum. For the richest people who could afford the class below, And then the poorest, simply painted representations, like these cardboard boxes So I put a damp paper towel . then I stuff it with newspaper. So we work The eye was completely inside. The face was open. We're going to give it back to him. There you go, it sticks. It's Third day of work and opening of the other It leads to two underground tombs. For safety. It too was filled with Ramadan and one of the best specialists in and cleaning in tombs. Ramadan and his friend Abdel Nabi. They are all discoveries. This year, So there, you go down again to put To clear the way and we can enter the tomb. End of the day, the well is cleared, the way is open. We must now with the installation of this iron gate, so as to discourage The big moment Archaeologists have been waiting for this moment The first ladder After which you have to slide another one Wait, we 're almost there. We'll try not to fall. through which you must then squeeze Three more meters. And Francis joins Jean-Pierre. Go again and poof! There you go, he hasn't aged a bit. Yes, we're a little out of breath, so that's impressive. It's fabulous, that's fabulous. Here, the graves are intact. The tomb has not been robbed We are inside a gallery eleven meters long. A little fake door there. There, we see the Oculus. the Oculus, a tomb Gallery at the bottom of which is held by an enormous sarcophagus. He has a face of quite astonishing beauty, gentleness and gentleness He has his wig neatly combed. The conventional decor with the protective goddesses, the sons of Horus. These are the mats which were used, which were rolled, even tied up. And then ceramics which used for embalming The problem, obviously, to transport, to move, and being able to separate them, fit into each other of mikado. We are in their eternity, yes, they were put there for eternity We're going to interrupt him. Are we violating something all the same? The two are mixed. We have the scientific pleasure, unviolated tombs with their complete furniture they are still human beings. One day we will be like that, and they thought they would be safe of years, like the name of the temples And then we come to break time. Mummies and sarcophagi are between 2000 and 2500 years old. The gallery, on the other hand, It is over 4000 years old. We are back in the Old Empire, and we are going to stay there for a moment with Jean-Pierre. and most prestigious the famous step pyramid from 1600 years BC. Here it is with its eight-meter-high limestone enclosure and its immense funerary complex. The architect's name is Imhotep. His client? The first great We know its name, We say Djoser or Djoser for that matter? As there are no vowels in Egyptian writing, For example, King Pepi, For reasons of political correctness, Don't look up, but at the foot of the pyramid, you can It all started with her. The first stone monument finally. The first great funerary monument This is this first mastaba of King Djoser. It is obviously a To imagine it, how high was it at the time? probable height, of the order of 8 to 9 meters. We can estimate it. Moreover, we can still see the silhouette smaller than those which constitute And then we say to ourselves it's too small. This is exactly the reasoning The funerary monument for eternity So Imhotep imagined superimposing several mastabas, If it is not the word mastaba geometrically Stack several graves? First, a first stepped pyramid, itself considered insufficient. And Imhotepe finished the work us, which has six successive tiers. It is the divine staircase How high is this pyramid? The pyramid The Egyptians themselves were that Imhotep occupied in their history since they had canonized him we have statuettes of immortals He is protector of knowledge, writing because he was remembered of architecture. An exceptional privilege, into the funeral chapel of King Djoser. the number two in Egyptian antiquities Access strictly prohibited. The underground passages have been weakened earthquakes. You have more than 28 meters, since the bottom Yes, that's it. Here we are in front of the The king is inside. And symbolically, appears to visitors through the false doors He is in He already has the Syrian beard on the royal stockings, What's amazing is that the roll He is realistic. We have the impression that it is with the ties The door is open and we see the king. So there we go, in the palace with these same double titles, We have to watch out for the head here. Inside, the walls were covered imitation of the reed mats the dwellings of the living. First And then a successful challenge to build a palace We are still in it. Sixth day and start of work gallery. Ah, that's beautiful, The deceased's name was Penou, it is written on the sarcophagus. The traces of blond there are salt. In fact, Egypt is an ancient sea, there was salt everywhere. Here. We'd love to know what's in But hey, you have to remain And so with a lot of patience you must first do all the documentation before opening. The documentation which the gallery as it was discovered. Christian must grasp everything the arrangement of the bodies and objects. And the ideal would be to photograph Yes, you would need a corner device. How did we do it? What is there Not very conclusive. Christian And attach a small camera to it. The device will allow people to see Anyway, We will have some data. ok, that's fine. We see things we've Anyway. Look at the bottom right. 's the rock on the left, it looks like rubble. Rubble. To the right of the screen. In this slight recess, undoubtedly a door, Exactly what Jean-Pierre is looking for This would allow and bring part of them to the surface. Christiane We have some beautiful images to show you. Indeed, there is an extraordinary accumulation we can see much better. but all that remains is to find And precisely, that very afternoon the door to the Great Gallery So, there is an There, side by side, so we will have 4 wells in eight meters of length, Which one goes down to our? this one. Finally, that's the bet we made. You can start this one again a little later. Hopefully We're down and off we go. Except that very quickly, enormous Gamal is called to the rescue. When Gamal digs, it's a bit of an attraction. Yes, he's It is and everyone is fascinated. All the workers stopped And then, it's The matter is more complicated It will take two days to consolidate before digging again. Thursday evening, and payday for the workers. Weekly salary 150 or around EUR25. Marie-Francoise, every day, and the present with Armelle And yesterday we spent part of the afternoon salaries, checking. It is Catherine And then I make invoices for the certified accounting officer service does the... Most of the workers Some, they are rare, are illiterate. This is the case of this gentleman. These are personal seals person's three first names. Similar ones existed some have even been found, bearing Small bonus for the elders, for those the construction site photo. sSaturday morning, the week begins with a mixture of calm and tension. The search is almost paralyzed. Everyone prepares for the arrival . Valiant Helvetia. This allows me to refine we will insert sneakily between the tank Oh I cut myself. So today, the first opening of a sarcophagus in large company himself made the trip. Here is his convoy upon arrival. His name is Zahi Hawas and he is a figure in Egyptology. The discovery is very rare He wants, through his presence, I am very moved. We carefully remove the lid, the lid of the sarcophagus It was assembled No nails in ancient Egypt, That's it, we can see the feet. Indeed, we could not have opened it There's the mummy inside. As they say there, he has his arms alongside his body. It's very moving. It's truly an extraordinary moment. We don't disturb the mummy. On the contrary, we learn with it. we learn things about the lifestyles of the time, was 2500 years ago. The 26th dynasty, After the departure of Zahi Hawas, The mummy remains inside. We are restoring the foot box that Jean-Pierre There you go, it's Lego, it's Lego. Marie-Francoise and Cecile They used glue, we have all the traces of So often gum arabic, Gum arabic, it So of course, Now it's a little, In the life of a restaurateur, Well listen, yes, it's still nice to be able to work in the tomb itself on objects Because in museums, practically all the objects we several times. And it's good We're going to put the barrels in the holes and that's it. So there you have it, it's closed in the evening, at closing time. The exhumed pieces are stored in a Some They are also preserved, often found inside wells. So behind it, you have a little And we know what that is. Just take a walk on the causeway It's a piece of ceiling. It's the starry sky. To the south of the site, today used by visitors. It once started from the Nile valley and went up to the pyramid of King Unas. The Ounas roadway A small part has been reconstructed. You see the stars too, against a blue background along the entire roadway, that is to You had this kind was invisible to the Egyptians. Simply the processions of priests, which they used. We are under the Old Empire, 2300 years before Christ. It 's King Ounas himself. This is the only representation we You see that the eye hollowed out and in fact it was enhanced by green color. At this time, kings still have Portrait immediately re-silted. Only Egyptologists know The sand protects, it protects the entrance to the high temple. Here worship was given We have a lot of columns. The most sacred place, the intimate temple, In spare parts. Columns carried away They were reused as was the polished limestone that There are hardly any left. However, the interior is intact. It is today The walls of the vault A historical document, that has come down to us. This text which we call the text of the Great Departure or we say you did not leave dead, a whole program which will take place in a very archaic language , deciphered all the vocabulary And these are To ultimately achieve his divinization, he will take his place among the gods, settling into the boat of the sun. The next morning, the and a new highlight Descent I have short legs then. I'm not a Barbie doll. You have to go through the well which leads to the large gallery. But instead of going straight, you have to turn right. A very narrow passage and which, five meters further down, Here we go. First well. the very narrow passage and second well. So I slip in there. Welcome to Iahmes. His name is written He too is intact. No grave robbers Marie-Francoise applies a consolidant. It will fix the paint from outside. Look at all these colors popping up. the lotuses, the papyrus, the rosettes on the chest there is the winged goddess The goddess Nut. Go and see the eyes that come alive, by a strip of makeup that stretches the mouth. The sarcophagus, before being placed in the tomb, received We see in the scenes the sarcophagus erected, the priest who restores The priest touched At the foot of the sarcophagus, Then I secure the bird a little, Yes, so it's extremely rare to have That's the whole point of discovery. Because often, in museums, we have boxes which are empty, and we have no idea It comes, it comes. SO ? It's related to lots of fabrics, We don't really know. Are Yes, of course, the box could contain one This is what we You grab it underneath, one hand underneath. That's it, it's good. Beforehand, Marie-Francoise has something else Originally, it was to be placed He is very handsome. Oh, there are the texts too, It's magnificent, magnificent. As long as I have not consulted it is very controversial. So, does it Because sometimes there is You can't see it, it's We had it x-rayed at the Louvre. Well, it's Some of these statuettes, in the opened from the back. Inside, slipped a papyrus taken from the Book She embodied, alongside the deceased, They were sometimes The rest of the excavation will show us. what a marvel! But right away, Detailed examination of the Francis runs operations. Funeral furniture I try There you go, it comes by itself. Does n't it look like fishnet? No, it looks like It smells of herbs and resins. It mixes. Because they 2500 years later, Yes, yes, natural products. In any case, this is We don't really know. What's usually there? We don't really know This is the first time in my life intact viscera, made of wood, in the field. I think there are things there, you see. there are hard things underneath. Here, if you show Christiane. Fantastic. One vase and not four. So let's see what's inside. For each viscera, the kidneys, the liver, the So all that together. And then the lungs are stuck. Because the vase is the may be Yes, yes, it is irregular. We know that it is a little ovoid there, right there. So inside, there is a canopic packet There you go, do Canopic package definition? There you go, here's a viscera... I think he didn't take the photo because the viscera is there. You have a little package So. So there is another package. You see, it was molded. We see very clearly that And then there is fabric. And then the fabric was rolled up Finally, we got over it. And then it was closed well And it was put in salt. So two, so two. The third. Yes linen which looks See, There is a liver and there must be You see how it has been reduced over time by salts. As soon as the operation is finished, And one for the head in the tank, of embalming products, bitumen, A mummy was even eviscerated, If you want to weigh 80 kilos, you need reinforcement thus placed in the center of the vault, Marie-Francoise side of the sarcophagus, Last step before opening. As for Cecile, found inside It is made of linen and it is blackened by 12th day of work, today is the big turning point The well which could lead to the entrance to is now consolidated. Its upper walls We can now empty it and know whether Not much hope that this well communicates with the big tomb. Well that's something else. Another grave, another surprise. Either way, Obviously, there will be a discovery to be made. There will be a discovery to be made, But this is completely unexpected. Whereas for us, what we expected was to be able to communicate At the end of the afternoon There they have. They reached seven meters. In a few hours, Archeology is a work of calm So I present to you the shaiman, he is the tea man. and he is the one who distributes tea on Each one gives a pound, And then they work together to have tea for everyone, They take very sweet tea, Because in this country From a certain age. and therefore take in quite large amounts of sugar tVery very hot, very very hot. It's hot. They serve it piping hot. At the end of the afternoon, what Jean-Pierre feared the well passes right next to It goes down three meters further. Jean Pierre, followed by Francis, will take a closer look at this. So there is a not very big room. Oh yes oh there! Oh dear, We can clearly see the mummies. Dramatic twist, it's a new vault. Oh yeah, it's magnificent. The joys of archeology they've only just begun. At the bottom of the first tomb, a passage pierced by looters during the You breathe slowly anyway, we might not have that much oxygen. There are galleries going in every direction. You don't touch the ceiling, She asks that it tumble. Five kilos hurts your head. If it's five kilos, that's fine. If it's 500 tons. That's extraordinary. We will try to move forward. We can't go there. But you see, in the vat, There they, So much for emptying the contents or crushing them. In any case, it shows. Well, but apart from that there, It's better not to go there. Ah look, a huge ceiling tile We're not going that way. 20 minutes later, the labyrinth opens into a huge Here too, looters devastated everything. Did you see that? Look above us, it's empty. Incredible In other words, if we start to empty tough there. We're not going to have any more fun emptying the wells now. So wait, do you find the exit in all these holes? Hold on, Two small pieces of Okay, come on, because it's going to be Very very fine. they really tore up It's incredible how lucky we are We would have found it there. it's Everything is like. Everything is ruined, torn off too. He's strong. After you. First assessment, The tombs and burials little interest. By the way, a shocking detail It's dangerous, it's dangerous because the ceiling is There are plates that are It's always the same. For over 2000 years. The limestone will swell into plates So, if we want to collect we will have to do it We are just going to widen the access, with the minimum risk We're going to see what You saw at one point, Which is placed on a disgusting mummy. In the great room, Ah yes, where there is I thought it was a Yes, yes, Should we follow this path It is now up to Christiane to decide. Start of response the same evening at aperitif. A hotel room serves as an office Everyone meets there around 7 p.m. Jean-Pierre looks back on the I'll show you where the back wall is. All that's left to do is put the damn thing starts there. There's a room here. a succession of We have arrived here, we have arrived sensibly. You are 1m50 south of the well, But what matters to us is under the big gallery. It's weird. Well pen, He can't be underneath otherwise he how much to put You don't know? a little bit below, parallel to that one. And in conclusion, what do we do? Once we have located the well, all the underground galleries If it hadn't been for this empty chimney, we would have closed it right away. No, there are 20 years of work The thing and therefore heard. Jean-Pierre located the dangerous well It's too risky for an expected benefit, too uncertain. The next day, he prepares to go back down. In the meantime, Oh but it's already completely dark. We go down ten meters there. The basket of scientific equipment. Jean-Pierre takes measurements of the path he in order to draw up a by the way a nice surprise Pretty green color A mask. Ah yes, very nice There is a mask, this very pretty mask. I leave with my pilgrim's staff, I go to the back wall Okay, we are now These measurements will allow it to be identified A little more to the right. We're right under the well there. You won't stay too much anyway. It holds, it's a fontis. This is when a cavity the negative. And there, it is this cone which is in front of us. This is what fell, We must have rashly dug a grave. Those who dug Poof, they got everything on their heads. Hop 2m93 I'm going to take the mouth of the well here and I'm going to see the fontis. No, we are at the same time privileged, disappointed, surprised, amazed, frightened us, things that no one will This well, We will fill it, we will do it, but Good turnaround. The place is rather unhealthy. I don't like this passage at all then? Not at all, at all, at all. What a great job you do! Is it frustrating at the same time to imagine is lost? It's a potential. There you have it, we must call it as in the other tombs which have never been opened, You don't have to be bulimic. We have such superb tombs that we opened this well because we believed that this well led at the end We took the wrong tunnel, passes a few tens of centimeters It goes up to ten meters while our gallery is seven meters, So here we go. We had opened it, we we actually had possible communication, We are in one, in a completely incredible dimension, so incredible, even in clay, entirely in clay. This time, the episode of the necropolis barring a new twist. And precisely, Before going back up, Jean-Pierre which still remains in this first vault. Then they can close again. Ramdane and Abdel immediately set to work It is crumbly, it crumbles. New twist of theater. Immediately, Christiane Ziegler descends into the grave. What a surprise. It's splendid, it's splendid. With all these colors preserved. This is the first sarcophagus of this type in Saqqara. But that's archeology. It's moments like that, That's a bit of what They say we come to discover Scientifically, it's very important, but it's also You never know in advance find is much more interesting It will become so when we clear out. Christiane was right. This sarcophagus is only a first glimpse So, a quarter of an hour later. There is a hole. There is no need to panic. it's what ? It's a wooden sarcophagus. Better than this one. A huge sarcophagus, The problem is that both They cross the wall of the vault He will therefore empty this neighboring well in order to free them. As a precaution, the two sarcophagi were under a thick layer of sand. This is the best way to protect them. The excavation is about to experience a new twist. And meanwhile, the work continues. Today, which Marie-Francoise some hopes. Perhaps it is very old, than what has been discovered so far I would like it to be from the old empire, What could we learn? We could learn perhaps embalmed since there are There is very little. But there is one that is not far away on the Causeway But it is extremely rare. And then on the material that the dead which is not the same depending on the era. Right next door, about a hundred meters away, closed to visitors here is the tomb that Christiane Ziegler just mentioned. Nefer and Kahai one of the most beautiful tombs We are inside the part in which the family The vault, which is exceptionally, the mummy of the person who was buried there. This is not the dead body. It is inside a Ancient Kingdom, This is what Unfortunately, it failed. We don't know if we're too disappointed with the high potential This means that we always have We always want to find But that's archeology. You have to be humble. A rudimentary mummy Tomorrow will be another day. Tomorrow again and again. Sarcophagi and mummies. It's the year of sarcophagi of sarcophagi. It's hot. The day after. Indeed, it's Around the sarcophagus of Iahmes. Do n't you have any finer ones? Iahmes It's written on the lid. Very fashionable names in the 7th Iahmes and Psammetichus, who lived in the 26th dynasty It was the custom to name their children with the same name It allows you to date. So it may be after the reign There is little chance. There's a corner of the woods, He annoys me. This one is very beautiful. It is very well bandaged. It's not at all as on the other one. It's not the same time, right? Besides, he has an Look under the strips, and the strips It is very well done! Next step Jewelry and amulets Iahmes will probably never return to the surface. At the top of the well, a stone sarcophagus makes The replica of the sarcophagus will be even more valuable to archaeologists. Nathalie devotes an entire week to a life-size drawing. Drawing which makes it possible to better discern the partially erased details. Once back in France, to study the object. Friday, day off, An errand to do for the construction site. We are in the fabric souk This is very good It's a sedative. No, that's synthetic, use that. It's pretty for a dress, For mummies, you need pure cotton. 1m50 wide 100% Egyptian cotton. For the national mummies, will he give us a price? Okay, okay, 38 38 per meter. ok, ok We got a good discount. We went from 800 to 750. First, it was 760 Fabric for mummies, Answer a few days later, We knit in electric wires. So which one will we take? It's like a mikado, which means that if we take one, We're going to end up buried on the mummy. So you have to think carefully. It's fragile ? The mummy , very fragile. But we're going to pack them like this. It will be a little cleaner. The mummies will be stored at the other end So that you can access the objects and be able to explore the next room. We can easily guess its existence. It's for next year. Lots of things. Too much remains to be done this year. Not to mention what's still going to happen. 13th day of excavations So, who are we still missing? We have just about everyone. You should tighten up a little Catherine, the one next to you needs So she has the basket mender, I don't see it there. I stand aside. Here we go We had to take the photo this after 12 p.m. to Paris, to the Louvre museum. I plan to have lots of drawings of the But it will be done. How long are you leaving? As soon as I turn my back, So they're going to call me, saying Empire, in a vaulted room. In Christiane's absence, new events. Surprising discoveries the course of the project. So the next morning. On the left, the well leads discovered. On the right, the neighboring well It looks pretty good. But there are two days of work. Two good days of But apparently, it's sand, it goes away Only 2 hours later, we came up from the well, pieces of wood and it was unusual. Especially since these are And this is only the beginning. The more we go out, the more fragments appear Little by little, intact pieces emerge from the embankments. A real twist. The team can't believe it. It's really magnificent. It's exactly the same one you have You remember He is very handsome. We are still high up we are waiting for. So we can imagine that underneath, Always more in the end. The problem is that it's going too fast. Not in the sun please. No in tents. Please, it's going to blow. He can't stand wood. This is the continuation of the one over must be removed as quickly as possible Cecile and Sophie go back and forth. Lunch, A police officer suddenly A weapon in evidence. Everyone here knows that some beautiful pieces Until the evening, it won't stop. The triumph of the day. And gradually, over the following days, Entire sarcophagi The problem is that they now have to be packaged You'll have to show We are emergency restorers. It was good because All year round, Work in silence. For storage, Marie-Francoise and Catherine, who both have a practical mind, They are located In Egypt today, With one exception, the palm tree. Low price and specialized labor. In this workshop, manufacturing of lockers. Today is Tuesday our order on Saturday. Order placed, solution We can now Francis predicted it, the best is for last. There's a beautiful mask there. The pieces are.... It's almost like we put them away He is beautiful, he is magnificent. Above all, it is almost intact. That's great. We like puzzles but anyway. The scene of the Last Judgment according to the ancient Egyptians. The sarcophagus is over 2000 years old. A few hours later, the two A few more meters, Forecast immediately denied. Huge blocks of stone build a piano And clearly, We are dealing with a real After the looting of the neighboring necropolis, were undoubtedly brought together there. it is probable that they collected the sarcophagi in good condition from these dozens of vaults, to group them together And after that they made this kind high stone blockage blocking the two galleries. And afterwards, they deposited the fragments of sarcophagi It's really a well-organized it's not made in a hurry, New setback, The stone stopper In the meantime, arrival of the Marie-Francoise is happy. His little idea worked well. 7 a.m. The moment has arrived After a few minutes of work, appearance of the foot box The sarcophagus looks like this, it's there, we do that. So we already know that 30 centimeters which also leaves like that and which must So both were posed So the head is to the east and the feet are to the west. There's something there. There is really something really new. So PSO abbreviation which means Ptah, Sokar or Sankarist and Osiris, Here are three deities merged which is there to guarantee the Renaissance to the deceased Like all the material Nobody behind That, on the other hand, we were waiting for it. The rest of the sarcophagus, It's a bit like a police investigation, In fact, here, we observe, we try to see as many things as possible, to note as to Paris. Actually trying to find the answers Here it's like a crime scene. These are the last gestures. the way we put the sarcophagus, the two ceramics, There is a burial. All of this expresses what happened and how to proceed. He has the bottom There it is. Christiane Francis and Jean-Pierre will wait for him to Now they are oushebtis, literally replacements. They are also called In the afterlife, they serve the deceased and 17th day of work. The weather is getting bad. It's khamsin. It means 50. And it can blow Between a space of time which is 50 days this time. And it's terrible. We have a lot of trouble working. The sand irritates the eyes, The construction site is slowing down, The event is today in the tomb Excavated and studied by Guy. The mummies are now put away. And the day before, which was, just a few days ago Today, it's the turn of its neighbor, We're going to find out what it really looks like. We start with a pretty scene sarcophagus, a little Osiris. Here is a little golden Osiris with a little pharaoh in front of him an offering. And behind it, we will probably find Isis. She's coming. A scene highlighted with gold leaf, like the character's face. Who was he exactly? Mystery of hieroglyphics, indicates its name, as But they are partly hidden We will just have to discover to give him back some semblance of existence. The next day, preparation for the opening and new event on the site. The big boss of is back in Saqqara. All the press You have done a magnificent job. We were here two weeks ago. This room was full of mummies and I could only see the faces You have worked a lot In a few minutes that day, the wind turned into a storm. And the site Tonight, Christiane Ziegler is back. His plane is due to land in Cairo whole team meets with Mohamed, A real feast. potato, onions. One per person. Did you think The women spent the whole day, three of them to stuff and it was a lot of work to do We see them, not I don't know if you will be admitted, but In any case, the women When they receive us And they take pleasure in bringing us serving us and they stay out of It is a gift given to us By taking care of us. wouldn't be able to take care of us as Exceptionally, the hostess 10 p.m., it's over. Tomorrow, a big day ahead. What happened? It was windy yesterday. It must have been a terrible force. There you go, here is an aunt who has been resisting Christiane walks around the site and first stops under the tent where Most are now put Here is the scale. It's incredible, incredible, but we don't have the equivalent at all. We have suits, there are pieces because we the sand. But hey. of Orus are splendid on a turquoise background. Second step, the new discovery. Splendid little sceptres, fantastic little vases and the box with the little The ouhabtis but how many are there in the box? Depending on the era, their number varies. Are there many? The box is full Ah, it's a pleasure to do that, I must say, it's very rare. Shall we make a bet? I would say there are a good 150. I don't know that, more than 50, more than 50. Result: 131 funeral servants intact, and so many fragments. All we have as funerary remains are people but therefore in fact accustomed number of servants and people And they wanted to keep it that way. So the hope was that the life they last for eternity. Ouhabtis puzzle. And meanwhile, in the tomb, Cecile tries to free the statuette. She's stuck. The problem is that the sarcophagus There you go, you have to give up. It's disappointing. Oh no, no, not at all. No, no, On the contrary, We can imagine that even in this entry alone, On the contrary, on the contrary, it is even rather encouraging. And then it will make us dream a little bit looking forward to the next campaign. A little consolidating liquid and we close. Except that new twist. One of the He fears antique thieves. It's very unlikely, but he could Should we therefore remove the statuette at the risk of damaging it, or leave it where it is Delicate, the operation certainly is. It will take more than an hour and a lot They applauded, well done, Cecile is relieved? Now she The face is golden with leaf. It's really the miniaturization Yes, the wig, he has the beard. There is the little ousekh necklace. There you go. A small mattress at the last minute. The statuette emerges from the tomb Cecile aux mains d'or Last twist, of an exceptional excavation campaign In addition to this sarcophagus there is undoubtedly on the lower levels. This will be for next year. The next day, the graves are filled in and the openings of the wells are sealed. The treasures of Saqqara have waited What is an extra year on the scale of eternity?