After coming to Dubai, the biggest task was to find a house for myself. There is an attached washroom. What an awesome view. The houses here are very expensive. Hi everyone, my name is Fraz and I have recently shifted from Bangalore to Dubai. After finding out the rent of the house in Dubai, one thing i realised that it's out of budget.but we had an option there are total seven emirates in the Emirates, Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Ajman, Rasul Khaima, Fujairah, Alkan and Sharjah. Sharjah is right on the border of Dubai and the rent here is also much less than Dubai. So brother, this is the building where we are going to see the flat now. The building is quite good and yes, I'll show you a little bit from here. This view is also Good. it's a 2BHK,There is a maid room on the side here at entrance. And there is an attached washroom here. This is the dining area and on the side of the dining area, there is a kitchen. It is spacious, if you want to call your mother here later, it will be very good.this is a spacious kitchen There is a guest wash room in front. The drawing room is also very spacious and in fact, if we want to set up here, that too can be done very well Let me show you the view from the balcony, what an awesome view it is from here. Look, it is a completely open area. I mean,I find it useless if there's a building in front of us. So here is a completely open area. You can see the sea view in front. Look, it is a small part of a sea. This is a bedroom. There is an attached washroom with a bath tub. A very big mirror is given here. This is for performing ablutions.When you wash your feet while performing ablutions, it is made for that. This is the first bedroom, There are cupboards here. There is a similar kind of view from the bedroom as well. On a very similar pattern, this is the second bedroom. It is exactly the same. And the price of this flat is That is 65000 Dhirams per year. there is a one year bond so If you're leaving the house before one year, you will have to pay two months extra. And there is some security deposit of Rs. 3000 here. So let's see the rest &amp; Let's explore a little more. And you will see a great thing from here that there is a helipad on every building. Let me show you. This is for security reasons. If there is any emergency, all the helipads are for rescue. Bhaiya had a car till now. Now I don't know where the car has gone as we're walking.I am feeling very thirsty too. The sun is very hot and there are not many trees. Now leave all this and focus on the cars. You will see some cars side by side. Again When we enter , the kitchen area is big on the left side, but there is only one washroom here. This is the only washroom. This is a one bedroom apartment. Its area is 900 sq ft. Rent is 36,000. Parking is also 1000 rupees here. There is paid parking. Security is 2000 rupees. We have seen three or four flats here. We will decide the rest and then see. I mean, 2 BHK flats are actually expensive. So, we are going now. So this is the day 2 of house hunting. Yesterday we saw 2 BHK ,3 BHK and few 1 BHK houses. Today we are going to specifically see 1 BHK houses because we have come to know that these houses are very expensive. So, affording 2 BHK is not feasible for us. Toyota Camry run as taxis here. You can see many car's here ,as Mercedes , BMW &amp; others This is a 1BHK apartment,rent is 40000 Here's kitchen on right side,then a spacious drawing room,wardrobe &amp; washroom In this building, I didn't liked anything We had come yesterday also to see 1BHK Today we saw 2 BHK here. So, we are going to a new building. Both 2 BHK and 1 BHK are available Let's see, the looks are a little good, the price is a little high but let's see, if we find something good in terms of looks, we will compromise a little bit on the price, Brother have just brought us to a new building, I think this is that building, Bhaisahab, how many floors are there in it, so this is a 1 BHK apartment, it is much more spacious than the old ones Here on the right side is the kitchen: modular kitchen.there is a separate space for the Laundry, nice, usually what happens here is that the Laundry is given along with the kitchen, there is a little dirt there, but it is separate here, on the left side there is a common washroom and this is a new apartment, this is the main washroom, this is the bedroom and there are cupboards here and the balcony of both the drawing room and the bedroom is attached, the balcony is also quite big, it has a good view, there is an open view from here as well, so here the security is 5000, the rent is 50000, the gym is available and the pool is available parking is also available all the amenities this is 37th floor there is a gym on the top floor let me show you what is the view from here.we are going to see the swimming pool, nice those were a little expensive they were good but now we are going to see a little cheaper flat we talked to another brother, look at the back there is a beautiful car parked there so we have just talked to another broker he is going to show us one BHK which is only for 30000 Dhirams per year there is no light,Let's turn on the flash light this is the view [discussion] okay it is made in old style what is its rent? its 30000. nowadays finding a house anywhere is a very difficult task There are expensive houses, whether in Bangalore or in Sharjah or Dubai, everywhere the houses are very expensive and the other thing is that I just saw two houses, both were in the range but they didn't look very good. I am feeling hungry, let's arrange for something to eat, this is a very big food shop, its name is Shawarman, you get a lot of things here and just look here Shawarma is available &amp; that of three varieties, I didn't get anything veg I looked at the whole menu, there was no veg item, there was nothing like dal rice, but now I will show you, so we got Shawarma + chicken + lots of French fries, very good, i've come here to see a 1BHK apartment , so this is a one BHK apartment, you will get fully furnished sofa etc. are already installed, we will also get TV installed, okay Refrigerator .Buddy, you can also say hello Brother have brought us here to show , there's a separate space for Laundry and this is the bedroom, it is very peaceful, you can easily make our videos here but I am still confused as to where the studio will be set up, the sofa will have to be kept on the side.So the house that I have just seen is a very nice, well maintained house but the thing is that we have less space there, I did not understand how the studio will be set up there but the location was very nice, the location means it was like a well maintained society, it is a bit difficult to find societies here, there are such stand alone buildings, very big, I saw that one society and I am used to living in a society, so we can see , let's think about it once, I mean you should not follow in a rush, road marks, okay, what should I follow, wherever you find a way, go slowly, don't drive so fast, so friend, I liked the society that they showed us yesterday, this is quite a clean area, green area, is a bit difficult here, by the way, We saw more houses online and here, so let's see, we will see a furnished house, after that we will see an unfurnished house, both are one BHK, so this is again a one BHK apartment, it is semi-furnished, meaning there is a stove here, so this is the drawing room, there is just this much space in the drawing room, this is the washing machine inside it, this is the washroom and this is the bedroom, it is very small, meaning all our stuff might not fit in it, the only problem is this,the wardrobe everything is fine, the rent is also fine, I talked a bit and got it done for Rs 37,000 per annum. But again this is too small for our setup, so we are coming back after seeing the flat, we are going to see the second flat whose area is a little bigger and this is brother's car, so friend, we have finalized this flat because its view is very good, As soon as we enter, there is a drawing room in front and on this side is our first bedroom. On the right side, this is the first bedroom with an almirah. And there is no special view from its window. This is the kitchen. The view from the window of the kitchen is very good. It is in front and this is the second bedroom. This is the second bedroom. The same view is good from here and the almirah is here as well. Hello, this is the washroom. So, I have got a good house. The money is a little more but it is okay. I mean, someone told me that the house should be such that the decoration of the house should be such that one feels like going home. One feels that one can do the work properly. &amp; This is Sunset's view If There was no building in the middle,it would be fun. Here, you will see a lot of people from Pakistan and India, specifically in Sharjah. I thought this in the beginning. the people of India and Pakistan have established here. So this is what I was talking about. You can do running here in the morning, it is very close to your house, it is walkable, so I can wake up early in the morning, which is a little impossible, but I will try. Now seeing such a view also brings a little motivation, so let's see what routine we follow now