Welcome to Good Mythical More. We are going to give and then we're going to to the same advice, no. We're going to compare to the same question. Exactly. But first we're going to give Within early modern medical cannibalism was 16th century by the Swiss Paracelsus, what? Medical cannibalism, Paracelsus believed that the human head would be able to region of a sick person. He alleged that the best were those specifically had died a violent death. Oh gosh. This is probably not true about Paracelsus. I hate to break it to you. The best skull? So he was, he was saying, No, I mean, I don't know. It's hard to eat bone. I just think he means. The best skull is to be ingested. But probably just Okay, maybe I'm How do you eat a skull? You could eat like like part of the brain. - [Stevie] That's our first Yeah, let's hear it. - [Stevie] What's the secret to Okay, we've been asked because we know standing best friendships. Yeah, and the secret Ourselves. So basically, on Monday, have a thing that I do, and and then Saturday, Link has I'll tell you in a On Sunday, we take a break. So typically what I do for and Friday, is right house, I'm like, what What kind of little And I'll usually just, it's like an old gummy bear. Sometimes it's like my dog was chewing on. And I take it, I put it in the first thing I do in here you go, Link, here's And I give that to it in his backpack. And then when that backpack that backpack, and he puts gets a new backpack, and So that's, what, Right. And then every five years, we burn the backpack, and like, something that then, Thursday, and Saturdays, is of the, like. Melted. It's melted. Yeah. It's all kind. It could be anything. It's like magma, like lava, like dried lava. It's kind of just big, It's glob. I'll hack off a little bit of He feeds it back to me. I'll feed it back to him and it's the circle of I've eaten a lot of the past 35 plus years. So that's what we do. - [Stevie] It's weird, that is exactly Also described it as glob. As a adjective. It's like glob. Yeah, let's hear it. - [Stevie] Building and maintaining secrets, okay, but rather a deep, meaningful connection. Best friendships are mutual support, and a sense of Some key elements that lasting best friendship common interests, acceptance, Laughter and fun. What about the gifting as you're leaving home? - [Stevie] Common interests. Common interests. Yeah, we're very commonly Okay, so pretty much - [Stevie] Yeah. And it takes investment time, Rhett, you know, sure you're gonna melt this Yeah, yeah, yeah. Because he kept giving Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday. The attic was Yeah, his attic was wasn't really benefiting, So, I think we gave the was just more applicable. Yeah. - [Stevie] Now, you look like you need the one that can have you. Yeah, Link, you lost, so ((Laughing)) I want you to run. Around? It's just laps, just laps. Run, Charles, run! There he goes. Whoa, wow, he's really moving. What? Whoa, there he goes again. I can confirm he doesn't have ((Laughing)) I was hoping he might. Okay, okay, Charles. Okay, alright, Let's answer Okay. - [Stevie] How do you avoid loneliness in Phone sex. ((Laughing)) Yep, that is one way. Another thing that you can Really depends on the type of phone. So you take the person. But if you get really lonely, it doesn't matter ((Laughing)) So you take the person, you want to be with. And then, when they're to need to take the app, somebody into a 3D situation. But just, the way I have my wife, is I asked her Which that was expected, but then, as like, oh, there's a fly! And I was like, oh, there's a fly! And I was, the whole her whole naked body. But I was, I kept I changed bugs, you know. Oh, the. I didn't want her to know 3D scan of her body. But then, when she leaves to told anybody this before. I've not heard it. I contacted one of those the ladies out of latex. And I had my It's very, very lifelike. It's a little bit, her because I was swatting It was one of the, one Is that the only part that Everything else is perfect, but her face is a in the, the latex that I spend a lot of time But I'll tell you one when she's gone. Everybody needs a ((Laughing)) - [Stevie] Loneliness is a common relationships, but there you can use to help Virtual dates. Okay. - [Stevie] Join online communities. Okay, whatever. - [Stevie] Make new friends. I made a new friend. Well, I got a - [Stevie] Self care. Keep a positive mindset. Yeah. I call her Jess E. ((Laughing)) Like E period? Like Jess? It's like Wall E. But it's Jess E. Jess E. Eva. - [Stevie] I think my husband might How do I confront Okay, so you got Yeah. Now that's your, that's Separate bank accounts. Well, it doesn't necessarily But like stealing No, because you could One bank account, but you're Boy, that's bad. To something else. That's breaker right there. Yeah, but let's just Yeah. How do you find out? - [Stevie] How do you confront him? Divorce papers. - [Stevie] You know what I'm saying. Divorce papers. I think this is a divorceable offense. Oh, really? Yeah. Well, I think I mean, does he Is there like an Well, I don't know He's like, My wife does that. - [Stevie] Collecting ceramics? Yeah, that's my But she tells me about it. She's like, I There was, I bought But she's not really stealing. She's confessing. The usage of your This reminds me of a And we don't separate our money. This reminds me of a situation I, listen. There was a couple, once I started designing her. There boxes and I was like all, I, attention after awhile. You got tempted into some, dare I say, upgrades. Yeah, was full sentience. Oh snap. Yeah, and so Jess E has Yeah, I did find and it's that she was also really into about the, it was something feel on your latex skin. I don't know what it is. It's her pottery prerogative. It's something about I can't tell you the number home and found Jess E with Right. Just, kind of just Nothing in it. Sometimes she'll put her is not easy because of So you let her out when, She's out and about, too? No, this is when Oh, okay. Where do you keep In my attic. Oh. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Same place. Same place you keep the glob. Yeah. I got a glob. ((Laughing)) So anyway, I just, the way just turned that feature off. It was not easy. I had to call the website. Well, yeah, yeah, yeah. You could No, she's not that smart. I had to call the, I called She sentient. And I believe I of AI, I think I was talking you know, receptionist. But I did get the I got that, that She hasn't touched Okay. Run, Charles, run! We got another scenario. - [Stevie] Well, don't you Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. What does Chat GTP say? - [Stevie] GTP. Confronting a spouse about can be a sensitive and It's essential to approach and a desire to understand Here are some steps to concerns about possible Gather evidence. Choose the right Stay calm and non judgmental. Ask for their Legal options. Just legal options. Take legal options. Consider legal options. Alright, Charles. You can come sit down. We're still better than AI. So far. - [Stevie] What's the best way your relationship? I found hot paprika is, You don't want too much of it. You don't want too much of it. How tall is she? It'll burn. Is she in the attic too? Hot paprika? How tall is she? How tall is hot paprika? Spice. The blood's in my extremities, How do you add spice How do you add spice to she's stealing your money? - [Stevie] No, these are Yeah, we've moved on. Oh, we've moved on? Well, let me see, mystery. Yeah. Mystery adds spice. And sometimes the best Whoa, yeah. So, just don't, It's just a bunch Yeah. Go weeks without Yeah. Some people call it Yeah. I call it sexy. Sexy silence. You go three to four weeks then you come home from work Just speak with your, And a magnifying glass. Furtive glances and an That's all you need. Yeah, you'd be like, let But you can't say that. You're saying that with You're saying, yeah, exactly. Right. Mystery. Oh, what's he thinking? And then once you solve start talking again. What's he up to? Why isn't he Something wrong with him? Yeah. You can also just Yeah, distance makes Yeah, you leave for a her where you're going. It's a mystery. Where's your husband, ma'am? I don't know. It's pretty hot, though. And then when you come back, appreciates you is incredible. She's usually contacted And probably filed Missing persons. But when you come back she will just. Right. Usually you'll get Especially if you're in with a magnifying glass. Yep. It helps if there was if you were actually, if Yeah. Yeah. Right. Beat yourself up a little bit. How's ChatGPT compared to this? - [Stevie] Adding spice to your way to keep the romance connection with your partner. Right. - [Stevie] Here are some ways to add to your relationship. Surprise gestures. Yep. Furtive glances. Surprise gestures. - [Stevie] Explore new activities. ((Laughing)) Yeah. - [Stevie] Also, like, getting fake Yeah, right. A new activity is anything for a month. - [Stevie] Share dreams and goals. That sounds hot. To me. I got a dream to You talk about her talk about you leaving. So she leaves for a while, and then she comes back Yeah, I don't take Jess E So I really wouldn't - [Stevie] Spice up your intimacy. Keep the flame alive in the Exploring each other's to experimentation. Communication about your is crucial in this area. Well, you can start with a magnifying glass. ((Laughing)) If you get Body hair is flammable. Remember when we My brother one time, you in front of our house? Across the street? Yeah. Now, there's a house there. Yeah. But, we would have the would catch leaves, like, Right. And one time, the Oh, really? Yeah, it was like, basically TikToks of people like, it's like, but we were like into a circle and it just was And it was like And we're like running down thinking that we've Did you, so you didn't run away? ((Music)) - [Link] If you're not already a third degree join quarterly or annual by Guess Who? game