Light is so much stranger than you might think. the universe delivering energy from one place to plants, and thus to our planet generally. And yet, for a source of energy that has light is surprisingly difficult to understand. but when scientists tried to look at light No, I don't mean that they started staring into experiments in the last 200 hundred years to be and what light is are actually two different light behaves differently when you're not What is the true nature of light? Why is it And what does it say about how the universe watching Astrum, and in today's video it's time we Let's begin with the basics. What is light? In light was made up of tiny little particles that years later - a man named Thomas Young discovered particle-like. He proved this using an important He set up a source of light, and shone it noticed that rather than getting two bands of striped pattern was forming. This was known as proof that light had been travelling as a When waves travel, they oscillate up and down. But space at the same time, you get something known a rubber duck sitting on the surface. Two waves the duck up at the exact same time the other wave waves are of the same magnitude and are perfectly and the duck would not move at all. This is called both tried to raise the duck up at the same time, known as constructive interference. Because waves each other will start to both constructively Here are two waves in water. See these lines? cancelling each other out: This is the effect we As the light from one slit propagates, it cancels creating the interference pattern that Young Light was a wave, and not a particle. Except, the eye. Let's fast forward another 100 years, puzzled by something known as the photoelectric on a metal surface, electron-like particles were electrons in the metal were getting knocked off it Imagine it like fruit on a tree. If you pull the amount of energy. Once the energy is greater the branch, the fruit pops off. This was happening hit an electron and gave it enough energy to However, what surprised scientists was that they had expected the electrons to be knocked tree harder, it would come off faster. More However, this did not appear to be the case. increased the velocity of the departing electrons. departing electrons' velocity at all, but did This was a bit of a puzzler. Albert He deduced that light must be travelling in of them - increasing the frequency - was the only He called these packets photons, and later earned more like a particle again. Or both a wave and a full picture. To be honest, we aren't completely we have more results that are contradictory. Armed with the knowledge of photons, physicists experiment. Experimental techniques had improved emit a single photon of light at a time. So, This time, only a single photon would be sent When this was done, the detector registered the light was behaving like a particle again. But previous version of the experiment? Scientists one at a time, and plotted the results on the really strange. Once again, the detector started one at a time. But bafflingly, the arriving It was the interference pattern. The But strangely enough, this was occurring only Somehow, the single photon - which was leaving at its destination as a particle - was apparently enough to then interfere with itself If light was just a particle, then when it went You would see only two blobs of light - one and one for particles that went through the other. its multiple lines of light, disproving that. up the experiment, but this time with two more observe whether it was indeed passing through both it stopped creating an interference And from this, scientists began to realise To be clear, it didn't matter whether it The moment light was interacted with in some we can detect light, there's no other way to than if it hadn't been detected at all. It was universe asked it the question of where exactly to relax into something a little more nebulous. actually is more like a wave of probability, Any time it was asked where it was, it confidently point on the detector, it WAS NOT at any other light seems to be travelling in all directions at If you ran the experiment multiple times, you that it was more likely to be on the bands of the gaps. But any time a single photon of light was This is highlighted through something Consider for a moment a pair of polarising of light that can pass through them; usually by wavelength of light. They work by being formed across the lens. Any light that oscillates in the that is perpendicular to the chains can pass occurs when a single photon is passed through In this case, you don't get half a photon going of the oscillation that is parallel to the lines Instead, the photon "snaps" into either the completely absorbed, or passes through entirely to match what it would have had to have been photon wasn't this orientation all along? Because When you place a second lens behind the provided the two polarisations are perpendicular lens 90 degrees compared to the first one. Any chance of getting through the second, like trying As a result, we only see black. But add a between the other two, and bizarrely light This may seem counter-intuitive - how does adding makes it through? But this result actually rules orientation. It must be snapping into focus at to see if it was the right orientation all along (a 50% chance), it only did so because it was polarisation. Which means once it reaches the that's diagonal. So, once again there is It rolls its quantum dice again, and once again through this hurdle too, then it again snaps orientation all along (which it obviously wasn't). relative to the third lens, meaning that it Of course, some photons do not make it through about 12.5% of them make it. But that's more than you had only two lenses. Light likes to behave in snaps to a discrete value when observed. And about a wave, there is no reason why you couldn't and again an infinite number of times and still And yet it seems that down on a low enough quantum You can't have half a photon, or even one and a instead snaps to one or the other nearest integer, Otherwise, it's quite content to exist like a wave as it travels along, before jumping What is going on here? This is The closest comparison we have to it is something only a certain number of waves can exist. On a or more, but never any number that isn't in the same way. Perhaps something pinches the down - although what this might be, and what Fundamentally, though, perhaps the craziest thing light. Although we've focused on light behaving all particles of matter do the same. Light is matter are linked. Particles of matter - atoms and wavelengths. Electrons are just as quantifiable are. We are apparently all driven by probability, So, what is everything truly made that causes it to behave in the way that of reality? Why is the universe behaving And what does it imply to think that What this all means is anyone's guess. The person time. But for now, all we can say is that when playing dice. You and the world around you might Sometimes when I learn about complex topics I'm listening to people speaking in another video - might not be able to help me with that, to people speak in another language. Babbel is one and can help you start speaking a new language difference. I should know - I met my wife abroad, Babbel teaches you real-world conversations, So, if you want to learn a language this try out Babbel to learn your danke's from subscription if you click my link in Thanks for watching. If you liked this video, universe. A big thanks to my patrons and support too and get a host of perks, check the