What was supposed to be a dream vacation travelers in Mexico were robbed, murdered, And this isn't just a story. It actually in May 2024, right in the heart of Mexico. hotspots that make you think 'obviously,' most dangerous countries for Americans. Visit them Since we've already mentioned Now, a question might arise straight away dangerous countries for Americans to and often portrayed as paradise for tourists? to Mexico to enjoy the crystal-clear turquoise ruins in Tulum, and visit Mexico City, Well, Mexico is quite a unique entry on our levels set by the U.S. State Department. You across different states. The two popular tourist state, visited by over 20 million tourists in administered area, this state falls under "Level To." This refers to higher than normal levels of also applies to these 15 other Mexican states. which suggests travelers may encounter serious areas of terrorism or gang threats or disasters. The Level 3 travel advisory has Baja California, where the incident described Chihuahua Guanajuato Morelos Then there are six Mexican states you shouldn't a "Level 4: Do Not Travel To" warning, which nuclear terrorism threats, ongoing rebellions, Government has limited or no ability to help you Colima state Michoacan Tamaulipas By contrast, only Campeche and "Level 1: Exercise Normal Precautions." it such a complex tourist destination? Despite its allure, Mexico is plagued by Carjacking. Robbery. You name a violent crime, in Mexico. According to the ACLED Conflict world based on how violent it is, Mexico is by with more than 30,000 homicides for the of the nearly 112,000 people reported missing about 60 people going missing every day. and popular travel destination like Cancun doesn't many as four cartels operating in the greater the Gulf Cartel, and the Grupo Regional. That members of the absolutely terrifying Los Zetas. Only the most vicious cartel in Mexican history, including the second San Fernando Massacre people over the course of two days. "safer" Mexican states, it's crucial to stay be best to follow the guidelines the U.S. State Avoid traveling between cities after dark. Exercise increased caution when visiting Be extra vigilant when visiting banks and ATMs. including expensive jewelry and watches. destination entirely! Because Mexico is are more grim and gruesome from here. So let's Haiti. a somewhat shocking revelation, as Haiti is also all, what's not to love? The Caribbean beaches. sure the more than 230 U.S. citizens who had to be in March of 2024 could add quite a few items Let's break this list down. advises American citizens not to travel to violent crime, and a poor healthcare system. Worst alarming each passing year. From 2021 to 2023 in the country nearly doubled. That's why it involving these gangs increased by 60% in the referring to armed confrontations, assaults, and already been 166 separate events of these kinds, American citizens, in particular, most commonly part? These tourists often barely get a chance to attacked. The robbers often linger around the waiting for foreigners to arrive. Once they spot perfect opportunity to strike, often severely you might think that traveling in a larger group larger groups aren't immune. In fact, they might Well, it's simple math. The more tourists, the Haitian gang 400 Mawozo, the largest in the from a tourist bus back in 2022 just outside the 17 Christian missionaries from the U.S. and Canada million for their release. $1 million each. police just might. Political violence has of events taking place in the country every 100 clashes with law enforcement, 29 of which So, that's civil unrest and violent crime. But Well, as if everything we've told you so far from the first modern large-scale outbreak be beaten ages ago. Between October 2022 and April as many as 82,885 people were suspected to have Public Health and Population. A little over 80,000 But while gangs present a continuing threat, at have it out for you. That same terrifying Afghanistan's perilous landscape makes Let's get ahead of a seemingly obvious given its tumultuous history with the U.S.? Well, travelers who are drawn to Afghanistan's and the desire to experience this complex "It is just raw. You don't get much rawer you want to see real life." It seems that as the number of foreign tourists actually But let us be clear - you shouldn't be part Why? There's terrorism, with dozens of major terrorist to many, the country is even run by a terrorist the Taliban officials might say they support are nothing more than a veneer over a regime and a pervasive threat to any foreign presence. Afghanistan? For one, you can get wrongfully laws like a group of foreign citizens was in While in detention, you would have limited or be subjected to physical abuse. The worst part? you since the Taliban don't allow welfare checks you'll be detained, not knowing why, at the mercy of a regime with no regard for your If this isn't enough to make your hair stand on just do the trick. For every 100,000 people in 2024. That's a crime rate that places Afghanistan world, according to the Economic Times- only Yemen. Yemen has also made it on our list, with a but more on that later. For now, let's discuss might affect you the most. If you've been you probably already know the answer. Since 2021, when the U.S. Embassy in Kabul much been back in the hostage business. with the Taliban using kidnappings I know it's sounding pretty bad so way worse. Back in the Americas, another US In Venezuela, you'll find nothing but trouble. Civil unrest. Wrongful detention. These are in what the World Population Review has with a crime index rating of 82.1. Given how high the selection of crimes committed in Venezuela on Kidnapping. Carjacking. And the list could go The worst part is that as many as 98% of these fond of justice, accountability, and safety, However, out of all the threats that should is undoubtedly No. 1 at the moment. After Nicolas his third consecutive six-year term under highly has once again erupted in the country. One-third marred with violence, with at least 25 people and more than 2,400 arrested. Not to mention, the authorities could launch a wider crackdown on figure alone, it's obvious that the country's lethal violence after exhausting methods like But let's say you stay away from the states demonstrations are taking place. Will you then rich cultural sites Venezuela has to offer? Sadly, pervasive. Those beautiful beaches? They're opportunistic kidnappers. That vibrant nightlife? of violence. No matter how far you try to escape And even if you briefly escape it, you likely water, or medicine--as shortages of these vital The same, and even more, can be said for Now, although Yemen is overflowing breathtaking landscapes, and ancient ruins, travel list. And let us tell you why traveling The U.S. hasn't had an operating embassy whatever happens to you as a tourist in devices. So what can actually happen to you? factors that the U.S. State Department uses as many as six are present in Yemen. civil unrest, health risks, kidnapping, armed the last factor--landmines--is new to our to an already catastrophic situation. The the armed Islamist group that controls most of at least 582 people were killed or wounded by Now, if the prospect of having to watch make you think twice, the rest of Yemen is currently ranked at 23rd in the world one of the places on the planet with the most paints an even worse picture, ranking Yemen as the terrorist activities, such a high ranking mostly numerous abductions and forced disappearances, and to the last factor, as many as four million which is about 12% of Yemen's population. The Al Jawh Al Hudaydah (containing the port Armanat al Asimah Look at a map of Yemen showing all the provinces, country untouched by chaos. And as far as most aren't exactly a match made in heaven. which is a less often discussed Well, chaos and death reigns supreme. In 2023 Burkina Faso as a result of clashes between clashes, together with violence linked to al-Qaeda also led to the displacement of over two million seeking refuge from a nation consumed by of thousands of people are desperately fleeing If you do dare however, the U.S. State Department crime, and kidnapping. Across all three threats, Not your hotel. Not restaurants. Places customs offices, or military posts. Terrorists about specific regions, the most alarming the Kossi and Sourou provinces in the Boucle in the Hauts Bassins region, the Loroum province in the Center-East region, where the government Of course, for tourists, kidnapping remains the the entire Burkina Faso. In May 2019, a free four international hostages who had been Among them was an American woman in her 60s, who Perhaps a sliver of hope, as a similar fate next country on our list--Myanmar--as the widespread threats in the country. is still an incredibly violent country. In fact, according to the ACLED Conflict Index, behind only from the highest number of non-state armed them. The worst part? They are everywhere! In the whether you're trekking through the country's what remains of its urban centers, you could be battles are the single most common instances of there were 288 of them, which is the lowest number with as many as 385 battles taking place across violence include Rakhine , Sagaing , and the Myanmar population, which is roughly 22.8 country. So, what are the chances you, as a As a traveler in Myanmar, you stand little chance engulfs the nation. With nearly half of the your odds of encountering a clash or skirmish is not just a backdrop but an ever-present destinations you could choose. A destination where the highest conflict-related toll after Ukraine might not hear about the situation in Myanmar and Israel-Hamas wars, but this figure alone Now, let's be honest. The last few countries to most travelers, especially when compared to it might be a little more divisive. Well, some U.S. citizens won't need any reports will have a harder time, as this is undoubtedly making it an alluring mystery. Now, no violent clashes, crimes, or civil unrest The reason why traveling to North Korea isn't the century--is "the continuing serious of U.S. nationals." In fact, this risk is so isn't valid for travel "to, in, or through" which is only reserved for national interests. been U.S. citizens who traveled to North zeal or enticed by the cryptic allure of a highly their visits almost never ended well. Kenneth Bae, was sentenced to 15 years in prison in 2012 for after two years. Matthew Miller, who wanted to was sentenced to six years of hard labor under a 22-year-old student at the time, had it the sentenced to 15 years of hard labor for allegedly that's not even the worst part. After 17 months home in a vegetative state, where he soon died. thing loud and clear: traveling isn't worth it under any circumstances. we'll travel to Europe for the first time. Now, relatively safe and stable region compared to until February 24, 2022. However, Ukraine isn't as avoiding traveling to a country brutal war is a given. That same reason But the two countries that did make the list They just stand on the opposite side of the Since the war in Ukraine started, Belarus has serving as a staging point for the war. So, the Russian military forces looking for the best reports are to be trusted, you can also find has allegedly started placing them in Belarus Not the company you want to find yourself in! of the equation, Belarus isn't exactly a prime remains under a repressive regime, with human The government, led by President Alexander its crackdown on dissent, suppression of free Tens of thousands of individuals, U.S. citizens years for these very reasons. Travel to Belarus as on the receiving end of the regime's harsh influence. Measures that are handed out pretty in Minsk halted operations in February 2022, Speaking of being all alone in this world, we've Russia. considers the U.S. its No. 1 enemy and actively world order is reason enough for most U.S. we get it! There's the awe-inspiring Saint its fairytale-like architecture. Then, there's of the largest and most prestigious art museums of art and artifacts. For the adventurers, "Pearl of Siberia," which offers breathtaking world's deepest and oldest freshwater lakes. there's even more ugliness. tensions and internal instability, U.S. wrongful detention by authorities. Recent reports of local laws and denial of consular access to are at least a dozen U.S. citizens held in Russian charges range from drug possessions and theft them were released in the historic prisoner swap this in no way alleviates the ongoing risks and Simply put, every measure that the Russian abundantly clear - it sees all Americans as operations outside Moscow, severely limiting citizens. Additionally, U.S. credit and debit and even commercial flight options are limited. threat. Since the coordinated terrorist attack in Hall music venue in Moscow Oblast, which killed civilians remains high. As the Moscow attack has anywhere - in markets, transport hubs, and other due to all the reasons mentioned above - it's But be advised - this list is in no way countries with the bone-chilling "Level 4: Do Not Iran, Bangladesh, Libya, Lebanon, Somalia, Syria, Ukraine, and Sudan. In total, that's There are even countries with lower travel Reconsider Travel" advisory, that are still it or not, in 2024 alone, there has been one death dubbed the "second-coolest city in So needless to say, no matter where If this video caught your interest, feel country that destroyed its gangs, Thanks for watching, and as