Class, teacher's gotta bit of a hangover. I... I can't do it today, so we're gonna watch a mooooovie! Let me just whip out the ol' Filmosound, here... [projector whirrs to life, and muffled speech is heard coming from it] This is a Bell &amp; Howell 16mm film projector. As you might have guessed from its name Filmosound, plus the fact that it has a volume and tone control, plus the fact that sound is coming from it, this thing is not only capable of recreating the illusion of movement through rapidly projecting a series of still images onto a screen, but it can also play a soundtrack synchronized with that moving imagery Just like the movies in a theater! But where is that sound coming from? Film is an optical medium, and doesn't sound come only on discs or magnetic tape? Well Jimmy, it's time we learned a littlebit about sound on film. The 16mm film that this projects was a very As a matter of fact it's still used in some production environments. Sitting between the cheap-but-limited 8mm film used for home movies and the expensive-but-highly-detailed 35mm film used in Hollywood, 16mm found widespread use where that middle-ground was appropriate such as for television productions, industrial and educational films, and the like. But, as ever, exceptions abound and plenty of television productions were shot on 35mm film so there are no hard and fast rules here. *slurp* Looking at the film itself we can see a series of images in the center, and an Audacity waveform on the other. That's... interesting. I wonder if that's the soundtrack. It is. But before we get to how the projector reads that, we should probably talk a little bit Because that itself is pretty fascinating. The basics are pretty straightforward. Obviously the projector shines a bright light through the film so that a lens can throw a big blown-up image of that film at a screen, and it'll just show one image after the other real fast and boom - But be warned. It might be tempting to simply move the film But try that and you'll be disappointed. Instead of seeing anything coherent on the screen, To actually see anything, every image on the and that's why projectors like this are elaborate mechanical contraptions [that trademark projector noise] Here, let's look behind the lens. This part is known as the film gate and it's absolutely critical. The lamp and its condensing lens blasts light through this hole and when the projection lens is in place To the left of the light hole are three metal fingers. This is the film advance mechanism, known as the shuttle, and those fingers engage with the sprocket holes on the film. If I slowly turn the projector mechanism by hand, you'll see that these fingers repeatedly stick out, move down, then retract and move back up. An awful lot like the feed dog on a sewing machine. With the help of this pressure plate to provide a bit of friction, the result is a stepped, rather than continuous, film motion. Every frame of film is held stationary so it can be projected clearly, and after a small fraction of a second the film is quickly advanced to the next frame. To keep you from seeing that movement, a rotating shutter synchronized with the mechanism blocks out the lamp's light while the film is in motion. Once the next frame is in position and the film has stopped, In a motion picture camera, the same mechanism is used - however in that case, the film is collecting light from a lens to capture photographic images, and the shutter not only prevents it from getting exposed while advancing to the next frame but also can change the length of time it is exposed through varying the size of the opening on the shutter - and that's why they use &quot;shutter angle&quot; in the movie business Anyway, in a projector the constant opening and closing of that shutter Early on this was very noticeable and the frantic flicker on the silver screen fun fact. Later projectors, in an effort to make this less noticeable, Although the frame rate is still 24 frames per second, meaning that the image actually flashes 72 times per second, Since the film can only move when the shutter is blocking the light, and that happens three times per frame, this means that the film advance movement happens or 1/144th of a second. Or one grossth of a second. That means the film advance mechanism is yanking the film down... real fast. Now, when you actually do the math it works out to that fast but still, that's pretty stressful on the film. And to help with that, the film follows an elaborate path through a pair of rotating sprockets that are, again, mechanically linked to the film advance and shutter. Threading this thing is... a pain and involves slipping the film over this sprocket, down through the film gate, then up over this second sprocket, around this mysterious thing, then back under that second sprocket, before finally taking a spin around these roller guides on its way to the take-up reel. After it's all threaded you close in these little film guides and pray. I've only messed this up several times! Anyway, the sprockets advance the film smoothly where the film just sorta hangs loose. These are there to provide some slack before and after the gate If you forget to leave this slack there when threading, congratulations you've just chewed up some film! But when threaded correctly and operating, The first sprocket steadily pulls film from the supply reel, maintaining a few frames of slack as the film turns downward to pass through the gate. There it is repeatedly advanced one frame at a time, and between movements After it exits the gate at the bottom, another short length of slack is maintained moving at the same exact speed as the first, Looking at the transition space between the It comes across better in-person, in fact it's almost freaky in-person, but you'll notice that near the sprocket the film is just a blur. It's moving smoothly so you can't focus on any of the images it contains. As it gets closer to the gate, though, and right near the gate you can actually see motion in the imagery on the film. It appears upside-down because the lens flips it during projection. You can see the same thing as it exits the gate, but it becomes a blur again Now, if this were a silent projector this would be the end of its job - the film could simply go straight to a take-up reel after this point. But this ain't no silent projector, now is it? No it's not. But before I explain the sound this thing reproduces, I think it's important that we go over how flicks became talkies. The technologies of sound reproduction and the motion picture We knew how to capture and reproduce sound with phonograph records, and we knew how to make movies to be projected in a theater. It seemed pretty obvious that these two technologies should be connected, but there were two big problems. The first was that early acoustic sound reproduction wasn't suitable for the large audiences you'd find in a theater. The devices of the time simply weren't loud enough But the second and arguably bigger problem was sound synchronization. That would prove tricky. Recording sound and filming action at the same time wasn't a difficult concept. In fact, people were trying to make talking movies happen for about as long as movies and talking machines coexisted, Every time you were finished shooting you were left with two separate recordings: one visual, one sound. Playing them back together wasn't exactly rocket surgery, but for a convincing experience, and crucially neither one could drift from the other Otherwise, y'know, Singin' in the Rain, By the 1920's electronic sound amplification and that solved the volume problem. But we still had the synchronization problem. Some early sound films did use phonograph including the technically first feature-length talkie The Jazz Singer. These systems involved mechanical interlocks but it required projectionists to carefully align each device and was susceptible to a bumped record player But what if the sound could be stored on the film itself? Putting both visuals and audio onto the same but how could we do that? Magnetic tape won't be invented until 1928 and besides that would be complicated to manufacture. You'd have to, like, bond this theoretical Now film works by blocking light in specific parts to make an image - what if we used that concept to store sound? Great idea, several people in 1919. In a classic case of contrived collaboration, Lee de Forest - who you may recognize as an electronics pioneer would work with Theodore Case and Earl I Sponable building on earlier work in optical sound transmission. See, we had already learned that we could modulate light to carry sound - in fact Alexander Graham Bell, the telephone guy, had demonstrated this in 1880. That concept was then used by the navy.... and fast forward to 1919 and de Forest is granted a patent which uses the photographic properties You might have noticed that 1919 was before 1927. Yes, in an odd twist, sound-on-film predates synchronized sound-on-disc by... well it kinda does and kinda doesn't. Hollywood for whatever reason was much more enamored with discs, that is once they were finally convinced talkies might just be more than a fad, and that's why the Jazz Singer used the Vitaphone system, just not in Hollywood. Anyway, glossing over a ton of history, let's get on with it. This projector uses essentially the same sound-on-film In fact, from the 1930's and into the 1990's A long, long time ago I showed you what the film looks like. Along the edge opposite the sprocket holes is the soundtrack and its resemblance to the waveforms you might see This is a physical representation of an audio signal, and thanks to the fact that the film moves, You might have thought that this projector has but one lamp: that will light up the screen But when you switch on the audio amplifier, you'll discover that there is in fact a second one. That one's not important though, Wait a minute though and you will find a third lamp lighting up this little red dot. This is the exciting one. This lamp is called the exciter and its job is to shine a light through the film's soundtrack. That mysterious thing I mentioned during the and when threaded the soundtrack on the film lies that will generate a voltage or maybe current proportional to how much light hits it. I'd be more specific but the technologies and I couldn't tell you if this is a photodiode It doesn't really matter, though, the specific specifics aren't important, what is important is that the light sensor, will generate a signal which we can amplify. The light sensor lives here, tucked behind this large silver drum thing. The large silver drum thing, called the sound drum, serves a similar function to the capstan in a tape recorder, It's a little different as it's not powered, but inside the projector we find a large flywheel that the drum attaches to. Like a tape recorder's capstan, the rotating mass of the flywheel smooths out any small variances in film speed that would be audible as flutter - and since everything in here is driven by mechanically-locked gear trains, while the motion of the sprockets might look smooth, When threaded properly, these spring-loaded rollers put tension on the film and once the drum is up to speed they'll just sort of float up and down as needed. In essence, the floating rollers constantly absorb the tiny bits of slack introduced by the slightly jittery turning of the sprocket, and the inertia of the drum keeps the film moving as smoothly as possible This is by far the most fiddly part of the threading process on this projector and I hate it! You need there to be enough tension on the film which means you kinda have to slip the film in the top section of the sprocket, and then keep constant tension on it as you slip it under the bottom half of the sprocket and the film engages with the teeth. You only have about one film frame of tolerance, here, and if there's enough slack that those rollers don't ride on the film or just won't come through at all. Now, to be clear, not every projector works like this one does - this is an older and relatively simple projector, Newer and fancier units featured automatic Anyway, now that we have a way to make the film move smooth as butter, we're done, right? Well, not quite. Simply shining light through the soundtrack The sound signal on the film is, in this case, The width of the clear sections corresponds to the signal amplitude - more clear area means more light will pass through the film And of course that varies along the length of the film - combine the changing width and linear movement of the film and you've got an amplitude that changes with time - just like sound pressures do in the real world. But in order to reproduce that signal with any degree of fidelity, we need the sensor to be able to discern rapid changes in amplitude To do this, the exciter lamp shines through a slot and lens That literally narrows the area being scanned which makes the signal we receive more precise and allows us to recreate the nuances of the waveform. And the fidelity that's possible here is frankly not bad, especially considering that this is 16mm film Here are some samples taken from this projector. [Narrator] [sad bagpipe toot] [normal bagpipes] Note that 35mm film, which is what you'd be seeing in a commercial theater, With more than twice the speed, and the fidelity is greatly improved. Still, though, the sound on 16mm is perfectly acceptable - [Narrator with acoustic guitar in background] Bring the ball in front of your chest, then above your shoulder. Steady the ball with your left hand. Hold the ball with your right. Shift your weight to your left foot as you throw. [70's flutes in background] [Narrator] Then perhaps you can tell us what this code does. How should I know? Sure, I can read the language... but how can I understand [more very groovy mid-seventies instructional flute-music] Something doesn't add up. And that's exactly what Crookes thought when he invented this device. Now, nature isn't wrong. The theory's wrong. Instead of demonstrating the pressure of light, he must have been demonstrating something else. [Narrator] When the arms are in their correct position, a pole can be placed on the bridge of the nose and the ends of it will rest between All the windows in our house have wooden doors outside. They must be opened every morning, and that's my job. [Narrator] is the hub of Future World. In a sense, it's also the heart of EPCOT Center, for here are the computers that control many of the attractions. [Narrator] [birds chirping] Once, after staying still for a long time, [exhales] [clopping hooves] and he frightened away the deer. [more incredibly '70s flute music, [Narrator] If you read programs critically when you get a chance, apply some of the ideas we've covered, and use tact with personal criticisms, you and your colleagues will be a lot more successful and so will your programs. There are some interesting things to point out about the sound, here. Of course, that buzzing is mainly the result of an old amplifier But did you hear a sort of metallic sound throughout the recordings? One of the downsides of analog optical audio if the film physically moves even just a tiny bit you'll hear that movement. And the sound drum on this machine doesn't spin silently. If I give it a quick spin we hear a similar sound. I believe that is getting transferred into the signal, In any case, it's just interesting. Something else to point out is what signal noise sounds like. For instance, when the translucent leaders at the head and tail of a film what we hear is a scratchy sound not unlike a phonograph needle sliding on the surface of a record before it locks in the groove. [buzz as amp switches on, then scratchy surface noise] [clicking and popping] Little bits of dust or scratches on the soundtrack will have a similar effect. And since even a silent section will have tiny little variations in it, there is a noise floor just like you find on vinyl records. Anyway, it's just interesting that the noise is much more like a phonograph You may have already guessed that since the sound section is here but the projected frame is all the way back there, that the sound is recorded onto the film ahead of the images, in fact by 26 frames. At the beginning of many films there will be a brief beep on the soundtrack and that helps assure that the sound is in sync. Threading mishaps can cause film to bunch up in unexpected ways so it's nice to have that confirmation. However, the sync can easily be off by a frame or two thanks to the slack section after the gate. It's easy to vary how much film is left floating here, and that will affect sound sync. Luckily, if it's off by just a couple of frames most people won't notice. Like how it was slightly off in this entire shot. Another thing to point out about these soundtracks is that, while you might assume these are in stereo this is in fact just a mono recording. The two parallel waveforms are identical. So, why bother having two of them? Is there some magic to be had? Yes, actually! This, like most of the films I have, Say that five times fast. Two parallel soundtracks help reduce what's which is basically how well or poorly centered With a single waveform running in the center, (which could happen for a number of reasons including might miss the edges of the waveform and thus Having two identical soundtracks right next to each the signal is less likely to be damaged Some manufacturers would go on to take this concept to the extreme and produce soundtracks with four or even six identical waveforms. Did it help? Maybe. OK, so we understand how the projector makes sounds but how did they get there in the first place? Well, have you ever seen one of those laser light show thingies? Think that, but itty bitty. A device called a mirror galvanometer was used to bounce a tiny spot of light That mirror, when fed an audio signal, would vibrate The stronger the signal, the more it vibrated, Without a signal it wouldn't vibrate at all and it would remain a spot. Running photographic film past this wiggly light would produce waveforms like this once developed with a reversal process. I'd love to know more about the specifics For instance, most of the color films I have are quite severely faded, Indeed, the soundtracks were made using conventional and then bonded somehow to the dye-based color film print. However that was done, the soundtrack must be very very thin as you can't feel a ridge of any kind. Or perhaps the film was made with two emulsions on it, (thanks Destin) that seems unlikely. Anyway, I don't want to dwell on this but I am very curious. Oh, and while all of my films have variable-area soundtracks, In fact, de Forest's original Phonofilms used a variable-density scheme. Here, rather than wiggle a constant light to make different shapes, we change the brightness of a light source projected through a slit. In essence it's the same exact concept as we see in the projector, That makes a soundtrack in which the recorded but it will block light in much the same way when being reproduced so it is entirely compatible with this or any other optical sound projector. And, although much rarer in the grand scheme, there are films in which the audio section They probably offered higher fidelity especially on 16mm film, but they required a compatible projector. Speaking of projectors, before we get to the part about Digital Sound On Film - that's right, that's a thing - I want to talk a little bit more about the lost art of projection. You might be wondering how long of a film Well, a big 15 inch reel like the one I'm using as a takeup-reel did you know that's where the term "footage" comes from? As in, "where's that sasquatch footage?" Motion picture film is measured in feet! And some quantity of it is footage! There are even little gauge marks on the reels. Anywho, since 16mm film has relatively small frames, at 24 frames per second a full 2200 foot reel will run for an hour. That's a pretty uncommon size, though, and the 1600 foot reel, with 800 foot reels like these common for short-subjects or educational films. This means that feature films came on multiple reels. And on 35mm film with its much larger frames, which held a maximum of 22 minutes runtime. And for many years 1000 foot reels were standard, So... how did movie-going audiences get to Well, have you ever watched a home-video release of an old movie and caught one of these little dots showing up in the corner? If you're too young you probably haven't but those are cue marks. See, although a projector in a cinema could through the Magic of Having Two Of Them, you could have another projector standing by ready to go Those cue marks appear at 8 seconds and 1 second before the end of a reel. The first signals to the projectionist to get ready to switch, and the second says "now's the time". This used to be entirely manual, and projectionists would have to quickly cover the first projector's lens with a shutter and open up the second which was rarely seamless, but eventually this process was semi-automated As you can imagine, back in the day a projectionist's job was pretty hands-on. They'd have to constantly be getting the next projector ready - as soon as they hit the changeover, they had to immediately unload the first projector, then start threading the next reel and cue it up. Then they could rewind that first reel (assuming they had a separate rewinder) and after that they'd be on the lookout for the cue marks These folks were really watching the same which was undoubtedly tedious but also meant they could If they were good enough, the audience wouldn't even notice. Unless they were looking back at the projection booth like some kinda nerd. Like me. Eventually, though, most theaters would upgrade to large platter systems And those could be loaded from the center, meaning the film just shuttled between two platters This meant a projectionist only had to start a film and could wander around to other screens in a multiplex Plan some sort of schedule for screen times That's what they call progress, I guess. Speaking or progress, starting in the '80s people got a taste of sound but from ones and zeroes. They also liked the idea of sound coming from The advent of digital surround sound meant that And it looked like this! This is a 35mm film trailer, and you probably recognize our old friend dual-bilateral variable-area! Though in this case, it actually is stereo - professional projection systems used much more precise sound heads to correctly scan both waveforms separately. By the 1970's, stereo sound was pretty standard and Dolby Stereo - a way to derive Left, Right, Center, and Surround channels from a cleverly-modulated stereo source - offered basic surround sound using this technology starting in 1976. But anyway, that's not the only soundtrack on here. In fact it has not one, not two, not three, but four different soundtracks! To the left of the analog soundtrack we find Dolby Digital sound First used in 1992, these QR-lookin' matrix barcodes, encode a Dolby AC-3 bitstream at 320 kilobits per second. There's some error correction built in, of course - by my rough count I think but anyway to upgrade your cinema a new digital sound head that scans this area using what you can describe as basically a tiny high-speed camera... (sigh) that's gonna ruffle some feathers. There's a scanner thingy that uses the same tech that's in a camera sensor to read the datastream with the help of backlight, let's just leave it at that - that thing gets installed somewhere on your projector's film path And a fun thing about being digital is that Just like 16mm film, oddly enough, But you could easily put the sound head a little to delay the sound by however many fractions That's pretty neat. Oh, and the fact that the physical location of the sound gives the MPAA preview approval cards a second purpose: at every film splice, there's gonna be a little over a second of silence in the audio before the picture catches up, and since multiple trailers would get spliced there will always be a series of gaps. Might as well use those for this thing. To be clear that also happened with analog audio but I only thought of it at this point in the scriptwriting process. Now, to the left of the Dolby Digital soundtrack In fact this one is even more digital! As in, it has a higher bitrate. This is Sony Dynamic Digital Sound, also known as SDDS, also known as of course Sony made another sound format Hitting theaters in 1993, it's scanned in much the same way as Dolby Digital much greater than Dolby. However, very few movie studios embraced mixing in that particular format and since the data is placed on the edge of the film where it's reportedly this often suffered from dropouts and yeah it was the Are you really surprised? But I said there's a fourth format. Where's that one? Why, it's right here! This is Digital Theater Systems surround sound, You may notice that this is hardly any data at all Did they discover some sort of really magic compression format? No, as a matter of fact this is merely a timecode as DTS did a throwback to sound-on-disc. Special CD-ROMs containing a 5.1 channel mix and this data stream simply identified what Offboard equipment with the loaded discs would This made the scanning equipment much simpler but meant that the sound was technically not on the film anymore and of course required more off-projector hardware plus the wrangling of the discs. But anyway, one nice benefit of the DTS system like Dolby Digital, it was also a 5.1 channel system. Since it used ~essentially~ the same sound mix, a production studio could master in either one and get essentially the same experience between a DTS or Dolby-equipped cinema. Which was another nail in the coffin for SDDS. But don't be blue, Sony. Eventually you'll win one of those format wars. Oh, and while off-film discs might have made that technique was theoretically more future-proof as it could be easily upgraded to DVD-ROM which could store more channels with more bits, though I'm not sure this was ever done in theaters But at this point, I think we're done. And that means it's time to rewind the film! On this projector, that means depressing this latch then grabbing the tail of the film and wrapping After that's done, set the projector to reverse. Oh, did I mention you can watch anything backwards? That's fun and/or necessary sometimes because a piece of masking tape got caught in the gate somehow. .terr sall wus yeep ziT .ssip moes sey vaaawW .sez yeep ziP .swup g'nosh gelwozwod wilno wunnondazI .herri hunai pumeH Anyway, after it's set to reverse you can hit this button which engages a clutch to make the supply reel go backwards real fast! Reel. Fast. Then at the end, you can watch it go fwip fwip fwip fwip for as long as you like. Though you should probably shut it off before too long. This stuff is fragile, y'know. cinematically smooth jazz [inhales] wheeeeee Eugh The 16... The - hmph. Heh heh. Heuh!! As a matter of fact it's still used in some production environments. Sitting between the [film moves] that's Every frame of film is held stationary. [confusion] Stationary still... that's what's written there? "stationary, so." There's just a redundant word. Thanks, spell check for not catching that. You kinda have to slip the film in the top section of the shproc... shection of the shprocket. A shection of the shprocket. In a world where Technology gets Connected the fate of all humanity lies in the hands of one man. He must convince people to buy powdered dishwasher detergent. Will he succeed? In theaters this Christmas.