- Millions of people fell in love with this adorable little girl saying &quot;goodbye&quot; to her grandfather. Check this out. - I got it. - [Tony] I got it. - [Tony] See you later, baby. - See you later. - I hope I see him. - [Colette] You're gonna - (Audience clapping) Joining me now are the toddler and granddad duo who are melting the hearts of America. Please welcome Tony Collins, and the granddaughter Cami. (Audience cheering) - Yeah! - So Tony and Cami, y'all got a bunch of Were you shocked by the reaction? - I was, you know, I was But she was behind the camera. - Yeah. I post on Cami's-- and I, yeah. I posted on her of course love fell in love with Cami. But since I've been posting they fell in love with the both of them, and it literally hit like 10 You know? It was unbelievable. - Cami. (Colette and audience laugh) Cami. What's-- who is this? - Popeer. - Popeer. - Popeer. - Popeer? - [Steve] Oh you Popeer? - Oh. (Tony laughs) - You know grandkids, you know, when they can't say that's what you going to be. Tony, why you think your - Ah, wow. Tell you my story. You gotta go way back a little bit. I'm from a family of 16. I grew up in this real small and my goal was to play and make a lot of money, And I did that. Got to the NFL. Then my second year in the league, I got addicted to painkillers. And from the painkillers, From the marijuana, it went from cocaine. From the cocaine, for me being suspended for a whole year outta the NFL. And I lost everything. And when Colette was this age, I wasn't a good father. - When your daughter was? - Yeah. - I wasn't a good father. And God spared my life. Gave me a second chance. Now to show you how good God is, If you take a picture of Cami and Colette when she was a little baby, Cami looked-- they look exactly alike. - [Steve] They look exactly Jesus. to see Colette grow up again. - So, I mean, look man. I mean, tell me a little bit about why weren't you a good - 'Cause I was on the road a lot playing and also with the drugs. I remember the times when but I was chasing a drug. And so that-- I mean, it is just, I'm so thankful now - because God has given I need to tell my story, let people know, so other kids don't have to go 'Cause I know a lot of kids, got the same goals that I had. - Yes, the story's important. See y'all, I got mentoring camp. I talk to young dudes all the time. And one of the things, man, &quot;yeah, see Mr. Harvey, you Nah man. Tell me what I don't understand. Please tell me what part of that I don't understand. Give it to me 'cause I - Right? I don't care who you are, if you have an aspiration to be a man, you gonna have to get to Anything else, you fall It ain't complete until you have children, until you put somebody's and treat her as a queen. And you got a family that you No matter how corny it sound, This is the ultimate This is the proving ground. You can tell me you a man all you want. Until you have some children, and you responsible for them, and you got a woman that and you honor the responsibility, Anybody can be a father. Take a special man to be See you got anybody be a father. But when you the daddy when you putting it in, that's manhood. You have to get to this. Go be somebody's daddy and If you do that good. Woo. You gotta have a war Now Colette, lemme talk to you. How does it feel watching with your daughter? The love that they have for each other. It's no words for it, really. Because she, that's, Like they are legit best friends. They do everything together and they-- we live about three and a so they can't see each other all the time, but when they do, my dad's and having tea parties, And it's just, you know, like he said, he may have missed out on things with me, but to see it with them, I love my father, and I you know, so just to see it it means the world to me. - So Tony, you also wrote a book, and the book is called &quot;Broken Road, Turning Why'd you feel the need to write the book? - The whole thing of God When you're about to die, and I was about to die. I had to overdose. I overdosed. And I'm laying on the &quot;God, I don't want to die like I said it twice, &quot;God, I And my heart start, you know, but it was too late. The ambulance had already got there and took me off to the hospital, and now I'm on ESPN and everything. &quot;Tony Collins overdosed.&quot; But that's what the But for me, it's like I can possibly do to help other people not go through what I went through. And so that's the calling that I have. I always thought, you know, you know, when you find That, you know, that's a gift. But you, you gotta give that gift away. - Yeah, yeah. - Yeah. the reason I wrote the other people not go through Not to take their daughters or my sons through. But I just want to just help - Well you know man, I learned a long time ago. Your career is what you paid for. Your calling is what you made for. - Right. - See, you needed all them moments 'cause you ain't got no You can't help nobody. So you can't help nobody if - [Tony] Right. hard to be the swim You had to go through to get to this point right here. Now the version we got now but you needed to be laying You know, that's the cold part about it. That's why I teach it at my camp. You got to have these tough moments. You know what church folks say? You can't have a testimony without a test. It just ain't no testimony because what you finna tell me? You know, but you could tell a person how to get over if you've been under. You can tell 'em how to You can tell 'em how to You can't have these So I love your story. Cami. This little girl. She's sharp, ain't she? (Colette laughs) As soon as you call her Cami, you and your family, you guys are just adorable together. And we know you like toys and clothes. You like toys and clothes? Well Belk, they are giving (audience cheers) to pick But make sure you share that gift card with your mom and your (Tony and Colette laugh) I love this bond that you have I love the relationship you I appreciate you being and sharing your story, man. And you gonna help a lot of - Thank you for having - Hey, you made it to I got a lot more that you're gonna enjoy, so just click to watch the next one. And make sure you subscribe to