Translator: Silvija Mazurenko Tennessee Williams once told us, &quot;There comes a time and you realize that what you see and then you accept it (Laughter) or you stop looking in mirrors.&quot; (Laughter) And speaking of mirrors, &quot;If we spend too much time scrutinizing we're certain to crash I've spent the last four years of my life rearview and otherwise I wanted to know where it comes from, why we need it, and how to get more of it. My research team surveyed We analyzed nearly 800 scientific studies. And we conducted dozens with people who made dramatic Now, initially, we were actually so worried that we called them (Laughter) True. But thank goodness, we did find them. Because what these unicorns taught me would create a ground-breaking revelation for how all of us can find And that's what I want to share with you. Today, I want you to reflect I know that's a mouthful. And to get there, one of the most widely held beliefs But first things first. What is this thing we call It's the ability to see ourselves clearly, to understand who we are, and how we fit into the world. Self-awareness gives us power. We might not always like what we see, but there's a comfort And there's actually a ton of research showing that people who are self-aware They have stronger relationships. They're more creative. They're more confident They are less likely to lie, They perform better at work And they're more effective leaders In the world of self-awareness, those who think they're self-aware, (Laughter) and those who actually are. It's true. My team has found that 95% of people (Laughter) but the real number You know what this means, don't you? (Laughter) It means that on a good day - 80% of us are lying to ourselves (Laughter) about whether we're lying to ourselves. (Laughter) Pretty scary, right? So you can imagine the challenge we had What do you think &quot;Hey! How self-aware are you?&quot; Exactly. So to be part of our research, They had to believe they were self-aware as measured by an assessment Using that same assessment, They had to believe that they'd increased and the person rating them had to agree. We found 50 people out of hundreds and hundreds They were professionals, entrepreneurs, And we didn't find any patterns or any other demographic characteristic. These unicorns helped my team That approach you're using to examine your thoughts, your feelings, you know, introspection. Well, you're probably doing it - there's no easy way to say this - you're probably doing it totally wrong. Yes, there is a reason So let me tell you about the evening that I first discovered the ugly truth It was about 10 p.m. on a beautiful And I was in my office, hopped up on Diet Coke (Laughter) And I just analyzed a set of data, and to say that I was surprised My team and I had just run a simple study looking at the relationship and things like happiness, Naturally, the people who introspected Wouldn't you think so? Our data told the exact opposite story. People who introspected less satisfied with their jobs less in control of their lives. I had no idea what was going on. And it got worse. These negative consequences increased (Laughter) So I was quite confused. Later that week, I ended up that looked at how widowers The researchers found that those who try to understand were happier, less depressed but one year later, They were fixated on what happened Have you been there? I have. Self-analysis can trap us So things were starting to make sense. Now, you Die Hard self-awareness fans and particularly introspection fans &quot;Sure, introspection may be depressing, but it's worth it because of the insight it produces.&quot; And you're right. I'm not here today to tell you that the pursuit of self-awareness Not at all. I am here to tell you that the way Here is the surprising reality: Thinking about ourselves So to understand this, let's look at the most common &quot;Why?&quot; We might be searching Why am I so upset Or we might be questioning our beliefs. Why don't I believe in the death penalty? Or we might be trying &quot;Why did I choke in that meeting?&quot; Unfortunately, when we ask &quot;Why?&quot; it doesn't lead us towards the truth It leads us away from it. There are so many reasons Today I'll give you two. Here is the first reason Researchers have found that no matter how hard we try, we can't excavate our unconscious And because so much is hidden we end up inventing answers Let me give you an example. Psychologists Timothy Wilson outside their local Meijers thrifty store And on that card table, they laid out And they asked the people (Laughter) Now, consumer research shows that people And that's exactly what happened. Even though every pair was identical, people chose pair D And when asked why they have chosen they confidently declared (Laughter) And even - get this - even when the researchers told them they refused to believe it. The second reason is that it leads us away We like to think of our brains rationally analyzing information Unfortunately, that's not what happens. Let's do a quick exercise that's based So if I were to ask you to make a list of all the reasons your romantic what would you say? Let's say that in general But let's just pretend that yesterday you happened to get in a huge fight about the proper way (Laughter) Really bad. Now, because of something this is going to carry You might start thinking of things like, (Laughter) Or you might think, &quot;Why the hell does it matter so much And before you know it, you're thinking your relationship (Laughter) Asking &quot;Why?&quot; created &quot;alternative facts.&quot; (Laughter) And over time, this leads us It clouds our self-perceptions. So you might be wondering if asking &quot;Why?&quot; makes us depressed, it's probably not going But don't worry. I'm not here today to tell you I am here to tell you to start doing it So if we shouldn't ask &quot;Why?&quot; Do you remember When we looked at how they approached We analyzed literally hundreds and we saw a very clear pattern. Although the word &quot;why&quot; the word &quot;what&quot; appeared Let me give you a few examples. Nathan, a brand manager, got a terrible performance review Instead of asking, he asked, &quot;What can I do to show her It changed everything. People now point to Nathan and his boss as proof that polar opposites Sarah, an education leader, was diagnosed And when she asked, &quot;Why me?&quot; she said it felt like a death sentence. So then she asked, &quot;What's most important to me?&quot; This helped her define what she wanted her life to look like She's now cancer free and more focused on the relationships Jose, an entertainment And instead of getting stuck, and ask, &quot;Why do I feel so terrible?&quot; he asked, &quot;What are the situations and what do they have in common?&quot; He quickly realized that he would and it gave him the courage to pursue a new and far more fulfilling So these are just three examples of dozens of unicorns that asked Do I have any Nathans or Sarahs, I'll add one more: Tasha. So earlier this year, I published which I am so proud of. But one day, for some unknown reason, I did what every author I read my Amazon reviews. (Laughter) And, you guys, it was devastating. I asked, &quot;Why are people about a book that I spent and wrote to make their lives better?&quot; Right? I fell into a spiral of self-loathing. It was honestly one A couple of weeks went by, and it dawned on me that maybe I should take (Laughter) So I tried a different question. I asked, &quot;What about all those people who were telling me that my book What a different outcome. So no, I wasn't doing it right either. This is not an easy world, is it? Not at all. (Laughter) She knows, we all know. But I have seen so much evidence that self-awareness at finding happiness and success To start, we just need Change &quot;why&quot; to &quot;what.&quot; Why-questions trap us What-questions move us As human beings, we are blessed what we want to contribute, Remember, our self-awareness unicorns except a belief in the importance and a daily commitment to developing it. That means we can all be unicorns. The search for self-awareness Life goes on. It's up to us to choose to learn and grow from our mistakes and our tragedies, One of the best quotes I've ever heard He said, &quot;Yesterday I was clever, Today I'm wise, so I am changing myself.&quot; Thank you very much. (Applause)