Welcome! We are on a job site in Fredericksburg, Texas. Where our crew is on its final days and doing the final touches on a new house that's 4,740 square feet. It's a pretty good size house. This dome features a 40-foot diameter, two-36's and two-32's. There's five domes there, and they're all connected with some really wide-sweeping saddles; is what we call those connections, and so you can see that she's actually going to have two The house has another couple of really cool features that we're going to walk around and show you today. One of the things that is the most fun is the water cistern to capture the rainwater on the project. We'll go look at the system for catching the water, we'll go down inside the cistern that we built, we'll show you some shots of that from the inside and the outside. We'll also walk around and show you a couple of the unique augments that we did on this project that's really going to put together a first-class home. One of the things we're doing on smooth layer to the inside. We can kind So, this smooth layer was done and now we're actually adding a layer One of the most fun features of this home is If you look around the perimeter of the dome, she wanted kind of a form-finding concrete trench, around the base so that all the rainwater on this dome is collected down in a series of drains. Now, this series of drains is all connected to a off the back patio. At first glance, it just Here, we've got just a stainless steel door, and down inside, you've got an 8-foot-deep, it's about an average of 40 foot wide by about 16 feet. Let's go down the side and take a look. So, now we're down inside the water The echo might keep my voice from working. After decided to give the lid a little bit more support create this wall system on the inside to help I really like the archways; kind of looks like some kind of aqueduct looking deal. You can see that we've already got some water in here. We had rain the other day, and so we weren't One of the coolest things about this like a water tank from the outside. If someone It's very strong; you could drive a truck on So this is another augment that we and it worked really well. We've got an augment that kind of sits back, you know you saw that from the inside. This is what it looks like from the outside. This dome, like many, will have a concrete coat on the outside to cover up any of the irregularities that you see. So when this thing is done, it is going to look awesome. This dome has a couple interesting augments. This one is a window that she wants to be able to put pillows in on the bottom of it. So that you can lay inside while you look out. If you look around the property here, she really has an amazing view. It's fun to do augments that are different, but one of the challenges with this one, was we had to install supports here, at the bottom, after it was inflated, to help hold it up while the shotcrete was being installed. This opening is your basic inset opening, where she'll have two large windows and two large sliding glass doors coming out onto the patio. Again, you can see every foot will have this rainwater-catching system. So, continuing our walk around, this, from the inside, is a bathroom. There'll be a vanity here, and then theyre'll be a glass window here, where you can look out and also capture that awesome view. We like these extended augments; it kind of helps protect that window from the rain. It gives a nice mounting area from the inside. So, this is the inside of the dome. You can tell that what we did was we smoothed the inside using white cement, and now we're adding another layer of gypsum to really finish it off and give it a light orange peel texture. As soon as we're done with this part then she can bring in the framing people and they can start to work on getting the walls framed out and the doors and windows installed. You can tell it's noticeably cooler already. how insulated they are, is how without air conditioning, without anything, it's noticeably cooler inside. This was another fun augment that we worked on. This will have a complete round glass window on the inside where you can look out and capture that view again.