- This is not a car. - Okay, I guess it's a vehicle. - The fact that you cannot drive a Zoox vehicle by yourself, that it doesn't have manual controls, that, in our view, distinguishes it from what people traditionally You don't have that moment but it's kind of not a car. And, you know, 'What's moving all by itself?' We view those transitional products as kind of weird hybrids. - This vehicle is capable By contrast, Tesla Autopilot is Level Two. Level Five is a major and means no humans are necessary to drive the vehicle. You've probably heard about autonomous vehicles for years and may be skeptical Are they truly autonomous, or are they just billionaire - This is not going to And we're gonna make sure that the recipe and methodology to get - Here, just south of Oakland, Zoox is manufacturing and So what's it like to ride in one? This is &quot;Hard Reset,&quot; a series about rebuilding This is an assembly line where robot cars are assembled by normal humans, as opposed to most assembly lines where normal cars are assembled by robots. How is he walking so slow? - So this is the way it's actually produced in Italy. The body is made out of carbon fiber. The computer's down here in the floor. If you look down here, is the space where we Moving on to this side, our door system is very different than what you see on a traditional car. As it's more, I would say, related to what you would basically opening to the side. - I came to see these cars, sorry, &quot;vehicles,&quot; come off the assembly line and go to this testing facility, which is cleverly disguised as a mostly abandoned parking lot. They test everything from Wow, what the f*ck? Door operation. And if they're weather sealed. And also, rogue filmmakers I actually added that - The only reason that cars is that you have to drive Why not just make the vehicles symmetrical and bidirectional? For example, you don't or five-point turns, and you So if you pick somebody you can just flip the lights It makes routing easier - All of the initial testing is done by a guy with a very cool remote control. But then the moment of truth-- a fully autonomous ride. So what's it like to ride in one? Well, because of lawyers we only got to stick our camera in with one of the Zoox test passengers. But we hear the passenger - Kind of boring? But it made it very clear that this is gonna be - Okay, boring. Because it's smooth, in the design and in the that you don't even think about driving. - It's easy to get a with only the narrow technology aspects, and not think about what for the end-user? If you think about they're gonna get in this vehicle and they're not going But what they are gonna experience is, what does it feel like? And what is it like to What do the seats feel like? How do you tell it to go somewhere? Does it stop smoothly? Is it easy to get in and out of? It's kind of like getting on a monorail. You don't really have to explain a monorail to somebody. You see a-- What'd I say? - What's it called? - And you're like,&quot;Oh, okay, I get it.&quot; It takes about five or ten seconds. - But unlike a monorail, autonomous cars, uh vehicles, aren't stuck on a track. They can meet you wherever you like, so they're actually a lot from your favorite 17th-century epic, like &quot;Barry Lyndon.&quot; But you can't smoke inside. Anyway, after the vehicle it's off to this jumbo treadmill to get some real speed behind it. Then there's more tests, And that's actually really important if you want these things to be everywhere. And they kind of already are. Zoox has been charting and Seattle, with their autonomous cars. These cars use LIDAR to create a detailed 3D map of the city, which their fleet will use to navigate. The Zoox fleet will also use as they drive around in order to give them a fuller picture of the world and enable safe navigation This array of sensors holds the promise of making these vehicles much safer than human-driven ones. - I'm looking forward to that day where we wonder how we ever accepted or tolerated 94% of crashes being caused by human error. - A lot of the crashes are during those strange maneuvers that people don't do that often-- three-point turns, As a human, you can only look in one direction at a time. Not only can we see we also have 270 degrees coverage on every corner of the vehicle, so we can even see around objects. And so we have a significantly higher degree of situational awareness, which makes the vehicle much, much safer, particularly in tricky maneuvers. - Zoox's vehicles are nearly ready to make their public debut. And you'll be able to buy one...never. No autonomous vehicle buying for you. These are effectively taxis, which means Zoox's vision of the future has very few cars that And then what will we buy What will happen to What about the people who - You should be happy because I'm not making I'm just making you pay for that little, tiny We wanna think about this as transportation as a service, as opposed to anything else. When you're not using it, There's a fleet of them. They go to base. They autonomously get themselves to the charging station. Two hours, done. Up, back out, and redeploy. We are challenging personal car ownership, something that is ingrained And we're challenging because we think that and every single one of us outweigh the, &quot;Oh, well, you know, I wanna be able to have or as I feel like.&quot; - And so what if Zoox, and other autonomous vehicle companies like it, succeed? More sidewalks and parks, cleaner emissions, and a whole lot fewer traffic fatalities. But transportation is also about access. If public transit doesn't and gas is a precious commodity, that's going to affect where you work and where you socialize. - Transportation is a big deal in terms of access to knowledge, access to freedom, independence, and just things. There are areas right now That, in my humble view, limits the economic Our goal, and this is something that's particularly important to me, is for this vehicle to go How're we doing on the doors? This vehicle is not gonna care what's your social strata, race, ethnicity, gender, any of that. If you order one, it'll come pick you up and take you to where you need to go. A day? Oh, this is good, improving! Transportation is not equally distributed. You make that available, Come back next time for another episode of Hard Reset. Subscribe to Freethink to watch our other original series and documentaries about technology and people that are changing our world.