From clam-covered pizza in Connecticut to tater tot toppings in Missouri, here's each state's best pizza place. Post Office Pies sources and its mozzarella is made in-house. The pies are cooked in a brick oven, which gives the crest a Moose's Tooth Pub and Pizzeria is popular for its wide with toppings such as apricot In 2015, chef and owner Chris Bianco was hailed as America's One of his most popular is topped with wood-roasted onion, house-smoked mozzarella, Damgoode Pies is a local The restaurant is famous for its eight handcrafted savory sauces. One of Damgoode's most popular sauces is its pink sauce, which combines its original red sauce with its signature spicy white sauce. Antico Restaurant is popular in LA for its focaccia pizza. The tomato pie is sprinkled fresh sauce, and quality cheese, and the olive-oil-laden, crispy crunch you get with each bite will keep you coming back for more. Pizzeria Locale is a that specializes in Neapolitan pizza. Simplicity is key, as the cooks use only four ingredients in the dough. The wood-burning ovens so you get your pizza fast. Frank Pepe's Pizzeria has been around for nearly a century. Most importantly, the shop is known for its white clam pizza. Yes, seafood on a pizza. Trust us, it is delicious! Right next to the University The Wood Fired Pizza Shop for both locals and college students. The spicy Italian and Besto are two favorites. Old Greg's Pizza is a hot with customers having to wait up to a few weeks to get a pie. These square pies feature a sourdough base and are loaded with delightfully Antico Pizza Napoletana is about as close as you can get to authentic Italian pizza in Georgia. The tomatoes, mozzarella, and olive oil are all flown in from Italy. Even the restaurant's wood-fired ovens are shipped in from Naples. J. Dolan's brings New The thin-crust pizza is light, crispy, and loaded with cheese. At The Wylder, you can choose between red pizzas and white pizzas. The red pizza is made and the white pizza is The Honey Badger is a favorite and features sausage, caramelized Lou Malnati's is the place to go when it comes to Chicago deep dish. The restaurant has a secret family recipe for its buttery, flaky crust. Jockamo Upper Crust from a large assortment Their cheese list features including goat cheese, pepper Wig and Pen gets its name from a longstanding London establishment that survived the 1666 and the World War II blitz. The restaurant is renowned for both its Chicago-style deep dish and its thin-crust pizza. AJ's NY Pizzeria brings authentic The sauce is extra garlicky, and the cheese is a blend At Impellizzeri's, it's With three locations in Louisville and the original Impellizzeri's make sure you stop here for Pizza Delicious started in a but the restaurant has because of the demand for Customers rave about the thin crust and love the cheese-to-sauce ratio. Slab is famous for its which is made fresh with hand-mixed dough. Although the slabs appear the dough is surprisingly The cheese is spread to the edges and caramelizes as it bakes. All pizzas at Joe Squared and baked in a 900-degree oven, which gives a nice crisp Since 1926, Regina Pizzeria The shop is beloved for its all-natural, fresh ingredients and tasty pizzas. Buddy's is the birthplace These square-shaped pies making the crust thick and crispy with crunchy bits of In Minnesota, there's no Their coal-fired ovens Lost Pizza Co. was founded in 2007 by former college roommates. The dough is made from scratch, and the sauce is made from, you guessed it, a secret recipe. Grinders' Famous Chili Bomb Pie features a centerpiece of tater tots, chili, Cheez Whiz, and green onions. Some of the restaurant's include smoked salmon and crabmeat. Biga Pizza follows the Italian tradition of using biga rather than commercial yeast as its dough starter. The local hot spot is known for its weekly specialty pizzas, scrumptious salads, and hand-tossed dough. At Zio's Pizzeria, the crust on this New and there's a perfect The shop also offers a variety of specialty pizzas to choose from, like The Original Thai Known to have the largest Pin-Up Pizza is no joke. These 30-inch pies are available in seven different varieties. Tilton House of Pizza is a go-to if you're in the Northeast area. The Greek-style pizzas have a thick crust that is light and airy. Carmine's Pizza Factory in Jersey City has a geometric pizza that The geometric pizzas contain along with a salad or dessert centerpiece. Since 1993, Cafe Rio has brought East Coast pizza to the Southwest. The ingredients are made It even sources ingredients Di Fara Pizza is a must when All ingredients are imported from Italy, and the pies are drizzled in olive oil both before and after baking. Trophy Brewing Co. has The lamb sausage topping and the spicy fire-roasted tomato sauce are popular among customers. Fireflour is known for its The mozzarella is hand-stretched, and the organic sauce has Harvest Pizzeria is known The sauce is made in-house, and all the ingredients are The wood-fired ovens provide a crust that is crispy, airy, and bubbly. In 1957, Hideaway Pizza near Oklahoma State University. There are a variety of or you can even build your own. Dove Vivi is a family-owned pizzeria that is famous for its cornmeal crust. The cornmeal provides a sturdy bottom while giving the pizza a crunchy edge. Sarcone's Bakery has been Even without cheese, the tomato pie is one of the Al Forno uses products to create Italian dishes. It's known for its wood-grilled pizzas, which are charred to perfection and have a light, airy crust. EVO Pizzeria started and has since become brick-and-mortar establishments All of its ingredients, including black cherry and Carolina bacon, are locally sourced. Grille 26 has the best Customers can choose between regular crust or cauliflower crust. Five Points Pizza in Nashville is known for its hand-tossed Customers love Dave's Pie, which is dressed with Home Slice brings New York-style pizza to the Lone Star state. Pepperoni is a favorite, but you can also get a kit to go to make your favorite Located just off the The Pie Pizzeria is always buzzing. The ApocalyptDough uses different spices from around the world, giving the crust a slow-burning sensation. The Parker Pie Co. is Lake Parker Country Store in West Glover. Be sure to stop in for the and a great selection Pupatella is a local staple. Its menu currently offers 25 different Neapolitan pizzas, though our favorite is the which is topped with provola cheese, and tomato sauce. The best pizza in Washington can be found at The The Flying Goat is the perfect spot for a date or a family dinner, and on Mondays, all pizzas are only $12. Pies and Pints is not when it comes to toppings. One of the more unique specialty pies is the grape and Gorgonzola. Famous for its thin-crust pizza, Zaffiro's Pizza and Bar is one of the most popular The cracker-crust pizza is crispy and loaded with toppings. Pinky G's is a popular tourist stop if you're in Jackson Hole. It's known for its large portions, so you can buy a slice or a whole pie depending on your appetite. While they aren't technically states, here are the best pizza and Puerto Rico. 2Amys is a perfect pizza For the classic-pizza lover, we recommend the 2Amys Pie. Pirilo Pizza Rustica is a popular place among locals and tourists in Puerto Rico. The thin-crust pizza has a light sauce and is covered with exquisite toppings like shrimp and calamari. So, which pizza was your favorite? Are there any we missed? Let us know in the comments below.