Oh God, how it hurts! No good! Tomorrow, early in the morning, my adventure on the Continental Divide Trail begins... It will be difficult. I'm carrying a lot of stuff. I'm a bit afraid of the weight... I'm afraid of the loneliness. Not many people hike this trail. I'm also of bad weather, which is perhaps the most Yes, I'm happy, I'm scared... I'm excited... Mixed feelings, mixed feelings. But on the other hand, I'm excited to see what this trail To my mind... Yeah, yeah, give me more, give me more!!! Piece of s***! Thru-hiking is not what we usually see in videos, inspirational articles. Thru-hiking is an exponentiated life, it is full of challenges that often exceed the hikers, And once you get inspired by a sweet video and everything you hoped for will be different, and what This is a story of a breakdown and which is not include flowers and butterflies, but This is a real thru-hike. The heat I'm anxious about the heat. Temperatures here I don't feel good. No. I don't feel good. I feel bad. It's so beautiful here, but I don't see it. I don't see it. This trail, be it the heat or whatever, is the trail of extremes. I find myself with deeper levels of And that's the part that's hard to cope with is because we're having a great time, and they can see it in our photos, When you're walking in a 100 degrees for 20 miles, You're stuck in your own head for 20 miles And then either you find a way to like overcome it, There are no trees in New Mexico... I met a woman in Lordsburg, and she said there was And hikers knew every single on of them because you're It's so hot! My feet are hurting. I have to keep on hiking. Well, that sucks, man! I've done desert on the Pacific Crest Trail, It's highly exposed, no running water. My legs sunburnt, Now I'm covering my legs... Everything is just sharper, At some point, due to sweating, sunscreen comes off, due to the dryness and heat, I have a couple cracks in my skin. The desert is brutal. Wind, sand everywhere. Water The biggest issue on this section is water. It is scarce. and water tastes awful. Tastes like shit. I've learned some tricks from everyone - so you don't even think about you're drinking cow poop. And that's how you manage it. Because you have to I made a video about a cattle trough... It looked like an algae soup. Bugs were swimming inside, I was like - I will not drink that. But after a few weeks on the put some drops in it, or not, and you drink it. Wars were fought over water, people killed for a sip and now we felt the same urge, the same thirst, on our It was necessary to completely exhaust ourselves to reach And then we transitioned from scarcity Trail treated us just like life - you long for something and your longing becomes anxiety. Some of those river crossings are I got stuck in the mud hole... up to here. I had to pull I felt myself sinking. I got so muddy that at the next ford, I just sat in the The Gila River was beautiful as we walked through At times, we crossed the river countless times. I remember When there's no water, we complain that there's no water, and Sometimes it feels like we're never satisfied. It was a good lesson. In order for water to serve you, it must be in the right If only one of these items is missing, It turns from a symbol of life into a symbol of death. I met a lady, and she followed me across the river, We realized it was the wrong way, so we went back. Then she fell into a hole, and her backpack pressed against I threw my backpack and ran to help. I took her backpack, helped her, and pulled her out. Yeah, that was close. I made a big mistake. Everything is frozen. This is my sock. It's solid. Which is not a problem. I have another pair. But I left the water filter outside, and it froze completely, That's a big problem and... shit! Discomfort The first four days were the worst eye opening, getting to I've done some of the Arizona Trail... ...and that's desert as well, but the New Mexico desert The tendons in both of my feet are getting inflated, So, it seems like tendons are my next issue. There's a spectrum, there's elation on one end, there is and you're living in between those two extremes. You're vulnerable, and when you start out in extreme It's crazy. You never know what aches and pains will come, Oh, yes, get it out. So needed. God, that was juicy. The biggest issue, honestly, is your foot care You get a blister, and people back home think - But when you're taking 30 or 50 thousand steps a day, Bit by bit, it wears you out. I mean, you get used to Makes those miles kind a long. I am kicking cactuses as I walk, I lost a toenail... You really have to be at your best because you can This is really no joke. You have to be at your best. I had a major shin splints and blisters From the moment you wake up until the moment you go to you have to take care of yourself. If you don't take care of yourself even for one day, You always have to work around water and take I didn't expect it to be so tough on our bodies. I didn't expect blisters so severe. I saw meat in the wounds. When it's not the body that's screaming and trying Sandstorm. I can hardly breathe. It seems like it's a eclipse of the sun. They said it's going to intensify overnight, This is bad... And when pain and discomfort multiply, Today is the day when I feel like giving up. I don't see the point in why I'm doing this. I feel exhausted, I have no energy. And nothing is working. Whatever I take, eat, drink... And yes, I would like to quit now. This is just a point on the trail when I have to persevere. You know, it will pass...this low point of my journey. I've had several crises... so this crisis will pass as well. But sometimes the crisis never passes. . It gets deeper and deeper; And while you sleep, while you dream dreams of victory, and once invincible, now you slowly You're only human, you better get used to it. Mountains I crossed an icy slope at 7 in the morning. I took a few steps, it was okay, and then, One wrong step, a slip, and I'll fall down the slope, On the Continental Divide Trail, I was more I feel like every day, in some way, Like a punch in the face... We've just finished crossing We have altitude, 10000 ft climbs, we have They are always new. When I first arrived in Colorado, Are you ready? Too late! It's time to go! Mountains - the giants. They don't care about you. If you just give him a chance they are going to crush you. You better brace yourself. You better gain your stamina and swallow your fear... ...because...mountains... ...they just don't care. It's a little bit of dread, almost, you know. It's exciting because you're about to do something, but Sometimes it's easy, especially in the mountains, to find just because you've taken too many steps. Even when you're coming down from a mountain ridge, and then you find you've put yourself in worse position, even though it's far more dangerous. My experience up there in 12000 area was pretty It was difficult; I didn't realize what it was gonna take. You would think you might get 18 miles in that day, You're carrying food; everything becomes much heavier. You're trying to manage all that, The snow just takes it out of you. The majesty, the divinity, the sacramentality of the moreover, whoever resists loses his essence. People were created to dwell in the heights, at least to taste that divinity and find a narrow path Which will make them worthy of bearing the name - human! The mountain is sacred! If you relax for just one second and make one wrong step, You have to have a good time, but always be aware. Ok, braking, braking! My tent is still here. I was very afraid that we would be on the ridge I was scared. All the guys were ahead of me, they were faster, I was running after them, I felt my heart pounding in my throat. I thought - I don't want to die right now, I just need to push my limits, which is not comfortable, Amanda and I were just on the ridge, and there was one We thought it will quit. It does it all the time. A four-hour hail storm right out of that one You never know what to expect. You have to be prepared We had hail and thunder here, but luckily, most Our only task now is to keep warm as much as we can. Colorado monsoons... we don't like them. That was gnarly... - Ah, this is good. A windshield. - A little lee... - Finally. Not an easy climb. This is mountaineering. This was a night snack. I'm not sure if this But today I skipped some meals because of the bad weather. Because it's just not enough. It's going to rain tomorrow, and I probably won't be I must not skip meals. That's so important! So, this is my third meal today. The plan is to get up early in the morning, eat something, Tommorow is a tough day. Today, a beautiful morning. The sun... Amazing sun. I love the sun. This morning, I opened my tent and saw And then the sun came out. I'm so grateful for the sun, Especially after a day like yesterday. It's getting windy, and there are many dead trees around. Rough times, rough weather. I have to believe that everything will be okay and that I hope it won't come crashing down during the night. I'm done with Colorado. Yeah, I'm done. Loss I don't know. It's tough. At first, you can't believe it, and then you I don't know how to explain... Sad... Sad. When I heard the news in Leadville that he had died... Something died inside of me. The spark just faded. We met Cutie at the Toaster House. I mean, before that, It was a great group of people, it was amazing. &lt;i&gt;(Chatting)&lt;/i&gt; We talked a lot about it with people around us, and In the end, we concluded that it can happen to any It was a game changer because when you When I was hiking the Colorado Trail, a woman died in But this is a hiker I was friend with. I think it's hard every time when someone dies on the trail We're all doing the same thing here. We're all going I feel like we've lost a team member. I don't know... he died, and it's very sad. He was You just never know when you're gonna die. I had a lot And than I just had my grandpa die. It's a tragedy. Really sad. When I heard the news, I It could have been anyone. For a young person to die Yeah, passing away of Cutie was quite a shock. Nobody expects that. The death creeped into the CDT community. Black curtain... The hikers, the community have discovered in They realized that this is real life and But yeah, Cutie was a great guy. It's a privilege to have known him. I remember all those moments I spent with him. When I was cooking lunch for him at Davilla Ranch. Cool time at Pie Town...that was cool. Hiking together with him... He was super fast, a super capable hiker. I remember interviewing him in Chama. I went over to my tent and Dictionary was just there. I said: not so great. I asked him about the hardships of a thru-hike, It's good, it's fun. I've had only minor blisters this time. All the blisters had been pretty minor and I just pop them, and then stick a piece of tape over them, He was a real outdoorsman. I will definitely remember him in the best possible way. You need to ask yourself what you really want to do We're doing something what we really want to do, So you just got to go do it I'm still processing all of it. It will take some time. You can see that he really enjoyed life, And I like what his dad wrote about him, That Cutie was a man who never crossed the river first, Which I think describes him a lot. I love being outside. I love sleeping outside. Every time I'm in town, I always stay at the RV parks because I can sleep outside instead I really love being outside, and this allows me to be Cutie was found dead in his tent near He died of natural causes. Life writes strange stories. This one about Cutie will forever be remembered Farewell my friend. Farewell! Breakdown There is a big battle going on inside of me. But that's a thru-hike. It's never easy. If it's not blisters There's always something. I was saying but I'm kind of sick of being on the move. The sickness of not having a secure Thru hiking is the ideal place for the worm It is legit to have this disease, but if you have it At least according to established patterns. According In some other textbooks it might just I had a major crisis the other day, and... I snapped. Why am I doing this? Every day I'm running away from Look at this shit. Look at this water. And then I'll come to Wyoming, and there will be no Why? Why? I'm done. I'm sick of this. It's Continental Divide Trail.....yeah..... Continental my ass. And that was.... just, you know... I snapped because of the water on the trail, But, that was not the real reason. The real reason was - I am fed up with everything. Than snow. It just didn't melt. For some reason it didn't melt. Here, it's melted. But there, for some reason, Then you posthole, then you're wet, you slide, Why? To get to Canada. Yeah, but why? I met a guy, just few moment ago, And I was like: ok. And you? He said: Living my dream! I realized as soon as he said, &quot;I'm living my dream,&quot; I lived my dream on the thru-hike, but I'm not living I don't know, maybe it's just an excuse. I walk for days, days, and I look... If I enter Wyoming, it will come back, if I do this or that, The spark is gone. How do I live this type of living, which is tremendously And I saw that spark in that guy's eyes: And I'm like: oh, really? I am done with this. I'm sick of it. I'm sick of being tired, I'm sick of being wet, of being cold, I'm sick or that I will freeze to death somewhere in these crazy And than, my hiking buddy died... I don't like it... Like the guy said - I'm living my dream - This thru-hike became just a... ...big struggle for me. Look at this! Just listen the sound. Yeah, give me more, give me more, Piece of shit! Just thinking about giving up is like someone It's unbearable. I did three thru-hikes, three The very idea of quitting. My ego is destroyed I came here to finish the trail. I didn't come to quit. It's so difficult... ...to let go of the idea, the goal.&quot; So, so difficult... I don't know... One of the most difficult things in my life so far Are you happy? Are you happy now? The trail is happy because I'm miserable The trail is f*** happy. Well, f*** you! I'm f**** going home! Fuck you!!!! I said that I wanna go home... Yes, that's the truth. I do wanna go home. And when the decision is made, nothing can You question your decisions, wondering if you But whatever the answer, your body and your The tension eases, the goal fades, Priorities are being rearranged. You have reached your end. You are just a human Unbeliavable. F*** you, Colorado! What do we have here? Trail magic.... Really? Nothing here, nothing here, and nothing here. Let me sign in. What's the date? 6th of July. Thank you trail magic... This is my trail magic. This: empty road and rain. Toilet. That looks like a good place to hide And so it ends. Which should have been a triumph Humility triumphed. Reality, after all. When a man finds himself in front of a wall, and qualities he didn't even know existed were Every end brings a new beginning. Some people were waiting for you and now - enriched you return humbled but exalted, weaker but stronger, sad but elated, You are a walking contradiction - a man who You are good and keep it up.