(logo warbling) - [Jake] And we're back of &quot;Before You Buy,&quot; that show we give you and our first impressions of As usual, it's me, Jake, about Need for Speed Unbound again, with the Volume 9 update. We wanted to take a look at First of all, the big thing, like I said, it's the new Volume 9 update that brings some new things worth Also, just as a good kind which if you remember, I did not do the &quot;Before You Buy&quot; video for this game on launch, I can't do every single &quot;Before You Buy&quot; like I used to back in And yeah, this one did pain me because I'm usually the Need For Speed guy covering every single one, So I'm visiting it one year later. Now let's just jump in So before we get to the Volume 9 update, just like a brief primer Unbound is a big open world single player campaign Need For Speed racer The campaign is arcadey open world racing with a really good combo like kind of smartly borrowing hallmarks from different parts of the series and crafting its own thing out of it. You race, you grind, you and buy cool parts for those cars to make them cooler. Just like any good street And of course when this the big talk was around the style. It's got a little bit of specifically to the and also some of the effects, you know, the smoke from your tires, the things to like help They all have a little and a lot of people were turned off on it back in the day. You can switch a lot of these options off. It's not really a big deal. If anything I think they should have went a little bit more into this style, but still, it's something to help it stand out. The driving itself, there to tune how it plays, but by default, which I stuck with and I'm clearly not very good, but it is very, very arcadey and very tap the brake and then pull to a I think this is fun. I think this is very arcadey and I love my hardcore I like a &quot;Force of Motorsport,&quot; but sometimes I just wanna and I think these controls Is it the best drifting I don't know about that. They've tried it in a and messed with it, but is it is pretty fun. The world they built here It's straight up Chicago, but like when you look at it, I've been to Chicago enough times to go, &quot;Oh okay, this is pretty much But it makes for a good racing arena and there's a lot of variety to it. You have the countryside, you have the city outskirts, and there's a lot to it and What doesn't really work and the dialogue stuff. Every once in a while I'll give them that, but so like on the nose in your face Gen Z, and I never complain but it just feels so how It feels very try hard. Maybe I'm not the age demographic but a lot of it just like A lot of the times like I found a lot of the dialogue actually really, really grating. Again a couple of little but for the most part I was like, &quot;I don't want to hear any of this, dude.&quot; But thankfully, again, the focus is all on the open world racing and it's creative how it does it, right? It throws you in during the day. You could do races and jump But then at night, that's when there are bigger but that's also just like with more rewards and stuff like that. But you're worried about building heat, meaning how much cops will chase you, how quickly they'll identify you and how hard they'll pursue you. So it's a really good balance of night and day street racing from Need For Speed games and heat stuff we've seen It's just a good addictive combo and that's what this game wants because there is a lot to grind through, a lot to collect, a lot of ways to upgrade and change your cars. And yes, I still think and some people aren't gonna like that, but I think if you like the racing enough and the environment enough, You're gonna be able to dump It also does have Battle Pass stuff and like EA stuff that I just don't, I don't really like, I don't really care. I'd rather just progress and unlock and grind the old fashioned way instead of having this like fancy little XP Battle Pass Whatever, that's like an But I think long story short base game and otherwise a couple of glitches and technical problems I had on PC and some cops spawning and right in front of me, other than that, it still seems like a Is it worth it? I'd say, yeah, if you get it on discount or if you were like me, you didn't have time it's a good Need For Speed game. If you're looking for something a little bit different flavor wise, maybe you're all dried up with the &quot;Forza Horizon&quot; games, you want something a little bit but you know, a different Now it is worth mentioning the more recent Volume 9 update, this brings a little like it's &quot;Need For which is cool if not as big of It's also like the 30th anniversary of Need For Speed, which is crazy. So there's some new unlockables and stuff and new to the game are and I'm not being sarcastic here. The Honda Integra Type R and the classic Subaru Impreza WRX STI, which it just feels Need For Speed throwbacks, they know what they're doing here. There are also motorcycles now, which I just want to They are absolutely insane and awesome. They kind of ditch a lot of the feel like of the stylized drifting racing, but what they make up for it like insane exhilarating speed, like really good aggressive sound effects and just really, really good handling and motion make you feel like you can like rip apart the entire It's absolutely bananas and They almost feel like they kind of break the game a little bit to escape from the cops. Now you're taking advantage And the biggest thing to come to Volume 9, arguably, it's &quot;Lockdown.&quot; &quot;Lockdown&quot; is a multiplayer mode designed to you know, keep you constantly racing and competing and it's of depth to it. It's like its own whole thing. It's kind of like an but for racing, but also circle of a battle royale, there's a lot to it and it's actually kind Essentially you and are dropped onto the map and are free to drive around and to earn and also crash into crates and stuff that have cash. Along with that, there are also these kind of like weapon pickups that you can engage to get a little bit of an advantage over the Now as you're doing all this stuff, you're being guided by the voice of the kind of overseer to Things will pop up on which you can then race to to earn more and jack a different ride. As you're doing all this stuff, Heat is rising, so more and very quickly things And along with that, more sections of the map are by a wall of police EMP Also, while doing all this, you can jump into races and stuff. So essentially you steal a car and then you wait for an extraction truck to appear on the map all while trying to survive the escalating police presence and you know get more You find a truck that'll pop up on the map here and there, these extraction trucks, you will chase 'em down and then try and hold long enough to then to get out of the mode. But then you unlock that or all that earned cash. The game gives you a very, very busy map that you can, you know, to see where things are. Other players, extraction trucks, cash opportunities, vehicles And along with that you can engage in to get more bonuses. You know, kind of like little things you can trigger before with specific targeted to then earn more, like in a lot of games but they're dumping on here. There are four of these contract sets for you to work through, so there is quite a bit here including the &quot;Blacklist&quot; ones. Those of course are the ones where you get the to extract and keep them. Those are a big deal and apparently, and I haven't done this yet, but according to EA and the developers, if you collect every Blacklist contract, you unlock the original &quot;Need For Speed: Most Wanted&quot; BMW M3 GTR, we all know it, you it's like a legendary It is a crazy mode and it is designed to keep you engaged like while also just earning a bunch of stuff. It feels like manic or with the amount of It is crazy but it is also really fun. The whole time, this like and telling you like what's up, like what's being updated and he's really annoying. Just like the main game, I kind of just want all the voiceover, all that stuff to just stop. This guy is constantly and that's probably my only Otherwise it's cool. And like I said, the amount of depth is pretty surprising and I think even if it's not for everyone, this is gonna keep them There's little things too, which when you get the you feel like you have and also you can drive through There are like a lot of There's a lot to wrap your head around. You can see from the gameplay here. It took me a while to if I'm being honest, That's really it though. We thought some of you guys and we were personally to see what Volume 9 was really all about. It doesn't feel like of the entire game or an expansion, but the little added goodies are cool and honestly an excuse to jump is always good. I just really, really like this series. And I'm gonna continue 'cause like I said, I So that's really it. That's a quick &quot;Before You Buy,&quot; you know how this goes by now. We give you some pros, some cons and some personal opinion. And now I wanna hear yours What's your experience with &quot;Unbound?&quot; Did you jump in last year? Was the style change not or have you been hardcore and you jumped into Volume 9 immediately? If that's the case, I'd of &quot;Lockdown&quot; and all that. It is the early days of how it does evolve and how it's supported, 'cause a lot of this of course comes down to the developers and stuff. But yeah man, let me know And if you like talking games that's all we're really doing here, clicking the like button But thank you for watching and we'll see you next time.