- We found the best time during service time, because and we always have to of our production. (upbeat music) So these chicken thighs that you've seen have been defatted, tenderized. We are going to brine them overnight and then portion them for our different chicken sandwiches. Because we sell up to 200 we found that pounding not only gives us a better allows us to service our chicken Expectations for a food program and bar are definitely different from a traditional restaurant. They need to come out - We launched the food program on this chicken sandwich. Partnered up with Mark Chou, our chef. - So when we get an order, in a little bit of our buttermilk slurry. From there, it goes into our dredge. - Because we opened in the and then there was a period allowed to do outdoor and then delivery. People didn't really know that We had very popular hot honey sandwiches. You know, we have the line - I think at the time it basically is more like - Yeah. - Because we really want to survive. - It gets a few generous and a drizzle of our house hot honey, which is a blend of Sichuan and dried chiles as well. - We're at the Lower East Side of New York and this is Double Chicken Please. So Double Chicken is at the front we serve and at the back we have We close on Monday so we can Our front room, plus our of like 26, 27 drinks already on the menu. In terms of prep it's - This is a typical Monday for us. We have more to come in, but to do fat wash, like 20 And everything looks like a it shrinks to very little. These are our two head So the thing Sumesh is a house-made corn syrup, which we call Red Eye Gravy to in the dish. - So the Red Eye Gravy is on our menu. - Our first edition menu, a lot of drinks were actually inspired we like, all around the world. For example, Red Eye Gravy in 1970s from Florida. And we really like the flavor. So it actually tastes like corn. The corn syrup you This is actually corn flavor. Alright so now we're We're gonna start our house-made So we need to get this done it needs around 24 hours to infuse the flavor. So we try to see how can into a liquid form. And a lot of trial and error, a lot of very not tasty drinks Fat wash is simply just infuse it and put in the freezer. And then once the butter you take it out, strain it out. So the spirits attach all I don't think people we actually go through to because you don't see the process. You only see the final product. We're gonna start throwing dark roasted coffee and dry porcini mushrooms. Not necessarily every to be processed like this way. It can still be a really phenomenal drink. Like the classic cocktail is tasty, but this is just more like, and then get the flavor share the palate we have. This is what we're looking for. If you see the butter it's almost like a brown butter. Alright, now we're gonna strain it. At this stage, we pour one Sort of to wash the ingredients, to get a flavor into the liquid. So we will let it rest for and then put it into And now we're gonna go to get the house-made coffee All right, this is our coffee butter. So just give it a quick taste. I think it's pretty solid, this batch. Yeah, definitely, because coffee note in the end, from the mushroom. And now I'm gonna start So if you can see, we're clear whiskey color-ish. Yesterday it was totally like, dark. After the process, fat wash, but it's little bit more After it's strained, we take this liquid as the So Red Eye Gravy is a breakfast. Usually you have the very buttery sauce and then you put a shot of and pair with house-made corn syrup. Instead of using ham we're So we microwave prosciutto, represent that piece of country ham. So now chef's gonna take and use for our Mushroom Popper dish. - So now that the fat is melted, we're gonna load the They're really just vehicles which is why we decided to use mushrooms for this composition. That's obviously the most having all these savory components and then being able to in a sustainable way to So now that the mushrooms are cooling we're gonna be making the pastry shells for the Shiitake Mushroom Popper. This is an 18-month aged Comte cheese. So this is the shallot with the brandied raisins and from the Butter Raisin Biscuit drink. So this beet soil is the beet pulled from the New York Beet Salad drink. Kind of tastes like corn. That's the dish. - Normally, first thing's first first thing's to cut ice. We used to freeze our own We give that idea, because we don't have So now we buy these 2x2 ice cubes and then we shape it piece by Each ice cube has lots And that's the point that We do this. Take, just take out the sharp edges and then the ice melts One thing for the aesthetic, but another thing is for dilution. Honestly, this is not It's really time-consuming, So I think it's worth You feel more hands on on Probably the only thing in that glass you didn't make is the glass. Everything else, you made it. So this is brioche bread. We're gonna bake it 'til a little bit crusty, a And then we're gonna infuse with alcohol and use that into a drink. So right this moment, we are lay out, and then put it And it smells really It's just, a beautiful smell. So French toast is almost like a flip. It's a styled drink So it's creamy, it's rich, It's based on where I'm from. The current recipe is a burnt toast with whole milk, whole egg, You definitely cannot miss maple syrup. - [Producer] When you tell and they say, &quot;what did you do today?&quot; - I would just say, I make toast. (laughing) So I'm just blending all the maple syrup to all the toast to make sure The city I'm from, Tainan. Everything has sugar, based on history. So I have a sweet tooth. - So here we go. A lot of cooking and sous vide for all the different ingredients. Each can have maybe six to seven different for different drinks. This is the tea leafs, tea Kavalan we say. It's an oolong tea with Taiwanese whiskey. Here we got basil cordial, with some sugar, citrus This is a toast, this Otherwise, if it's not it will just like, be floating on the top. So people probably don't and prepping work behind all the drinks, which is the fun part for us actually. And clearly, we need more space. Gonna put this here. So each water bath also because certain ingredients have to cook at a certain temperatures And then we come back to strain it out and utilize that into drinks. This is our house-made, So this has been in my I really wanted to make it happen. This piece represents a At a certain moment, we did - Like an actual professional. - It's an actual professional chocolatier, and they f***** it up. It's just like, all the It's just not as good And the fun part is actually the pair with a house-made chocolate Oreo, which is inspired from espresso martinis. So imagine a Saturday, You're sitting outside, having French toast as your breakfast, and you're holding a to cure your hangover. This is actually a reverse pairing. You are drinking your espresso martini. So you have a sip, have have a full experience. It is a fun way to - It's French Toast. - At the same time doing from lime, lemon, to cucumber, pineapple, all fresh juice going to the cocktail. We use a slow juicer, try This is going to one of Japanese Cold Noodle. So Japanese Cold Noodle I created back in 2016. At the time I was competing, of the cocktail competitions in the world. We juice the amount we need every day. Especially we juice the but not everything peeled. The skin has a certain green flavor. We want to keep a little Drink is cucumber, pineapple, lime. So it's used, so the cost is quite low but the flavor together is So people like it. Per day, we sell around like but just that one drink keep the lights up for this place. Ice still cutting, still In the same time we're Japanese Cold Noodle. So let's start with pineapple. Yeah, this drink is actually, it looks simple because but it's actually kind all relies on the flavor of juice. And when we opened this It's because the drink actually resonates the cold noodle flavor from When I was (indistinct), that drink tastes like that. So I think that's fun. That's how people Also, I don't want people to order a drink just because it's an award-winning drink. So we changed the name and it actually works really well. Yeah. I would say the pre-batching but just because it's volume. We need to be more Everything that's over 20%, like 40-proof will last for But this is lighter and more fresh stuff. We basically just make a little bit more than what we go through in a day. Sometimes when the volume gets so big you need to adjust the flavor to like, make sure the But even just same juice every day, it still tastes different. So it just requires a lot to make sure the flavor is consistent. The drink basically is my story from Taiwan to New So it's like a Pina Colada-ish drink, and blended with cucumber like cucumber juice and That's it. So as I put the story together, - There you go. - In the front room all the drinks come in the tap, like a tap system. It's all cocktail, right at this moment we don't serve any beer, Most of them are ready for today. Only one or two, we still and hook it up, charge it and ready to go. I'm gonna batch this. And as you can see, for the service today, Faye's Everybody covers different positions. But the keg drink is actually We mix all the ingredients. A lot of ingredients are house-made. For example, like this It's almost like a Yuzu juice, agave syrup, and then house-made cold brew coffee. Has to be cold-infused for So basically just blend But for this one, this So nitro won't really change the flavor. You only change the texture of the drink. So this one I have to make It's right. And then I put it in That's pretty much ready to go. All right. Now we're read to charge this. This is our small keg room. So now hook it on, give it a nice shake. All right. Every day, I will give a to make sure the flavor is, yeah, these are my favorites. So the new addition is it's my favorite. - So far, me and GN and from like, a pretty high So our speed is, we had and then we have our second-generation and we also train them so that we can make sure Yeah. - Ben is doing our newest which is Key Lime Pie. I think that I also Fay and Ben have created, which is every drink we streamline to like 2 or 3 bottles. So we can easily build a drink in a very short period of - This is a pretty normal before the shift starts is, once we've done a lot of it's just a line of people just batching cocktails for service. You know, our style of bartending, using like cobbler shakers, and more that kind of Asian style doesn't necessarily lend itself to speed. So we try to take as, as much service out of the equation by just kind of making sure advanced prep done as possible. So we can make sure in a reasonable amount of time. So yeah, this is like a which is kind of known I don't wanna say annoying, but labor-intensive cocktails to make. I think the original a 19-minute shake. So doing as much as we of the order is great. So we batch as much as we can. You know, so it's basically during service it's just egg white, and just top with soda. - I think design is my background. I would say I started industrial design, a little bit graphic here and there. When I invited Faye to we want to do a bar with For example, we design the design the flavor, and put it together. For example, our newest creation, either Cold Pizza or Key Lime Pie, it all has a design element. When you see the glassware, Now we slowly treat every as a design product to not just the flavor. Also the look, intentionally decide that we can use the drink further down. Cold Pizza. Last week is one of the Even just five days where we reach, we break the record. a decent amount of cover, So we just rock and roll. - [Faye] All right, have a good service. - [Team] Have a good service. - It's 10 to 5:00, and we and had a brief meeting. And I'm going back down to the kitchen. Have a good service. - Right now, we're in the service. We have two stations. Overall, That's a stirring station. So we separate the tickets, stirred drinks and shaken drinks, depends on the situation. - [Mark] So Faye, you should and you should be close on Two chicken wings, please. Next fire, baby artichoke. Mike fire ceviche, razor Faye, fire 2 honey. 2 hot honey on that tray please. - So it's a half dozen - Correct. - I got you. - And like, how do you make - Just, move faster. No, I'm kidding. - I think overall, I just That's it. Lots of things we do. We actually want to make people laugh. No matter the decor, the - [Server] Feel free to ask - [Guest] Thank you. - [GN] Like the back room, the drinks and the front room The back cocktail seems more of like, explaining how we But honestly, those things people do not necessarily need to know. As long as you like the you have a good time, - I mean, everyone goes to right? So, no matter what reason, as long as when, the moment at least you feel, like, happy. You feel like your money's been worth it. I think that's my goal. (upbeat synth music)