Looks like something between udon and soba Hyogo, Japan Mochimugi no yakata Manufacturing plant located in the &quot;Mochimugi no Yakata&quot;. Here, glutinous barley is used to make glutinous barley noodles. Salt Salt and water are stirred by machine Salinity is measured Humidifier is used to stabilize humidity While checking the humidity While watching the humidity and temperature Rotate the kneaded dough to make it ready. 10:00 a.m. Stretching dough Repeat rolling dough in layers Oil is applied to the dough and formed Rolling out the dough into a thinner dough Starch is sprinkled on the dough as it is rolled out. While stretching the noodles, roll them around the two rolling pins in a figure eight pattern Stretching the two rolling pins up and down. Hang it on a pole and stretch it to about 1.2m At this point, the noodles are flipped over with chopsticks so that they do not stick to each other. The noodles are dried in the drying room Measuring the fineness of the noodles Cut off end of noodle, The dried noodles are then steamed Noodle returned to semi-raw state by steam Packing of half-raw noodles in bags 8:00 a.m. &quot;Mochimugi no Yakata&quot; restaurant inside the building You can enjoy &quot;glutinous wheat noodles&quot; and other dishes made with glutinous wheat and local ingredients. Preparing Tororo for barley rice.(mugitoro) Dashi is combined with yam This is a yam called yamatoimo (This yam is) used for barley rice.(mugitoro) &quot;Mochimugi no yakata,&quot; chef. Shaved bonito blended round herring Saba-bushi (mackerel) And mejika (souda gatsuo) I will also use two more types from now on 5 kinds of bonito alone and 6 kinds of kelp This is where it's all about life. This is ten-tsuyu Ingredients for chicken sukiyaki mirin (sweet sake) soy sauce sugar Tuna Squid Now we're going to prepare Mirin Tamari soy sauce Kelp potato starch Ginger mirin Sake Skip alcohol Making tofu with glutinous barley flour Soy milk Bittern Tofu made from glutinous wheat flour It's made from soy milk, so that's the difference. Chawanmushi Preparation of dashi rolls for udon Mochi-mugi noodles 11:00 opening 1 Kamonannbann, 1 barley rice 1 assorted tempura One torotoro-ankake noodle One sinewy noodle(suji) One tazumi egg and torotoro-ankake noodle 1 Suji noodle tempura assortment1 Chibikko set 2, five kinds of noodles1, mugitoro1. Glutinous barley rice Chibikko set Mugi toro set and I think I'll do that too Duck meat Tazumi egg with torotoro-ankake noodle Kamo nannban (Duck Nanban) suji noodles Assorted tempura Delicious! Sinewy meat used for &quot;suji noodles&quot; Sinewy meat kamaage noodles kamaage noodles Kanbei mugitoro set meal Agedashi noodles Tendon(bowl of rice and fried fish) Tendon is made with glutinous wheat rice Tendon (bowl of rice topped with tempura) Miso katsu miso cutlet Miso katsu set meal A group of customers came to the restaurant Delicious! (Staff) What kind of gathering are you having today? Setouchi City, Okayama Prefecture Volunteers get together We're on a bus trip. Looks delicious. (Staff) Is it glutinous barley? Yes. This seems to be glutinous wheat soba noodles (Glutinous barley rice is) glutinous barley in regular rice soft and chewy texture It's delicious. Very good soup stock. Unlike regular soba. It's like between udon and soba (Staff) It's sukiyaki style (Staff) How do you like your chicken? It's delicious. Chicken is delicious The noodles are sticky. (The noodles) are delicious (Staff) What's different about glutinous wheat noodles? They're delicious. Delicious. Looks like &quot;udon&quot; but is not Looks like &quot;ramen&quot; but is not It's glutinous wheat, after all. 3 daily specials, 1 egg Heat up bowls in advance This is &quot;glutinous wheat noodles.&quot; Tenzaru set meal 2 Tenzaru set meal Agedashi-tofu (Fried tofu) (I come to the store) every year. (Staff) Is there a certain time of year you come? (They come) at the right time for strawberry picking (Staff) Can you pick strawberries nearby? Yes. And it's delicious for lunch. There's all kinds of different kinds (to come). (Staff) Do you have any recommendations? The five kinds of noodles are the best You can eat different kinds of noodles. You can order all kinds of flavors. I can eat a lot of different things. zaru 1 chibikko 2 Agedashi 1 Five kinds of noodles1 Yamato tororo Tendon (Before) I came here once on business (At that time) I enjoyed the food. (Staff) Is there a menu item you always order? &quot;Kanbei Mugitoro Set Meal&quot; suji noodle 2 Local specialty torotoro-ankake noodle Delicious. I'll stop by (the store) when I come this way. Because my home is in Himeji. Well, it's close by (I often stop by) Raw egg dissolved in tororo Soy sauce and condiments to taste. Very tasty and tender. This is for real! (The noodles are sticky Delicious Delicious! (I wonder if this is the Kanbei Mugitoro Set Meal It's mugitoro Delicious! (This is the first time you've been here. This is delicious! Delicious! Fried oysters Five kinds of noodles Tenzaru set meal 2. Seasonal meals from December to February When the duck meat becomes firm and white Tenzaru set meal: 1,550 yen Pork tempura torotoro-ankake noodle with tazumi egg 850 yen Since 1995, Mochimugi no Yakata It was opened just after the Great Hanshin-Awaji Earthquake. It's been about 27 years now. (Fukusaki is a town of &quot;yokai&quot; (monsters) and &quot;glutinous barley&quot; . Take your time, relax, and enjoy the glutinous barley. You see it. We try to create a space where you can relax (Not udon (since the opening) We've been selling it as &quot;glutinous barley Noodles.&quot; The &quot;aroma&quot; not found in udon (glutinous barley noodles have been popular for many years.