- First of all, we all know that Iraq is not a safe It's not welcoming, but - Let's talk about Iraq. - Twenty years ago. - We have no ambition in Iraq. - Deadline for Saddam - The safety of America depends on the outcome of the battle - Saddam was threatening the US with weapons of mass destruction? - [Interviewee] Yes. - Nuclear weapon. Nuclear weapon. - That's news to me. I'm sorry. - [Reporter] That turned - [Reporter] No chemical, - [Reporter] A rebellion - [Reporter] The Shias who began oppressing the Sunnis. - Iraq. - [Field Reporter] for the American's greater enemy. - [Host] They didn't just they wanted to set up an Islamic state. - [Reporter] Prime Minister came to Mosul to declare the city liberated. - Welcome to Iraq. - Very safe. We'd like to - Good morning from Iraq. I landed around 3:00 AM. It's now 7:30 AM. When I arrived in this hotel, there was a security guy They kept my passport I don't know for what reason, but yeah, this is how it works here. Anyway, we go now and So many different monuments and this one, iconic one where they're Paramedics, I don't really but people come here for photo shoot. For example, see those guys over there? They're doing a photo shoot. Those guys behind me, they're rehearsing something which is paying honor to fallen soldiers. It's such an iconic place, very important in Baghdad People approach me from I think there was one guy from Iraq and another one from Iran, and we started to talk about football about Argentina, about This is what I say, every time I travel, football is really uniting and hope that we can have All right, so I came to a park. Normally, it's okay to film. There's a lot of checkpoints, So I need to constantly put People are really, really super Having picnics here, saying good morning, where are you from? Super, super, super, super great vibe. This is definitely something So when I have lunch, we Let me show you how they Oof. So grill. - Welcome to Iraq. - This is what vegetarians You can see just rice, tomatoes, salad. - Hummus. - Yeah. They don't add olive oil like in other countries here. - Some do. - It really depends. - Just in this here in Baghdad? - No, in this restaurant, they don't. - In this particular. - Or they do actually have it somewhere, but they mix it. 'Cause I was curious like But it's still very tasty. I like it. - Mm. - People do it very differently. - But the winner, to be honest, the bread. - The bread. - I told you the the bread is really good. - [Ale] Yeah, amazing. Why people put so much sugar on the tea? - Most, at least Iraqis, almost (Ale laughs) and if they most likely, they also love sugar. We just love sugar. - For me, it's perfect this way. But these guys, they put in such a small size which but hey, you like it. That's important. - Welcome to Iraq. - I love how these guys make bread. I've seen this in so many countries, but this looks absolutely amazing. Wow, this is incredible. Lime tea. Very, very, very good, actually. I never ever smoke. Let's try. So we're going to play Dominoes. People love dominoes here. - So dominoes is very Most of the people, they play Four people, two teams. Each team will have seven objects. We start like this. Who will start? The one with double six? Usually, the game will be finished when the team reach 151 points. How we collect points? Each one of us as a team will finish all the seven objects in his hand. Then we count the points and the loser teams in both hands. - [Ale] How long does it take? - Almost like 45 minutes to one hour. Each number starts from blank to six. And each number, it has seven objects. For example, this 1, 2, 3, and then there is four fives in the game. - So second round, we won, 28, 23. - Yes! That's what I won! - So I have to say this but Ali play alone. He's so good. No, no. With your help. You are giving me really a good twist. - Yeah. - Like the midfield in football. - Yeah. - You give me the ball. The good pass. So we just finished this dominoes. I thought it was simply just but there's actually some technique, strategies to play this game. And in Iraq, they play on the So I guess that's the reason Anyway, going back to the 'cause tomorrow, we'll We're gonna go to the Old Baghdad, and we're gonna see markets. We're gonna talk to people, how life is in Iraq, so We're going now to explore hopefully, we're gonna So this is very strategic. You have the shop which is with cream for breakfast. And then right next to it, So many people stopping by so we will try this (engines revving) (car horn honking) We want this like with a cream and that's it, going to work. Everyone drinking tea here for breakfast. Coffee is not that common. So yeah, tea, pastry, and cream. This is how they make the most Really, really good. - The protestor to most likely is gonna be here. The epicenter for all the - [Ale] How about celebrations? - Yes. Like for example, New Year's, there was- - Yeah, there's also like currently, it's a nice park. - [Ale] Yeah. - Just to be different, by This all goes back to I don't think you've ever heard about it, but it was really big. - [Ale] Oh. (police speaking in Arabic) (Ale and police laugh) [Ale] No, very good. I had a very interesting chat We were talking about they were telling me that One star is missing. They only have two stars here. Where's the third star? These guys are literally moving the whole thing by themselves. Super, super, super strong, and they love pictures as well. No need to explain to you like You can tell the vibe on the street, how friendly people are, I don't know they are... Just curious about what You might be at the beginning, not scared, but you might be wondering and don't take it this negatively. It's actually a positive thing. It's for your security and Like making sure there's And even them, when you talk to them, you can talk about football. Yeah, normal people, just So far, Baghdad really, big surprise for me, but I'm enjoying it. These guys are literally or getting rid of the bad parts and then they sell it here in the market. This is like a big bazaar. (upbeat drums music) Can I try one? It's actually pretty good. Another section of the market, we can see vegetables and fruits. Clothes on this part, but Proper, proper, proper market. Pineapples you have here. Strawberries are massive. Where these strawberries from? - [Merchant] Turkiye. Nice one. Cheese, olives. This guys are super cool, some of them, they kind of want to But obviously, I need to keep walking and see other areas as well. Interestingly, in this market, there are a lot of tea The thing that's never missing In this market, you can truly Clothes, carpets, souvenirs, coffee, tea, battery, cheese, olives, oil, antiques. I don't even know what's Like literally, anything in this market in Baghdad. - So they will sort of use this. They will actually hold some sort of like these small snacks or maybe Maybe even, I don't know, but Henna, Henna ceremony. We actually have a ceremony called this. - [Ale] Only Iraqi. From Iraq, handmade. - From here. - [Ale] From here? - [Ale] This one has a message. - [Merchant] This is for. - [Ale] Ahh. Got it, got it, got it. You can write something- - [Merchant] Yeah, yeah. - And this is Aladdin lamp. This is the oldest story- - [Ale] Yeah, that's the story. - in Baghdad. This is the copper market. Honestly, I would buy, have enough space to And this is a problem for me in general when I travel and so there's only so or I can't really get with me. That's why I only get the little flag of a country when I travel, All the copper, well-made, and you can see all the people here with the machines fixing This is section by section markets. Let me show you actually this guy 'cause I think what he's doing is actually quite interesting. He's rubbing this ones and and then they all come to Then I guess you sell it, right? Yeah. I found that pretty cool. But it's like everyone is a handyman here. It's not just, you know, salespeople that they offer No, they're actually It's kind of an art as Super interesting, but again, unfortunately, I don't have space to take some of this with me. But I love seeing how they're - Argentina. - Yeah. - Argentine. - Okay. - Everyone knows Messi, right? - I love Argentina. Yeah. - Champion, Qatar. I love this. (speaking in Arabic) This place was once one of the biggest and most important during the Golden Age in Baghdad. Today, this is more They're doing some maintenance, and I think the ticket is around $1, so I highly recommend you to visit it. The architecture is truly stunning. So we just passed the leather market, heading to the stationery market. Again, as I told you, this Don't think that this market has literally everything in one place. Sections and sections. So it depends what you're trying to get. - My name is Abeer Faris. You can call me Beero. I am a medical student, So I met Ale in the street, and he was very welcoming, and I was very welcoming. - [Ale] What are the about Iraq, but these things are not true? - Okay, first of all, we all that Iraq is not a safe or it's not welcoming But actually, the truth is it's very safe and it has a very beautiful places you can visit and see. And we are a really friendly people, and we love everyone outside, and we'd like to show you our culture, our places, our food, - [Ale] Yeah. - [Beero] Maybe they think or we don't have that much any building. - [Ale] Is that true? - That's not true. We have many beautiful We have the ancient ones, the modern ones. We have many beautiful - [Ale] Can you explain a they need to be fully covered? - In Iraq, especially in Yeah, a variation of women. You can find from the to women like me, or woman, So we can find a very variation in women, and it's not all of them, or something like that. You can, we also love fashion and. - [Ale] We can tell. We can tell! - Yes. Yes. Thank you. We love fashion. We love the outfits. You can find anything here, Now, let me ask you something. - What do you want to ask me? - Okay, yes. He has been now I want to ask him, what is your most beautiful - Okay, so the past two days, - Yes. And today is the Old Baghdad, But let me tell you, I can tell you what was completely unexpected to me. - Yes. - People. - People. Because first of all, the country so far, looks beautiful. - Yes. - The city looks incredible. - The vibe, the energy. - When I mean people is, you know, I'm always with my camera and doing this stuff, and in terms of what I doing and all that. In Iraq, particularly in Baghdad, it's actually the opposite. People wanna be on camera, People wanna know where you're from. Like you. - Like you, like you guys that you approached me Like this is the hospitality that you will find on the People are like that, really, like completely positive energy, very friendly, smiling, like And this is not something when we come here a lot of news from certain sources. But it's completely the opposite. This is a safe place. Well, safe as everywhere Like this is no a hundred in the world, but it's And if you come here, 'cause I'm completely natural here. I have no plan. - I'm just walking with my No issues, even with the police. We were talking about about Qatar, like- by the way, Argentina. - Yeah, exactly. So that's what I think - Okay, thank you. That was so emotional. - [Beero's brother] Then, - Oh, okay. - Yeah, it was absolute amazing. Okay, you wanna bring me another? - Yeah, tell me. You have - He was asking if the tea is good. - Oh, the tea. The tea was good. You guys put a lot of sugar on the tea. - Yes, yes. I hate that. - [Beero's brother] When I buy a tea, I want him to put- - Minimize it. - Yeah. - That's the minimum. Like three teaspoons of sugar. Anyway, I think, guys, you've - Very nice experience, thank you. - Yeah. - I'm exploring the Tigris. This is incredible. This And now, we're here. So you can hear already the prayers. You hear? (Imam chanting continues) This is the local cake here. Cannot distinguish exactly Here on my left, you that visited this place, I think we're making history today. Pomegranate juice from Wow. How old this is. This is definitely a vintage market. I guess this is bringing some I think it's interesting, But it's cool to see people not We're done with the old town. Now, going for lunch. They have everything ready. That could be here, like some meat? - Kebab. Kebab here. There you go. See how it looks like? - Yesterday's one was cooked in tandoor. You know what the tandoor is? The sort of the whole thing. This one is cooked like an oven. So like, like this. It's much more thicker and When it's opened, you in it and make a very easy sandwich. - Just finished lunch in this place that doesn't even appear in Google Maps, but it was delicious. So we're driving now one hour, going to see the sunset in a very special place. Yeah, bombs were exploding There were a lot of so this building is very tarnished. The reason you can also is that nobody cares This was a zone of conflicts for many, many years, decades, perhaps, and it's not owned by anyone really. With the most prayers, the day is coming to an All right, so they took the camera away 'cause technically you cannot film with a professional Well, yeah, this is my phone. It's not a shopping mall. It looks like a mall, but There's a lot of very and yet, this is also Iraq. Another surprise, this is also Iraq. Anyway, we're gonna have to try something different and see another side of Iraq as well. And then go to bed 'cause tomorrow, we have a very, very packed day as well, and hopefully, you will enjoy it because we go into We're gonna still explore more of Iraq. Good night. Thank you for watching.