Flying high over Berlin on April 17, 1945, precision that had made him the Soviet Union's of American B-17 Flying Fortresses under attack As Kozhedub chased away the German attackers, He turned sharply, scanning the air around him. had mistaken his La-7 for an enemy aircraft. American pilots kept coming, their guns blazing. dodging another burst of 50-caliber gunfire. As German aircraft faced an impossible choice: shoot Despite graduating at the top of his class in eastern Ukraine, Ivan Kozhedub was In 1942, while the skies over the Easter Front and the flash of gunfire, the Ukrainian battle. As a 22-year-old Sergeant, Kozhedub a base in Central Asia. For more than a some never to return, others bringing The months dragged on, and his "I requested a transfer to the front more than But as he shaped others for combat, he was also training himself--preparing for Later that same year, Kozhedub was sent to a Lavochkin La-5. A leap forward for Soviet this new model offered superior especially at lower altitudes. it could match the German Messerschmitts and the perfect aircraft for the kind of aggressive Once he mastered the new aircraft and In March 1943, the Red Army--desperate Senior Sergeant Kozhedub to The 240th was no ordinary unit--they'd been the Soviet Union. Many of its pilots school where Kozhedub had once been an he soon found himself among familiar Russians, and Ukrainians--all part of what ideal environment to channel his skills and On March 26, Kozhedub climbed into combat mission. That morning, the cold suit as he guided the aircraft into It wasn't long before his squadron spotted two Thinking he could down a couple of enemy pilot lined up his gunsight on one of the Out of nowhere, a group of Messerschmitt and as his aircraft shuddered under been so focused on his target that he Realizing he was caught in a trap, trying to pull his battered fighter out and his La-5 riddled with bullet holes, he The mission had ended in disaster--his aircraft his commander praised his skill in landing it was a harsh lesson. Raw he needed patience and discipline. This "Despite general failures, our like myself, had their families in Nazi-occupied Despite his late start, Ivan Kozhedub joined the largest tank battle in history, cutting down Soviet forces mercilessly. tactics. Two years of brutal conflict with the develop specialized formations and countermeasures not about to let his earlier fiasco repeat itself. skies over Kursk, Kozhedub spotted a Ju-87 Stuka throttle, closing in fast, and ignoring the chaos trigger. A burst tore through the bomber's tail, trailing smoke before crashing into Section Break Kozhedub's name quickly began to spread By mid-August, the newest Soviet Ace had already to Junior Lieutenant. His unit soon moved for Petlyakov Pe-2 bombers, supporting the Following a brutal summer, Soviet pilots chipping away at the Luftwaffe's dominance. fall, Kozhedub's regiment clashed with Goring's into retreat. In a matter of just ten days, Aggressive, tireless, and skilled, and his connection with his aircraft was almost he spoke to his plane with the same [QUOTE] "The motor works accurately. The I am not alone--my fighting friend is with me." earning him the title of Hero of the By May, with 38 air victories under his Upon being promoted to Captain and given command new role would pull him away from the frontlines. Front with the elite 176th Despite his initial doubts, Kozhedub quickly was no ordinary unit. Over the war, it carried half being lone-wolf operations--missions that His new assignment came with an all-new aircraft: was faster than the La-5 and more agile. It handling, and, most importantly, it wielded in his initial sorties, where he was often teamed enemy aircraft with unmatched ferocity. "Day in and day out, we would fly in the the squadrons at noon. At 9:00pm, we used to an account of the results of the day." During a fierce skirmish over enemy territory, engine suddenly came to a stop. Undeterred, he below, diving faster and faster. Thankfully, just roared back to life, and, with a sharp pull on the treetops, then banked gently and returned to For the rest of the year, Kozhedub's In late September 1944, the Soviet Air to the Baltic, tasked with facing off by Major Helmut Wieck. Nazi propaganda claimed over 130 victories--a number sure the Squadron Leader and his men knew the odds Sure enough, in a matter of only one week, prized aces. His comrades added another nine to Luftwaffe reeling from a crushing 2-to-12 loss, the Germans to significantly scale back That same November, Kozhedub led just eight of force of 30 fast and agile Focke-Wulf the Soviet pilots pressed moving in perfect synchronization. By the planes had been torn from the sky--three Once, while flying over Iasi, Romania, he spotted shooting down two before being surrounded by enemy he instead relied on a series of clever pushing his plane to its limits until By the end of the year, Captain Ivan Kozhedub Still, there were probably many more that eagerly tallied every potential victory, Kozhedub only recorded those he saw not counting the ones he downed with his wingman's plane should be added to his record, he would Despite the dozens of victories, Captain's While others sought every praise and recognition the mission, and loyal to his squadron and, most By early 1945, the once-mighty Luftwaffe had in on Berlin. But the Germans still had one The world's first operational jet fighter, hour--faster than anything the Allies had in the devastating rocket payloads, the Me-262 was built on Allied air superiority. invincible--but not to Ivan Kozhedub. mission north of Frankfurt with his wingman Dmitry 2,170 feet--a jet flying low and fast along the flying the unusual aircraft--it was Karl Lange, boasting 180 victories to his name. eager to bring down the elusive Soviet his prey was the one with the upper hand. the Me-262 at full throttle, knowing he Titorenko fired first, forcing the jet to Without hesitation, the top Soviet ace lined up the Me-262 transformed into a fireball, its and precision of a propeller-driven La-7. is still considered one of the earliest cases of As the war began to wrap up, the Late in February 1945, Major Kozhedub and the frontlines when they spotted 13 Focke-Wulf and attacked. Kozhedub downed three German planes, But it wasn't just the Luftwaffe that Kozhedub on April 17, 1945, while defending a group of Kozhedub's La-7 was mistaken for the enemy. turned on him, he had no other choice but a friendly fire incident. Although it became part of the lore surrounding his career. Berlin, Kozhedub and his wingman suddenly loaded with bombs and heading for Soviet "The odds were obviously not in our favor, aircraft were heading for our troops,." Titorenko closed in at maximum speed and fired The Fw-190 spiraled down into the city below. immediately tightened into a defensive circle, But Kozhedub and Titorenko didn't hold back, and tearing a wedge into the defensive the Germans jettisoned their bombs, convinced force--not just two daring Soviet fighters. Fw-190 as they turned to leave, as they yet another bomber. Reaching the enemy on the in time, and according to him: [QUOTE] When they finally landed, their fuel tanks were had risen to 62 downed enemy aircraft. completed 330 combat sorties, engaging confirmed victories--the highest number of air the war. His unparalleled skill, particularly After the conflict, Kozhedub continued serving commanded the 324th Fighter Air Division. Although under his leadership, the division claimed with minimal losses, this time against Kozhedub continued serving and was Marshal of Aviation before