(light dramatic music) - [Narrator] A remote archipelago lies off the coast of Africa. (light music) Islands at the edge of the They were taken by Spanish conquistadors on their way to America. Today, they attract millions Human history has certainly left its mark, but the seven islands (light music continues) (wind whooshing) Sand dunes, forests, Far from other continents, unique landscapes have It all started 20 million years ago. (dramatic music) Deep in the Atlantic something is brewing; volcanoes erupt on the seabed. (dramatic music continues) The Earth's crust pierces (light guitar music) The Canaries were born of (light music) In the beginning, a volcanic Within months, bacteria Algae and lichen follow. Green on the black lava. The world of the fire mountains, the visible beginnings of life itself. Mount Teide rises almost It's a sleeping giant. It last erupted in 1909. (light music) Innumerable eruptions created one of the world's great natural wonders. Volcanoes, craters, and merge in a rugged, forbidding landscape. (waves crashing) (ethereal music) While the islands were a the ocean floor teemed with life. But below the surface, too, Hot gases can escape poisoning the surrounding water. Immobile lifeforms meet an untimely end. (ethereal music continues) Ancient creatures continue to inhabit this strange nether world, many (light music) When cold water meets molten lava, the result can be powerful explosions that sink entire coastlines. Or complex networks of underwater caves stretching far inland. (light music continues) These caves are home to sea Isolated from the outside world, surreal life forms have developed in a submarine cave on Lanzarote. (light music) Tiny white crabs, barely completely blind. Rays have inhabited the As have these bizarre angel sharks. (light music) As the islands rose from the seabed, these creatures had to adapt More and more species (waves crashing) The island of El Hierro rose making it the archipelago's It was home to an animal whose but now has one last refuge: tiny, inaccessible Roque Chico de Salmor. (waves crashing) It's hard to believe any (gulls cawing) But there is one. It is the El Hierro giant lizard. Between 150 and 200 of them They grow to more than half a meter, despite the apparent lack of food. The sparse vegetation shouldn't and yet these animals even find the energy to reproduce here. (leaves rustling) (light music) The cliffs of La Gomera like a desert mountain range, dry and hot. (light music continues) At higher elevations, however, the island's appearance changes. Crowded in deep mist, a The monteverde cloud forest. Laurel trees grow close together, forming an impenetrable thicket. The forests are a remnant the last of their kind on the planet. (birds chirping) A rare bird inhabits the where the vegetation is thinner. (wings flapping) The laurel pigeon. Like the forest itself, the It arrived from Africa when Cut off from the mainland it can only exist in (pigeon cooing) Of course, the animal most is the canary. This is its original (birds chirping) Spanish explorers took its beautiful song and as a symbol of luxury and sophistication. (birds chirping) Canaries like sweet things, they were once known as sugar birds. Today's canaries are still of the arbutus tree. (birds chirping) The fruit they drop is (leaves rustling) For example, the common chaffinch. (leaves rustling) You can't be too selective on an island surrounded by the ocean, You just have to adapt. (light music) From afar, if it looks like but the area around El Teide Freezing cold, blistering and powerful ultraviolet rays The Mount Teide bugloss can withstand the difficult conditions, growing a tower of red But it only manages this once in its life. The more flowers, the higher by passing insects, all its hope of creating the next generation. (bugs buzzing) (waves crashing) Far from the mainland with very specific abilities. (light music) On a rocky outcrop on Tenerife lives one of the most endangered plants There are just 11 left in the world. (light music continues) This plant entered into a With a reptile. The lizards feed on the plant's blossoms. The sweet nectar of the lotus The secret of the plant's survival: its pollen is located on When the lizard stretches for the nectar, pollen is brushed onto its head. The lizard then moves on to the next plant and pollinates it. Without the lizards, lotus it would vanish forever. (light music) Life on the Canary Islands At the foot of the nor fertile earth, and yet the Canary Islands pine. This tree uses a strong taproot to anchor itself to the ground. Additional roots spread to gather nutrients from a broad area. (light music continues) Because the root systems are so expansive, there's plenty of space between the trees. (light music continues) The sparse pine forests to a bird whose origins (birds chirping) The Tenerife blue chaffinch. The plumage of the males is The chaffinches prefer building their nests in And they're not the only birds here. (birds chirping) These sparse forests are also inhabited by African blue tits and woodpeckers. This young blue tit can already fly, but it still depends on (birds chirping) The chaffinches, on the other hand, will breed later in the year. These females still have Finally, the moment arrives. (birds chirping) (ground rustling) Pine cone season. The seeds of the pine The chaffinches have matched to the lifecycle of the trees. In summer, ripe cones fall to the ground. It's easy for the birds to (birds chirping) This is the perfect time (birds chirping) (light music) At heights of 2,000 meters and more, giant Canary Island pines But living in a volcanic neighborhood can be extremely dangerous. (dramatic music) Glowing lava ignites whatever it touches. (fire rustling) Volcanic eruptions destroy Fires spread unhindered, (light dramatic music) Once the fire has run its course, the full extent of the The Canary Island pines are Their bark protected the sensitive pith. The secret of their survival that burn up fast and then extinguish. The flames have nothing to and pass on. Fire brings new colors to the forest. (light music) For some plants, fire is a The ashes leave minerals the plants to germinate. (light music continues) In summer, the cooler, reaches the northern side of the island. The steep slopes block it's progress, rising air cools and condenses, thick clouds flow into (light music continues) In places, magical forests have sprung up, a far cry from the arid volcanic desert. Life in here is determined by the clouds. The mist helps lichen, ferns (light music continues) Here, the pine needles of an evergreen paradise. The long thin needles comb the clouds, creating water drops that (light music continues) (waves crashing) On Fuerteventura, there to be watered by the trade winds. Life here must withstand heat and drought. (birds squawking) The cream-colored courser This graceful bird scans in an upright position, as high as it can. With its sand colored in the rocky scree. These birds lay their Their mother's soft plumage in the harsh, stony desert. (birds chirping) Cream-colored coursers but mothers encourage their unborn chicks with delicate high-pitched calls. Soon, the offspring will reply, but first they must survive (ravens cawing) Brown-necked ravens settle (ravens cawing) There's little to hunt in this landscape, but during the breeding and helpless chicks. (ominous music continues) The stone-curlew does everything slowly to avoid drawing attention to itself. (ground rustling) (light dramatic music) The brown-necked ravens When the courser feels relying on its natural camouflage. (raven caws) Brooding mothers only move to draw the ravens away from their eggs. (ominous music continues) But ravens are intelligent birds. They spot the slightest change Bird's eggs are easy prey. This time, the mother She must watch as her brood is destroyed. (ravens cawing) For the others, the struggle This female is more fortunate. Her eggs have remained After three long weeks, (birds chirping) (waves crashing) A winter storm has gathered Now it sweeps the islands. (light dramatic music continues) Hurricanes whip the water into a frenzy. (thunder rumbling) Temperatures drop below zero. A blizzard follows. (light dramatic music continues) Unheard of weather for the Canaries. (wind whistling) The snow falls for days, masses of cold air collide with the flanks of the high volcanoes. The fire mountains become a sea of white. (light dramatic music continues) Lower down, water (water splashing) The forest that usually from the clouds soaks up the (light music) The colorful blossoms of are bright spots in the monotonous green of the winter forest. (light music continues) There's a reason the plant has (birds chirping) Its blossom attracts migrant birds. These plants have adapted The chiffchaff is after the sweet nectar. As it reaches in, its head shaking the pollen loose, which it transfers to the next blossom. (birds chirping) (light dramatic music) After days, the storm finally moves on. Temperatures rise rapidly. The snow will soon vanish, but for awhile El Teide (light music) (waves crashing) On Fuerteventura, too, the storm is over. (light music continues) The first cream-colored courser Wet, blind, and completely helpless. This young bird can't survive but it'll have to leave the (baby squeaking) The mother must now pay The second chick will hatch it any moment. These stone-curlews hatched at dawn. (birds chirping) They're still a little unsteady. Their only protection is the camouflage of their mottled plumage. (ominous music) A raven is particularly keen It's watching for telltale movements. (ravens cawing) Meanwhile, the courser The young bird is determined The parents are now especially attentive, surveying the landscape. The second chick emerges from its egg. This is a critical moment. The mother immediately It mustn't attract the (light dramatic music) It's early morning and the stone-curlews begin to coax their young out of the nest. (light dramatic music continues) They're barely able to stand, Step by unsteady step, make their way over the stony ground. (birds chirping) With one just four hours old, the courser chicks are also (birds chirping) Using food as a lure, the as far from the nest as possible. It will be four long and the greatest danger will have passed. (ravens cawing) (chicks chirping) (ominous music) The erosion of wind and the summits of the volcanoes. (light music) But Mount Teide, rising is a spectacular sight. El Teide, third highest it'll continue to grow as long as it stays active beneath the surface. Between the islands there (light music continues) Conditions here are ideal Pilot whales are nomads. They cross the world's (whales screeching) Each pod is led by a dominant male. His knowledge and experience decide the fate of his relatives. Some pilot whales have gotten used to the perfect conditions between the islands and stay here permanently. (light music continues) (water splashing) The whales are not the only Common dolphins cruise the seas in search of rich fishing areas, constantly communicating with each other. (light music continues) As befits a sophisticated society, pilot whales are also always in contact. Each family has its own to coordinate its movements (light music continues) The pilot whales have developed an extremely sensitive Although the whales spend much they mainly hunt large deep sea squid. They can pinpoint their prey's even 800 to a thousand (light music continues) While diving, the whales Once they vanish into the depths, their survival depends on their relatives. (gulls cawing) Shrieking gulls circle They breed in a large rising out of the sea. (gulls cawing) The chicks hide, only the parents arrive with fresh food. (gulls cawing) The gull colony is a godsend Without the gulls, the lizards would starve (gulls cawing) (light dramatic music) The chicks are clumsy and vulnerable. The hungry lizards observe (gulls cawing) (light music) Every minute, more adult gulls take off from the rock and fly away. (waves crashing) Their destination: the the main land to this tiny rock. (gulls cawing) The plateau is home to Since biblical times, have been considered a plague, but they're a blessing for the gulls that can simply grab them in their beaks. (light music continues) The great feast lasts a month. Long enough to rear their young on nutritious insect protein. (light music) The gulls make their return An ornithological airlift ensures the chicks on the rock never go hungry. (gulls cawing) There are more grasshoppers could possibly consume. (gulls cawing) Occasionally, they'll have to wait while the adult tries to bring This is the moment the They eat whatever the There's more than enough in this breeding season. (gulls cawing) (light dramatic music) The excess protein helps the rest of the year, and even breed. It's the secret of their survival. Roque de Salmor gives them shelter, the breeding gulls do the rest. (waves crashing) The Canary Islands are a with an amazing range of climates, landscapes, and unique species. (birds chirping) Animals and plants have entered on these remote islands. And life forms that have survive on the Canaries. (light music continues) The entire archipelago is a confined world where one aspect of But if just one element fails, the entire system could collapse. (light music continues) If that were to happen, the Canary Islands would return to what they were millions of years ago: a barren volcanic desert. (light music continues) (light music) (light dramatic music)