The average American says they need to earn $233,000 a comfortable. But in 2021, American workers on average $75,203 annually. Americans are sort of looking at how much money they ends up being basically three times what the average And to be essentially wealthy or really successful, 72% of Americans said they weren't financially secure And more than a quarter of Americans said they'll By the numbers, their debt is lower and their savings anxious about what's going to happen next, if they a secure retirement. With well over half of Americans living paycheck to financial goals. There are actually millions of people struggling. It's not something that people want to talk about. But if you are in a place where your financial and it's not your fault. So how did it become so difficult to be financially it? Let's do some budgeting. Americans working full-time earned a median monthly quarter of 2023. The average worker takes home 75.2% of gross wages shrinking the take-home pay to about $3,308. And that just isn't enough to cover the cost of living The cost of health care, that has skyrocketed. The cost of attending college has skyrocketed. The cost of purchasing a home has skyrocketed. But nowhere has anyone said wage growth is up 15%, Take a look at some of the most essential expenses for The median monthly rent in the U.S is $2,029 as of That amount already accounts for over 46% of the But most US agencies classify spending more than 30% as being rent burdened. Meanwhile, the median mortgage payment for a $1,957 per month. However, a common rule of thumb advises spending 28% mortgage payments. For the median gross monthly earnings, that translates As we talked to households and talked to consumers out housing is the big issue. You know, rent, rent, rent, mortgage, mortgage, It is the biggest concern that people aren't going to Inflation is really hurting individuals having And I think sometimes people, we underestimate that if uncertainty everywhere. Housing is also the reason why cities have become more Americans said it would require more than $1 million like San Francisco, New York, and Southern California. This is why we've seen some migration or mobility in a high-cost state like California or New York. We really want to sort of pack up and go to an area is those places that were cheaper before are now Americans spent on average $690.75 on food every month, to the latest data from the Bureau of Labor That amount is significantly higher than any of USDA's generous and liberal food plans. Add the out-of-pocket health expenditures that cost every month, and you get a total expense of $2,816.17 renters and $2,744.17 for home owners. That amount already accounts for 85% of the median and over 82% for an average homeowner. This is excluding other essential expenses like Many Americans are really struggling with just the and housing. Utility bills have gone up. Car insurance has gone up. Homeowner's insurance has gone up. And how can they pay for them but also meet other Budgeting experts advise Americans to spend just 50% of essentials, 30% on wants, and 20% on savings or paying We see that allocation shifting significantly where 75% of their take-home just on needs, which leaves wants and very little for saving for your financial So depending upon where you live and of course your target allocation. So much of managing your financial life in America Many households are not able to show up and impose a finances. Many are still in this reactionary space ends meet. The Federal Reserve has implemented 11 interest rate 2022, but more than a third of Americans said rising Higher interest rates really can stand in the way of or decisions that people want to engage in and home Look at the person who was going to buy a house that years ago. Their monthly payment would have been less Now it's about $3,400. And it's the same house, right? The only thing that has changed is the interest rate. Purchasing a car is more expensive. It's more expensive to maintain a balance on a credit the best-qualified individual being at 20.5% and other 30%. The cost of capital is going up very rapidly and many of toeholds we saw for lower-income households was loans and to other things in a relatively flat economy The ability to access credit, both for small as the financial system becomes more risk-averse in Credit is essential because Americans don't have the More than 40% of Americans blamed insufficient financial insecurity. For a lot of people, just to feel subjectively, feel of savings. A lot of financial planners will say three That's for many people, so overwhelming that they More than half of Americans today said they didn't have including 22% that said they had no emergency savings It doesn't take unemployment to really knock somebody they're among the many Americans who say they cannot pay that from their savings. The reality is, if expenses are routinely higher than away meaningful sums. There are many, many households who do the verb of You see money go in to their account all the time. It just doesn't stay there because they are routinely money and use it for some kind of income shock or 36% of Americans said they had more credit card debt According to Experian, an average American holds a $96,371, which includes several loan products like loans, and mortgages. More than a quarter of Americans said debt was what Debt is a way of channeling some of our financial effective tool. Many of us are fans of credit cards that have rewards, But if you're not paying that principal or debt off double-digit percentage interest rates hit and that can aspects of your personal finances. How do we properly address this so that people cannot debt and necessities, but can even think about emergency savings which causes financial stability or goal of creating future financial stability in The fact that many Americans are living in financial a whole. There's a reason why we measure and monitor very consumer sentiment, because what populates those data like inflation and the strength of the job market. I think Covid really showed us that households when security, are actually the primary foundation of are so based on consumer spending in this country. Public policy can greatly improve Americans' chances of So, for example, Social Security is the bedrock of most It's not the only source of their retirement income, And we know that Social Security needs some reforms in And then also anything we can do to make sure that opportunities, emergency savings opportunities at benefits, whether that's health insurance or insurance You know, employers are a key part of this too. And public policies play a big role in terms of what it. The households' willingness to work toward financial Ultimately, the answer here is that solutions have to well as the household level. And so at some level, we all need to try to own our well as we can across the range of areas like Financial advisors say the first step is to have a What do you want to achieve personally? What do you want to achieve at work? When do you want to retire? What do you want to do for others? And write that down. But the key to success comes down to budgeting. Everyone should budget. What we say is it's not what you earn, it's what you And so think about and have some transparency of where And then make sure the budget that you have aligns If you say you want to retire early, are you saving If you want to put your children through college, if student loans? Are you paying more on your credit Make sure that your budget aligns with your goals. There are actually millions of people struggling. It's not something that people want to talk about. But if you are in a place where your financial it's not your fault. Many people who have really high incomes and a lot of So don't feel like this is your fault or something to You know, we all have to deal with this in different acknowledge that and deal with it and not try to avoid