TOYOTA'S BIG BET: reluctant to embrace EVs. Even though they were one of the first people the Toyota Prius, they haven't been as enthusiastic They were even actively lobbying against EVs. In fact, they were the 3rd biggest lobbyist by oil giants. And it wasn't just Toyota either. All the Japanese automakers including Nissan And with all the EV hype over the past couple a massive mistake. But, more recently, the picture is starting For starters, the EV market is crashing hard. Tesla's deliveries are down year over year, their stock is down 65%. But at least, Tesla is already profitable as needed. Rivian and Lucid on the other hand are losing sell, and at this point, they're just trying Even legacy automakers who took a big plunge In fact, Ford lost $4.7 billion on their EVs In stark contrast, things are going better They just put in a record high in terms of sold in 2023. And their fundamentals are looking quite healthy In fact, over the last 12-month period, they For perspective, that's more than double earnings. Considering these stellar fundamentals, I that Toyota stock is making new all-time highs is getting crushed due to high-interest rates. So, was Toyota right about EVs all along? Was it just a short-term bubble that Toyota Or are we just going through an EV slump after Well, let's find out. BIASED INTENTIONS: with insiders, and exclusive tech analysis, But anyway, with the EV market in shambles, through all the hype, and to a degree, they In fact, Toyota's former CEO, Akio Toyoda and that the lack of supporting infrastructure But, this doesn't tell the full story as it's actually quite biased and to understand As an island state, one of the biggest historical production. Japan doesn't have any crude oil or natural resources at home. So, almost all of Japan's energy consumption not an exaggeration. 94% of Japan's energy crude oil and other fossil fuels. Things are so unstable that Japan even often avoid blackouts. But, if energy is so hard to come by in Japan, to embrace EVs? Why was the Toyota Prius launched way back Well, historically, Japan's energy dependence While the majority of Japan's energy has nowhere near 94% energy dependency. And, for a hot minute, it seemed like Japan due to clean energy sources and more importantly Back in the 90s and 2000s, Japan was one of During the peak of it, roughly a third of to Nuclear power. And this trend is what prompted Japanese automakers It seemed like pivoting cars to electricity imports and maximize Japan's energy independence, In 2011, a massive tsunami and earthquake disaster. 154,000 people had to be evacuated and Fukushima in history only beaten out by Chernobyl. Naturally, Japan cut back on nuclear power In fact, in 2014, nuclear power accounted Things have somewhat recovered since then, was before the accident. So, from an energy-dependence perspective, run on gas or electricity as both have to This obviously stalled Japan's EV spirit EVs. What turned the country against EVs was the It turns out that the ocean floor surrounding ice. And each cubic meter of fire ice can produce then be turned into hydrogen. Yeah, that right there is why Japan has become In 2017, they became the first country to have since committed to betting 15 trillion And as Japan's largest company, Toyota is this national vision. This includes lobbying against EV initiatives, shade at EVs every chance they can. Conversely, they're doing everything they giving them away for nearly free. Take the hydrogen Toyota Mirai for example. Normally, this car retails for $66,000. But, just a few months ago, Toyota was offering worth of free hydrogen meaning that you could of pocket. So, as you can see, Toyota wasn't employing They were just leaning on promoting something more. And it just so happens that consumers ended reasons. THE CASE FOR HYBRIDS: In fact, they didn't even introduce their For perspective, Toyota started selling the But, while Toyota shied away from full-on to hybrids. They continuously built upon the technology seen as a geeky car has turned into one of market. Not the Prius specifically, but hybrids in In fact, in 2023 hybrid sales were up 76% And when you peel back the layers regarding to full-on EVs, this makes perfect sense. For a lot of people, hybrids offer the best For starters, you never have to charge a traditional The battery is small enough that it can be And this energy can then be used to vastly 45 to 50 miles per gallon. But, the traditional hybrid isn't what's That title actually goes to a more modern If you're not familiar with plug-in hybrids, by gas. Generally, they have relatively small batteries to 50 miles. But, for most people, that's more than enough able to fully rely on electricity for transportation And the best part is that they never have If you forget to charge the car one day or matter because the moment that the battery to running on gas leading to extraordinary In fact, the average plug-in hybrid comes It's literally the best of both worlds and increased by 83% while sales of regular EVs And can you guess who leading the plug-in Well, it's actually the Chinese automakers But, when it comes to Western markets, the thanks to other legacy automakers and startups In fact, many legacy makers made it a point At the time, it seemed like the forward-thinking adopted EVs as quickly as expected. And as such, GM recently announced that they're It's a similar story with Ford. Till recently, Ford was betting big on EVs, and focusing on converting their entire lineup EV-only companies like Tesla, Rivian, and is likely going to make the upcoming couple That's why Rivian and Lucid's stocks are why Tesla has shed nearly a trillion dollars So, was Toyota right all along about EVs? THE FUTURE OF EVS: not exactly right about EVs as it's highly vehicles or stick with hybrids indefinitely. EVs are still the inevitable future, but what curve isn't gonna be anywhere near as fast And initiatives like this that are pushing zero emission by 2035 are simply not realistic. The bottom line is that the hassle of EVs than EV makers expected. And just because EVs cost the same as ICE willing to switch. More times than not, they're worried about and range anxiety and cold weather. Obviously, these concerns will be addressed person isn't willing to make the jump directly They'd much rather buy a hybrid or a plug-in This is largely true for even EV enthusiasts Toyota partially saw these concerns ahead the country's enthusiasm for hydrogen, but hybrids. This has put Toyota in a strong position within plenty of time to pivot to EVs. When you zoom out though, none of this is comment really summarizes the situation well. "Toyota isn't late to EVs, they're doing You've never had new tech in a Toyota, you've Toyota has never been in the innovation business. They've always been in the commoditization They specialize in bringing developed technology reliability than anyone else. In fact, they weren't even early to hybrids. Hybrids have been around since 1899, so the But, that didn't prevent Toyota from becoming from a broad market adoption standpoint. And we might very well see a similar story EVs only account for 1% of all vehicles on So, it may very well turn out that Toyota And their decision to hold out on EVs may time will tell. If you're interested in having companies pay Silo in the description below.