- If you look right behind me you'll see the center of the universe. And the reason it's called because that's NASA's and all of the orbiters, we've sent out into the send all their signals right and that will ever be more apparent than in a few days when named Perseverance, concludes to our neighboring red planet, Mars, autonomously navigating itself for a terrifying seven minutes, traveling from 15 times to a gentle three miles all while live streaming the And as many of you know, for me this is like coming home because long before I started I came here to work seven of which we're we sent to Mars, named Curiosity. So today we're gonna talk and see the actual rover up close as I bring you up to speed on about this rover landing. 'Cause once you have an and what it even took I feel certain you're gonna feel just as pumped about this And to accomplish that, we're what, why, where and how of this rover. And we'll start with the why 3.5 billion years ago, earth Both had liquid water at the from the sun's radiation And so it begs the question, on Earth at that time, could So this is a massive lake in Jezero crater billions of years ago. And this is it now. This is where perseverance is landing, the bottom of an ancient Because using earth as a of fresh water is where scientists believe we have the best of past biological life on Mars. So thanks to Perseverance, we could be on the verge of of actual life outside our planet. And being able to pinpoint shows how NASA is constantly With Florida for scale, here's an oval showing the uncertainty of the landing spot for in 1997 and then Phoenix and now Perseverance. Being able to shrink down a landing target just gives you way more options of interesting places to land. Plus, once you do land and start driving towards it can shave off a year And not only does studying Mars like this help us understand but the rovers we're sending taking data and notes for us on the ground and sending all the info back to Earth. They're also testing some new technologies which I'll cover in a second, that humans will need to use when we are exploring the planet ourselves in the very near future. Because the first person is alive right now and it could be you. And if none of that and you're like, but Mark, and time exploring the solar system when we still have big we haven't solved? I tackled that exact we can't afford not to invest you can watch after this one. So that's the where and the why. Now let's talk about how 'Cause this is where it gets really wild. Meet Perseverance. And I should mention, I all planned out about a year in advance, which is why exactly this time last year I knew for this video I needed to fly down to check out the rover right to Florida to be launched. But before I checked out the rover, I first stopped in to see When I was here he was that designed the jet pack that lowered the rover to the ground. But now I heard he's all fancy So I wanted to get a sense of how things had changed for him. So anyone we see walk by you How about this guy right here? You can boss him around? - Okay, cool. Cool. We first geeked out for a of parts from previous space missions. And a hardware wall like this of what makes JPL such Actually I designed this. This is my hardware from Grail with Andy. This was cool 'cause you for like temperature variation. So this isn't just for show, this is like literally when a way to do things, these are examples of how it's been done before, right? - Right. And a lot of of this is the way you shouldn't do - Oh, so that's why my hardware... - That's why your - So after that we headed and meet up with my friend Emily. But before we could just go in and see it we had to get suited up because the rover is looking and we don't wanna contaminate our samples before we even arrive. So a bunny suit and air Emily, by the way, was for the descent and cruise stages, which is a big responsibility. This is the rover It will be on Mars 12 months from now. - [Mark] It's so complex when you come up and get this close. In fact, Perseverance is humans have ever built and It's got laser, x-ray, plus 19 cameras and a nuclear for energy. And while it might look pretty similar to the past rover Curiosity, all the science instruments because the science The most notable difference isn't there just to create rock Perseverance has a hollow drill bit to core out a chunk of rock and then package it up and for a future mission to That way we could study the of life using the most on Earth that we could So then to capture that not only is there an arm on the outside but this time there's - It is a miniature of the rover that And there's one right here. - Wow. And so is this - Exactly. - Is it fair to say this is - Exactly. - Okay. Do you like that analogy? 'Cause they didn't like it earlier. - Well, yeah. Okay cool. We got it. that the rover's gonna poop outside. - Okay, good. See that's a good analogy. So Perseverance is of returning a piece of Mars to Earth. Future missions will the poop scoop and shoot maneuver. This is my friend Liz by the way, and she's in charge of all the testing for the sample retrieval system. - We're doing things that nobody else does so we have to test it. - So she tests all sorts in a chamber that recreates and pressures to make sure 'Cause once you send and you can't exactly fix it. So it just has to work. Which is why testing is My buddy Matt here mentioned another way this is done. - So we build two spacecraft, and one that we keep And this is an exact replica of Curiosity who's driving around on Mars right now. And then we use this one to and driving over rocks. - And he knows a thing or because he was a rover and Curiosity. This guy is like one of who has driven a vehicle which is it's kind of a big deal. And so a few more cool that it has a mini on its underbelly named Ingenuity. This will be mankind's on another planet, a Wright Brothers moment. And the rover and the drone of each other, but we're so that in the future we might use drones to scout out terrain for us or get samples from hard to reach locations. Or you could have swarms of for humans from one site to another. Perseverance is also called MOXIE that basically because its function is to which future explorers and for rocket fuel. - The rover has been in this and a half, starting as just - And then all the teams and engineers have been taking turns coming down and building up their In fact, I was in that designing my hardware for and when it was all tested and complete, integrating it on the rover And then for the other like I mentioned before, on a small team of engineers So now we've covered the where and the why we're going, also the how we're gonna Now let's talk about the what. For what's gonna happen and what you should expect to see. As I edit this video, the at a cool 48,144 miles per hour. How fast is that? It's this fast. It's 15 times faster than a bullet. It's traveling the length in exactly this long and it until the big moment on Thursday when it starts its entry It's also known as the because we've literally got seven minutes to get from the top of the atmosphere to the surface of Mars going to 0 in perfect sequence and the spacecraft has with no help from us on Earth. When it first hits the upper atmosphere the friction causes the like the surface of the Sun. All the while thrusters and adjust its course And that arrow breaking gets So for the last 1% we deploy Then we've gotta pop off the heat shield we no longer need, like so the radar can start viewing the ground. But even with the parachute, it's still traveling 200 miles per hour which is way too fast to land. And so that's where we cut and fire the rockets. But we can't quite land because the rockets will and damage the rover. So then we lower it from a 21 foot rope and gently land the rover on the surface as my sky cream zooms catastrophic ending as as it's remaining fuel will carry it. And so in just seven has completely metamorphosized, shedding all its sacrificial elements until you're left with just a rover sitting alone safely Now everything you just but a few days after landing we'll all be blown away by from the 23 cameras and We'll see the parachute inflate and hear the crunch of the aluminum wheels as they touch down and make contact with the Martian surface. And because Mars is so far away to get a signal from the it takes about 12 minutes So that means after the that it's reached the by the time that signal reaches Earth to kick off the seven minutes of terror, for at least five minutes the vehicle has actually either alive or dead. Which is why it has to be autonomous. That means it makes all its own choices on the exact timing of things and where to steer without Which means all we can do is And this is a good time to remember that as easy as these make it look, landing Historically, only about half the attempts have been successful, but the willingness to take big risks to reap big rewards is the foundation on which NASA is built. The livestream to watch the February 18th at 11:15 AM Pacific. It will hit the top of the atmosphere an hour and a half later at 12:48 PM which starts the seven minutes of terror and we touch down at 12:55. I will leave a link to the livestream in the video description as well as some other really cool sites such as this video game-like demo where you can interactively of terror in preparation for the landing. We covered the where we covered the how with the rover, and the what with the landing details. Now it's time for the who, the human side to sending robot What makes NASA and JPL really it's the people who build them. And while it's not really possible for me to capture what it's to see it land this Thursday, the best I can do is to for me eight years ago when I was in a very similar situation. I made a video when Curiosity landed, but at the time my channel had less than 100,000 subscribers. So I know that most of you but even if you have with the it's a great time for a second And for context here, you should know that during my time I I had a son and lost my mom to ALS. And while my contribution was small relative to the overall picture, I tried to capture the human element here of what it feels like to basically have seven years of your life and career vindicated with that beautiful phrase, &quot;touchdown confirmed we are safe on Mars&quot;. So with that, consider this my tribute to everyone out there of human understanding from a durable little young Mark Rober. (instrumental music) - So we're still two days from landing, but you can see the news media has already started to Since we're all kind our office pools look a This is the landing ellipse for the rover and we all kind of place it's gonna come down. So we're headed down to NASA JPL to hang out with everyone So it's pretty exciting. Kind of sick to my Basically, seven years have come down to about seven minutes. Kind of freakin' out. (instrumental music) I owe half my chromosomes - Excellent chances. - I'm not nervous. - Okay - No, it's gonna work. When Mark gets nervous, like he's freezing. And right now it's probably So Mark is really nervous. (instrumental music continues) (engineers speaking indistinctly) (rover swooshing) - [Engineer] Dynamic phase. (instrumental music continues) (rover swooshing) We are in power flight. Standing by. Touchdown confirmed. We're safe on Mars. (all cheering) - Woo! That was honestly a moving come up that showed just just dominating the Martian landscape. It's just a crazy thought to think because it's, you know I've touched, I've built, is now safely resting on which is, it's a crazy feeling. (instrumental music continues)