I am a capitalist, and after a 30-year career in capitalism spanning three dozen companies, generating tens of billions I'm not just in the top one percent, Today, I have come because rich capitalists like me So the question is, how do we do it? How do we manage to grab an ever-increasing share Is it that rich people are smarter Is it that we're working harder Are we taller, better looking? Sadly, no. It all comes down to just one thing: economics. Because, here's the dirty secret. There was a time worked in the public interest, but in the neoliberal era, today, they work only for big corporations and billionaires, and that is creating We could choose to enact economic policies that raise taxes on the rich, regulate powerful corporations We have done it before. But neoliberal economists would warn that all of these policies because raising taxes and any form of government regulation is inefficient, and raising wages always kills jobs. Well, as a consequence of that thinking, over the last 30 years, in the USA alone, the top one percent has grown while the bottom 50 percent a pattern of widening inequality across the world. And yet, as middle class families on wages that have not budged neoliberal economists continue to warn to the painful dislocations is even more austerity and globalization. So, what is a society to do? Well, it's super clear to me We need a new economics. So, economics has been described and for good reason, it isn't a science at all, in spite of all In fact, a growing number have concluded that neoliberal and that today's growing crises and growing political instability are the direct result What we now know is that the economics it's backwards, because it turns out it isn't capital it's people; and it isn't self-interest it's reciprocity; and it isn't competition it's cooperation. What we can now see is that an economics can never sustain the high levels necessary to enable So where did we go wrong? Well, it turns out that the fundamental assumptions are just objectively false, and so today first I want to take you and then after describe where the science So, neoliberal economic that the market is which basically means that if one thing another thing in the economy, So for example, in Seattle, where I live, when in 2014 we passed the neoliberals freaked out &quot;If you raise the price &quot;businesses will purchase less of it. Thousands of low-wage workers The restaurants will close.&quot; Except ... they didn't. The unemployment rate fell dramatically. The restaurant business in Seattle boomed. Why? Because there is no equilibrium. Because raising wages because, for instance, when restaurant owners are suddenly so that now even they it doesn't shrink the restaurant business, it grows it, obviously. (Applause) Thank you. The second assumption is that the price of something which basically means and I earn 50 million dollars a year, that's because I produce Now, it will not surprise you to learn that this is a very comforting assumption if you're a CEO paying yourself but paying your workers poverty wages. But please, take it from somebody this is nonsense. People are not paid what they are worth. They are paid what they have and wages' falling share of GDP is not because workers but because employers And -- (Applause) And by pretending that the giant imbalance doesn't exist, neoliberal economic theory a protection racket for the rich. The third assumption, is a behavioral model that describes human beings which basically means perfectly rational But just ask yourselves, is it plausible that every single time when you did something all you were doing Is it plausible that when a soldier jumps they're just promoting If you think that's nuts, contrary to any reasonable that's because it is and, according to the latest science, not true. But it is this behavioral model which is at the cold, cruel heart and it is as morally corrosive as it is scientifically wrong because, if we accept at face value that humans are fundamentally selfish, and then we look around the world at all of the unambiguous then it follows logically, then it must be true by definition, that billions of individual magically transubstantiate If we humans are merely then selfishness Under this economic logic, greed is good, widening inequality is efficient, and the only purpose of the corporation can be to enrich shareholders, because to do otherwise and harm the economy overall. And it is this gospel of selfishness which forms the ideological cornerstone a way of thinking which have enabled me and my rich buddies to grab virtually all of the benefits But, if instead we accept the latest empirical research, real science, which correctly as highly cooperative, reciprocal and intuitively moral creatures, then it follows logically that it must be cooperation and not selfishness that is the cause of our prosperity, and it isn't our self-interest but rather our inherent reciprocity that is humanity's economic superpower. So at the heart of this new economics is a story about ourselves that grants us and, unlike the old economics, this is a story that is virtuous and also has the virtue of being true. Now, I want to emphasize is not something I have personally Its theories and models in universities around the world building on some of the best complexity theory, evolutionary theory, psychology, anthropology And although this new economics or even a commonly agreed upon name, in broad strokes its explanation of where prosperity So, market capitalism in which prosperity emerges through a positive feedback loop between increasing amounts of innovation Innovation is the process consumer demand is the mechanism for useful innovations, and as we solve more problems, But as we become more prosperous, our problems and solutions become more complex, and this increasing technical complexity requires ever higher levels in order to produce that define a modern economy. Now, the old economics that competition plays a crucial role but what it fails to see is that it is largely a competition competition between firms, competition between nations -- and anyone who has ever run that building a cooperative team is almost always a better strategy So how do we leave neoliberalism behind and build a more sustainable, and more equitable society? The new economics suggests First is that successful economies which is to say that markets, like gardens, must be tended, that the market is the greatest for solving human problems, but unconstrained by social norms markets inevitably create Climate change, the great financial crisis of 2008 are two easy examples. The second rule is that inclusion creates economic growth. So the neoliberal idea that inclusion is this fancy luxury to be afforded if and when we have growth The economy is people. Including more people in more ways is what causes economic growth The third principle is the purpose of the corporation The greatest grift is the neoliberal idea that and the only responsibility of executives is to enrich themselves and shareholders. The new economics must and can insist that the purpose of the corporation is to improve the welfare customers, workers, community and shareholders alike. Rule four: greed is not good. Being rapacious it makes you a sociopath. (Laughter) (Applause) And in an economy as dependent sociopathy is as bad for business And fifth and finally, unlike the laws of physics, the laws of economics are a choice. Now, neoliberal economic theory has sold itself to you when in fact it's social norms based on pseudoscience. If we truly want a more equitable, more prosperous if we want high-functioning democracies and civil society, we must have a new economics. And here's the good news: if we want a new economics, all we have to do is choose to have it. Thank you. (Applause) Moderator: So Nick, If you're so unhappy why not just give all your money away Nick Hanauer: Yeah, no, yes, right. You get that a lot. You get that a lot. &quot;If you care so much about taxes, and if you care so much about wages, And I could do that. The problem is, it doesn't make that much difference, and I have discovered a strategy that works literally Moderator: OK. NH: which is to use my money that will require to pay taxes and pay their workers better. (Applause) And so, for example, the 15-dollar minimum wage has now affected 30 million workers. So that works better. Moderator: That's great. If you change your mind, NH: OK. Thank you.