Hi I'm Henry Segerman, this is the pi/4 polyhedron. This 3d print was designed by Matthias Goerner So it's a polyhedron, it's made out of flat a pretty complicated shape. So, why would someone come up with this and Often people think about regular polyhedra All of the faces are the same as each other, is symmetric. You can also make less symmetric polyhedra edges. On this die for example you can see that the the angle at this edge. Ok so this pi/4 polyhedron is even less regular There are holes and indentations all over However, there is something a bit regular The angles between the faces at each edge We get 90 degrees here, 90 degrees here, 90 Even though there are all of these strange except for this one edge here which has an And it turns out that in order to make a polyhedron at one edge, you have to do something as complicated It's worth imagining what you might do to Two edges with 45 degree angles is easy - just Next you could try to remove one of those edges that didn't have 90 degrees at them. But it's not so obvious how to do this. But that's what Sydler does in this paper Matthias Goerner followed Sydler's instructions version of such a polyhedron. You can also follow Matthias's version of the description. Why was Sydler thinking about this kind of Well it comes from generalizing things like This is the Dudeney-McElroy dissection. You can cut an equilateral triangle along them to make a square. This is known as &quot;scissors congruence&quot;. The equilateral triangle and the square are to get out your scissors and cut it into pieces In fact the Wallace-Bolyai-Gerwien theorem the same area you can always cut one up with Here's a web page where you can play with In 1900 David Hilbert asked if the same thing That is, if you have two polyhedra which have of them up with planes into pieces which can Hilbert's student Dehn proved that volume So, for example, there's no way to cut up to make a regular tetrahedron which has the Dehn showed this by introducing what is now So the volume of a polyhedron doesn't change invariant is another thing that doesn't change So to show that there's no way to make a tetrahedron do is just show that they have different Dehn A quick aside: we shouldn't really be naming For one, the name Dehn doesn't tell you anything If the Dehn invariant were named something would at least get a hint about it from the Things are often named after the wrong person. For example, l'Hopital's rule was almost set was first studied by Brooks and Matelski, mathematician Pingala almost 2000 years before You might get the impression from looking is only done by, and is only for dead white Of course in Western history, white men were to be able to spend their lives doing mathematics. However, the names that we have are the names So if you want to look up this invariant you In 1965, Sydler proved that the Dehn invariant What that means is that that's all you need: same volume and the same Dehn invariant (whatever one to the other by cutting and gluing. The Dehn invariant is hard to define simply, the lengths of the edges of your polyhedron And it turns out that anything which has angles pi/3 etc., those polyhedra all have zero Dehn So part of what Sydler has to show to prove Dehn invariant can be cut up and reassembled So you started with whatever random thing gets it down to a polyhedron that has 90 degree And he needs to get rid of those 45 degree And so what this polyhedron does is it allows at a time. Because what do you do? You have your existing polyhedron and you enough to produce this thing, and then you 45 degree angle you have and combined they And so you can reduce the number of 45 degree One last thing: can you make this kind of 45 degrees but some other angle. So it turns out by a result of Jessen that as long as its cosine is an algebraic number. So there you go, that's it, thanks for watching.