- Well, good evening, I'm Jack Dailey, the John of the Smithsonian's National It's my pleasure to [APPLAUSE] Thank you very much. If you leave the [LAUGHTER] Welcome to the National Air Adm. Donald D. Engen We founded NASS more And in that time, our members million to support our to celebrate the and inspire its future. How about giving your hands-- [INAUDIBLE] hand on that one. [APPLAUSE] And that support-- That support has never Get it? [LAUGHTER] We opened our doors on as a birthday gift to Our museum was delivered The original that we might get up to 2 We reached 2 million in and have averaged And since then, we've welcomed every year, with more than gone through this building. That's more than the population And that's why we're It was built to handle And we've been beating the heck So it's safe to say that their money's worth out of that That unparalleled a need and an opportunity And we have just of the most ambitious project since we broke ground on the nearly 20 years ago. Over the next seven transform our home here from the cladding stones to the high vac that provides And by the way, the original is half of what we needed. So when we go to the it'll be the right size. The only thing is we're going because it's bigger, of course. And so we're going to And we're going to have to lose of the chillers. But at least, when it'll be either toasty in the We'll also redesign all And it'll be a new level of to new generations in seven or eight we going to be dealing with? And how are they going or how will they want to We're doing a lot of research. We have an innovation lab and exhibits. And we're going to keep So we want to make we open brand new and shiny So that's a big We need the help of sponsors And as our best depend on our NASS members and strangers on the street. So we want you to stopping it says it right here-- [LAUGHTER] --to tell them the throughout this construction. And that is going to-- be one of our biggest problems that we are open going to look like it with these that sort of thing. So we'll continue to welcome as daily visitors exploring and as attendees at Tonight, we celebrate the Engen, a former As a naval aviator, Donald in three wars. As a test pilot, safety measures that saved He carried that focus on as chief of the FAA. Don led this museum And his family continues And we have three of His son Charlie came all His daughter Candy is here. And his son-in-law There they are right up there. OK. [APPLAUSE] As we begin the new I want to thank the Engens for and continue to do Everybody here tonight loves You wouldn't be a NASS Many of us here but it can be safely loves flying quite Robert &quot;Hoot&quot; Gibson got his as a boy and got his at the age of 17. I don't want to but he has maintained for more than 50 years now. After earning a degree in from Cal Poly, Hoot joined by way of the Aviation He saw duty aboard the and Enterprise and flew combat Hoot graduated from both TOPGUN Hoot became an astronaut From 1984 to '95, he flew and four of them as commander. On his last mission, the first American flight Mir, an important milestone five years before the So he's kind of an old guy. [LAUGHTER] He also served a stint as the naval aviator, test pilot, chief astronaut. What do you do when Why, of course, you've pilot for Southwest Airlines. [LAUGHTER] [APPLAUSE] Are you going to tell you're serving your drinks? Is that in your pitch? Can I tell that one? - Sure. [LAUGHS] - Southwest has a policy, when you have to help the crew So Hoot's walking down the aisle And somebody said, what became a Southwest pilot? He said, I was the Chief [LAUGHTER] That pretty accurate? OK. Now, fellow astronaut and former Bolden once called Hoot pilots he'd ever met. He said Hoot didn't get into an And as you'll soon hear, no one as Hoot. Please help me welcome [APPLAUSE] - General Dailey, This is such an asked to speak here tonight in I will never get over this. I will never forget this. Thank you so very much. I'm going to talk about some of that I've been able And what a thrill it has been, And I think I'm not through in a lot of areas, because they're telling me I'm Well, this first that we shot on my And this was from the And where we are in this So this is the between Europe and to the right side of to the left side of the picture. And under the clouds-- under the clouds up here, to put that in perspective. And notice that we're across the Mediterranean to So what an awesome Well, how did I make Here are two of my role And my dad was the one And the interesting is that this is This is mom's airplane. My mother and two of her decided they're going Well, if you're going you have to have an airplane. So the three of them went None of them knew but they bought And that's how she met my dad. So as a result, I have lots of my big brother John and In this case, it's used to exist in is where I was born, the airport at the time. So not surprisingly, mentioned, out of college, I And lucky me-- I have been I got my first choice of and based at Miramar I wanted West And the Navy let me have that. I've been fortunate What a thrill it is to because you go And this is the first I joined the squadron to replace an aircrew And I got to fly this tell on the intake, this was our MiG killer. This was our airplane that Garry in, aircraft number 201. I actually flew that airplane But on the carrier, you to this position in And when you get here, you're There's not a Corvette on [LAUGHTER] So what a thrill it is to a really pretty airplane. This is 201. 153019 was the bureau And at the time, the F-4 all-around fighter. And so it was really a thrill to to get to fly them. This was a picture right as a 25-year-old kid. I don't think dad Dad walked up to me when I got And he said, you will never I had wished I'd never And now that I have kids, exactly. But at the time I was nothing can get me. Tom Cruise, eat your heart out. I got to go to TOPGUN. And I can tell you, there was there when I went [LAUGHTER] And it was a real pleasure It was a graduate course and fighter aviation exciting course to get to do. Another reason Tom Cruise, you I got to fly the And of course, this that's in the movie, featured And I mentioned the F-4 Phantom was the world's And I hopped into the F-14, and situation because I went out in F-4 Phantom pilot when I And I just beat him into a pulp. [LAUGHTER] And everything that he tried So everything the Phantom did, It out-accelerated the out-turned it by a mile. Had a much more sophisticated One of the big features, In this picture, the wings are and for cruise. And then for could sweep the wings aft, but it made it look really cool. [LAUGHTER] No, it helped a lot. It helped a lot supersonically. So by the time we the wings would have themselves all the way back. So it really was an And it just made the F-4 as soon as it came out-- OK, time to come back to that carrier. Here's that giant, [LAUGHTER] You'll notice that from up here, In fact, it looks We're going to Yeah, you'd better because we with no divert bases. And so you land or you flew alongside And you didn't want to come back to that carrier. Now, fortunately, the Tomcat around the carrier because to 125 knots, about Well, that still sounds kind Compared to the Phantom, Phantom coming back aboard the carrier. So in one way, this You were slower, so you to make corrections. You had a whole lot more So anyway, it could be a little And here's the view that you And wait a minute, I'm going Well, yes, you had better. [LAUGHTER] And you'll notice this was the Enterprise-- four cables strung across there. You don't have a There's not a whole lot of because there's people There's not a whole lot because there's people So you had better You can't go long, or And you really don't because that could be fatal. So anyway, flying was really thrilling Altogether, I had over and almost a hundred Now, it's exciting and Nighttime is really exciting. But I found it to And some things were and most things were But it was really able to operate in all weather from an aircraft carrier, so Here's another exciting machine. This is a pretty picture And this space [LAUGHTER] This is the space I flew all the other four. I didn't fly a Discovery, who was one of the original and she and I met in We were both in the same But she flew Discovery. So between the two of of the space shuttles. So that was exciting. Now, one of the got to do when I first got to be a chase plane Now, we flew the but we also use them as chase on the first five missions. I got to be a chase plane pilot STS-1 and STS-2. And this is our team for STS-1. You'll see Sally She worked with us and was one Now, the way you're going it's like Wile E. Coyote [LAUGHTER] You've got to catch them he's way too fast. So what we had to do an intercept point, an intercept that we knew that Columbia had to fly going to land on this runway. And we picked the spot where And so our aim was to intercept shuttle at 35,000 feet. Now, in order to be we had to be in We had to have the we had to have 40% we had enlarged speed brakes 50% bigger than a normal T-38. And all of those to create enough drag so that shuttle, because in a T-38, 20 degrees, like the we'd be transonic in the T-38. So you had to have at idle, speed breaks And you had to configure got to the intercept point. So it was really exciting. You got to the intercept point. You pitched up to threw the gear out, dumped the to accelerate back up. Get the speed breaks And it was really to introduce just a little and to flame out both engines. [LAUGHTER] And I was really good at that. [LAUGHTER] I did it three times. One of the times, I had and she had never been up feet with no engines going. And of course, when you lost cabin pressure. So the cabin went She was not pleased. [LAUGHTER] But we managed it. We didn't have while we were intercepting And somehow, we never elevated at NASA that we were sort while we were out But this was really exciting. And so what we would one of the T-38s simulate So it would come inbound from and flying at 0.9 Mach. And then we would with radar controllers out to give us the timing to the intercept point. And then chase 1 would of the target. In this case, that's the far And then chase 2 would join to the left. Chase 2 had a television because this was-- golly, this This was 1981. So we had this huge TV with a photographer to operate to the ground. It probably added 50 pounds to Nowadays, we've got GoPros But back then, we had a And we would chase them Well, we needed a So we decided, let's practice [LAUGHTER] So we dredged up an SR-71. Well, we didn't What happened was to be doing some testing carrying one of the space And they wanted to make track it inbound at Mach 3. So on the occasions an SR-71 flying the he'd stay at 70,000 feet. He'd be at Mach 3. And we'd get to practice the Now, we couldn't go to But the practice was for us to be at the intercept point And then once he Edwards, he would decelerate, and get cool photos like this, and shoot a couple of or low approaches with them. And this was really exciting So I was chase 1 for STS-2. And so here we are on liftoff. Now, we would cover because if they lost an they were going to do an RTLS, And they'd be coming right at the big shuttle So we'd be there to chase them So I was there for the launch. And then two days later, here And this picture is one of photos ever taken, by Kathy Sullivan, Astronaut as we joined up. What was our purpose Well, part of it was of tile damage they may so that we could from what happens on touchdown and possibly bits from the lakebed runways. So part of it was to of the underside, give them an airspeed check probes are stowed for And then they deploy them to Mach 3-- actually, Mach 5. Once we got down to Mach 5, we So we wanted to give them a I would say, here comes a feet, 300 knots, just to let is accurate and then height all the way down and then also the D-rotation And that was really exciting. That was really a lot not nearly as exciting as So eight missions later, Rhea and I had a bet over I was betting she She was betting I And I lost-- or let's see. I lost, or I won. I got to go first. And I flew on the 10th space Now, we called the two the commander and the pilot. And that just confuses the because the commander He-- let's see, he or she? Did we have any female You bet we did. So he or she is going to make So the pilot is And I'm convinced-- this joined the space program. I am convinced that the the pilot is because astronauts nobody's willing to So it just confuses the So I always say, OK, I flew as We did something Well, we did lots We carried two But this was the really cool And no doubt, you've seen And you must have wondered, that took this picture? Well, as the co-pilot I was the only that knew how to work a camera. No, I was the only that had absolutely nothing So I was parked at the window. And I'll never forget, I and I looked through I didn't even take the photo. I put the camera down. And I said to I cannot believe what If I don't screw to get the cover Yes, I did. I got this one as a And what's happening was the first one to We called it the Manned And he used the Manned to fly kind of far and equally as important to [LAUGHTER] Now, one of the questions is, OK, Hoot, what of fuel, what if he has Well, the answer was we could to pick him up if he [LAUGHTER] And we trained on that-- but we trained on that And we never had to do it. Everything worked fine. It was a completely flawless Maneuvering Units. Two of our astronauts, Bruce were the first two to fly Unit being a human satellite. And you look at this picture, at down beneath his boots? The Earth is 200 and you're crossing the And he's a human satellite. I'm glad I got to be a got to be a mission commander. But I never got And I get asked that Hoot, did you ever And the way I like to answer it I was far too valuable And we've got lots of So we could send And-- OK, Rhea, just [LAUGHTER] No. Actually, the reason is that the pilot spent on launch, re-entry, malfunction procedures, To even out the training got to do all the spacewalks. And I have to admit, I looked and I was jealous. So this was pretty spectacular. We came back on that, and we at Cape Canaveral. And Vance Brand, the mission was the one to make the landing. Well, later on in the day, and they said, Hoot, this back at Cape Canaveral, And I said, yes. And they said, that was a And I said, thank you. [LAUGHTER] OK, that wasn't my turn. But not even two years later, I on the 24th launch And this was one of the we used to like put the military guys in in coats and ties. And you'll notice Major General was my co-pilot. And I used to be his boss. And of course, he just as the administrator of just a brilliant career. Well, we were the only because we lifted off in and flew into the rising sun. And my wife tells me that this smoke cloud you'd ever of the rainbow were in it. The camera doesn't really But we flew out of the And in this picture, it We really are not, we're And this is at solid rocket is two minutes after liftoff. And the way we can tell, the That means we have burned And where are we at two minutes? We are 30 miles in altitude. We're 30 miles downrange and So once again, no Corvette So really, really So I thought, carrier This is like a it lasts for 8 and 1/2 minutes. So it's really an exciting ride. And this is what's happening at Now, I think this because I don't get something this sharp So I think it's a fake picture. But it's accurate. This is what's going on. We have explosive that separate the And then you can see, that push the booster because even empty of fuel, they And you really don't once you cut them loose. So that was accurate. We stayed up for six And then we were supposed to Well, it didn't work out. Three days in a row, the weather So finally on the mission control said, Take it one more orbit, and land So it was an unplanned And this was only that we had landed a We had landed STS-8-- obviously, the eighth launch-- as a planned night landing. And this was an unplanned So my first landing was an unplanned night landing. Now, I saw this lurking. And so my co-pilot had done most of our So we were ready for it. Well, 10 days we lost the Space And so we were the only It took us nearly three years the booster rockets, and in the entire space shuttle. So at the end of 1988, we were Well, I had worked on the rockets. And so the chief think they're You go fly them. So I got to command when we started out again. And this was aboard Atlantis. So my first flight had been Columbia, and this And I can't tell you It was a top-secret The only thing was that we carried a major We deployed it in orbit. We separate it away, and And we had to do an unplanned and help fix it. And then we separate it away. And it went on to a Now, that mission took us way up north [LAUGHTER] And so we were able to get lake in the world. It isn't one of the Great Lakes. This is Lake Baikal in Russia. Just happened to take Lake Baikal has 1/5 of all 20% of all the Freshwater on Well, it's 400 miles to that end, 400 miles. But the lake is a mile deep. It's had a junction of two of so it's a mile deep. So 20% of all the freshwater That's about the I can show you from the mission. So we spent 4 and It was a short flight into flight test mode. And they had me land because we had braking and to do. Because there were we had assumed the space is operational, that And we learned a lot had made out of after the Challenger accident. So we went back into OK, my fourth launch-- this So fourth launch was aboard Space Shuttle Endeavor. I flew the second And this was a dedicated We had the Space Lab laboratory. And what we're doing is we're doing a shift change. We were working So we had a red crew And so every 12 hours, from red to blue or And you notice in this that we use to hold ourselves loops on the floor. That's all you need to stabilize both hands free to work with. You notice as well, Why would we need to wear shoes? You don't walk anywhere. You fly everywhere you go. So everybody just wears Now, the other great about notice I'm taking And when I'd fill got to do is just park my pen grab the pen, and Well, you get in the And you can see One of the crews And when we would there'll always be a waiting to welcome us home. And one of the guys was And the lady said, oh, So he parked his pen. [LAUGHTER] And it's things like that oh, these poor guys. It must be the radiation that these guys encounter But it's really handy to work And in fact, when and you have to feel like you weigh So it really is habit forming We came back at the end of And that, for me, two landings at Edwards, two And one of the exciting of course, is the view. And this was another took on my third mission, which up north. So this is Greenland, just And in the picture, you can see It's a really busy across the North Atlantic States. And so we would always when we were up there. This was a picture we And we are looking at the Now, north is to the And underneath the this is the Suez Canal going into the Red Sea. And from space, the look silver or gray And so right up here at the tip And the bright spot in the So you can actually make OK, what do you suppose this Looks pretty So not only do we get this we get to enjoy it And in this picture, you north is to the And the Nile River is very brightly This is Alexandria, There's a lot of civilization and in the Nile Delta need water very badly. So you move a little and there's not I have no clue who [LAUGHTER] But they sure are out there. OK, the next picture-- the next picture is that we get to see from space. And I was given a to a bunch of fifth And I use that I said, the next slide is that we see from space. And one of the kids [LAUGHTER] No, it's kind of as pretty as the aurora. And when we're on a that means our orbit is highly so 57 degrees north. But when we go to 57 we also go to 57 So we have the opportunity to the aurora borealis, and also australis. And over the years, we've Hey, if we're way up north in the dark, don't Nobody's going to talk to you. We are looking out the And it's just And you'll notice in this the aurora happens at the Well, we're up above that. So we look down at the aurora. So it's really Well, after all those years pilot, training to shoot in this photo, I'm sitting in pilots who had been training to as well. But together now, we are going that a space shuttle ever did. And it's with the Russian So I'm sitting in between Dezhurov, Russian Air Force also an Air Force Colonel. Well, my crew and I got And this was fascinating. We got to go to the Air and It's nothing like our Most of the airplanes are out But we got to see seen grainy intelligence of MiG-31s, MiG-25s and So it was really fascinating. We got to be tourists to Red Square and St. Basil's We trained on the as well as the Soyuz simulator. Now, the biggest challenge was not the docking. It wasn't operating It was having to to learn to speak Russian. Underline the word &quot;attempt&quot; at that point were couldn't afford to or buy English textbooks. So we had to attempt to And the reason I say that [LAUGHTER] And engineers ain't taught in Russian. And it's a different alphabet. It's 33 characters Anyway, I'm whining, I know. But here's what I [RUSSIAN] I speak Russian very badly [LAUGHTER] So any time I have to talk I will start off with that. But when we launched I had two Russians And they're going to be the Station Mir. So we carried them to orbit, and then I picked had been up there and gave them a ride home. Well, during the to tell Anatoly and Nikolay-- [RUSSIAN] Excuse me, please. We have a small fire So we need it to be at least Now, it was very difficult, I am so far from fluent. It's ridiculous. But I am not fluent in Russian. But to this day, on an extremely poor So it's been a lot of fun. And here's our target, the &quot;Mir&quot; is a Russian word It means world, and And what I'm to do is dock to a docking port up on this to a docking port to take their space shuttle Their space shuttle only in October of 1988. And it never went It was completely unmanned. And it made two orbits it never flew again. So what we did was we from the Russians. And this is it in the cargo bay. It's about a 4-foot And this was one of these really because I'm flying So rendezvous and docking in is manually flown So I'm flying Atlantis by hand. And they said, Hoot, You just have to line the ring up within 2 inches. We're both going And the day before launch, called us on the phone. We had a telecon with him. And he said, Hoot, But for the docking, 5 billion people watching you So now that I've made it because that makes it went off flawlessly. And we docked right on like precision clockwork. It just worked really well. And the protocol was the were to shake just as we had done docking 20 years earlier. So I'm shaking hands with Colonel Vladimir Dezhurov. And the president announced this day marks the end of the Cold War. So now, you all know I [LAUGHTER] [APPLAUSE] It's just so much fun to Well, we got to spend and we had a lot of work to do. We had to transfer more than to the Mir or from the and change out the crews. And the way we got Soyuz is missing from this So Anatoly and Nikolay climbed to the side 60 take this photo and this We separated away. We spent two more days on orbit. And now it's time to fly as well. And that's the reentry And this is a wind tunnel This was the attitude that we angle of attack or And we would create, as you a massive shockwave. And the temperature in that There's not a metal on the face And so that's the that exists on the shuttle. And hopefully, you've all to see Discovery out there. And the tiles, the was one of the major the space shuttle possible. So that's what it looks This is what we would You look like you're only it's twice as hot as So it was pretty exciting And the fire and flame Once we got slow all the fire and flame But we'd hit the 25 times the speed of sound. And that's what created Well, once we're down now we're a 110-ton glider. So let's see, how many 1.0. You get exactly So we trained our extensively for the had to do it right. And you had to do it And in some cases, after you were floating for two weeks at a time. Now, I never spent My wife did. But this flight was my And then after you've and you've done you get to pose for cool And in this picture, see how big that by looking back at under it, under We could fit 1 and 1/2 Greyhound We never did, but we could That's how much payload Well, I wasn't tired of flying. So when it was time to move of Murfreesboro, something I could do So I joined Southwest Airlines. Anybody here from Yes. I know they are. [APPLAUSE] I got to enjoy being a pilot Now, one of the questions I get You didn't have to start Oh, yes, you do. It's day of hire. It's your employee number. It's your seniority number. So I got to be a and a captain for five years. And it was wonderful. I really enjoyed the flying. You wouldn't think that flying like that around would be fun. It was. It was a fun airplane to fly. It was an interesting mission, the company was wonderful. OK, other than that, I It was really a I only got to have because they said, OK, So I'm out the door. So I'm too old to However, I wasn't too old So let me understand it. I can't fly an airliner I have a co-pilot, on board, a flight management in the world from the FAA but I could race airplanes So I always had the something in the that you haven't done And I always used to say, yes, Class at Reno. And this is the world's driven airplanes. It's perhaps not the to be doing because do for the start of the on a pace plane, much where you had a pace car. We'd line up on a pace plane. And in order to be fast enough-- it's a T-33 jet-- he would point us And then he is not crazy. He's not going down there. About 2 and 1/2 miles he would say, gentlemen, Gentlemen, you have a race. He'd pitch up, and And then all eight of us are And this is where we're racing. We're racing down at In this picture, had just finished the small So in this photo, we're doing And you'll notice The pylon is 30-feet high. And the rule for minimum I'm in the red and My helmet must not be below I see as a reasonable rule. [LAUGHTER] But in this picture, and I are probably 60 feet or So it's really exciting. One of the other exciting was the many VIPs that would So one of them, would come by and say hi to us. And that was a real and a real treasured moment to and talk to him Neil Armstrong would come by. And he'd always-- he'd be He'd have a ball cap so that you wouldn't But I grabbed him, and I made wife and daughters for a photo. And our own General Dailey And that was always a And in this picture, my and I are taking our photo Airlines, Herb Kelleher. And Herb is a remarkable person. And he was a very And he's very fond of So of course, we had a And he did the somewhat He uncorked it right in [LAUGHTER] Right there on the ramp Herb is a real classic. And one of the really for Southwest Airlines was So all of the VIPs that we'd and talk about air racing really Well, I raced that other And then the owner sold it out from under me, and anymore. So I got invited to another Hawker Sea Fury with a I raced it four years, 2011, the first I ate up the number one piston. And it spread metal all so I was done racing The next year, I didn't and I got second place finish I had had at that point. I had had four in the other one, Riff-Raff, But I got second place overall Came back in 2013 with an And we were really And I'm hoping this video This was my qualifying [VIDEO PLAYBACK] [END PLAYBACK] So that's the altitude Let me play it again, maybe just a little bit. But I've got a second Because it happens kind of fast, So here it is again. [VIDEO PLAYBACK] [END PLAYBACK] That wound up being a In fact, it wound up being a bit any Sea Fury had ever gone miles an hour. So things are looking I flew the Friday heat race And in the Saturday heat race, And then this happened. The engine sucked in a big The engine didn't like that, the entire induction system. So pieces went flying I had pieces hit my canopy, pieces take off a GPS antenna So needless to say, I Well, not to be all of that, came back in make it that far in 2014 The engine totally ate itself. And I pitched up-- do when you lost your engine airspeed for altitude. And I'd zoom up to And you would gain because I was doing 460 miles Pitch up, get below gear because you really want that. And if you lose your have time to lower it manually. So get the gear down, and And then head for a It comes down like So once I got the gear I came down the first thousand and the second thousand feet at of similar to a space So fortunately, I've with dead-stick landings. Well, after 2014, the owner Hoot keeps breaking my engines. It was an engine every And so the airplane is if anybody needs a really fast [LAUGHTER] So anyway, finally, by Tiger Destefani, who has an airplane that And he asked if I would that airplane. And I said, interested. How much do I have to pay you? And so this was my year, And this photo was a to winning the Unlimited And this particular lap, this was the second I did that lap in So this is an The airplane is just as And he's caught the pylon Somebody made up this funny And the first lap, I had So this airplane is engine and a propeller. That's about 0.7 Mach number. So it really was a red rocket. So I got-- after 18 I finally got to that the-- it's like I guess, for that [LAUGHTER] But the gold jacket at gets a gold jacket with your name and the race And you get to pose And so after 18 was by a big moment of And I just have one can do questions if we I think we do. But OK, I called the owner of And I said, Tiger, we're going And he said, Hooter, I'm I'm going to have a So now I'm too old I'm too old for air racers. I guess there's for me, except for the But I still get to be a In fact, just last Friday, my grandson's school was having And so I showed up and he showed up in And oh, we were such a hit that were wearing Now, that time, last I had worn my flight And this is the second time So I guess, I'm too old But maybe once a year, I can again on Veterans Day. So I've had quite a run of it. I've had quite a career. It was probably time for after 18 years of it. And maybe I really So anyway, that is my story. And I think we have a couple of I can-- anyone have Thank you. Thanks very much. [APPLAUSE] We have a question up here. - OK. I've got two-part question. - No, you only get one. OK. - What is the one flown that you want to fly? And what is the one airplane you would love to have climbed? - Oh, golly. Now that's tough. I would really like I have flown an F-14, an I'd really like to fly an F-16. I think that would because that's a It's got a lot of power, Let's see. In the museum's collection, would be a good one. But I guess they've That would be fun to We have a Lockheed Electra, The kind of airplane I love to fly one of those. That would be exciting. Have not flown one of those. Yes, sir. - What's your scariest - Scariest moment in flying. Hmm, Rhea, hold your hasn't heard this story. [LAUGHTER] Well, I guess, I'd when I was quite I was practicing to climb record in a homebuilt pusher airplane that had And I was passing over the Gulf of Mexico, and I think you don't know Well, anyway, it's kind and it was a wooden propeller. And I think the problem was putting a hot spot in the And so it shed The other blades to chop the tail But fortunately, it broke instead of chopping the tail off and my horizontal And if I had lost those, I in the water from 28,000 feet. So that's probably-- well, oh, I'm out over the Gulf of And so I need to glide because I had to get out to be up that high, because And so I wound up having to to an airfield. And I put it back on a runway. And so everything had to tell my wife about it. [LAUGHTER] And they let me keep the and it's just a stub. And I was cleaning out in my And I had pulled a bunch of And I had set that stub of a Bad timing because Rhea walked And she looked at this And she said, oh, what is that? And I said, it's a And she said, I'm not And she just kept going. So that was probably one was I had to stretch my glide. So you want to get it so you're tempted to push the fast. Only then, you're not So I had to sit up there And it was probably 20 gliding back down to a runway. And I made it to the runway. So see, everything was fine. [LAUGHTER] So that was probably one of Yes, sir. - So as great as all this is, at heart, do you ever - Yes, I do. Yes, I do. One of the things-- and when I got selected We had a briefing from the And they said, we want and make sure you what you're doing here. You're giving up your You are not going to screen You are not going to get to You might be able to make flag And if you think you'd then give us a call, for you either in at space command And if you prove maybe you might make flag rank. Well, several of our naval and didn't succeed So I didn't try it. I didn't try it. It would have been-- it would have been fun. It would have been I am very much in made flag rank, just like I'm very much in awe of because I never got to go there. So there was a bit of a And of course, I was I got to do and I got to meet Rhea So I'm trying to make up is what I'm doing here. [LAUGHTER] Yes. - I was just wondering if competitive at all with their a landing is graded - You're setting me up, Linda. [LAUGHTER] Well, yes because people everything was on replayed five and right after landing So yeah, there was to make a good landing. And I know what into is to brag about because it was a Now, this is the third time I was the first person to four times. I was only the second person So therefore, I But on my third landing, which at Cape Canaveral, the is 205 knots, which is 235 miles But the actual published was 205 knots, and I missed it. I touched down at 204.6 knots, Well, that's about as And the other parameter was, what was your sink rate? At those kind of could not have a sink per second-- or I'm sorry, 6 feet per At lighter gross weights, we And that's compared where the airplanes to 24 feet per second. So it's a very gentle touchdown. Well, the official that I was credited with, after biases out of it, was So I remember one said, wait a minute, that [LAUGHTER] And I said, Brewster, I just went asymptotic to So anyway, I had-- and that's what Linda I had one of the landings on my fourth mission. So yes, people Yes, sir. - [INAUDIBLE] - Yes, the space shuttle by the mission commander. And so we would take over manual once we decelerated, just So at 0.9 Mach, the would take over manual all the way down to landing. So it was never landed And we, astronauts, like the automatic system. Hey, you got to So we had initially, in the program, tried to certify It had such wide dispersions touchdown airspeed, managed to convince management Let's just let the crews So both pilots, the were both highly you had to have was something control stick, it's All you had to have was in the commander's control he or she doesn't get The co-pilots got So we trained all of our to be able to do just that. So yeah, good question. Yes, sir. - Did you use auto land when - Question was, did I use Well, number one, we didn't What we had was a great system. It was a heads up display. And for category 3 were RVRs down to we flew it manually. The captain would fly the The HUD was so that we could fly to height on an instrument approach Now, in the simulator, they got 700 RVR, so you're going And they'd make it zero, zero. So you get to 50 feet and you'd call for a go around. And on the go around, would hit the runway So that's how low you were you would be at minimums But it was so accurate saw us fail to make it in, using the heads up display. And it was a lot of fun to fly. Question over here. - Were you interviewed or did you interview [LAUGHTER] - Well, I-- you know, I didn't So I applied just the And back then, you had to So I had gone to flight safety rating and also my air And I think that is part of that Southwest Southwest started And when I had to leave them-- because I was too old-- we were flying And at Southwest had to already have their Transport Pilot's certificate. And in any other only the captain So one of the was we only hire captains. And Southwest has been and they've only had And that was the airplane and went through the fence and killed a person in the car. That's the one fatal accident Now, some of that's But I think the quality of training and the has been a big So yes, I interviewed and it was a lot of fun. Well, I think I am out of time. And actually, I've run And I guess, we're going to after that. Before I call General Dailey I would like to ask-- who am I supposed to ask? Agnes Brown has a And so I would like to-- what's that? Oh, you can use-- you because I'm going to shut up. [LAUGHTER] Oh, OK. They'll bring up the-- bring So with that, thank This was so much fun [APPLAUSE] - Good evening. Thank you so much, Hoot. We certainly enjoyed that. My name is Agnes Brown, a member of the more importantly, a member Society. Over the years, I've seen in this museum. The opening of Hazy Center on Brothers' first flight, the center, and also the that we had during the 40th And all these and took place under the the wonderful leadership But when General Dailey arrived Museum, it was already And his leadership has The museum has truly become everywhere. We are often told that the members are the best And certainly, with that is going to take the location on the mall, that But there has never been for this institution He is a living with more than 62 years first as a marine aviator, NASA the John and Adrienne Mars and Space Museum. Although we look from the new director, we be a special place to be an emissary between communities and the To honor his extraordinary and to try to hold on to it is my pleasure to membership in the National to General Jack Dailey. [APPLAUSE] - Thank you. Well, Hoot, I had some But Agnes, thank you very I really appreciate it. To all the members it means a great deal to me. You didn't disappoint us. I've heard Hoot knew this was going to get a person with and in fact, some humility. It's hard to come across. [LAUGHTER] A couple of things And any of you-- we have we'll get a chance to refute between the F-14. I've never heard of an F-4 It must be that-- that you have right there. [LAUGHTER] But the fact that and he's done it with superb it's really our privilege And it's a special one for Night as the director. And so I'm going And it's because of you, Hoot. And I really do appreciate it. Thank you very much. [APPLAUSE] And I was pleased to wear your flight And the fact that you got But the real test is [LAUGHTER] [APPLAUSE] OK, Hoot and Rhea down at the visitor's desk for Is that true? Yes, OK. If you'll exit, you via the rear of the theater. We'll meet you down Thank you very much for tonight. [APPLAUSE]