(engine revving) - So this is it, the McMurtry Speirling. Power map four. So the full thousand-brake horsepower, and then 23,000 RPM on the fan. So, 2000 kilos of downforce, 0-60, in 1.3 seconds. (engine revving) Oh my word. Oh my word, oh. (engine revving) Wow. But the mad thing is, that rather like the McLaren the McMurtry Speirling's is really just a byproduct of what this fan car is really all about. And so today, we are going to show you what it can do in the corners. (upbeat music) (engine revving) This is McMurtry's very the world-renowned test In order to fully explore the wild limits of the Speirling fan car we'll be using this huge area that even takes into account to make sure it's perfectly flat. With a special machine, MIRA that perfectly replicates and Luffield corners at Silverstone. The car, just to recap, is the same one that smashed the hill with Max Chilton at the wheel. It has two fans capable of producing 2000 kilos of downforce. It's fully electric, but far from silent. Has a 60 kilowatt-hour battery, a carbon fiber monocoque, and a thousand brake horsepower, which it sends solely to the rear wheels via two Now, in order to experience the cornering for the first time, I headed out to drive around this simple, constant radial circle. Should be that easy, right? (upbeat music) Here we are, rolling out onto (engine revving) I'm just going to do a couple of laps just to scrub the tires in, remind myself where this (engine revving) circuit goes. It's such a cool thing just to be in. I mean, it feels really I think snug is the word actually. Amazingly, despite five feet wide, and 41 inches tall, or roughly the footprint the tiny Speirling will accommodate someone up to six-foot, seven inches tall. Those shelf-like bolsters felt a bit unnerving at first, but they're actually part of the LMP-1 standard safety systems. (engine revving) So, into this steady-state circle now, we've got no fans on at the moment. So I'm just, sort of, It's actually really quite nice steering, you can feel what the car's doing. Now, I'm going to put the fans on, so this is the world first on camera. So it's down here, and it's just going to start ramping up, that's 19k. Okay, so, let's feel what that's. Oh my word, you can feel the steering just load up instantly. (engine revving) Oh my word. That's mad. It's just, that is actually quite disorientating. (engine revving) Oh. My word. Okay, we have reached it. I think my eyes actually gave up before. (engine revving) Let's try that again. (engine revving) I'm not sure I can hold on. Oh my word. (engine revving) Right, I'm going to have to stop. (engine revving) Okay, right. I feel dizzy. My mouth is really dry, That is, I have never felt anything That is such a bizarre feeling of just this limpet-like grit grip. Nothing, nothing approaches that in terms of grip and how stuck that is and the sort of forces on my body. I mean, this is, like I say, 2.8G does not do that justice, for, like, the speed we're That's, that is just bizarre. This is not just for camera. If anybody's watched my films before, they'll know that I'm not hyperbole, unnecessary hyperbole. That is going to take a bit of thinking about. And think I did. But to be honest, it was more than I could really process in the minutes and hours afterwards. So here's me a couple of days later. I realized that I just sort of made noises for a lot of that, but that's what this car does to you. I was pulling 2.83G in that at up to 70 miles an hour, and my body just started The fluids started getting and it was like I needed my It wasn't that, it's a, it's because you've just got two You've got no gears to worry So it's, sort of, the barrier to entry, in terms of technical skill which makes it even more mind bending. It is just the sheer physical force that's being exerted on you, it makes it so discombobulating. You might have noticed are 19,000 RPMs, so we were getting about as opposed to the straight line stuff where it's the full But that's because McMurtry's this is the, sort of, the comfortable spot in terms of cornering for the tires. And more about tires in their But I thought that was What does it feel like? Well, as the fans come on, it's like somebody is just and you're just, sort of, you're just getting heavier and heavier. It's a bizarre feeling. And the G forces, I've a couple of times and pulled but this is almost more violent because you've got the grip and that just gives a totally, sort of, different, sort of, feel acting on your body. In order to give myself a breather and understand a bit more I thought I should have a who is McMurtry's Managing Director, and an all-around good egg. Tom, this is slightly or a BT46B, isn't it? Can you just explain, what is going on? What fans have we got here? What's going on to generate the downforce? - Yes, so, you are right. It's a big evolution I mean, they truly were and they've been a huge for delivering this car. But the whole system has been developed to a much more modern using all the latest, and trickery that we could, to make it. One of the really key things to delivering a great And so the beginning of the journey when you're trying to fan-based downforces, it's all about the skirt system. So this car particularly that does a wonderful job of sealing against the surface of the ground, making sure that actually, the air that's drawn from the fan system is kept to an absolute minimum. That really, sort of, I guess, differs from the Chaparral we've got a, sort of, that helps to make the the because by virtue of minimizing the losses through the skirts, we get this really, that delivers the downforce Other ways that it it's an electric fan system. So the beauty of using electric the correction for torque is absolutely instantaneous. So unlike, in the Brabham BT46B, where the fan was connected I think on the gearbox, to be a particular speed this is entirely independent. And the ability of the fans to compensate, as I say, is instantaneous. So we, it enables us to give us, to give this really, really, that the driver can really exploit. And in addition to that, again, different to those previous And the reason that we've it's almost like aircraft So we've designed the entire system to be completely redundant You felt the power of the it changes the characteristics of the car. So we had to deliver a dual system just to make sure that, should you have the the a blade failure or something, that you just couldn't predict, you've still got the vast on the other side and from the second fan. And that means that if it's not a case of a cars bearing off. In fact, it's, the system ends up being much more reliable than even, say, a wing on the front of a car that's very easy to knock It's worked out really well, so - And I suppose something there's a couple of things there in terms of the power drain, obviously running a fan but am I right in thinking that actually, that's less than you would have to have in terms of overcoming wings downforce? - Is that right? - Yeah, that's absolutely right. When you get to the point that you're doing a really the power that the system requires to deliver that downforce Essentially, if you could completely, perfectly seal the skirt system, you would need no power to run it in the same way that a a suction to stay stuck to a a window, by virtue of doing a with the ceiling, we are in a position where the power of the yet is delivering Formula In fact, this particular car, we believe delivers downforce, sort of, surplus downforce, more than up to really quite high speed, sort of, 160, 170 miles an hour leaked information you believe. - So it will drive on Everyone wants to know. (both laughing) - So it wouldn't just I think there'd be opportunity to do for all sorts of Tom while you were hanging up there. - [Henry] You could park it up there? - You could park it. (Henry laughs) I think we could, potentially, as doing the first ever you can go. - [Henry] I think I might let Max Chilton volunteer for that one. The skirts, by the way, so that you can clip curbs on a circuit. Although a full track limits breach that would break that crucial Oh, and just in case you're worried about following one on the track day, it has a multi-stage filtration system, meaning it doesn't spit anything larger than dust particles out of the back. Tom says it's essentially the Right. Time to get back in the car and try the full figure of eight course. (engine revving) Let's turn those fans back on. Fans please. Richard O'Brien quote. (engine revving) Right, let's try and really push this. (engine revving) Wow the acceleration out of there. You just stamp on the throttle, I'm still. (engine revving) That is nuts, absolutely nuts. (engine revving) You barely need to brake. (engine revving) Sliding through there, okay. (engine revving) I'm looking so much further ahead than I've had to before in my life. (engine revving) I mean, trying to talk and do this is, my mouth is genuinely dry. (tires screeching) (engine revving) There's another slide. And this is really tire limited. Sliding, catching the slide, didn't spin because you've The amazing thing is, even, (engine revving) when you do start to slide, there's still grip, it's like, (engine revving) Porsches, it feels lovely over the limit because it's still always gripping. How can human beings do this? But somehow I am. They've gone and made (engine revving) That's my breathing. I'm not trying to create some, sort of, blue movie soundtrack. (engine revving) You can hear the fans spooling down. (engine revving) I'll just do a cooling down lap, for me, more than the car. (engine revving) I'm quite, physically, I'm relatively fit. I think. I always have thought I am. I can do a 10k in, you know, I once did it in 34 minutes. This is just, (engine revving) it takes so much thinking about and this is just a simple, sort of, figure of eight with different and trying to, and you can you can catch those little slides, that's the weird thing because You think, I'm generating so much grip, how can I be sliding? But when you do, because it keeps that grip it's not, it's not losing you don't get a gust of wind which you hear the F1 It's just there the whole time. Even if I had spun, I hate But even if you do, you just apparently, it just stops ridiculously quickly because all the downforce is I know you're intrigued and well, just for you, I did go back out and I Here you go. (engine revving) (tires screeching) Oh, we've spun. Oh, I did what Max said. (engine revving) Wow, we stopped quick there. Whoa, it makes me slightly But it's another one of fascinating things about this car that I thought you just had to see. For reference, that was the facsimile of the loop corner at Silverstone. And the McMurtry would go through there at 66 miles an hour without spinning. And Lewis and co, in full qualifying trim, would be well over five miles Madness. Now, before I got out of the car, there was one more thing I wanted to try, a run from nought to 100, to nought again. Right. I'm at 4,000 brake horsepower, fans up to 23,000 rpm. And now I put my foot and, (engine revving) try and get ready, head And foot off the break now. (engine revving) (Henry shouting) Wow, that was nought to hundred to nought. Actually, it wasn't. That was a nought to 113 because, well, frankly, I just couldn't keep up I went from nought to 113 I then went from 113 back to So what does that mean? Well, it means a of under six seconds is Even crazier, it did that whole just under a hundred meters to get to a hundred miles an hour, and then 67.8 meters to that's utter madness. Part of the reason I was to highlight the braking. Because in a conventional downforce car, what you do is you smash the when you've got all that but then you have to bleed off the pedal as the downforce and speed decreases. In this, you don't have to do that. You can just keep your foot absolutely smashed against the pedal and it will take it, hence, the fact it's got which is, really, might for something that weighs Now you might be thinking that some of these ludicrous figures will be watered down for the when they go on sale, but you'd be wrong. So the car that people are is gonna be even faster than this. - Indeed, yeah. So, so we're building, we're building a derivation of the called the Speirling Pure. And it's, in honesty, remain very, very similar But under the car it's we've got an all new powertrain, got an all new battery and we, we are building So we're going 60 mil wider which, from our simulation suggests that we'll get another So a little bit more than And the lap time effect is Yeah, it's gonna be an amazing new thing. - That's just, I, I, I'm what I've just felt. So the idea of having, this is a, you know, so that's mad. In terms of this, this is going to be a track-only car, am I right? Because you've talked obviously about, we've seen the number plates and at some point, there - There absolutely will, yeah. And it's simply due to, give us a fan car and And, and so the, the, the, the the quickest way that we can get this car into the hands of our excitable customers is to do a track-only derivation. And yeah, we are just so excited to get this to market soon. - So with this new battery packs, what are we looking at in terms of, if I turned up to a track day, have you got any, sort of, how Is it one lap and then you're done? - On a circuit like Silver Stone National, The simulation suggests the outright lap record we would be doing 10-plus And I think most people find themselves desperate for a break after - And am I right in thinking that the, that's the current and this could actually - Certainly than the, yeah, So the, the Silverstone National record, I believe is held by, and yeah. And the performance of the but it, but hopefully as you've seen, it's very approachable. It's not, it's not just for It's, it's a car that and it's been lovely to see you exploit the limits of the grip with the downforce on today, really enjoyed watching it. (upbeat music) - [Henry] So there we are. Even more performance to It's going to cost But honestly, I don't but compared to the cost I can't see potential And the thing is, whatever else you might you are not going to It is a completely different which is probably why, slightly I sat on the car and at the end of the day. Speed, it seems to me, provides the one It's not my words. Those, the words of Aldous Huxley, in an essay that he wrote. And he was talking about the fact that, the car provided something that no man had ever in terms of speed. Because it was different in terms of being on a horse which went up to, say, 20, 30 miles an hour, perhaps. But the car could go so much faster. And so humanity was experiencing And that's kind of how I feel with this, because this is providing that, well, I don't know, that humanity has ever Yes, airplanes can pull massive G, but that's up there, kind of, with not really any reference points, and Formula 1 cars can't that this does at low speeds. It is genuinely mind and something that is, quite hard for me to get And I was asked when I got But it feels, sort of, wrong Because it feels bigger than that. When Neil Armstrong stood and experienced something no man had ever experienced Well that's sort of It's somehow bigger than that. I'm not saying this is but in automotive terms, it's incredible. (drum beating) Yep, completely failed to