Prison. The final frontier for some, a place where Others will get to leave, but wish they'd Here's 50 things nobody tells you about 50. We'll start with the USA, the country that than any other, and by a long way, too. According to 2020 data, there were 2.3 million that included federal and state prisons, jails, detention facilities. Just so you know, these numbers are not exactly People enter and leave facilities all the 49. It works out at around 639 people behind bars The US is still number one in per capita terms. Here are the countries that follow in the The number is per 100,000: Turkmenistan, 552. Palau, 552. Rwanda, 511. Cuba, 510. Maldives, 449. Virgin Islands (UK), 447. Thailand, 443. The Bahamas, 442. Let's stick with numbers for now. We'll get around to the messed-up stories 48. According to the Prison Policy Initiative, year. But that's nothing compared to jail. Around 10.6 million Americans enter jail every If you're wondering why that number is so jail very quickly, once they've got bail. Some of them have already been convicted for They number about 160,000 people a year. One-quarter of people who go to jail will Another reason for staying in jail is the afford to make bail. In 2019, the Chicago Tribune wrote that of were waiting for a trial. Half of them couldn't afford to pay bail, they could be electronically monitored. That begs the question, how many are innocent? 47. It's hard to say, because statistics tell to say they are guilty of a misdemeanor crime They just want to move things on, even if In fact, 95 percent of cases never go to trial. People take plea bargains, sometimes if they're That doesn't mean prisons are teeming with been wrongly convicted of a crime. The Innocence Project says it's between the US. Other sources put it as high as 10 percent. But why? 46. The answer is for many reasons. Some innocent people take a plea, especially lawyer and they've been convinced that if a hefty prison sentence. In court, an innocent person could lose because witness lied, or even a cop lied. Maybe during the interrogation, the police was overwhelmed. Let's now look at an extreme case when this 45. We've picked on the US enough, so now we'll In 1974, a 17-year old council worker named woman named Wendy Sewell. The case would become known as the greatest although that's questionable given witches Anyway, this young lad first told cops he'd working as a groundskeeper. He said he moved her body, and that's why He was interrogated for nine long hours. He also had learning difficulties, and there Guess what? At the end of the grueling interrogation, He was given a long sentence, with the condition ten years. Inmates believed this guy had hurt a woman, eight times. Later he was caught in something called the He couldn't be paroled because he refused Talk about a Catch-22. It's actually not that uncommon. We won't get too much into it, but the whole He should never have been sent to prison. The cops knew this. One journalist that tried to help Downing He said, "They made my life absolute hell I was pulled up for speeding, stopped and for my family." Downing got out after 27 years, and subsequent past had done some very sketchy work indeed. On release, he received around $1 million He told the press, "I never allowed myself Who could I have taken it out on anyway? I still refuse to." 44. The vast majority of prisoners in the US are We looked at the latest 2021 data from the of prisoners were in for drug offenses. No other crime came close, although offenses accounted for 20.2 percent of prisoners. Every 25 seconds, someone is arrested for all end up in prison, of course. 43. We looked into drug possession offenses, and One reason is that drugs are widely available In fact, there are reports stating that people got addicted to hard drugs inside to deal The vast majority of prisoners in for drugs merely addicts. Research shows that importers or high-level offenders doing hard time. On top of that, there is ample data to suggest and more of them go to prison for drug offenses As the Marshall Project said, "Rich drug The UK Guardian echoed that, saying, "The The story said you're much more likely to growing up or grown up poor. Prison is like a double-whammy. Pew Research said this, "More Imprisonment Pew discovered that the deterrent of prison drugs. This is why this is one very big hot potato Ok, enough of that. Who's served the most time ever? 42. We found a few names. Paul Geidel served 68 years in the US after 1911. The weird thing is, it was looking like a because of his good behavior, but then he He could have gotten out after 63 years, but to stay in another for five years. He died a free man in 1987, aged 93. 41. Francis Clifford Smith served over 71 years in 1950 in Connecticut. In 2020, he was moved to a nursing home. Now you'll see how innocent men can spend 40. In 1972, aged 26, Richard Phillips went to He was released 46 years later. He wrote this poem a few years into his incarceration: When you don't have a dime. To buy back the freedom you've lost? Ain't it odd. That when you pray to God. Your prayers don't seem to be heard? Ain't it sad. When you've never had. The freedom of a soaring bird?" He was finally exonerated in 2018, and later He told the media, "I just want to keep That's what I wanted to do in the first 39. In a paper titled, "Proceedings of the National percent of people in the US on death row are 38. Eighteen people in the US have gotten off were innocent. They had collectively served 229 years. Sometimes innocent people get executed, too, 37. US man Cameron Todd Willingham was executed after the case was said to have been heavily His last words were, "The only statement - convicted of a crime I did not commit." This is what an investigator later said, "The junk science." Johnny Garrett was executed in the US in 1992, It's said he didn't want to share any "I'd like to thank my family for loving The rest of the world can kiss my..." We omitted one word. When innocent Florida man Jesse Tafero was and witnesses said what they saw was pure The South Florida Sun-Sentinel wrote, "flames Now you'll see that executions of innocent 36. In Russia in 1983, a man named Aleksandr Kravchenko It turned out that the killer was none other In 1950, a man named George Kelly was hanged There had been unbelievable police corruption The cops basically set him up. In fact, police had the confession of another case, they held that information back. In 1989, a man named Teng Xingshan was executed later turned up to the surprise of everyone. Xingshan had committed no crime at all. 35. Prisoners get drunk while locked up on alcohol It's sometimes called hooch, or pruno, or The best brewers can earn ok money from selling One former prisoner said, "You can sell Each pant leg makes two and a half gallons, It's a good hustle." He said he cut pant legs and sewed the bottoms, Then he filled them with water. After that, he threw in five pounds of sugar, He then let all that ferment. Other prisoners have used bread for yeast. As for the sweetness, any kind of fruit works, It's important to "burp" the bag. We saw a guy on a podcast who said he'd the stuff when it exploded. 34. Another thing prisoners will pay good money It's not easy getting them in. Sometimes an officer can be tempted with cash, Other times the phones are "plugged" in uncomfortable. For a run-of-the-mill phone, you might be 33. In 2015, Brazilian prison officers discovered inside. They used cats. One cat that frequently went in and outside four chargers, and seven cards attached to 32. Just how much a man can plug is anyone's showed how a prisoner had plugged a foldable The British Prime Minister was recently given British prisoners were hiding "Kinder eggs" 31. Why would people go to such an effort, you The answer is the mark-up. Drugs in prison are way more expensive than sometimes get in on the dealing. It is a license to print money, and there to take the monotony away. In fact, because opiates can't be detected get into them even though they just want to Weed can be detected up to 21 days after ingestion. One podcast we watched said he took opiates out. He said then he went back to the first floor, He'd slowly get back to the upper floor, Then he got caught again and was sent back He called it the merry-go-round. 30. Even tobacco is expensive inside. One prisoner said he was getting stuff brought for just one small, rolled cigarette. That meant one pouch, cheap outside prison, In 2020, in an Irish prison, officers discovered grams of weed, two grams of cocaine, and 10,000 To give you an idea of how much that is worth, in the UK, just in 2017, 15,000 phones and A phone in a UK prison might go from $300 And those are low-quality devices. The same article said the synthetic drug called prison than on the outside. Cocaine, depending on quality, might cost That might go for $1,000 on the inside. The mark-up was even higher for a gram of This is why some people put eggs in their 29. Another way to get stuff in is when violent That happened to a man named Lee Davies in He was on incredibly low pay for such a stressful get phones and drugs inside. His money problems were over. He was told to wait in a car park some place, into his car. He then smuggled the package inside, and he He was eventually caught. He said later, "There's no excuse for working in that environment." He believes he was partly groomed by the prisoners. 28. He started on twenty thousand pounds a year, That is a very low wage, but the job has got According to job websites, a starting prison the US. Overstressed and underpaid is what you hear They are dealing with violence and outrage, on a daily basis. 27. Then there's what's called the prison Mass incarceration has become a business, The American Civil Liberties Union says mandatory bursting prisons, and on top of that, there Act. This led to more mass incarceration and massive There are many kinds of businesses that make You have the food services, handcuff makers, prison labor, and much more. This is how one person put it, "The 'prison-industrial and institutions; it is also a state of mind. The lure of big money is corrupting the nation's of safety and public service with a drive 26. These are some companies benefiting or that McDonald's, Wal-Mart. Microsoft, IBM, Target, Intel, Victoria's Nike, Nintendo. 25. If you want to know how much the prisoners Omaha Correctional Center after getting eight He was paid $2.25 a day for a 12-hour shift. But he also said one phone call cost him $5 24. For some regular prison work in some prisons, Just getting out of your cell is payment. Prison Policy said in Florida, if you are earn between $0.20 and $0.55 an hour. That seems to be about the going wage. Now for some more prison violence. 23. Not surprisingly, prisoners get killed in Gang violence is usually to blame, or at times committed on the outside, or someone just In 2008, there were only 40 homicides in US That number pretty much increased every year. In 2020, the last data we could find, the As you'll now see, violence inside prison 22. We looked at prisons and jails in Ecuador In February, the BBC reported that 79 people jails, although they were related to the same In April, the BBC reported five men were murdered again, gang-related. In July, Aljazeera wrote that 22 men were two prisons in that country. Gang rivalry was to blame, but overcrowding After that, Ecuador's president declared a 21. Ok, so you've all seen the movies that suggest or you'll either get beaten or exploited. Really, do convicted accountants end up putting It's actually a complex question, but we who've done a lot of prison time. There is no shortage of these people who now People say it depends on where you are doing have to get involved with a gang. Most prisoners give the advice, "Just keep They usually agree on one thing, though, and A British stockbroker agreed. He had the bad idea of starting an ecstasy After being locked up in Arizona, he said out of him. Gang members came into his cell and asked He didn't know what that meant. They actually wanted to see what he'd been society's most vulnerable. In some prisons, that could mean KOS, or Kill It's why some prisoners are housed in protective After he was deemed ok, he said he didn't friends. That made his life much, much easier. One former prisoner in the US said this, "The the only way to survive prison is one that of the DooDoo. I honestly think it's the gangs themselves notion." Another guy agreed, but he said hanging with He also said this, "In the yard, all the and shot callers. They may take advantage of the weaker ones, you stand up for yourself, they will usually you say no, they usually accept it." So, no, you won't have to join a gang. But as you'll now see, you also won't 20. There's the dining room, or "chow hall." If you don't get told where to sit by officers, This is where it helps to have made friends. You certainly have to show respect, so just about it will lead to you getting a bust head. One prisoner said at his prison, there were These were the tables where anyone could sit, respected prisoners. Most former prisoners agree on one thing; Even if you are a fiercely independent person, not recommended. 19. In the UK, race doesn't matter all that You usually hook up with friends, and if you're some. If there are gang rivalries, it's not about from. In London, or Liverpool, there have been what In some podcasts, former British prisoners sent to the northern part of the country, 18. If you do get attacked in prison, it is sometimes Sometimes it's just with a razor blade. Other times, the instrument will have a few This is so the wound is almost impossible The British media has reported a lot on this. Apparently, the wound leaves a really big That's bad, but this is worse. 17. One of the most horrendous things prisoners is throw boiling water in someone's face. They usually fill the water with sugar because In the past, in the UK, this has been referred After that, you need some good advice. 16. Prisoners often talk about the prison code, nonsensical a lot of the time. Still, there are some dos and don'ts prisoners DO Be polite and respectful as much as possible. If you are picked on or attacked, fight back Develop an exercise routine. Study the lay of the land. Educate yourself when something is available. Choose your friends carefully. Maintain good personal hygiene. DON'T Now you're nobody. Gamble. Take drugs. Borrow stuff, even if someone seems really Judge people. Steal. Stare. Talk to everyone about your crime. Fart, if you can help it. Snitch. 15. Sometimes inmates locked in their cells create These are to spray officers with urine, feces Just in California at three prisons there In that state, you can get five years in segregation 14. Prisoners sometimes use coded letters to get but if you can decode the message, something In 2018, a letter sent from a prisoner to of the ordinary, was an order to kill a staff You just had to read between the lines. Other times prisoners create their own ciphers, A gang expert who specializes in breaking a code says can give us nightmares. We need to know what these gang codes say, don't say' even more." 13. Perhaps one of the strangest things to happen when they have never had a conjugal visit, That happened in 2019. A woman had been behind bars for a year and murder, when she had a baby. She'd been charged with being the getaway It later transpired that she'd somehow "conspired inmate working at the prison. News reports say she hoped having a new child This next one is heartbreaking. 12. The youngest person ever to sit on death row This African American boy was arrested in In June, he was executed in the electric chair. He was so small that a bible had to be propped The investigation was an absolute travesty was all white. The grave he was buried in was unmarked. In 2014, the Civil Rights and Restorative evidence that George Stinney was innocent 1944." There wasn't any substantial evidence to less than useless. In fact, he had no support at all. It was a kid against the racist cops and indeed, The real murderer of Betty June Binnicker His conviction was overturned in 2014. 11. The oldest person executed was Walter Moody. He died by lethal injection in Alabama in He'd been convicted of killing a judge with 10. Prison is supposed to rehabilitate. That's why it's there, but often those Officers sometimes call the prison gates a It's hard to compare recidivism rates worldwide conduct a study, and there is lots of data The US National Institutes of Health did a regarding different countries. Nonetheless, it found that the percentage another crime within two years in England In France, it was 40 percent. In Finland, it was 36 percent. In Norway, it was 20 percent. In Australia, it was 53 percent, and in the 9. The US Supreme court in 2011 called California's It was said then that a whopping 70 percent behind bars within three years. The state's prisons were accused of not criminal behavior." That's why prisons are sometimes called It's hard to fully understand why people and habitual drug use, as well as falling for something. Critics have said US and other countries' than rehab, which is the opposite of the Norwegian As you know, that country has very low recidivism Ok, we think you need to hear some good news. Well, it's kind of positive. 8. A British guy named Stephen Akpabio-Klementowski While serving his 16-year sentence for drugs and two master's degrees. He had zero qualifications when he went in That's equivalent to junior and senior high He worked in the kitchens all day and studied quiet. He told The Guardian, "Sometimes I wonder The idea that you can study in an environment He said it wasn't easy, studying in what "I still have nightmares, 10 years after It's a really damaging environment," he He's now a lecturer and a regional manager to help prisoners. While he did well locked up, he is still very He doesn't believe prison acts as a deterrent He said, "People aren't being deterred by 69% over the past 30 years - and they're 7. Anthony Ray Hinton spent close to three decades He was exonerated in 2015. He's since written an award-winning book, Freedom on Death Row" and was awarded an Now you'll hear about a man who's more 6. The British man who's spent the longest He's been locked away since 1974, but for prison cell in the whole of England. He killed three men while in prison, and one British Hannibal the Cannibal." It was a brutal murder, but not as bad as Now he's in a special cell which is underneath It has thick doors with bulletproof glass. Even when you open those doors, he is actually He is allowed no contact at all with other He gets out once a day for an hour, but has They try not to make eye contact with him He once said, "I am left to stagnate, vegetate head-on with people who have eyes but don't have mouths but don't speak." Many people have called this inhumane. They know his story and feel sorry for him, offenses of the people he killed. We won't go into details, but we think you He is possibly the most locked-up man in the He once said, "I feel like I'm buried The prison wouldn't even allow him to have 5. The polar opposite of this is Bolivia's It's more like a village than a prison. There are cells to rent, markets to shop in, Prisoners make cash by selling cocaine paste Wives and children can live with the prisoner. There's also a prison hotel, a soccer pitch, Officers work there, but the prisoners themselves If a prisoner does commit a crime, they are If they commit a serious violent crime, they 4. We think the biggest prison in the world has It spans over 250 acres and is home to more Are Turkish prisons bad? Maybe they were in the 70s when 100s of US that quality hashish they so loved. When Billy Hayes was a student. he was sent to one. He wrote a book on his release, and it became He actually escaped in the end. He also said the movie exaggerated a fair The next country's prisons are bad, and 3. One prison with lots of westerners serving Klong Prem prison. Many smugglers have lived there and felt what cell, packed like sardines. One man actually holds a record there to this He's a British guy named David McMillan, posh accent. He's the only westerner ever to have escaped In prisons such as this, if you have money, There's a kind of anarchy in there and the McMillan had a personal cook, someone to do in it that had a TV. He even had a little office area. But when he heard that he would be transferred Hilton, he made a plan to escape. The Thais call this prison the Big Tiger, Many that go in, die there. McMillan successfully escaped, but the funny an umbrella he'd taken with him. When asked why he did that, he said, "escaping 2. One of the worst prison disasters we could in 1930. There was a huge fire, except the guards wouldn't One person described it like this: God to open the doors. And when the doors didn't open, all that was the meat off and hope it wouldn't be too long Some prisoners managed to overpower the guards, to shoot to kill. One prisoner later said, "Naturally all screaming for help and some of the men was of them were raving. It was a question to do what you could do 322 inmates died from the fire or smoke inhalation, Ok, let's finish on a positive note. 1. There's a prison in Finland called Suomenlinna The prison walls are actually just a small In the past it's has problems with prisoners to sneak in. The cells are like nice dorm rooms, and the you could ask for. Some prisoners are in for the most serious their term is close to the end. It's kind of like finishing school, the at large. Still, they do their last few years there Why, you might wonder? A prison official said this, "The main idea into the community. It doesn't make sense for an inmate to be to suddenly enter civilian life. We also offer rehabilitation for people who or mental illness." Now you need to watch, "50 Insane Facts Or, have a look at...