We have made many episodes on the history early successes, armies and much more. But no of each is to fall. The Mongol Empire was indeed through the collapse of the unified Mongol Empire, And while we see what went wrong for the It's National Testicular Cancer and our sponsor Manscaped is joining Testicular cancer is the most ages fifteen to thirty five, and about Manscaped, proponents of good hygiene have teamed up with Testicular Cancer Society to detect the cancer yourself while it's still And while you're there, there's thousand TCS Lawnmower 4.0s. It's a purple a collector's item that won't Manscaped just donated fifty thousand chip in to help fight testicular cancer, And as usual we've got a special offer: use our and free shipping. Join the Manscaped movement, The fall of the Mongol Empire is poorly Often inaccurately, it is stated that it collapsed in 1227, and the four khanates- the Golden Horde, emerged from this ruin. However, this is the Mongol Empire remained unified for remained not just surprisingly unified, but His son and successor Ogedei Khaan truly as no longer were conquests undertaken based on conquest. Simply remaining an independent power for Heaven had decreed all people must submit Mongol armies completed the conquest of north and conquered the western steppes before driving initiative of Ogedai and his advisers that the structure. Rather than leave the conquered on the influence of his advisers Ogedai oversaw the empire, which essentially divided The governments of each secretariat civilian governance and reconstruction after the Secretariat based in Qaraqorum, the head of These secretariats were often in who saw the lands of the empire as existing and acted as obstacles to the secretariats' goals Ogedai's successor Guyuk's two year reign, made the 1240s a brief stagnation But a grandson of Chinggis named Mongke seized killing a great many potential rivals to power. and launched a new effort to consolidate on a global level. For this he needed to leverage and enacted a massive, Asia-wide census to do so, was titanic armies simultaneously operating in while another great force under his brother independent powers of the Islamic world. of the 1250s, there was no reason to doubt the so far failed to withstand them, and this great of the world under their hegemony. Soon all would campaign against the Song Dynasty became bogged Disease, possibly cholera from tainted and in the summer of 1259 Mongke too succumbed while none of Mongke's sons ever seemed to have indication that Mongke's youngest full-brother, Ariq Boke had been left in the imperial capital absence, and in quick order, the Central as did Mongke's sons. Considering it had it could be that Mongke had left instructions in event of Mongke's death to ensure a smooth demise, Ariq began to organize a quriltai This did not sit well with Ariq's oldest surviving poor relationship. Khubilai's confrontations with greater autonomy and perhaps even independence, Khubilai's powers and executing many of Khubilai's proverbial dog house on the eve of Mongke's On Mongke's death in 1259, while the rest of the Mongolia, Khubilai continued to campaign. but needed more military victories to his name to of having been removed from office by Mongke Khubilai's own interest in Chinese culture making Doubtless, he expected great victories against Expecting there to be some time before the the Song until a message arrived from his Khubilai that his younger brother Ariq Boke was and expected Khubilai's support. Reluctantly but did not return to Mongolia. Instead, in the in what is now Inner Mongolia. Better known it had been constructed by Khubilai in imitation previously gotten Khubilai in trouble with in the spring of 1260, Khubilai had himself While pro-Khubilai biographers such as Ariq as rebelling against Khubilai, it appears in By Mongolian standards, his election was decidedly descendants of Chinggis Khan's children, and along the Onon and Kherlen Rivers. Instead close to China, and accompanied by the trappings himself a Chinese era name. Ariq Boke continued held in July 1260. For the first time, the After a summer of posturing and back and forth, by Though Khubilai would emerge the victor, were immense. After taking the surrender of Ariq, come to a quriltai to decide Ariq's fate and the four years of war, the Mongol Empire had the head of Jochi's descendants, Berke, had gone Hulegu. Berke was a Muslim, and while played a role in the hostilities, Berke was also northern Iran and Anatolia. These were lands Berke After learning of Mongke's death Hulegu had taken control of these lands, In normal circumstances, the Great Khan would for such things had happened before. But there was no one to intervene between Berke concurrent with the Toluid Civil War. By the khanates were effectively independent powers. but not into the 4 khanates of popular knowledge. there were actually closer to 6 khanates, ruled by of Chinggis Khan. Before the 1310s, the Golden descendants of Jochi: the ulus of Batu, the White Additionally, the descendants of Chagatai had by Ogedei's grandson Qaidu, dominated both his own the descendants of Khubilai ruled in the of Khubilai's brother Hulegu ruled over most the early 1300s with the dissolution of the Horde by Ozbeg of the Golden Horde, do we Now, we look at the continued history, and the Ilkhanate, the Chagatai Khanate, Established in the 1260s by Hulegu, the sacker of understood of the Mongol khanates with a rich The greatest is the chronicle of Rashid al-Din, al-Tawarikh, which forms not only one of the but also of the Ilkhanate's history Generally, Rashid al-Din portrayed the early khans more interested in hunting, feasting and viziers and military commanders to have their affected by an increasingly powerful noyad. The generals who served alongside Hulegu, and had been They took keen interest in khans who were kinder famines, economic woes from intense corruption to introduce paper money, as well as expensive, To Rashid al-Din, this instability ended with Though Rashid likely exaggerates the previous there seems to be strong support for a redirection which was Ghazan's conversion of Islam and efforts Ghazan oversaw economic revitalization. A major empire's agricultural base and farming population. Mongols who sought to provide for themselves to stamping out bandity with highway patrols. new silver currency, bearing not Mongolian of padishah-i islam. Measurements and weights based on those in Tabriz to facilitate trade were built to provide water for cities and enticing young women into prostitution. He the funds for massive new construction projects at Along the Ilkhanate's borders, he concluded a and invaded the Mamluk Sultanate, scoring the only in December 1299 [Wadi al-Khaznadar], though In 1304 Ghazan, like all good Mongol princes, succeeded in killing a great many potential rivals Oljeitu [r. 1304-1316] thus succeeded him, and he wavered between multiple faiths but with the other khanates he recognized great Mongol peace of 1304. So was the pax Oljeitu's greatest success compared to his brother When Oljeitu died in 1316, aged 36, his 12 year the guidance of the regent, the powerful noyan he was the first Ilkhan who was raised, and would uncle never showed interest in Shi'ism. Choban, Charles Melville, saw himself as a servant of powerful one, who combined adherence to the khans the young Abu Sa'id and ensured he had a proper and speak Persian and Arabic, while also versing Chinggis Khan and the noyad. Abu Sa'id throughout and after peace was reached with the Mamluks, Abu Sa'id Il-Khan's early reign was often the two fought off Chagatayid and Golden Horde the young Abu Sa'id earned the epithet ba'atar for Despite working well together and Abu Sa'id's desire for Choban's daughter, the killing almost all of Choban's family, including Abu Sa'id's sole rule was remembered as It was in this period that the famous traveller remarking that Abu Sa'id was still a beardless Yet despite no lack of effort on his When it became clear that no child would form in and fell onto Dilshad Khatun. She was a daughter who Abu Sa'id had murdered several years prior. ignore Baghdad Khatun, particularly when Dilshad As Baghdad Khatun's influence waned, Abu In November 1335, when Abu Sa'id was marching Baghdad Khatun is alleged to have made her it should be noted, who greatly enjoyed a good Baghdad Khatun wiped down Abu Sa'id with a of Battuta's tale, as this was far from the Abu Sa'id was dead, only 30 years old. This is With Abu Sa'id's death, the line of Hulagu became had pruned the lineage, and alcoholism took care lived past 35, with fewer and fewer heirs each causes beyond just alcohol. Scholars such as Anne of inbreeding, given the Il-Khans' preferences for The combined effects of rampant alcohol abuse may explain the alarming drop off in fertility the thirteenth century. While Hulagu had produced sons and daughters-- by the end of the century while his brother Oljeitu had numerous children Oljeitu only had three children ever reach of whom still predeceased him. Abu Sa'id himself, impregnating his widow Dilshad Khatun. There figure of the line of Hulagu to head the state. heir directly causing the fall of the Ilkhanate Melville, somewhat overstated. The image of the Edward Gibbon-- encourages us to overlook problems a gap had widened between the military elite, a lack of respect for the Chinggisids. The death issue in the Mongol Empire. The quriltai system could supply new khans at need, with a regent The unified Mongol Empire and other khanates form of Baghdad Khatun the Ilkhanate certainly The well-connected Baghdad Khatun was described who openly walked around with a sword strapped to In the opinion of some, Abu Sa'id was bossed Baghdad Khatun would have been an obvious regent. from Ghazan onwards had alienated the military disenfranchised from the government and that the Certainly, Islamization was the most obvious abandoned the traditional secret burials of and very public mausoleums. The quriltai as a major decisions was abandoned, and even the end by diplomacy-- must have felt like a betrayal of in government, and not replacing it with a new the Il-Khans had gradually undermined the need of When Abu Sa'id came to the throne in 1317, he was regency further reduced the khan's authority Only after Choban's death in 1327 did Abu Sa'id only eight years. His vizier, Ghiyath al-Din sought to enforce tax reforms that would have towards the regional princes and their appanages. only angered these military princes. Per failed measures was only widening the gap On Abu Sa'id's death in November 1335, it fell and steer the ship in the face of Ozbeg on December 5th, Ghiyath al-Din orchestrated the Ke'un. Arpa was not a descendant of Hulagu, Plucked from obscurity by Ghiyath al-Din, he for all indication is that Arpa Khan an "old school Mongol," in the words of every command of the Ilkhanid army, and in winter Arpa Khan returned triumphant, and Ghiyath al-Din competent commander proven in his defence of the around. Apparently, he had little taste for court was a Muslim. One anonymous Armenian chronicler least he was very proud of the "old ways." We too, choosing a man who would be more palatable In the opinion of Oleg Grabar and Sheila Blair, al-Din ordered the commission of a Great Mongol Persian national epic by Firdausi. An undertaking detailed artwork, it certainly indicates that the they were entering into a crisis anytime soon. Sa'id's widow, the pregnant Dilshad Khatun, had 'Ali-Padshah's sister, Abu Sa'id's mother Hajji effort to shore up his legitimacy, Arpa Khan commanders who had been alienated or jailed by from prison. And the blame for Abu Sa'id's who never had the chance to assume the regency. but of treason with the Golden Horde, beaten to death by a Greek slave with a club. direction. 'Ali-Padshah rallied those an energetic man who might reduce their given birth to Abu Sa'id's only child, a girl, At the start of 1336 'Ali-Padshah raised his own of a former Il-Khan, Musa was entirely a puppet and Shaykh Hasan Jalayir, who had once been forced 'Ali-Padshah in the name Musa Il-Khan armed a Arpa's army was defeated in the field. He and and killed. So ended the reign of Arpa Khan, the Arpa's death can be considered the true end of regional commanders held to the Ilkhanid state. of them the realization that each, too, could rule to have one on hand. From 1335 until 1343, no less Most are known only by their names and who down Arpa Khan immediately fought each other a grandson of Choban named Hasan-i Kuchik - Little daughter of the late Il-Khan Oljeitu, sister For the first time, late in 1338, Coins were minted in her name bearing the title of officially the ruler of the Ilkhanate, such as it Khan, held no real power, and largely was a tool By the middle of 1339 she was married off to the The pretext of an Ilkhanate was maintained until in 1353. The new Persianized Turko-Mongolian the Chobanids and Jalayirids, claimed descent but did not take the title themselves. Eastwards, while westwards new Turkic beyliks, rose. Chinggisid legitimacy as the basis for rule surprising figure to reinstate its legitimacy Tamerlane had risen to power from the ruins more poorly understood of the khanates, and its khans vying for power. For most of the thirteenth a grandson of Ogedei Khaan. The Khanate of the as Dzungaria, in today's eastern Kazakhstan Both Great Khans Ogedei and Guyuk had But following the seizure of power by Mongke Khaan the Ogedeids and Chagatayids. Most of the princes lands seized by the Central Government. Only a few Qaidu remained quiet in his isolated In the aftermath, Qaidu steadily sought to bring fighting with the Chagatai Khans and By the 1270s, Qaidu was strong enough to not declare himself its khan, but also begin to bring In 1282 he appointed Du'a, a grandson of Chagatai, proved a dangerous set of allies, and would raid arriving in the former capital of Qaraqorum. western Mongolia to the borders of India, where Contrary to popular belief though, there is for the position of Great Khan. He was Khan but never sought to challenge Khubilai After Qaidu died of injuries sustained in battle peace between the Mongol Khanates, in fear that In 1304 and 1305, the Mongols once again then Khubilai's grandson Temur-Olejitu, albeit the western khanates would not just continue the Yuan Khans, but also exchange embassies for instance, enjoyed revenues from lands With this gap in hostilities, Du'a and his dismantled the Ogedeid Khanate and After Du'a's death in 1307, over the next 27 Chagatayid throne. The rapid successions and made the khanate's leadership less able to There was competition between the various sons, and the old ways, and those influenced by Islam of Transoxania. As the khans grew increasingly the princes and lords in the eastern part of less influenced by Islam, felt ever-more left Tarmashirin, came to the Chagatayid throne also never even visiting the eastern half of the In summer 1334, a rebellion arose in this eastern In quick order Tarmashirin was killed, and loose. For thirty years the succession had been the position was open to all claimants. Various faiths, fought for the throne, and were usually The legitimacy of the Chagatayids Khans was eroded rulers, at best paying nominal heed to whoever At various times, there were even several khans a non-Chinggisid, Qazaghan, deposed the reigning In the same year, in the eastern part of the Tughluq-Temur, a descendant of Du'a. With 1347 becomes the usual date in scholarship for the Transoxania in the west, sometime still called the Darya River. Both halves of the Chagatai Khanate and referred to the other with disparaging Tughluq-Temur Khan converted to Islam, However, the sources indicate that the process of well into the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries. of the 1350s, Tughluq-Temur Khan used In two campaigns over 1360 and 1361, Tughluq-Temur In Transoxania Tughluq-Temur installed his withdrawing to Moghulistna. Many tribal leaders Hajji Beg, the chief of the Barlas. One member and was able to convince the conquering of the Barlas in Hajji Beg's absence. This though you may perhaps know him better by that refer to his limp: Aksak Temur in Turkish, Temur the Lame: Tamerlane. did not long enjoy his conquest, for like all his early 30s in 1363. So powerful had he been in parts of Moghulistan through to the seventeenth driven out of Transoxania in 1365 by a coalition and Temur of the Barlas. Soon after, Temur and a competition in which Temur emerged the victor. So began Tamerlane's great wars of conquest, to Temurid. Meanwhile, the Eastern Chagatayids rather-petty minor khanates. The very last of power in 1705 [Yarkant Khanate], by another Mongol we turn eastwards to Mongol rule in China. he had outlived his designated heir, passing it In the almost 40 years from Khubilai's death nine khans were enthroned: of them, only Temur and assassinations meant few khans lived past 35. of his grandfather, but within a year the treasury gifts for the princes after his enthronement. the Yuan court. The quota for court and capital year of Temur Oljeitu's reign, it was found to 18,000 clerks and officials being charged with the commitment to push through with charges, While it has been common to attest the Yuan lavish gift-giving--of which there was no shortage struggle. The fourteenth century was the start towards generally cooler and wetter temperatures. which in the fourteenth century manifested into the Eurasian steppe, droughts in north China and These began to be felt in the very In 1295, typhoons struck the Yangzi River multiple places and caused repeated flooding; in plagues of locusts that eradicated crops and harsher winters starved herds and forced These ecological problems directly Khubilai continued the Song policy of huang zheng, cash, grain, rice, animals and other supplies. It and relieving the burdens of the lower classes. for it was a basis of Yuan legitimacy. However, over a vast geographic area, this was an records and the Yuanshi reveal a dynasty facing a major famine somewhere in China almost every super typhoons on the southern coast coincided cold winters and unexpected frosts meant certain densely populated Yangzi River Delta, home to one areas of the empire, suffered annual droughts, which destroyed towns and farmland, causing In 1301 alone, a spring drought in the Yangzi arable farmland was destroyed for and a 40 meter high wave pushed 280 kilometres 100,000 starved in the aftermath. Only a month a freak August snowstorm killed herds in of Dadu was flooded; and a locust plague government relief. Grain and rice shortages and to provide more cash, more had to be printed, Inflation was the result, and Yuan paper money With seemingly unending waves of natural it seemed the Yuan were losing the Mandate On Temur Oljeitu's death in 1307 without surviving His nephew Qaishan was a man of the steppe with Hoping to rule like a nomad through his noyad titles, and palaces were spent on his friends found he spent over a year's worth of government reign trying to address this, increasing taxes A new currency was put into circulation, The volume of currency printed in 1310 was 7 times only in furthering inflation. On his death, in The new khan unleashed a violent purge of his and abolished his currency. Ayurburwada wanted a and reinstated the civil service examination translation of Chinese classics in Mongolian, and Such was the ongoing back and forth with each usually suffering a bloody overhaul and total Ayurburwada died in 1320, aged only 35: his his reign battling Ayurburwada's powerful His successor, his cousin Yesun-Temur, and after only five years on the throne Yesun-Temur's eight-year-old son Ragibagh Yesun-Temur's Chancellor, but the plan went awry head of the powerful Qipchaq Guard, El-Temur, El-Temur violently seized Shangdu, and young Soon after, Tuq-Temur's older brother Qoshila In August 1329 they met in a warm reunion, Four days later Qoshila was dead, But Tuq-Temur did not enjoy power for and his ally Bayan of the Merkit held real The Khaan dedicated his reign to studying and suffering immense guilt over his he had declared his brother's son Irinjibal An aging and ill El-Temur reluctantly agreed, and Great Khan... only to die two months later. The exiled older half-brother, Toghon Temur, though Toghon Temur was the longest-reigning ruling from 1333 until his death in 1370. At On El-Temur's death, his ally Bayan took his "good old days," under Khubilai, and sought Chinese which had blurred over previous decades. forbidden from learning Mongolian and service examinations cancelled, the general Yet Bayan also wanted to make the government and reducing stress on the empire's population encouraging agriculture, and improving and All his efforts were, of course, signed off by Bayan's centralization of power, and willingness violence, galvanized resistance to him, including Toghto and Toghon Temur exiled Bayan, who died a wanted to go back to the 'old ways,' succeeded the sinicization of the Mongol dynasty. was symbolized by Toghto. Only 26 years old at raised to prominence by his uncle. Unlike Bayan, things to Khubilai's time. To Toghto, Chinese Believing all dynastic problems could be solved Toghto sought to centralize and strengthen His first period as chancellor saw the removal of civil service examinations, greater incorporation before, and actual visibility to Toghon Temur his uncle Tuq-Temur for murdering Qoshila, Toghon Temur's own son Ayushiridara was and Toghto put great energy into molding the Throughout this political upheaval, the flight of Mongols and other peoples of the of the money printed was spent on trying before ultimately forbidding anyone from flooding every year of the 1320s annihilated and the population grew ever more agitated. 21 rebellions broke out. No new revenues while the costs of relief, war, the court, and While Chancellor Toghto imagined carrying his plans were cut short by the environment. unseasonal snowstorms eradicating entire drought, and epidemic; including, in the opinion For the general population, the field of uprisings in the 1340s. In 1341, there were including the Red Turban Movement. this was a number of loosely connected groups for a drastic change of society through military Toghto resigned his position in 1344, then returned triumphant in 1349 when recalled had grown bored of governing, Toghto was Toghto ordered the printing of great sums of back the Yellow River to once more enter the sea 20 days of nonstop rain caused the River to break cutting off the Grand Canal and draining into threaten the salt fields in Shandong and Hebei north of the Shandong Peninsula. The threat as the salt trade and its taxes provided Grand Canal needed to be kept open to transport There was intense opposition to the but Toghto forced the plan through. Printing pay for it, from May to December 1351, 150,000 long channel to successfully reroute the the salt fields were protected and the Yellow Toghto's project was designed to protect the but it accidentally sparked off its ultimate hungry and weak from years of famine, punished by and paid in money only a little above Even as work continued on the canal, a massive The Yuan were taken by surprise, and a number city walls having been rebuilt after the initial forces were poorly prepared and beaten back, These were not the highly mobile horse archers militias commanded by Mongols and Central Asians. emergency. He immediately organized the defense, New training and command structures were lest mismanaged and underpaid troops join in Toghto constantly shuffled larger military units, the empire to prevent them from forming mostly Chinese volunteers under Mongol and Turkic "nationwide apparatus of pacification," as termed important campaigns himself, Toghto began to halt, By the end of 1352, Toghto had brought Methodically, they retook cities and by the end major figure of a largely broken movement, Zhang And at the last moment, Toghon Temur Khaan For unclear reasons, the Khaan ordered Toghto and inept monarch, perhaps fearful of Toghto's replace him, Toghon Temur ensured that Toghto's instantly, much of the army deserting, and the Toghto, a loyal servant to the end, accepted his Toghon Temur sat almost idle as the Red Turban after the battle of Lake who soon declared the Ming Dynasty. Toghon Temur who fought each other as much as the Red Turbans. now enthroned as the Hongwu Emperor, sent his Temur and his heir Ayushiridara fled to Mongolia and on the 20th of September, 1368, Dadu came into The Hongwu Emperor renamed the city to Beiping, became the capital of the Ming Dynasty and was Aside from a few Yuan loyalists who held out China ended in 1368. The Yuan Dynasty, contrary to a dramatic climatic emergency, but could not could have survived such a threat while and economic turmoil that was continually In this respect, it remains impressive that the Even after their flight to Mongolia, the to claim they were the legitimate rulers of continuing unabated, though for historians However, by the start of the fifteenth century to puppets by the rise of the Oirats, whose Throughout the 1400s, Mongolia was ruled by the of these figures were quite powerful, and launched Oirat leader Esen Taishi captured the Ming Emperor The Ming survived the crisis, but their fear expansion and construction of the Great Wall a descendant of Chinggis Khan named Dayan Khan leadership, and so it would remain until the were conquered by a new power; the Manchus, dynasty to rule over China, the Great Qing. we now turn to the far west, to the After Mongol rule was firmly established over the 1240s, the successors of Batu were unassailable. independent of the Golden Horde, the Rus' providing tax, tribute and and each Rus' prince had to receive confirmation Firmly supported by both the Rus' princes and the resistance to Mongol authority in the Rus' lands. Jochid khan, and not where his attention was most Mongol rule reorganized the society in organization, where all the peoples of the steppe Grouped into units of 1,000 and further the new Mongol elite; the altan urag, the princes the military leadership. Each ulus was given transfer between units was forbidden, and they The revenues from the uluses, in the went to the Jochid khans. In this way the and the Chinggisid elite spread It proved a remarkably effective system for rebellion. The Jochid khan in this way could the khanate, and trade could travel easier without byproduct was the steady growth in the population Under Jochid rule numerous settlements were and from written sources. While many of these must of Sarai at its inception perhaps just thousands nomadic encampments turned into permanent and craftsmen emanating from central squares. The Sarai al-Jadid, stretches for 7 kilometers along 14th century may have held some 75,000 people. in the steppe, of warm and wet temperatures. agricultural production to supply these massive goats, cattle and horses the nomads supplied Various kinds of wheat and millet were and the Golden Horde was a primary regional exports for the Jochid state; the excellence of from the Rus' to India. The Golden Horde was Wares from China and Egypt are found in the these cities developed around supporting and trade across the Mongol Khanates. Jochid Khans and transplanting Rus' and Qipchaps to The Golden Horde's golden age was reached in the thirty year reign of Khan Ozbeg. In the final khanate began to ebb. Environmental data indicates beginning in 1280 and dropping precipitously after to less productive pastures and desertification. on their great herds of livestock, an upset to and sought shelter in the Horde's great cities. the Italian geographer Marino Sanuto wrote in Low lying farmland and communities driving yet more people to the cities. Khanate in the 1330s unraveled the overland trade The greatest disaster came just after Ozbeg's and undersupplied cities were ravaged; in Crimea, It was there in 1343 that Ozbeg's son infamously is alleged to have thrown plague bodies of plague would strike repeatedly for the population suffered less than the urban, while plague only came to the Rus' lands in the 1350s, On Jani Beg Khan's death in 1357, the dynasty's each other and by the start of the 1360s the line to any claimant descended from Jochi. During the some are only known from coinage minted in their pushed out by another contender or power broker; who from his base in Crimea became the While the Jochid wasted their energies in two regions weakened. Lithuania seized the far west, the eastern wing of the ulus became independent. treks to the Horde for confirmation. The Rus' previously the Khan's favourite tax-collector, victory over Mamai at Kulikovo in 1380, when to provide tribute. Shortly after, Toqtamish, a in overcoming Mamai and the other khanmakers, and Rus' princes' tardiness with in-person submissions lands, sacking Moscow in 1382 and sending Dmitri its standing in Russian popular memory, did not Yet Dmitri's policies over his reign solidified the Rus'. On his death in 1389 his son was though the Rus' were still vassals of the khan. combat inflation and reset the Horde's diplomacy. Moghulistan he renewed friendly relations while of the Horde. His vision was a renewal of the he seek to revive the overland trade routes, which he also presented himself as the heir to Chinggis course with the master of Central Asia and his Tamerlane. Toqtamish wanted Khwarezm and the desired both. The two great generals went to war victor. Over 1395 Tamerlane systematically sacked ensured the near total dismantling of the urban After Tamerlane's withdrawal, Toqtamish and his Edigu. As he was not a descendant of Chinggis beylerbeyi empowered by Tamerlane he controlled reduced the khans to puppets, removing those strengthening the Horde, even retaking Khwarezm in 1408. Some economic recovery is indicated To help legitimize himself he also furthered population, continuing the process begun by rival factions put up their own khans, and the In 1419 Edigu was finally killed by one died the final figure who had the capability of The 1420s saw another decade of khans who ruled situation stabilized slightly over the 1430s Khan in the east, Kuchuk Muhammad in the Volga Kuchuk Muhammad's nearly twenty year reign[2] the state the Great Horde. The Rus', who spent still paid tribute to the Khan of the Great Horde. new claimants continued to arise. One Khan, Ulugh being ousted from Sarai; on the Ural River emerged when Kuchuk Muhammad's son Mahmud was ousted by and in 1442, Crimea and the surrounding steppes Hajji Giray, establishing Crimea's long ruling Giray, dedicated their lives to fighting the declining Great Horde. In a twenty year struggle, successes, overrelying on useless Polish allies Ivan III continued the domination of Moscow over recognized the overlordship of the Khan, though khans. From the 1440s onwards Rus' tribute to the Ahmad Khan frequently sent messengers demanding his submission in person. The ever more frustrated in 1472, ordered another attack in 1480 in Ivan marched against him, and the armies summer and into the autumn. Ahmad waited in vain arquebuses were fired; Ivan worried the river Ahmad retreated first, downtrodden his ally had So ended the Great Stand on the Ugra Only centuries later did Rus' chronicles see It did not directly affect either Ivan sent a message to Ahmad's son and successor, earlier relationship in the midst of a while tribute, under different names, After Ahmad Khan's death, his sons attempted to throats. Shaykh Ahmad emerged the victor, His cousin in Astrakhan defied him; Ivan III of him; efforts to bring Lithuania into a military brought further misery; harsh winters and poor year of the 1490s. Famine weakened his forces, to neighbouring khanates. Shaykh Ahmad led his seeking to push west of the Dnieper for greener snowstorm, his demoralized army suffered for Already depressed from the failure of the the last of his brothers fall ill and die. As the last of Shaykh Ahmad's will broke when his and remaining troops. When Mengli Giray met the Khan of the Great Horde was caught with his ordu looted, Shaykh Ahmad Khan spent a political prisoner. So, according to career of the final Khan of the Golden Horde end. though, how Mengli Giray began to style himself as in diplomacy by his Ottoman overlord, the to contemporaries, the Great Horde did not end branch of the dynasty, as it had been dozens power of the Giray Khans grew considerably, and onto the thrones of Kazan and Astrakhan. The by Nogais, launching a succession struggle that the Crimean succession. Meanwhile the alliance particularly Ivan IV and his crusade-minded eager to gain access to the Volga trade, taking In 1552 the first khanate, Kazan, fell to The powerful Crimean Khan Devlet I Giray sought and in 1571, even succeeded in capturing and a humiliating defeat the next year. The Crimean Golden Horde to Moscow, which soon stretched deep had left the Russians nothing but depopulated, to the south did the Crimean Khan's armies stop finally annexed, thus ending the last vestige We are planning to cover the fall so make sure you are subscribed and Please, consider liking, commenting, and sharing - without our kind patrons and youtube channel in the description to know our schedule, get and much more. This is the Kings and Generals