- Hi, I'm Jacques Pepin and I'm Cooking at Home. We are cooking mussel today and I wanna show you the I have a teaspoon, teaspoon (hand hammering) Okay. (knife chopping) I am putting one cup of wine in there. I have two pound of mussel here. (wine pouring) It's a lot of wine, but you'll see and about half a cup of onion, dash of salt with that, a good dash of pepper, like one tablespoon olive oil, and that's it! (utensil scraping) Go through a strong boil, (utensil tapping) cover it and cook it five, six minute. Okay! All my mussel are open now. And this is, as I said in the bistro, this is the way you would with all of the juice and all that. But here we are doing So, with this here, (utensil tapping) the juice, I have a (sniffs) We are going to do a famous soup that I learned when I came It was called Billi Bi, B-I-L-L-I B-I. And that project was invented (sniffs) when the American came to France to deliver France in 1944, '45. At that point, a famous cook there, a woman cook, did that dish in honor of one of the GI, whose name was Billy, so, Billi Bi. And I never heard of that in France, but (sniffs) I learned it I'm going to add one and a half teaspoon of potato starch here. You can use arrow root as well, it's more expensive (sniffs). Though you can use (sniffs) corn starch. Of course, a bit different, but my favorite is a potato starch. Very expensive and easy to use. We use about a tablespoon of water or so to dilute it. (utensil scraping) That's it. (utensil tapping) I have to say that at the Pavillon we used to put champagne and white wine to pull them out, do the soup with that, the famous Billi Bi. The mussel was not even used a lot of ways. In any case, here, I have mine close to a boil. So, I will put it in. (utensil scraping) The beauty of that type of starch is that right away as it touch it, it will thicken on contact. I'm putting a good dash to give it some hotness. Remember, this is going to be a cold soup. (utensil scraping) It should be highly seasoned. (sips) Yeah, that's good. It's coming to a boil, I will add it directly in there. (soup pouring) Add my half a cup of cream here. That's about it. (utensils tapping) That will thicken a And this would be a soup (utensil tapping) I would say for four people because it's very rich. And a couple of tablespoon, please maybe two, three tablespoon of chives in there. Okay. And this now (utensils clanging) will cool off and be served cold. So, here I have about half of the mussel here. Three, six, nine, three, about 16, 18. I'm gonna do that like we do escargot, with a snail butter. The other one here, I'm going to do it as a So, I'm removing it from the shell. (shells clicking) Okay, now for this one here, for that amount, I'm going to put about a good (utensil clanging) Here I have about one tablespoon of oil, olive oil, two tablespoon of parsley. (glass tapping) We have a good teaspoon of garlic here, a dash of salt, a good dash of pepper. I have a half a slice of bread, a good half a slice of bread here (knife chopping) that I'm going to cut small. I could do breadcrumb to put on top, but it turned out that it works pretty (knife chopping) I mean it's not really breadcrumb, but okay, add it in there with this to do a paste. And, of course, you can if you decide to do the soup, do that. And now, what I want to do is to cover each of those mussels with that butter, bread, garlic mixture, which is similar to what you know, snail in the French style. (shells clicking) And this will go under the broiler for about three, four So, you can do that ahead. Now, for that mussel, I call that mussel remoulade, take a remoulade sauce. I have a cup of mayonnaise here, a good teaspoon of French mustard, about a teaspoon, a teaspoon I'm gonna put a dash of The gherkin here, which has a small (indistinct). I mean if you don't have it, okay. All right, in there. And maybe a teaspoon And I will put a little bit A tablespoon of parley. So, that's a good sauce that you can use for other things, that type of remoulade. And we have our mussel in there. Even some of the onion (dish knocking) (spoon stirring) That's it. And this is quite rich, so I probably would do Mm, delicious. I served that into my Yeah, that would be, that would be two portion with that pound of mussel, maybe a bit of parley on top. Okay for that. And this is now just out So, you serve that the certainly much less expensive than snail. And this is it! We have the mussel the Billi Bi soup, and the I hope you will enjoy all of those dishes. Happy cooking! (soft bright music)