between the human and Do you think that AI Lemme ask you how you democracies? What are some arguments for and against a future in relationships with AI? What is your worst case - I'm Yuval Noah Harari. I'm a professor of history of Jerusalem and the of Information Networks If you consider, for to reach the moon, to split and yet with all our knowledge and wisdom, we are on the And a traditional answer that there is something But the problem is not in our nature. The problem is in our information. If you give good people bad information, they make bad decisions. So why is it that the quality of our information did of years of history? Why is it that very sophisticated and 21st century have been as susceptible as stone age tribes to mass delusion and psychosis and the rise of Stalinism or Nazism? - Good evening everybody. It is a privilege for me I've been a long time fan of his back when Sapiens was first published, and there is so much to talk and how we think about AI and how we think about this new reality. Something that I think was books about reality and and in a world where it's and in a cloud, in the sky and a whole new way, what think about history. So thank you for being here. We're gonna talk about so many things, but I'm gonna tell you where If I could, and I wanna This is you, you said that &quot;Human kind gains enormous power by building large networks of cooperation, but the way these networks to use power unwisely. Our problem then is a but even more specifically information problem.&quot; I want you to try to unpack that for the audience this evening because I think that that more book explains or at least sets the table for what this discussion is all about. - So basically the the and of much of human history why are we so stupid?&quot; That's the key question. I mean, we can, you know, we can split the atom, we can create AI, and yet we are on the verge and not just through one way, like previously we just had nuclear war to destroy ourselves. Now we've created an entire menu of ways to destroy ourselves. So what is happening? And you know, one basic that there is something That we reach for powers to use wisely. That there is really something And the answer that I try that the problem is not in our nature. The problem is in our if you give good people bad information, they will make bad decisions, And this has been happening because information isn't truth and information isn't wisdom. The most basic function of Information connects and unfortunately, the easiest of people together is not with and fantasies and delusions. - I was gonna say, there's, that information was supposed access to information was the thing that was supposed a better planet. - Why would it do that? - Well, there was a sense that didn't have access and other things didn't have access to information and didn't have access. And maybe to put a point - Hmm, And now to go back to sapiens, frankly, you talk about different And this is what I think because you talk about objective reality. You know, we can go outside and we can see that it's not And you'd say that's an But then there is these that you talk about, which makes what you're describing this idea that we as a that we are storytellers and that we are okay, oddly enough, with what you've described - Yeah, I mean, to take an to build an atom bomb. So to do that- - Suppose? Just suppose somebody wants to build an atom bomb. You need to know some facts to build an atom bomb. You need some hold on, If you don't know that E=mc2, if you don't know the fact of to build an atom bomb. But to build an atom bomb, besides knowing the fact of physics. You need millions and millions of people to cooperate. Not just the physicists, but also the miners who mine uranium, and the engineers and and the farmers that grow rice and wheat in order to feed all and miners, and so forth. And how do you get millions of people to cooperate on a project If you just tell them the E=mc2, now get to it.&quot; Nobody would do it. It's not inspiring. It, it doesn't mean anything in this sense of giving motivation. You always need to tell them some kind of fiction or fantasy. And the people who invent the fictions are people who know the facts the nuclear physicists are who are experts in Shiite increasingly, the physicists In the Soviet Union, they got it from communist from Hitler and Himmler. It's usually the people who that give orders to the people of, of, of nuclear physics. And one last point, crucial point is that when if you build a bomb and ignore the fact of physics, But if you build a story and ignore the facts and whatever, the story still explodes and usually with a much bigger bang. - And so one of the underlying in my mind as a reader, is that to be used for these purposes. - Yes. And that AI ultimately is going to tell untruths and unwise stories. And that those who have the to be able to use it in this way. Do you believe it's that in the wrong way, or that the AI is going to use the AI in the wrong way? - Initially, it'll be the people, but if we are not careful, it'll get out of our control and it'll be AIs. I mean, maybe we start by saying something about because it's now kind of this and there is so much hype around it that it's becoming difficult Whenever they try to sell you something, especially in the financial it's an AI, this is an AI and this is an AI coffee machine. So buy it. It's like- And so what is ai? So if we take a coffee not every automatic machine how to make coffee when you it's simply doing whatever it to do. For something to be to learn and change by itself and ultimately to make decisions and create new ideas by itself. So if you approach the coffee machine and the coffee machine on its good morning Andrew. I've been watching you for and based on everything and your facial expression and whatever, I predict that So here I made you an espresso. Then it's an AI and it's really an AI. If it says, and actually I've called 'Best-preso,' which is even better. I think you would like it better. So it took the liberty Then it's an AI, when and create new ideas by itself. And once you create something the potential for it to get out of control and to start manipulating you is there. And that's the big issue. - And so how far away do - When OpenAI developed they did all kinds of tests. What can this thing do? So one of the tests they gave, GPT-4 was to solve capture puzzles that when you access a and they want to know if you are a human being or you are a bot. So you, you have these twisted letters and symbols and- - You guys all know this, and it says which one has and you see the animal and you click the animals. - And GPT-4 couldn't solve it, but GPT-4 accessed TaskRabbit, which is an online site to do all kinds of things for you. And you know, these so humans can solve them, but So it wanted to hire a human Now, and this is where the human got suspicious. The human asked, &quot;Why do you need somebody to solve your cup puzzles? Are you a robot?&quot; And at that point, GPT-4 I have a vision impairment, with these captures.&quot; - So it knew how to lie. - It, it had basically theory It, it, it knew what, you know, there's so many different explanations and lies, you can tell. It told It's the kind of lie that- to ask any more questions about it. I will just take the word of GPT-4 for it. And nobody told it to lie and nobody told it, which It learned it, the same way that humans and animals learn things by - Let me ask you a different question? To the extent that you believe that the computer will be with the help of the computer, we be able to avoid these problems on the other side, meaning there's a cat and mouse game here. - Yep. Yeah, between the human and the to be more powerful, and maybe but be able to get at - Potentially yes. I mean the, the point of of writing a book about it And that also the AIs are not It's a question of how We still have the power. We are still at, at the present moment. We are still far more powerful in very narrow domains like They are becoming more but we still have a huge edge. Nobody knows for how many more years. So we need to use it and make sure that we of this technology in, - Okay, so I'm gonna make What would you do? How would How, what, what is it and world where we don't we don't have people who like to interact and even talk to each where we've talked about at least in the United States and have done next to nothing, what that looks like? - You know, there are many now and we can talk about that. One key regulation is make for the actions of their of the users, for the actions of the, And another key regulation cannot pretend to be human beings. They can interact with us But beyond all these specific regulations, the key thing is institutions. Nobody is able to predict how how this is going to develop So any, any thought that we can now kind of regulate in advance, No rigid regulation will be able to deal with what we are facing. We need living institutions and also the best technology that can identify problems as they develop and react on the fly. And we are living in an era hostility towards institutions. But what we've learned again and again throughout history is that only institutions are Not single individuals and not some kind of miracle regulations. - Play it out. What is the- and you play it out in the to dictators and your real fears. What is the, your worst - One of the problems with AIs is that there isn't just like With nuclear weapons, one of the good things it was very easy for everybody because there was basically one nuclear war. With Ais, because they are- they are they are agents. That, that's to understand about them. And atom bomb ultimately decisions about how to use Humans make these decisions. It's an autonomous agent that, and can invent ideas by itself. And therefore by definition of dangerous scenarios that, many of them, we cannot predict because they are coming from that think differently than us. You know, the, the acronym for artificial intelligence, but I think it should stand Not in the sense that coming that it's an alien kind of intelligence, it thinks very differently And it's not artificial because an artifact again is something that we create and control. And this is now has the what we can predict and different scenarios, the one which I think speaks and also to to human's deepest fears is being trapped in a world of delusions created by AI. You know, the fear of robots and shooting people and whatever, this is very new. This goes to the mid 20th century. But for thousands of years by a much deeper fear. We know that our societies are and there was always the fear inside a world of illusions and delusions and fantasies, which we And we'll not be able to escape from that. We will lose all touch - Part of that exists today. - Yeah. And you know, it of the cave in Plato's of prisoners chained in wall, a screen, and there are shadows and they mistake the shadows for reality. And you have the same and Buddhist philosophy of of illusions, and AI is kind of the perfect tool to create it. We are already seeing it If the main metaphor of the early internet age was the web, the world wide web and the So now the main metaphor is the cocoon. It's the web which closes on us, and I live inside one information cocoon. And you live inside maybe a And there is absolutely no because we live in separate, - Lemme ask you how you democracies. And let me read you because I think it speaks to maybe even this election &quot;The definition of democracy as a distributed information network with strong self-correcting mechanisms stands in sharp contrast that equates democracy Elections are essential part but they are not democracy. In the absence of additional elections can easily be rigged completely free and fair. By itself this too doesn't guarantee democracy for democracy is not the same thing as,&quot; and this one's interesting, What do you mean by that? - Well, many things, but I we just saw in Venezuela and if the dictator has the so it means nothing. The the great advantages of democracy is that it corrects itself. It has this mechanism the people try something, for a leader, let's try for a couple of years. If it doesn't work well, we The, the, the basic ability let's try something else. This is democracy in Putin that we made a mistake, let's, let's try somebody else. In democracy you can, but You give so much power for so much power to a leader, to a party, to enact certain policies. But then what happens if that leader or party utilize the power not to enact a specific but to gain even more power and to make it impossible That was always one of the key you can use democracy to gain power and then use the power you Erdogan said it in Turkey, I think best. He said democracy is You take it until you reach a destination, then you go down. You So that, that's one key problem that have been haunting democracy you know, from ancient And for most of history, large scale democracy because democracy in essence between a large number of people. And in the ancient world, you could have this conversation in a city state like but you could not have it in of people because there to hold the conversation. So we don't know of any example before the rise of modern information technology So democracy is built on top And when there is a big change like what is happening there is an earthquake in the - Who is supposed to in these democracies? And the reason I raised we have a big debate going about free speech. - Yeah. - And how much information What access to information Mark Zuckerberg just came and said that, you know, during the pandemic that in retrospect he wishes This gets to the idea of truth and it also gets to the idea of what information- you said - Yeah. - Are we supposed and decipher what's real ourselves? Is somebody else supposed to do it for us? And will AI ultimately be that arbiter? - Well, so the, the, there of different questions here. One about free speech and the other about who I mean, most important thing is that free speech includes to tell fictions, to tell fantasies. So it's not the same as Ideally in a democracy, you You also have the freedom - You say ideally. Why is that ideal? - Hmm? - Why is it ideal? That's, again, that's - Okay. - And this is something that because the tech giants, they are constantly confusing with the question of free speech. And there are two different questions. We don't want a kind of truth police that constantly tells human beings what they can and cannot say. There are of course limits even to that. But, ideally, yes, people should be able to also tell fictions and This is information, it's not truth. The crucial role of distilling out of this ocean of information, the rare and costly kind of This is the role of several institutions in society. This is the role of of journalists, this And the role or the aim of these institutions to limit the freedom of of the people, but to tell us what is the truth. Now the problem we now face is that there is a sustained and on the very notion because the dominant worldview in large parts of both the left and the right, on the left and on the right a populist the only reality is power. All, all the world, all the universe, all reality is just power. The only thing And any human interaction, like we have in this conversation, is just a power struggle. And in every such interaction, when somebody tells you and this is where Donald and they shake hands, they agree on it, when the question to ask is There's no such thing. The and who is losing? Whose privileges, like what I have just said, whose privileges are being served by it? And the idea is that again, people at large, they're And this is an extremely cynical and destructive view which Luckily, it's not true. we look at ourselves. If we start to understand humanity just by looking at ourselves, I want some power in life, but it's not the only thing I want. I actually want truth also. I want to know the truth the truth about the world.&quot; And the reason that there is that you can't really be happy if you don't know the truth about yourself and about your life. If you look at these people People like Vladimir or Donald Donald Trump, They don't seem to be particularly happy. And when you realize and I yeah, I really want to know at least some truth about life, why isn't it true also of others? And yes, there are problems there is corruption, there is influence. And so, but this is why we have a lot of different institutions. - Okay, I'm gonna throw You talked about Putin, you talked about Netanyahu. He's not a politician, but he might want to be some point, Elon Musk. - Hmm. And the reason I ask, talking about truth and information, he's somebody to set all information free. - Yeah. that if the information is of us, will be able to There are others who believe that all of that information will obscure the truth. - I think it's a, again, of information and truth. The idea that you just open the floodgates and let information flood the world and the truth will You don't know anything about history if this is what you think. It just doesn't work like that. The truth, again, it's costly, it's rare. Like if you want to write a or an academic paper or whatever, you have to research so much. It's very difficult. It takes If you want to create some fiction, it's the easiest thing in the world. Similarly, the truth is because reality is very complicated. Whereas fiction and fantasy can be made And people in most cases, - Right? Whether you think about the or the truth about individuals, the truth is often unattractive. It's painful. We don't want to that we inflict sometimes or on on ourselves. Because the truth is, is and it's can be painful in a it will lose. This is why we need or like academic institutions. And, again, something very important My problem with Facebook and so forth, I don't expect We have to be very, very careful about censoring the expression My problem is algorithm. - Even when they're not telling truths? - Hmm. - Yes. Even, even when they're You have to be very careful free expression of human beings. My problem is with the algorithms. That, if you look at a historical of the Rohingya in Myanmar in 2016, 2017, in which thousands of of thousands were raped, and hundreds of thousands were expelled and are still refugees in This ethnic cleansing campaign was fueled by a propaganda campaign that generated intense hatred among Buddhist Burmese in Now this campaign, to a large extent, took place on Facebook. And the Facebook algorithms played a very central role in it. Now, whenever these and they have been made by and so forth, Facebook basically said, &quot;But we don't want to censor That all these conspiracy that they're all terrorists they were created by human beings. And who are we, Facebook, to censor them?&quot; And the problem there is that the role of the algorithms was, at that point, was not in it was in disseminating, in because people in Myanmar of different kinds of content. In 2016, 2017. There were but there are also sermons on and biology lessons and so much content. And in the battle between, what will get the attention the algorithms or the king makers and the algorithms were a clear and simple goal: increase user engagement. Keep more people, more because this is the basis for Facebook's business model. Now the algorithms, and this goes back to AIs that and invent ideas by themselves, nobody in Facebook wanted there to be an ethnic cleansing campaign. Most of them did not know and what was happening there. They just told the algorithms and the algorithms of human guinea pigs. And they discovered that if and the fear button in that human glued to the screen. So they deliberately conspiracy theories or sermon on compassion. And this is the expectation, but if your algorithms deliberately spread hate and fear because this is your - This is your fault. - But here I'm gonna I'm gonna make it more complicated. And the reason we we're and Elon Musk is that the algorithms that are effectively building scraping all of this information off of these sites. This human user-generated content, which we've decided everybody Except once the AIs see it, they will see the conspiracy theories, they will see the misinformation. And the question is how the AI agent will ever learn - That is a very, very old the editor of the New of the Wall Street Journal, have dealt with this question before. Why do we need to start again as if there has never been any history? Like the question, &quot;There is how should I know what's People have been there before. If you run Twitter or or Facebook, you are running one of the biggest media So take a look at what media with in previous generations - It's basically... for what's on their sites right now? - The tech companies? - The tech companies should be liable - No, they should be of their algorithms. If their algorithms of the newsfeed a hate it's on them, not on the person who created the conspiracy The same way that, you of the New York Times decide to put a hateful conspiracy of the first page of the New York Times. And when you come and and tell them &quot;What have you done?&quot; They say, &quot;I haven't done anything. I didn't write it, I just decided to put it on the front That's all.&quot; That's not, Editors have a lot more power than the authors who create the con- It's very cheap to create content. The really key point is what I'll give you an example that when Christianity began, there was so many stories circulating about Jesus and about the disciples Anybody could invent a story And there was no Bible, there was no New Testament or a hundred years after Jesus, or even 200 years after Jesus. There are lots and lots of At a certain point, the leaders of the Christian Church in &quot;This cannot go on like this. We have to have some order How would Christians know which texts to read and what are forgeries or whatever that they should just ignore?&quot; And they had two church councils in Hippo and in Carthage, today in Tunisia, in the late fourth century. And this is where they, The texts were written so many different people. They decided what will get into the Bible and what will stay out. The book didn't come complete form. There was a committee that decided which of all the texts will get in. And for instance, they decided that a text which claimed Paul, but many scholars today believe that it wasn't written by Saint Paul, the first epistle to Timothy, which was a very misogynistic text, which said basically there's a and to birth children. This got into the Bible. Whereas another text, The Acts of Paul and Thecla, which portrayed Paul preaching and leading and doing miracles and so forth, they said, nah, And the views of billions of Christians, for almost 2000 years, about women and their capacities and and in the community, it was decided, and not by the authors of First Timothy and The Acts of Paul and Thecla but by this church committee who sat in what is today Tunisia and and decided this will be This is enormous power. The power of curation, You know, you think about of newspapers in, in, It's the editors who have the most power. Lenin, before he was his one job was chief editor of Iskra. And Mussolini, also, first then he was editor. Immense power. And now the editors You know, I'm here partly on a book tour and I know that my number one Like if I can get the algorithm to recommend my book, So it, it's an immense power. And- - How are you planning to do that? - That's above my pay grade. I mean I'm just sit here on the, on the stage talking with you. There is a whole team that decides, oh we'll do this, we'll do that. We will put it like this. But seriously, again, when of the recommendation this comes with responsibility. So again, I don't think or Facebook responsible And we should be very careful when they say, when they write lies. But we should hold the companies and the decisions of their algorithms. - You talked now about Lenin and we've talked about One of the things you talk about that AI could be used to turn a democracy - Yeah. because it would really of us in a unique way, that captures an entire country. How would that work in your mind? - Again, we don't see reality. We see the information And if you have better technology to cont- to create and to control information, you have a much more powerful Previously, there was how much a central authority could control what people see and think and do. Even if you think about the of the 20th century, like the USSR or Nazi Germany, they everybody all the time. It was technically impossible. Like if you have 200 million around all the time, 24 hours a day, you need about 400 million KGB agents. because even KGB agents, sometimes they need to eat, So 200 million citizens, You don't have 400 million KGB agents. Even if you had, you still because let's say that citizen 24 hours a day. What do they do in the This is like 1940 or 1960, it's paper. They write a paper report. So every day KGB headquarters with 200 million reports where they went, what Somebody needs to analyze They, where do they get the analysts? It's absolutely impossible. Which is why even in the Soviet Union, privacy was still the default. You never knew who is But most of the time nobody And even if they were most likely, the report about you would be archives of the KGB and Now both problems of by AI. To follow all the people of a country 24 hours a day you do not need millions of human agents. You have all these digital the computers, the You can put the whole population and you don't need human analysts to analyze all the information. - What do you make of the has given up on the We all put our pictures and all of these sites. We hear about a security and we go back the next and put our credit card We say that we're very We, we, we love to tell people how anxious we are about the privacy and then we do things that - Because there is immense Part of it is, is despair and people still cherish privacy. And part of the problem is that we haven't seen the consequences yet. - Yet. It's like this huge experiment of human Guinea pigs. But we still haven't seen the consequences of this inhalation of privacy. And it is extremely, extremely dangerous. Again, going back to the of this crisis of freedom of the difference between That there is a big difference of us are sitting alone or if there is an entire Now I'm a very big believer People have a right to That when you talk in private with your family, to be really stupid, to be I would say that even tell homophobic jokes in with their friends, this And it's actually good situation, but they can just relax and say the first stupid thing This should not happen in public. - Now it's gonna be - Yes. And this inability to know what did anything I say go, go viral. So there is no difference. Part of what's happening now of tension between organic animals, we are organic animals, and an inorganic digital system which is increasingly controlling and shaping the entire world. Now part of being an organic by cycles day and night, winter and summer, growth and decay. Sometimes you are active, to relax, you need to rest. Now algorithms, and AIs, and They never need rest. And the big question is or they adapt to us? And more and more of course - Right? - We have to be on all the time. So the news cycle is always on and everything we say, even with friends, it can be public. So the whole of life becomes interview that any stupid party when you are 18, it can 20 years later. And this is destructive You even think about the as I know, it's open Mondays to Fridays, 9:30 Like if on Friday at a new war erupt in the Middle East, the market will react only on Monday. It is still running Now what would happen to And so- What is happening when you can never relax. - We've got some questions I think that are gonna come out here on, on cards, which I wanna ask in just a moment. I have a couple of questions One is, have you talked who runs OpenAI or I know Bill Gates was a big or the folks at Google? What do they say when you and do you trust them as Do you go, &quot;I trust you Sam Altman.&quot; - Most of them are - Afraid of you or afraid of AI? - No, afraid of what, what they are doing. Afraid of what is happening. They understand better than including the destructive potential, of what they are creating. And they are very afraid of it. At the same time, their basic and I'm very concerned about it. Now you have these other They don't have the same kind So it would be very bad for So I must be the one who creates it first. And you can trust me I will at least do my best And everybody was saying it. And I think that to to some extent they, they are genuine about it. There is of course also this another element in, in there and hubris that they are doing basically not just the the history of life. - Do you think they are? If you think about the timeline at least as far as we know it. So you have, basically, two stops. First stop, 4 billion years ago, the first organic life forms And then for 4 billion Like for 4 million years. It's more of the same, So you have amoebas and you have dinosaurs and you have humans, but it's all organic. And then here comes and does the second important of the universe, the beginning Because AI is just at of its evolutionary process. It's basically like 10 We haven't seen anything yet. GPT-4 and all these things. They are the amoebas of, of AI evolution and who knows how the AI dinosaurs But the, the name on the of the universe, if that name is Elon Musk or that name is Sam - We've got a a bunch of and actually one of them before we even got to these. So we'll just go straight to it. We're gonna make a, it's of a question given the you mentioned Netanyahu on point so the question here on the Do you really think that conflict is solvable?&quot; And I thought actually that because it actually touches on that you've raised about humanity. - So on, on one level, absolutely, yes. It's not like one, one of these kind of mathematical problems that that there is no solution to this problem. No, there are solutions to the because it's not a it's not a conflict about land or food or resources that you say, &quot;Okay, there is just not enough food, somebody have to starve to death Or there is not enough be thrown in the sea.&quot; This is not the case. There is enough food and Jordan to feed everybody. There is enough energy, there it's a very crowded place, but technically there is and synagogues and mosques and schools for everybody. So there is no objective shortage. But you have people each in each with their own mass delusion, each with their own fantasy, basically denying either the or the right of the other side to exist. And the war is basically an attempt to make the other side disappear. Like my mind has no space in it. It's not that the land has My mind has no space in So I will try to make them They don't exist in my mind. They also must not exist in reality. And this is on both sides. And again, it's not an objective what is inside the minds of people and therefore there, there Unfortunately, there is no motivation. - What is the solution for someone who grew up there, who's lived there? You're you're not there right now, right? - I'm here right now. - I, again, if you go back, it's a completely workable And you can divide the land and you can divide the resources so that side by side you and you have Israel, and they are both, they both and they both provide and dignity to their - So how, how would, how Because part of the, part of and egg issue here it seems like, where the Israelis or Netanyahu would say, &quot;Look, and we feel completely we can't really even about anything else.&quot; Right? And the Palestinians say the opposite, which is to - to solve our, our our issues here. - The problem is that Each side thinks that to annihilate it. And both are right. - And both are right. - Both are right. - That's a problem if both are right. - This is the problem, yes. The place to start again is basically in to change the minds of other people. The first crucial step is to say these other people, they exist and they have a right to exist. The issue is that both sides that we should exist. Any compromise they, because they are now a bit weak. So they will are willing but deep in their hearts they So that sooner or later when they are stronger, when they have the opportunity, And again, this is correct, and minds of both sides. So the place to start is to, you know, inside first our heads come to recognize that the other side exists That even if someday we'll annihilate them, we shouldn't do it because they have a right to exist. And this is something we - Okay, but lemme ask you a question. I think people in Israel would say that people in Palestine There is a- You don't believe that. You don't, you think that's not the case? - Unfortunately, for a of the citizens of Israel and certainly of the members of the present governing - And you think they - They think... that they feel that the Palestinians want to annihilate them. And do you believe that? - Yes, they, again, they think to annihilate us and they're right, they do want to annihilate us. But also, again I would say, to give you, but a significant and a very significant part of the current ruling coalition in Israel, they want to drive the Palestinians completely from, from the land. Again, maybe they say we are now too weak, so we can't do it. We have to compromise. We But ultimately this is what And then, at least some members of the coalition are And their messianic fantasy, and bigger war. They want to set the because they think that when there'll be hundreds of It'll be very difficult, But in the end, we'll have and there will not be between the - Lemme ask you one other as it relates to this, and segue back into our conversation Politically here in the and there's some very how former President Trump, if he were to become the president, would I think there's a perception for Israel. You may disagree. And what you think Vice President Harris, if she was the president, or good or bad for the - And I, I can't predict but it's very clear that President Trump is undermining the global order. He's in favor of chaos. He's in favor of destroying the liberal global order that we had for the previous couple of decades. And which provided the, with all the difficulties, the most peaceful era in human history. And when you destroy order and you have no alternative, And I don't think that or that chaos is good for the Jews, for the Jewish people. And this is why I think from even from a very very narrow perspective. You know, America is a from the Middle East that withdraws from the world order is not good news for Israel. - So what do you say to the Amer- There are, there are, there who say, and I'm Jewish and I, this is not something that I say, but I hear it constantly. They say, &quot;Trump would Trump would be good for Israel. - In in, in what way? - He would have a, a open checkbook and send military arms and everything that was asked, no asked. - As long as it serves his interests. And if at a particular point to make a deal with Putin or with Iran or with anybody at Israel's - Fair enough - I asked the question Let me ask you, let me ask you this, and this is a great segue we've been having with the last hour, you've written about humans, to pursue power, and knowledge, but power, I think is the big focus, how does the pursuit of - And I, I don't of obsessed only with power. I think that power is a in the human condition. It's a means to achieve various end. It, it's not necessarily bad. It's not that power is always bad. No, it can be used for good, But the deep motivation of of happiness and the per pursuit of truth, which are related to one another. Because you can never really truth about yourself, about your life. Unfortunately, this often happens, the means becomes an end. with power, not with So very often they have immense power and they don't know what to do with it or they do with it very bad things. - This is, this is an interesting one. What are some arguments for and against a future in relationships with other humans and only have relationships with AI? - One thing to, to say about it is that AI is becoming better and better at understanding and therefore of developing relationships and intimate relationships with us. Because there is a deep yearning in human beings to be understood. We always want people to understand us, to understand how we feel. We want my husband, my to understand how I feel. And very often we are disappointed and they don't understand partly because they are too preoccupied with their own feelings AIs will not have this problem. They don't have any feelings of their own. And they can be a 100% on analyzing your feelings. So, you know, in these, all which the robots are and they can't understand it's the complete opposite. Part of the issue we are facing at understanding human emotions and reacting in a way to your personality at that we might become exasperated who don't have this capacity and to react in There is a very big question, and it's a long question, emotions, feelings of their own, whether they become conscious or not. At present, we don't see any sign of it, but even if AIs don't develop any feelings of their own. Once we become emotionally that we will start treating as sentient beings. And we'll confirm, confirm of of persons. You know, in the U.S. there is open for that. Corporations, according to They have rights, they have for instance. Now you When you incorporate a corporation or whatever, up until today, this was to because all the decisions of by human beings, by the executives, the lawyers, the accountants. What happens if you incorporate an AI, it's now a legal person and it It doesn't need any human team to run it. So you start having legal which are not human, and in than us. And they can start going on TaskRabbit and offering their services to various things like writing texts. So they earn money and to the market. They go to Wall Street and And, because they're so intelligent, maybe they make billions. And so you have a situation person in the U.S. is not a human being. And part of their rights is that they have, under to make political contributions. So this AI person - Now lobbyists. I see where this is to some candidate in exchange to AIs. - So there'll be an AI president. I'm hoping you're gonna maybe on a high note here Here's the question, and humans are not always able to Is AI able to think from - I think the answer is yes. But do you think that us think this way? - That's one of the positive they will help us that their immense power will be used not to manipulate us, but to help us. And, again, we have historical Like we have relationships like lawyers, accountants, therapists that know a lot of things about us. Some of like our most by these people, and they to use our private information and their expertise to help us. And this is not, you don't This is already there. And it's obvious that if or if they sell it to a this basically against the law, they can go to prison for that. And we should have the And we talked a lot but obviously AI has otherwise we would not be developing it. It could provide us with the It could prevent most car accidents. It it can also, you know, doctors and teachers and therapists who help us, including, help us understand our own our own emotions better. This can happen decisions in the next few years. Now, I would end maybe by it's not that we lack the what we lack is the This is potentially the revolution in history. And it's moving extremely fast. It's just moving extremely fast. If you think about the U.S. elections, the coming U.S. elections, so whoever wins the elections of the most important to make would be about AIs and AI safety and so forth. And it's not one of the main issues in it's not even clear what is between Republicans and Democrats on AI. So on specific issues, we start seeing differences of freedom of speech and But about the broader it's not clear at all. And again, the, the that we will just rush and without developing to slow down or to stop if necessary. You know, if you think So when they taught me how to drive a car, the first thing I learned That's the first thing I think after you know how to use the to use the fuel pedal, the accelerator. And it's the same when I never learned how to ski, but people who had told me, - the first thing they tell you is how to stop. Or how to fall. It's a bad to kind of, okay, go faster. And then when you are down &quot;Okay, this is how you stop.&quot; And this is what we're doing with AI. Like, you have this chorus of people in places like Silicon Valley. Let's go as fast as we can. If there is a problem down How to stop. It's very, very dangerous. - Yuval, before you go, let me ask you one final, final question, and it's news we could all use, you are writing this whole and you do not carry a - I have a kind of, you because for various services. - How does your whole life work? 'cause - But I don't carry it with me. - I'm told you do not carry a phone. You don't have an email? The whole thing. - No, I have email. - I don't, again, I try to use technology but not to be used by it. And part of the answer who is carrying the smartphone So, it's not so fair to say that I don't, I don't have it. But I think on, a it's, it's a bit like with food was scarce, so people ate whatever they could. And if they found something full of sugar and fat, they ate as because it gave you a lot of energy. And now we are flooded by and junk food, which is and sugar and is creating And most people have realized that more food is not always good for me and that I need to have some kind of diet. And it's exactly the We need an information diet. That previously information was scarce, so we consumed whatever we could find. Now we are flooded by enormous and much of it is junk information, which is artificially filled with hatred and greed and fear. And we basically need to and consume less information and be far more mindful That information is the food for the mind. And, you know, you feed your mind with unhealthy information, It's as simple as that. - Well, we want to thank to your information diet because it's an important future and our world. I wanna thank you for this - Thank you. - Thank you. And Want to dive deeper? Become a big think member and join our members only and unlock full interviews.