Until you make the unconscious conscious. If I want to read your life Call you. Today that's going to completely revolutionize Not just in theory, but in practice. Not just in theory, but in practice. Now imagine for a moment right now, the patterns that you can't that you feel is just out of reached Learning how to unleash your shadow self. See Carl Jung discovered that human beings have four First, You show the world the version of you And then there's the anima or animus, and masculine energies within you, and how you connect with others What if I told you that behind something you've been avoiding the shadow. The part of you that holds all your hidden fears, desires, and untapped potential. This isn't just a dark side It's the key to everything Now we also have a hero within us. Striving to conquer life's But here's what no one ever tells you. True power doesn't come from It comes from understanding and embracing especially the shadow. This is where your true potential lies, In today's video, I'm going to show you not just to understand it, in a way This isn't just another shiny or a clickbaity This is the missing piece that, a whole new level of success Let's get started. So in order to understand shadow work we have to understand the different aspects of mind We have the conscious mind, 5% of it is our whole being. Next we have the subconscious mind. Slightly below this, the conscious mind. That's another 5%. You're aware of it, The remaining is the personal unconscious. The remaining 90% is the personal and the collective unconscious, People around us, the unconscious mind, is very important to understand because it typically reflects any deficits So, for example, what you'll start to notice is where you start to have, congregations very high people in their fields, like you might have dinner with Einstein or, you know, other celebrities And that happens because your unconscious It's just basically Okay. So what most people do is the very, very unaware of what And so they can't And this is where the shadow side that shadow side within our unconscious and we just lose all control of ourselves. And that's something And part of Carl Jung's The goal is individuation, which with each But the hero, the animus anima, Okay, so the shadow plays a very, And for most people, they have a gross What the shadow is, a certain part of ourselves. So the very first thing we have to shifting, which I've taught my over into the version of yourself Okay, like identity shifting, They must become someone else This concept of identity shifting comes in Which finally leads to having. When we be who we were meant to be, we do what we were meant to do, So for a lot of people, because the goals that they're trying I want you to really think about this, like it's And this took me a very long time I was always battling and why this happened was because I So for most people, they are taught to go find a safe job, stand that job and then you will retire That's the narrative I was told. And that was what was stored in my collective unconscious for 99% of people, For 99% of people, going that traditional for 1% sure, for certain individual, That is their dream. That is amazing, wonderful. But for most people it's not. But most people are afraid to own And there's a great quote from a book And Tim Grover says. In order to have what you really want, For me, once I realized this, that was beyond my wildest dreams. So to recap my story back in 2019, that traditional 9 but I took a leap and started where I started making YouTube videos, sharing what I wanted to share, and people And I was very, very afraid to do that old kid, making these videos online, You know, I was like, very timid and shy. and, you know, I was like, who? What gives me the right So it was very, very uncomfortable because I wasn't initially qualified What I didn't know was the engineering And to pursue an engineering job, But this felt like the right thing who I really was sharing my message. You know, having a public persona But I just didn't feel comfortable who I was accustomed to being. I was accustomed to being someone Be safe, protect yourself. Don't take risks. Conserve the little money that you have Just hold on to it. You know, just just be afraid. Be deathly afraid. Anything can happen. Oh, you're going to you know, society's Times a bad protect, protect, And so I had to change to being and becoming Do you understand the difference? Most of you, when you study oh, I am a lazy piece of shit Oh, I'm not confident I am damaged, No you don't. You actually, is who you were meant to be. Okay, that's the only difference. You've got to become who you are meant So when I gave myself permission to own my deficiencies, shortcomings I guess what happened within four years Not only did I make over a million I also found the partner of my dreams, And now we're living in beautiful, We have two houses like my life right now. I couldn't have imagined this. I thought I'd be in a job at this age and, for my first house or something, But now I have more money And I'm not saying this to brag. I'm just saying this is truly when you allow yourself Like the goal that I set for myself was just barely making 20 K a month, And anything that I ever imagined Why is this possible? It's only possible when you truly own I know I'm saying this a lot of times, I can't say this enough It'll go in through one ear They'll never truly like, internalize They'll never truly give themselves be. You have to give yourself permission So at first, when you're being who you are meant to be, Because at first it feels fake. At first it will feel fake. It will feel unnatural for you to be who you are meant to be, but It will feel uncomfortable, but That's The other way that you know if you feel less drained for most people, they get this thing They get persona fatigue. Why does this happen? Well, this happens simply due someone you're not. You're trying to embody Your shadow side is suppressed. It's not finding expression. And by the third part of this video, how to unleash the shadow side, change everything for you. How you experience You're going to experience you've never experienced, but for now, who you're truly meant to be, When you become who you are meant to be, to be in that state of being. If you feel like you are drained around whatever it is, it's because you're You're trying to put on a facade. You're trying to put on a face. You're trying to keep up with the Joneses. And that's exactly It's as simple as that. So the key I want you to take away from to unleashing your shadow self, you were meant to be What I mean by that, that you think and feel and believe, If you what you think is true will hurt Don't be afraid to live your truth. Don't be afraid to express your truth And I'm not saying But for example, if you've been someone and you've been you've been a yes man, what you truly feel is authentic, You got to say it because guess what? The other person might not like it, They will respect you a lot more than if People, please. So sometimes when you feel like, hey, go ahead and say it. Go ahead and express your opinion because the more you keep things It gets repressed Then it starts to act out in ways In psycho somatic ailments. through this psychological pressure just going to create Okay? And that's something we don't want. So the very first step is to stop Any form of self judgment. Allow yourself to be who you really are. If you have a negative thought, in this personal development journey, How absurd is that? You're afraid of this negative You don't have to feed it. You can simply observe it and let it be as it is without trying to change it. Don't try to focus on positives Allow yourself to have negative thoughts. Allow yourself to have negative feelings. You are allowed to think, feel It's not. You don't have to bother with it because And that's the crucial part of you is accepting Just be as you are and drop that armor, which very, of this process learning to become vulnerable Let's get to that right This is one of the most important words And the reason why that is, is because that I'm being authentic and I'm And what happened was back I lived in the UK and I got bullied because And, I was kind of just, you know, I was just straight up calling them idiots And so, you know, And so then over time, that was kind of a people pleaser I just became who people wanted to. Wanted me to be. Okay. I became the charming kind of version have women like me That's what I strive to be my whole life. So that I could fit in That's that's literally it. And so because of that, I always had a tough time but I always had a desire But the reason I couldn't was because And here's why. Here's the fucked up reason why. It's because I had a tough time because I was afraid they would find out who I truly am, Right? And if they found out that I was a fraud, and I would go back to that old way And that actually had trickle down I had a tough time letting my wife in because I had to give off this image so that I could be the leader of this, instead of allowing myself And by the way, I learned this from Brene Brown from If you read it, for men, for women, the greatest source of shame Right? Like, not looking good for women. They have to be superwoman, smoking hot while doing it, right, and for men, the one thing they can't do Don't be a weak man. You got to man up, you know, and sack up. Right. There's always that saying. But because I had that ingrained I had to be a strong man. Otherwise, I would let my family down, Let my kid down and everyone down. And then when I realized the negative consequences, it had, of me we would constantly have fights, This came to like, There was always a communication issue. and by the way, in relationships, Woman. Like, if a man is feeling a certain way, she's more intuitive. but going even deeper into that, sense what the man is feeling they're not being vulnerable. They don't feel safe in the relationship, They feel uncertain, So when you become vulnerable, for both people in the relationship. Okay. So when I started doing that, actually became a lot more fulfilling. and I started to notice My wife became a great source of power Okay. And so the quality of my life not just to mention, area of my life, You know, my, I actually became Fun fact, And, you know, she was like, Like, I just didn't have a girlfriend. I started my business in 2019 and then with her, I saw this business, And so this kind of like she balances me somehow. But I never really utilized this until my, your wife is actually a great source You have this, like, great, immense source of power that you're You're afraid And, because you have to you believe And, it's actually being a hamper. It's it's blocking you from getting So for me, learning about vulnerability But what we don't understand because we mistake two So what happens is for most people who are in shame, I'm a bad person. So Brene Brown, in her book gives this example of, a woman. Gets drunk Thursday night. Friday morning. She has a big meeting. She goes in hungover. She's late. Kline meeting She says, I'm That's shame. And the second situation she says, oh, I can't believe I did this. I can't believe I could do something It's tied to her behavior. I did something stupid. Not I am stupid, I am stupid is shame. Shame is something that brings us So if you look at this shame is much lower than guilt. I believe, you know, I might but from what I understand, And in shame we actually lead Like shame is apparently directly When people are in shame, Whereas in guilt you have power In shame you are stuck. When you feel shame you are identifying Guess what? In this being doing, having. If we go back to this. You're basically saying I am stupid. So if you identified you're going to do stupid things but then if you just stop it right here I'm not stupid. I made a mistake. I did something stupid. So your identity, It doesn't. So in order for us we have to learn to dis identify Because once you identify you immediately You immediately Okay, so the goal isn't to just dis identify, If you consciously identify with someone Well, no one consciously chooses It happens unconsciously. You keep telling yourself the story, whereas most of the time So if I want to create the version of me what I'm choosing to identify with Okay, so when I choose to identify the authentic quasi that I was meant to be I'm an idiot. That's when you start to live a life So the goal is to create And so when we get to this third part, to unleash your shadow self, this is why So let's get to that right now. But before I get to that real quick, that our Reality Creator Academy, a lot of but we typically close it. But temporary. Lee, I have opened up the gates to it Creator economy, aka There's a video in there If it resonates with you, To learn more about everything you can just go to this link. And I would love to see you Well, just going to leave it open So I will see you in there. And, let's get right to part three, Learning to unleash your shadow self. so now we get to the fun part. Something that's going to change your life An exercise Unleashing your shadow self. So the exercise is to create the shadow or rather to discover the shadow Because remember Getting to a point where we feel stable, I like to tell my clients, You're not holding onto pains You're not trying to suppress and hide, But you stand naked and you're comfortable being as you are. You have nothing to hide, okay? You just are. You're not afraid of being seen anymore. So in order to do this, all you have to do because this is going to be an exercise something that's going to develop So get, your phone, get the notes section and create, depending on who goes to your phone, Okay? Shadow character, And what you want to do attitudes and actions behaviors. And we want to list five for each. So what kind of characteristics does You want to observe it. And when you observe it, how you will know you're scared. You know, you're kind of scared It might seem like, I've never seen this part of myself I've always hid it under the surface. I never wanted people What is the part of you Don't be ashamed of it. That's the nasty, evil part that you have to bring to the surface You don't have to show people right now, We want to bring it to awareness. So you're going to list and a few attitudes the shadow has. So if you are naturally and you like to compare everyone That is the attitude that it has. What kind of behaviors does it do? What kind of behaviors or actions Bring those to light right now, and guess what? Shame can never thrive If you feel ashamed about something, is in suppression. But if you bring it to light, it can no longer thrive. So this is why this exercise we're doing Okay. So go ahead and create this document And chances are you're going to discover Because now you've made the intention It's going to pop up. You're going to start having different You're going to start noticing It is just going to happen. If you have to revisit this video, do so. Okay, now for me, my shadow and what I notice is when I try or when I get too consumed in it, Okay, I kind of want to quit everything And, you know, I just I look at everything as a game. And when I become this kind of shadow I get so identified either too obsessed which are both an issue. I notice So because I'm so competitive, You know, for example, if I saw someone who's or someone who is a student of mine it would hurt me a lot And that's because it's this shadow self this as a game and looks at the numbers, But on the other hand, but I lose that competition and I'm like, what's the point of doing Nothing is moving forward. I don't see And when that happens, I'm like, This isn't fun anymore. I'm not playing a fun game anymore. So for me, it leads to suppression of this Also the shadow self. overtakes a little too much. And the other selves, the ego, the, the, and also or the anima, So the important part is we have a balance So that we have a balance or individuation. Now, the other thing I noticed earlier of your shadow self being suppressed If you are moving around, if you're a, I remember in from April to June of this in the business, you know, employee ship hitting the fan, And it was kind of the worst And I became very, And I would wake up at like 3 or 4 a.m. with a pit of anxiety in my stomach. And I was like, what the fuck's going Like I don't know what's going on. Like, I don't know I just want to keep checking my email, things don't go too wrong, etc., right? And so I would be very, And I realized This character When we become anxious and our shadow side We're just trying to protect, At those moments, So when I started working with this coach rather than defense mode, what happened And so my coach asked me, What would quasi shadow So you could even give your shadow So I would actually encourage that, and so he would ask, What quasi shadow wouldn't give a fuck? Business is hitting the fan. Great. Go and you know, you know, shoot the shit with your family. Quasi shadow doesn't give a fuck It doesn't worry about stupid shit. And when I started to tap into more and more offense mode, which is a direct where you get into this state of anxiety You're becoming more gas break So that's one of the keys Be oil, gas or or breaks, not gas. And the break you don't hit the gas You either hit the gas or the break. So know when to do what and whatever it is you do, So in a way, Go all in on one Okay? And for the next two weeks, Observe this shadow part of you. What characteristics come up? Most people don't really understand what the shadow self is, nor do You have to become very. You have to become hyper aware. Just observe your patterns. One of the things one of the things you're and put push down to the surface That is your shadow. Go all in. Go put the gas on instead of gas or break. And so what I want you to do right now is click here to watch the original video I think it's gotten over 700,000 views. clients, people, viewers, subscribers I go deeper into the letting which allows you to surrender which is going to unlock avenues So go ahead and click on this and I will Thanks.