Back in the 19th century, if you needed a When doctors tried to remove one person's it was a success. But sometimes the blood would clump together, And this is the kind of procedure you want It wasn't until the early 1900s that this a system of categorizing blood types -- the heard of. Dr. Landsteiner traced transfusion complications...namely, antibodies. Understanding this has made blood transfusions And using this information today, plus a century a method to advance blood transfusions success blood to the universal donor type. Antibodies are proteins produced by the immune if needed, destroy an antigen, which is anything A lot of the time, antigens are viral or bacterial Usually your immune system will recognize with antibodies and get rid of in the future. But other times these antigens are produced our immune system will leave alone. The whole ABO blood system is built upon on antibodies. And the type of blood you have tells you which about: of the red blood cells and B antibodies in Type B reverses this, B antigens on the outside around. People with AB blood have both A and B antigens, O blood has no antigens, but have A and B For the most part everyone in the world has And it's these combinations that create noticed. Basically if your blood has A antigens and your body will see them as foreign invaders These attacks can cause clumps of red blood If these clumps get too large, blood clots So, when you receive blood it has to match the universal donor type. Wait, but what about those positive and negative Great question! That positive or negative symbol that comes called the Rhesus Blood Group System. Rhesus blood grouping is similar to the ABO or absence of an antigen on the outside of Rh antigen. This becomes important again when it comes blood will reject Rh positive blood. Now, the big question is why is our blood Well, this question takes us down two different First off, we don't know why we evolved In the age of transfusions, it would be a but somewhere along the way, it was in the different blood types. Many experts hypothesize that they developed happened millions of years ago, it remains But even though we don't know a hundred we know much more about its heritability, It all comes down to our genes. The genetic information your parents pass color your hair is, how susceptible you are This is the same for blood type and it all different versions, or alleles: A, B and O. they each got one from their parents and passed This all comes together and gets encoded in will use to make our blood. If you're curious, here's a handy chart create certain blood types. When new blood is made, our DNA will instruct antigens, both or none depending on the inherited So, if you're unhappy with the blood type But here's what's so cool! We're getting closer to technology that entirely. Scientists recently discovered that enzymes strip away the sugar-based antigens on the That would effectively change type A or B donor type since it can be given to A, B, Hello, my name is Peter Rahfed, I'm a postdoc I'm working in the lab of Stephen G Withers to find new enzymes capable of converting And they have succeeded at finding an enzyme to convert blood. But of course, it's more complicated than That there are enzymes available which can You can think, okay we can find the right convert A or B into O, that's the general The big question for us was where could we Because they are not everywhere. IN the human gut, there are so called, mucins, And they're there to protect you. But at the same time, our microbiome, like live together with us, and learned to stick use them for their own nutrition. And interestingly, on those mucins there are red blood cells. So the idea is in our gut, there are already to cleave those kinds of structures we're But it's not as simple as taking this bacteria's Peter's team isolated the DNA from the bacteria the sugars off the mucins and put that DNA Now, this new lab bacteria produces the enzymes the red blood cells, which will create O type Then what we can do is we can draw blood, incubate it with the enzyme, leave it for and then those red blood cells are modified. Making more O blood will be huge, since more with less complications. In just over 100 years we've come a long That is, until we can just make synthetic not quite there yet. Did you know the first human blood transfusions In the late 1660s, French physician Jean-Baptiste calf on his patients. The first recipient did survive, but subsequent to be banned for over a hundred years...at Probably not a bad idea. Thanks for watching this episode of Seeker next time on Seeker.