Have you ever wondered what it's like inside a we'll be exploring all the sleek and stylish has a range of 3,000 miles, top speed of 540 mph, show you what makes this jet so phenomenal! gentle curves and sculpted lines that make fast just sitting still! Embraer crafted through the skies for maximum speed and range. charm with glassy smooth skin formed beauty in the engineering too - the Phenom's Twin jet engines from Pratt &amp; raked wingtips do their part to optimize Even practical elements shine door reveals clever use of space for bags One walk around this Phenom 300E makes for phenomenal performance with undeniable curb Welcome to the command center of this ultra-modern the abundance of technology is evident. the dashboard, providing pilots with flight State-of-the-art avionics from Garmin and satellite weather and navigation This glass cockpit automates many complex to be flown single-pilot. For owners who the spacious cockpit provides Redundant safety is paramount aboard the Phenom and air supplies are doubled up, providing system to aid pilot breathing in emergencies. the pilots for a refined look. But functionality for easy access and minimal fatigue. remain hidden away behind panels! of cutting-edge performance and safety, how walk back through the privacy divider this jet - the executive traveler's cabin. for reliability, comfort and style. But it's an ultra-luxury private jet. With accents from galleys to lavatories, the Welcome aboard this gorgeous jet cabin! As we the Phenom's luxury really shines through. comfort, even for taller passengers with long no cramped aluminum tube! With generous first-class seating or even a high-end office. They incorporate some very clever experience. Attentive engineering makes For one, the seats swivel, allowing easy discrete personal spaces, circle up the chairs - a private room in the skies! With versatile Innovation continues through the chairs' the touch a button for snoozing, yet still remain footrests, pop-out tables, and even integrated You'll also find plenty charging ports and unique enhance relaxation or focus. Like a luxury lounge, tastes looking to travel in total comfort. 300E offers exclusive dual club seating. With this creates an exclusive space for families installation spaces allow for customization or private dinners at 40,000 feet! technology, which really sets it apart from other combine with superior noise insulation for comfort Even during pockets of turbulence, the in the background to steady any bumps. If occasionally flick on, you may not even realize Between the premium materials, the Phenom 300E cabin surrounds owners in extreme it working, relaxing or chatting over a meal. by a catered dinner with friends at 45,000 feet Embraer empowers private jet owners with Even the galley and bathroom aboard the for passengers. Let's take a look at the What was once an unused space has now been zone. Here the Phenom 300E brings five-star A sleek granite countertop houses a inset sink, - everything needed for in-flight catering. The beverages and food. Or use it to store personal Accenting LED lights allow passengers to see Whether it's fluorescent white for a business the galley adapts to your flight needs. permit hot meals to be prepared and served a five-course dining experience, your onboard Now let's head just across the aisle to Boasting a spacious rectangular design, tight circular enclosures in many first-class facilities in a private jet! cleanliness, while granite vanity counters and There's also useful amenities like shelves, towel The bathroom's size allows for easy movement mirror and toilet allows it Between the amenity-filled galley and ingeniously the mold for traditional private jet bathrooms. adds those special touches to make passengers feel And that concludes our walkthrough of Embraer's the sleek exterior, tricked-out cockpit, and flyers choose this plane. What stuck out to you like and subscribe if you want to see more videos