Translator: Phuong Cao My story starts in Moscow. I was 15 years old. My best friend and I, we were part visiting the Soviet Union. This was in 1987, a few years before the fall We were given an official tour guide And the tour would start in the morning, and we were checked in My friend said to me, I thought it was a great idea. Dumb idea. So we grabbed our coats, and we snuck out We found the entrance to the metro. The Moscow underground transportation The ride down the escalator Once we were down there, and I pulled him back and said, &quot;Wait! Let's write down the name of the station So I had a notepad, and I took a notepad, and I wrote down and we hopped down the train And that was fun because - Well, actually, it was weird. There were a lot of people, They were all dressed and it looked very, very different But the stations were lovely. There were stations with statues, and glass displays. It was really like museums. We would never have expected that. And everything was perfectly clean. Well, what was weird though is that the people - and everyone seemed to be looking at us So after about 20-30 minutes, we'd had enough I showed my note to someone Then over there, I showed my note and they directed us to the other way. And then a third person That was a little confusing. Aw, then I saw it. Over the stairs, the sign. It turned out I had written down (Laughter) So we headed upstairs and we found a taxi. That was great. And we told the driver, and then he was willing to take us. And I remember sitting And he looked at me and he said, (Russian) No, dollar! (Laughter) Fifty dollars? That was like I don't know That was not an option for us. So we had to get out of the taxi, and he drove away, It was a cold night, and you know everything and we were teenagers, and we were pretty nervous, Well, we started walking. We walked to the end of the block. We turned the corner. And 200 yards in front of us, (Laughter) Well, this experience The first is that anytime after this trip I was just cringe. (Laughter) And the second one is that of understanding the local language And it actually led to me learning over the following years. Now, before I go on, Can we have a little bit of light I'd just like to know who's - By a show of hands, It must be 99%. (Laughter) Anyone who doesn't speak (Laughter) Alright, so I can assume all of you have, you know, gone through Anybody who speaks Wow, that's maybe 70%. Four or more languages, anyone? That's still quite a bit. Anyone speak five or more languages? Wow, come see me during the break. (Laughter) To me, learning a language is... For me, it's like a deck of playing cards As you start learning and understanding, Now there's no standard way But as you learn, And the first one would be you reach like a basic level. At this level, you have a base and you're able to have and communicate a little bit. And your study goes on until you reach what we call being fluent in the language. Now what does it mean, It means that you've turned up and that is the point where you have - where the language so that even if you don't use it anymore you will not forget it. You can get back into it So this is a level where you're and comfortable Now, some people go on By that time, you know classic literature and have maybe in-depth knowledge That's often the point taken in academia. For me, when I learned I had a head start because I was born to a German-speaking Now, when I was a baby, that what my parents were speaking to me But by the time I was two years old, Women speak only German. (Laughter) Men only speak English. (Laughter) Imagine the fun my parents had (Laughter) Being a bilingual was actually pretty It definitely helped. If you're - But it also gave me something else. It gave me two identities and the ability When you're a native speaker then your personality, your humor, they change as you switch languages. This can have huge advantages. I mean, some studies have shown or even a higher resistance But what I'm almost interested in is that it's actually given me When you're a native speaker, then you feel at home and also native speakers Now is this only relevant And that's the big question. But wouldn't it be cool if a person learning a foreign language and actually enjoy the social benefits that go beyond communication skills? Well, that's what happened to me. I was able to do that, and I want to show you from my experience So if we say this green area here the first thing to note is there is not really any shortcut. There are some methods that you can use where you identify 20% There are some apps, that increase vocabulary retention. They save a little time, but in the end, there's no way around until you reach the fluency level. But the second thing to note is that going from fluency to mastery and it requires That's why most people - They know how to speak and they don't even attempt to venture on, and I can understand it. But the good news is, to get the benefits of a native speaker, you don't have to go through mastery In fact, you can skip So if you think about it, there are many native speakers of specialized fields So, that's not really what is required. So how do you do it? What is required? Well, I want to give you three areas to focus on when you're learning The first is: work I'm aware I said eliminating. It should be at least minimizing it. This is, in my opinion, of language learning today, but it's also the most important one to reach what I call a native-speaker If you communicate without an accent this changes how natives behave and it also gives you an ability The best way that I've found - the best exercise I've found is what I call the What you do is you find and you take a book you open it at a random page, and you read the first sentence. Then, you ask a native speaker to rate you on obvious accent, Then the native speaker You have to listen carefully And you repeat this process over and over that he can no longer hear an accent Now, I realize it can take even just to get one sentence right. But I promise you if you are persistent, you'll be amazed The second area to focus on is using verbs Now, we all know the situation Like, in the US, you use &quot;stand in line.&quot; In the UK, you &quot;queue.&quot; That's all good. But sometimes, the speech is so different that the books are almost useless I want to give you an example. In the French language, which is &quot;my work.&quot; A French person talking to his friend which is a completely different word. The same for &quot;the clothes,&quot; but you'll hear &quot;le fringues.&quot; Or money is &quot;l'argent,&quot; but people say &quot;le fric,&quot; &quot;le sou,&quot; So, obviously I'm only scratching But here you actually have to learn all And of course, you have to interact But after you reach a critical mass it'll actually be easier You'll just pick it up in one go, who hear words or expressions The third area to work on What do I mean by that? So let me ask you: what does this gesture mean to you? Any Italians here? (Laughter) OK, now, depending this could mean something rude, or it could just mean like, &quot;Why did you do that?&quot; Or, &quot;How could you?&quot; Or it could just be Interesting! In the Middle East, this is just a standard way So these kind of traits and sometimes, they're hard to spot, and it takes a lot of active listening. I want to give you a few more examples. So imagine I am with three of my friends: And, like, we're walking and maybe and his initial reaction might be, &quot;Ouch!&quot; That's how you say it in English. But the German that, you know, he would say, &quot;Ow-ah!&quot; (Laughter) And the French person (Laughter) So this, of course, this is something you and it has to become part of you. If... Again I'm with these three friends, and let's say I serve them tea, and I ask the American, And if he answers in the affirmative, And I can ask the German, He'll say, ''Mm- hmm!'' And then I ask the Frenchman, He'll say, &quot;Hmm!&quot; (Laughter) So these difference, So all of these three things which is pronunciation, and colloquial speech they all require that you interact Ideally, you should Now if you have the chance to live abroad Or maybe live among natives Perhaps just have a romantic relationship, or even just spend time, So, romantic relationships, (Laughter) That works really well for these things. But yeah - So this will be different But even when you're not around natives, Because what you can do you can mimic the characters, you can write down anything and practice that. I also want to encourage you Songs are really great And they not only help your but if they're emotional, they can anchor these expressions And it's like speaking all day and really It's a great way. So music, definitely. The other thing you need is the right mindset, and a belief that express yourself like a native, talk like a native and act like a native, you'll actually achieve So if I could only leave you it would be: work on your pronunciation. Because pronunciation helps any stage of the learning process, even in the very beginning. It'll speed up everything. And it also is the key or almost-native-speaker status. So before I go, I'd like to tell you how I was able to It was a very, very elegant solution. I married a Russian girl. (Laughter) And I now have little kids in my home (Laughter) So I want to thank you. (Applause) And before I go, I just want to wish you (Spanish) A lot of success (French) It was a pleasure (Hebrew) I wish you lots of success (Yiddish) Thank you for listening. Good luck to you all and... (Russian) Thank you. (Applause)