Translator: Tanya Cushman Take a few moments to think about those organs that you cannot live without. Okay, got them? Excellent. You probably thought about your heart. I bet &quot;brain&quot; popped into your mind. Lungs. But did any of you think, &quot;My pancreas, I'm assuming most of you probably didn't. I'm a naturopathic doctor, and I love educating people which is located right here, behind your left lower rib cage. Inside your pancreas called beta cells. You only have two grams actually; it's the size of, like, two almonds. Well, these life-giving cells yet if they were to wither away, in the absence of medical intervention, you would literally die That is how important your beta cells are; you would die. Here's how they work: Anytime you eat sugar that sugar circulates in your blood throughout your body. The beta cells are and as soon as they see they send the alarm bells off. They call in a team of dump trucks Well, the dump trucks are called insulin, and insulin's job is to pick up and feed it to your liver, because you don't want all that This seems pretty innocent, right? But here's the problem: Millions and millions today Overworking your beta cells doesn't happen [only] with obvious foods, but it also happens with like yogurt and granola, cereal, bread, pasta, alcohol - even when used in moderation. Anytime you eat these foods, your beta cells send the alarm bells off to make more insulin. And this is scary because - just like anything that gets overused, the parts eventually wear out, leading to beta cell burnout. This is another name which you really Beta cell burnout can happen to anyone, and it has a lot to do As your beta cells weaken the blood sugar level starts to rise maybe even unbeknownst to you. If the beta cells get really weak, your diet doesn't change - you'll likely need every day for the rest But the good news, the good news is reversing Just with a few small dietary tweaks especially when caught early. I specialize in diabetes. I also am an expert because when I was just seven years old. So the effects of sugar Now, the cause of type 1 is very different that we're hearing so much about. In type 1, the immune system Killed them - they're gone. When I was seven. Why it did this is still not understood. But as a result, without my beta cells and I've taken over 100,000 Living with type 1, in a way, because I'm so motivated not to eat sugar. When I eat sugar, my blood sugar level I get a headache, I feel cranky - if the phone rings, I don't want and I just want to take a nap. Most people walk around oblivious between what you've eaten so the negative effects on all of you you're lucky enough to still have them - is much more subtle, The good news is saving your beta cells You know, this talk wouldn't when sugar wasn't added and it was just used Are you aware that there that own the entire world's food brands? And the reality is the sweeter So when you eat sugar, you might immediately feel think &quot;Wow, sugar makes me feel great!&quot; But the reality is an hour or two later, if you pay attention, you'll likely feel zapped. You might not be able to concentrate; you might kind of want to take a nap; or you might want to eat more sugar. If we keep doing this over a lifetime, the beta cells get weak, the blood sugar level and over time, high-blood sugar strokes, gangrene, blindness, alzheimer's, lower-limb amputation, depression, The amount of deaths called by sugar - all of these afflictions combined - leads to more deaths Imagine that. At the rate we're consuming sugar today, sugar is not a treat. Ladies and gentlemen, sugar has become a gradual death sentence. But the good news is, like I said, this is something, a major problem, My patient Pam, she was just freaking out; she thought She said, &quot;I'm just tired all the time. I feel good in the morning, but then I drag, and I Something is wrong with me. Will you check my thyroid? Is that why I can't think?&quot; I said, &quot;Pam ... before we run all those expensive tests, I just want to ask you, And she said, &quot;Well, get a few extra pumps and then I have some zucchini bread.&quot; I said, &quot;Well, okay, Vanilla is syrup - it's not the vanilla bean, it's the syrup, lots of sugar, and zucchini bread - I mean let's be real, okay? Zucchini muffin, whatever. It's all cake - muffins - So I said, &quot;Before I run why don't you just start Let's just have a handful maybe some sliced apples When you start your day I think your energy just saying.&quot; Two weeks later, I get an email &quot;Nothing's wrong with me. I feel great. I'm having protein for breakfast, 'What have you done? Changing your life can be this simple; it doesn't have to be overwhelming. But I get it. It's so easy to fall into the traps laid by the 1.5 trillion dollar They label so many Gummy vitamins - right? - let's not be ... come on. Yogurts - many yogurts today, they have more sugar, ounce for ounce, than Coca-Cola. Kids are eating fruit chews today. Kids, are you aware they're not fruit? They're not fruit; There was this study done in rats creates as much damage to the brain as abuse done in childhood. Teens are drinking less soda today, but they've replaced it These drinks are shamefully yet they are a key part that's spreading today. And, all of you parents out there the birthday parties, right? The six-years-olds, and now they're running around This behavior is a direct result This happens in schools every day, and the sad thing pasta and beer ... pizza and beer, pasta and bread. It's the same effect. According to there are over 420 million people and that number just keeps going up. In America alone, if our eating habits that will be one in three. That means it will likely be or it might be you. We have all become so brainwashed to think that sugar Frankly, it's reminiscent of Remember that? The posters of the athletes Listen to this - this makes me so angry: I volunteer at diabetes camps, so I see kids and what they eat and the standard recommendations given to children diagnosed is that they can eat and just take more insulin for it. The blood-sugar fluctuations to their precious, growing bodies And it is devastating We need to eat less sugar. Now, I've got to admit I love cookies, so I'm not talking Let's be real here, right? When I work with patients, 80% of the time, keep your food and then put your sugar in the 20% - put it over here. The highly-processed carb foods? 20% - over here. But we've got it switched, right? We're kind of like Ahhh. Our future depends on a healthy society. Your contribution is needed Sugar is never going And sugar is never going Look at Pam. So I ask you this: Would you like to have more energy? Would you like to have less anxiety? A better memory? More productivity? Better skin? Better sleep? More joy? Reducing sugar and highly-processed could change your life. I see it every day with patients Now, you might be feeling resistant, like, &quot;Oh, just overwhelmed. Just like making a big change, Or you've tried it before, Have no fear; I have you covered. Because when you want you have to start with just small steps. That's all you need. So I've got you covered. I have three steps you can apply them today. If you're feeling really motivated, try all three. Number one: [HAVE PROTEIN FOR BREAKFAST ...] [eggs, nuts, cottage cheese, Start your day with Then you're giving your body Trust me, you don't want to be like this - I do it a lot. I do my best to avoid it but ... Have protein for breakfast. Number two: Next time you're feeling you just had a meal but now you're like, &quot;I want something more you want a sugary snack. Grab a glass of water first. Being dehydrated actually And so why don't you try water first? You'll probably feel more energized because a 5% decrease in hydration So you'll have more energy, and you probably that will only pop you up Okay, number three: There are so many wonderful low-carb Pizza crust that's made pasta can be made out of zucchini noodles; and - I love cookies - out of almond flour There's so many great ones out there. In conclusion, what I want if it isn't already obvious, reducing sugar in your diet Life-changing. Please, you have beta cells; protect them. You have the knowledge, And if you reduce the sugar in your diet, you'll be using your meals to fuel you into greatness. Thank you. (Applause)