Who's blowing stuff up? I'm Mr. Beat, States spends more money on its military...BY In fact, 40% of all military spending around It spends more money on its military And it's been this way for a Since World War Two, the United on its military. Even after the United States was like, "let's just keep In fact, let's spend MORE. On March 28, 2022, President Joe Biden asked and Congress was like "what the heck?!? That's wayyyy too much money! We can't Nah, just kidding, Congress not only but it gave President Biden an extra (turns) To put that in perspective, $45 billion end homelessness in the United States. asked for $842 billion in military spending, and And that's because military spending is one meaning...both Republicans and Democrats massive spending, despite one Americans say the United States So why DOES the United States First of all, because the United The American military controls around 750 military It has troops in as many as 150 countries. Some bases might surprise you. For example, did you did you know it has 120 bases in Japan alone? tens of billions of dollars maintaining JUST of all these countries where there's American they're getting extra security with an American as documented in this classic book, many of the local residents DON'T want Regardless, for at least 75 years, most of the fact that the United States is often the world's to put out all the fires in the world. Not make it obligated to step for the defense Others argue that a huge American military or "defeat authoritarianism" around the world. American government is, in reality, often democracy around the world through its military is needed to counter the growing military threat many argue that the growing military threat and American military interventionism However, there's another, much more nefarious, so much gosh darn money on its military, Because data protection is so important to me, I'm a VPN fanatic. I'm obsessed with VPNs. I them... EVEN WHEN I'M AWAKE. So yeah, boy AdGuard VPN has been around for more than so I must be memorable, emotional, inciting to let's do this! (emotionally Its built-in ad blocking function doesn't allows you to block malicious trackers. 1,000 servers in more than 65 locations around which means you can turn it AdGuard offers a 75% discount for a 2-year but my viewers can get an 83% discount by is automatically attached to the link in the by the way.That's only $48.92 (back to being calm) Thanks to Ok, so what IS the military industrial complex? The military industrial complex describes industry all work together since they represented by this iron triangle. Oh, uh, Yes, yes. Wait no...no. Oops, I meant to say iron mutually supportive relationships executive branch and special So here's the military industrial complex iron Up here representing the legislative who provides the funding for military representing the executive branch, is the itself and the part of the iron triangle that representing the special interest groups or the military contractors, the corporations like Remember, we all respond to The military industrial complex is an example or a situation in which people who are supposed let their own personal incentives guide their example, if a politician makes a lot of money against any bill that potentially hurts the Let's look at the incentives in the military incentivised by campaign contributions from the spending more money on the military usually means not due to voter support....hahahahaha....but funding their re-election campaigns. They also are in the districts or states they represent. They districts or states they represent. The military itself, but also for political support. Many jobs in the defense industry after they retire. industry often find themselves becoming lawmakers. the revolving door. And finally, the defense As I hinted at earlier, military often occur in countries around the It's just that the United States, uh, It was in the United States, after all, that became widely used after President his Farewell Address on . Not only did he This conjunction of an immense military is new in the American experience. The total felt in every city, every statehouse, every imperative need for this development. Yet we must Our toil, resources and livelihood are all society. In the councils of government, of unwarranted influence, whether sought or The potential for the disastrous rise of Now, keep in mind that while Eisenhower WARNED he also thought that building up a Also, remember that military spending ain't just paying the salaries of and providing services their families, and those who work with them. So why should YOU care about the not are about Pokemon instead? (turns) Well, while the military industrial complex billions of dollars in revenue, it also has led and the use of military force over arguably healthcare, and infrastructure. While the national security, it also threatens the more weapons are out there, and the more weapons are used, and the more Alright, let's stop sugarcoating this. The incentives for war. As long as people war will continue to happen, and the military profit greatly from war. If you pay attention that produce weapons are often the biggest Originally, Eisenhower called the military CONGRESSIONAL complex, but he apparently giving his speech to not make anyone in But here's the thing. Ultimately, if we want it's up to Congress to do just that. (turns) could literally make laws that limit corporate But why would they do that? Why would do it because YOU (pointing it because guess what? YOU are the and you can fire them if they don't do what you Anyway, uh yeah. So that's the [Music] So what do YOU think? Is the military industrial don't mind. Also, if you want to learn more about Blowback, that book I mentioned earlier, but also ago but surprisingly, and depressingly,