(dramatic music) (computer beeping) (tense music) - [Joshua] Good morning. - [Students] Morning. - Bushido, the way It was a code of honor that guided these The samurai knew that and defining moment when faced with (student scoffs) To stand in the face of death, unafraid and unflinching, not seeking death, was the fulfillment of a (tense music continues) (students laughing) - Dude, that is so cool. - Yeah. Cool. And Stuart? - Yes, sir. - It's Professor Dude. (upbeat music) (computer beeping) - Oh yes, it's so Everyone has been - Yeah, the Brazilians What time is your speech - At 10 o'clock And after that I'm visiting right here in Rio and... (tense music) (tires squealing) - U.S. Secret Service. This is a secured area! Hey, no one is authorized (gun roaring) (agents groaning) (tense music continues) - How's mother? - She still wants to but other than that, she's fine. Tell me, how is it that - She always thought I (tense music continues) - I'm sorry. You're not - Sorry. No, speak English. (elevator dings) - [Agent] What the... (gun roaring) - We're in position. Proceed to secure. - Go to the beach? Honey, have you seen to the beach down here? I love you too. (tense music continues) What is it? Oh God. (phone ringing) - Yes, sir? I'm on my way. (tense music continues) - [Advisor] The terrorists the People's Liberation Army. - They're demanding $100 million and enough high-tech weaponry to overthrow the Completely destabilize - I don't give a damn - Sir, they've already There's no doubt- does not negotiate - But sir, it's your wife. - I'm well aware of that, thank you. (tense music continues) (gentle music) (gentle music continues) (gentle music continues) - When? - Immediately. (tense music) - I hope your that we are willing - Well, if that But if you think my and your gang of you'd better think again. - Well, if he doesn't, you're dead. (dramatic music) (jet roaring) (computer beeping) - [Control] Approximately five (jet roaring) (button beeps) (button beeps) (jet roaring) (dramatic music continues) - [Pilot] Good luck, sir. (button beeps) (jet roaring) (tense music) (wind whooshing) (tense music continues) (tense music continues) (tense music continues) (knife thuds) (gun roaring) - The roof. Check it out. If I hear one more shot, you're dead. (tense music continues) (thugs speaking in Spanish) - There he is! Get him! (guns roaring) (glass tinkling) (knife thuds) - Who are you? - Room service. (tense music continues) (people grunting) (First Lady gasps) - I don't know who you are, but you certainly know Oh my God. You're hurt. - I'm okay. Can you swim, ma'am? - Yes. Yes. Why? - Good. (tense music continues) - What are you doing? - Put your arms around my neck. - [First Lady Mathews] go down there, are we? - Yes ma'am. - Oh my God. (door thudding) - It'll be just like - You promise? - Put your arms around my Is your husband (guns roaring) (First Lady shrieking) (parachute whooshing) (tense music continues) (tense music continues) Pleasure meeting you, ma'am. (First Lady shrieking) (water whooshing) - Thank you. Thank - Sure thing, ma'am. - That man who rescued - Ma'am, we have no idea. (tense music continues) (chimes tinkling) (eerie music) (door creaks) - Where you going? - To see George. - You want me to go with you? - Not this time. - You okay? - Yeah, I'm fine. I'll see you in a few days. (eerie music continues) (car rumbling) (car rumbling) (eerie music continues) (dog whines) Hello, Nevada? How you doing, boy? Huh? Yeah. (dog panting) - Well, this is a surprise. Hey, Joshua. - How you doing, George? - Nice to see you again. - Yeah. - You've done a lot - Well, we just Come on in for coffee. - Okay. - I heard about that It reminded me of the Oh, listen, I know you didn't just to reminisce with me. So come on, tell me, what's up? - How did you know when - It's a gut feeling. You just know it. Is it your time? - I think so. - Well, then you're gonna have to find yourself a replacement, just like I found you. (eerie music continues) (dramatic music) (computer beeping) - All right, let's listen up. All right, according to source the Santiago cartel for approximately 40% of into the States. - Excuse me, sir. - Sergeant. - Not that any of but if we know all this, why not send the video drop a load of juice, - Santiago cartel has set at the facility. - A school? - That's right. There's a teacher and at the site. - What the what? - Your mission is to while maintaining of civilian casualties. - An acceptable number Lieutenant, you mind explaining Five kids? - That is enough, Sergeant. You just remember, your the neutralization You got that? - Yes, sir. (helicopter whirring) (workers speaking in Spanish) (teacher speaking in Spanish) - Apple. One red apple. - [Students] One red apple. - Red apple. - [Students] Red apple. - Two red apples. - [Students] Two red apples. - Very good. - [Students] Very good. (students laughing) (worker screams) (eerie music) (people speaking in Spanish) - You should have thought of - No, senor. (people speaking in Spanish) (worker groaning) - Should I kill him? - No. I still got half a (Santiago laughs) (worker groaning) (helicopter whirring) - All right, remember the in precisely one hour. One hour. I'll be waiting for you. - All right, let's do it. (tense music) Move out! - All clear. (tense music continues) (tense music continues) - All right, it's three clicks That gives us 15 minutes 30 minutes for the mission, and 15 minutes to hump it Any questions? - Yeah, Deke, I got a question. Will you marry me? - You know, Burroughs, I would. But I already All right, now remember, Let's do it, gentlemen. (dramatic music) (eerie music) (workers speaking in Spanish) (teacher speaking in Spanish) (guard speaking in Spanish) (dramatic music) (flesh squelches) - Hablo Ingles? - All right, listen to me. I need you to get the - What are you gonna do? - Ma'am, please just do as I say and get the children to safety. - Okay. (dramatic music continues) (guard gasping) (people speaking in Spanish) (blows thudding) (dramatic music continues) (teacher speaking in Spanish) (blows thudding) (dramatic music continues) - Should I let you go? - Senor! (knife thuds) - Well, I guess so. (dramatic music continues) (guards speaking in Spanish) (guns roaring) (workers shouting) - We good to go? - All right, let's do it. (guns roaring) (workers speaking in Spanish) - Come on. Come on. Blow it. Blow it. Come on. What the hell? Fix it. (helicopter whirring) (dramatic music continues) (helicopter whirring) Come on. Blow it. - I think I got it. (dramatic music continues) Oh, what the? (helicopter whirring) - Get in! Get in! Where's Burroughs and Dobson? - I don't know, sarge. They were right behind us. - What's the matter? - Oh, we got two men - Come on, man, we gotta go. Blow it! Blow it! (guns roaring) (explosion booming) Oh yeah! All right, we are outta here. (guns roaring) Come on. Come on, man. We can make it. (guns roaring) (helicopter whirring) - All right, I can't wait. I got a report of an enemy We gotta get outta here. - No, we're not going anywhere. - Take 'er up! - No, he's not (helicopter whirring) - I gave you an order, soldier. I'm gonna have you court - Yeah, well, let me to court-martial me for! (blow thuds) (guns roaring) - [Soldier] Look, - All right, cover me. - Get back in here! Get- Slater! (dramatic music continues) (guns roaring) - He's hit bad, sarge. (guns roaring) (guard screams) - Pull back! Pull back! (dramatic music continues) (helicopter whirring) Hang in there, buddy. (helicopter whirring) - Looks like lieutenant saw a - Well, we understand the circumstances and can sympathize with for his men. The fact remains, you did and you did strike Therefore, this but to sentence you to in a federal facility. (gavel thuds) (triumphant music) (computer beeping) (eerie music) - [Inmate] Come on. Come on, you can't make that! - [Inmate] Good shot, Slater! - There he is. (eerie music continues) - [Inmate] Elbow! All right, come on! (eerie music continues) - Hey, you got a smoke? - No, sorry, I don't smoke. - Well neither do I. - Beat it, Slater. - Oh, I don't think so. - This ain't none - I'm making it my business. - That's fine with me. You wanna hang with them, (eerie music continues) - Everything cool? - Ask them. - You cross a line, Slater, there ain't no coming back. (eerie music continues) Outta the way. - [Inmate] Brother got lucky. (blows thudding) - Smith, Lumbridge, take a hike! Hey, Slater. Let's see how tough you are without your brothers - You don't wanna do this. - I don't? - No. (eerie music continues) (dramatic music) (blows thudding) (flesh squelches) (blows thudding) - He stabbed him! He stabbed him! Guards! Guards! (gate clanking) - [Guard] He's dead. Let's go, Slater. (gate buzzes) - I mean, we were all and all of a sudden - [Judge] Next witness. - Well, I got outta These Special Forces, We were all lucky to be alive. (somber music) - The defendant will rise. Not less than 30 years. (gavel thuds) (somber music continues) - I've got another 12 Of all of them, this (tense music) - Deke Slater. He's in prison? - Yes, but I've investigated In my opinion, he I mean, this guy got recruited by just about every major and he could have had athletic or academic scholarships - But he joined the military. Interesting. Okay, let's check him out. (tense music continues) (gate clanking) (inmates chattering) - [Guard] Slater! (tense music continues) - Who are you? - I'm your ticket out - [Guard] Open B409! (gate buzzing) (tense music continues) (eerie music) - What do you mean - What part of it don't - Look, wait a second. Wait. Look, first you without even a which, not for nothing, but You bring me here. You tell me I'm gonna meet And now you're saying you - You seem to understand (eerie music continues) - So this is the guy? A teacher? - A professor. - Whatever. This is the mystery man who's (eerie music continues) So, who are you? - Sh. - Look, I'm getting a of being yanked I've got some questions I told you I- (Deke groaning) - Now, what was it (tense music) - The president's man? - The position goes all the - Every president has had one person for whatever needs - Oh, whatever needs I see. - Well, within the bounds The position's The fact that it even - You're telling me the White House maintains - Exactly. So right now, you're the guy? - That's right. - So what is it you - Something like that. - So how do you know I'm - I don't. Yet. (tense music continues) - [Deke] Damn, - Our training facility. - As you can see, we - Including my personal - Or as I prefer to (tense music continues) - Well, when do we get started? - Glad to see you're Let's see how long it lasts. - Is she always this sarcastic? - This is one of (tense music continues) (gun roaring) (tense music continues) - That's very nice. But that's not - What does she mean by that? - Come on, I'll show you. (tense music) Got it? - Yeah, I got it. (blows thudding) (tense music continues) (tense music continues) - One, two, three, four, five! (gun roaring) (tense music continues) - Now that's how we do it. - Come on, let's try it again. (tense music continues) (computer beeping) (guard speaking in Spanish) - General Tran. Hey, General Tran. Welcome. - Thank you, Senor Santiago. It's our pleasure. - You have the plutonium? Thank you. It is my pleasure. (gentle music) - You didn't take any broccoli. - No, I don't really - I don't care if you don't - George Bush - Well, you're no George Bush. (gentle music continues) - So, what's he like? - Who? George Bush? - No, President Mathews. I mean, is he a good guy? - I don't know. - I serve as the liaison That way, should something there's no way of tracing Now eat your broccoli. - See, you're not the (gentle music continues) - Mm. (tense music) - [Joshua] Given a well-trained martial artist has the advantage over a But what about less You're tired, you're hungry, you're mentally and What then? You must develop the ability to maintain total focus to put everything your physical situation, your concern for your Nothing exists - This is something in the computer industry You can use it to access the communicate directly with me that the Pentagon and access top security files through both the Any questions? - Just one. Does it have solitaire? 'Cause I'm like a - Okay, listen carefully. This phone provides It's also a radio-controlled You'll dial an access (phone beeping) (explosion booms) (ominous music) This phone is powered by a than the head of a pin. - So what's that? - This is packed with C-7. This stuff makes C-4 (ominous music continues) - [Deke] Look, this is stupid. - [Joshua] What's stupid? - This. Sparring with Que. I mean, come on, no but I've had a lot (blow thuds) (upbeat rock music) - Rule number one, never - Come on, Joshua. She I'd like to see - Rule number one. - All right, I got it. I got it. - All right, let's go. Show me your muscles Or you're no Superman You know I can't 'Cause your mucho You wanna show me how You got a long way to go Before you know If you don't You better learn how to duck Good luck - When the bad guy - Yeah. - A split-second decision between life and death. (upbeat rock music) You wanna show me how You got a long way to go - You need to relax Before you know - The secret is commitment. When you go for it, go for it. Now try it again. Yeah, just try it (bright music) - So how'd you meet Joshua? - Actually, I've - Really? (bright music continues) (insects chirring) - All your file said is that What happened to your family? - I don't know. (somber music) When I was three years old, my parents dropped No note, no - You know, if you want, I - Thanks, but maybe someday. What about you? Where's your family? - Joshua is my family. - No, I mean your real family. - Joshua is my real family. He's my father. He met my mother in Vietnam They fell in love I came along soon after. (somber music continues) - What happened to your mother? - She was murdered. She and my father were betrayed by a man they thought (somber music continues) (bright music) Checkmate. - I really hate - You only think it's stupid because you're really bad at it. (bright music continues) (phone ringing) Yes, sir? Yeah. I'm on my way. (tense music) (tense music) - [President] I - It will be taken - I know it will. Donna, I'm ready for that - [Que] Her name - Daughter of Senator Bob Lyons? - The one and only. Three months ago, a girlfriend into joining a quote Three days ago, to smuggle out a She wants out. - But they won't let her out. - Exactly. - Now wait a minute. You've got the being held against her will. Why don't you send - Do the words Branch anything to you? - Yeah. You got a good point. - The cult is called The Chosen. Their leader, a one-time named Douglas Wetherby. - What right does Washington What right do these to demand tribute from us? The wolf may be but we will not let him in. We are a sovereign force, and we will fight to the death - [Congregant] Amen. - So inspirational, isn't he? (congregation clapping) (tense music continues) (device beeping) - I've just got one question. Are those guards supposed or keep people in? - Both probably. (tense music continues) (device beeping) - There she is. - You sure this will work? - The rifle fires a tiny pellet that contains trace elements She'll think she but the isotope will allow for the next 24 hours. (gun pops) (Courtney gasps) (device beeping) - We wait until - We? Hey, look, I think I - Why? - Why? 'Cause this I go in, I get her out, I'm back before anyone - No mission's a cakewalk and - There's only one way - Now we have guards So you gotta come in - Right. Never seen reconnaissance photos with this degree - We download them directly - What's the satellite network? - The eye in the sky. There probably isn't more than that aren't being seven days a week. (tense music continues) The mic is omnidirectional. Just speak normally. - [Deke] You got it. - [Que] Gimme your arm. - [Deke] Why? What's that? - Radioactive isotope. The red dot is Courtney Lyons. The blue dot here is you. (device beeping) - All right. - Okay, remember, it's You're in, you're out. - You got it. (tense music continues) - But Mr. Wetherby, the domestic terrorism bill If it passes, we're finished. - Who's sponsoring the bill? - Senator Lyons. - Go get Courtney Lyons. Perhaps it's time we sent (tense music continues) (tense music continues) (blow thuds) - Come on! Mr. Wetherby (blows thudding) - Who are you? - I was sent to Now let's go. - No, not without Cathy. - Ma'am, my mission Now, please, let's go. - No, I won't go without her. Look, you don't understand. She's my best friend. I can't leave her here. (tense music continues) - All right, where is she? - She's in here. - Cathy. Cathy, come on. We're getting outta here. - I told you earlier, Who are you? - Listen to me, okay? Wetherby is crazy. He's crazy. - Look, we have to go, - I'm not going anywhere. - I'm not leaving without her. (tense music continues) (blow thuds) - My God. - Stop right there. Mister, I don't but you just made (tense music continues) (tense music) Who sent you? - No one. I'm a friend of these ladies - You are not taking (blows thudding) (tense music continues) (blows thudding) - What do you think - She wouldn't - You had a mission. - I know Joshua. I know. Look, I'm sorry. - I'm gonna have to (tense music continues) - You need to talk to him. - He's not the easiest - Talk to him. (somber music) - I know you think I screwed up. - I don't think you screwed up. I know you screwed up. - I went with my instincts. - And that's the problem. All you go with Just like when you - I had two men - And you were right about that, but you had other options. - What? What other You tell me. - Think about it. And how about when you - That was self-defense - Again, all you went with - Joshua, what's your point? - My point is, is that you gotta besides your instincts. - Oh yeah? - Like maybe perhaps your brain. - Well, maybe I'm just - Maybe you're not. (somber music continues) - Deke feels terrible. - He should. He jeopardized a mission. - What are you going to do? - I'm not sure. (somber music continues) (ax thudding) You getting ready for winter - Hey, Joshua. Oh, a little bit of both. What's up? What's wrong? - I may have picked the - What makes you think that? - I don't know. He's just so cocky and he - And you don't think when you first started? - Maybe a little. - Maybe a lot. But you learned. There's two things When I told you to I didn't mean just find one. You had to create one. You don't look for the You look for his positive side. And second, just because he would have 'em done, that doesn't necessarily (uplifting music) - Hi. How was your visit? - It was fine. Deke, we need to talk. - I'll be in my office. - No, this involves all of us. You screwed up. - Joshua, I know, but that's- - Let me finish. You screwed up, but you screwed up You're going to make mistakes, but it's how you deal that's gonna make - So does this - You're not that lucky. (uplifting music continues) - The Americans call But no, it is a war on us. They destroyed but they will never Americans think they can that there is nothing we Well, General Tran, thanks they are about to find (eerie music) (upbeat rock music) (knives thudding) So you think you're tough Gonna strut your stuff You can talk the talk The walls keep Got the plan, got the Gonna roll the dice, But can you brave the fire Being good won't get you far When you bet your life, You can talk but there 'Cause only the - Okay. Now I want two giants - What, I just did that. - I know, but this time I (Deke laughs) - Wait, he's kidding, right? - What do you think? (upbeat rock music continues) Being good won't get you far When you bet your life, You can bluff but there Better think fast, You can never lose, 'Cause only the (upbeat rock music continues) - One! Two! Three, four, five! Better think fast, You can never lose, And only the strong will Survive - Now, that's what - Yeah. You're doing better. - Better? Better? Be the best, be a superstar Fight the fight, Only the strong will survive (bell rings) - 18 seconds. - Yes! Man, am I good or am I good? - What'd I tell you about - Well, you know the saying, it ain't bragging if - It's still bragging. - Well, this bragger thinks that he can beat - Oh really? Let's see. (dramatic music) (Deke grunting) (bell rings) - Oh man, you don't play fair. - I play to win. What were you thinking about? - Oh, I don't know. The mission, ringing the bell. - And what stopped you? - You did. - Exactly. Sometimes you may have before you go for the objective. - Okay, gentlemen Dr. Francis Anderson, and the National Security in tactical nuclear weaponry. Dr. Anderson failed to An NSA team was Dr. Anderson, his wife, Stacey and Terry, weren't there. Now, the NSA, in has launched a But up to the moment, - Do they believe the - Yes. And they're pulling out all The president has (tense music) (truck rumbling) - Come on, everybody out! Come on, get out! Come on! - What's going on here? Who are you? - Your new employer. - What do you want from me? - Six tactical nuclear weapons. Our Vietnamese friends will and you will be Let's see how strong to the war on drugs is when a nuclear device explodes - I'm not gonna help you- - Oh, but you will. And let me make this You will help us because if you don't, your entire family will die, one by one, slowly and painfully. Okay? (tense music continues) (bright music) (computer beeps) - Check. I'm getting good at this. - Yeah, you're But checkmate. - I hate this game. - But you are (bright music continues) - They found Dr. According to the latest Dr. Anderson and his family by the Santiago drug - Santiago drug cartel? When I was with Delta their main operation. - Yeah, well they've in a remote section of - Do we have a location? - No. By current estimates, over 16,000 square miles by the drug lords. And there are hundreds throughout the country. According to intelligence Don Diego Santiago struck a deal with a group of ex-Vietnamese led by a General Vinh Tran. (ominous music) - Vinh Tran. (heart-wrenching music) (gun roars) (heart-wrenching (gun roars) (heart-wrenching - Vinh Tran. Do you know the guy? (melancholy music) - I know him. - Is he the one? - What? What'd he do? - He's the man who (melancholy music continues) (ominous music) (guards speaking in Spanish) - [Santiago] Open it! - Weapons-grade plutonium. Where did you get this? - Your contact in Colombia He'll meet you at this location at four o'clock - Why is this guy helping us? - Felipe's mother, father, were murdered by Santiago's men. - Well, that's a - Yeah, I'll say. (dramatic music) (jet roaring) - Man, it's tight in here. - In a few minutes, you're gonna have all - [Pilot] Three minutes (dramatic music continues) - Okay. (button beeps) (jet roaring) (jet roaring) (wind whooshing) (dramatic music continues) (wind whooshing) (dramatic music continues) (parachutes whooshing) (dramatic music continues) (tense music) (device beeping) - Our contact's villa is (tense music continues) Santiago's men. (tense music continues) (blows thudding) (blows thudding) (bones crunching) (tense music continues) (blows thudding) (bones crunching) (tense music continues) (blows thudding) (guard groans) (blow thuds) (tense music continues) So much for our contact. (tense music continues) (tense music) So what do we do? - The NSA has an eye in the sky that sweeps this area - Yeah, even so, Que said that there are hundreds of these drug compounds Finding the right one would be like finding - Yeah. (tense music continues) I have an idea. Let's contact Que. - [Deke] Que, we need to - Do you have the coordinates? - Five degrees, 75 degrees, 11 minutes west. - I'm accessing (tense music continues) (computer beeping) Timeframe? - Start at 16:00 hours - Ah, those are our boys. Santiago's hit team. - Scan back. (computer beeping) Put a marker on the Jeep and track it back (computer beeping) - Stop there. Zoom in. (computer beeping) - We found it. Que, what are the coordinates? - Seven degrees, 77 degrees, two minutes west. That puts it in the middle of the jungle right - Okay. We'll contact you when - [Que] Good luck, guys. (tense music continues) (guards speaking in Spanish) - How much longer? - I don't know. This equipment, it's ancient. - You have until - That's impossible. (screwdriver thuds) - With proper motivation, You'll be finished by tomorrow. (tense music continues) - [Terry] I wanna go home! - I know, I know. And we will. - When? - Soon, honey. Soon as daddy gets (tense music continues) - Come! - Where are you taking us? (tense music continues) - Pick one. - What are you talking about? - Pick the one first to die. - No. I won't do this. - Fine, I'll pick. - No! (tense music continues) - You are too valuable to kill. For now. (tense music continues) (blow thuds) (Donna gasps) (Tran sighs) You. Maybe you want to because if he then tomorrow I'm going (children whimpering) (tense music continues) - No. No, baby. (tense music continues) (Jeep rumbling) - It's almost on. - How much farther? - Six miles to camp that way. (tense music continues) - Okay, let's hoof it. (tense music continues) (birds chirping) (tense music) (device beeps) (tense music continues) (birds chirping) - It's time. - It's almost there. - I'm sorry, doctor, but how could you if I didn't keep my word? - No way, please. I'll give you your nuclear bomb. I just need a little - And you'll have it. After we execute your daughter. (tense music continues) (guards speaking in Spanish) (blows thudding) (tense music continues) (blows thudding) (blows thudding) (blows thudding) (bones crunching) (tense music continues) (blows thudding) (blows thudding) (blows thudding) (blows thudding) (guard groans) (blows thudding) (tense music continues) - No, you can't - No! No! No, Terry! - Mommy? - No! No! No! No! No! (gun roars) - [Terry] Daddy! Daddy! - Who did that? - I don't know! - Who did that? Come out now! Come out now or they all die. Come out! - [Santiago] There he is! (tense music continues) - Who are you? (water whooshes) Who are you? (electricity sizzling) (Deke grunts) You will tell me Why should you suffer first? (tense music continues) - I don't know. It's (electricity sizzling) (Deke grunting) - Come get us when (water whooshes) (electricity sizzling) (blows thudding) (blow thuds) (tense music continues) - Good work. - You were watching - Yeah, I was. Get the family to safety. There's something I gotta do. - [Deke] All right. (tense music) - Tran. (tense music continues) - Joshua McCord (laughs). You are a very hard man to kill. - Why did you do it? - $200,000. The North Vietnamese very - Why my wife? Why Li? - I couldn't leave witnesses. (tense music continues) (blows thudding) - Whoa. Easy. Easy. I'm on your side. - Who are you? - I've been sent to get you All right, now stay - Okay. - [Santiago] I told you to put - Wait, I'll be back. Wait. (door creaks) - I often wondered what would (tense music continues) - Let's find out. (blows thudding) (blows thudding) (tense music continues) - Come on. We're moving you to a Come on, Doc. Bo, where's the guard? - I don't know. (tense music continues) (blows thudding) (blows thudding) (Tran shouts) (blows thudding) (blows thudding) (shovel thudding) (blows thudding) (blows thudding) (blows thudding) (Tran screams) (blows thudding) (tense music continues) (blow thuds) (blows thudding) (tense music continues) (blows thudding) (bones crunching) (blows thudding) (blows thudding) (gun roars) (bones cracking) (tense music continues) - That him? - Yeah. Call Que. (triumphant music) (device beeps) (helicopter whirring) Okay. You'll be safe now. - Thank you. (triumphant music continues) - You did good, Deke. - Thanks. I had a good teacher. - Let's do it. (door taps) - [President] Come in. - Mr. President, we just - Dr. Anderson and and on their way home. - Thank God. (dramatic music) (device beeping) (explosion booms) (dramatic music continues) (somber music) - What's that? - Your record? It's been wiped clean. - What do you mean wiped clean? - It means you're free to - Whatever I want, huh? - So what do you want? - I wanna be the (dramatic music) (gentle music) (dramatic music) (jet roaring) - Get ready for (button beeps) (dramatic music continues) Good luck, sir. (button beeps) (wind whooshing) (jet roaring) (dramatic music) (dramatic music continues) (eerie music)