What is a MAC address? So that is the topic of this video. Now the MAC or media access control address uses to uniquely identify itself on a network. So no 2 devices anywhere in the world will The MAC address is made up of a 6 byte, hexadecimal manufacturer. The MAC address can contain any number and The MAC address is broken up into 2 parts. The first 3 bytes identify the manufacturer The last 3 bytes are identifies each device on a network. The MAC address is also referred to as the MAC addresses are formatted in different On a windows computer, it will look like this, with On Apple and Linux systems, it will have colons And Cisco will display the MAC address like So what exactly is the purpose of the MAC The purpose of the MAC address is so network Whenever a device wants to talk to another And this is whether the devices are close or if they are thousands of miles apart on The bottom line is that devices communicate with each other using the MAC address. Now you might be asking yourself, well if devices talk What is the purpose of an IP address? I mean aren't IP addresses also unique? Well public IP addresses are unique. But public So you may have had a certain IP address for a network administrator can change your IP address to But MAC addresses don't change. They are permanent. Now the way TCP/IP works, which is the language a networking device needs both an IP address work together so devices can talk to each So as I stated before, the MAC address is is used to locate that device. So for example in a typical neighborhood, you Each house has a mailing address and the person An IP address is like the mailing address country, city, and the street of where the tell us who lives in the house. But a MAC address is like the name of the So an IP address tells us where a networking But a MAC address tells us specifically who So as I stated before the MAC address is ultimately So here we have a local area network that you would find in a typical home or business. So let's say that computer A wanted to communicate So computer A is going to inspect computer network or not. So after inspection, computer A now knows that computer B is on the same network because the IP addresses are in the same group. So now in order for communication to take Computer A needs computer B's MAC address and ARP or address resolution protocol broadcast. So it will broadcast to every device on its itself by asking for its MAC address. Then address, communication can finally take place. So in another scenario, what if 2 devices they are on different networks. So let's say Now in order for computer A to go to google.com But the problem is, is that it doesn't know what it to get the web server's MAC address. So computer A will type in google.com in its web browser and then DNS will change google.com into an IP address so computers can understand So computer A will inspect Google's IP address network because the IP address is not in the same So now computer A realizes that Google's IP address another network it's going to forward the data to then it will let the router deal with it. So again computer A will send out an ARP MAC address of the default gateway. Then the data to the default gateway. Then once the default gateway has the data the best path for the data to reach the destination. So it will forward the data to the next router. needs the next router's MAC address. So it's for that router's MAC address Then once it And then that router needs the MAC address of the next router, and so on. Then once the data reaches the final router of Google's web server. And then once it has it, the So as you can see each time data is passed device it uses the MAC address to forward So to summarize, the IP Address is used to But the MAC address is used at each step on Now if you want to find the MAC address of a computer, this is how you do it. So on a Windows computer, you just open up a command prompt and type ipconfig /all. On Linux and MAC computers, you open up a So here is our MAC address for this Windows the physical address. Now a computer can have more than one MAC It just depends on how many network interfaces So for example this computer has 3 MAC addresses. This one here is for the wired network adapter. This one here is for the wireless network network adapter. Now if you want to know more about this topic, other videos. Such as my ARP video, because it will about the ARP cache and how it works. And Because it will explain how devices know or if they're on a different network. So I want to thank you for watching this video Please subscribe and I will see you in the next video.