Is that a plane? What the hell is that? Excuse me, Professor Hendricks? Why didn't I get credit for number five? You didn't write anything. You missed a trivial solution I didn't miss it. Find all solutions. You understand the definition &quot;Sometimes non-trivial solutions sometimes they can't. the trivial solution is the only solution Exactly. and the important question is whether If that's the important question if there are any non-trivial solutions? Because I want you But the most important question is whether Indeed. That is the case with this problem. So, why is it trivial Now, I saw x=0 and y=0 was the only one AKA trivial. -I believe you're convoluting your words. The book even says &quot;paradoxically.&quot; Sit down. Anybody else before I finish up here? Thank you. So, in the lab for next time you should do problems one through 43. The GDP of Assumption Land is 30,000, the price level is 28, So, if the government decides increase the money supply what economic variable will be affected and what will its new value be? Why does every problem have to take place Can't they just say, like, a real country? Well, it's easier than saying You did know that's why it's called -Speaking of flooding the market. Did you know if everyone stopped it would actually lower the rate of STDs? There would be more people So, the chances of catching something You do not pay me enough for this crap. Hey, Derek, you want to do Get it over with before the exam? -Derek? &quot;Flight operations at Cincinnati were temporarily suspended this afternoon hovering above the airport. Witnesses included route mechanics This article says it looked like a silver disc the size of a dime Dude, Natalie does not want to hear &quot;A United ramp mechanic who wished witnessed the aircraft and saw it depart. However, he was surprised to hear and ground control several minutes later 'It's still here.'&quot; People in the tower work with times There's no way that they would get So, the fact that one guy is saying and everyone else is saying How long did you watch it for? -I ran away. I was scared. -Because of the noise. -Like someone was playing the flute. -What's the case number? Rebecca Watkins, Omega, Georgia. -Access code? What can I do for you, Mr. Ahls? I'd like to archive this case file. Insufficient evidence; subject is being released It felt like all the air was running out and that the plants were going to die The contents are being accessed right now. Would you like me to check No, cut it off. Okay, BLACKBOX-RW-11-02-04 and is no longer remotely accessible Is there anything else I can do for you, No. Thank you. -Ahls. about a sighting in sector 6, negative 84.65842 longitude, UAP elevation approximately 2,800. It was right over Cincinnati Airport. Radio? We intercepted a signal across We're sending you the radar feed We interviewed all the witnesses, Roland Junger, Airport Director. You know, I would have suggested I hope your cameras because I'm going to need the footage from every single one All terminals, gates, hallways, stores, baggage claims, runways, I'm also going to need passenger manifests, conference rooms preferably. I don't have four conference rooms You have two, plus the EOC and one of your larger rooms, So, you want me to shut everything down and start kicking people out of No, nothing gets shut down. Everything continues as normal. The man who is giving we do need to shut him down, Thousands of passengers from all over but what about the ones Well earlier today, airline employees claimed they saw hovering over the airport before it shot off into the sky, So, what do four billion light years Well, not so fast. held a news conference We interviewed all of the witnesses... and we now believe Four to five feet in diameter, That's what's going to happen if Amazon You know dropping Kindles into the middle It wasn't a drone okay. the times don't match. The route mechanic said it was A what? Dime held at arm's length. Does that match what was on TV? What that guy said, four to five feet? -No way. You don't know how high it was. Well, somebody said that it was about How high was cloud cover? -No? It was 2,900 feet, so 27 to 2,800. So, let's just say 2,750. Dude, don't you have exams to study for Don't you have exams to study for -Yes. Yeah. Bye. So now, how big is a dime? 17.9 millimeters. 17.9 millimeters. What is that? Like two feet. -22 inches. I forgot about Professor Magg's Panel. You know that thing I'm setting up, You're still coming, right? -Derek? Okay. Well, I'm not going to stay late because I've got to take the practice GRE Where's that at? It's over by Xavier. -I'll drop you off. -I'll borrow Lee's. Can you make sure? -I can't miss this. X equals 88. It doesn't match! X equals 88. He was lying! It's not four to five feet. -Hello? -Yes. if we could ask you some questions -I'm sorry. Who is this? and I got your cellphone number Who do you work for? The News Record. we wanted to ask you based -there were some things that we learned-- -Is that based out of Ohio? University? You mean... -Yes? Do not call this number again. All I want to know is why you thought Witness account says it was about the size Cloud cover was 2,900 feet, below that which would make it Sir, Whitley is in the field and she's claiming to have heart problems. There are plenty of other witnesses Call an ambulance and have them move on. Paramedics will have to take her Excuse me. I keep getting calls from this guy. He's saying he knows -Did you get his name of this person? Thanks, Dave. Did any camera get a visual on this UAP? -Pull up Gate A8. No, nothing there. How about A18? Do we have a clearer shot I'm not seeing anything. There you go. There is nothing. Yes sir. All right, freeze that. I want the names of all those passengers. Freeze that. I want all those employees in Conference Room A. I've been told that So, you should know your coworkers, your friends, your family, you could be charged with obstruction Where's everyone else? Yeah, why is it just us here? What's going on? They're saying it's a plane now. Look at this. Okay. &quot;After reviewing the witness testimony, to the conclusion seen over Cincinnati/ was in fact a Gulfstream IV airplane 88 feet-- &quot;It matches witness descriptions -that the mystery has been solved.&quot; He's using what I told him on the phone I bet you there is no record or out of the airport that day. Go to ATCAudioLive.com. ATCAudioLive. -Somebody must've taken it down. People listen to that stuff all day, Somebody recorded it. We'll be out of here soon, okay? Yeah, United maintenance flight is just what's your number, again? United maintenance 44. Hey. Hey! I don't know. Today's not so good. Why not? Where are you? I'm at Cincinnati Airport. This terminal is crawling Why would they still be here It is an airport. Bought the cheapest ticket I could find. Derek! I can't get a B in Hendricks' class. Professor Hendricks? Hi. I was just wondering, My midterms one after the other, If you are asking for an extension, Why? Derek, you are one of the brightest and you are also the most disruptive Even when you know other people are right, Well, that trivial-non-trivial stuff No, it isn't-- not for you. You're on scholarship Yes, I read my students' files. And you got that scholarship which is one of the top and you are failing my class. Is there something we need to talk about? No. I've been at CVG a long time What was it like at the airport It was fairly chaotic. The government showed up and there were agents everywhere. into a conference room, They didn't tell us what was going on. They took away our phones; They didn't let us call home, It was terrifying. The airline employee said from pilots and other airport workers However, despite repeated requests, any transcripts or recordings You really think someone's gonna Is this a-- It's a chatroom on Tor. What's Tor? It's one of the ways to get which is where people do things because it's very hard to trace. &quot;TheirPlansAgainstUs&quot;? Whose plans against us? It's H.G. Wells' War of the Worlds. &quot;ATCronnie, Pilot81604,&quot; Man, you know, these are just a bunch making up fake accounts. It might not be the pilot of a 747, it might be someone who flies Yeah, or it might be someone What are the numbers at the end? Probably 13 years old. Here we go. Dawn? D-A-W-N? Like the name Dawn? -What's her deal? What? She's probably not interested. -Probably real smart-- -Right. Why are there so many files? United, American, these Here we go, here's the tower. United 367 preparing for takeoff. Not sure but to our left looks like On the runway? No, south of that. altitude maybe 2,700 feet. I'm not seeing anything, The hell was that noise? You have eyes on it now? Yeah, it's not moving, Copy that, 367, Stand by. Anyone else hearing this? What is it, Hal? 367, I'm getting confirmation -What'd she say? Copy that, 367, standby. Anyone else hearing this? What is it, Hal? Sounds like &quot;Hal.&quot; -367, I'm getting confirmation. -Tower. Hal, Al, Hal. Hal Lapierre? Yes. Is he on shift right now? Let me check. Good luck with Hal, dude. Hey, yo, Zach! Where's that vodka? two, three... 523... Five over... Hello? Who's calling? Sir, you couldn't have seen it. Who is this? They said you saw the UFO, on the radio. They said that you said Are you a reporter? Why not? Because I can't, okay. I'm sorry. No, no, wait, wait. I understand that you're not allowed to -No, no, I never said that. no way that you could have seen it -looking almost directly up-- There is an overhang on the tower and I know -No, that's not what-- that you could have seen it I never said I saw it! I-- Mr. Lapierre? He didn't see it, he heard it. The static. Wh... what about it? That's what he heard. The interference is from the UFO. Yeah, it's not moving, Copy that, 367, stand by. It's a sequence of tones. represented here by these circles, of a second of silence which comes out And then it started to repeat itself, I have no idea why. You think it's some sort of signal? What's that? Well, I was thinking maybe it was binary looks at chunks of 32, 64 at 64. I have no idea how to break this up, because you've got 14 circles here So, if it is 14, this chunk comes out to 9,433 okay? Or you could bring it into one is 73 and one is 89. You gonna come over again today? No, I have to study. I don't get anything done Will you at least take a copy home? Afternoon. Non-homogenous systems. These are systems It's open. Hi. My name is Natalie, and I was wondering about letters I only give letters of recommendation so I will talk to you at the end Right, okay. Would it maybe be possible to get -I already told Derek no. He's got a lot going on right now. From what I've read, a lot do their best work in their early 20's; Riemann, Abel, Galois, I know the list. You. Look, I've made my contributions. Now it's your turn, Either get him on board, Okay. Hello, leave a message. Lee, I've figured it out. It's dates. That's the Fine-Structure Constant, I think maybe they're trying Or they're trying to tell us that has the same physical laws as ours. But they're not from five billion He's already figured it out. Isn't the lead singer like the main part So, it may as well be a cover band you know, it's like the same guitarist but I just feel like on a basic level, I mean, I don't know. Lee, did you get my message? as a way to communicate: 1+2=3, 3-2=1. Okay and the Fine-Structure Constant So maybe they're trying to tell us or maybe they're just trying to establish so that we can actually decode it. and physics, knows numbers Yeah, of course. That's binary. Then there's 2,623 times 2,953. Okay so 2,623 is the total number Each one is one-tenth of a second long. So that's almost exactly nine days, okay. plus nine days, that's next Thursday. Okay, so what's happening Thursday? Maybe it's coming back. I'm not an astrophysicist I just want to ask you a few questions I'm told that you could shed some light for determining intelligence Using the FSC to determine intelligence but using it to pinpoint a location Say the FSC is different which there's essentially no evidence of. If the FSC did depend on things way far apart from each other they might also have the same FSC. And if you gave that number to someone, But if we had more than one, we use pulsars to pinpoint locations? Over a much greater distance, obviously? The idea that it's different isn't really the focus of research now. You know, I have a room full of scientists to explain anything to me. The mystery continues hovering over CVG this past Tuesday is no longer unidentified, Reports of more bizarre activity around including widespread disruption of radio Verizon, AT&amp;T and Sprint all confirmed in the Ohio and Kentucky area with T-Mobile being the least affected. Were you open last Tuesday? Did you hear about the thing No, I didn't see it, but I heard about it. And I think it might have messed I kept getting all this static. Hey! Were you open, last Tuesday? So, if this was a UFO, right? And there were aliens on it... what do you think they would look like? You mean, do I think they're like -Yeah. Think about this. I can take these two shakers, right? Put them in front of you because they stay in place, right? But if I was from a liquid planet, and I don't mean a planet but one that is molten by the time I put the second one down, -the first-- -No, Lee. The first one, well, it could have moved off. You know, I asked Well, they probably look like... something so far beyond &quot;Found something in the signal. if you come to the party tonight.&quot; What party? It's probably that Sigma Kai thing. Is that-- is that Natalie? 9,433 is a prime number; the multiplier at the end of the signal. 9,433 times 38. -So, what does that mean? could mean it came but one on its own doesn't mean -So, you're going? To the party We're heading over at eight. You're right, this is stupid. This is first... Text me if you change your mind. -Campus Police. and someone has broken All my stuff's... oh, shit. My webcam's on. There's an executable running and my webcam was on. Could you possibly have a virus? It's not a virus. Did anyone physically break in here? Yeah. I just have one more question. There was an executable running and I had no idea what it was. I tried reformatting the computer, It was on Lee's computer too. Hello, leave a message. -I saw something in the activity monitor. It looks like somebody was-- 2,623 doesn't have any other divisors other than 43 and 61, does it? Those are both prime. So, if I resize the window 61 by 43... it's a grid! All the dots line up! They wanted us to know that 2,623 The signal that Frank Drake and Carl Sagan That was a semi-prime number too. We have to go. it's today. Nine, four, three, three times 38, what do these two lines mean? I wonder if they've got anything to do Can anyone explain to me how this As well as pinpointing How come we don't know everything People? I guarantee you, or you all were trying to decode things would be a little bit different So, I'm gonna try to put this Ten to the 16 watts of energy. Now, I know you're all familiar Type I, Type II, Type III civilizations. Type I is a global civilization roughly equivalent striking the planet's surface. Ten to the 16 or 17 watts. Type II controls all the energy Right now, we are about a Type 0.7. We are becoming a global civilization, We control-- roughly ten Now, scientists like you, have calculated that we might to a Type I in the next if we don't destroy ourselves first. We should see evidence everywhere in the universe, but what have we found so far? Nothing, which makes me think it's either very rare or impossible to becoming a Type I, at CVG the other day, They have a mastery of space travel that, Chances are they have made And we need to find out how they did it because I don't know about you, but... I'm pretty sure we can't do it on our own. It's eight o' clock, He's going to be fine. The second you sat down, and you were working on that crap! I bet you totally forgot about tomorrow. You're taking the practice GRE at 9:00, Now will you please just-- because there's something -Derek, I'm going home. I'm sure Lee didn't either. What if he gets kicked out of school? His Dad's a huge benefactor at UC. Okay, now will you come with me? Over here. Okay, so if this is the distance how far do you think Proxima Centauri? Twenty feet? See, 71? About twice as far as that, 4.3 miles. Now, if that's our scale, how big do you think the galaxy is? You'd have to keep walking until you got right back here; and then do that three more times. And that's just our galaxy. There are at least 100 billion Derek, do you know Because I live on Earth. And I need so he'll give me a recommendation What's your plan? What are you doing? 'Cause it seems like the only thing -is that signal. When I was a kid, I saw something. I was in the diner and I saw these lights outside. Not like a helicopter light, I mean, they were... And it wasn't like some grainy video I saw it. I tried to tell her about it, What was she supposed to do? Believe me. Do something. -I don't know. You know, your kid You know what I think? I think she just didn't care. Okay, so you have some baggage. Doesn't give you the right Hundreds of years go by... and people make tiny, little improvements. And then there's an opportunity to take Like with relativity, When it's your finals week, you cut yourself off from everyone. you drink 100 cans of Red Bull. You don't talk to anyone because you know everything This is my finals week. What are the most important questions &quot;Is there a God?&quot; &quot;What happens when we die?&quot; And... &quot;Are we alone in the universe?&quot; If anyone answered it would change everything. We're never as alone as we think we are. Hey, we've... Phone's dead. What, did they give you a fine or what? You're not going to get kicked out Lee, I... but I think someone's monitoring Who? What the fuck are the police going to do Right. I probably So basically, We almost figured it out, okay? it makes so much more sense. And there are these two lines on it -Could I borrow your car? -Can you drive me to the airport then? I have exams. Don't you? Tuesday, but Dave Ellison has to see this. And then what? He's just going to crack I don't see how he can deny it. Can't you take a bus? The only way I'm going to catch him And if I can't get into the employee lot, Home? This is the last time. I will never That's him! -Go, man! Before he gets away! Mr. Ellison? Did you know that there was -What? It sounded like there was interference, I'm sorry. Who are you? I'm Derek. Excuse me? Is this the long-term lot? You held a press conference I saw you on TV and you said that Did you do that yourself? How in depth were they? -I don't know-- -He didn't say any-- So, there was only one guy? And how many people did you interview? from the news article -Is there a problem here? So, if there was one guy, and there were eight eye witnesses, I don't see how you could have Is there a problem here? -We spoke to all of them briefly before-- -all the witnesses on that day.&quot; -didn't take place until-- Do you know how many threats If it's not somebody threatening they're going to bring on box cutters, gun down people in the terminal, In the middle of all of this, they saw something so we checked surveillance. -Tower didn't see anything. So, what are we supposed to do? Try to convince the Air Force to scramble just to shoot down something Close down the airport because of something that most people Even if the people in the tower -They didn't see anything! -from your own employees-- -We did a thorough investigation-- We found that it was a Gulfstream IV, -Look at the tower! -With the overhang, how could they know? -How would they even know that? I want them out of here. Natalie, he admitted it. Dave admitted it was a cover-up. -Did you hear what I said? Are you-- Are you mad at me? What do you need, Derek? Study notes? What? No. Then why are you here? I came here to tell this -Do you understand how huge this is? The practice GRE! Derek, if you had the chance and all the circumstances were the same, That's what I thought. Look, what do I have to do to fix this? You can't, okay? Natalie? You'll never be alone. Oh, shit! Come on! Hello? Can I talk to Professor Hendricks, please? Who is this? It's Derek. I'm in one of her classes. It's Derek. He says he's a student. Derek? How did you get this number? Look, I know it's late -but I have something-- There are phone numbers -are available 24 hours a day... -You're the best mathematician I know! This isn't some bullshit textbook problem, This is more complicated And if I'm right, I've got 'til Where did this come from? The tower radio at an airport. Becca, is everything all right? Yeah. Go back to bed. We'll just be a minute. -Sorry if I woke you guys up. You know there was a man who lived a brilliant man, an inventor. He took credit for other people's work. He conducted dangerous experiments that cost his assistant his arms. He even helped and he used it to kill somebody that his competitor's technology His name was Thomas Edison. You strike me as that kind of person, Now don't get me wrong, I like electricity, but I certainly I'm sorry, could you sit down? -You said this came from a tower radio? There was something hovering Yeah, I heard about that. I think that this is a signal You know what I've never understood Say you parked your car in the same spot -I don't have a car. And say you parked it in the same spot And then one day, you came out and instead, there was an orange cone. Would you automatically assume into an orange cone? -Professor-- or that you had accidentally parked it I don't see what that has to do You don't automatically jump You analyze the reasonable ones first. I've done that, obviously! And nothing that happened at the airport At all. Do you have the tower recording? No, south of that, down by you guys I've not seen anything, Do you have eyes on it now? -Yeah, it's not moving, just laying... The signal strengths are different The strongest is the American Ground ops, and then the quietest is United. Okay. the tower is 360.85, American is 460.675. It gets louder The phones. T-Mobile is 700 to 1700 MHz and above. Every carrier had interference So somewhere between 700 and-- Wait, SETI said you should use 1,420 MHz because it has the same and hydrogen is the most common element Any intelligent life form would know So, maybe they broadcast until it built up to 1,420 MHz, and then they spiked it at 1,420 to draw What uses 1,400 MHz? -Wireless telemetry systems. Any hospital even remotely would've gone completely haywire. -St. Elizabeth. from the University We were just wondering if you had recently -with your wireless telemetry systems. We had to send patients to Edgewood. The only things we don't know 9,433 times 38 and 9,433 times 22. Maybe they're landing patterns, -207,526 meters north. Or a foot, or anything. Maybe it's not even north and east. Well, the equations are meant to be read and so it would make sense But I think you need to talk I could recommend a couple. What? Professor. I know you think that if we stare that something is going to click, And I am certainly not the person I mean, Maths, Science, Physics? Riemann. Galois. Einstein. Eugene Ehrhart was 60 when he got his PhD. The Ehrhart polynomial? Yitang Zhang was 57 when he proved of consecutive pairs of primes that were separated by less than Two examples. Schrodinger. Frohlich. Smale. Okay! Okay. But I'm telling you... you can't force it. And sometimes, you just get stuck. I know that look. Okay. I'm kicking you out. We are servants So, you're saying I just have to wait Do you know the definition We need to be collecting Afternoon. Chapter four. Now, if we have a square matrix &quot;A&quot; then this matrix times the vector is equal to a scalar lambda times Now, the &quot;v&quot; is called an eigenvector, and the lambda is called an eigenvalue, and these kinds of problems like structural engineering And it has a wavelength of 21 centimeters. That would be significant, wouldn't it? Derek? It doesn't matter. The matrix is double, 21 centimeters. 21 centimeters, what? The frequency of hydrogen. The spectral line of neutral hydrogen and a wavelength of 21 centimeters. Two lines, 38 increments east. And 22 north. And then you multiply both by 9,433. And then by 21 centimeters. The wavelength is the unit It is coordinates. Lee? Lee? I need to use your car? Please. Go, man. Go for it. -Thank you. We are servants rather than masters Remember when I told you Yes. That would be significant, wouldn't it? Derek? What do you think they would look like? Here's the keys, sir. -Will you gentlemen excuse us, please? Let's get those off of you. The sighting at CVG wasn't the first. There were others. And every time we tried using a variation of the Arecibo signal, They put the fine-structure constant to build a common mathematical language. I didn't know it could be used In the new signal we received today, We can only measure it to 12. And this one is much more complex The last one was 14-bit, And not only is it laid out on a grid, Which tells us a couple of thing. One-- They're a hell of a lot smarter than us. And two, when we're trying to find them, In their first signal, they sent here on Earth. -In this new signal, I believe they sent-- Well, the focus of research now throughout the universe, Okay, so we have to work out Which means developing new technologies, And that could take five years or 500. Or five months, with your help. And you do understand what this means? We're not alone. And then there's this story United Airlines employees who swear in the skies above Chicago's but neither the FAA, appears to be taking them seriously. Chicago Tribune, interviewing including maintenance workers, who each have all described that hovered low over Concourse C of the United Airlines terminal before shooting off into the sky. it literally punched a hole in the clouds. of the sighting, even though employees say The FAA initially told the Tribune that Then, after the newspapers filed paperwork under the Freedom of Information Act, from the United Airlines supervisor asking whether the object was on-radar. it was, quote, &quot;weather phenomenon,&quot;