- In this US Government lab, they study air flow to solve crimes, using mirrors, lights and lasers, they can illuminate in air temperature and density, and track how drug powder determine which person fired a gun, or spot particles escaping A portion of this video was Our best tool for picking has been the same for centuries. - So it turns out nature with the best chemical detector, and that is the dog's nose. So this is Bubbles. She's a 3D-printed, of a female Labrador Retriever. We tried to get one of the and get in front of the mirror, but dogs get hungry and And we got about four and I'm like, okay, we - Dogs can sniff very faint scents and from far away, but they don't do it just by breathing in. What they do is breathe out and in rapidly around five times a second. (air whizzing) - What I want you to notice by the, we'll call it This is our doggy treat. If you notice this pulsating motion. - And what allows them to is the rapid and turbulent exhale. - When the dog exhales, there's a turbulent air jet just like when you and I exhale. If you put your hand under here and just exhale outta your nose, those are two turbulent air jets coming out of the dog's nose. But when the dog is down on the ground, those air jets are vectored The dog is pushing air back, and when by doing that, it's So imagine me, I'm blowing air this way, and when I do that, I actually reach out The dog reverses flow inhales, right? Gets a new sample, analyzes it with an amazing chemical Its olfactory region, and does it at five times a second. On average, a dog when it's five times a second repetitive sine wave. So that's what makes the dog this incredible sampling system. It kind of didn't matter the breed of dog. Somehow their evolution okay, one over five seconds is what I need before I take the next If the dog had infinite lung capacity, and it just inhaled constantly, it has a very limited reach. But because of this in its reach goes up by We have a number of commercially okay? Because some of for various explosives and drugs, some are very good for chemical but they all just inhale air. What we did is we designed and printed what are essentially nostrils that plug onto this thing And then by doing a set by moving your vapor we were able to, on average, improve the detection by roughly a factor of 16 to 18. - Whoa1 - Just by making them - We're able to see this dog breath using Schlieren imaging. I've actually done a video on this before. - This is an automotive headlamp. After that, I have a condenser lens, so it takes this light and So from there our light diverges, and it comes up and it fills our mirror. Think of these light And there are a bunch of they're straight as can be, but when they pass something of a different refractive index, which could be the heat from my hand, or a different density, which could be a gas those light rays, they shift a little bit, they shift very slightly, okay? They refract, they bend. Then they all come back. So we're coming back here, and right here we have a two-way mirror. So light can travel through but when it comes back, And if you look right And what this is doing, it is positioned exactly at I have that razor blade edge, it's able to move in and And so what I do is I cut those beams of light that and I cut 'em off, I block 'em. As I move the knife edge out, so I'm not cutting off so you basically have a it's not doing anything for you. But as I take this razor blade, and push it in, you start to see, you know, and as I take it more and get your hand in there. - Whoa, your Schlieren setup is so much better than mine. - So take a look at this. So this is in a Shadowgraph system. - Wow. little brother, okay? It's not a Schlieren a Shadowgraph. Shadowgraph is not as sensitive, okay? But it's easier to build. Look, we have a flashlight and we're already seeing - So why does this work? - What's happening is we have light, it's not as focused as I would like, but the more focus, the better. The light's coming up this way, it's passing through a hot and refractive index, and we're basically casting on the wall, which is why - These can still be used in detail. Just by looking at the in a Shadowgraph, we can actually figure out and how loud the bang was. - And there's our bullet whizzing off, it is supersonic because it You see it there? - Yep. So it's, you know, roughly just above sonic. Compare that to the There's two things that we can One is, if you compare these side to side, the Smith &amp; Wesson versus the AK47, the darkness of this line is different. This is a quieter firearm, it's not as loud, the report is not as loud. it's less pronounced. - [Matt] It's less pronounced, yep. - The hot gases released when the gun is fired expand outwards, creating a shockwave. Across this shock, the pressure, temperature, and density of the air changes rapidly. And the bigger that change, in the Shadowgraph. So you can get a sense of how loud it is by how dark that shock appears. - And then here we see our oh gosh, Mach two, - two and a half, two, three degrees, right? - You could actually measure that and calculate the Mach number. - Any object moving through air creates pressure at the speed of sound. Since this bullet is moving the pressure waves it creates into a single conical shock wave. It's like a tiny sonic boom. And you can use this to determine The sine of the angle is the to the speed of the object. There is a different which is with a laser sheet. It illuminates fine particles. So we can see the plumes of when a gun is fired. - We call this laser light sheet. And the reason is, okay, I can barely see it because I - Yep. I can only see it in the camera. - Yeah, so what's happening and we send it, we steer it All it is, is a piece of And what that does is it spreads that beam into a two-dimensional And so the way this works is whenever particles or theatrical fog cross through this sheet, they There's a lot of effort now going into understanding gunshot residue. So gunshot residue is the kind of burned and unburned propellant that occurs whenever a firearm is discharged, right? So what we're looking at and high speed cameras, is we're looking at the that's generated after a firing event. This is looking at ventilation inside an actual gun range. But look at all this. This is all gunshot with the naked eye, but is there, so you can imagine if this is five shots in a few seconds. Enormous amounts of material. A lot of this is landing on but unfortunately a lot of into the local environment. - It goes way farther than I expected. - So the question is, can we differentiate between something that's and something, say, by a two minutes later? So that this is what we're actively trying to pursue right now. So these are tools and techniques that are qualitative or but they really help And then the public security part of this, deals with trace contraband detection. We're all generating heat, right? So we all have this warm plume I'll show you. It's kind of crazy. So you seeing it there? So that is called the human thermal plume. And guess what's in that plume? - Water? - Parts of me. Skin cells. - No way. So we're shedding skin cells I forget what the number Thousands an hour-ish. So we are shedding these and it's actually not from a trace detection standpoint. - What do you mean? - Well, whenever we are whether it's drugs or explosives, it's all based on this it's called Locard's Exchange Principle. It's in forensic science. It's that every contact leaves a trace. And what that means is when there will be parts of you whether you like it or not, right? 'Cause we're all shedding and taking stuff with us. So if I'm a bomb maker, if you know, illegal fentanyl in my basement, I am ultimately contaminating And this contamination comes in the form of very, very small particles. And the chemical detection systems that we have available they can detect a single particle of say, an explosive residue. Imagine you have a bomb And you're at some kind of You're at a facility that maybe is screening things maybe you've got a sniffer, you've got a commercially and you've got 10 seconds Where do you point your device, right? These are the kinds of experiments that help us understand where We call this burping. We're burping the package. So we have some acetone in here. So wherever you burp it, you have acetone vapor coming So they're coming out in the gaps, so that gap gives you the highest chance of actually detecting You don't want to go over You don't want to go up You want to go in these corners here, where stuff is actually and outside of the box. This is some recent work we're doing. We are basically simulating So here's some talc powder, right? No big deal. I'm gonna When I open this and squeeze, I can't see anything, but are you seeing anything in the camera? - Yes. - So again, to the naked eye, we'd never be able to see this. But because the laser is we're able to see this. Let's do a little experiment where I am taking illegal substance A and pouring it into substance B. First thing I'll do, just watch when I take (tense music) Take it from here. - There is a little bit coming off, yeah. - Oh yeah. It's still going. - So just imagine, you're in a basement, and you're building stuff like this, and you don't realize that there's all this contamination spreading and landing on other surfaces in your room. And I can't talk about the numbers, but they're pretty startling. - Like there's a lot. - There's a lot. - There's a lot, yeah. (tense music) This thing's going to be full of smoke in here. You ready? - Yep. (tense music) What I really love about it allows you to visualize the - [Matt] So this is a way in the room is actually being tracked. - Oh, that's nice. - [Matt] Yep. If you look at the that is actually real-time that are being generated So that plot represents of the materials that he's working with. That's crazy, if you think about, 'cause if that's fentanyl, and that person doesn't have We add fluorescent powder so we can actually visualize The other cool part of this is that we can use a quantitative method of sampling surfaces in the house. We basically use swabbing. And it's the same idea Have you ever gone there - Yeah. a little swab and they wipe your hands. What they're doing is they're looking for these trace amounts that could be on you if you were involved in the manufacture of But that's a drone. That's looking at a drone. And the question is, 'cause you know, you get this cool prop wash, and these four propellers that are are all So the question is, can of a drone to do the sampling for us? And here's what I mean by that. If there is a suspected, you know, manufacturing facility of something, say it's a methamphetamine or fentanyl, you know, it's very, very expensive to get Hazmat crews involved. Have them come, they have to to a potential really dangerous situation. What if we had a drone? We just flew the drone in, right? It buzzes around and it's got on the belly of the drone of the drone to stir up and then somehow inhale The drone comes back to base, you run your chemical analysis, you say, okay, the house is clean, or no, we found stuff. Okay, now it's time to pull So the big-picture idea in the back of your head the whole time is this idea of public safety and security. So that's really what happens in this lab. But underneath that kind of umbrella term, think mask research. So when the Covid pandemic hit, we kind of switched gears in of the issues related to masks. This thing will actually that human happens to be me. So I measured my own and then built a system, kinda engineered a pneumatic but it also has a fog So this thing basically just of a cigarette and exhaled. What's kind of cool with this is it looks like there's nothing But there is millions and millions of particles trying to make it through. Some do, 'cause it's not 100%. So I wrote an image-processing code. So you take this information, and it analyzes, based on pixels and it's and sure enough, if you use an N95, you put an N95 on here, you run it through an guess what percentage of - 5%? - 5%. - Okay. to breathe naturally. So when you're inhaling, it gets dark. And when you're exhaling, it gets lighter, because the air is being and then coming back out. - Like it's interesting the effect of the breathing in, like just makes it go dark so quickly. - But that shows me that, like this now doesn't change color at all. So this is being used I notice the color - Yeah. - With this, you know, it was in and out. - I feel like that's - [Matt] Yeah. So the it is gonna be greater. - I feel like there's a lot coming out over the top. there's a lot. If you just breathe naturally, you'll see a lot coming out there. - The thing with masks, right, is like, initially they were don't wear a mask. And then they were like, masks do work, like, and wear a cloth mask, and then they were like, no, like, I don't know, there around masks. - What we learned early on you know, mask effectiveness right? And so that's kind with the Schlieren. The truth is, the average and read a scientific journal article. But they will sit down and of me coughing with a mask on and off. And that's what we did. It's kind of a unique relationship we have with other federal agencies here. So you have a three-letter for something, right? In the security arena. What they'll often do is and they'll say, hey, we're really interested for explosives for whatever reason, right? So what we do here, and is we figure out what are for explosives? What are some not so good ways, right? What do the measurements need to look like to evaluate a shoe-sampling system that doesn't even exist yet? And then what do the that support those measurements, right? And so we figure all this package it up nice and neat, give it back to the sponsoring agency, and then they take it to industry. And industry already has a of these kinds of systems, because we did a lot of the Because with the success of, you know, doing the Covid-related visualization, we're realizing now that for this kind of technology is huge. Indoor air quality. You can imagine a bigger at two people interacting with each other, and what that transfer looks like from one person to the other. The take-home message is a critical tool that to really help understand It's one thing to do quantitative analysis on various surfaces, but now we can see, we can actually see what's happening, and where these particles are generated. - Thanks to Lutron for of this video. Perfect lighting isn't just important for visualizing air flow, it's also essential for making cozy and safe. And with the sponsor of this you can easily set up You know, Caseta provides including switches, remotes which allow you to from anywhere in the house. What I love about smart switches is that one switch can So you can effectively just by replacing the switch. And installation is easy. First, make sure you turn and then disconnect the existing wires, and connect them to Caseta's Smart Switch. If you need any help, they're And then with the Smart Hub, you can turn your lights on Or you can use another device, like Alexa or Google Assistant. Caseta works with more smart home brands than any other smart Plus their switches don't rely on Wi-Fi, so they always stay connected, and you always have I personally like setting for example the lights by themselves in the evening. And this gives me peace of mind that my family will always And the best part of it all I can just check which and turn them off without Learn more about Caseta at Thanks to Lutron for sponsoring