99.9 repeating percent agree, 0.9 repeating equals 1. If because I said you can go ahead and Maybe you're like, one, that's this 0.9 Otherwise, on to reason number See, it's weird, because when in most contexts we mean like 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. In the sense then, the 9.9 repeating may wouldn't say you have 9.9 in the same way you had 9.75 lords a leaping Lords, leaping or otherwise, So what does this 0.9 repeating is the same as 1? It looks pretty different, but that a 1/2 equals 0.5. They have the same value, You can philosophize is the loneliest number, 0.78 but there's no that they have the same value, is exactly as long as 10 plus or 99.9 repeating So reason 2 is not a proof, but Numbers that look different Another example of this equals negative 0. Reason 3. 0.9 repeating is a decimal See, if you want that number infinitesimally and let's face it, some writing down the wrong number That number infinitely is a number, but it's not 0.9 OK, let's do more 3.9 for reason 3.9 repeating. According to this 3.9 repeating is 4. First step, say 0.9 Then multiply each side by 10. Third, subtract 0.9 repeating equals x, which we subtract So 9.9 repeating minus And 10x minus x is 9x. Divide by 9, and x, which you might notice There's no tricks here. It's simple multiplication, by 9, which are all allowed When something is inconsisten-- we just throw it out For example, in algebra you get this problem where I mean, if you want to say but your algebra sucks. Normal, everyday the one they shove down the only algebra, doesn't So it stays consistent and We also could have shifted multiplying by 100 to prove bottles of beer on the wall, Take one down, pass it around, All right, moving Reason number 5, If anyone ever thinks they they don't, because just add 1, and it's even bigger. Infinity, though, you can add 1 to to Adding 1 is an algebra thing Subtracting doesn't work either. Infinity bottles of is still infinity When we did this decimal unlike un-infinitely no last 9 that got shifted Infinite 9s plus infinite 9s, the kind that makes infinity and makes that proof work. If you're the type of person who with the idea that 9.9 you might also feel should be infinity. And, as it turns out, there is besides elementary That's right, mathematicians a long time ago. But elementary algebra If you allow infinity in your you get contradictions. Infinity may not but it is a number, Hyperreals, like infinity follow different rules. And while algebra some people thought and you should be And so they figured get something like calculus. Reason 6. Take the number 1, and It's pretty clear but you might be there's some sort of Let's write that down Of course, if the 0 then you never get to the leave off the number. Thus the difference between There is no difference. Here's another &quot;there's Remember how the next higher What's the next The game, is for any number you I can find one that's Of the many delightful is that for any two numbers, there's still an infinite and an infinite amount and so on. There is no next higher Likewise, there's no If 0.9 repeating and 1 were there would have to be between them. If you can't name a number but lower than 1, it can only If you don't like it, and learn about hyperreals, That's a system a number that's infinitely But even weirder, more numbers that are Anyway, on to reason number Take 0.3 repeating, a Multiply it by 3. Obviously, by definition, 3/3 is 0.9 repeating, which you The only assumption here is Maybe you don't like in general, which number 9, this sum of an 9/10 plus 9/100 plus 9/1000. And we can sum this But I can see why you It recalls Zeno's paradoxes. How can you get across have to walk halfway, and Or, how can you shoot an arrow needs to go halfway, but it needs to go half of half of half of of half of half of Therefore, it can never Anyway, it's 1/2 plus 1/4 plus to get 1. Each time, you fall short of 1. So how can you ever do anything? Luckily, infinity I mean, that's of infinity, a numbers so no matter how many steps you do, This way of writing numbers with or with a bar over is a shorthand for an be 9/10 plus 9/100, Or 3/10 plus 3/100, No matter how many it will always be less than be less than infinity 3s. Infinity is what gets us The binary equivalent of 0.9 That's exactly 1/2, plus That's how we know a dotted, half note equals a whole note. The ultimate reason that is because it works. It's consistent, just like 1 and just like 1 divided by Mathematics is about making up And it takes great creativity The only difference is that if you don't follow in mathematics, people you're wrong. Some rules give you elementary and these rules can't tell repeating and 1, just like between 0.5 and 1/2, or I hope you see now that the equal 10 is simply un-- If you started this I h-- 7.9 repeating that 7.9 you're thinking, oh, High 4.9 repeating! If you're having math problems, I got 98.9 repeating problems, Here's the moral of the story. The idea of a number infinitely is not stupid or wrong, but and interesting. The true mathematician can't do that&quot; as a challenge. If someone tells you number from a smaller number, If someone tells you can't to get a negative number, If someone tells you can't together to get 0, or raise one of another and get 0, say, I'll do both at And if you ignore that numbers aren't and that inventing fake numbers and then actually try to figure know, you've got which besides being just happen to be to describe the wave equation