- All right, so this is the Humane AI Pin. It is a brand new product, and a really, really of an ultra futuristic wearable computer. So in a time of all these and wearable glasses, it's so sick that we get so many genuinely new first to give a shot. Unfortunately, it's also I think I've ever reviewed, There's just so many things bad about it. It's so bad, in fact, that I think it's actually to like understand what as we go through it. So I'm gonna have to separate First, I'm gonna tell you what it is, and what it's supposed to do, and then I'll tell you what my experience has actually been using it. (mellow instrumental music) So this thing is a with an AI inside, that can help you throughout your day. It's about the size of a large watch. It has a camera and a microphone, and can interact with But in case you can't use that as input, there's also a touch pad with this super new with the projection on your hand. It costs $700, plus... A $24 a month subscription plan for the data that comes with it, and all the services and But yeah, $700, plus a subscription. It's already a fun start. So one of the big things off the top is, this does not pair to This is its own standalone device, with its own internet connection, with its own phone number. And so this little AI assistant just goes everywhere with and that's... You can choose how much alongside your smartphone. So you know, on its face, maybe that's kind of Like the idea is you it answers questions, it or personalized recommendations, or helps you out with things, like brainstorming or remembering things. It can make phone calls, A ton of stuff. The unfortunate reality though, is this thing is too much of a pain to use to actually want to do most of that stuff alongside your phone. But we'll get there. (mellow instrumental music) All right, let me actually This little thing, the is actually impressive. Like genuinely, I think if to feel like you're the hardware packaging actually Like this pin is solid, it's There's three colors, actually. There's all matte black, Or for a hundred bucks more, you can get white or that I'm using. And then there's a lot of There's a camera, there's there's a tiny class 2 laser projector. So this whole thing is And then the magnets also are super strong. So the back of this pin It's another battery. So it's got its own internal battery, but then once you attach it cleverly, through your It makes a nice sound when you do. And that's how you get it attached. So you get two of these boosters. And since there's the internal battery, you can literally hot swap between them so the thing stays alive. Very clever. And then it also comes with and also very, very So you can pop it in there, keep it topped off. That charges by USB Type-C. This thing is nice. And it also comes with this where you can magnetize in the battery, or the whole thing. The pin and the booster at the same time. So that is a lot of charging and battery related accessories, but they all come with it. And this pin, you know, it's also got these that light up anytime And there's also a small for when there's So between the weight of the parts and the strength of the magnets, like you can tell that a lot of effort was put into the which I very much appreciate. It's the best part of the pin, by a lot. (mellow instrumental music) Okay, I want you to forget in your pocket for a second. Like just for a minute, just Ignore it, right? This little pin can do a lot So again, think of this that's like by your side, So, you can ask it things. It doesn't have a wake word, it only turns the mic on and So you can go... (AI Pin beeps) How tall is the Empire State Building? (AI Pin beeps) And then when you let go, it starts sending that The- - [AI Pin] The Empire State Building is 1,454 feet tall to the tip. - The Cloud. And then gets you an And it also is multimodal. So that means it can look at the camera, and see things, and interact So... (AI Pin beeps) Look and tell me what you see. (AI Pin beeps) So it'll scan the room, That little noise was it sending AI image to the Cloud, analyzing it, getting it back, then deciding what to tell me. - [AI Pin] You are sitting in front of a camera and a laptop. The camera is on a tripod The laptop is open, and There are three pictures of There is a window to There is a boom mic on There is a red carpet on the floor. - Great. The camera can also take pictures, or up to 15 second videos, which it auto uploads while charging. It can also remember things And all these things will So it's like this online web portal for all things connected to the pin. There's no app, it's just the website. So there, you can see a whole and texted, and what you've listened to, and what answers it gave to and all the things you It is pretty well-rounded. I think probably its best is the translate back and forth. You got a two finger (AI Pin beeps) (Marques speaks in Spanish) (AI Pin beeps) - [AI Pin] Where's the library? - So it auto detects the language, and the person who speaks as long as you hold on the Pretty cool. This is all voice stuff though. So if at any point you're in a loud area, or a very private area, and you don't wanna interact that's where this projector comes in. So it seems crazy, but and then you just hold your and it becomes a projector screen for the laser projector So it takes a little practice, but eventually you get used in just the right spot, and then the UI gets mini screen on your hand. So you basically use your hand, try to be as flat as possible, and then to interact with it, there are some movement gestures. So there's a time of flight sensor that keeps track of movement, and you move your hand around kind of like rolling a marble around in then pinch to select. You can then make a fist to go back, and then you literally push forward to move deeper into a menu. So this is like a 3D UI you have to learn. This is obviously very but I think to be fair, I think if you get a you kind of already have When you first connect you can unlock it, and is like this... Move your hand through space It's literally like moving back and forth through a Rolodex of real numbers. So it's one of those like where the first time you see it, you kind of just get it, and it clicks. Even if it is a little fidgety, and a little bit inaccurate But that gets us into the review. (mellow instrumental music) So, unfortunately... This thing is bad at basically all the time. Where do I even start? So I guess first of all, okay, it's supposed to just It can kinda do that sometimes, because most of these requests go to the Cloud and come back, and there's just a long wait. And two, it's often wrong, because AI still can hallucinate, and there are still issues with it just not understanding correctly, or just saying the wrong thing. And that's not even if you have a poor internet connection, which happens to me all So when they do most of the demos, like on their websites they'll ask a question, and keep talking to fill the silence, so it's not awkward as and realize how long it is. But even on this fast studio wifi here... (AI Pin beeps) Who designed the Washington Monument? (AI Pin beeps) - [AI] Finding designer. The Washington Monument was a prominent 19th century from South Carolina. The construction was - Okay. So you can just hold your hand up to put your answer on your hand, and interrupt that it's talking so much. But even that was like a for the AI Pin. In ideal, fast wifi conditions. But there are many, many times when I feel like it's way slower, and it seems like it goes to the internet for almost everything. I mean there's a few queries I guess might be local, like... (AI Pin beeps) What time is it? (AI Pin beeps) - [AI Pin] 11:42 AM. - Like that's pretty fast. If I ask the battery life, it can tell me that pretty fast. But it feels like is just shoveling it off to the Cloud, not computing on the device, But it's also just wrong all the time. Like, I remember asking it when the next eclipse I asked it, &quot;What's some And over and over again it thought I said, &quot;What's the best ash?&quot; For some reason? When is the next Nets game? (AI Pin beeps) - [AI Pin] Finding next Nets game. The next Brooklyn Nets game but no specific opponent - I just Googled it. It says it's the 76ers, (AI Pin beeps) What's the traffic to the (AI Pin beeps) - [AI Pin] Finding direction. Use the voice command feature of AI Pin to ask for traffic information to the Empire State Building, and it will provide you - I did? This stuff happens all the time. But then, speaking of battery life... Really bad. (Marques laughs) And inconsistent, which is annoying. So, it's already kind of bad enough that you have another device, that you also have to But with this, it's You have to constantly and swap out boosters and keep it charged So like I said before, you get two of these and I've had a pin nuke through in two hours, while not I've also had it last like four hours while doing a whole bunch of, you know, photos and videos and And it's also just like constantly warm the whole time. Just all the time. Which is a little bit concerning. I'll also say, multiple I've had it just overheat and tell me to wait a I think the heat problem is also amplified because of the gap is between the booster and the product, that it is actively, inductively charging. You know, it is a lot of but wireless charging is and loses energy via heat, and that's what's happening So just the fact that it's warm, just this warm puck on my chest all day, was just enough to never quite Well, that and the weight. Look, it's well-made, like I said, it's really impressive hardware, but it's just a little... I mean, you see that little sag? It's just a little too heavy, in the same way that Vision When you're wearing the thing, you just wanna make it It's why a lot of this So when you decide to go it's just a little too heavy. I feel like Humane in they've got all these thick so it doesn't really pull But if you wear some lighter especially when it gets warm outside, this is really gonna start to be noticed. And yes, there are some that are lighter weight, but you never quite forget about it. This pin cannot set a timer. This pin cannot set an alarm. This notification light they it's there and it works, but it is basically out of my so I almost never see it. And you know, they also chose which means it's designed to be worn on this half of the body, which is fine, and you but that's also exactly in the US anyway. So, not their fault, just another annoying The photos look pretty bad, and the videos look even worse. They're square-ish in and they max out at 15 seconds. The hub that everything just randomly stops working, and I have to refresh it The projector... As impressive as a technical it's just not very readable. It's not particularly bright outdoors, and it gets dimmer the because of physics. And unless I knew what I really can't read very much. And... (Marques chuckles) There are no apps. There just are no apps. So when you first sign up you get to sync with four accounts. There are your Apple, So the first three are and then the last one, Tidal So there is no Uber access, there is no Spotify access, there's no calendar, no It's just... I can't book a flight, I It just will not do any of that stuff that I just do on my phone. (mellow instrumental music) So I know I've said like and the problems this device has, but I really genuinely this pin is going to have, is that smartphones are kind of OP. The number one thing I've reminded myself from the week of using this pin, trying to get it to do stuff, is that smartphones are not And I think a lot of the comments online have already picked up on this, even without testing and okay, there seems like a lot of overlap between what this is and But everything that this pin does, a modern smartphone and easier and in higher quality, and just better in every way. Like your smartphone obviously takes better pictures and videos, and you can frame things more easily. Of course, a phone can call You can use it in more private places, use it Also, a phone, like you it's faster to message people back. And of course, it can email people, and use all kinds of app experiences. Do you know what happens send someone a picture from the AI Pin? You already know how With the AI Pin, okay, then you either try this with your voice, or you pull up the picture, which is just a green I guess that's a good You go to send it, you pick your contact, or type in the whole phone Eventually, you go to send, and it has its own internet connection, and it sends a link to view the picture in the Humane web portal. Like the difference in how easy, how frictionless that is here versus here, it's not even close. And there are honestly many times where I'd be trusting this pin, like I'm reviewing it, I'm using it, and I'd ask it something, and I would wait so long, and my phone would just where I could just pick it in the time it takes me to get hopefully the right answer on the pin. It's just... Phones are OP. (AI Pin beeps) Look and tell me what this is. (AI Pin beeps) Or I'll just do this, I guess. Ah... It's a Cybertruck. - [AI Pin] The photo is of a Cybertruck. An electric pickup - Yup. Also, I gotta say, when like screens in your hand. So sick. Just for the last like 10% of any UI, like you can get almost all the way there with just your voice interaction. But let's say you call an Uber, and you say, &quot;Take me to Even if it could do that, which it can't, but let's say it could. And as you're waiting, you're like, &quot;I'm gonna just go grab a snack from this Starbucks on the corner.&quot; How do you adjust your Ugh. Just that friction of, I could just do it in Or buying something online is another one. I've seen a lot of demos &quot;Plan me a trip to Europe. Plan me an expedition.&quot; I don't even wanna buy because I need to check all and make sure I'm ordering the right one. I do not trust that with just my voice. But I think most critically, I actually love the idea that you can talk to like a human. Like this is something with Google Assistant, and Siri and Alexa. And now with this new a little AI in a box that maybe that can deliver even But the thing about a good assistant is it needs to know everything about you. That's even true with a human assistant. Like, it needs to know your schedule, it needs to know where you go every day, it needs to know who you talk to, who your preferences are Like it needs to know And your smartphone already But this is a standalone device that doesn't talk to your phone, and so it doesn't know any that your phone knows. So just from that, it's already at such for the smartphone for being helpful. I mean, you can do what I did. Fully immerse yourself and tell it to remember everything, and call people, text people from it, but it will always have that gap. And that's not even it has its own phone number, and so if you text people yeah, it can summarize all of and all that stuff from but it doesn't see any So if you're texting here, this is not the same thread. That gap is always gonna be there. So I guess that begs the question, why didn't they just make Everyone has a phone. That's the question that I think a lot of people are wondering. And I think... This is my theory, but I to eventually be a very powerful And in order to get it to that future, they can't set the precedent now of connecting it to your they have to remove that and they don't wanna do that. So this device as it exists today is hamstrung by its ideal It's like Vision Pro. Like I talked about it It doesn't actually pair It's its own standalone computer. And of course, Apple sees down the road, that could just be like a You don't need an iPhone to use that. But now, today, this thing is a victim of its future ambition. (mellow instrumental music) It was really hard to come up but I will say, at one point, my working title for this was, &quot;This product is either or I'm an idiot.&quot; Because yes, it's really, But every once in a I would use it, and it would do exactly what and I'd get it. And I'd really feel like that's and I'd do another request, and it would remind me of reality. But here's an example, right? I've said a thousand times, like, my best ideas, golden rule, they always show up when Like when I'm about to fall asleep, or I'm in the shower, or driving, right? So I'm using the pin, I'm driving to the studio I'm not trying to write while driving or pull over, but I had the pin, so (AI Pin beeps) &quot;Remind me of this cool ABC outro idea for the Humane review.&quot; (AI Pin beeps) And I just kept driving. And it wrote it down, and it saved it. - [AI Pin] Saving memory. - And when I go check the Humane- - [AI Pin] The outro idea has been saved. - The voice is kind of annoying. But now that's up in the Humane AI Center, so when I arrive at the studio, that thing that I told it to remember, is sitting there waiting for me. That was nice. Or the other thing, the I could put it in the center I would never want to taking a video, but you know, even though the quality's not great, that's the most frictionless along with smart glasses. That's great. And I think number one, is if you ask me like, &quot;Who should buy this device right now?&quot; I mean, nobody should buy But if there's one person it's the person that wants to spend as little time as possible Like as little time as And that's me sometimes. I don't wanna doom scroll the second I pull my For that person, if they want that at the this device represents just a glimmer of hope for that future. Now the problem, of course, there's just so much more and annoyance that comes with it, that you don't wanna do it, even though you would accomplish the goal of less screen time and But yeah, that's the issue with it. I literally had a moment, like we did a shoot in Ohio the other day, which was like a travel day. And I woke up in the &quot;I don't want to deal Like I have driving, so the and then we're gonna go to the airport, and then probably gotta take it off through the metal detector which means I have to log Just all this, and I just was like, &quot;I don't wanna have to Like , I don't wanna wear it today.&quot; So I skipped it. And you should probably And never buy a product based on the future Obviously, this is a product and there's a team behind it. And look, I gotta say, and a team trying to make something new... That, I respect. I respect the attempt. Because we don't get a But yeah, this has a long way to go. They do have a roadmap, actually. I'll say. They've shared it. There's some decent stuff on there, including number sharing, but that also has no date So I'll just say, good luck. Godspeed. Thanks for watching. Catch you in the next one. Peace. (calming steel drum music fades)