Remember these enemies from Mario Odyssey? Did tunes when you go near them? Or when you played references not only Breath of the Wild's story, Nintendo often hides little secrets and Easter up 7 of my favourite of these musical secrets. Number 1 The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild. At the sleep, only to meet this mysterious old man, But before long, the old man reveals his Hyrule. And take a listen to the musical jingle If you've played A Link to the as it is the Hyrule Castle theme from the game. Which makes total sense, as Hyrule Castle is In other words, the music from this scene at the same time he reveals it to the player! Number 2 Super Mario Odyssey from 2017. One of the coolest version of New York. And the mayor of this city Donkey Kong, back in 1981. Bringing her back as seeing as this whole city is themed around that she'll mention that it's her birthday. And your New Donk City, various presents are scattered plays when you pick up one of these presents. Now game, that might sound familiar. It's actually item! Here's the sound in Super Mario Odyssey is a really neat way of subtly reminding the Number 3 the topic of Super Mario Odyssey, we have another world select menu, where you pick which Take a listen to the music that plays on And then, listen to how it sounds That's right, as you progress through Super the map screen music gradually evolves, adding journey. It's a subtle touch, but it adds to Number 4 kind of Mario game - Luigi's Mansion 3. Now, but the Easter egg we're talking about is from of the game, Luigi, Mario, Toad and Peach are luxury hotel. And when the bus arrives, you're And when you go up to the different characters in music subtly incorporates their character themes! And then, listen to what happens Do you recognise that? It's Or listen when I head over to Mario instead. Now you can hear the Ground theme from Super you talk to Toad, Hellen Gravely (the game's desk of the hotel. Just thinking about how much with the lobby's chord progression makes my head how brief your time in this part of the game Number 5 there's actually another clever musical trick it's not in New Donk City, but instead the This kingdom features a really cool enemy called be found on Easter Island. Now, much like most can be taken over and controlled by Mario. And as if you listen closely you can start to hear a was actually the beginning of the Ground Take a listen to the humming again. But that's 5 different songs, though they can the Super Mario Bros Ground theme, there's Here's the original theme. Then, there's the ending Here's how the original song goes... Then, there's Gusty Garden Here's the original theme... And here's the Moe-Eye hum. And then, there's one last song. And nobody seems to know what that song is! I've listened to it again and again and online going back 4 years, where people are I've transcribed the tune as best I can. So if let me know in the comments below, because this Number 6 Super Bell Subway, you race in and around a subway course is split into two parts: the overground and really clever use of music. Let me show you. This And then, when you go underground, the music smoothly transitions into It's a really great use of adaptive music, But the reason I like this example how the underground version of the music That's right, the bassline from the underground straight out of Super Mario Bros' iconic clever use of leitmotif, which ties together the Number 7 there's another secret from Breath of the Wild have to rewind back to another Zelda game, that we're introduced to Fi, who is the spirit of the Now, according to the story of the Zelda series, Fi is actually inside the Master And in Breath of the Wild, if you listen closely, different pieces of music which revolve around So, although Fi never appears in person in this musical reference was likely included that Fi is still there, her spirit By the way, if you enjoyed I talked about another 6 Nintendo music so check out that video if you haven't seen end. Subscribe to see more little known nuggets