Well, when I got to Vietnam I literally expected to be welcomed with open arms I had in my head the black and night I had seen on the Walter of the American troops rolling and being showered with wine And as we were driving down a guy from the battalion I was at Danang and we had to drive the 20 And I, I really was disappointed that there weren't people and you know, offering I really expected to be greeted as with as though I was invisible, And that was a Moreover it was, it was they looked funny and they acted funny. I mean the first day I got there. They lived in little animals in their, in they weren't like us. They smelled bad, the whole You could smell it, it and that was disturbing. And then I was On the third day I was there, this guy who had picked a corporal who I was he and I were in the battalion We were sent down to the tractor park the, in to meet a bunch of detainees. It was our responsibility prisoners and detainees were a They were not they could be detained That's how they were, why And Jimmy and I went down there to they had a whole bunch of Vietnamese up on top. High flat-topped vehicles and as the tracks the marines up on top hurling these people off. They were bound hand and foot so that they had no way and they were old No young men and I, I couldn't believe these guys and I turned to Jimmy and said, I grabbed and said what are, what These aren't, these are, we're supposed to be And Jimmy turned to my hands on his arm, I and he said Erhard you until you know what's And I think it was at that point quite what I was expecting. It went downhill from there and again I can't even begin to explain in the all of the things but I began to understand it became obvious that the enemy was the very people in We were in a very heavily They were the enemy or at least the somewhere and we couldn't tell one from another and day after day our and we ran into snipers and and snipers and mines. I saw four armed enemy soldiers the first eight months and yet our battalion during that 75 mining and sniping over half of them This is for a unit of but there was no one and you begin to think these They're all the enemy and then you go through villages and you know, you get sniped at and so, you call an air and the whole village goes up or you go through a and you burn houses You know the common perception, the notion I heard when I was in high school was it was the Vietnamese population forced them to fight against the What I began to understand they didn't need to All they had to do was let a and whatever was left they had all the recruits I began to understand didn't greet me with open arms. Why they in fact hated me, but of course that didn't my friends were getting and the only place that you could was on those civilians And so, it was a The longer that we the more Viet Cong there were because we created None of that distilled the, the clear kind of expression What I began to understand patently clear within months here was not was What was going on here was nuts and I wanted to get out. I knew if I were still alive they'd stick me on an airplane in Danang and I could fly away and Turned out not to be quite but that was the notion and, and certainly for my last eight nine months in Vietnam I ceased to think, I quite why I was there or The sole purpose for that point was to stay alive until I could get out. Then the reason you know, the kinds of questions that began to present themselves were just, the questions and I didn't want to know the answers. it's like banging on a and the door opens slightly dark and there's loud like there's wild animals and you peer into the darkness but you can hear all You want to step into that room? No way, you just sort pull the door shut behind and that's what was going on. The questions themselves let alone if I had to Now part of what was I could not have made sense of what I was seeing and because I did not have I needed to have an understanding of the that brought us to make sense of what I was seeing. I began to acquire the during the three years or so after I but while I was there Because I kept trying to you 27 cards instead of 52 cards and and I didn't know why all I and it became, it became clear That my reasons for being I mean this notion of these invaders the people hated me. The and it was perfectly, I mean the people didn't say good people hated me. I know that other some other people's but in my own experience the Vietnamese people hated me and I I beat them, I sometimes kill I destroy their crops, I destroy their Why in the hell should And I could see that and I could see that nothing we on the war itself. Now the funny thing about I was getting Time It came in the mail I even as I sat in And I would read about what and what McNamara would say I could look around and see that aha, I don't know what war but that's not what's We actually had an incident happen stumbled upon a Viet Cong weapons and ammunition and I read in the the daily newspaper This little action actually and we read that we had back by at least four Within a week of that article appearing 10 days of the incident itself, the bridge a hundred in front of our battalion by Viet Cong sappers. An Amtrak coming in from the Horseshoe area from hit a 50-pound box mine several men were killed a A patrol out of fook several people were killed, several nobody told the Viet Cong that and yet this is what you're reading in This is what you're being told I could see that the war went interminably at the same I'm wasting your film. When I left Vietnam I was at the time, I was in the during 10th 1968 February 68 and I had been up in the city for And I knew that my I wasn't sure when we weren't thinking And we are in the middle we were exchanging fire with from us along the Eastern, the North East what was left of my about six of us. And a jeep comes along the river and compound where we were and let's go. It's a stood, I didn't I immediately began and distributed to the and said so long see got on the jeep. The last thing I they were laying down we burned our way there was a chopper I got on the bird, I was up 10 minutes after, I knew and went through I ended up... They yanked me out early by this time had and they arranged for me to spend And I got back when I got back in early March was... came in at night went through more processing place called Treasure and then I was free to go and I had, I was still I had a month's leave basically before I had to in North Carolina. And I got a taxi and there I was, my first view of I could hardly wait and it was absolute impenetrable fog. We came across the couldn't see 10 feet, got to the airport there was... Part of what affected I was happy to be alive, I was excited, but at the very ambivalent. I was I had a girlfriend and in September eight I got a dear John letter that I'd be able to fix and I did not know what kind... that girl had become the focus of She had, she had ceased to be a real and then of course she had sort And but you can't just let go of the thing that So, I was scared about all that. I didn't know what I was going Finally got back