- [Narrator] On a hot summer morning, a group of over a dozen men in shorts, t-shirts, and They could be mistaken for beach but they were not out for a swim. These were Greek secret service agents, here to arrest a man lounging on a sunbed beside his wife and two young children. After a years long investigation into the theft of nearly $50 billion, this was the moment they were waiting for. They had their man. Three years earlier, Bitcoin touching the thousand-dollar mark for the second time in just a few months, but this good news took a dark turn when investors began to cash out. 850,000 coins belonging to Mark Karpeles, the eccentric French owner, became an immediate suspect. However, at the same time, ran by completely anonymous This new platform had already caught the attention of FBI and IRS, but when one of their selling stolen funds to it, an international manhunt was launched to find the people behind it. This is the story of the and it all started with - [Jed] I thought it really and I think it did, you know, until the ultimate catastrophe, but. - [Narrator] That's Jed about Mt. Gox, the worst Not just because it led to He was used to that. His first company of peer-to-peer settled for $30 million No, Mt. Gox was worse, because this time, it put his reputation on the line. See, Jed only ran it for seven months, giving away control before it took off and turned into a massive renting one of the most Some people think its rapid growth after his departure left him sour. Sour enough to make him to the theft of millions Worse, in the years Bitcoin would skyrocket in value, bringing the amount intensifying the anger of the thousands of But when Mt. Gox halted trades in the early months of 2014, The signs of trouble since the summer of 2010 Sometimes, people blamed on Jed's incompetence but back then, Bitcoin was - [Jed] I think people have a hard time contextualizing what it was like back then when you think of what Bitcoin's like now. I mean, it was just very unclear that Bitcoin would be a success at all, that anybody would ever care of like 2,000 people on this forum. And the whole way I made on a lark, almost, just about how Bitcoin worked. It wasn't like it was ever intending to be this massive business - [Narrator] It had started Jed had even reused the domain from one of his long defunct for the card trading game - [Jed] You know, 'cause at that point, Bitcoin was still so early. I didn't want to go think of - [Narrator] But despite the website was an immediate hit within the small community of Bitcoiners. It provided a central, easy place to trade the coin for fiat currency. - [Peter] Do you remember when you started work on it? Like, could you even - [Jed] You couldn't really people were just trading on It first opened on Mt. Gox, or something like that, that's like where the - [Narrator] Its model laid the groundwork for what is the modern Beforehand, Bitcoins were hard to get. You either had to mine them, or find someone willing to trade them and then, worse, communicate with them. Mt. Gox made it easy, took but as the months went on, Bitcoin kept growing in popularity, and, likewise, more and for the exchange. - [Jed] I mean, I did think in that small community. I didn't know that that orders of magnitude over the I definitely didn't think a huge percentage of Bitcoin - [Narrator] But this rapid growth brought its own set of problems. Jed initially added PayPal to the site as the premier payment system, but there was a rampant - [Jed] Which I knew would happen, but mainly I just thought to have, again, the easy on-ramp for fiat, and then I was just gonna Like, it's worth it, it's almost Like, you just get people It's more important than - [Narrator] PayPal After just a few months, they from using their service. This left Liberty Reserve for buying and selling except there was a problem with the setup. Hackers found, when they could manipulate the data by exploiting a vulnerability in the way Mt. Gox set The code on Mt. Gox was Like changing the amount on a bank check after it's been written but hackers could inject and the system then blindly allowing the hackers than they ever had in their balance. By the time Jed caught and fixed this, Mt. Gox had already and this is when he knew he needed help. - [Jed] Well, I only ran it for less than maybe like six months before I handed it over But yeah, it was clear that security was and we needed more people to look at that, and that's one of the reasons (gentle dramatic music) - I did receive a lot of death threats. I lost basically any while running Mt. Gox. - [Narrator] On a cold Mark Karpeles, a French developer, woke up to an email from a past client. Jed asked him to keep the content secret. He was contemplating selling Mt. Gox, and didn't want the news to cause a panic. He asked if Mark was interested considering he had previously implementing complex banking APIs and was long involved with Mark wrote back, although he was only running a He didn't have a huge budget. At the time, Mt. Gox was projected to do around a hundred thousand If sold, it would've been and Mark couldn't afford it. He expected this would be but to his surprise, just this time with a sweetheart deal that would change both of their lives: Mt. Gox for zero upfront cost. They would share revenue for six months, and afterwards, Jed would retain a 12% revenue share indefinitely. Mark was taken aback, for such a good deal was because with the $50,000 Liberty Reserve debt. The two agreed to start the but just at the end of that process, right when Mark took full The first Bitcoins are - [Jed] There was, I where we both had access to the box, so like the actual site so I could show him what was going on, and during that time is and stole Bitcoins. - [Narrator] 80,000 Bitcoins from the Bitcoin client had been transferred Jed was the first to notice, sent Mark a message on Skype, letting him know of the bad news. - It went missing mostly at around the same time Jed sent - [Jed] So we both had control. It was during the handover, but I had already, like, the site already belonged to him, like, I had already sold it to him. - [Narrator] The stolen coins of all customer deposits. At the time, they had a This was a significant they couldn't determine the culprit. Whoever it was had meticulously The news of this hack was not made public. Jed suggested that Mark using the site's future taking out an immediate loan, essentially converting the Bitcoin debt into a more stable dollar debt. - Because I already and there was a full indemnification I couldn't really bring this up anywhere, so my best shot at this was - [Narrator] Some have took these coins after the because, well, that he was completely liable but looking at their chat logs from the day this was At this point, Jed still had full control over the rest of the customer If the heist was staged for personal gain, this would've been a Furthermore, the stolen coins Their resting place is now the seventh largest which, at Bitcoin's peak in 2021, were worth a staggering $5.2 billion. Either the thief has permanently or fears that spending any But this theft was not the one that led to the collapse of Mt. Gox. No, that theft would be Mark was just getting started. After these coins went missing, Mt. Gox, with its 3,000 users, was already teetering on meaning if everyone attempted the site would come up short. Talk about a bad start, but Mark pressed on, Mt. Gox But to Jed, one thing was Mark wasn't the right person and this is when things Just three months later, from under $1 all the way up to 16, and the user base And this is when the platform suffered its first publicly known breach. 25,000 Bitcoins, then value at $400,000, had been stolen from Four days later, disaster strikes again. The Mt. Gox database containing and encrypted passwords While still fighting the a hacker managed to access which still existed for him to audit and verify his revenue share percentage. With the permissions of the to assign themselves an but they encountered a roadblock. Mt. Gox had a daily withdrawal cap, no more than a thousand so, unable to transfer the they had an idea. If they could crash the price of Bitcoin, they would be able to and so they orchestrated Hundreds of thousands of dropping its value from $17.50 all the way down to a mere 1 cent within the span of 30 minutes. - [BitcoinChannel Host] we're down to 9 cents, 6 cents. Wow. Mt. Gox shows the crash at -1.8. - [Narrator] With the price so low, the thief was able to getting away with roughly 2,000 coins. - [BitcoinChannel Host] I may end up pulling my Bitcoins off We may be looking at some It may not have to do with Bitcoins, it may actually have to - [Narrator] This was massive news. Everyone in the community This led to the site being while they rolled back the Mark wrote on the announcement that they intended to but no user balances were He goes on to criticize the thief, essentially calls them amateur, and, you know what, he's kind of right. Whoever it was got greedy. Had they just taken how long would it have At the very end, he gave an apology for the chaos that had taken Quote, &quot;The truth is that for Bitcoin's explosive growth. Our dated system was built as a hobby when Bitcoins were worth pennies a piece. It was not built to be a Fort Knox capable of securely handling millions of dollars in transactions each day.&quot; You'd think that all of these together would have ruined the but it really didn't. Two years later, Bitcoins had and the exchange had (ominous music) - [Jed] The site was hacked. They said, okay, hey, what time Like, get this going or whatever. And Mark was like, oh, it's And they're like, what? (laughs) And everybody's freaking out, there's literally just nothing and people's money's stuck there. It's just stuff like that, have the right mentality - [Narrator] 2013, Mt. Gox dominated. On an average day, to trade a staggering 150,000 coins, equivalent at the time to They were now handling 70% of all Bitcoin transactions in the world, but it was set to be the worst year yet in the company's history. Mt. Gox wanted desperately but the notorious dark was tainting the opinion It was the currency of criminals, and being based in Japan only so when CoinLab, a US-based with a deal to handle all it was too good to resist. Mt. Gox gave them 5 million big ones to jumpstart their operations, however, a wrench was just months after signing the contracts. The FinCEN finally announced classifying Bitcoin exchanges as money transmitter businesses. Here's the thing, you've if you run any type of financial business, because the FinCEN is worried about things like money laundering, fraud, and other sorts of financial crimes. It's a notoriously let alone for a Bitcoin exchange in 2013. It wasn't gonna happen. - Our first thing was to contact CoinLab and to ask them what and what was their plan to comply. Their initial response that, well, licensing is not Well, the guidance was and our lawyers were not convinced, but whatever CoinLab said, we offered them to continue working with them, and we needed them to on how they planned to comply, and a few months later, I they just filed a lawsuit against Mt. Gox. - [Narrator] Mt. Gox without the license, rightfully so, that was a big risk, but CoinLab didn't like that. They decided to file a claiming a breach of while pocketing the initial 5 million. Then, throughout summer, the site started facing Users were hit with significant delays when trying to withdraw funds in dollars, fueling speculation regarding the exchange's But Mt. Gox users were used to the abuse, so they remained hopeful, to complications with because the Department had just seized an additional accusing them of submitting on a regulatory form. In the middle of this chaos, to leak stories of inept management, claiming the inner including the code running While his company was going up in flames, Mark was purportedly engrossed in establishing a Bitcoin cafe, drawing inspiration from An insider reported that Mark had already invested but given the state of this seemed more of a distraction The cafe was set to open in March of 2014, but this would never happen. - It is my opinion that If you have any accounts that you move it out. Do not leave money there. - [Narrator] February 7th, for any crypto enthusiast. Bitcoin had recently hit and was already on the uptrend again. Even the most devoted Bitcoin supporters couldn't resist the and sell some of those coins and get a taste of their profits. Except there was a problem, they couldn't. Mt. Gox had, out of nowheres, A news post claimed obtain a clear technical view stating that Bitcoin malleability had affected their operations. Quote, &quot;A bug in the Bitcoin for someone to use the Bitcoin network to alter transaction like a sending of Bitcoins did not occur when in fact it did occur.&quot; But many of Bitcoin's were not buying this narrative. One person wrote on Twitter, &quot;It's a bug in their handling Another wrote, &quot;It means 10 days on, and, with Mt. Gox puts out another statement. They're supposedly working but they're tight-lipped about when or even if withdrawals would be back up. Meanwhile, Bitcoin's value For many, Mt. Gox was the face of Bitcoin. Their trust was shaken. The very idea of Bitcoin as News outlets were buzzing, the spotlight was firmly on Mt. Gox, with its questionable history of security finally under the microscope. But then, February 23rd rolled around, and the events took an even weirder twist. Mark abruptly stepped down from his role in the Bitcoin foundation, and then the company's entire But these were nothing that was about to drop. An internal document that almost 750,000 Bitcoins and an additional 100,000 of the company's personal coins were gone. Almost 7% of the total at the time had vanished and nobody knew who took them. The missing crypto at the In today's value, a staggering 50 billion. This is by far the largest Things couldn't get any worse for Mt. Gox. Not only was it insolvent, but there were now hundreds of users who were crypto millionaires, all desperate to get their The first person to take the fall for the theft would be Mark, and he was going to need an entire army to fight off his angry creditors, so it's a good thing the sponsor of today's video is &quot;War Thunder&quot;, the most comprehensive &quot;War Thunder&quot; offers a and strategies through dynamic, With more than 2,000 planes, helicopters and ships, you won't find any missing assets here. Instead, you get to enjoy and detailed damage models in gaming. Vehicles suffer actual damage and the x-ray shows you A little hint, aim for the fuel tank. And imagine if Mark, with all had the clarity of &quot;War to either plot his With &quot;War Thunder&quot;, not only do you get these crystal clear visuals, but they're paired with that pull you right into the battlefield. You're always in control, no unlike Marky boy. And me personally, just like with the collapse of Mt. Gox, in &quot;War Thunder&quot;, I've after sinking over 100 I play as this tiny Italian tank and completely cover it in bushes. They never see me coming. Play &quot;War Thunder&quot; now for by using my link in the description to get a ton of bonuses, including multiple premium vehicles, a premium account, Claim it now, because it's Thank you, &quot;War Thunder&quot;. (mysterious music) Back on the cold streets of Tokyo, Kolin Burges flew from London if he could withdraw his - Well, they haven't answered They've seemed to have they've taken my money. I'm pretty annoyed about that, try and find out what's going on, hopefully speak to the CEO or speak to someone who - [Narrator] This video Kolin became the face for a with people accusing from embezzling funds some of them even going as But despite the noise, no one or who now possessed the in missing coin. As March rolled in and the cherry blossoms prepared to bloom, hinting at new beginnings Mt. Gox was in the news again, by filing for bankruptcy protection in both Japan and the US. The Tokyo Court appointed as the trustee of the Mt. The first thing that Kobayashi did was launch an investigation Little did he realize, he was about to kick off a global manhunt that would span several years. Meanwhile, this was a golden opportunity for the competitors of Mt. Gox. There was now a surplus of users looking for a new exchange to call home. Many surged to BTC-e, an as Mt. Gox itself. However, this spelled issues for law enforcement around the world. Unlike other platforms, BTC-e was known for not following anti that were standard to the industry, providing a haven for those keen on skirting the edges of the law. Numerous illicit funds to ransomware payments often Even the location of was a complete mystery. The website alluded to Chinese origins, but listed a Russian telephone number. The domains traced back to shell companies in France, New Zealand and For law enforcement, Mt. Gox and cash-out point that linked crypto with its pseudo-anonymous but unlike Mt. Gox, BTC-e didn't comply with subpoena requests It was a black hole. This is a problem the FBI knew intimately, because in October of 2013, just after taking down Silk Road, it came to light that two had used their position to steal Bitcoin. Shaun Bridges transferred then valued at $350,000. Carl Force had pocketed with portions of that cashed out via this mysterious exchange. But being unable to about these transactions for the FBI to build a case The situation helped spur an investigation directly into who was behind BTC-e, but the results of that were Meanwhile, another exchange was hoping to make a more legitimate - [Mental Outlaw Host] So because for some reason, they think that it's this super private, but despite what so many people mistakenly assume about Bitcoin, it's actually one of the most open and transparent currencies in existence. Literally every single transaction that has ever been made for anybody to see. - [Narrator] The founding duo of Kraken, Jesse Powell and Michael Gronager, believed that aiding in could be their ticket ultimately emerging as So in late November, 2014, they found themselves in a meeting with the Japanese law firm committing to track down in missing coins. But Michael Gronager was actually no longer part of the Kraken team. A month earlier, he had stepped to pioneer a first-of-its-kind for the blockchain. See, because of Bitcoin's with Silk Road and now the Mt. Gox hack, Kraken had been struggling to They wanted transaction monitoring that Kraken just couldn't offer. Many of the banks believed that Bitcoin's anonymity but Michael saw this as an opportunity. He knew that the underlying actually presented an because every Bitcoin transaction is publicly recorded on the blockchain. By connecting on-chain activities with off-chain data and behaviors, Michael knew it became feasible to de-anonymize and behind Bitcoin transactions Michael intended Mt. Gox to to trace the stolen coins pro bono to find out exactly who had taken them. Following this commitment, he received a thumb drive holding all of Mt. including every trade made on the exchange during its four-year run. However, upon inspecting the data, Michael found some Many transactions were incomplete or seemed to have been erased completely. Just a few months into the investigation, he scheduled a face-to-face to get to the bottom of this, but Mark's response was He claimed that, during the 2014 hack, an unidentified individual had possibly erasing this essential data while making off with the coins. Michael sensed that Mark might not have been telling the full truth. Japanese police had already announced that they believed the yet Michael wasn't convinced that Mark had outright stolen the coins. However, he was aware of rumors that Mt. Gox had been using ultimately bolstering Such fake trades, if proven, and some speculated about to the lost funds. But by the time of this that few would expect from a thief. He had found an old format wallet that contained 200,000 Bitcoins originally thought to be lost, claiming he had overlooked this wallet because it was not used by the exchange and was stored on a different server. That's a lot of coins to forget about, and some found it questionable. To give some context, watching this video I still wouldn't even have Either way, this discovery reduced the total missing Bitcoins from Mt. Gox down to 650,000, but this wouldn't be with the Japanese police, and now, more than ever, Mark's because come August 1st, they had locked him up. If he was going to get to have to prove his innocence through the blockchain's ground truth. (mysterious music) Michael began to use his The first, using the showed a growing number The second, based on the painted a far more concerning picture. Beginning in October of 2011 after the minor hacks that the blockchain-based graph seemed to fall due to mysterious outflows of money, while the records provided to take them into account. Michael could see clear that the thefts appeared to be automated. As new coins landed in Mt. Gox addresses, they were instantly diverted There was an ever until the summer of 2013. Astoundingly, the difference - [Jed] The ultimate disaster even to me, that he basically that was drained over a couple years and he lost like 600,000 Bitcoin. Like, that is like insane, that he was just never for it to have the accurate balance, that's, like, mind blowing to me. I never expected it to die that way. I thought that he would just because he's incompetent, but. - [Narrator] Mark had placed full faith on his in-house-built reporting, solely relying on the figures never making an effort to crosscheck with the actual Bitcoin Mt. Gox, nearly since its inception, had been trading phantom Bitcoin. Numbers that only moved between user backed by no actual coins. Michael noticed that, the hackers manually shifting them around preparing them for sale. At the beginning of the hack, the stolen funds were immediately routed to the American crypto exchange TradeHill. In fact, the Bitcoin passing through the exchange was so much that eventually, it accounted of all the money traded there. However, halfway through the operation, in 2012, TradeHill was shut down, leaving the hackers to find a new option to cash out their stolen Bitcoins. Looking at the money flow, Michael noticed that the stolen coins and for someone trying to it made sense. Why not sell them at the But then a new trend started to appear inside the money flows. The Bitcoin started to pass through BTC-e. His software had worked, but he still had no idea Determined to approximate Michael analyzed the times during which the hackers and if his calculations were correct, the Mt. Gox hacker was from Russia, the only nation impenetrable and a safe haven for cyber crime. It was time for Michael (ominous music) In the case of Force and Bridges, IRS criminal investigator Tigran Gambaryan had meticulously traced the to exchanges by analyzing a tedious process During Michael's first visit to talk about his he ended up in a room with Tigran. To verify his software's capabilities, Tigran had Michael crosscheck Even in its prototype stage, his tool confirmed Tigran's Force and Bridges were guilty. This marked the start of Michael forging a close relationship with US law enforcement. Likewise, the topic of BTC-e for follow-the-money investigations had since been a hot but at the time of this meeting, neither were officially working on cracking who was behind it. This, however, was about to change. Nearly at the same time that on his investigation Tigran was tasked with such as BTC-e, that were subject to US money laundering laws. For Tigran, the first was pinpointing the location Surprisingly, the sole was CloudFlare, a that shielded the exchange's This was a big mistake. Given CloudFlare's American origins, it wasn't long before they cooperated with Tigran's legal request. What he got back was contrary to what BTC-e tried to promote. Their servers were located strikingly close to Yet this didn't surprise him. For BTC-e to provide high-speed services to its American clientele, that they'd have servers within the US. After carefully maneuvering through the complex legal processes to secure discrete access he was able to secretly Upon analyzing it, he and the respective IPs which they used to access the server via a white list to perform maintenance on the regular. However, when these IPs were investigated, they only pointed to proxy machines. The administrators had taken precautions to hide their actual locations, ensuring that they remained anonymous even to those with server access. They were sophisticated. This was more or less a dead end, but when Tigran's work started to overlap with investigations into Mt. Gox, things would get a little clearer. A New York-based team were looking into Mt. Gox's missing money at the same time as Michael and Tigran. They had consulted with Kim Nilsson, a Tokyo-based investigator who had come up with the same conclusion as Michael. The 650,000 stolen Bitcoins The New York agents learned of Tigran's access to BTC-e's backend and asked for assistance. They wanted to know the user information of the person selling those coins. What they found, none of The IP address for the account matched one of the administrator's IPs. A realization dawned Could there be a more ingenious method to launder an enormous than by starting your The hypothesis seemed outlandish. To verify this, that night, Michael had previously sent him data showing that some of the stolen listed Russian IP addresses for the traders' user information. Tigran asked Michael to double check this, and, upon learning they Tigran revealed what this confirmed. Michael, from his time co-founding Kraken, knew that having hundreds would make launching a new They now had a compelling that the person liquidating was in fact a BTC-e administrator, but the only details known that he went by the username WME. Three letters on a screen with the potential to be hiding the face of the biggest crypto thief in history. But despite how sophisticated they found an odd discovery for someone who might have WME was registered and active since October, 2011, just a month after funds started being His username stood for the name of an exchange business he had started in the early 2000s. His first posts were Curiously enough, on one of his websites, he seems to have a large amount of Liberty Reserve funds to sell. Maybe something to do with the 50K stolen while Jed was still in control, but that's just my own speculation. The investigators were concerned with the bigger scam now anyways. His posts quickly took a shift. He had a large amount of Bitcoin Digging through his post history, the investigators found exactly the type of slip-up they could only dream of. In 2012, he made this post, claiming that an Australian-based for over a hundred thousand He posted dozens and dozens of screenshots showing the Skype record At one point, the BTC-e saying he's a big trader, a show of trust that CryptoXchange Then, over a month later, He uploaded two photos of requesting the release of the funds, but, upset that his apparently WME had now made a mistake that would put his freedom on the line. While he remembered to black he overlooked redacting his name. Just like that, the that Alexander Vinnik was Upon diving deeper into they found that he had for carding, a form of credit card fraud often associated with hacker groups. This discovery made them almost certain that he was the brain behind the world's most However, as a Russian national, the task of indicting, would be almost impossible For months on end, the entire Virtual Currency led by Tigran was scouring the web for any shreds of personal information they could tie to him. Problem was, he left little to no chance. Not a single photograph, no social media, and any digital footprints using VPNs and proxies. After six months, they to one of his known accounts where he didn't have a VPN enabled masking the actual IP address. This connection was to an international luxury hotel from which they obtained a copy of his passport through a subpoena. They now had a face to the But even with that, Vinnik living in Russia. If the investigators wanted to arrest him, they needed him to feel hoping he would eventually travel abroad to a country that was more complicit with US law enforcement. But for that to happen, all had to remain completely under wraps. Michael even agreed to hide the discovery from the Mt. Gox liquidation trustees who had given him the case to investigate in the first place. Tigran and Michael thought they had solved the biggest yet they had to keep it a secret. (mysterious music) More than three years since and the investigators finally got a signal that Vinnik had set He had booked a luxury villa in Halkidiki for him, his wife and two young children, complete with a Mediterranean garden, private beach, and optional yacht tours. But while Vinnik was the US authorities in a joint operation were working hard to plan his arrest. On a hot summer morning, Greek agents dressed discreetly positioned where Vinnik and his family relaxed. At the same time, on the the feds were taking the The operation went off without a hitch. Vinnik was now under the As the headlines broke, the whole crypto world finally had a face to the mastermind behind This was great news for Mark. He had recently been released on bail after spending his 31st birthday in jail, and now this was going to of his trial in Japan. But for Vinnik, things He was now facing extradition requests from the US, Russia, and, each one of them attributing related to his involvement with BTC-e. But Vinnik was claiming to be innocent. He demanded extradition back to Russia, insisting that his involvement was only as a technician working for the website, which included handling Furthermore, to explain on arresting him, he claimed that he was the Questions about the United Were they really after him or was he a valuable pawn to With such an important case and potentially useful his defense demanded not but also someone with political influence. In this case, his defense by, among others, Zoe Konstantopoulou, a prominent Greek lawyer and politician, yet even with her expertise and influence, she couldn't shield of the Greek justice system. As weeks turned into months Vinnik remained in limbo, trapped without official charges, awaiting a decision on Worse, not long after his arrest, attempts started being made on his life, one after another, some by fellow inmates, and others the details of which Greek authorities have kept secret. The news of these fueled speculation about the crucial intelligence and who might not want it getting out. As if things couldn't get he got an unexpected She looked frail and weak, but gave a smile when he came on camera. She had been diagnosed with brain cancer. Feeling desperate, Vinnik by going on a hunger strike, hoping to be extradited back to Russia on compassionate grounds. Three months after starting, he became so malnourished that This was making headlines across Greece, this time with a video Looking visibly weak, speaking softly and kindly to the camera, he talks about the - I not know what to, what to say. - [Videographer] How many days - 88 today. - [Videographer] 88 today. And and still no answer? - Still no answer, I still and still no answer from this 88 days. Nobody answer. - [Narrator] In an attempt about Vinnik's hardships, Zoe even held a press conference regarding Vinnik's extradition, in which she stated this was for any person to be She argued this was less about justice, rather a political move to gain favor with Greece's After three years behind bars, Vinnik had still maintained his innocence, and now, being held for an unconstitutionally even the prosecutors started over their handling of the case. Vinnik's lawyers even argued that his detention violated human rights. So, come January, 2020, Greece had to make a decision. (pensive music) In an effort to navigate the demands of both the US and Russia, authorities extradited Vinnik to France. The French wanted him for trial on multiple charges of a ransomware software called Locky. Given that much of the illicit earnings from this software were they suspected he had some involvement in the group behind it. That summer, while still awaiting trial, the New Zealand police of $90 million from a company registered to Vinnik. Still, Vinnik's French disputed the accusations, as merely a low-ranking employee at BTC-e, clueless about the true identities of top level administrators Belot portrayed him as an stating, quote, &quot;He is not the big fish they make him out to be.&quot; The trial was scheduled for December, and if found guilty, could serve up to 55 a term Belot equated to a life sentence. But tragedy struck a Vinnik's wife had passed Though Vinnik pleaded with for permission to attend his his request was denied. Perhaps one of the saddest snippets of this story is how was unable to say his last goodbyes, and now his two young without either of their parents. On December 7th, the court To quote the judge, &quot;Mr. Vinnik, the court has relating to the cyber but finds you guilty of He was sentenced to five years, but they had not tried him and the US still wanted him. Come July, 2022, Vinnik Taking into account the French considered his Technically, Vinnik could especially since Russian authorities had their own set of charges for him. However, France had other plans. Greek authorities had approved to send him to the US, and, instead of Russia, to send him back to Greece. Despite efforts from Vinnik's legal team, the decision stood firm. After a draining legal battle on August 4th, 2022, Alexander Vinnik's worst fear came true. He was extradited to America to stand trial for operating BTC-e. Now in the US, Vinnik not just for profiting but also for running BTC-e. They alleged that his exceeding $4 billion in Bitcoin, the majority of which was from acquired from ransomware, and much, much more. But surely, Vinnik wasn't running this After nearly a year-long the Department of Justice two new names, Alexey both accused of stealing and laundering around 647,000 This is the Mastermind but unlike Vinnik, these two appear to have been indicted in absence. According to the BBC, Alexey but staying at a different resort. Upon hearing of Vinnik's arrest, he smashed his laptop, and hastily boarded a Back in Russia, with BTC-e he tried to bring it back promising users their would carry over, but within a year, it was shut down, and the new exchange's crypto holdings of $450 million vanished without a trace. According to Coinbase, Alexey is currently being but the source on this As for Aleksandr Verner, As of recording, Vinnik is with no trial date set. His request for bail was rejected, and the Department of Justice has objected to a prisoner swap. He faces up to 55 years in prison, but the trial will likely and we may not see the final As for the missing fortune almost all the funds were sold off as quickly as they were taken, largely before Bitcoin ever appreciated to any substantial value. It's estimated that they only a mere drop in the bucket compared to the staggering 50 billion these coins could have Luckily, for the tens who lost money in the collapse of Mt. Gox, the 200,000 coins Mark found to be worth more than the dollar value of all the coins lost This meant Mark could, in theory, pay everyone back the dollar value of what they lost in walking away having made billions. - [Interviewer] So it could - It could have been paid back to me, however, based on my, well, discussion with the trustee and the court, well, I helped make - Okay. instead planning to reimburse the coins, keeping no profit for himself. The trustees are set to finally repay the exchange's creditors their deserve share by though creditors are not confident, as this date has been pushed The work of US investigators as the mastermind behind the theft. In 2019, he was acquitted of most charges, an amazing feat considering Today, he runs a small keeping far away from the crypto industry. In the wake of Mt. Gox, I wish I could say that exchanges have but they haven't, and those Once again, I would like to this video's partner, &quot;War Thunder&quot;. Make sure to click my link to take advantage of before it goes away forever. You can play now on PC, Finally, I was inspired after first reading about it in Andy Greenberg's book, which tells not only this in the captivating detail I've included a link to