this video is for those of you who are studying for the pre-calculus final exam now it really doesn't contain many trick questions aside from law of signs and law of cosines and a few triangle problems but if your exam does contain trig I do have a separate video dedicated for that if you go to YouTube and do a search type in trigonometry final exam review organic chemistry tutor it should come up if not you can check the description section of this video and uh you should see a link there I'm going to post a link to that trig final exam review in the description section of this video so take a look at that when you get a chance you'll probably see some other links there as well now for these questions I recommend that you pause the video and try to work on it and then once you finish working on a problem play the video to see if you have the correct solution so let's begin with number one what is the value of x in the equation shown below so how do we solve this exponential equation the first thing we need to do is convert the bases we need to make sure the bases are the same 8 and 16 they both have a common base of 2. 8 is basically two to the third power you need to multiply three twos to get to eight and 16 we can replace that to or replace it with two to the fourth power so now what do we do when we have an exponent raised to another exponent in this case we need to multiply so let's multiply 3 by 3x Plus 5. 3 times 3x is 9x and then 3 times 5 is 15. now let's distribute the 4. so 4 times 2x is 8x 4 times negative 3 is negative 12. so now that the bases are the same what we can do is set the exponents equal I'm not sure what just happened here but we could set the exponents equal to each other so now we could say that 9x plus 15 is equal to 8X minus 12. now let's subtract both sides by 8x and at the same time we can subtract both sides by 15. so these will cancel on the left side we have 9x minus 8x which is 1x on the right side negative 12 minus 15 that's a negative 27. so we could see that the answer is answer Choice a x is equal to negative 27. number two if f of x is equal to 8 over x minus 3 and then what is f of negative one of four so basically what is the inverse function evaluated at four how do we find the inverse function of F well let's begin the first thing you want to do is replace f of x with y so we have y is equal to eight over x minus 3. now to get the inverse function the next step is to switch X and Y so we're going to have X is equal to 8 over y minus 3. now we need to solve for the Y variable so let's put this over one and cross multiply so we're going to have 8 is equal to X times y minus 3. our next step is to divide both sides by X so we're going to have 8 over X is equal to Y minus 3. now let's add 3 to both sides so we're going to have 8 over X plus 3 is equal to y so once you solve for y this is your inverse function so replace y with f of negative 1. so we could say that f of negative 1X or the inverse function of x is 8 over X Plus 3. now all we need to do at this point is plug in 4. so this is going to be 8 over 4 plus 3. 8 divided by 4 is 2. 2 plus 3 is 5. so f of negative 1 of 4 is equal to 5. which means that answer Choice D is the right answer now if you want to check your work mentally here's what you can do if f of negative one of four is five then the original function f of 5 has to be four because we switched X than y so let's plug in 5 into this function and let's make sure that we get 4. so first let me just make some space here give it that so F of 5 is going to be 8 over 5 minus 3. now 5 minus 3 is 2 8 divided by 2 is 4. so we can see that indeed F of 5 is equal to 4. so another way in which we could have gotten the same answer is we could have replaced f of x with 4 and solve 4X in that case X would be 5. and that will be our answer so we really didn't have to find the inverse function but it wasn't wrong to do that so there was two ways in which we can actually solve this problem number three evaluate the logarithmic expression shown below so what is log base 27 of 1 over 3. now there's multiple ways in which you can get the answer but let's talk about how to do it mentally first what is log base 2 of 8 how many twos do you need to multiply to get to eight you need to multiply three twos to get to eight so two to the third power is eight so it turns out that log base 2 of 8 is 3. what about log base let's say 4 of 16. 4 raised to the what power is 16. how many fours do you have to multiply to get to 16. this is going to be 2. what about log base 5 of 125 how many fives do you need to multiply to get to 125 this is going to be 3. now if log base 2 of 8 is 3. what is log base 2 of 1 over 8 well we know that two to the third power is eight so two to the negative third power is one over eight so if you have a fraction here the answer becomes negative now what if we were to reverse 8 and 2. if log base 2 of 8 is 3 then what is log base 8 of 2. so 8 raised to the what power is 2. we know that the cube root of eight is two so this is eight to the 1 3. so if the larger number is here this becomes a fraction instead of being 3 or 3 over 1 it's now one over three now what about log base 8 of 1 half so if we have a fraction here this is going to be negative so instead of one over three it's going to be negative 1 over 3. now I'm giving you these examples so you could see how to do this mentally in your head but for those of you who prefer to like do it the written way I'll show you what to do in the meantime go ahead and answer these questions evaluate log base 3 of 27 log base 3 of 1 over 27. and then log base 3 I mean base 27 of 3. now 3 to the what power is 27. how many threes do you have to multiply to get to 27. you need three threes to get to 27. now if we change it from 27 to 1 over 27 the 3 will become negative 3. and if we reverse 3 and 27 this 3 becomes positive one over three we just simply flip it under one now if we compare this with this one if we change 3 to 1 over 3 the positive one-third will now become negative one-third so the answer is answer Choice B but here's what you can do if you don't want to do it mentally set this whole thing equal to X and then convert the logarithmic expression into an exponential expression let me give you an example log base a of B is equal to C a raised to the C is equal to B so that's the process that you could use to convert it into an exponential expression so we're going to say that 27 raised to the x is equal to 1 over 3. now let's solve for x by getting a common base now we could replace 27 with 3 to the third power and 1 over 3 is basically 3 to the negative 1. now 3 to the third raised to the x we need to multiply these two exponents we always do that whenever we raise one exponent to another so we have three to the 3x is equal to 3 to the negative 1. now that we have the same bases the exponents must be equal to each other so we could say that 3x is equal to negative one dividing both sides by three we get that X is negative one over three so that's how you can show your work to get the answer the other method involves the use of a calculator you need to use the change of Base formula so let me give you the formula log base a of B is equal to log B divided by log a now the new base it could be anything so we're going to call it C it could be five it could be 7 it could be 24 any number you want but with a calculator all you need to do is type in log 1 over 3 divided by log 27. the calculator will automatically use base 10 for the logs but doesn't matter what the base is the answer will still be the same so let's go ahead and type that in and this is going to be negative 1 over 3. or your calculator might say negative 0.3333 repeat it so answer Choice B is the right answer number four using the piecewise function below what is the sum of f of negative 2 and F of 3. by the way if you don't see a topic in this video that you're looking for I recommend that you search out my pre-calculus playlist so if you go to YouTube Type in pre-calculus playlists organic chemistry tutor it should come up and pick the new one so chances are you'll find that topic that you're looking for in that playlist if you don't see it in this video so let's continue with this problem so we need to determine the sum of these two function values let's start with f of negative 2. which portion of the piecewise function should we use to find the value of f of negative 2. should we use the top one or the bottom one negative 2 is that less than 2 or greater than 2. since negative 2 Falls in this category we need to use the top portion of the piecewise function so it's going to be negative 2 squared minus 5 times negative two plus three so negative 2 squared that's positive 4 negative 5 times negative 2 is positive 10. so 4 plus 10 plus 3 is 17. now let's evaluate F of 3. 3 is greater than two so we need to use this second portion of the piecewise function so it's going to be 4 times 3 minus 7. 4 times 3 is 12. 12 minus 7 is 5. so now we can find a sum of f of negative two and F of 3. so it's going to be 17 plus 5. which is 22. so answer Choice D is the answer number five what is the value of x in the logarithmic equation shown below so what we need to do like we did before is we need to convert this logarithmic equation into an exponential equation 3 to the fourth power will equal what's inside as you recall when we had log a of B is equal to C we said that a raised to the C is equal to B so we're going to follow that same process here so 3 to the fourth power is 8x Plus 1. now what is 3 to the fourth power so if we have four threes what is that equal to well we know that 3 times 3 is 9. and 9 times 9 is 81. so 3 to the fourth power is 81. now let's subtract both sides by one 81 minus 1 is 80. next let's divide both sides by Eights so 80 divided by 8 is 10. thus X is equal to 10. so the correct answer is answer Choice C number six Karen invests fifteen thousand into an account that grows compounded continuously at an annual rate of 9.5 percent how many years will it take for her money to double so what formula do we need in this problem perhaps you've seen this equation a is equal to pert p e raised to the RT p is basically her principle the amount that she's going to put into the count a is going to be the account value after some time period has lapse e is basically a number it's the inverse of the natural log function R is the annual interest rate and T is the time in years so her investment the principal is fifteen thousand we want to see how long it takes excuse me we're going to see how long it takes for her money to double so that is her future account value will be thirty thousand R is the interest rate as a decimal so we need to convert the percentage into a decimal we can do this by dividing 9.5 by a hundred and so R is going to be 0.095 so you can move the decimal point two units to the left since we're trying to determine how many years it's going to take for our money to double our goal is to solve for the variable t so let's begin by dividing both sides by fifteen thousand thirty thousand divided by fifteen thousand well this becomes Thirty divided by fifteen that's two so we have two is equal to e raised to the point zero nine five times t so how do we solve for a variable in the exponent position how do we do that the only way to do that is to take the logarithm of both sides or the natural log of both sides I prefer to use the natural log because we have the base e it's important to know that L and E is one so use natural logs here so we're going to have ln2 is equal to Ln e raised to the .095 T now a property of logs allows us to take the exponent and move it to the front for instance Ln a to the second power is equal to 2 L and A we can take the 2 and move it to the front so we're going to take this whole thing move it to the front here so it's going to be .095 T times Ln e and Ln e is 1 so that's going to disappear so let's rewrite what we have on the top of the page so to isolate t what we need to do next is we need to divide both sides by .095 so the time it takes to double for a problem where it grows compounding continuously is simply the natural log of 2 divided by the annual interest rate as a decimal .095 and so the answer I get is 7.296 with some other numbers so we can round that to 7.3 so that's how long it's going to take for Karen's investment to double at this interest rate number seven Susan deposits 30 000 into a mutual fund that averages an annual interest rate of nine percent compounded monthly at its growth rate what will be the value in the account after 40 years if she makes no withdrawals so this is basically a free response problem and you need to know the formula to use so in the last example we use a equals print whenever the growth rate is compounding continuously but if it's not compounded continuously this is the formula that you need to use now p is the principle we know that it's thirty thousand that's how much she invests into this mutual fund R is the annual interest rate which is nine percent but we need to divide that by a hundred so we're going to plug in .09 for r n is the number of times that the account is basically credited with interest in a year so it's compounded monthly so how many months are in a year we know that there's 12 months in a year so n is 12. t is the total number of years that the money is kept in the account and so she's going to keep it for 40 years so T is 40. so now let's plug in what we know so this is going to be thirty thousand times one plus .09 divided by 12. raised to the 12 times 40. so basically you can type it in exactly the way you see it into your calculator device so here's the answer that I got in 40 years her account value should be 1 million 83 000 297 dollars and six cents so this example really illustrates the power of compounding when you're saving for the long term number eight what is the sum of all the zeros in the polynomial function shown below so how can we find the answer to this problem now we can't really Factor this polynomial right now so what we need to do is list the possible zeros that we can get in this polynomial find one that works and then use synthetic division to find the others so the first thing we need to do is write out the possible factors of the last number 24. so possible factors of 24 are one two three four six eight twelve and 24. and then we need to divide these by the possible factors of the lean coefficient which is just one so we have a lot of numbers to choose from so it's best to start with the smaller numbers one and two so what we want to do is we want to plug in a number and see if it's going to equal zero so let's start with f of 1. F of one is one to the third power minus three times one squared minus 10 times 1 plus 24. to save time it's best to just type this in and so I got 12 for this so this doesn't equal 0. so x equal 1 is not a zero let's try negative one and let's type it in as well so I got 30 for this now let's move on to the next one let's try two so this is going to be 2 to the Third minus 3 times 2 squared minus 10 times 2 Plus 24. so I got a zero so the first zero is X is equal to 2. so let's highlight this answer and now let's use synthetic division to get the other ones so what I'm going to do is I'm going to put the 2 here and then I'm going to write the coefficients of this polynomial function here it's 1 negative 3 negative 10 and 24. so first we're going to bring down to 1. and then we're going to multiply 2 times 1 is 2 and then we're going to add negative 3 plus 2 is negative 1. I then multiply 2 times negative 1 is negative 2. and then add so those two numbers will add to negative 12. and then multiply 2 times negative 12 is negative 24. and then they add to zero so when you divide X cubed by X you're going to get x squared this is going to be 1X squared minus 1X minus 12. so now what we could do let me just get rid of that circle on top is we can now Factor this expression so it's equal to since this is X is equal to 2 as a factor we're going to write it as x minus 2. and then it's going to be times what we see here x squared minus x minus 12. so if you were to multiply this binomial by this trinomial you should get this polynomial that we started with in the beginning now to find the other zeros one thing we need to do is set this function equal to zero so if we set x minus 2 equal to 0 you'll get this answer x equals two but now how can we Factor this trinomial so what two numbers multiply to the constant term negative 12. but add to the middle coefficient negative one negative 12 is basically 4 times negative 3. but these two numbers add up to positive one if we reverse the signs these two will add up to negative one so we can Factor it as x minus four times X Plus 3. so now we can see all the zeros that we have if you set x minus 2 equal to zero you'll get X is equal to two if you set x minus 4 equal to 0 and solve for x you'll get X is equal to four and for this one negative 3. now our goal is to find the sum of all the zeros so what is the sum of 2 4 and negative 3. 2 plus 4 is 6. 6 plus negative 3 is positive 3. so this is the final answer Choice C number nine what is the domain of the function shown below so we have f of x is equal to the square root of 5 minus X so which is the answer is it 5 to infinity negative 5 to infinity negative Infinity to 5 or something else now it's important to understand that we can't have a negative number inside a square root the square root of negative 4 will not give us a real number it will give us an imaginary number we know the square root of 4 is 2. the square root of negative 4 is basically 2i keep in mind the imaginary excuse me the imaginary number I is the square root of negative one so for this radical function we can't have any negative numbers inside the square root so inside the square root 5 minus X this has to be greater than or equal to zero now for those of you who may have trouble finding the domain of a function like this problem I have a video on YouTube that is just dedicated to doing that if you type in how to find the domain of any function organic chemistry tutor it should come up but now let's get back to this problem let's begin by subtracting both sides by 5. so we're going to have Negative X is greater than or equal to negative 5. next let's divide both sides by negative one now when solving with inequalities whenever you multiply or divide both sides by a negative number the direction of the inequality changes negative 5 divided by negative 1 is positive 5. so we get that X is less than or equal to 5. now which one of these answer choices corresponds to this inequality if you're not sure here's what you can do to help um here's what you can do to help yourself get the answer draw a number line so let's say this is zero this is five and then plot the solution on a number line so X is less than or equal to 5. do we need an open circle or a closed Circle at five what would you say because of the underline it includes five so we need a closed Circle and because it's also less than five we need to shade to the left if it was greater than 5 we would shade to the right now all the way to the right we have positive Infinity and all the way to the left we have negative Infinity so going from left to right the Shaded region starts at negative infinity and it ends at 5. so the answer is going to be from negative Infinity to 5. now what we need to determine is are we going to use parentheses or brackets you should always put a parenthesis next to an infinity symbol now whenever you have a closed Circle you should always use a bracket for Open Circles use a parenthesis so the answer is going to be negative Infinity to 5. so C is the right answer now let's check to see if the answer makes sense so looking at our solution X cannot be greater than 5. so what's going to happen if we plug in 6 into this expression so this would be the square root of 5 minus 6. and 5 minus 6 is negative 1. so this will give us an imaginary number not a real number so that's why x equals 6 is not in the domain but if we pick a number less than five like four then it works five minus four is one the square root of one is a real number one and so you could check your answer to see if it makes sense your answer should include all the possible values of x and that can go into this formula or into that function number ten write the domain of the function shown below use an interval notation now what you need to understand is that when dealing with a rational function basically a function in a fraction the function will be undefined if there is a zero in the denominator and so the X values that lead to that situation has to be removed from the domain of the function so basically the denominator 6X squared plus x minus 15. cannot equal zero so how do we find the X values that will cause it to be zero well we need to factor this trinomial earlier in the video we factored a trinomial where the leading coefficient is one this time it's not one so there's going to be a little bit more work that we have to do here what we need to do is multiply the leading coefficient by the constant term and so 6 times negative 15 that's going to be negative 90. now we need to find two numbers that multiply to negative 90 but add to 1. so what are some numbers that multiply to 90. so we have three n negative 30. we have 5n negative 18. if you divide negative 90 by 5 you get Negative 18. there's 6 and negative 15. there's 9 a negative 10. but notice that these two add up to negative 1. so if we reverse it these two add up to positive one so what we're going to do now is we are going to replace the middle term positive X with negative 9x plus 10x because these two they will simplify to X so the value of the expression does not change so now let's get rid of this at this point we need to do something called Factor by grouping notice that 6 to 9 has the same ratio as 10 to 15. if you divide 9 by 6 you get three over two if you divide 15 by 10 you get three over two so if you have four terms with the first two and the last two have the same ratio you can Factor by grouping so what we're going to do is we're going to take out the GCF in the first two terms the greatest common factor between 6X squared and nine X is 3x 6X squared divided by 3x is 2X negative 9x divided by 3x is basically negative 3. now what is the GCF between the last two terms the GCF is going to be positive 5. 10x divided by 5 is 2X negative 15 divided by 5. is negative 3. notice that these two terms are the same so that tells us that we're on the right track so what we're going to do now is factor out the GCF Within These two terms and so we can clearly see that the greatest common factor is 2x minus 3. so this divided by 2x minus 3 will give us 3x and if we take out 2x minus 3 from the second term we're left with positive 5. so these are the two factors that we have now let's separate each factor each of them must not equal zero so at this point we can get rid of this so let's add 3 to both sides so I have 2X cannot equal 3 and then if we divide by two we get that X cannot equal positive three over two so that's the first one now for the second one we need to subtract both sides by 5. so we'll get that 3x cannot equal negative 5. and then divide by 3. so X cannot be negative five over three so now that we know that now that we know the X values that lead to the function being undefined how can we take this information and write the domain using interval notation what I recommend is the number line so let's put 0 first and let's put the other X values that we have negative 5 over 3 is to the left of zero and positive 3 over 2 is to the right of it and don't forget to put positive Infinity on the right negative Infinity on the left now X cannot equal 3 over 2. so we need an open circle at 3 over 2. and it also cannot equal negative five over three so we'll need an open circle at that point not a closed Circle now X can be anything else it could be five it could be negative eight it could be two it could be one over three anything else so we need to shade everything except negative five over three and three over two now I'm going to use different colors for this and you'll see why so there's three sections to our answer so here's the first section as we read the basically number line from left to right that's going to give us the domain so it's from negative Infinity to negative 5 over 3. now because we have an open circle we're going to put a parenthesis next to negative 5 over 3. so that's the first section highlighted in blue now the second part which we're going to highlight in red it starts from negative 5 over 3 and ends at 3 over 2. now the third part which starts in green it begins at three over two and it ends at Infinity so that's how you can write the domain for this particular rational function number 11. which of the following choices represents a solution to the logarithmic equation shown below is it a b c d or e so how can we solve this particular logarithmic equation well you need to be familiar with some of the properties of logs particularly this one log a plus log B is equal to log a b so you can take two log Expressions combine it into a single log by multiplying A and B so that's what we need to do in this example we need to condense the two logarithmic Expressions into a single log by multiplying X plus five with X plus one now let's go ahead and foil that expression so we have x times x which is x squared and then we have 1X which we can add that with 5x given us 6x and then 5 times 1 is 5. now we have a single log expression equal to a number so at this point we want to change the equation from its logarithmic form into its exponential form starting with the base we have two raised to the fifth power is equal to the stuff inside now what is 2 to the fifth power if you multiply five twos together what will you get two to the fifth power is 32. now our next step is to subtract 32 from both sides so we're going to put a zero on the right side 5 minus 32 will give us a negative 27. so now we have a trinomial where the leading coefficient is one so we need to factor this expression what two numbers multiplies to the constant term negative 27 but add to the middle coefficient 6. so this is going to be 9 and 3. particularly positive 9 and negative 3. nine plus negative 3 adds up to 6 but they multiply to negative 27. so this is going to be X plus nine and x minus 3. Now using the zero product property if we set X Plus 9 equal to zero and solve for x we're going to get that X is equal to negative 9. if we do the same with the other factor x minus 3 we'll see that X is equal to positive 3. now we have two answers this corresponds to answer Choice a and this corresponds to answer Choice d are both answers correct or is one of them an extraneous solution what would you say now what you need to keep in mind is that logarithmic functions have a restricted domain within the inside of a log function it cannot equal zero and it cannot be negative so if we were to replace x with negative 9 the first part will be negative 9 plus 5. which is basically log base 2 of negative 4. so this is not part of the domain of logs you can't have a negative number inside of it so this is an extraneous solution so the correct answer is 3 because if you plug in 3 into X plus 5 you're going to get a positive number if you plug it in into X Plus 1 you will also get a positive number and so this is the answer and if you want to check it it's going to equal 5. so here we're going to have log base 2. 3 plus 5. and then log base 2 3 plus 1. let's make sure that it's equal to five so three plus five is eight and three plus one is four Now log base 2 of 8 how many twos do we have to multiply to get to eight that requires three twos how many tools do we need to multiply to get to four that's two-fourths so three plus two is five we can see that the solution is correct so D is the right answer choice number 12. if f of x is equal to x squared minus 4X plus 3 and G of X is three X plus five then what is the value of f of G of negative one so how do we evaluate a composite function well it's best to take this one step at a time first let's find the value of G of negative one so we're going to use this G is 3x Plus 5. let's replace x with negative 1. so this is negative three plus five which is positive 2. so now we can focus on evaluating f of G of negative 1. because we know that g of negative one is two so let's replace it with two so now we'll need to plug in 2 into f so F of 2 is going to be 2 squared minus 4 times 2 plus 3. 2 squared is 4 4 times 2 is 8. 4 minus 8 is negative 4. negative 4 plus 3 is negative 1. so this is the final answer which correlates to answer Choice B so that is the value of the composite function f of G of x when X is 1. number 13 which of the following graphs shown below does not represent a function so what do you think we need to do here how can we tell if a graph represents a function or not what type of test do we need to use we need to use something called the vertical line test if the graph touches the vertical line more than once it is not a function so looking at answer Choice a we could see that the red curve touches the graph only once so this is a function answer Choice B it touches it only once so that's a function for D it touches it wants to but for C it touches it at multiple points so One X value has at least in this case where that line is three y values which is not a function every x value should only correspond to one y value in a function so C is the answer this does not represent a function now it's important for you to know the parent functions of certain graphs for instance for answer Choice a this is the parent function x squared and for B this is y is equal to X cubed and D represents the parent function the square root of x so just keep that in mind 14 graph the absolute value function shown below write the domain and range used in interval notation so let's use transformations to do so the absolute value of x the parent function that looks like this it's basically a graph with a V shape now let's say if we add 3 to it this will shift the graph three units up so it would start at positive 3. now what about put in a plus two inside the absolute value symbol what effect will that have on a graph so instead of having a vertical shift what we're going to have is a horizontal shift but it's going to be not to the right but to the left two units because if you set X plus 2 equal to 0 X will be negative 2. so that's that horizontal shift left two units now what about let's say if we put a negative sign in front of the absolute value symbol in this case this is going to be a reflection but over the x-axis this is going to open downward and what we have is a combination of these three things in this example we have the negative sign in front plus 2 on the inside of the absolute value symbol and plus 3 outside of everything so the graph is going to shift up three units left two and it's going to reflect over the x-axis so let's make a bigger graph what we're going to do first is we're going to move the The Original Point The Original Point started at the origin but at that point it's going to move two units to the left and then it's going to move up three units so it's going to be at negative 2 3. and the graph is going to open downward now the slope the number in front of X is a one so as we travel one unit to let's say the left we need to go down one so that's going to give us the point negative 3 2. and then as we go one to the left down one so the next one is going to be negative 4 1. and at this point we can draw a straight line now the right side is going to be the same as we go one unit to the right we need to go down one one to the right down one and so forth so that's basically a rough sketch of this particular absolute value function so that's how you can graph it using transformations now let's focus on writing the domain and range using interval notation the domain has to do with the X values so notice that the blue line goes all the way to the left due to the arrow so it's going to go from negative Infinity to the left side from the left side all the way to the right side to positive Infinity so there's no restrictions on the value of x in this function X could be anything now what about the range what's the range in this example when analyzing the domain because you're dealing with the X values you need to analyze the graph starting from the left and going to the right when analyzing the range you're analyzing the Y values so we need to analyze the graph starting from the bottom go into the top so the lowest y value is negative Infinity this line will keep going down the highest y value is here positive 3. there's no blue line above y equals three it stops there so the range the lowest y value starts from negative Infinity to the highest y value 3. and always put a parenthesis next to an infinity symbol now because 3 is included we're going to use a bracket because if you plug in negative 2 you'll get 3 for y and so that's how you can write the domain and range from a graph number 15 graph the exponential function shown below write the domain and range using interval notation and then identify any asymptotes so for exponential functions there's a certain way in which I like to graph it now there's other ways which can still lead you to the same answer but the way I like to do it's a very simple way now the first thing is identifying the asymptote exponential functions have a horizontal asymptote and you can see it right here in this case its Y is equal to 1. if you don't see a number here it's y equals zero so that's the first thing that I'm going to plot so I'm going to put that in blue so this is our horizontal asymptote at y equals one now the next thing that I like to do is I like to take the exponent and set it equal to two numbers I'm going to set it equal to zero and I'm going to set it equal to 1. and then using those X values I'm going to make a table if you set X plus 3 equal to 0 and solve for x will be negative 3. if you solve the second one minus 3 is negative 2. now what we need to do is plug in these values to get the Y value so let's start with 3 I mean negative 3. negative three plus negative three I mean negative 3 plus 3 rather is zero anything raised to the zero power is one and one plus one is two now let's replace X with negative two negative two plus three is one two to the first power is two two plus one is three so now what you want to do is you want to plot those two points on the graph so the first one is negative 3 2 which is here and the second one is negative 2 3 and then what you need to do is start the graph from the horizontal asymptote and follow the two points and that's how you can draw a rough sketch of an exponential function it's the most it's one of the most efficient ways to do so so now we could focus on right in the domain and range so starting with the domain we need to analyze the function from left to right so it starts all the way from the left which is negative Infinity and as the function goes up it will continue to go to the right so it will extend towards positive Infinity which means X can be anything you can plug in any value for x so it's all real numbers for the domain it ranges from negative Infinity to Infinity now let's focus on the Range so we need to analyze the graph from the bottom to the top so the lowest y value is the horizontal asymptote which is one the highest is infinity so it goes from 1 to Infinity but notice that I do not have a bracket at one because the graph will never touch one it will always initially it starts just above one but never exactly one there's no x value that you can plug in that will make y exactly equal to one you can get close to one but it's not going to touch one so we need a parenthesis and not a bracket at one so this is the domain and range for this particular function