&gt;&gt; Welcome to the--welcome to this evening be--this is part as you know of the American section that's taking care of--that's taking part of the Bay Area Science Festival. And the Bay Area Science Festival and Mathematical I'm just going to introduce the introducer. secretary in charge of this meeting. And our is a former president of the American Mathematical Mathematical Sciences Research Institute in [ Applause ] &gt;&gt; My great pleasure tonight to introduce going to talk about luck and I want to talk of personal story. My father, Leonard Eisenbud, of Stony Brook in 1957, just one year after but it had growing pains. And at one point, that the provost felt he needed to have a and--that no one in the department would do. Various people applied and my father was on and they made some pretty questionable choices, Simons. Never done any administration before interviewed the candidates and the provost, said, &quot;You know, of all the people I've interviewed, want the job.&quot; [ Laughter ] And indeed, nobody else took the job and Jim I've been touched by that luck too in getting Bertram Kostant whom I saw in the audience around, unless he left again. &gt;&gt; 61. &gt;&gt; 61, oh. As your Wikipedia entries [inaudible] Prize in 1976. Is that the right thing? He singularities starting in Dimension 7, not for Chern-Simons theory which is applied in ways. In 1982, a change of life, he founded the amazing chapter really--even more amazing math and a lot of talented people's work too and has now been sharing his wealth and his I will all share the luck again in listening [ Applause ] &gt;&gt; This is a high thing. OK. I guess you can introduction. So I'm going to kind of talk Some of it about math and some of it about and then I'll take some questions if there a little kid. I didn't think of it as math, Zeno's--and so this is proof of my thoughtfulness about four years old, not knowing it was anybody's meant. But I learned from my father, to my And I said, &quot;Whoa. It shouldn't run out. You could use half of that and then you could And it didn't occur to me that you'd never my family doctor, Dr. Kaplan [assumed spelling], you know, bright Jewish boy, you should be And I wanted nothing less than to be a doctor. be a doctor. You know, I want to do something I didn't know much. I was about eight years make any money doing that stuff.&quot; And I said--and, an impediment at eight years old. I wasn't just thinking that I did not want to be a and it turns out for anyone who would have would not have done a very good job. But I stock boy in Breck's garden supply during people and I got this job. A stock boy works looking, you know, bringing stuff up to the a good stock boy because I could never remember no rhyme or reason, no order, it wasn't alphabetized where things were. So the two people who ran boy. But I was there so they said, &quot;OK. You So then, I had a big push broom and sawdust and push the broom and walk up and down keeping to do--enjoyed doing very much. And it came time for me to leave. So this couple sat me me what I was going to do. I was I think 14 I think I want to go to MIT.&quot; Well they laughed this kiddo doesn't even know where the dried and study mathematics. Well, I did. I never But I did. And I went to MIT and did study could be a mathematician. But I really had Now, I guess you're all mathematicians so one thing over a boundary and you take its that over the interior or something. And that, fundamental theorem of calculus and it works most beautiful thing, that theorem. And it made me want to become--go into this field of gradually learned existed. And what sealed in Boston. It's not there anymore, I'm afraid, late at night and as an undergraduate, we at 2 in the morning because young kids can But frequently, Is Singer and Warren Ambrose, Ambrose was an older fellow. He must have he was a great teacher. They would show up and drink coffee and do mathematics. And I You know, here are these grownups, you know, it in dress and suits, they just had, you a life this is. It's 2 in the morning, over that that was for me. I graduated MIT. I graduated school. But when I graduated, which is in Where was David? He confused those dates, example of having no commonsense at all but involved. In those days, motor scooters had and they were Italian. It was either a Vespa you had. And we decided, I and a friend from was not a mathematician, we decided to ride have them. We didn't even know how to ride that difficult. We're going to ride them from [ Laughter ] Yeah. Well, Boston--they both began with B, the motor scooters and a third guy joined Bogota and that took seven weeks. And I at to death. I think I never told my mother that. how dangerous that trip was, she wouldn't so I got there. Now, one of the themes of people that you work with. And so this fellow, became my first partners in a business venture was lucky on that account but it showed little year in MIT as a graduate student. I thought go to Berkeley and meet Chern, the great geometer differential geometry since that's what I nice fellowship, I went to Berkeley. The only Chern was coming to Berkeley that year that's perhaps knowing I was coming decided to go on sabbatical or something. So I didn't see told me Bert Kostant was here. Is he here? see him. But anyway, I worked with a fellow I did when I got to Berkeley or very early within a month of getting there and there And so--which was cash. So I had--we had some there. We should invest it. I didn't know that one could invest money. So I went to 21 years old. And said I want to open an account be just terrific and I want to buy these stocks. I'm an impatient guy and after a month, nothing up, it didn't go anywhere. So I was bored &quot;Well, isn't there something that's a little any ideas?&quot; Oh yeah. He said, soybeans. You I've never eaten one myself. It turns out But pigs eat them in great quantities and that mean exactly?&quot; He said, &quot;Well, you know, It's a futures market. Our guys tell us soybeans of money.&quot; I said OK. So I bought two contracts was making money, they went down, I was losing I bought one contract. Meanwhile, I was going early in the morning to watch the soybean 8 o'clock in the morning already I was out, student. And after a couple of weeks, I came I think. I said, I'm either going to write possibly do both. And I came to that realization OK. I'm closing out the profit. And it was although the occasion did rise. So--then I do both. You couldn't write a thesis and trade a thesis and it was a very gratifying experience. I got some results which I showed to my professor That's nice.&quot; [Inaudible] suggests that a Anyone know what a holonomy group is? Probably Yes. OK. Some of you. Anyway, it's a group Let's say, on the tangent bundle, you can to where you started and you move the tangent the possible--and that's a [inaudible] group, And it had recently been shown that there for holonomy groups on an irreducible manifold, other Riemannian manifolds. And that list transitive on the unit sphere. So, everyone on the sphere, in the tangent space and bring And so that was kind of a question. Well, And I said, &quot;Oh, I want to try that problem.&quot; a very hard problem.&quot; You know, [inaudible] So that was like throwing gasoline on the And by, well, perhaps a miracle, I did. So I've had some interactions with Singer along problem and we talked about a little bit or that and they hired me and I went to MIT and I was an instructor at MIT. But I still had different and when I had been in Colombia and I saw Colombia and my friends, it was there it seemed. All kinds of things could I had this friend down there who was very know, you guys ought to start a business. OK. I'm going to come down to Colombia and not that I had any money particularly to invest a little bit and I stayed there two weeks, to do it. The father of one of them [inaudible] father and I put up a little bit of money weeks and of course, it took a little while after that first year, you know, this is so work in this factory, in this place, and it in the interim because the place wasn't ready, know, two years or a year and a half at an company. So I quit the Moore instructorship and my job was to calculate Bessel functions function was at that time although I certainly and they needed--anyway, it was the most tedious, Bessel functions all day long. So I began Bott and with Singer, all these guys and--So a mistake.&quot; And he said, &quot;Oh, we'll put you in Harvard. In those days, you had an NSF just hire someone on the contract. So I went said, OK, I'll let those boys run the factory worked on mathematics which I did. And I was varieties. Minimal varieties are manifolds on the dimension with respect to their boundary. dimensions typically--not a soap bubble but you'll get a film. That's going to minimize kind of from first principles. Almost all But I was trying to understand the geometry going along. They hired me at Harvard to be a full two years, once on Bott's contract didn't like Harvard. I don't know, there was today probably--Yes, there is something. Well, better but-- [ Laughter ] And I don't even know you. But, I don't know, out of the factory so I felt I needed a change. still going strong called the Institute for for Defense Analyses. And there, they would secret. It was a very highly classified place. fact, in those days, you weren't even allowed But now it's permissible to say that's what anything about codes and ciphers but I knew your time doing mathematics and half--as much on their stuff. And that sounded pretty good. that job. I loved everything about it. I learned know how to--would never know how to program there were fortunately people who could. I about testing things out on a computer. Maybe Most of the time, it didn't work, sometimes the people and I was still working away at there, maybe into my third year, I solved of minimal varieties which as David said, is in codimension 1 in Euclidean space. So one dimension lower and you'll want two dimensions and you want to fill in. And I proved that any singularities through ambient Dimension dimensional space with a five dimensional do it, a uniform proof. But in one dimension a counterexample which turned out--and I couldn't stable but it might not have been globally the three sphere and you cross it with itself in the actual--the seven dimensional sphere six dimensional boundary. The cone on that has a vertex and a singularity. But that does volume. And then--so that was a good result I knew about minimal variety was packed into that was very nice. And so David said, I won wanted for some few years later. And I was but it was the Vietnam wartime if you remember. of you probably lived through it. And so now, do with the Vietnam War as far as I knew. with what we did because I never read any access to that stuff, we just tried to crack the boss of my boss was in Washington, DC Some of you probably remember old Maxwell he'd been kicked upstairs, he ran the Institute for the New York Times, it was a cover story we're doing so great in Vietnam, we're going just hold still. It's a terrific enterprise. there were others who didn't think so. But who works for General Taylor shares his views. and-- [ Laughter ] I mean, the words were classier than that they published that letter eagerly I'm sure didn't hear anything from my superiors, I But then a few months later, a young guy came, for Newsweek magazine. I think it still exists news weekly, that and Time magazine. You're who work for the Defense Department who are have many takers because--but I wonder if old, no one had ever asked me for an interview you can interview me. So he interviewed me. &quot;Well, the rule IDA is you have to spend half half of your time with your own stuff. And my time on mathematics and when the war is time at their stuff so I'll make it all up I'm doing. Yeah, exactly, oh-ho-ho-ho because--and to being true. Anyway, then I did the only my boss that I gave this interview, [inaudible] the interview but I didn't, I told him after. say?&quot; I said, &quot;Well, I told him about my half says, &quot;I have to call Taylor&quot;, his boss. So on this point but I think he may have called room. But it seemed like only a microsecond [ Laughter ] And I said, well--I said, you know, my title [ Laughter ] --permanent member of this outfit. He said, He said, &quot;I'll tell you the difference between He said, &quot;A temporary member has a contract a leg to stand on. They may have given me deal was but they were probably more generous. I had a wife, three kids and no job. But I know I could get an academic job. And so I It was all kind of exhilarating actually being make a habit of it. You shouldn't make a habit Anyway, I did get as David said this offer would really be fun. As I've said before, [phonetic] than the firee. And the department at that. And it was a very new university And I met Frank Yang, the famous physicist had an interesting interaction. And so he to his office, he was going to tell me what he was, you know, Nobel Prize winning great And so I sat down and he told me what he was so I didn't understand a goddamned thing. any physics but, you know, I looked and I I thanked him very much at the end and I went in year 2 and then again in year 3 but something 3. He kind of showed me the same equations. I said stop, stop right there. He said, &quot;Why to invent mathematics that was done 30 or he was doing was in gauge theory, you use he didn't know that you could also have--there group and all that stuff. And he was torturously bundle with a connection. And I said, you &quot;Why would they have ever done that? Why would well, it was beautiful, natural and it just except to say it just came out of mathematics. OK. So we had a--so he organized a seminar physics and it was kind of a translation seminar. And he even wrote a glossary. He even wrote it was the smartest group of students I ever know, I got to--but it was great. And they because I'm a terrible speller. They gave you know, as a gift for that. So in the meantime, working with Chern, the guy. We had become--he having missed the first year but we became but we became friends. And I had--while Stony dimensions that looked quite interesting, do this in all dimensions. This is very exciting,&quot; and wrote a paper. And that was the roots seem to be used in a lot of places which is, this math and we didn't think, oh, it's going thought maybe it will apply, you know, maybe it was. But the idea that it would find its quite ubiquitous, I mean, it's condensed matter in cosmology, Chern-Simons term. And, you it and I don't have the faintest idea. But is that way. You do a piece of basic science, to go. But if it's pretty good science, it Maxwell developed the Maxwell equations, the I don't think so. You know, he just wanted work, and obviously figured it out. So I was a guy named Jeff Cheeger. It grew out of that which now is kind of the root of a subject heard of that. And we got--we worked on that could figure out about rational numbers or or irrational. We really wanted to figure struggling with those questions, I won't say my investment in Colombia paid off. So, a bucks, my father had more but we had some why, said, &quot;OK. We have this money. We want got the idea that I would be any better at Lynch years ago, I don't know. But I said, had been a mathematician and was now a commodity So I said, Charlie, we have this money. Would of course. I'll be happy to.&quot; He said, &quot;Why he thought it was good. And so, I made a deal of the profits. No fixed fee but 25 percent much money and I said, you know, if we lose don't want to lose all the money. So that's of his apartment, something occurred to me we're going to have to stop. He said, well, I said, 10 times what we invested after your 10 times is much. So he said fine. So that that basis after 10 months. He had actually of 13, and when you take off 20--anyway, we It was just completely lucky. He--well, I [ Laughter ] But there it was. So now, I really, you know, I had followed his work carefully. In fact, knew where he was. So I said, &quot;OK. I'll keep you stand.&quot; He said, &quot;OK. That's great. It that. And so I learned a little bit about And I thought, OK. Mathematics is driving on the wrong side of the first wife. I was to be my second wife and my present wife. I'm going to go into business and be a trader. started doing some training and that was working from IDA. He was the best cryptanalyst in and so--and in fact he--I don't know if any or the EM algorithm. Anyway, it's a famous Baum-Welch. So, he was a very smart guy. And charts. Actually it was currencies that we to them. They don't look random to me. So, &quot;OK.&quot; But it turned out--and we did. We made be OK. And it's a trade, but we were doing building. He said I, you know--He loved the and reading the tickers and the news tickers a while, very, very good. So, we put the models very well, we did very well. But it was a know one day you're walking and you think in my way. Look, I'm a--And the next day you feel like you're a dope. How could I have or reason. It was just, you know, you put which way the wind is blowing. I'll tell you was a time when gold was going up. Gold had you could and there was as the price was rising Lenny, Lenny Baum and I, where we'd each have I was the boss but we've each had our own both buy gold. It was supposed to be independent up. It started at 200 and 300 and 400 and would be like 15 or $1800. And I said, &quot;You out.&quot; And I sold my half. But Lenny, I think was going to be. You can't--This is going said, OK. So, he stayed at the 600, it was I happened to be talking to a friend of mine he in fact, he was my stockbroker. And I said, well, they're fine. This morning my wife Lucy my--all tie clasps and cufflinks and went They were gold, see? And I said, well, I--are is she--so your wife--Oh, he says, &quot;You know So he said, so she only has to stand in the short line?&quot; He says, &quot;Don't you know that selling their gold?&quot; I said, &quot;No, I did know [ Laughter ] We had a phone in those days. If you picked it up, you went right to the floor of the office and I put the phone up to his ear and he said, &quot;No, no, no, no.&quot; I said, &quot;Lenny, I was more emphatic than that. He said, &quot;All maybe it was $810. Oh, he was mad. And the And oh, he said [inaudible]. I told you. By It was down to $600 all in one day and it an example of commonsense and very good luck. the day I did, Lenny would have held on to back to 200 after a while. It would have wrote And so, it was just playing luck that I have, everyone in the world is trying to sell that There is such a thing as supply and demand. like to be a fundamental trader. It was stomach a very well known algebraist to come and work of Lenny [inaudible] and he got a good computer showed that the models used for currencies on our way with models. And well, we kept trading the models, and finally it took about we went to all models. And then we started started the company called Renaissance Technologies people has 90 PhDs and it's 100 percent, it's profitable for a long time. And other mathematicians is here. Maybe some of you know Elwyn. Henry So, it has been remarkably successful. So, there are a lot of little secret because the and they keep inching away and getting a new them together and soon you have an awful lot other and you can, you know, you can make say what's the secret sauce. But the secret very smart people working for the firm. We who was a good scientist and who wasn't and people, not just mathematicians but computer astronomers, we got four or five astronomers do experiments. I have to--you can't make to--You have to take it as it is and that's, We built a terrific infrastructure. The computer take in nine terabytes a day of data comes organized and dished up to the researchers It's an open atmosphere. Everybody knows what a research meeting if you'd have a good idea you present it. If it looks good it's goes more carefully but there aren't little groups system and I want [inaudible] this. So--And in a collaborative manner. Sure you don't a thought, you know, run down the hallways that out a little bit. But--So, I think that's a piece of the profits, all the senior people is good too. So, we have very little turnover that it runs 24 hours a day, not 7 days a is we never override the computer. No one wants to do this. That's crazy, we shouldn't simulate that. You can't study the past and in and change his mind about something. So, well--So, obviously I make money and in 1974 [inaudible]. We've been giving money away a foundation.&quot; So, we had a foundation. And dressing room and she had a little box with She was a--actually a PhD in econometrics And so she took a night course in accounting. it and there was a wonderful cartoon. It showed and someone was standing on the tower addressing people said to the--his neighbor and to think [ Laughter ] So she studied accounting and we built up broadly to social causes, to universities, 10 years ago, we decided to just focus on we did were done outside of the foundation a very--it's very good, it's a good foundation. of autism, just trying to understand that. We have less applied things and look various physical science program. In fact that David to organize for us which we have various kinds And we also have started in the last few years a--as it's stated, it's a collaborative project 50 scientists typically in different places one on the origins of life which is an underfunded not the NIH. It's not going to give you any fascinating and those--that's a project. We is sort of a material science, condensed matter, inside materials. That's a many body problem which electrons that would normally repel if you guys know what entanglement means. So, modeling these big clouds of electrons first principles are well known but so what? quite well actually. We have a project in between the myriad of microbes in the oceans quite a vibrant foundation and I think maybe Anyone who haven't gotten the grant from us? [ Laughter ] OK. I didn't realize that. OK. Well, I mean give all kinds--Oh, there's someone way back these beautiful girls? So that's--that's the wonderful circumstances, I went back to my in 19--in 2004, we lost a son, we lost one And kind of as a refuge, I just started thinking you then retreat into your head and you're out other stuff. And I thought about a problem that I had thought about before and then I discovered there was a group of Germans--any there are some Germans in the audience. Who know that at that time. But I got an idea some topology which was beyond me and I spoke you've heard of, who is a great topologist out the Germans. They were very nice Germans other results that we didn't have and so on. we beat them and-- [ Laughter ] So that was, that was gratifying. And since other papers with Dennis so I'm back, you I retired from Renaissance in--five years to a monthly meeting. But those guys are doing who came out of IBM 20 years ago and they IBM and they came and then they kept bringing and now they're running the company. So--And In fact one of our--I mentioned the other have a program called Math for America in the head of--the executive director of the There he is with his wife Janice and John program of getting competent teachers and and now in the state schools as well. And talk some years ago and my wife said, &quot;Well, your values. Values I know it. I said--I remember--I I have any values. I don't know. I don't know I have some guiding principles. So we call I think I've probably fall. And so I have So one of them is don't run with the pack. of course you want to do something original. in general, everyone is just kind of only If you're really fast, maybe you're going probably you're not going to be the winner things. Think about something that other people way to do things. Now, I've partnered with with people is terrific but you want to partner mentioned, Chern and Sullivan and various David Eisenbud--outstanding people and you you get, you know, partnered up with people And it's--But just to have good choice in try to do that. A third principle is be guided and you know that mathematics is beautiful idea is very pretty and so on and that's a just true in mathematics. There are aesthetics is kind of a beautiful thing. If everything are meshing and it's a good organization, is a--it could be a good guide. The last--well, [inaudible]. Now, sometimes a discretion is say, the hell with it. But--and go on to something made at one time or another. But persistence worthwhile can take a lot of time to come if you believe in something to stick with luck. And that's it. So, thank you very much. [ Applause ] &gt;&gt; We have a few minutes for questions, so &gt;&gt; OK. Who has a question? All right, there's [ Inaudible Remark ] Well, I've not done a lot of things. [ Laughter ] So the question is when do you--do I have And--Well, I don't think I have any wisdom room full of sensible people. And you probably to say no and it's--and in particular, being how to say no because, you know, if you--well OK. Another question? Yeah? [ Inaudible Remark ] I can't hear you. [ Inaudible Remark ] OK. My thoughts on the hedge fund industry think it's--or what's right or what's wrong. When I started this, there were a lot fewer. what they are, is a fund that people invest profits, typically let's say 20 percent and manage the money and then you hopefully will flow--and ebbed and flowed, I don't know what waned, that they've got better and they've seem to be doing all very well. The last two but the markets have--one of the things that's things and they go long and they go short. make that work. If nothing is really moving, of competition in hedge funds. There's an as a whole industry it's not as successful there are certainly some good hedge funds, as I've told you was 100 percent systematic are some and few of them are good. But there trading and, you know, it's a range of approaches. I think, OK? [ Inaudible Remark ] What's the reason-- [ Inaudible Remark ] --on these collaborative goal-driven things? up to be about a third of what we'll do, of find it challenging and enjoyable. It's--Our and it is collaborative has shown me, yeah, And I like working with people and I like to be careful. You understand that the goal like this origins of life. I mean, you know, know the answer which is really what's a completely like that. From first principles how do we making some really nice progress and how this they're also looking at exoplanets and seeing and see what planets might have atmospheres of science will get done and gradually we'll--you So, I like that approach. It's not the only mathematics is to individual researchers and hands or individuals, but I like that. Yes? [ Inaudible Remark ] When I was a kid how did my parents helped question and the answer is they didn't. [ Laughter ] I mean, you know, they thought I was a good I don't think they said, &quot;This boy is going So, I wasn't put into any push in any direction I was not a good homework doer, like I hated &gt;&gt; In your professional life when you look like going earlier in business or before mathematics? &gt;&gt; OK. So would I change anything as I look I don't think I made any huge mistakes in a different path might have led to, but there's I wish I hadn't done that. I mean, there are I wish I hadn't said that or one thing or girl. But in general, no. When I look back [inaudible]--no big change that I would want [ Inaudible Remark ] Wait a minute. OK, you next to speak up. [ Inaudible Remark ] OK. OK, that's a good question. The question they had developed and the ideas are very them or copyright them because people would all the time. The question is if we're developing to sort of share what the general public in [ Laughter ] No. But that's not meant as a joke. That the--There such generality and power that it would be--that It's a very powerful group of people who can but there's nothing but so general that it as far as I know. Yes? [ Inaudible Remark ] Yes. Yes. OK. The question is what are my my thoughts are needs to be better as probably I got interested in this because when I went the beneficiary of a National Defense Education probably ever heard of the National Defense 1957, the whole country went in into spasm. the Russians are going to be beat us. They'll We can't get our satellites up, they got theirs in United States&quot; and they did. They created up the National Science Foundation. When I this but I'm going to give this statistics there were fewer than 100 people in United in mathematics. Ten years later, there were know what to do with them because, you know, in other professions, other area--scientific growth. And we saw a national problem, cold building up our science and we did. We did went up in universities for those kind of young people, and it was a great success. maybe more than 15 years but--and I realized on math, in our schools was really not very economy is becoming far more quantitative more and more things are based on quantitative teachers by and large don't know in particular if you know enough math to be a good high math and something so that you're not just much math and you have the least mental agility you know how to program a computer, you can for Microsoft, you can go to work for Apple. of me. And so--and, you know, you're going to keep someone who actually knows the field like teaching and that's great. But the pullout--so of teaching math, and in fact math and science, kids better and be able to compete in the I know what to do. A friend of mine or a guy just been elected. And part of the reason or whatever it was. Anyway, I was--I was a a little more, but I know it wasn't some future became a friend. And as soon as he got elected an idea, you got to do this.&quot; And I said, teachers a test. If they pass the test, you they'll stay in the schools and people will to get an extra stipend from the--I mean, Act.&quot; He said, &quot;That's a great idea. I'll another group went in about, I don't know, Island and I heard him say [inaudible], &quot;That's [ Laughter ] I'm exaggerating slightly but only slightly. conversations but was nothing going to happen went by and then--actually, MSRI was kind to benefit MSRI. David hooked me up with a financial business. I don't know where you can we benefit MSRI. And one of the guys was and then I say, &quot;Hey, you know--and I like poker tournament?&quot; And we did. And it worked I thought, well, if we're going to do this that really relates more to New Yorkers. I'm year to give money to MSRI which is in California talked them into it the first time but-- [ Laughter ] So then I thought, OK, you know, maybe this the city and just do it ourselves. And so and that raised some money and of course I so that the program was started privately. on to do the same program outside the city up, we have 800 teachers of now math and science thousand and that will be 10 percent of the be part of this core of really knowledgeable and so on and the state is doing the same in the country will take on. The federal government better to work through states. But, you know, I'm sorry. And maybe I'll take one more question. [ Inaudible Remark ] You know--you mean Bourbaki. Yeah. Yeah, Bourbaki. about Bourbaki? Well, it was sort of a--the in the audience? No. [ Laughter ] You know, they're one of the codified, you and England we have common law, the tradition you go by various court cases and that becomes and it's not like that at all. Everything Napoleon wrote this code and, you know, the Bourbaki wanted to get right down to it and of it was pretty good. I'm not an expert on [ Inaudible Remark ] Oh, that's when it went. &gt;&gt; They created it. &gt;&gt; I see. It was actually created at that [ Inaudible Remark ] Will he catch it, will they catch it, or just [ Laughter &amp; Applause ] [ Inaudible Remark ] There's no question and I'm sure the federal friends take not a penny of it as well spent we have to stop. David is going to throw me [ Applause ]