A man runs through the dimly lit His hurried footsteps echo off the He approaches the door to the room in which the The man pauses just outside the entrance to &quot;My Lady, the King is dead,&quot; the &quot;Your daughter is now Queen of Scotland.&quot; On a cold December day in 1542, King James V is her father's lands. Since she is only an infant, until she is old enough to take over the Marie de Guise. She oversees her daughter's Marie de Guise sits around a table of advisors &quot;My lady,&quot; one of the regents starts. &quot;Word has knows of the death of your husband. He is going There are murmurs from the other advisors sitting and the last thing they want is a Protestant like The advisor continues speaking. &quot;We have court will not recognize the current since they are illegitimate in the eyes Henry's proclivity for new wives Marie de Guise nods as she ponders what this But the more pressing concern is what Henry great-granddaughter, Mary is the rightful heir This is the last thing the mad king wants for his to ensure he would have a son to succeed him. &quot;Henry VIII has shown his desperation in an &quot;He has proposed that your daughter Mary and peace to our lands. But as everyone sitting around will not allow a Protestant boy to sully the Marie de Guise is silent for a moment. All eyes her arms. &quot;We will need allies if we are to make My daughter's destiny lies not in Scotland at the There is an unsettling silence among the advisors. but it seems wrong to send the newborn Then again, it may be the only hope for Scotland dangerous for a monarch, especially an infant It would only take a single cunning assassin a few &quot;My daughter will go to France where she will be This will provide her with protection from Henry bond between our two countries,&quot; says to remain independent, we will need France's threat is growing even within our borders. We The council of advisors agrees. Marie de stands up, and walks out of the room to For several years Mary Queen of as she grows and the marriage to Francis is her mother, and several of her close friends for France. They safely dock on the other side are greeted by French nobility. A year later, to Scotland to rule as regent for her daughter tears stream down Marie's face as this could It is still not safe for the young Queen in de Guise is accompanied back to Scotland by her Francis, the second Duke of Guise, and Charles, a powerful enough to keep the Protestants at bay For the next 12 years, Mary is taught by She is treated like one of the royal family Then the happy day finally comes. On April The Scottish-French alliance has now been sigh a breath of relief. But two years into of Scots has enjoyed a relatively safe, carefree One of Mary's closest friends approaches her some terrible news,&quot; her voice trembles. &quot;Your The words get stuck in her throat as &quot;What of Francis?&quot; Mary asks frantically. &quot;He is dead, my lady. The doctors treating his something went terribly wrong.&quot; Mary stands up. Her gaze is far away. She sprints towards the palace where the Mary is only 18 years old and now a widow. Her brother-in-law Charles IX takes over for Mary in this country. It is decided Mary time since she was a small child, Mary Queen Mary doesn't remember much about the land where but what she does remember has all changed. and since she was raised in France as a Catholic, However, most of the country still loves who seek to elevate their status by becoming her Mary finds companionship in not just a friend Lord Darnley, becomes close to the Queen. They and it is decided that the two will wed. and the nobility also knows that the union of the two will strengthen the Stuart claim to the But there is a problem. Many of the and they are less than thrilled about But they don't have to worry for long. Things &quot;Why do you let them push you &quot;I am better than them. I they should just listen to me. I am King &quot;You are married to the Queen of Scotland, Do not forget that,&quot; Mary says to her immature and arrogant. I believe I have made a unfortunately, have to live with until one &quot;I am immature?&quot; Henry shouts. &quot;What about What's his name again? David Rizzio. Don't forget, out of important meetings and decisions, our &quot;I am done listening to your Mary Queen of Scots slams the door as she know how I feel about David? She wonders. Mary She is heavily pregnant, but she must warn Mary searches everywhere but can't has already gone home as it is late. bed-chamber while her husband broods Several days later, Mary is sitting in a with David Rizzio. Sun pours through the The doors to the gallery burst open. Armed Mary watches in horror as one after another The lifeless body is thrown to the She turns to face the entryway. Standing there It is June 19, 1566. The screams of Mary Castle. The screaming suddenly stops. A son James the VI, is welcomed into the and claims that the baby boy is not his. suitable husband, and he certainly Mary finds herself in a terrible position. can't divorce the man without jeopardizing her there may be another way out of this Mary could move on, and her son would not have to This is a dark thought, but Mary knows definitive connection between Mary but all of her problems are about to Henry Darnley starts to feel ill. The doctors He decides to go to Kirk o' Field and recover from whatever is ailing him. as she has no desire to spend more time Henry lies motionless in his bed at Kirk o' Field. that lay just beyond the church. It is beautiful. In the basement is a store of gunpowder, enough The anonymous man lights a fuse Henry is feeling better, so he summons says. The servant nods and grabs Henry's coat. The fuse continues to burn closer The servant opens the door, and Henry steps stroll through the church grounds, climbing to the is quiet and still; there is only a slight breeze. The explosion shakes the Earth. The Henry and his servant fall to the ground; the Henry sits up and looks back at a shape emerges. It is the silhouette When investigators arrive at the pile of smoldering rubble. However, They search the grounds surrounding the in one of the fields is the former king and his It's no secret that Mary and Henry had not been death, she does not seem very distraught, nor does accuse her of conspiring with one of her closest so that she could get out of the loveless Francis II, was and accident. The death of In a move that shocks the nation and the weds James Hepburn in May of 1567, only three Since her previous lovers were dead, the Queen remarrying a third time. However, It seems as if the world is falling country continuously scheme to have her subjects now question her ethics as it appears of her previous husband. And even though things Mary later finds out that James Hepburn He told Mary Queen of Scots that he had been when in fact, he had never gone through Mary has to act quickly. She concocts her and forced her to marry him. In reality, Back-to-back scandals are never good for a Queen, However, this time it is not just Protestants but Catholics as well. It seems as if In June of 1567, Marry and James Hepburn &quot;It's over,&quot; says the leader. &quot;This cannot the world is laughing at us. It is time &quot;No!&quot; screams Mary. &quot;I will come willingly and There is a quiet discussion amongst the will come with us to Loch Leven Castle, Your time as Queen of Scotland is the leader of the nobles says with disgust. Mary looks at James. They have no choices; she soldiers and nobles. James Hepburn watches He notices a few soldiers lingering, and in fear never to see his wife or homeland again. Mary sits in Loch Leven Castle, staring The summer of 1567 is a hot one; sweat been forced to abdicate her throne, leaving The nobles are now in charge of the country is old enough to rule. And by that point, will have shaped the country Mary looks at her stomach and rubs it gently. She had been pregnant with twins Now she sits all alone in her cell with only her outside her window to soothe her. A voice suddenly &quot;My Queen, plans have been set in motion. We are belongs to George Douglas, the brother of Sir Castle and one of the nobles that was in favor is a staunch supporter of Mary Queen of Scots George Douglas opens the door and walks is in charge of the laundry at the castle. &quot;This signaling to the laundress standing next to The former Queen puts on the dress and grabs exit the room and close the door behind them. Mary holds up the pile of dirty laundry identity. They pass several Mary and George exit the castle. They walk quickly The only people at the castle who knew of the plot When Mary steps onto the boat, she and grabs her hand to steady her. laundress's hands are delicate and The captain pulls the laundry away from Mary's He yells for help. Guards from They arrest both Mary and George. Mary is George must answer to his brother. But and Sir William Douglas forgives his younger closer observation. She will never escape the Even though George was caught trying to free He reaches out to his cousin Willie Douglas, who Mary out. In the next escape attempt, Almost a year after being imprisoned in Loch Leven keys at her door. Mary hears the clang of metal The bolt slides back, and the door opens. Standing Sir William Douglas drunk, and when he passed &quot;We need to go before Sir reaching out his hand to Mary. They sprint sneak out one of the back doors, and board a is aware of the escape plan, and Mary Waiting for her at the shore is George they are brought to a gathering of over 6,000 Scots back on the throne. Mary is touched with other nobles and advisors to lay out a The Catholic forces march towards Edinburgh. 1st Earl of Moray at Langside on May 13, the fate of Scotland. Mary watches The Catholics let out a battle cry as Swords clash, shields are broken, arrows fly. the battlefield. After an hour of fighting, the After the battle, Mary Queen of Scots finds She has now not only escaped prison but committed Mary will not be allowed to remain in her Mary had been in communication with her some time now. They have never met, but the two and feel a sort of connection. Mary to England and beg Elizabeth to keep When Mary reaches England and finally things do not turn out according to plan. Queen Elizabeth looks down from her seat of you came all the way to England with no intention my father tried to broker peace between our and left your own people and the people of Now you believe I should protect you when Mary stands tall, but in the back of her mind, she fears the worst. &quot;What are you Elizabeth decides to place Mary under arrest Mary can't believe she is a prisoner had not prepared her for the hardships and her trust in another monarch But the fact that Mary is the English throne means that she has England has been torn apart by the schism and the fact that Henry VIII converted to has left a sour taste in the mouths of many of the see a Catholic monarch back in power in England, Mary has been imprisoned in England for a few is uncovered. Catholic monarchs around Europe see of Spain and the Pope conspire with several and put Mary in her place. On a dark English a Florentine banker, is arrested. He has secret The communications contained information and from the throne. However, no direct evidence is in what comes to be known as The Ridolfi monarch of England to prove a point: any attempt In the years to come, the Catholics will try but with no success. Each plot that is but Mary's involvement is never Elizabeth is frustrated that the Catholics are She knows that as long as Mary lives, At the same time, she cannot justify or the Catholics in the country will revolt and Parliament decide to take a different approach The Privy Council passes the Bond of Association Queen's Safety the following year. Both are assassinate Queen Elizabeth by making it throne if her cousin is eliminated. This It is now 1586, and tensions between the higher than ever. The Babington Plot is uncovered. A man disguised as a servant enters the house stuck here for almost two decades and has against her cousin. &quot;My lady,&quot; the mysterious man You will have to decode it Mary nods. She unscrambles the message. Queen Elizabeth with your approval.&quot; The longer tolerate being a prisoner. She takes &quot;I would like to meet with these men and determine Mary writes back. The disguised messenger leaves puts his foot in the rein, officers burst out his horse and throw him to the ground. His bags In a matter of days, the English authorities what they have uncovered. The Queen is She finally has what she needs to rid herself Mary stands tall and defiant as her trial Mary says, pointing at Elizabeth. &quot;Any a ploy so that Elizabeth can kill me and Mary's words fall on deaf ears as she is Mary enters the execution chamber. The date watch the former Queen of Scotland beheaded. veil covering her face. She is defiant to the She has been a captive for almost 20 years, Mary slowly walks towards the block where the ax resting on the floor. She locks eyes with Mary falls to her knees and places her head face the executioner. &quot;I hope you shall make an &quot;Kill her!&quot; Elizabeth yells. The executioner but he has been thrown off He misses his mark. The blade impales The executioner wiggles the ax back forth The blade comes out of her skull with a ax down again. But in his haste, and the neck is only severed. The crowd and the gruesome scene continues. The The blade goes all the way through Mary's The room is completely silent. as people in the crowd begin to wretch. The picks up the severed head of Mary Queen of &quot;God save Queen Elizabeth! May all the Now watch &quot;Most Evil Queen - Or check out &quot;Bloody Mary&quot; Mary I of England.&quot;