This is a US Navy seaplane flying into a snowstorm just off the coast of Antarctica. Onboard are nine men taking part in a As they approach land the storm gets even worse and the crew lose all visibility until suddenly, bang! The plane hits a mountain It was the most remote plane crash ever in the world's toughest environment. But despite the incredibly harsh conditions, until they were finally rescued. We modeled the entire thing to show you how and the rescue mission that eventually saved them. In 1946, a year after World War II, This unclaimed, vast stretch of land had untapped potential and it seemed that the next war And so in December 1946 of 13 ships, 33 planes and 5,000 men to Antarctica with the secret mission of scouting out the continent setting up bases, and claiming Antarctica as their own. One of the first flights to head out made up of nine young men; two pilots, radiomen, a photographer, and the ship's captain. The journey was rough and the extremely cold weather stopped the plane from getting above 300 meters. After 3 hours, they finally reached the coast but the conditions were now worse than ever and the crew couldn't see anything. The plane's altimeter was getting confused and showed that the crew were still but little did they know and rising quickly. Frenchy the pilot made the call but just as he was about to do this and tore a giant hole in the hull. 5,000 liters of fuel ignited immediately The plane came crashing down, It was a complete disaster. Sadly, both Hendersin and Lopez after being thrown The rest of the crew were alive, but Frenchy was badly burned and could barely move. Fred Williams was even worse with a It seemed almost certain that he would die. Instincts kicked in and the crew immediately set up shelter in the plane's tunnel section which had been ripped apart They found a parachute and to stop the wind and snow from blowing in. After searching through the debris they found sleeping bags, tents mainly consisting of canned meat and soup. Not knowing when or if the crew retreated into Williams was too injured to be moved and so the crew built a shelter around him using a sleeping bag A few hours later, Robbins but he had already drifted off to sleep taken by the cold Antarctic conditions. Now, just six of the crew members remained and their hopes of survival But their supply ship, Pine Island was 500 Km away Back at the ship, the crew of Pine Island began planning a rescue mission. The last bit of data they had but without knowing when the plane went down the crew could have been anywhere. Luckily, they had the data But did you know that your own personal data can easily fall into the wrong hands? Data Brokers buy and sell your who then fill your inbox with spam. The good news is that you and that's where Incogni, They reach out to these and ask them to remove All you need to do is create an account, sit back, relax and watch Incogni do their thing. They contact each company individually I've been using Incogni for months now and my spam emails have Incogni now has a family plan that allows you to also protect your To protect your data and remove spam from your life visit incogni.com/primalspace and use code PRIMALSPACE to get an exclusive 60% off the annual plan. In order to rescue the crew of George 1 and somehow rescue them The weather around the ship and so no rescue missions could be launched. Back on the crash site, the six survivors were slowly freezing to death in a - 20deg blizzard. Frenchy was in a really bad way and his burns meant He was slowly dying of yet thanks to the cold and dry conditions infections which would have killed him by now hadn't spread due to the lack of bacteria. despite all of this Frenchy never complained once and he after some more searching around the debris Robbins found a gas stove by siphoning fuel from He then became the de facto chef for the spinach soup followed by On day four the weather finally cleared and the sun was now showering them in light. Despite the situation they were completely overwhelmed by the sheer beauty of the location. They used this break in the weather to properly bury their dead crew members under the snow. In order to make it easier they placed metal objects inside the graves On day five, the crew of the crash site and would soon be down That day Robbins went and found a camera that belonged to Lopez; the photographer who died in the crash. He took some pictures of the crash site so he wouldn't forget it. On day seven, the weather and a rescue plane left Using the last confirmed location of the plane the rescue team started scanning the ground back and forth in a ladder search pattern. As they reached land, the weather became overcast and any hopes of seeing the crew had disappeared behind a sea of fog. At this exact moment, and said he heard the sound He hadn't heard anything He was simply dreaming about being rescued. But as it turned out, the plan hade actually passed within 20 km of the crew. Over the next few days days and spirits were at an all time low. The crew were desperate, so they created to catch the attention of any nearby plane. Robbins also found some yellow paint and The crew were running out of time but their luck was about to change. On the morning of day thirteen, and the crew were having breakfast which at this point was just a few slices of apricots. All of a sudden, a low Rumble started shaking the ground, getting stronger and stronger until the Pine Island crew The survivors ran out waving their arms in the but without landing gear there was no way for They dropped a note &quot;if you can walk to the lake If you cannot, form a straight line.&quot; They immediately formed a circle before setting out Looking back, their plane was and they realized just how lucky they were The route to the lake was tough pulling Frenchy through the The rescue plane followed dropping occasional supplies to Mark the route and snapping this picture along the way. The plane went on and two men went out to look for the survivors. But suddenly, a thick Bank of fog rolled in leaving both groups completely blind. The survivors knew they were getting closer as they could hear the distant But just as they thought they had made it they came across a 20 meter high cliff, Amazingly, an almost almost as if it had been After carefully making it down onto After two weeks of sheer terror and misery they were finally reunited with their crew. They climbed aboard the rescue plane and all six men It was one of the most and all six men went on to tell the tale. As for the three lost men, they under 80 years worth of ice and snow The camera that Robbins found Its pictures which would no doubt are just waiting to be discovered one day. Sadly, no one has ever returned To learn more about what the check out the page on And now, for the Primal Space giveaway. The winner of the previous giveaway is Alexander. Congrats! In the next video we'll be giving away this Primal Space designed Antarctic poster. All you need to do is sign up at the link below like the video and leave a comment saying Thank you very much for