Over the past few weeks I've talked about solar system, stars (both big and small), brown dwarfs, What do all these things have in common? Well, they -- WE -- all live in the same the Milky Way galaxy. Let's cut to the chase: The Milky Way galaxy gas, dust, and stars; a sprawling megalopolis across and several thousand light years thick. of stars in it, and we're located halfway The disk has two major spiral arms in it, or less in the middle of the galaxy. Located roughly cylindrical collection of old red I know, this is a lot to take in. I'll go this, like with so many other such deep going outside and looking up. If you happen to be in a dark spot on a moonless across the sky. It's brighter in some spots Sagittarius and Scorpius are visible, you'll a bulge apparently bigger than your outstretched This glow's resemblance to a pathway or saw it that way as well. Because it glows Galaxius, or "milky". Over the millennia Way, or (redundantly) the Milky Way galaxy. But what is that glow? It was thought to be name of Galileo pointed his newly crafted that it was actually made up of stars, thousands faint that our naked eyes couldn't see them to create that glow. Clearly, there were far more stars in the eyes. But how many more? And what overall Astronomers reasoned that counting stars in if the galaxy is longer in one direction than direction. Over the centuries maps were made to be oval shaped, or a flattened disk, with This star counting method is a good idea, for interstellar dust! As we saw in our episode from stars, hiding them from our view. It's see the walls. It looks like the room is smaller in the center, even if you're near one of Globular clusters were a good clue that there stars orbit the galaxy well outside the main of them on one side of the sky than the other, distributed in space. The simplest explanation in space, but it was WE who were off-center. years from the galactic center, which was Hey, that's where the glow of the Milky out, too! Coincidence? So at this point things were coming together. a bulge in the middle. The Sun is in that we see it as a broad line in the sky, and in the sky, we see that bulge as a big blob. see more stars looking INTO the disk then But what about the disk itself? Does it have That's hard to determine using visible light. into the disk we can only see about a thousand But with the advent of radio astronomy we emit a very narrow wavelength range of radio Doppler shift, how quickly they were moving basic assumptions, their rough distance could The locations of these nebulae indicated that SPIRAL ARMS; huge, sweeping, curving arms along their lengths. Interestingly, all the young, massive, bright too, with none in the apparent gaps between these massive ones form in giant nebulae, long before exploding as supernovae. If most stars will be too; they don't live long before they explode. Here's where things get a bit weird. You huge collections of stars and nebulae moving that can't be right: If that were the case, the stars and nebulae closer to the galactic arms have been around a while, and AREN'T That's because they aren't actual structures. Think about a highway with heavy traffic on The car behind it slows, and the car behind a wave that moves backwards through traffic, they tend to clump up, too, so you see more The funny thing about traffic jams is, they move out of them. The car at the front might the cars behind it are still moving slowly, every car that leaves the jam at the front, the actual INDIVIDUAL cars come and go, the Spiral arms are the same sort of phenomenon. by some sort of disturbance in the disk, perhaps of giant molecular clouds smash together. like a ripple in a pond, and gets sheared of objects in the disk. Stars and nebulae it, and then resume their merry way once they years to orbit the galaxy, which means it's moved in and out of spiral arms many times That's why spiral arms don't wind up: but the objects themselves are transient. However, there's more to it. A nebula entering in there -- a cosmic fender bender. But when stars. Some of them are massive: luminous, spot at great distances, making the galaxy's the gas around them, accentuating the spiral Spiral arms are where the majority of star the spiral pattern. They're the ultimate After all that, it's actually hard to say been thought to have two for a long time, clusters seems to indicate there are actually Milky Wayologists are still arguing it, but stream off of the major arms as well. Our Sun arms, called the Orion Arm. Mapping the galaxy's spiral arms is ongoing being inside a hurricane and trying to figure out In the center of the galaxy is the bulge. a cylindrical bar of redder stars that's more circular to us. This region is very old; ago, and ceased when the gas ran out. Unlike being born, all the blue stars in the bar of lower mass, redder stars. The bar is probably about 20,000 light years gravity of the galactic disk. Unlike our solar gravity, the gravity of the galaxy is spread stars and gravity means weird structures can and central bars. Unlike the arms, though, the edge make one orbit in the same time as In the very center of the galaxy sits a VERY times the mass of the Sun. This might seem of BILLIONS of stars in it. The central black the galaxy by mass, but we'll learn more it may have played a very big role in our The last component of the Milky Way is its it out to great distance, more than 100,000 halo, but we know the stars in it are old. we do see WOULD be old. It's possible some were flung out into the halo after collisions which, most of the globular clusters orbiting than 150 in total. So, there you have it, our local galactic it's natural to wonder if this is all there of the 20th century, astronomers started to Is the Milky Way THE galaxy, or A galaxy? Oooh, we're about to take a big step here with Better strap in. Starting with the next episode, Today you learned the Milky Way is a disk of billions of stars, with the Sun located has grand spiral patterns in it, formed by stars are born. The central region is shaped There's also a halo surrounding us of old Crash Course Astronomy is produced in association YouTube channel to catch even more galactically Phil Plait. The script was edited by Blake Thaller. It was directed by Nicholas Jenkins, is Michael Aranda, and the graphics team is