I have a bunch of patients who are They've been approved-- They've not been approved. They're waiting and hoping These two doctors have on euthanasia in their country. I think Canada's approach to assisted I am very concerned about medical assistance in dying laws in Canada. Euthanasia became legal in Canada in 2016. They call it "medical assistance in dying" Since then, the number of assisted deaths has risen to over 10,000 people in 2021. That's more people by raw number where assisted dying is legal. In 2021, eligibility for MAID expanded who are not nearing the end And starting next year... that will include people from serious mental conditions, too. Our participants are here to engage in Yeah, that's where you and I I know. Where instead of fighting over we ask each expert to pick three facts that their opponent would have to Dr. Maher, do you agree that I do. Dr. Green, do you agree that Yes, I do. They'll present their facts and to respond with a footnote. And after the fact exchange... we'll also have four additional rounds to further clarify their positions. This is a fact-checked debate in Canada. Here we go. In Canada assisted dying is a rights-based issue... resulting from constitutional court challenges. The legalization of assisted dying voter initiated ballots, as happened or because the government thought Both of which can change with Importantly, these court cases were by people with both terminal and non-terminal illnesses. It is true that court cases... gave people who didn't have the right to have assisted deaths. But one of the plaintiffs Jean Truchon, who had cerebral palsy... when he was considering what he said was that it was that was brought on by the pandemic... that was leading him to So I'm really concerned about for people in Canada... who will make choices to die. Not for medical reasons alone, because of medical reasons but because of social reasons: isolation, loneliness. That worries me a great deal. Jean Truchon ultimately to the new law for assisted dying... because he was about to lose function That was his initial incentive. Ultimately, this comes down to And who, if anyone, My name is Dr. Stefanie Green and I'm a provider of assisted dying I've always been taught about of patient-centered care. And I have found it to be to be involved at this time in their life... and to provide and facilitate There are 15 countries that allow some form of medically assisted dying... Including ten US states and Washington, DC... that allow people with a six month prognosis... to self-administer a prescribed drug. Canada is one of eight countries that allows assisted dying for people without a terminal diagnosis. Next year, it will join most of these countries in extending eligibility to people whose only condition In these countries, cases involving primarily psychiatric conditions are rare. In Belgium and the Netherlands... they made up about 1% of all cases. Canada's assisted dying laws lack the safeguards that There is no requirement that all reasonable treatments at least have been tried by the patient. The doctors are able to There is no review process. There's nobody looking to see whether people in Canada licensed have in fact followed the law Canada rejected paternalism in medicine The Supreme Court decision states that a patient... is not required to undertake medical treatments... that are unacceptable to the individual. We have long accepted that patients Even if the result of that refusal is death. There's actually a very rigorous process in place for this assisted dying model. There's a number of eligibility criteria, there are on top of that, a number of Of course, we're in complete agreement that paternalism is not a good thing and every Canadian is free But when we're talking about assisted death we're talking about choices made when a person is profoundly vulnerable. My name is John Maher. I'm a psychiatrist with a community in Ontario, Canada. My goal is to help my patients live their lives the way they want... and to do all we can to ensure and all that follows from that from living full, rich lives. There was an initial concern that people would request assisted dying... because they couldn't access palliative care. But the data has put that fear to rest. Over 80% of the people who receive MAID are receiving palliative or hospice care For those few who are not... 88% of them have access Compare that to the wider and all causes of death when statistics suggest that only a minority of people palliative care before they die. The data that you're referencing... comes from the forms that are filled out and it tells us nothing, nothing at all, about the quality We also know from the data you're citing who received MAID had palliative care While it's true, we don't have for the quality of palliative care received. What we do know from lots of data... is that since MAID was legalized we have a significant increase in the funding for research for palliative care in the number of people receiving and The vast majority of people who are patients with a cancer diagnosis. The next most common underlying illness are end-stage organ failures. So end-stage heart disease end-stage lung disease, and neurologic conditions, The wait times for MAID are shorter than the wait times to get a lot of specialized services. That might be pain clinics, long-term care homes, supportive housing, community-based care. That's not right. My job as a MAID provider requires me by law to ensure that my patients have been offered that could potentially reduce their suffering. I agree we need to but at some point when potentially are not reasonably available we can no longer hold individuals hostage It seems to me that we're talking about here that's willing to help its citizens die... rather than provide the services... that we know help, that we know reduce suffering. Killing people while is profoundly immoral. National polls consistently show that the Canadian public supports This includes people who self-identify as religious and people These polls were conducted to allow assisted dying, in the first five years of legalized practice... and in every year since the amendment outside the end of life context. Two polls that asked Canadians about their views on MAID came back with very different results. One poll showed over 60% of Canadians in favor. Another poll, one in particular looking showed that only 31% of Canadians I don't think Canadians have of what is happening. But those organizations that are and drawing attention to it namely the 137 disability organizations in Canada... the national indigenous organizations... the mental health organizations, everyone who is looking at this what is going on is gravely concerned... about the discriminatory impact Canadians have been talking about assisted dying since the 90s. There are multiple reports, multiple news stories, to suggest that Canadians are unaware is not exactly fair to There is no consensus among Canadian psychiatrists on when any particular psychiatric illness And under the law that comes into effect a psychiatric illness must be incurable and a person must be in a state But we can't say who that is. Consensus in health care There is no consensus amongst doctors... about whether they can a prognosis of six months. Yet it's an eligibility requirement in several countries, including However, in Canada, for MAID to proceed... two independent clinicians that the patient's condition is incurable. When someone has a terminal illness... say cancer, we have of how long they might live. May not be precise, but we have In mental illness, we have no idea. People get better after five years, These are very, very different conditions... very different circumstances. Now, we'll move on to the additional rounds. Questions. Personal experiences. Debunk. Uncertainties. Stefanie, can you ask that helps clarify his position? John, do you believe every person with a mental health disorder Because if not and they have capacity... should they not be allowed to access available to everyone else? We both know the majority of people have full capacity. They can make their own To answer your question, I don't think that's the right question. The question is, can we Can we help people cope There are certainly going to be people whose illness will not get better, But can we mitigate their experience Can we bring support... care, compassion, and love that makes their life for them I'm not talking about denying anyone... the option of choosing MAID. To be frank, everyone can already What we're working to do is to ensure that every person is treated provided with care and support... that we know can help Okay, John, would you like Only one in three Canadians have access to mental health care Only one in five children. We know from disability organizations that disability supports are to live a meaningful life. People are suffering... in ways that we can do I'm asking you... would you support providing MAID while they're waiting for treatment or care... that could help them? But it's down the road a bit. I would happily stand with you and call for our government to do better I think it's a separate issue. There can come a time, Every situation is individual, and every case needs to be There may be a time is available, too far away, much too expensive, inaccessible to the patient. In this case, we have to seriously consider not holding them hostage to society's failing and to consider offering MAID if it's truly what they need. A tough situation. I grant you that. John, can you tell us something that has strengthened your conviction As a psychiatrist... who works with a community supporting people with the most serious We are becoming overwhelmed... by what MAID has introduced... into our clinical worlds. I have patients who are already saying... "I'm going to stop treatment." "I'm not going to keep trying." "I can die." Our efforts to help them stick with and sometimes long-term treatment is being undermined. We're not just doing suicide prevention anymore. We're doing MAID prevention. I'm going to tell you about who was 62 years old And Ray had been asking for MAID And as he and I worked through at some point, I was able and tell him he was eligible And when I sat there and did that, a physical transformation, which I've learned almost every time. I saw his shoulders relax. I think I saw him smile for and it was immediately followed by for the mere possibility. He decided to proceed with MAID and we held it not long after, of the facility in which he was living. And as is required by law I was seeking his final consent before I administered the medication. He was surrounded by his friends... and as he gave me that consent he reached out and grabbed my hand. He looked at me and he said, "I know this is going to but I think you saved my life." And it reminds me all the time... that for the people who actually need it is tremendously important. Stefanie, what is one piece of that you've heard about MAID Recently, a number of eye catching headlines have appeared in the news assisted dying due to the threat or the fact that they're And while it's true that for an assessment of eligibility for MAID... and those unacceptable social inequities might be contributing towards suffering. The law is actually perfectly clear MAID based on those factors alone. John, would you like to clarify Some MAID providers have argued that MAID... for non-terminal conditions... is not suicide. For decades, suicide as taking steps to arrange Some have said that what makes MAID is that it's well thought out. It's not impulsive. But in fact, in one US survey of 80% of people reported that they thoughtfully planned Which means that we have to consider where it fits into all of our and whether it undermines those And now for a round called Uncertainties. John, what is something about this issue that we need Canada currently collects data... on the illnesses-- the physical illnesses that lead to What we don't have is data... that considers the socioeconomic reasons And how significant an impact... that might have on the request and perhaps whether it drives it completely. We don't know whether poverty, being on a waitlist for treatment... being refused disability benefits... we don't know why... people are choosing MAID On this point, John, I think we're Canada has recently expanded gathering on patients who And I'd be curious to see if it mirrors from international jurisdictions. Everywhere where this data we know that it is the who are accessing assisted dying not the socially disadvantaged. So I'll be curious to see in the Canadian context, which is what That said, I think we do of how people describe and therefore why they're requesting MAID. Primarily, it's for people who can that bring meaning to their lives... who no longer are able to do what we call the who've lost a sense of dignity And I think if we could find research that would help us better understand... what leads to that type potentially there's a way I'm concerned about this law... having, I'll acknowledge, but profoundly disturbing consequence... of having people feel like and that they should choose That they should no longer demand of their government, that care and support be provided. Having spent time with many suffering individuals, that Canadians are extremely grateful In a testament to the quality of care not a single person has been charged I think Canada's approach is more than adequate. It is solid. It is good, and for some, for considering care