Have you ever asked "what is beyond the And have you ever been told that an infinite You were told wrong. In a sense. We can define a boundary to an infinite universe, And it turns out that boundary may be as real Our universe may be infinite. In order to wrap our puny human minds around For example we have the "observable universe" which light has not yet had time to reach It's boundary is called the particle horizon. Beyond it there exists at a minimum of thousands as large. Our observable universe is like a tiny patch We define its horizon like we might build - meaningless from the point of view of homey and us less crushingly insignificant. We visited these cosmic horizons in one of To review: the particle horizon defines the cosmic event horizon defining the limit of But these correspond to actual spherical boundaries How mundane. There's another way to define the boundary face of an infinite cosmos. In fact, if we twist our human intuition and our picket fence around an infinite universe. A mathematical boundary at infinity turns in physics, but may be as real as the physical It may encode that universe as a hologram In today's episode we're going to talk and this will set us up finally for laying I promise! Let's start with a quick review of types At least the three basic types described by The only type of non-infinite universe - or back on itself - like a 3-D analog of the We call that positive curvature. Travel far enough and you get back where you Geometry is a bit broken in such a universe converge and cross each other. In general relativity we call a universe with astronomer Willem de Sitter. Then there's the flat universe - classic, stay parallel - and it goes on forever. In GR this is Minkowski space, after Hermann Einstein's. Finally there's the universe with negative hyperbolic surface, like an infinite saddle In this geometry parallel lines actually diverge In GR this is anti-de Sitter space because curvature de Sitter space. Terrible name, so we abbreviate it AdS space. OK, so 2 out of 3 possible universes are infinite. On the other hand, assuming all these types in infinite universes compared to people in You're probably one of the former, so let's assume we're in one of the infinite ones. How do we put bounds on infinity? This all got going in the early 60s when physicists -to the edge of an infinite universe or Regular coordinates of space and time are Physicists found mathematical ways to fuse the infinities. We call this process compactification. The first efforts were designed to allow physicists - mathematically. We have Kruskal-Szekeres coordinates, Eddington-Finkelstein But these coordinates only defeated the artificial the event horizon - also something we've It was Roger Penrose who defeated the true In the early 60s he developed his Penrose known as Penrose-Carter diagrams, for Brandon time. We've used these before to understand black conceived to understand the boundaries of As a quick review: start with a graph of space compactify. These horizontal-ish contours are our old the universe, while the vertical-ish lines dimension. The contours bunch up towards the boundaries and more space and time. The boundaries themselves represent infinite One amazing thing about the Penrose diagram angles - all angles between intersecting We call such a transformation "conformal". Remember that word - it's going to be This particular conformal compactification ray of light remains at 45 degrees across That means only lightspeed paths can hope light speed paths can originate from these Any sub-lightspeed paths, which means anything of space. All matter must originate at this point representing also converge to this point which represents Only lightspeed paths - or in the language can access these diagonal boundaries. If we write the equations of these fields we can do something that seems impossible distance and calculate its behavior there. That has a very particular use. Penrose diagrams represent a universe that some local curvature due to gravity of massive simple rules of non-curved, Minkowski spacetime That's handy because flat space is the only The most famous use of this is by Steven Hawking, He connected a quantum field between two points he could define the state of the quantum vacuum Then he placed a black hole in between these balance of a quantum field traced between He found that two "infinitely distant" state if a black hole lay between them. He concluded that the black hole must generate Which, by the way, was a key discovery on we've discussed before and which I'll Today we're just talking about boundaries boundary to give us our hologram. Penrose diagrams define the infinite boundary For the holographic principle we need the - an anti-de Sitter, AdS universe. Let's start with another map. Just like the Penrose diagram we'll do a angles preserved, and will compactify layers But this time we're not mapping space versus hyperbolic space. In fact, let's use the most famous conformal That's right, there is a most famous conformal you've probably seen it. This is M.C. Escher's Circle Limit IV - the final in of hyperbolic plane called the Poincare or The basic construction is straightforward Now fill it with a set of circle segments angles. Those circle segments represent the straight the disk. We can see the hyperbolic behavior these arcs paths in the geometry. Any two paths that are parallel at one point This is a conformal transformation of a hyperbolic of these lines are preserved, and it's compactified on a finite disk, with lengths represented The other feature of a conformal mapping is We see that when we fill the circle with a They define a set of enclosed shapes that This is an example of tessellation - tiling Hyperbolic space is fascinating because there with regular polygons, while spheres and flat of possible tessellations. So this disk can represent an infinite anti-de at a single instant in time. Each tile represent the same size region of The boundary is infinitely far away and looks If we wanted to represent a 3-D AdS universe But the real power of AdS space isn't the At least to physicists. It's the nature of the infinite boundary. Here's a mouthful: the boundary of a conformally-compactified Minkowski space with one fewer dimension. Got it? Cool, we'd done here. OK, let's unpack that. In fact let's add the dimension of time Stack a bunch of Poincare disks - each representing They give you a cylinder and representing dimensions - let's call that 2+1 dimension. On the other hand the surface of the disk - and the same one-D of time - 1+1. Right. So it turns out that the surface of the cylinder coordinates of the interior volume - is mathematically You can extrapolate to any number of extra ball. Compactify it so you the infinite boundary Minkowski plain. And the crazy thing is that you can treat - also called the "bulk" - as separate But they are connected. Every point on the flat surface maps to a - remember those circle arcs? Patterns on the surface define the structure In 1997 Argentinian physicist Juan Maldacena these spaces. He realized that if you define a conformal Minkowski space, that corresponded to an interesting AdS space. That structure looked exactly like a string This is the AdS/CFT correspondence. Quantum mechanics in the form of a conformal gravity in a space with one higher dimension. The hologram part is because the lower dimensional distant boundary of the higher dimensional Every particle, every gravitational effect on an infinitely distant surface. OK, I'm going to have to cut us off here. The deeply abstract relationship between these Stay tuned for the final installment of the future of spacetime. Last week we enjoyed another potential end Rip - in which space tears itself to shreds in dark energy. Your excitement at our possible doom really Many of you asked what happens to black holes That's... a great question. So I thought that the answer was that black After all, if space is expanding faster than the light-speed flow of space into the event and the black hole to dissolve. Some internet physicists agree with my intuition. But I also read an interesting take by Alan he suggests that the shrinking cosmological to produce a global state where everything Chris Hanline wisely notes that dark energy That's sort of true - except that the law range of validity - it's valid in systems global properties of the spacetime don't evolve In fact conservation of energy comes from However our universe on its largest scales the past looks very different to the future. In its most familiar form, conservation of be created from nothing. Some have argued that energy is conserved negative potential energy of the cosmic gravitational just different interpretations of the math. Swole Kot asks if the last months in the big experience for any sentient life still around Well it wouldn't be great, that's for sure. After some millions of years watching the destruction of the solar system would happen There's going to be an unpleasant period between the destruction of atom sized things where But I guess the painful part would be when disrupt the way chemistry works, without actually Our bodies are pretty dependent on chemistry to hours of bad times as our molecules start To make matters worse, the Earth would be It's like 2012 meets World War Z meets Chronicles Guys, I think we just sold a movie.