On November 25th, 2008, a Flash development a game that would eventually be completely who found and utilized a multitude to collectively set 40 Any% world records. why it's important, and how it came to be, In 2004, a graphic designer named Mat Annal games with little creative control. So, he named Heather Stancliffe with the idea to found Heather was initially reluctant, mainly since she eventually obliged, and on August 10th, 2004, was a Java mobile game named Chick Flick, where a trampoline to bounce some chickens into the down version of Flash called Flash Lite started Adobe's acquisition of Macromedia, the original put together an extremely basic Flash Lite game with some weird alien looking characters. To have Nitrome continued to make commissioned Flash Gromit. However, they still lacked the capital decided to cancel it by the end of the year. fledgling mobile game scene, the Nitrome crew which had a much wider potential reach and money thanks to the sponsorship opportunities Kongregate, ArmorGames, and more. With Mat's Nitrome had the resources necessary to make their December 6th, they released Hot Air, a game where balloon through 25 levels while dodging various basic, Hot Air's most defining features were its music, written by someone named Lee Nicklen. While utilize pixel art as opposed to bitmap or vector that did just didn't have this level of polish. brand that would set their games apart from the propagate with their next release, called Sandman, to guide some sleepwalkers back to bed, clearly Nitrome decided to make some lemonade out of their From there, they just continued with their fleshed out games, with Mat and Jon doing art the music. By mid-2007, Nitrome had created over the inevitable and released their first sequel, expansion of the original game. Two releases Hazmat Hero who is trying to destroy a radioactive green acid. This game, of course, was called of hazards, including spikes, lasers, acid, and each level, it is necessary to use an assortment the light gray ground. However, this must be done from bombs and hazards before dying, and there pool at the bottom will also result in an instant aside from just beating each level, there are a And, speaking of bounties, as a result of the past 3 years, I have had the ability to distribute dozens of people in the Flash game speedrunning truly incredible moments and accomplishments. some sizable bounties to help kickstart Toxic This video is sponsored by Surfshark VPN, all of your internet traffic, masking both your IP clutch while making this very video. In case you able to throttle your traffic from any source, at any time. I experienced this firsthand when seconds to load, which was significantly impacting by using Surfshark to change my IP and location, it is absolutely essential to use a VPN to using public Wi-Fi networks, which can often you want is for a man-in-the-middle attack hub for scam cryptocurrency live streams. So, privacy and security more seriously, and use or click the link at the top of the description. so there is no risk in trying it out. Thank you So anyways, Toxic was certainly a unique 2D but it had some aspects that held it back clunky movement mechanics, and the overreliance level. With more polish, it certainly had and thankfully, a year later, Nitrome a full-fledged sequel, Toxic Similar to Hot Air's sequel, Toxic named Bigfoot and Mother. However, dissimilar complete overhaul of the original game. Everything the graphics were a lot more polished, the conveyor belts and temporary platforms were added, accessed by finding secret blue teleporter cells had a much more intentional function, the game's 30 levels, with plenty of them level had at least one defining feature that which is usually referenced in the title that and closing cutscene that better showcased its factory to destroy whatever is controlling the which turns out to be the Mother boss that a huge step up over the original by almost every meant that it certainly had a lot of potential would only grow as casual players quickly Indeed, a large portion of the videos of this showing off various glitches and exploits that RunningFromMyShadow demonstrated that, in level blocks show up, the player will just start below if nothing is done. Alternatively, you pressing the jump key, and if a crouched position The next day, perdr showed off that it is by just throwing more bombs into its cavity right reopening the cavity, allowing the cycle to The same day, Darkbones99 exited the level with a well-timed jump. This of course, only as you cannot damage Bigfoot while outside you unfortunately aren't able to exit early to reach the teleporter to go to the next However, a far more exciting development RunningFromMyShadow showcased a pretty huge to platform to the right, place a bomb against and then platform upward and to the left to that you can just do this right near the start. is extremely simple to pull off. When you start direction to initiate a wall jump instead immediately start moving back towards the wall, land higher up on the wall than where you started, as needed. Because of how dead simple this is to not, but regardless, it allowed for level 1's to potentially under 15 seconds, and it was Other glitch and exploit videos continued to could be performed in level 9, killing a stand on air glitch when starting the a way to cheese the Bigfoot fight by scaling the and the ability to not immediately die in there were tons of people showing off speedy However, despite all this interest in Toxic 2's a full speedrun of the game. This was the era 11 minutes long, which just wasn't enough have been doing runs on their own, but there it wouldn't be until 8 years later, 2016, that On May 11th, 2016, a runner named Emericus 14 minutes and 49 seconds. This would ultimately runner named Qazedt, eventually stalling with Content with his time, he decided to move on to it, he claimed a 1:22:04 on July 21st, which he properly routing the game. He closed things off by hadn't recorded any of his runs, and a leaderboard So let's fast forward to 2017, which is the year as I competed with dha for records in who was aware of my newly found hobby, showed good at playing when he was younger, namely Super this is the same friend that would go on to draw, screen right now, a character that has essentially I had played SM63 in the past, but I had never that matter, likely due to the site being blocked sitting down to play the game for the first time, out the wall scaling shortcut in level 1 on my fluid movement, and I instantly knew that it got the chance to play through Toxic 2 casually, apply wall scaling and other movement techniques 21:05 on August 22nd, which implemented quite a shortcut in level 1, skipped activating two sets wall cheese strat in the Bigfoot boss fight, and you are supposed to explode bombs in these the player is able to walk on. However, with later in the level, I was able to reach the end a frame perfect wall scale was used here in and a normal scale on the spike wall was used blocks. Another important theme to note is the enemies, and bomb explosions whenever possible, The run was complete garbage, with me losing over needed something to be able to get the game added on to create a Discord server that served as a hub which is how I learned about Emericus' unrecorded The same day that Emericus had posted that image, server, who had been running Skywire for the Nitrome in 2007. Conor was originally set on ever speedrun before to build out a nice 1st place after seeing that Toxic 2 had some activity, a go. While I was slowly whittling my time me and leaped into the first place spot with a similar strategies to the 21:05, but Conor had he placed three miner bombs on the ground near which is supposed to skip a bomb placement later a sliver of ground that he still had to optimal way of doing level 8, where you wall taking damage boosts from the lasers. Finally, in instead of doing the cheese strat, which ended a 3-way record competition between myself, and with the game still having the potential to go next minute barrier, sub 14. However, before the new wall clipping method in Toxic 2 that looked After digging out this area at the start of while facing the left. To my surprise... the didn't know what was going on at first, but after player was now stuck on the roof. This strategy, was made possible thanks to an oversight with floor snapping. At most times, there are three middle and right, that the game is checking for to be within the ground, the game checks a line a floor is found in that 100-unit range, the game necessary to ensure that the player doesn't just by a pixel or two, which happens quite frequently. the player immediately starts falling through the starting a pixel inside of the teleporter. You quite problematic. The problem arises in the fact player and an entire block combined. If the game the player is right below a block, they will be the game only checks whether the top of the 6, and 12 pixels away from the center in let's represent the region where the game is You may be able to see the problem here. As long ceiling upon jumping while facing the opposite ceiling. Once the player has clipped far enough realize that it is inside of a wall, and once check will start being executed every frame. stand on within this region, the ceiling, Unfortunately, the areas in the game that few and far between. In fact, on my first in any of the game's 30 levels where the glitch it simply remained in the back of my On September 23rd, 2017, I claimed my first record having slightly better execution of the same with him nailing the early bomb strat in level the end of level 15. The run was easily on pace he sadly died after getting caught in the boss' first person to get a sub 14 would end up being struggled a bit in level 8, had an extremely level 11, and he took things safe in level 15 which cost around 5 seconds. Conor snapped back level 13 that cost over 15 seconds. Certain that run, Conor became the first to firmly declare that goal that everyone was going for. Emericus was the which incorporated the risky wall scale in 15 and bit of time, something which unfortunately Conor snapped back with a 13:06 on October 4th, I finally set another record on October 8th with of time in the level 10 boss fight doing... nothing. at the boss fight to realize that if you manage to its first phase of shooting acid onto the floor, the boss just won't die, and subsequent hits level. This run also had the potential to be but I screwed up the bomb throws at the start, Conor at a 13:06, and Emericus at a 13:16, the next day, October 9th, I would as I put together a 12:52, which led all Still, three days later, I finally found a use almost a month ago. At this spot in level 16, of platforming, saving just a few seconds. But... draw people back to the category. In February, marathon, I got a 12:23, a run which implemented spike platform to the upper section, coined to mess around with the game, I finally solved a for quite a while. People noticed that bomb sound after attempting to throw bombs during the chalked this up to just being some kind of visual one day, when I was messing around with runner activate the explosion at any point after throwing likely that the bombs were actually somewhere find that they were, for some reason, being throw velocity maintained. I thought that this was runs. That was... until I thought of level 16. The with the ledges being just one block too high I realized that bomb displacement made it possible boost from the explosion while at the peak height A strategy that could save almost 15 seconds. to hit it just once, so it would likely be Bomb displacement works because of a pretty funny states that the game allows you to throw bombs, a point is defined on the sprite that tells the the spacebar is pressed. If a bomb is thrown or dying, the action is supposed to be canceled. is not actually the internal state that the getting damaged causes a small jump of sorts, the the action goes through... but there's a problem. for where thrown bombs are supposed to come out it gets NaN in return, which eventually leads level, which is the top left corner. The code for On March 1st, Conor came back with a record worse level 14 and a much better levels 16 and 17. quite horrible to say the least. 15 seconds would go for the bomb displacement strategy I saved time in 17, golded 18, got fast 19, and had a decent boss fight. 12:06. A and me and Conor desperately wanted to I would win the sub 12 race by getting an 11:59 and 19. I was, however, assisted by hitting a Conor, and by placing some bombs here in also found by Conor. Later that day, Conor but the second set of bombs that he placed down with a 12:04. Even later that same day, I set an a category where you unlock and complete all ten A few days later, I found myself sitting in 10. It had long been realized that if there were the level before initiating the boss fight, it before it closed and skip the entire thing. This have to be performed a lot higher than the floor the left wall might just do the trick, but this impossible to even attempt. However, while I That crevice... the solution was staring us right in I held down the right button, and landed on the skip was real, it saved almost a minute, and was a crouch to get stuck in the crevice, and a jump. Sometimes, a right tap wasn't slightly clipping inside the pipe from the a pretty lackluster 11:13 with the skip, and The next day at school, I started poking around the ceiling, because it was also known that doing without having to fight the boss. Unfortunately, thick just didn't yield a conceivable way to but it was unfortunately 2 blocks thick, so no right while clipped into the pipe and noticed I was before, as that collision box had shifted enough height to upwarp... but I had the thought damage boost at the peak of my turnaround The camera was bounded by the right arena movement offscreen, but I eventually managed without fighting the final boss. I noted that was going if the game window was expanded far an unintended abuse of Flash Player itself to a rule was added to the leaderboard that the game After realizing that Mother's laser could be used save up to 15 seconds, not nearly as much as the With sub 11 more viable than ever, I immediately a run that was ahead of my 11:07 into level milestone, but I got "bad RNG" with the laser, which was needed for the trick, so I had to back I ended with a 10:57, breaking a new minute I later realized that the 20 skip wasn't RNG at the screen the player was on when the laser was counterclockwise. This revelation allowed me to 16, or 19. These three strategies, which came the three hardest in the game, saved around half would go for fast 16 in all future Any% attempts, I noticed that this spot in level 17 was something that I, once again, found during power cell room beyond the secret teleporter, level backwards for a bit to reach the normal However, compared to the upwarp in level 20, turnaround window was much tighter, it was harder laser, all combining to easily make it the hardest had a new member, and combined, the 4 strategies The next day, I got a 10:14, just including the also hitting fast 19. Four days later, I got a run damaging off of the robot on the right to displace hitting an even faster 19, I entered level 20 at I unfortunately got lost offscreen and finished This whole time, while I had pushed the game to new discoveries that I had found, Thankfully, Conor had also found a way to take in the entire game... to one of the easiest, by pad as opposed to the left side of the ground player always hit the explosion at the peak getting a wall slide on the left ledge was reclaimed the record with a 9:42.867 after hitting 17 by reincorporating the early bomb placements. upwarp in level 14 that saved around 2 seconds, it mainly served as a possible way to revive discovery would come on May 1st, when I showed It had been observed for quite a while that segments of wall by running towards them at full This was usually utilized to avoid having to place bit too short to allow the player to pass through is because the invisible boundary that determines expands with the sprite when the player crouches. the game applies the appropriate amount of the player from clipping out of bounds. Note when crouching next to a solid wall from a this check if the player has zero velocity. wall is thin instead of solid and the player is crouch a frame before colliding with the wall. On collision boundary instantaneously moves to being of velocity from the player and then checks because the boundary is not touching the wall, forward by 10 units. The process repeats, moving finally 2, placing the player squarely inside of test point on the bottom is found to be inside of falling through the floor, skipping around The day the skip was found, I incorporated it sum of best now being an 8:48, it was clear thanks to the new discovery, and it became sights upon. Conor came back with a 9:27.6 on May a substantial improvement wouldn't come finally reincorporating fast 9. He was also and going down with the wheel robot in level 11 I got a 9:10.667 without fast 9 or 19, which The race to this final minute barrier was Emericus had the first sub 15 and sub 14, and I sub 11, and sub 10. After almost a year of close finally have a minute barrier to himself. absolutely on sub 9 pace if he hits and loses some time on the slower path. He a massive world record by over 10 seconds, but a run that is just barely sub 9 pace entering Taking a page out of level 4's new strategy, I the start of the level, making it much easier to stand on the thin wall here because it doesn't standing in this position. By walking forward, the causing the player to fall through the floor. to clip through the pocket here after doing Conor due to my sloppy gameplay afterwards, even without fast 19. Level 18 was fine, but level May 15th, Conor gets a run that starts off poorly, new strategy and enters level 19 barely on it's just a bit too sloppy, and he opts to not 9:01.733. Just short again. Thankfully, later that In three months, Toxic 2's Any% record almost 4 minutes erased. The upwarps in levels 10, some other movement optimizations, and, of to completely revolutionize this game. Thanks to and quite a bit of luck, Conor and I completely transforming the game's Thankfully, this wave brought massive improvements bonus level that is filled to the brim with at the player if not disposed of. Optimally, it normally, but it is extremely easy to die right the worst level in the run. However, I eventually teleporter is not too far above this patch just maybe it was possible to remove ground in upwarp to the ending teleporter possible. Well, on I completed the level in around a minute, cutting discovery even larger than the bigfoot skip in even harder than it was before. Thankfully, record 9 days later. On March 3rd, 2019, I found saved over 10 seconds, but that one has actually glitches and exploits used in All Levels and basically the entire level, bomb displacement falling off the right side of level 6 to reach the dig out this wall, an upwarp in 12 to reach the in level 4 that is used in 100% to skip a lot Still, by the end of 2018, the game had up going for sub 9, and I was finished playing nothing happening, and 2020 almost did as well. got his redemption by claiming the game's first He figured out that a crouch slide could be used slightly larger, and he did finally hit fast 19 majorly improved the All Levels and 100% records, 2021 was another dead year, but in mid-2022, there individual level leaderboard, with runners like game's movement beyond what had been seen in some IL runs in late 2022. By March of 2023, I had and when I created a segmented run of the records to find out that the time came out to a 7:55, realistic, it is indeed theoretically attainable. to Any%, and 4 records later, I pushed the record stands today. In this run, I implemented IL run by Conor back in 2018, where you throw squatting to ensure that they are placed in the rest of the timesave over Conor came from some through the blocks here as they reappear in level an 8:2x is absolutely attainable, and an 8:1x Despite only three speedrunners having ever by far, become the Nitrome game with the richest and glitch discovery standpoint. Out of the 146 over 90 are tracked on speedrun.com, Toxic distinct brokenness and the number of historic that's not to say that there aren't any other While I don't have the time to give every some clear standouts are Colourblind, which is speedrun skips, Bad Ice Cream, which has seen co-op caetegories, and Flipside, which is a racing level standpoint. Conor has definitely made specialist, as he currently has some extremely such as Colourblind, Hot Air, Skywire, and Nitrome speedrunning is currently in a decent and, unfortunately, that is partially The vast majority of Nitrome's flash game was commonly utilized to prevent random people host it on a website without working out a proper URL of the website that it is being played on, the game will refuse to load. These measures are the game and modifying the code, and, in fact, of the game with the URL lock removed, allowing to prevent having to modify the code for every Flashpoint, which is a program that allows people standalone player, has a built in URL spoofer that it is being played on the original website entirely. Nitrome's entire catalog used which was great for speedrunners, but in February be removed from the platform. Nitrome, instead, website beyond the death of Flash Player on the just 62 of Nitrome's 146 web games are available performance and game-breaking issues, including look past all of that and still do speedru... oh. Nitrome's fantastic Flash games is to manually is quite convoluted and requires a lot more double-clicking a .swf file. It's really not much people consistently speedrun nowadays are their they began to occupy in the mid to late 2010s Sadly, there currently are a lot of barriers to unfortunate considering the fact that Nitrome it is on us speedrunners to continue to try playing these games as frictionless as possible. Emericus, who used the extremely powerful wall minutes. Once me and Conor came along in 2017, game being completed in under 13 minutes, as each However, once an application for the upwarp the floodgates of discovery suddenly opened. Over applications for upwarping and clipping, and ways to make the run more consistent. By turning by almost 4 minutes in that short span, and in the seconds. At first glance, Toxic 2's leaderboard having ever touched the Any% category: Me, Conor, holder in Toxic 1 with an 11:53. However, if you can get a small peek into the storied history full-game runs per runner is pretty insane. of Toxic 2 to end, which is why I am extremely next 20 people to get a sub 10 minute Any% run the next 10 people to get a sub 9 minute if you get a sub 9 while there are still slots total. Finally, and this is my favorite one, the who isn't me or Conor will receive $1,000. I find improve the current record of 8:32.8, which would timing is certainly of the essence for the record I would recommend getting started as soon something. To qualify, any runs must be performed have recorded video evidence with sound on the game's speedrun.com leaderboard. Links to the speedrun version download, the Any% tutorial, the game's speedrun.com page can be found in the that will track this whole competition, so you live. Also, remember to click my Surfshark link for this one, so thank you to Conor and Emericus for learning about the tale of Toxic 2. It's up