[no audio] Did you always know you from the time you started college? What was your trajectory? I should know this, but I... [E.J. chuckling] You were an undergraduate at? At Princeton. studying? Math. So, you could've just done all your work with a piece of paper and a pen, but you had to try and [E.J. chuckling] and paper, pen. I took a very random route. I studied math as an undergrad. I spent a few years running and traveling, and living a bohemian life. Well, tell me more about that. Oh, I basically just told you Following The Grateful Dead? No, not quite following them, but that was an important and inspired my music. of your personal development? Yes. Very much so. Free expression, dance, music, creative, exploratory music, Such a contrast to the when we're talking about the precision of neural stimulation in specific but I think it's useful both young and old, like, can be partitioned into to, like, go and dance and travel, and you weren't doing anything No, for a few years, I wasn't doing that. Programming computers to make a living, and then I started three before I settled. No, no, no. Oh my goodness. I started in the math PhD program. I learned that was not really for me, and I started in a economics PhD program in the business school there, and I realized after less than I worked in a startup company for a while, I did a lot of stuff for a few years, and took some settling, but then I decided to and there were a couple formative things. One is that I had gotten a as an undergraduate from a who taught an introductory who was really inspiring mentor. And when I was at Stanford, my PhD advisor, and I was inspired by him. I thought, I didn't what he was studying, but I just knew I wanted and I wanted to study with him. I just knew this was the Based on something about him? Yes. about these three PhD programs? Because I think people here, you know, or see what you're doing, and probably imagine a [E.J. chuckling] like, toured around playing music, then you start a PhD program, nope, then another one, nope, then another one. Without getting into all the details, I mean, were there thinking, like, &quot;What am I Or did you have the sense that you knew you wanted to do something important, you just hadn't found Like, how much anxiety, 10 being total panic, did you experience at the apex of your anxiety Am I allowed to go above 10, like turning up the amp to 11? Sure, I just think it's really important for people to hear, Whether or not they want this idea that people that in the world, in my view, rarely, if ever, understood that that's the thing that they were going to be doing. There was some wandering about. That sure seems like it, doesn't it? Yeah, I experience the same and it seems like that, It just took a while of to see, number one, what and where I felt I and I realized I studied but I know, I have known mathematicians who are really talented, the one who really make a difference. I wasn't going to be one of those people. Likewise, playing music. I don't have that intrinsic talent. It's fun, I can play songs in I like it, and stuff like that, but I don't have that kind of talent. In fact, I'll say something and you're a good friend of mine. If I had the talent to on their feet dancing by playing music, I'd probably just do that. Really? As long as we've been [E.J. laughing] Mostly because I think about neuroscience, CHUCKLES: Right. Or other aspects of our life. Yes. I mean, I know a great but I had no idea. It's so interesting. Do you still do dance? We had Erich Jarvis on professor at Rockefeller, was studying speech in birds, as in song in birds, And then he's done a great and genetics of he actually danced with, with the Alvin Ailey Dance Company, Wow. really talented dancer. And so, you know, dance seems to be like a theme that comes up among the neuroscience guests on this podcast, do you still dance? Yeah, I love to dance, I'm not a skilled dancer, but I love music, I love dancing. I think it's part of the human spirit. I someday will understand the neuroscience behind dancing, right? Dancing's a universal human What is this dancing thing? Why do we do this, and Well, Jarvis thinks that perhaps it's one of the more early forms of language, and that song came before spoken language. It's sort of interesting that birds that can actually recreate human speech oftentimes have the Oh, wow. there's some commonality Of circuitry there. [E.J. chuckling] a link to that episode. Jarvis is a really interesting ANDREW: Guy, yeah. I mean, but if I may, I just... I'd like to riff on I did spend some time wandering and I think particularly and viewers, who don't know, wow, you know, &quot;Could I ever be a scientist and develop new things, stuff like that?&quot; Yes, you can, and if you're trying this, trying that, definitely stick with it. Keep looking for the I really deeply believe that. You got to play around, you got to find what it is that works for you. Interestingly enough, at I spent a lot of years studying the retina in a pure basic science, just as you and I have both done in the past, and as it turned out, I learned all the stuff I to develop a high fidelity, of the type that I'm talking The technology, the figuring out the cell types, how do you stimulate, all the stuff. I learned all that stuff, and I have come to a point in my life where I realize, wow, if what I think needs to be done, which is to take everything and instantiate that in smart technology that can restore vision, and do all the things who are the people in the world who have the right and know-how to do that stuff? I'm one of them, I know that, and it's totally by chance or it seems by chance, that I picked up and learned the things that but I definitely have the based on all my training and and it feels accidental sometimes. I look back on my own history, I'm like, &quot;How did I get here, the thing I need to do? Was this on purpose?&quot; It didn't seem like it was on purpose, but now, I got to do this, because I know what needs to be done, and it's something that needs to be done. So, that's my mission for the, you know, coming decade or so. Wild. I mean, I knew you had geeky neuroscience. I don't want to say geeky, 'cause, well, 'cause it makes it sound like I'm not there in the same Raft with you, but I didn't know about move in all directions depending on what one feels in the moment, dancing, E.J. It's very cool. Are you still a absolute Yes. I used to go to meetings, and E.J. would bring his own coffee maker and coffee to meetings. We're not talking about we're talking about, like, extreme levels of coffee snobbery. the correct ground coffee, There you go, yeah. press pot, yeah. [E.J. exhaling] [E.J. laughing] circuits in the brain are And that's right. But to bridge off of that despite the free, you aspect to yourself, and that hopefully other it seems like you really are good at, like, knowing your taste, like, it seems like the... I think it was the great Markus Meister, a colleague of ours, who, you know, has also worked on the of course, once said, you know, that there's a coding system in the brain that leads to either the perception, the feeling of yum, yuck, or meh, and that so much of life is in terms of who you interact with and how, and the the choices are It seems like you have a very keen sense of, like, yes, that, and You've always been very goal-directed since the time I've known you, so, and you've picked such a huge problem, but going about it in such a precise way, hence the analogy to the space mission. So, like, when you experience that, may I ask, does it come Like, &quot;Oh yeah, that has to be the thing?&quot; Or is it like a whole body sensation? What a great question, I have two things to say that. The first is that for I don't make hardly any I think, I process, I put and the hopper comes out, and feeling's like, &quot;Yeah, 100%, and I know not everybody's like me. Lots of people aren't like me, and particularly lots of that, you know, but I definitely roll that way. That is absolutely how I work. There's something that's related to that, that I think is, you and in terms of personal development and spiritual development stuff, that I think you'll relate to. My favorite aphorism is &quot;Know thyself.&quot; The Oracle. And I think, because if you can't do anything. You don't even know where to go. You can't even, you know, orient yourself at the next thing in your life, and I think it deserves that go with it, or addenda. Know thyself, be thyself, It's not easy to really They're all sorts of things telling us to be something other than what we are. And the third one is love thyself, and it's, you know, exploration of yourself, and and me, too, and all the things we've talked about over Some of us are not necessarily and it's a skill, and I really try my best to all the time. Know thyself, be thyself, love thyself. Could you elaborate a little bit more on your process for the third? This is a concept that has and I think for many other people, and it gets kind of opaque when it starts getting conflated with, like, self-respect, et cetera. Like, loving thyself, Do you meditate? Do you journal? Do you spend time trying to Yeah. Yeah, I meditate in an informal way in the morning with my coffee. Every morning, I make a [Andrew laughing] I believe you. and take in my world as and start, as I come into the day, and come into consciousness, And I have a Ashtanga-related Many of your viewers and listeners will know about Ashtanga yoga. It's a very physical, spiritual, that has a deep meditative I know you've had lots of episodes and discussion about the breath, and the importance of that for awareness. You know, at the end of you end with namaste, which for the connectedness of to the whole universe, and what's common to all And I usually practice yoga by myself, and when I say namaste at a part of that is to myself. Earlier, when I asked you about how you guide your decisions, and you provided a beautiful description as to how and why that occurs for you, and your trust in that. I don't recall you saying is in your head, or it's Does it have a particular signature to it that you'd be willing to share? Is it excitement that makes or is it a stillness? I think I ask, because we've been talking throughout today's the precision of neural coding, and the signals that are at and yet when it comes to feeling, we actually have a pretty crude map, and certainly a deficit in language to explain what this feeling thing is. And I know that people experience life and feelings differently, but I think it's often insightful when somebody with your understanding of the nervous system and yourself can share a bit, like, I love that question, and it relates to something What it feels like is ease. Hmm. And I remember years about challenging things that each of us was facing in our lives, you said to me something like, &quot;I wish for you some It was very moving, touching, as that's what a good friend does, is to give that to somebody, it sticks with me probably 10 years later. So, the feeling I feel when I'm on the path that makes sense for me is ease. There's just nothing, it's Thank you for tuning into the If you enjoyed the clip please check out the full