Welcome to I've only played Kingdom Hearts 1 and, like, been fascinated by the series. I mean - what does any of this mean? So I sat down with this good boy Gamb and &quot;Okay, yes, but it's a lot stupider than you think, and we'll get to that in a long time and I'm still angry&quot; &quot;Okay&quot; And now I'm going to explain everything Please tweet any and all inaccuracies @DrewGamblord But before we plunge headfirst into the terror gotta accept about the world of Kingdom Hearts. 1. "Hearts" are not literally hearts. They're kinda like a person's soul, but 2. Light = good, and dark = bad, and these are the universe. 3. If you lose your heart, or it's overcome guys called a Heartless. 4. A body without a heart is an empty husk that Nobody. Okay? So you lose your heart: you create both a Simple enough. 5. If you're "strong-willed" enough, your looks like you and can talk and stuff. Ok, sure, fine, why not. 6. If both the Heartless and Nobody are destroyed, And whole people are called "Somebodies" 7. There's Disney and Final Fantasy characters everywhere. And retcons. 8. This is more of a personal note, but I find it easier to take this all in if you consider piece than a traditional narrative OKAY LET'S Kingdom Hearts 1 We start in Destiny Islands, and if you think There's a bunch of kids running around but plucky one, Riku, the angsty one, and Kairi, traits whatsoever. Now, despite having their own cluster of islands not enough and build a raft to go on their But suddenly SZHWOOP a big ol' portal opens Sora tries to fight them and is absolutely in his hand! And he's all like, "Nice." Now, Keyblades aren't just big keys. Well, I mean...they...are, but they're also They can destroy darkness and repair worlds need them to do at that moment. And also, they're sort of like Harry Potter So Sora beats the crap outta some Heartless portal is totally sweet," and Sora is like, and Riku is like, "I'm gonna go through "Nuh uh," "Okay then-" "Yeah," "You should not" "-through the spooky And then everything explodes, and Sora goes hey uhh that's a little weird. Elsewhere Mickey Mouse - yes, Mickey Mouse, you later huh ha," and Donald and Goofy You're the king you can't just-" "Find [quacking noises] I don't understand what's happening. So after exploding and flying through space for a while Sora wakes up in this strange Traverse Town. He meets up with Donald and Goofy who are like, "Don't...touch it." Meanwhile Riku gracefully emerges from his from "Sleeping Beauty" and she's like, Sora doesn't even care about you anymore, "These vibes I'm getting from you are So Sora teams up with Dobbuld and Goonby They travel through a bunch of Disney worlds it's fine if you want to hang out with the the Beast" and this guy over here..."chub TO THE STORY. Ahem... eventually they wind up at a big ol' Riku pops up and Sora is like, "Riku, my friend, after being separated for so long, I have finally that Keyblade's only been hanging out with zhwoops on over to Riku-kun. "OH SCOOTS" says Sora, "well it doesn't "Ummm our allegiance is with the soooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo." Then Sora has a mopey road trip with Beast discover this super spooky room with a giant Riku's in the corner with Keyblade-chan OOH GURL HE DID NOT! Wow what a creep ha ha ha." But then, Sora delivers this badass monologue Keyblade-chan gets all flustered and tsundere, all, "Heh, nice." Riku goes, "Oh yeah? Well at least I still have Ansem," and Sora's like, "This suuuuuuper evil dude that's pulling Maleficent's strings, or whatever" and Sora goes, "u wot m8." And also, Kairi's been drooling facedown because she's just that boring. Beast (who's been awkwardly in the room a few minutes they remember who she is. "Kairi!&quot; cries Sora. Riku drones on for a while about how Kairi scheme, and also remember when Destiny Islands yeah her heart has been inside of Sora this whole time. Sora goes, "Ewww, omg" and commits sudoku This frees Kairi's heart and revives her. Yay! This also frees Sora's heart so he's a Boo. But Kairi's like, "Bibbidi bobbidi deus normal which contradicts everything we understand FINE. Ansem sees all this and is like, "Seriously, word 'somehow' uhh whatever! I'm outtie, peace," and Sora follows him so it's....Depresstiny Islands [heh heh..heh]. Ansem and Sora have a good ol' fashioned himself, Ansem turns into a boat, and the "Alright, whatever, I'm gonna open the of all hearts and it's all darkness in there, tattoo," and Sora's like, "Alright, sorta fumbles with his Oakleys for a moment Ansem is all, "Curses! Foiled! B-uhh-Bingus Bongus!" and he explodes. Sora tries to close the door to Kingdom Hearts Until guess what: Riku! W-wait how is he in there- and guess what: Why??...wait where's his shirt? Remember this, it's important I swear do Riku and Mickey help close the door from the All the broken worlds go back to normal and is like, "Okay I'll be back I gotta go stands there because she has no agency and Chain of Memories Five minutes later Sora is walking down a figure arrives and mumbles something about They continue down the path and arrive at OoooOOOOooooh! Sora works his way through the castle and dramatically take off their hoods to reveal There's Larxene and Marluxia and Axel and also known as all the sweet Livejournal blogs They take turns showing up to do something Except Axel, he survives! Because he had the biggest anime hair of them Meanwhile Sora's losing his memories! &quot;Ohhhh nooo!&quot; his real memories get replaced by fake memories. He starts remembering this girl who She's got different hair and almost a personality! Her name is Namine! and Sora's like, "I find this Namine she seems important and (also I kinda feel like I wanna give her a A few games of poker later, Sora finally reaches all your memories. You'll have to take a nap so I can restore game - you won't even remember me!" But Sora's already asleep in this big ol' "Sleeping and getting my memories back, Durlap and Gruff share the Economy Class pod potions YOU HAD ONE JOB- Kingdom Hearts? Riku takes the "wake up floating in a void" because eehhHhhH?? He ventures through the castle but doesn't eyes for Sora knowwhatImean [smooching noises]. He meets a bunch of those hooded weirdos (which called Organization XIII, more on that in Riku's like, "Whoa it's a clone of me, the clone, my name is Replica Riku and uh, So Riku kicks him a few times Then Riku bumps into this red mummy named And he's like, "Don't worry about me Actually, don't worry about any of this start to make sense." And then Mickey hops on Riku's back and darkness better, let's-a go!" And that's about it for "Chain of Memories." The next game is Kingdom Hearts II which starts To find out what his deal is we need to first 358/2 Days &quot;...ohhh that title.&quot; So okay, again, remember when Sora had a Sudoku into a Heartless? That also created Sora's Nobody, who wakes boopity where the poopity am I?" He's found by this weirdo named Xemnas who's your spooky cloak and How to Infuriatingly Also your name is eeuurrruhhh-Roxas." Xemnas introduces Roxas to the rest of the Xigbar (remember him for later), and -hey This game takes place at the same time as going back and forth between the two. It's super. Roxas goes on adventures around Disney World member in particular: Axel! They eat ice cream and just totally bro out, Then Xemnas is like, "Yo some stuff is going a bunch of Organization XIII members head ties into "Chain of Memories"). Then a new character pops up: the fourteenth A-WHUH?? Her name is Xion and she's like, "I'm And for good reason. Turns out she's... lemme just check my notes by Xemnas (using the memories Namine took up not going along with Xemnas's crazy schemes. And thanks to Namine some of Sora's memories *cough* all from having to understand what's going her to make her attack Roxas. Because if Xion defeats Roxas then Sora will But Roxas defeats Xion and she's like, "cough, Xemnas," and Roxas is like, "what's before she can reply (wut) she porfs into Riku shows up because sure why not and he's and Roxas is like, "I don't wanna, also sit inside this computer simulation until are any of these words you're sayyiiiinnnnnggggggg" Which leads us to... Kingdom Hearts II We meet up with Roxas who's inside a computer most of his memories and doesn't know he's And I mean, we're not supposed to either years after "Kingdom Hearts II" but trust So Roxas has his weird summer break and eats of brainfreezes and glitches in the matrix And he's all like, "Roxas you're in is like, "What's a computer." Then he meets Namine who's goes, "You're What's a Nobody?" He doesn't understand what's going on He finally runs into DiZ who goes, "Look, cool," and Roxas goes, "Okay, but there So he bizzorps out of the computer and into memories back (minus everything that happened And I guess Dallace and Gomit wake up too, Mickey (now in a badass hoodie) sends them named Disney-I mean Yen Sid. And he looks like this. Yen Sid goes, "First of all, those outfits Zippers are out, belts are in. Second, you need your driver's license, So they visit some more merchandising opportunities by Pete [patta patta], and a bunch of those Organization At one point there's a battle with a million boulder and DIES. Yeah, he's dead. Hengus Bunger You're Six Feet Under. Somewhere in all this mess we get a big ol' A while ago there was this nice bearded man Or the Kingdom Hearts equivalent of science light and wrote his dissertation on feelin' Now, Ansem the Wise had an apprentice by the by darkness because he's a weirdo. This created Xehanort's Heartless which this was the bad guy in Kingdom Hearts 1, people) and Xehanort's Nobody which called that guy!) Meanwhile Kairi is standing exactly where in a new outfit) when Axel swoops in and kidnaps He wants his buddy Roxas back and he's not no more oh nosiree. But he instantly sacrifices himself so Sora The World That Never Was. Sora's like, "How can I be in a place but just then a mysterious figure emerges. It's Ansem! But no! It's....Riku? It's Riku but he looks like Ansem? Okie dokie! Sora goes on a murdering-I-mean-heart-unlocking You think that I'm a mummy, now, here's Feast your eyes on my disguise I'm really The bad guys are conspirin' to make their But they forgot a lil' something that's I'm gonna use this 'puter here to digitize Ya better idolize and recognize I'm Ansem Sora, Donald, Goofy, Riku, Mickey, uhh, and I bid you all adieu cuz my computer is backfiring' So DiZ's computer explodes which causes also turns Riku back to normal. Xemnas is all, "My beautiful plan! Ruined, et cetera et cetera! Let us fight." Sora and Riku hold hands and prepare for a Sora believes in himself, Xemnas turns into sometimes Triangle!) until Xemnas is defeated. "Argh!" Everyone winds up back on Destiny Islands And Namine's there too and she's like, and Kairi stares into the middle distance. Yeah so everything ties back to the moment Either it's poetic in its simplicity or This moment should have created two Heartlesses heart isn't really connected to her body at this point). But Kairi is a Princess of Heart, meaning doesn't create a Heartless. She does create a Nobody, but she has no body So while Sora is busy splitting off into his Namine, is created from Kairi's Heart and Which explains why she was able to meddle So to sum it up: I dunno, I said up front Sora goes, "Oh yeah Roxas has been kinda So Sora and Roxas share a ghost hug and Kairi Oh and Goofy recovers from being dead yawn. But then a letter washes up on the shore with WHAT DO YOU WANT NOW YOU CREEPY RAT? But before we open that envelope... Birth by Sleep diddlee diddlee diddlee...TEN YEARS EARLIER Aqua, Terra, and Ventus. Weirdly, Ventus looks a lot like Roxas. Like, identical. I mean, I know compared to Dosencrantz and a lot alike but trust me, Roxas resembles For...reasons. The three of them are being trained by Master Ventus is too young and spunky so he has to test, the Mark of Mastery, also we're in Aqua passes and she's all like, "Neat!" angsty darkness and Spencer's coupons inside "Mm mm, girl, get yourself sorted out." Meanwhile in a fancy land for fancy lads called how hearts work and stuff. He's got some test tubes and like, a...a and he's surrounded by all his hot anime There's also a little girl here named Kairi Elsewhere Aqua and Terra pop out of a portal of course they do. They meet these two lil' babbies named Sora Terra walks over and is like, "Ew this one kid now you know how to use a keyblade you and Riku dribbles on himself. Also Kairi comes over from Radiant Garden Ehhhh?? Ventus is wandering alone by himself somewhere a motorcycle and is like, "Remember me?" And Ventus is like, "Nope." And hot stuff takes off his helmet and is And Ventus is like, "Sorry, I only know Turns out Ventus forgot a whole bunch of stuff Before he was being trained by Master Eraqus dude with yellow eyes named Master Xehanort. Huh how 'bout that. Xehanort was trying to get Ventus to unleash keyblade called the...sigh...kh-blade. That...that's the Greek letter "kh." ...But Ventus was like, "I don't wanna, Xehanort's like, "Fine, I'll just take bop, sucks the darkness out of Ventus's as Vanitas. Oh and he looks exactly like an evil Sora Don't think about it it's fine. Flashback over! Ventus is like, "Oh yeah, I 'member," and meet me at the Keyblade Graveyard." Okay so long ago there were tons of Keyblade in this epic war and now all that's left But Ventus knows all this and just goes, "k." Meanwhile Terra is getting super moody and Eraqus is like, "Why, my pupil?" and Terra's part in detail but I'm assuming darkness?" Then everyone piles into the minivan and heads big anime fight. And you know it's serious because nobody Ventus versus Vanitas. Terra versus Xehanort (who's like "hello"). And Aqua versus this dude who you might recognize cool eyepatch and scar yet. Him name Braig. Xehanort is like, "Ha ha ha I'll have that I'll control Kingdom Hearts!" and there mister bister," and everyone starts Aqua beats up Braig and he's like, "Argghhhh Ventus and Vanitas fuse which sorta creates And then Ventus explodes. He's just asleep but his heart goes zwoosh heart and heal up sure okay. Aqua takes Ventus's blown-up body back to to turn it into Castle Oblivion. She goes, "Okay Ventus I'm the only one pat pat." She returns just in time to see Xehanort possessing for short. A while back Xehanort was like, "I'm getting I can possess someone using the darkness in Also PSST this is what "Norting" is. Aqua goes, "I am not about this," and But Terranort's all like, "Ha ha ha not his heart which traps Aqua in the Realm of we didn't have enough tropes on our plate throw some amnesia into the mix. Terranort, just calling himself Xehanort now, then much later gets his memories back and one not that one), and his Nobody, Xemnas. Now we can return to the present in... Re:Coded Well...not quite the present. Sometime after defeating Xemnas but before Jiminy Cricket is hanging out with Mickey. You see, throughout Sora's many adventures been documenting everything that happens. Like, "Today Sora spent fifteen minutes Jiminy's about to turn in his homework to he didn't write; like some Cure lyrics or Chip and Dale digitize the journal and create the bugs that are corrupting the data and Pete and Maleficent are there, some C-tier appears and turns into Riku, I-uh...just, The journal is restored and Data-Namine reaches got a whoooole lotta business jellying up You got Roxas inside of you, and like, Xion's sorta fused with Vanitas, it's just It's middle-school-dance bad. Also the bugs are a side effect of me messing Data-Sora texts all this to Mickey who's The real Sora's gotta learn about this stat," the end of "Kingdom Hearts 2!" Data-Sora goes, "What? 'Real Sora?'" as the computer gets turned Yen Sid goes, "Yo, Xehanort is coming back We only have one Keyblade Master and you, randomly took your shirt off that one time." And Mickey goes, "We'll get to that. What about Sora and Riku? If they become Keyblade Masters and Sora gets And Yen Sid goes, "Okay, but there's a And it smells like peaches." Dream Drop Distance In order to become Keyblade Masters Sora and same exam that Terra and Aqua took way back But apparently the test is totally arbitrary whatever they want, just like real life. Yen Sid charges Sora and Riku with waking that have been on a constant rollercoaster couple games. They bounce through some Disney worlds and Come on it's a game about waking people- - okay fine...fine. Anyway, remember the rules of the Kingdom All that stuff about Heartless and Nobodies, restores the original Somebody? Yeah so all those Organization XIII Nobodies X-less Somebodies! Whaaaat our protagonist wasn't going around Also the, hoooooo keepittogether, uughghh. The "X" in all those Nobodies' names isn't an It's called the Recusant's Sigil and Xehanort This even works on clothing and that's...oh track Sora throughout this game. Be...because they put an X on his shirt. ooooooOOOOOOOOOHH Oh and then this guy shows up. This is Young Xehanort. Yeah so now there's time travel in this GOOD I AM OVER THE HEART-SHAPED MOON THANK It really doesn't matter how time travel open the wiki again) so here's all of Gamb's Basically at some point evil Ansem went back because UH HUH YEAH OKAY BECAUSE EVERYONE'S He met the young lad and was like, "Here's Go round up all the Xehanorts cuz we GOIN' Because, okay: Xehanort's Heartless was was killed in Kingdom Hearts 2 which means crack some skulls and wait why does he look I THOUGHT I UNDERSTOOD HOW THIS WORKED UGHHHHH Oh but now we learn about Xehanort's ultimate In "Birth by Sleep" he wanted the kh-blade But the kh-blade exploded and conveniently 7 light and 13 dark. Xehanort is all, "Grr, I want those shards!" or something. Originally he planned for the 7 light pieces of Heart: Snow White, Cinderella, Alice, Aurora, This is all the business with the princess Hearts 1." But the 7 light pieces could also be the Seven Aqua...Terra?... maybe Kairi? It's not really clear right now. Meanwhile the 13 dark pieces are a little We got a couple bad eggs bumbling about, but Not quite. So Xehanort, being the rational person he of himself by puttin' a little Nort into act as the 13 dark pieces needed to form the This is why Xehanort created Organization His plan was to Nort each of the members so But instead they thought for themselves and Sora killed everybody so way to go, Sora. He also tried having two of the members be cheating! Xehanort, being the RATIONAL PERSON HE IS, am I doing Norting unwilling people? I'll just find people who want to be me, So that's why he sent Ansem to seek out a new Organization XIII out of a some time called the.... wait for it....Real Organization XIII. Booo. They shoulda called it the Super Excited So Xehanort gathers himself, Young Xehanort, part of the old Organization XIII but apparently and six other shadowy figures that'll almost "Kingdom Hearts III." They're probably, like, time traveling Goofy's "But wait!" I hear you counting on your fingers, "That Yes, they're one short. So Xehanort decides the thirteenth Nort shall He kidnaps Sora because I guess Goofus and about to Nort Sora super good when Lea dives Somebody and he only really cares about Roxas Xehanort goes, "Drat, I'd kidnap you again time potion. Until next time, when the seven and thirteen in Kingdom Hearts Threeeeeee!!" And all the Xehanorts disappear...FOR NOW. Riku and Sora go back to Yen Sid and they're glad we got out of that one hoo wee I almost And Yen Sid goes, "Riku, you passed good And Sora goes, "Aw, Nort again!!" AHAHAHAHAHAHAHA all the characters laugh and WAIT we're not done yet - two quick games Union Cross Long ago, I mean like, long, loooooooong ago the Age of Fairy Tales. In this harsh-on-the-eyeballs place called Master of Masters who wore a sweet hood and wrote this Book of Prophecies with the help the future but only the future it's actually Look, it's got a magic creepy eyeball! [demonic So the Master of Masters goes to his six apprentices I'm gonna peace out. Here, you carry No Name around and pass it future-sight-related reason and this box. DON'T...open it. And uh...the rest of you get a signed copy But little did the apprentices know he gave the Book of Prophecies! They read their books and learn there's But not really? Eh. The apprentices scatter to the winds like that learn to use keyblades. Years and years pass, these groups all end the kh-blade into twenty pieces and yeah there's Look, this is a browser-slash-mobile game, Like, maybe you should know Ventus and Marluxia's and there's these things called Darklings (there's a Darkling on the box for "Kingdom if any of this is relevant in "Kingdom context for it like the competent writers [yelling/sobbing] Hocus pocus, these games have no focus. Kingdom Hearts 0.2 Birth by Sleep - A fragmentary whooahaheehuuu that's the sound "Kingdom Hearts 0.2 Birth by" aeeuguh - you acts as a kind of prequel-sequel that sets You play as Aqua, picking up right after the trapped in the Realm of Darkness by Terranort. She wanders around some Disney worlds swallowed Aqua, and finds Ventus and Terra but they're She fights some shadow monsters and ends up runs into Riku and Mickey. Because, yeah, even though her story took time is super janky in the Realm of Darkness and want to get your prequel character into Aqua fends off the darkness while Riku and Hearts 1" and Mickey literally loses his There's no other reason. What a guy. WHAT A GUY! The door is successfully closed. Hooray! Except Aqua is still trapped in darkness. Ah, feces. Elsewhere Yen Sid is like, "Sora! Not only did you fail my super simple exam left you Metroid-ed! Look, all your stats are back to Level 1!" convenient, I mean inconvenient-" "There's and hang out with Danny Devito!" "k." Also Lea is a keyblade wielder now. And Kairi. I am so tired. And that takes us to "Kingdom Hearts III"! Sora's gotta train, Riku and Mickey gotta into a character????, and Xehanort is off Light and the SEX Club to go to prom together. What'll happen?! Will Xehanort reassemble the kh-blade only be like, "I made this?" Will the Disney and Final Fantasy characters the overall plot? Will we meet a character without pointy anime hair? Will we get to befriend him over the course of our journey and then in our final moment of need his hair pointifies and he saves the day? WILL GOOFY SAY A SWEAR? LET GOOFY SWEAR &gt;:( fyuck Hello if you feel like you don't have quite veins you can watch the seven hour livestream Or I might be streaming some Kingdom Hearts can only imagine how well that's going. Also if you're curious about the production bulk of it - there's a link to the archived I don't have a Patreon so please enjoy this some of my favorite words to say out loud: