Five reasons I went all in on Dropbox. Hi everyone. here for askleo.com. There's a lot of discussion around cloud Is it Dropbox or One Drive or Google Drive I want to talk about what matters to me. One of the reasons, I went all in on Dropbox. But I also would like you to look at this get a lot of pushback on cloud storage, And I think that by understanding what it is that makes them useful and how you can you may find that, you know what, leo's However, apply to Google Drive, or they may So have a look, see what I'm doing and see help you make some decisions about what I want to start with, well, the beginning, what I was doing before I I use Amazon Web services, AWS, as it's commonly referred And in fact, the Asclio.com server, as I record this, I also use their simple storage services, That's basically just that, cloud storage. Unfortunately, S Three is not It's not something you would see but it's massive and you I use a lot. In fact, I have probably by now I've scanned photographs from old albums, I've been taking photos for many years and they all just get dumped As it turns out, like I said, S Three is somewhat difficult I started looking at costs because a terabyte, as it turns out, And with Amazon's pricing structure, But if you use a lot, Now, as a Microsoft 365 subscriber, I also have access In fact, if I organize things properly, terabytes available, although they'd I could make that work that Microsoft 365 subscription The problem is, it wasn't quite It didn't actually check all the checkboxes that I'll be talking about, I use it primarily for sharing a few files amongst some of my assistants and others, Google Drive turns out to be one of those things that's very easy to hook Many of the backup services that I use for my WordPress websites will dump Makes life pretty easy. And as we'll see in a moment, google Drive actually is pretty But I've had dropbox forever. And even though I do use all three and probably a few other things, There somewhere I wanted to settle on. One to be the primary the day today These are the criteria that I looked at. One, Dropbox is everywhere I want to be. And I mean that pretty literally. It's on windows. It's on the mac. I have a Dropbox app There's a Dropbox app for your iPhone. You can run Dropbox on your Linux box if you're so inclined, and you don't Dropbox is also a website that you can use deal with the files that you So it's everywhere. And literally, it's everywhere It's one of the very first things that I install when I set up a new machine, It happens to contain a number of the tools that I want to make Second dropbox. Synchronization just works. Now, by that I mean when I update a file in one place, I've got Dropbox When I update a file in one place, in all of those other places In fact, if the machine is on the same network, I believe they So it's not necessarily limited by your but rather by your local bandwidth, So it just works. For me. The way that I end up using it I may work on a document, or I may do something here on my desktop take my laptop, Things are available everywhere because I also use it for backing up. The reverse is very true. I do have my terabyte But what that means is that while I'm all I need to do is copy the photographs and then magically, all of those photos get uploaded Dropbox, of the machines on which the photos This is actually pretty cool, and I haven't relied on it very often, Dropbox includes 120 days of file history. So if I change a file and change a file and change a file not the change I wanted, It's essentially a big old recycle bin. It's 120 days worth of history. And I could retrieve the file Very, very handy. It's also one of the great recovery By keeping file history, you have On this day, all of my files Here Dropbox. Would you do me a favor and restore All of a sudden you're done. Ransomware didn't affect you. Obviously, this is after you've removed the malware from your machine, and you're But the bottom line is that it's wonderful protection from things happening Now, I do want to be clear. I'm using the Dropbox Professional plan, The basic free and the plus Honestly, 30 days is plenty. I'd be surprised if I ever needed to go you get of a slightly more Dropbox Professional also includes Remember I said I have a terabyte of Photos, but my laptop How do I deal with that? How do I use Dropbox on that laptop? Well, selective Sync lets you say, but don't download the files That's very cool because what it means is Dropbox in your Dropbox It's just not taking up the space And yeah, I don't need all terabyte I will turn selective Sync off on certain machines to make sure that absolutely machines, for backup purposes mostly, to have absolutely everything, Taking up a space. Now, Dropbox is cost effective for me. That's the fifth item. And I say that because and I have to include the for me because The cheapest, as I were, microsoft Office is probably In general, you get Office for $100 a year As one of my assistants has already said, a year for the storage and getting Either way, it's a really good deal. And it's one of the deals that I Google Drive tends to be cheaper. It is, again, given the current pricing, I calculate it out to be about $50 per terabyte per year, which is, The Office calculation gets a little bit weird because you might think it's $100 but you're also getting Office, So you could actually have other accounts It gets complicated, right? Microsoft Office you kind of have to look But with Google One, as they call it now, $50 per terabyte per year is probably The math for Dropbox, the way that I look at it, I'm paying I have three terabytes of storage in my current plan, of this, and you'll understand very $282 per terabyte per year. It has its place in the world, and maybe if you're a huge company, But in my case, the way that I was using Now, what's really interesting about Amazon S Three is that even if you're So much of our infrastructure and so many of these applications are, in fact, So you may be using S Three I don't know where Dropbox puts its files. I don't know where other storage services be using Amazon's S Three Like I said, they're probably getting a much bigger deal or a much better But it's just interesting to realize The one last thing I want to touch on is when people say, because they're in the cloud, Well, first of all, no, The people in the data centers, But as long as you keep your account because whether or not you use cloud the chances of someone actually getting For the most part, But say you do have something very secure, very sensitive, that you would use The answer there is actually I happen to use Boxcryptor, which is Roughly half of the folders I have in It's completely transparent, very secure, information into my dropbox An alternative is something Basically the same idea. It's on the fly encryption profile that you then put in your online Works with Dropbox, works with OneDrive, basically works with all of the major exactly what these encryption So before you say no cloud storage for me, Cryptomater to make sure you feel You can I do. For updates, for comments, for related I'm Leo Notenboom. And this is Askleo.com, thanks for watching.