The modern Middle East is a region troubled and civil unrest. But how did it get this way? The map of today's Middle East was mostly that planted many of the seeds of conflict Syria and even Iran today. When the First World War began in 1914, the than it does today. Most of the region was part of the Ottoman Britain controlled Egypt and some strategic was informally under the influence of Britain north. After the war ended in 1918, the Ottoman Empire it - states whose borders were decided in up in the chaos and uncertainty of an unstable self-determination, and Zionism. For some, the new order held out hope for Even before 1914, the Middle East was a vital Germany built the Berlin to Baghdad railway and saw itself as protector of the Ottoman the same way about Middle Eastern Catholics, of the Suez Canal route to British India. Ottoman fear of the Russians, British and Germany and the Central Powers when the First For the next four years, fighting raged in alongside widespread famine and the Armenian As the war dragged on, both the Central Powers empires - the Germans and Ottomans appealed rule, while the Allies appealed to minority the Ottomans. The Great Powers also struck secret deals in case they won. All these deals had one thing in mind: winning from that victory. The contradictions and conflicts of wartime they thought. One of these wartime deals was between the family of the Hejaz region, part of today's Empire. The Hashemites were led by the Sharif of Mecca, lead Arab tribes loyal to him in a revolt In exchange, the British promised that the Arab kingdom - but the deal was vague about Hussein hoped that if the British won, his and power - and the way to legitimize this The Hashemites claimed they represented the own national state, ideas that some Arab intellectuals calling for - though not necessarily under This worked for the British, who positioned "Many noble Arabs have perished in the cause rulers, the Turks, who oppressed them. [...] these noble Arabs shall not have suffered (Provence 65) Arab revolt against the Ottomans with British as Lawrence of Arabia. There is some debate about the military effectiveness expectations for the peace - expectations The British knew their deal with Hussein violated which stated any post-war land settlements They also knew the French had their own interests on Arab independence. In late 1915, French diplomat Francois-Georges "France would never consent to offer independence war she might have done so. It was unthinkable that the French people of the Lebanon under a Mohammedan ruler." (Karsh and Karsh 223) which resulted in the secret Sykes-Picot agreement Once the Ottomans were beaten, each Ally would influence in the Arab provinces and part of and the British in the southwest and south. Palestine was to be administered internationally, Russia and Italy. Any future Arab kingdom would be under French But there were doubters, like British Brigadier-General "It seems to me that we are rather in the skin of the bear before they had killed it. [...] I therefore think that any discussion cut up the Turkish Empire is chiefly of academic (Karsh and Karsh 225) So the British had promised the Hashemites had then divided up the same region between Palestine was the exception - there, the help their war effort. The Zionist movement had existed since the state. Zionist thinkers like Theodor Herzl considered on Palestine, which was the ancient homeland Even before the war, Zionist Jews had been with the Arab majority: by the Zionist tide in this Palestinian land... with expulsion from its homeland." (Khalidi 26/27) to win the war, and Russia dropped out after At the same time, some in the British government, were sympathetic to the Zionist idea, an idea like Chaim Weizmann. London hoped that by supporting Zionism, the to the British cause. Some British politicians like Lord Curzon opposed the idea, but in November 1917, Balfour of Great Britain: the establishment in Palestine of a national best endeavours to facilitate the achievement that nothing shall be done which may prejudice non-Jewish communities in Palestine, or the in any other country." (Mahler 77) one, since it was not clear whether "national of the non-Jewish majority would be in practice. So in order to win the war the British had the British and French made a deal to divide to support Zionism. As if this wasn't complicated enough, in the tangle of contradictions began to unravel. In January 1918, President Woodrow Wilson Wilson's points included the concept of identified as a nation ought to determine This seemed simple in principle, but it did and mixed identities on the ground. There were Arab nationalists, but most Middle relatively new concept of national identity. They usually identified more with their religion, Yes, some tribes joined the Hashemite revolt, remained loyal to the existing system whether Those who did feel a drive for national self-determination, now felt there would be a state for them after very hard to meet. After successful British offensives in Palestine an Allied victory in November 1918, and a The armistice had stopped the fighting, but order. British and French troops occupied the Ottoman Americans brought humanitarian aid to feed the fate of Europe and the Middle East at Delegations of nationalists made the trip would return without any concrete promises. Lebanese Christian Patriarch Elias Hoayek government to take a clear role in Lebanon: in accordance with the Lebanese national will, the help of France." (Daily Le Temps) in June 1919 not only formally ended the war the League of Nations, an international organization The League would play a key role in the fate French, and Americans now began to argue over The British felt that since they'd done they deserved a bigger share of the spoils. The Americans opposed the secret wartime diplomacy the gradual independence of Middle Eastern This meant that a "developed" state would until the new states could function on their In practice, it wasn't quite clear the mandate would-be rulers of a new Arab kingdom: We do not exactly know. I only wish to say that the nations in whose the Power whose advice they will ask. Their right to decide their fate in the future Very well! But [...] a secret agreement to dispose of we have not been consulted. I ask the Assembly whether this state of things (Provence 69/70) the US Congress changed its mind, and even idea, the US refused to sign the peace treaty into being in January 1920. For the British and French, this was an opportunity. At the San Remo conference in spring 1920, ground. France became the Mandatory power for Syria Mesopotamia, Transjordan, and Palestine. This allowed them to indirectly rule while possessions. In the words of historian Michael Provence: thus assumed all the responsibilities and (Provence 69) were the borders - they would have to wait the Ottomans, who still ruled in name only. The League did say France and Britain had but British and French administrators mostly The American King-Crane Commission's survey wanted democracy, some wanted a Greater Syria British oversight, some French, and some American, A majority did not want the Mandates at all, in Palestine. After all the wartime deprivations and sufferings, of a stable new order, it is not surprising Middle East after the Great War ended. Egypt rose in a failed revolution against between religious and ethnic groups in Lebanon. There was a major war in Anatolia between Kemal and Allied, mostly Greek, troops - which and the formal dissolution of the Ottoman In Persia, the British wanted to counter Bolshevik so they supported a coup by future Shah Reza 1921. But the violence that was the most intractable of the region most of all occurred in Palestine, In Palestine, the British Mandate incorporated encouraged Jewish settlement - some 35,000 hoping for a better life. International Jewish organizations often helped all) was previously infertile. Some also declared their desire not just for stoked tensions with Palestinian Arabs - as with Zionist groups. Some British officials and Jews wanted to supporter Herbert Samuel became British High for settlement became more explicit. The British and some Zionists argued that improvements, but most Arabs saw things differently. Writer Musa Kazim al-Husseini complained to 1921: of land and property and at the same time then expect the Arabs to live and work with (Cohen in Cohen 162) for Jewish settlement. Things turned deadly with Arabs rioting in Hai in 1920 claiming the lives of a handful Tensions fully b oiled over in May 1921 in A fight between rival Jewish socialist groups to deadly rioting between Jews and Arabs. Arabs killed 47 Jews, and the next day, Jewish 48 Arabs. A British commission mostly blamed the Arabs, the "political and economic consequences" bias" of the British. Zionist Ze'ev Jabotinsky felt the time had settlers: "Zionist colonization [...] can of a power that is independent of the native the native population cannot breach.&quot;ge (Jabotinsky) a violent start as well. Hussein's son Faisal had led Arab forces to the throne of a Syrian Kingdom. But the French would not give up control, and Faisal agreed that Syria would become Faisal's Arab nationalist allies of the full independence and control over Lebanon A nationalist society informed Feisal of their both England and France." (Fromkin 437) he reluctantly agreed to cancel the deal with March 7, 1920. France threatened to inv ade, so Faisal now late so a French army invaded Syria anyway ragtag Arab army at the Battle of Maysalun Feisal fled to Mesopotamia, but Maysalun became to European imperialism as Ali Allawi has its name has gone down in Arab history as against huge odds, as well for treachery and (Allawi 291) the nationalists, and his own family's ambitions, whether he was a power-hungry opportunist, In Mesopotamia, the British were struggling the region, bureaucrats fought departmental much independence Mesopotamia would have - and states. One thing soon became clear: the population Some of the urban elite were not against British association and much of the tribal countryside In June 1920, a local Arab politician warned said in your declaration that you would set from the initiative and free choice of the up a scheme without consulting anyone." (Fromkin 451) as the Iraqi Revolution, began. From a local tribe resisting British troops across the Middle Euphrates region. Tribal forces besieged several British garrisons, British relief columns. It took the British until November, and 450 included a vague promise of an independent The fighting though caused some in Britain are valuable lives to be sacrificed in the an elaborate and expensive administration (Fromkin 452) they didn't understand them. Bureaucrats wrote reports that blamed the Faisal, a conspiracy between the Germans and the machinations of the American Standard (Fromkin 453). Tribal leader Sayyid Muhsin Abu Tabikh, was "The British hastened [the revolt's] timing of the Iraqi and the numerous political mistakes (Khadim 71) revolt or revolution as well. Some see it as a rebellion of different groups was foreign and heavy-handed. Others emphasize the role of former Ottoman Still others consider it a national revolution identity and eventual independence. The shape of the modern Middle East became only came in 1923. At the Cairo Conference, the Powe rs agreed Iraq, his brother Abdullah would become King to support the Zionist project in Palestine. Though Britain would still have significant than the British had intended thanks to the have to wait. The French soon divided Syria and Lebanon rule for years to come. They also decided to create Greater Lebanon Christian Mount Lebanon, creating an unfamiliar And so the First World War had swept away a new Middle East. It was a region of fragile new states, supposedly League of Nations but in fact under British There was violence between religious and ethnic foreign domination. And in Palestine, there was the uncertainty the creation of a Jewish state, or would it - or perhaps both? The roots of the Middle East conflict were escalated during the Cold War where the super fought in the region. In the background, Israel was pursuing the US and USSR had done during and after World And while the nuclear arsenals expanded, the Nuclear Powered Communism by rapidly increasing Whole cities were built to accommodate a new energy. I bet you have the name of one of these cities: If you are interested to learn more about in WW2 to the Chernobyl disaster and beyond, Atoms exclusively on Nebula. Nebula is a streaming service we're building don't have to worry about the algorithm directly support creators. If you go to nebula.tv/realtimehistory, you For just $30 a year you can watch Red Atoms And that's not all, apart from watching the Battle of Britain series from Real Engineering, where you can learn useful skills directly In our newest class, I take you through the video and give a glimpse behind the scenes documentary. And of course, on Nebula you can also watch than on YouTube. And if you are really want to support us and can get the Nebula lifetime membership - it documentaries we couldn't produce on YouTube, even more platforms and it supports us at As usual you can find all the sources for If you are watching this video on Patreon I am Jesse Alexander and this is a production that knows: It all goes back to the First