Speaker 1: It's great to welcome back to the philosopher, New York Times bestselling author, creator of the Waking Up course. Sam, I don't it's been a year and a half, quite frankly, since then, including things going on. Yes, Speaker 2: It's amazing. to my audience before when they ask me about X or Y issue, you're sort of small fires, about the complexities of even if we have dishonest or uninformed, the ease with which overarching 30,000 foot perspective, and they by bringing up the Singapore study that maybe of it, maybe you haven't. Or what about that of thing? And if I understand correctly, this been disinclined to engage in some of those different issues. Is this still your perspective? see the discourse with those types of debates Speaker 2: Well, I think we have a responsibility Right. There's a kind of a problem of asymmetric easier to make a mess than it is to clean a principle of any debate. And, you know, audiences don't tend. They certainly go to to it. Right. Because it it's just in each right? It's like, see, like if you go to a right? You know, it's it's it's a it's based puts the rabbit in the hat, right. And you. illusion works more or less all the time. magician and you really can spot the trick. in many debates on, you know, topics of, of, and misery that you're alluding to. You know, debates, that I'm not inclined to have. Yeah. It's it's rarely a matter of total falsehood you're talking to. There are there are half in the wrong way or in the wrong context that, something more pernicious about the kernel work in an otherwise spurious argument. So, vaccine injury is a thing. Right? There are vaccines, you know, not just Covid vaccines, and wise to take. And as a general matter, vaccines for a variety of reasons, and discover and had a terrible response to it. So if you the reality of vaccine injury, many people they know someone who knows someone who had it's it's very easy to use the reality of vaccines or any vaccine. You know, the way that is in, in the aggregate, quite irrational. opting not to do aren't an effective way of what are the what is the framework or what that we would be better off as a society if Speaker 2: Well, I'm not saying categorically so, for instance, I wouldn't say that absolutely I just don't think I'm the person to do it. be. Thought out well in advance. And it's it's so asymmetric, because someone can just is, you know, in it's, you know, main points. you know, fairly delusional and yet will contain to you you need a. You need to sort of fact if you go to just have 90 minutes of audio you need to have agreed upon the, let's say, Right. And so you need to have kind of pre wrong with the study that RFK Jr referenced do all that work. And and for me it's just or a virologist or an immunologist. I mean, areas. And, it I think it would take someone all of those, you know, bad references to, there are some people who you probably shouldn't them is to dignify their side of the argument be. Right? So the you know, that's the reason creationists in a, you know, in a, in a Christian But, you know, a little of that goes a very that really, you know, debating the veracity of time is in and of itself misleading about So, I just I think you have to pick your battles more than just flipping on the microphones Speaker 1: I, I'm, I've been trying to think to go through with you, and I'll do it without naming anyone. Or if you decide there are but I won't name anyone. Generally, what I'm the last several years, one could argue that intellectual dark web. One could argue that places where we may be used to be able to can. And some of us that are on the left, comes out of the left, have to find new enclaves How would you characterize the change that over the last several years? And do you think the public discourse? the kernel of truth that are there, that are people we are, we're not now naming, and the for everyone to see, is that that something years, but most noticeably in the last six know, you know, mostly and not not only in most salient in the United States. And this, what were those Congress, the congressional figure out how to say that calling for genocide their terms of service. While, you know, we are two sexes biologically was a violation, Right? Or, you know, being, uncertain about as a, as a requirement for their employment. event at our universities. Right? So it's, many of us. And it's it's unsustainable. Right. and ideological capture in our mainstream know, one by the name of political correctness. now it's wokeness or, you know, social justice I've, I've referred to it and by many of those And the question is what to do about it. Now, thought to do about it is to focus on it to to not acknowledge the monstrosity of Trumpism populist lunacy on the right that is, certainly than anything we're seeing on the left. Now, in view all of the time. And I'm I'm by turns by one of them. Right. So I, you know, I, the problems of the left. And I and I've spent right that the real failure, the moral and who I used to consider friends and colleagues, degree, you know, professionally and even they have decided that they can't chew gum the obvious pathology of having a sitting of power and who pretends that an election actually to steal the election. Right? They so concerned about the ideological capture concerned about the derangement of the New A and they how ahistorical that was, or, you just think that's a fallacy. And it's, it's of our public conversation. And I think in myopia is, is is really inscrutable. And in obvious business model there. I mean, there's where people begin to cater to a signal that viewers go up, the subscriptions go up, something wants clearly wants more of that. And they They notice that their audience is filled loyalists or, you know, people who just want sports all the time. Right? And they begin And then they that, you know, that is the And so there's some of that too. And I don't, but it's all, you know, it's something that way, because in certain cases it it's it's several of these people as having lost their Speaker 1: I don't want to put words in your be able to sum up for the audience who may relate the the relative significance of these and then you tell me where you are relative what is called wokeness and social justice, to extremes that have perverted these movements. is also this gargantuan monster next to it, would be glad to destroy and end democracy in mind as I choose. To what degree do I talk relative to that? that. The one piece I would add, which accounts on the left so much, is that there really capture of this ideology. So, I mean, Trumpism the first time in my lifetime I've really right? It really seems like it's possible. the, you know, the shadow of this thing. So it is, in some strange way, still a fringe with respect to the institutions I care about. institutions in our society, the, you know, the the, you know, fortune 500 companies, in Silicon Valley or in Hollywood or, I mean, most part, what do they believe? It's not was stolen. It's not that, you know, you went It's it's for the most part, this this far you at bottom, well intentioned or originally call it a, you know, a moral panic around inequality in particular. But, you know, it's some, you know, cases, religious, right? I explosion of anti-Semitism correlate, you know, disproportionately well-educated people Matt, we've mapped on a the the racial experience 70 years onto the world and wrapped up Islamist of of of tolerance and concern. Right. So are the, you know, the African Americans who for for all of the, you know, all of our wealth attainment and, and, health security and everything that somehow see what's happening in, in, Right? So there's a, there's a just a profound a global civilization that has occurred domestically to much of the West. Right. So this is also it's it's a it's a mad tangle of I again, moral intuitions, but it is it's destabilizing specifically when you're talking about things the current, conflict in the Middle East. from those on the left who say, it's not that there is no consideration given to the 20, Palestinians have lived. And we have to separate did it, whether I condemn it or not, it doesn't to press forward and do xyzzy, that sort of you know, it's a it's a series of boxes that some of these folks, do you find that that for the perceived oppressed, or do you think Speaker 2: Well, it is. It's based on a confusion the reality, on the ground in. Yeah. Not just you know, the world over. Right. And the reality that is, that is producing so much of this in its most, pernicious form. And it's at much to do or anything in principle to do is in a war against jihadists. I mean, Hamas is a jihadist organization. And Iran is a You know, whatever the the actual sympathies many of whom are certainly tired of living the generic problem is jihadism is a specific know, holy war and and martyrdom. And it is bigger than American foreign policy. And this you know, you know, in the in fits and starts 11th. And it's a problem that's not going certainly lose sight of it. We we, you know, our attention and we forget about it. Like Trump is. It takes up all of our oxygen and until some. Yeah, a dozen people get murdered to shouts of Allahu Akbar. But it's a problem told to. 2 billion Muslims decide that they have to anathema ties it and and really treat And it just, you know, I get the one of the. of jihadism are Muslim, right? I mean, there's throughout the world in dozens of countries where you just have jihadists killing their again, murdering apostates and making life just don't pay attention to it. We don't think it's using child soldiers as suicide bombers, don't pay attention to it. It doesn't affect to to explore the details there and it is type of violence. Right? I mean, the suicide you actually think of the details psychologically, mean, what planet are we on? Right. And there's it's the, the extreme variant of, of of, fundamentalism you know, for, but an American one, within Speaker 1: There is, I don't know how much a growing voice in. Is it the Democratic Party? that Joe Biden will be punished in November support for what Netanyahu is doing, providing role is the point. I think that it's being different folks might prefer less American why one would stay home or vote for Trump that the alternative is so much worse. In taken the position of just kind of destroy I struggle to to really believe that there's is going to take an action in November, whether know why would they would do that? That would worse by their own evaluation. Do you have as it currently stands, really might do that Speaker 2: Well, I don't I mean, I would share were better on this particular issue. If this Israel is the thing they they want to erode, but you know, his support for Israel has been a few hiccups he's had with Netanyahu, his, Netanyahu than, than, than Biden has been, just I wouldn't know what to expect of Trump I mean, I would assume he would support it. know, at cross-purposes with that. I mean, who really thinks only of himself. So it's But. It's a. I mean, I'm much more worried, of support for the OP. You know, for for other of the political continuum. Yeah. Among independents border, for instance. And you only need to border and a few. You know, arguably. Uncharitable from the other side. Yeah. Someone like Tucker is Biden's policy. And then he'll show you know, coming across the border without any who they are. We can do anything about it. And, especially in the aftermath of October that we just can't police, that we're not of people are coming to the country. We have point that they're not just Latin Americans over the world, and coming in here for who conspiracy theory or just a, a just a on. That's the issue. I think he has to get a daylight between him and Netanyahu, where between him and Netanyahu, because I think self-serving character at this point. You least in part, culpable for the problem Israel Speaker 1: I want to switch gears a little to some degree. I've done a few interviews believe stop it completely right now. Moratorium. usually say all the way to the other side, this we don't even fully understand yet the blanks about the way in which it's going to time. I mean, it's a lot of the stuff we heard enough, that maybe now will thanks to AI. where your perspective is on this. You've curious where you're landing right now on Speaker 2: Yeah. What my my views about it seen progress in it that has surprised more than I was expecting. And frankly, I don't argument for, are being concerned about I I think I gave my. I gave my TEDx talk on 2014 or 15 when I first became cognizant of more or less. Everyone had thought we hadn't progress, you know, rumors of progress were, the breakthroughs that DeepMind made, with And then. Yeah, I mean, this has been it's at all hopeful that we can build this technology seem like we're we're on the cusp of solving is the the solution. So it could be the most And then we just had to get our minds around economically around that and the displacement following that. But. I do worry, and I think are similarly worried that we're in a, a situation produce a. A catastrophic outcome if we make we're in an arms race condition and an arms to, to incentivize the, the cautious, ethical, you sort of have to get right on the first god that is more intelligent and more competent And then we have to find ourselves in the become more aligned with our interests. Right? any real danger here, in my view, are people what it will be like to have a system that superhuman in its intelligence. It will be narrow intelligences are already superhuman. is better than you are at arithmetic. It's, and speech recognition and emotion recognition we're building into to AI this point. Once you know better than we are those at those is going to be, is going to be very quickly And then it'll be superhuman and it'll never You know, chess was not as good as you and maybe in the in the 60s. And then it got better as good as a as a grandmaster. And there was was that was allowed to. Thrive for, I don't masters imagined that they would always be you know, Deep Blue and and, beyond. I think this, he still was imagining that human computer than any computer. And I bet him I don't know. I, you know, it was it was just obvious to Eventually, like I said, a certain point, can't help but just add noise, right? I mean, is, is this the dumb, the agent in the conversation? let the machine do the work, right? So that's true. Now with chess, I have to think it's point, once you admit that human cognition, of of intelligence and it's, it's capacities of information processing, and it doesn't is processed in. Well, then you have to admit just a matter of time before everything we in our machines at a level that is superhuman. work of imagining what it will be like. To Right? Again, that an agent that does not say they would never make any mistake, but the smartest person you have ever met and it's got Reno real time connect connectivity every second of its life. Right. It's could we could possibly know, and it knows it instantaneously. of it gets better. And it never gets worse version was that it was the one you had yesterday. computer code than any human. And it can do do that, because that was the way to make was getting better and better and better. it's on the line, which is to say that it's It suddenly starts doing things that are not no, wait a minute. We don't we don't want negotiating right now because we don't have we care about. It's it's the thing that we to, to fight our wars. And I mean, like, there's of these, these systems and how united have in the world of science fiction, talking to or not, certainly seems sentient because we it's completely aware of our emotions and us and can talk. And, you know, Scalia's voice Because we have built we've integrated it problem, because the potential problem is possible superhuman minds, certainly most just as are our minds are not perfectly aligned that we barely take notice of. Right. And version of Terminator is not what you need I would spontaneously become malevolent and aligned in such a way that. It could have that's what that's what real intelligence is the kind of thing we can't foresee how of instrumental goals it might develop. And. all these species that we destroy casually up to and why we're doing it. And we can even but then suddenly do something that's antithetical would it's a kind of a weird cartoon, but You could imagine. Imagine if dogs invented magically, somehow give birth to you. You We're they're superintelligent AIS. And for right? I mean, we we spend a lot of our resources dogs and obviously in experiments and elsewhere. most dogs, most of the time, human beings We we wash them, we walk them. We just, you much as our own children. And yet they have care about and what we're paying attention computer, your dog has no idea what you're and it seems to work out great. Now, if something jumping from dogs to humans and is 90% lethal. where we recognize that our dog, our pets, you know, through no fault of their own and solution, then we we agree about it is that Like we just have to we have to start over. has to all happen on a Thursday. Now, obviously going to happen is suddenly, from the dog's that have loved them with all of their, for up one morning and start killing them right could never be made to understand. Right? what it gets at is. The consequence of much, have priorities. Suddenly you can have priorities lesser species can't possibly know about it. inscrutable. And yes, some people will argue there's no possible superintelligence that some kind of universal Turing machine that everything I happen to, you know, somebody is a, a champion of that kind of view. I'm practical reasons, like, you know, you have some considerable degree to be able to keep whether that's going to happen or not. I, stuff that literally you stuck into your into especially, booster ish on on that at the of building something more competent, more itself. Right. And that's the that's a crucial I think, and. Yeah, again. Then you. Then begins to look like. A chess game you can't the idea that we're going to constrain. This general and more powerful than we are. It's just we'll play chess harder. We'll beat it we've it really matters. We're just going to beat this thing. Right. It's there. There this point to beat the best chess engine, Speaker 1: In terms of the practicality. Practicalities democracy in elections. And this is the last a robocall go out in New Hampshire sounded as far as I know, the culprits have not yet and cloned Tucker Carlson's voice and republished sounded like Tucker Carlson, even to me, until that I recognize for myself. And I looked Carlson ized in terms of the practical impact some of these tools on on elections. How worried Speaker 2: Yeah. So now you're citing a very AI and with, you know, just our technology nearer term problem because it is here and about. Right. So when you look at the way fraud and, you know, cyber attack and the thinking. All of that is just that. It's, world. Right? And it's like, the more compelling we cross over into it, into a situation where. and then laugh about. Right. But it's it's But possibly by I mean, I think there's, there's, We can't get over, which is that the the AI going to always outrun the AI that allows watermarks and other, measures may be insufficient of to, to make the provenance of all information not I certainly do not consider myself an just, you know, I'm a consumer of, of of journalism are reasons to worry. It certainly sounds is some of these problems might be insoluble. for whatever sinister reason, can just, you else can just whip up a totally compelling, right? You know, just show me. You give me you know, 40% of the people coming across And show me the, you know, show me the, you the speeches made by, you know, members of needs to look like a frontline documentary. spend two weeks, you know, with the most powerful from now on that on that topic. Is that going that that's a fraud, right? I don't know, I mean, we're all I think we're already seeing. even in the absence of compelling deep fakes, information bubble. And they're they're just enough self confirming misinformation to keep again, whether whether it's the anti-vax thing the left, you know. Racism is worse now, really, no progress. Right? I mean, like, you can gravity on on your, your favorite polarizing cherished views endlessly online, you know, on the, you know, the the diet of of of, you the podcast you consume and you become, you else. I mean, we're all sort of redshifted is. Every galaxy is receding from every other And we. You know, I find some people now are That's always been a problem. Maybe people we just had, you know, a a manual printing be moving faster now, and it all appears to a paradox. We have more access to information a lie than it's ever been. And yet lies and just an ocean of of digital. Misinformation you know, every other cognitive problem. And an unlimited amount of it now. And you so holes, you can literally stay there forever. Speaker 1: We've been speaking with neuroscientist author, and also host of the Making Sense and your insights today.