This is every LEGO minifigure and in this video, a thousand individual minifigures, Let's start with Series 1, There are 16 minifigures, ranging the first ever minifigure to have a unibrow. all feature easter eggs alluding something we're gonna see a lot of. this skater was later turned into a zombie. Series 2 sees another 16, It's gonna get really boring if but if a minifigure has random chances are it's an in-joke or reference. monochrome minifigures, well does this technically In Series 3, a gorilla, the first collectible minifigure with short legs, although the first ever minifigure to have which is gonna be the only Star Series 5 follows, including Sherlock Holmes, and a Royal Guard. There was actually a which I filmed at Buckingham Series 6 meanwhile, which I filmed beside Paris's Statue of Liberty, I as well as this sleepyhead, Wow, so far this is really so let's just a take a breather. Next Series 7, but in Series 8, including the first ever Santa minifigure, and this diver, lens from a LEGO magnifying glass. which is really cool, tarot card reader, but also numerous minifigures such as Jekyll and Hyde, and Marilyn Monroe, I counted. despite having some incredible designs. as well as restauranteur Ivar Haglund, our second monochrome design. the first to feature a bald cap, whose book 'Oranges and Peaches' is and this paintballer covered in green splodges, as well as one stray orange But there's actually a now both infamous and revered, This one's just a hologram. normally you have an even chance of getting but with Mr Gold, angering millions of fans who'd now never Needless to say, but I'm certainly not paying the lining some greedy resellers pocket. he's worth about 15 times his weight in gold, which gave me an idea. a really really thin layer After applying a special glue and letting it sit, a notoriously difficult material to work with, It was fiddly and took a good few sheets, At least now my Mr Gold is real gold, Ok it's time for the next one, This island warrior is one of my whilst the hairstyle of the diner waitress is Deeelicious. I filmed the policeman beside Now for series 12, Does it come with a LEGO frog? The fairytale princess is the and the spooky girl becomes Series 13 is wonderful, ranging from an alien, to and I think Series 14 might just and the first themed series, The cheerleader from Series the lumberjack from Series 5 a werewolf, recoloured into Bigfoot, officially affectionally known as 'Squarefoot'. the mad scientist. you'll notice a fly has flown into his flask, I'm getting bored now, so let's speed run series 15, 16, and 17. Tribal Woman, Flying Warrior, Janitor, Ballerina, Laser Mech, Kendo Fighter, Jewel Thief, Queen, Spooky Boy, Hiker, Wildlife Scallyway Pirate, Penguin Mariachi, Spy, Banana Guy, Babysitter, Is that a baby minifigure?! Oh and also the spooky boy was Professional Surfer, Circus Strong Veterinarian, Hot Dog Man, Connoisseur, Battle Dwarf, Rocket Boy, Dance Instructor, Ok I need another breather after that. to celebrate the 40th The designs are all in some kind of costume, two minifigures dressed as LEGO bricks, But possibly my favourite is this guy, based upon Series 1. minifigures buy even smaller minifigures, And what if they bought a Disney series, Anyway, you might have noticed that there's since they included a bonus, Back then however, and minifigure hair hadn't been invented yet, Series 19 was around when I got into LEGO, in shops rather than on the aftermarket. whose shirt spells 'LEGO' in binary, based on legendary LEGO character Johnny Thunder. and feeling the bags to collect them all. out who I've got. feels... like... yeah, you've got like a triangular headpiece there It is... Series 21 onwards saw big changes, with the number of minifigures There's a centaur, a shipwreck and then in Series 22, including a birdwatcher, a Series 23 saw a holiday theme, and Series 24 is another of my favourites, from a conservationist to an aristocrat, which is very cute. cardboard boxes instead of foil bags, Sadly the boxes meant you could no longer but people quickly noticed the QR codes on the I got the noir detective, except for this red herring. released just last month, I was able to get them all without duplicates. including aliens, astronauts, And that wraps up all 26 numbered CMF series, The cabinet looked glorious, getting onto the themed series, The first series sees the standard plus some of the main side characters, versions of the family, including the creepily slender Comic Book Guy. entirely containing duplicates or with the exception of Snake. featuring 12 beloved and iconic characters, Road Runner, and Tweety. other cartoon characters who appear such as the Powerpuff Girls, the Flintstones, but the nine Animal Crossing Next up, Harry Potter. features 16 Harry Potter characters, There's obviously Harry, Ron &amp; Hermione, Neville Longbottom, and loads more. but it's nice to have these included. amount of repeat characters, Dumbledore, Neville, and Luna, our fourth Harry. there's a pretty solid amount of and in my opinion they made great choices. There are 16 characters from the first movie, and 20 from the second, My favourite is definitely this guy, there are also characters from the Wizard of Oz, which would probably make more Then there's the LEGO Ninjago movie, largely because I haven't seen this one either. And why do these two have Then there are the LEGO Batman movies, and again raise so many questions. seriously? err, let's call it fanciful, convinced me to watch them. up the DC minifigure series, characters as well as other superheroes, And then there are the handful of mostly Now I'm very aware that I have but it's only gonna get I don't know most of the characters, I apologise in advance. Drone Woman, Shield Thief, Gator Girl, Spiderman but with a cape, Not-a-lot-to-go-on Man, Green Goblin 2, Fish Feeder, Wonder Wolf, this one is actually Hawkeye, I really don't know, Blue Vampire, How many did I get right? from the Daily Bugle set, plus from another recent Spiderman set, these characters from the Sanctum Sanctorum, from the Avengers tower, minifigures ever released. These include Iron Man, Captain America, and the incredible Hulk, Check this out, There we go, which means, Obviously I've left a few gaps for the next and I know they're soon releasing but other than that, This really is a lot of minifigures, Let's continue with the Muppets, although it's a shame there isn't a proper set. with six minifigures, Oscar does count, These next two series are First there's the Team GB minifigures, in the UK for the 2012 Olympics, Then similarly there's the released exclusively in Germany, based on real people, Thomas Muller and Toni Kroos. exclusive club of real living people I'm not talking Daniel Radcliffe as Harry Potter, but people alive today portrayed as themselves. from the Icons of Play set, the two surviving Beatles Paul conservationist Jane Goodall, and Creed Bratton from the US office, just to name the examples I actually own. such as Amelia Earhart, Gustave Eiffel, I guess sadly the other two Beatles, who were already included with Now we're really close to the end, I want to give honourable mentions sets rather than in their own series. the cast of Friends split between two sets, a huge range of humans and various characters from Doctor Who, and various characters from Dune, Which means, brace yourself, personal favourite theme, There are three minifigure series, so I'm just gonna group them by movie instead Let's start rather fittingly followed by Oswald the lucky rabbit. or is it Mickey Mice? Steamboat Willie versions, Spaceman, Knight and Train Driver. albeit with more subtle variations, four Daisy Ducks, two Chips and two Dales, who probably doesn't count as a minifigure, Next there's Snow White, Prince Florian, as well as Bashful, Doc, Dopey, There's Aurora from Sleeping Beauty plus Cinderella and Prince Charming, the Princess and the frog, There's Aladdin from Aladdin, both in normal form and as this evil red thing, Pocahontas from Pocahontas, and Hercules from Hercules, This has just descended into a list at this point, Next Rapunzel and Flynn Rider from Tangled, literally just Gaston. Belle and the Beast are some of the but for some reason LEGO is Cruella follows with a Dalmatian puppy, I'm just gonna take that, Alice, the Queen of Hearts and Cheshire Cat, Elsa, Anna, and Olaf, and Jack and Sally from The There's two Peter Pans, two Tinkerbells, two different Stitches but no Lilo, and the characters from Winnie the Pooh, Anyway, onto Pixar, Dante and Enersto De La Cruz from Coco, the cast of The Incredibles, the cars from Cars, and finally a metric ton of Toy Story characters. all with both custom moulded heads as Woody's also famed for having which later appeared again on those Lastly there are loads of side characters, many of which probably don't count as And that, by my maths, is it, which should account for the That is a lot of minifigures. particularly for all the Harry the Disney section's looking pretty full, and annoyingly this tall guy doesn't fit. for these three cabinets, Thanks for sticking this far, and I'm probably gonna now fall asleep mid-sen...