Improvement Pill here, welcome to the Question questions with fancy shmancy animations. If you want your question to be featured in down below. Today we have a question from Anil who asks Ah, I actually have very strong feelings about revolved around academics and doing well in My parents - were immigrants - and valued They truly believed that if I got good grades, be able to live a significantly more successful I remember being sent to prep school on the just so I could prepare for a special exam middle school. One that only had about 60 students per grade. Once I was there, I was sent to even more top specialized high schools in New York City. Which I barely managed to pull off. And once I had accomplished that, the process to study my way into one of the top universities Now throughout this entire process I never my peers, and society drilled into me. Everyone around me said that this was the was true. But when I got to college - I finally had For the first time in my life I was away from Away from my parents constantly berating me For the first time in my life I actually had Where I could actually think about what was See the thing about college is that there It's not like middle school or high school Which is essentially to move to the next level After college - it's really up to you and So I sat down and thought about my life. And I realized that the only reason I was to secure my financial future. In theory going to college was going to guarantee A job that pays well. That's why my parents pushed me so hard when But when I did my research, I realized that A survey conducted in 2015 asked a large group money they thought they were going to earn going to make more than 30,000$ a year right being about 60,000$. But when you look at the graduating class People who already graduated for 2 whole years More than 56% of college graduates make less Only 15% of all college graduates will make My next thought was well ok. Maybe the pay isn't that great. But at least I'm guaranteed a job right? The media will often say things like - college rate of about 2%. And what they're referring to is actually They'll say look - the moment you get that But if you look closely. What does it say at the bottom? Data for persons age 25 and over. Which means #1 they aren't considering all So if you just graduated and can't find a included in this data. And #2 they're considering EVERYONE over 25, have a job cause you had 20 years to find This graph doesn't give you an accurate assessment out of college! Right now in 2019. I did some more digging and found a graph A study conducted by Rutgers University found have full time jobs. Are you kidding me? That's like investing 4 years of your life a full time job. And to make things even worse, out of this have full time jobs 50% of them are underemployed don't even require a college degree. Like being a barista at Starbucks, flipping in an office. So that means only about 25% of people who that actually required that degree to begin Only 1 in 4 people. Think about that for a second. You're investing 4 years of your life, taking just so you have a 1 in 4 chance of actually with. And even if you're lucky enough to get that making much. When I discovered all of this, I came to a See I did learn one thing from all my years in the city. I learned how to look at data and make educated College from a logical standpoint, from just sense. It may have made sense in the past, but as going to college unless you want to be a doctor, If you aren't 100% absolutely sure what you go. This was my belief back then, and it's still Now you might be thinking - well Improvement go down, what is? A lot of people worry that if they don't go living on the streets. And that's simply not true. If you invest even just a year learning a in demand right now - you will most likely you would have if you were to go through all And you don't have to take out tens of thousands In fact you can even do it for free or for Don't believe me? Well about a year ago I started promoting Hymes. He teaches something called digital marketing their online presence. This isn't something that's taught in school that this is a pretty valuable skill to have. I mean just look around you - everything And ever since I started promoting this course, people as young as 18 who managed to land And on average it doesn't take 4 years. Not even 2 or 1 to get the experience needed In many cases, these students are getting Seth's course. Some even get hired literally a month after And to top that off - most of these people level right out the gate. That's right we've had 18 year old kids who more money than recent college graduates. Seth himself personally went down this career around 100,000 a year in just 4 years. If this is something you're interested in, to be a safer - and smarter alternative out a free video training series we put together in the description box below. I highly recommend you to check this out if path that often lets you work remotely from living at the same time. Full Disclosure, this is an affiliate link you do decide to join seths course after going But I'll be honest the only reason I like in what he teaches. I mean look at what I've built with this channel. I'm living the life of my dreams, making more most of the year - because of digital marketing, Now before we go I do want to rant a little It's been many many years since I dropped a lot of the people I met back then. And out of all of my friends, acquaintances, actually make a decent amount of money with The majority of the people I know from back year - which is barely enough when you're And not a single one makes more than 6 digits NOT A SINGLE ONE. I have friends that spent over a year just Eventually having to settle for a job far Disappointed because they gave up 4 years be in debt for years to come. There are so many other alternatives out there I recommend you do your own research and find But again if you're interested in learning a career that allows you to work remotely graduates do. I highly recommend you check out Seths free box below. Besides that guys stay tuned.