Transcriber: Mandy Vincent "Thank you, Dr. Hoggan. But I never want to see you again." Is, oddly, the most common I am an emergency veterinarian. That means I see terrible things. Seizure in animals, and lots and lots of trauma. When I have to tell people the hard and the poor prognosis they become visibly different. Their face contorts, and their eyes well. Despite their stoicism, a tear escapes Invariably, when someone they apologize. You don't have to apologize to me. This is what I have dedicated my life to. I more than understand that lead to this outside. The pain of pet loss is real because the emotions you shared The grief associated because you didn't lose a thing. You lost a someone, and someone special to you. In case you hadn't realized it yet, This is a sad subject. You may cry and But I promise I will help you And understanding is The first thing that you need to know is that grief is a bona fide with documented symptoms. The American Psychological They are crying, insomnia, and a feeling of profound sadness. That means that the pain you feel and the dysfunction you suffer It is normal. Do you know what else is normal or when you have to make Reliving every minute and every Do you know why you do that? You do that because emotional pain hurts And we are hard wired Our body has reflexes We have pulled ourselves to safety Unfortunately, no such instant rescue That means we need to study to try to learn something from it I am sure this is a highly that helped my ancestors survive but unfortunately now, just feels like punishment. When I talk to people about pet loss and I explain to them it is they believe me because they feel it It is different for multiple reasons. The first reason is that the validity of the pain of pet loss. They act like it is almost histrionic. Histrionic is a word like you're just grieving for attention. You know, it's funny. Nobody questions our pets I would say the 14 million cat videos (Laughter) If our pets can make us so happy then losing them can absolutely have The second reason is because the relationship is different. When our pets look at us, They don't see our flaws. They look at us "You are perfect, and I love you." That is the warmest And that is what makes it when those eyes go away. I have had many people tell me that they were confessing, "I cried more when my pet died That isn't a terrible secret. If somebody criticized you or told you of course you're not going (Laughter) As someone who tells you "I love you. Even if you had an incredible mom. Her ability to speak (Laughter) She could tell you that she was tired. That she didn't feel good. That she had lived her life While it's hard to hear at the time, it means that when you lose her, So you get some peace. Our pets don't have So that means often that's our decision. That is a heavy responsibility to carry. The societal diminishment the unconditional love that and our pet's inability to speak, all make pet loss grief And if that is enough explanation then I am so glad. But I suspect it isn't because what makes are the factors that made Those factors are actual Comorbidity is a medical term that means something that I'm sure that there are actually but there are five that The first comorbidity or had to make a euthanasia decision like the lady that left a tube of topical It never occurred to her the puppy Chemotherapy is designed 100% of a puppy is fast growing cells. There was nothing that I could do. In that situation, it is natural But, you know, logically you can't And pets have a free will My own dog proved it on my favorite reading chair (Laughter) Of course you feel responsible, but you need to know that animals than humans. The only person holding I promise your pet is not. The second comorbidity is not the riotous puppy whose sad eyes looked hollow. A broken soul that learns because you opened up your heart. And if you lost your pet because and give them a soft goodbye, yes, that hurts. Sorry. You know that you made that decision from the imminent pain, fear Your first rescue brought them joy. Your final rescue gave them peace. The third comorbidity is not but if they rescued you. If they got you through a crisis reminding you that you are loved I can tell you in my own life, I found a paw. In your lifetime together, and they proved it with their actions But they left your side when they had to go eat or When you let them go, you made that decision They understand no other choice situations and they understand The fourth comorbidity is if to someone you loved and lost before and now losing that pet feels Yes, that hurts. But you have treasured your shared pet. So you did twice the loving and you can feel proud that with regular offerings of food, water Of course, you are going to grieve loving both that person But you need to keep going now You need to love yourself The person who needs your love now is you. The fifth comorbidity and that is when you lose a pet I learned about this early in my career that I have ever done. It was for a man who was and he had a very sick little dog She was in end stage liver failure. There was nothing I could do, I could not and I told him that. And he answered me in a voice choked He said, "You don't understand. The girl that I love the most I need her." I did understand and I didn't know what else to say, and he didn't either. So he decided to test me. He became very quiet "I'm not supposed to tell anybody this, but I have a credit card and I will keep it a secret, That moment hurt. That moment still hurts. When I said no to his credit card, he understood and he told her goodbye. But he took off her collar And he worked for some months. He came back to the hospital he was still wearing it. Are you going to question Are you going to tell him and she gave him wasn't real? Are you going to suggest or he should just replace her Of course not. So don't say those things to anybody else, but especially not to yourself. The pain of pet loss is real and the grief from pet loss is valid. After Girl's dad held her a final time, he asked me if our pets go to heaven. I will tell you that theology was not But my answer to him didn't come It came from my heart. I told him, "Of course they do. Our pets share our homes not but because they fill it floor to ceiling Their joy gives us something Why would God's house be any different?" (Applause)