Hey, everyone. Welcome back to another video. In today's video, I'm a complete print on demand masterclass. This video is going to that I currently do for my all the way from the idea that you want to start print on demand today to getting your very first sale. And everything in between, we're going to cover step by step. Now, what's going to make is I'm going to explain but I'm also going to switch you over to screen recording on my computer so you can follow along step Now, before we do switch I do wanna just say that this There is an absolute ton of information that I'm going to cram into this one. It will have all of the all of the tools, the marketing strategies, pricing strategies, everything you need to start a successful print on demand business is all going to be Now with that being said, as a $500 print on demand course, but I'm giving it to you so all I ask is if you do find please just give it a thumbs up and let me know down in the comments. Alright guys, without further ado, let's get straight into this masterclass. Okay, so the very first is what specifically is print on demand? Well, when it comes to a print essentially what that means is you or me as a print on demand seller, we create a design that we think would sell well on a T-shirt. And what we do with that design of the big print on demand websites. Now those websites create of what that design would look like if it were printed on a T-shirt. And then as people come to those websites and they're searching through for one that they want to buy, if they find ours and they like it, they can actually purchase it directly from the print on demand website. They will do all the printing. They will do all the shipping, and they will handle the Us, as the print on demand of the overall profit on that sale. So let me switch you over to the computer and show you a real example Okay, so let's start on Amazon, which a lot of people don't realize is actually the largest print When you type in something this is just to give you a good example, if you scroll down here, you can see that these are some T-shirts here, but if you keep scrolling down, you're going to see some of these listings have this very generic standard mockup. So this one right here has it. This one right here has it. These, from experience, to be done with print on demand. Now this one next to it, you can see there's kind of a crinkle up here. So that is someone else's listing. That means they could be printing it and shipping it out themselves. Same with this one over here, but as you keep scrolling through here, you're going to start to notice all of these standard mockups, Those are all being done So just to give you an idea here, if we click on one of these, I'm just going to click on the first one. So once you do click onto the dead giveaway that it is in fact done with print on demand is on Amazon Merch on Demand. That is Amazon's department So this just confirms to us with print on demand and the person who created this listing only uploaded this design right here, and Amazon's doing everything else. So if someone comes onto Amazon and they're searching for they find this one, they can &quot;Okay, what kind of shirt Men's, Women's, Youth. What color do I want this in? So let's say I want it in asphalt gray. And then what size do I want that in? So let's get this in a large.&quot; Then you have your price right here. You can come over and you You can purchase it with Prime shipping just like anything else from Amazon. Now what's happening behind the scenes is Amazon receives this order, they get the funds from the customer, Amazon's T-shirt printing they print it out, they and then Amazon takes care of any customer service And we just get our split Now, one thing that's really something that really sold me on the business model years ago is that when someone does make this listing still stays live. It still stays fully stocked up because there is really So once you start to build up and you have a bunch of these and they're getting a lot of sales, it becomes a very passive business because once someone makes a purchase, you don't have to lift a finger, the listing still stays live. Amazon or the other they take care of everything for you and that one T-shirt on its own or however many good-ranking become passive-income-generating Okay, so hopefully that helps as to what print on demand is. There are a couple other important things we need to discuss before moving on. And the first thing is that Amazon is the largest print on but they are not the only print on demand platform out there. Since we are creating we own the rights to that design, so we can upload it anywhere we want to. And a lot of these big are non-exclusive. So you can upload your design but you can also upload it to a couple of the other print on and get sales from those Now, what's going to be cool the big print on demand so I've been able to figure the most sales and are worth So as we get further in this video, I will share just the couple that I recommend uploading to. These are going to be the ones that generate the most sales for you. Now, speaking of other this is the last thing I before we get onto the What this is is that there are two main ways to do print on demand. The first way is called That is what I have just showed you. It's where you create the designs, you upload them to these big they do everything for you. You just get a split of the profit. Now the other way to do print on demand is called active print on demand. Now this is for those kind of a full-fledged clothing brand and you want full control over that website and the brand yourself. So with active print on demand, you create your own designs, just like passive print on demand, but you upload them to your own website. You do the marketing and the to your website, and then every time you receive an order, you can have that printed and shipped by a print on but you are still going to be handling all of Now, I have done print both passive and active, and I have moved entirely to It simply just gives you a You don't have to be worrying you don't have to be And as a beginner who's just it's definitely a lot So with that being said, that we are going to do today is going to be all based All right, so hopefully If you have any questions so far, just let me know down in the comments, but let's get started in this tutorial. So when it comes to starting the very first step that you do is not actually create your accounts on the print on demand websites. The first step that you take is start coming up with ideas, niches, topics, different things that you want to create T-shirt designs about. So in order to save you and error here and kind of I will say the two best categories overall to create designs in that sell the best are going to be occupations and hobbies. These two categories can be unlimited ideas for you and they make it very easy to avoid the one really big mistake that people make when creating The one really big mistake that people make is they that are trademarked or copyrighted. This is a big no-no in print on demand. It's pretty much the only thing that you cannot create designs about. So if you haven't really heard essentially what that is is So the biggest examples of or company logos or sports teams names or sports teams logos. You can't use anything that or a lot of money trying to and sell things based So for example, you couldn't and slap that on a design and try to sell that for print on demand. Coca-Cola has spent so many years and so much money to and that is their brand. It is their reputation, so we can't just come in and So with that being said, as we start going through this tutorial, I'm going to show you the beginner way and the advanced way to do So starting with this very with different ideas to specifically occupations or hobbies, the very beginner way to do this would be to come over to Google and You are going to have a ton If you just click on the first one. You are going to see a Now this is a good way but I have found this way because your mind just and then it sees something else. It bounces around and you good design ideas. So the advanced way that I is to use artificial intelligence. So this is the very first It's called ChatGPT. I'll put a link to this one I'll also put links to every other tool we use throughout this tutorial. If you go below this video, all of those links will be to the tools we're using so and try to find them yourself. Now this tool, ChatGPT, is a totally free artificial Now what's cool about using ChatGPT is you can customize what So on Google, you get kind of just a big, generic list of occupations. On ChatGPT, you could say something like, 50 popular occupations, click Enter to give that a search. And this is going to Right off the bat, you can see how much easier It's just a simple list. And what's cool about this is these are more popular occupations. So these specifically are that have more attention or they're kind of trending right now. What I love about ChatGPT is as you want with these searches. So you can say 50 indoor occupations for people over Every time you make a search here, you can get more and more creative and you're going to get results that other people haven't found so easily. Okay, so I'm about to show you how to use this list in a second here. But throughout this entire masterclass, I wanna just drop some golden nuggets or really helpful pieces of advice that I wish I had when I was starting out. So the first kind of is that the vast majority of your sales in print on demand are going to come as purchases for gifts. This goes hand in hand why occupations and hobbies are such good When you are thinking about you typically think about and that either has to do as their occupation or what Okay, so as you go through keep that in mind. It will definitely help when you are creating your own designs. Okay, so getting back to this, this was the very first step here. It's a very simple step, to brainstorm ideas as searching on Google and that everyone else is going to get. But this brings us into the next step, which possibly could be out of this entire tutorial. What that is is that over the last couple of years in print on demand, more people have found out So other people have found like software developer So we can't go in and just create general designs because a lot of other people about these big overall topics. So you're going to have So what this next step is is and we need to find the gaps within them. So to give you an example of there are many different types of nurses. There's not just general nurses. So in this next step, I'll show Let's use nurse for an example. So let's just copy this. I'm going to right-click, and now I'm going to bring that we use to do this process. So this tool is called Merch Informer. If you've seen my other for print on demand, this is a tool that I use as a foundation for my print on demand process. You will see that as we Now, before I get logged in and show you how to do I do wanna be super transparent here. Merch Informer is a paid tool. So they have both monthly and it breaks down into two main plans. So you have a Newbie plan For the vast majority of people out there, all you need is the Newbie plan. If you get the Professional plan, it's going to increase the I personally would just until you get further along in where you really start to scale things up. Then the Professional plan's But for this tutorial, and especially when you're the Newbie plan's all you need. Two important things about them is, first, they do have a three-day free trial. So you can follow along in this tutorial. You can even use the tool for the next couple of And since I've been I have a 20% off personal coupon code. I will put that down in the Feel free to use that. It takes 20% off of any plan that you sign up for for lifetime. Now for those of you this in manually, you can and that should take the 20% off for you. Okay, so with that out of the way, let me get logged into my account and I'll show you how to use this. Okay, so once you are logged into your Merch Informer account, all of these things on into more tools that you can use for your print on demand business. The one that we are specifically of the process is within It's called the Keyword Finder. So once you click on this, you leave it on Amazon US. That is going to be the to purchases for print on demand, so that's where you wanna And very quickly, let me just explain that you can be a seller and you can list your designs and take advantage of all those sales. Doesn't matter where you live, even if you're outside We will touch on this more but I just wanted to make sure So in this Keywords box right here, we are just going to right-click and we are going to which is the nurse niche. Now we're just going to click Search. It literally just takes a And then you have all of that people are searching So the very first thing is there's only going to be 10 results shown. Just switch this 10 to 100. This is going to allow It makes this whole process So what this tool has just done for us is broken down the overall topic of nurses into all of these different And then one column to the right is how many people per month are searching for that on Amazon. And then there is one tool that I'll show you in a second here that tells you how This runs the data for all to see how many other people are competing in these specific subniches. So guys, what we wanna to the left side and see if that we could create designs about. Now, not all of these are going to make much sense, like a nurse. I don't know that I could that would be different about a nurse. But as you scroll through here, you might see addictions nurse. Okay, that's a specific type of nurse that 1,500 people And if we click on this which is the details icon, it is going to run a Now what this is doing is that subniche is within all So just like that, we got an A grade. This is just like in school, so you get an A, if you did really well, you get an F if you failed and all the letters in between to kind of show you how well you did. This is a perfect example that you wanna create designs about because there are 1,500 people and there are very low competitors. Okay, so let me close out of this one and let's keep scrolling through here. Let's find a couple more together just so you get a good idea So, African nurse, okay, 1,700 people per month Okay, that's another A rating. Let's keep coming down here. As you can see, this is If you do wanna switch that, you can play with these settings up here. I like just going through It allows you to kind of run into ideas that you wouldn't normally see. Let's keep coming down here. Allergy nurse, amazing 1,500 people per month. Let's give that a search. Okay, there's another A rating. So just like that we found That means that there's low competition Those are three niches be creating designs about. Now there is one more metric that I'm kind of looking at here and I'll explain what I'm looking at. This is the estimated So ambulatory nurses has We are not looking for crazy If you were to type in something you'd probably get an F score because there are so many But on the estimated sales volume, it would probably be in the thousands. The whole strategy that you especially if you are a new seller, is you have to find these small niches that other people haven't to create design specifically about that. So in this niche, it says there might be only 32 sales per month, but that is absolutely okay because we're creating but we're also creating them in the two other ones that we found here. So you might get five sales you might get 10 sales you might get 30 in another. But as you start to add up these sales from all of these small that is how you're going to Now for the sake of throughout this video, I will say that this strategy of finding these small subniches and getting a few sales from each of them and adding them all up is because it diversifies you. Whereas if you had a really for example, which has a ton of sales, but someone outranked your design, that could have represented over 80% of your sales from your entire business. So once you lose that one Whereas if you go into all you are going to be super diversified. So if someone outranks it's only going to represent So you won't even see that fluctuation in your overall sales. I hope that that makes sense. And again, if you have let me know down in the comments. Okay, so as you've seen, we've just gone through here we've already found three subniches that have low competition. I like this ambulatory nurse the best. It has the most estimated monthly sales and still that A rating. So that's the one that Now, as a general rule of thumb for you, as you are scrolling and breaking them down as long as it is listed in this list, that means that it's being as being large enough of a market to actually create If you haven't been in print you might think that all of that you're not going to There really aren't any buyers. Well, there's kind of two parts here. One is just going to be experience. If you create designs in you might be surprised by how And two, if you look at there's over 1,000 people of these every single month. Okay, so now that we have to create our design about, now let's get into the next step. So a lot of people would think and you take it right and you start creating your design. But there's actually a in between now and creating the design. The first one is going to as your phrase or the actual text that your shirt is going to say? In some niches, you can use to what this topic is, but I would say for well that you create, you're going to need some So what I recommend doing right-click this, copy it, and let's go back over to ChatGPT. We are going to use to help us in this step. So scroll all the way down here and I'm going to tell ChatGPT to write 10 funny T-shirt ideas about... And then we're going to paste it. So, ambulatory nurses. Press Enter, give that a search, and then just watch this write out some T-shirt design ideas for us. Okay, so let's see what we've got here. We've got, I'm an ambulatory nurse. I make patients walk the line. Keep calm and let the nurse handle it. Ambulatory nurses, we know If you've ever been to the nurses always seem to So these are kind of puns or inside jokes that you would understand if you were an ambulatory nurse. Now again, the good thing to using ChatGPT for this is you can It's going to give you 10 Or you can say something if you want shorter ones. You can keep customizing these until you see some that So once you've got this list or a couple different lists The next step before we and create our design is we that nobody owns the trademarks to these. Remember in the beginning of this video, we were talking about the when creating their designs is infringing on other people's trademarks. Well, the most common example company logos, sports But, people who are or even print on demand, they can formally trademark the rights to a specific phrase on apparel. So before we just take these ideas and we use them to sell on our and turn a profit, we have to make sure that nobody else formally owns the rights to these. If there is one step that you really take away from 'cause this is the only one into legal issues with print on demand. So you have to make sure that you are paying attention to trademarks. So the way to do this is come and we're going to go We're going to go to Trademarks and then go to Trademark Alerts. Now just like with the Keyword Finder, all we have to do is copy-paste all of the ideas we And in between each one go down to the next line and enter it, and then you can build a So let's take a couple of these ideas. I'm going to copy paste and we'll check 'em all Okay, so I've just gone of these into this list. All we have to do now is click on Save. This is going to add them and then we click on the big blue button that says Check trademarks. And then the last step is we and click on the refresh page. Now when you scroll down here, you're going to have either a This is telling you if for print on demand or if So we got good results here. All of these have a green check mark. That means that all of these If you do get a red X on any of these, do not use that for print on demand. If you upload that to a you will get that taken down. You'll get a copyright or and if you get too many of those strikes, they will close your account entirely. So I know that this is a simple step and it only takes a couple seconds to do, but it is such an important So I really hope that Okay, so now we're getting in this process. We know what ideas we're and we know that nobody Now we can actually get and start creating these designs. Again, just to save you This is the design tool It is called Placeit.net. The reason that I use on their library, from the fonts to the are all copyright free. So as we talked about with the phrases, they can be trademarks. So someone owns the rights to that. Well, it's the same for So, the fonts, the graphics, the layouts, they can all be owned by other people. Now, a lot of the other they don't specify this. So you may be pulling or using different fonts to create really good print on demand designs. But once you upload that to a it may get taken down. You don't know why, because to make sure that no but the elements that you used in that design could be So if you can't tell, the is something that I take very seriously in print on demand. As you start to grow your business, it becomes even more important because you're working in scale. So Placeit is the tool that Again, to be transparent on So if you go to pricing, This is going to be if you So you pay for the whole year upfront. If you do want to buy it I believe it's $15 per month. And I do have a coupon So it's 15% off. I will put a link to that There is no manual coupon code to enter, so you have to click But that brings us down Or if you pay on just it's about $12 per month. Now I will say everything in So for that one fee, you can download 100, you can download 1,000, 10,000 designs per month all included for that one price. Now, I hope that taking a second to justify why I recommend is actually helpful because I know when you are starting a business, you just want to make money, you don't wanna be spending money. But if I could go back to when I was starting print on demand, I wish I had these tools from day one. It saves so much time results in the end. I spent a lot of my first creating my designs by hand, pretty much guessing on the niches because I didn't have tools like these. These tools do it all for you. It's kind of the insider of other sellers don't have access to. So anyways, I hope that Let me get logged into Placeit and I'll show you how to Okay, so once you are logged into Placeit, hover over Designs, hover and then click on T-Shirt Designs. This is going to bring you into their page that has all of their So if you scroll all you can see that there are There's something like over 50,000 different T-shirt templates There's a couple different So you can come over to the left side, you can do More Filters. If you see one of these what you were trying to you can click on these You can also click over here to Sort by and go to It's just going to be different ways to see all of their templates. Now, personally, what I kind of the fastest way to do this, is just come up to the search that you were creating your design about. So let's type in nurse, click and this will show you everything that they have based on nurses. It's going to be T-shirt So just as a side note, once you can put that on a mockup and you have full rights to That is included in your So later on in this tutorial, we will talk about free marketing ways to help you get more sales. Well, these mockups, you So just know that you to use these as well. Now, right now, we are So come over to your left side Now for nurses specifically, it shows that there's only but if you ever find just type in something that So let me switch this to doctor. Let's give that a search, and So let's go to Show More Filters. We'll come down here, Okay, it shows that there so you can still use doctors So if you ever find just know to search something similar and you'll find even more So scroll through here and pick any of these design templates to create our first design. I really like this one right here. So let's click on this one. It's going to make it bigger just so you can get a better idea as to what that looks like. And they'll show some similar templates over on the right side as well in case you like any of these better. Let's stick with this one, Okay, so once you get to this page, you're now in Placeit's editor. So all of these elements, you can click and move them around. You can make them bigger or smaller. If you wanna undo something that you did, just click on the back button right here. And then if you do get everything and you want it to go just click on the Reset layout button. It just really helps of things on a design just it puts everything back, keeping all the new texts but puts it back to that original layout. Okay, so this is the template Let's now go back to our Trademark Alerts and let's pick out which phrase we want to start by creating a design on. So let's just start with the first one, walking is my cardio. I'm just going to copy this, come back over to Placeit. And then back over here, you don't actually click You click on the box on the left side that corresponds to it. So I'm going to select all of this. I'm going to delete that, and I'm going to paste This is going to be too So let's just come over here. I'm going to copy this, and We'll just split that onto two lines. So walking is my cardio. As you can see, you don't it just fits it to that template. You can click on Reset layout, just to make sure everything is how it started. And then you can start to customize this a little bit further. So all of this text right by just clicking on the You can pick any of these. So if you just start clicking around, all of these are going commercially usable fonts. So nobody owns the rights to these. You have full usage rights to and make a profit from them. So if you do wanna change these around, just know that you can do that. If you wanna go back, you Same thing for the font color. So there's a little white box here. It's kind of hard to see but if you click on that, you can change the font color to any color that you want here. And again, if you click off of it, you can go back and you can Now, something else that's good to know about these font types and the color is that if you go to Custom, you can put in any hex code. So if you have certain brand colors or you wanna match it to another color, click on the pipette and And let's say you wanna Well, you can change that to any other color So that's a cool feature. I'm going to go back again, And then same thing for the font. If you do come over here in this list of suggested fonts, you can just go to More Fonts. And again, this is going to open up into an even bigger list of All of those you have usage rights to use. Okay, so that takes care of the Now let's come down to This is going to be your So, what's in the middle. This is one of the best So all of these graphics, and again, you can search whatever you want here to kind of tailor what these results are. These are all going to be copyright-free, commercially usable graphics. When it comes to creating a the hardest part is finding the graphics that nobody else owns the rights to. And then even further than that, something that I really is you can just click on them and it will replace the graphic in your design automatically. So when you move this, You can see that it just does all of the heavy lifting for you. You don't have to add the new one and then delete the old All of it is just done very quickly. Now, I'll also show you that when you are in this library over here, but then you can type in anything else. So if you type in something like nurse, you can click on any of these. You can add them right into your design. You can search doctor. You have a massive library that you can use any of the graphics from. Now, another kind of pro is that when you are creating a design from a T-shirt design template, always make sure that you are customizing something on that template. Whether that is changing the text, just like we've changed right changing the font, changing the colors, change at least one And that way that template when you upload it to a If you just left this and you downloaded it as is and uploaded it to a technically, you could do very first person to upload that to the print on demand marketplace. If, however, someone else has uploaded that design before you and now your design is an yours will get taken down as a duplicate. So just know that these templates They make things way but always make sure at least one thing on that template to make it uniquely yours. Okay, so looking at this design, I think it's pretty awesome. If I were to change anything here, I think I would just take out of the end. It makes it a little bit harder to read. This is a lot cleaner. Walking is my cardio. I like that graphic in everything looks awesome here. So there's one more step and what that is, is this So this kind of blue color, if we downloaded it as is right now, this blue color would get You'd have just kind of a square or a rectangle behind your design. This is not a good look So what you wanna do is and go all the way to the bottom down here to this little checkerboard. That is going to make a So now the background is fully removed, and when you upload this to only this design itself will That is super important So this design as it is I'm just going to click on Download. This is going to give you a little popup that says Processing your design. Just give this one second to load, and then it'll switch to Just click on that. This will allow you to name This is really helpful for keeping track of all of the designs that you've made. So this one is going to and this is an ambulatory nurse. Okay, let's go ahead and save that. Okay, so just like that, this design file is saved to our computer. As you can see, it has no background, so you can zoom in, zoom out, And this file, as is, to print on demand websites. So for the rest of this tutorial, we will use this specific design to go through the whole listing process and how to do all of that. However, for you, on your side of this, I would go back to Placeit and then I would go to Trademark Alerts and I would find out Okay, my favorite exercise, running to save lives. Go back to Placeit, I'm going Let's go to T-shirt And then let's find a different template. And we're going to use In just doctors alone, So you should be able to take each one of those unique phrases and put them into their That way, for all of these designs that you are uploading of ambulatory nurses, every different design that you upload is its own unique design. So someone searching ambulatory nurses has a bunch of different options that they could choose from. If they like one design Well, all of those designs You're giving them a good Now, as mentioned I said that I was going and the advanced way to So really quickly, I do wanna This is something that I've learned to do that really helps for print on demand. It gets your scaling of creating And what this is, is we with T-shirt design ideas for us. But once you've been for a long time, you will start to notice that certain phrases sell So you can kind of put together this list of the best selling phrases, and you can apply those to all different overall niches. And those specific phrases are generally going to sell the best. It does not matter what niche they're in, as long as you're staying you can use these bestselling phrases to customize into any of those niches. So this is something that I but I did mention it in a recent video and you guys said that So what I have made for you guys if you don't have enough is a list of both 10 and 100 of these bestselling phrases to just kind of copy-paste Now, yes, this does come at a cost because it is really valuable information, and if I give it away for free, it'll just get oversaturated. So I will put a link to these whether you want just 10 or all 100, that link will be down in Now, if you've made it I'm going to give you one So I've gone into the resource and I've just directly This is one that you guys can feel free to use in your own business. But what this is is basically this phrase, you take the red Xs and you fill in what is that niche or that subniche. And then the best uses for this one specifically are occupations. Some examples would be gym teacher, diesel mechanic, pediatric nurse. So as you can see, this So what you would do is say number one, same as a normal This is a simple impactful phrase that has proven to sell And as you can see, you can use it for all these all different types of teachers, all different types of mechanics. As you go through all these occupations and you break them down into the subniches or the different types of that occupation, you can just input them into this phrase and just like that, it can make So for this specific phrase, and I'll show you how easy Okay, so on Placeit, rather than looking within nurses specifically, Apparel &amp; Print and T-Shirts. This is going to bring you And really what we need for this design is just a definition. So this can be from any niche, it's really not going to matter. And really what you wanna all of these until you kind of a definition format. So let me scroll through I'll find one that we can use, and then we'll actually Okay, so over on the right side here is a perfect template that we can use. I'm going to open it up. This is a definition-style template. It's going to pull up the similar ones, another definition one over here, and any others that would This is the one that's going Just click on Edit. And then you can start customizing this template with this phrase, just filling everything Let me do that real quick and I'll show you what it looks like. Okay, so I've just customized this and filled in everything I've changed some of the fonts around just so it's a little bit easier to read. And another kind of golden for you here is whenever you switch the text to a white text and put that on darker shirts rather than a black It seems that it always sells So that's why I've kind of flipped this and put a black background And the other thing is make sure that the font is very easy to read. That kind of cursive that the script font, you can't really tell what You wanna make sure that when it only takes them a split If you have cursive or script fonts, a lot of the times it's so people can't understand So this is kind of the more advanced way to create these designs. And the way that you would do this is once you have this phrase set up, But if you can remember back into all of these subniches, you had addictions nurse, all of those had A-rated So you just switch this to African nurse, you leave So same as a normal And then the last thing, always remember, switch out your background just before you go to download that. I always leave it on a what I'm editing, make And then you just come up here So I've just taken a second here just to make all three of So I have ambulatory nurse, same as normal nurse, just much cooler. I've got African nurse, and You can really start to by doing it this way, and you can then upload each one of these into their own subniches. Now the last thing that this kind of more advanced way is that that was just by using one of these bestselling phrases. We got all three of these subniches. And you can create 50, you can create 100 different subniches with one phrase. But you can then use all of those A-rated subniches and the phrase after that, all of those bestselling into any of these niches. So with that being said, that you can create your design. Now let's get onto the next step here of actually uploading this design and having it for sale on Okay, so as mentioned Amazon is the largest print So I definitely recommend uploading your print on demand designs there, but they are not the only I recommend uploading to. So let me show you each one by one, just so you know which ones to spend your time uploading to. So first, let's start with Amazon. As mentioned, it is called This is a very basic website, but this really is Amazon's legit print on demand sign-up page. So once you come to this page, just click on the Sign It is totally free to become a print on but the only catch is that they get something like a billion or 2 billion people coming to their marketplace every single month. They do not accept all So you can submit your application here and it takes up to 14 days to hear back from them to be a seller on their platform. Now, there are some tips and some pieces of advice for this application. I will link to a video down I recommend watching that after this one. That will walk you through step by step and kind for each one of the questions. Now, with that being said, I recommend getting your application in for Amazon Merch on Demand today. That way you have a headstart Just know that if they don't you can reapply with a So don't be discouraged if you don't get accepted on the first go. But while you are waiting you can absolutely get started selling on these other websites that So this first one is called Redbubble.com. Redbubble is probably the biggest print on demand-specific Everything on their marketplace is all done with print on demand. So Amazon sells all and different gadgets Redbubble is specifically Now, what's cool about last time I looked, get something like 10 million people to their website every single month. So trust me when I say there to make purchases. Now before moving on to the next website, just know that Redbubble You can create an account today and you can start uploading your designs. But with that being said, let's move on to the This one is called TeePublic. TeePublic is identical to Redbubble. In fact, Redbubble purchased I would say TeePublic is just a smaller version of Redbubble. However, TeePublic is You can sign up with your and you can start uploading designs today. And now the last website is one that is definitely This one is called Spreadshirt. Again, totally free to use. They are a smaller marketplace. They don't get as much traffic, but they're doing everything right. From being in this business for so long, I can see this one growing So you're going to have uploading to Spreadshirt, It's one that I can now definitely stand behind uploading to. So those would be all of Amazon, get your application Once you get accepted, And then Redbubble, Keep in mind, for these four websites, you can upload the same and sell them on all four What's cool about doing on these marketplaces is that from their own sources. So someone who's going to Spreadshirt might not shop on Redbubble So by uploading your design you have four times the otherwise have if you just Now a couple quick answers to these four websites that you may One is you don't have to be You can create an account in the world and you can get paid out. Secondly is, how do you I'll show you in a minute here, but you can set a PayPal and that way they will And you don't need to have You can totally just use an to receive your profit. Speaking of getting paid out, these websites pay you every single month. It's taken care of automatically so you don't have to request a payout. They will pay you Now the two other things that to know is that taxes, no matter where you are if you are making money in you do have to pay taxes, but you don't have to make it complicated. So wherever you are located, however much money you when you are doing your taxes, you just put that total amount in other income on your taxes. It's really that easy. I wish this was classified as something that you didn't have to pay tax on, but it is like any other I will say though, in print on demand, you don't need to have a You can do everything just individually kind of as a personal seller and then you just add it as So don't feel like you need of setting up a business entity And then the last thing I'll on these different websites, you don't have to pay On some other print on demand websites, especially if you're doing whenever you receive an order, you then have to pay upfront before that order gets shipped That way the print on demand provider has their cost covered, they can ship it out to the customer, and then you get the full amount with your profit built in after. On all of these websites, the customer is paying the full amount. We just get a split of the profit after. So you don't need to have a card on file, you're not going to get That is just a really nice feature to using these passive Okay, so hopefully all that Now let's get back on track here. Let's actually upload our design to one of these print on demand platforms, and I'll show you how the description, set the So when it comes to these four websites, you've got Spreadshirt, The one that I, hands down, think has the best uploading So I'll walk through this And then the same things that description, all of that, applies to the other websites as well. I just like the way that TeePublic works. They make it very easy especially the first time around. So if you're just getting started here, go to Create Account, and then fill in your first country, and set a password. And then all the way at the bottom, you're gonna have this Yes, I'd like to advertise my I recommend leaving this turned on. This is additional going to do for you totally for free. Email marketing, retargeting marketing. So these are more sales that for you, because remember, you make a split of that profit and they make a split of that profit. So it's in their best interest to help you sell designs as well. I would leave this turned on, to have that turned on, and if you ever decide that you want to turn that off in your account later on, you have the ability to do that as well. So once you've done this, just go ahead and CREATE MY ACCOUNT, and then it's going to send real quick just to make sure that that email address is legit. So just go check your inbox real quick and click on that verification link. Okay, and then once just go to Account and then and then sign in with that Okay, so just like that, you get this green bar that And that Create Account now So all you have to do is and this is going to bring So this is going to ask you, to upload or do you have We're just going to I'll walk you through this one at a time. And then the very first it's going to ask you to Now the storefront name clickable link that someone could click on for each one of your listings and it's going to bring that you've uploaded to Back in the day, I would say that this would to create a storefront but you don't need to The way that the marketing these sales are not going to So you can set this to I would say just make sure that is trademarked, like a company name. Remember we talked about that before, and make sure that it's not something that's vulgar or explicit. You don't want to turn people from you just because of So I'm going to put in GGTees11. You can be as creative and just know that it to the niche that you are because the idea is we are going to go into a ton So don't feel like this to nurses in this instance. Okay, so once you see that say Take Me To The Uploader, and now you're able to click It'll bring you into your computer where you can select the And this is going to be the file that we downloaded from Placeit. Okay, just give this It's uploading your design. Okay, here's our design. As you can see, it has a so it's a little hard to read, but we know from creating As you scroll down here, something that you'll see is that says Your image isn't of our wall art options. This is totally fine. What they are talking to print this on a wall tapestry or something really big, this design file that we've created is not upscaled big enough to be able to print that way and not be blurry. What we are focused on So it's only going to So we can totally disregard We're not focused on wall art anyways. Okay, so with that being This is our first section This is our title, description, main tag, and supporting tags. Once you've done this one time, this process becomes super easy. So let me walk you through So I've done titles a I would say the most effective and efficient way to is on that shirt, which And then what is that niche or subniche? So let me type that in. So walking is my cardio and then ambulatory nurse. So this is what you can put as your title. And it kind of looks incomplete at first, but something to know is they will automatically put in what that piece of apparel is. Now to give you just kind of a peek ahead, you can upload this on a T-shirt, a hoodie, a tank top, crew neck. So, no matter what someone is selecting, it'll auto-populate what is that they're looking at. So they will put in T-shirt at the end, and then this all makes sense, but we leave that blank because they're going to do it for us. So that is what I would And then I would copy all come down here and paste it. And then I'll show you the two First is going to be the beginner way and then I'll show you the a So for the beginner way, just take the keywords that we have here, walking is my cardio, ambulatory nurse. We're going to say this walking is my cardio T-shirt is perfect for ambulatory nurses. What we've just done walking is my cardio and ambulatory nurses and split that into a short So this walking is my cardio T-shirt is perfect for ambulatory nurses. We want to make sure that TeePublic and these other websites So I wanna put ambulatory and then over here you're going to see we're going to do the same just to make sure that they know that this shirt is supposed to for ambulatory nurses. So that is the beginner way Feel free to use this. It's just a very simple way to do this that still works. If you wanna a little bit more advanced, what I would do is come Give that a search. And this is just going to Step up your nursing game with our walking is my cardio T-shirt. Perfect for ambulatory nurses, this comfy tee combines celebrating those long Show off your love for Okay, let's copy that. We'll come back over to TeePublic. This is where we're going to paste it. And just like that, you have which still has the keywords Okay, so that is that over here. Let's now go over to the right side. Our main tag is going to So for this, we're actually we're going to select that. And then in the supporting to type in ambulatory nurse and all the other things that So again, what's really is it autosuggests these for you. So click on nursing, nurses day, nursing nursing student, nurse So by doing it this way, we what that specific subniche is, but by putting in nurse we're not going to miss out on that's coming in searching So that takes care of all Now, just a couple This is asking if we want which is basically a Back in the day, again, I and then sending traffic to Again, you don't need to do that nowadays. There are better ways that you can do it without And then the last thing does this contain mature content? I'm just going to click No. Yes, you can create mature content. No, I don't recommend doing it. I think you're just opening yourself up to some potential issues down the road. And I think the market for apply to a lot more people than the mature content. So with that being said, And as I mentioned before, to the other print on So once you know how to do this once, you can do the same The title and the description the same on TeePublic as they can on the other Okay, so scroll down here. We're about halfway through This is going to be could this design be available on? So in print on demand, you don't and it doesn't cost you anything extra to offer it on a T-shirt and a crew neck because none The only thing that's going to change between these is the pricing because each product costs and you wanna make sure that profit margin built in. So the very first thing I would come through here, think about does this specific design that you have created apply So since this is about nurses and it's an occupation for adults, I'm going to leave the kid's the kid's long sleeve all turned off because this isn't really Now when you are coming through here, if your design could then just turn these on. It's just that easy. I just wanna create the least amount of friction when someone's coming through here to make a purchase. I don't want them to accidentally and then they have to return it and go through that whole process when they were just looking So that's the very first step. The next step here is to So as you can see, this is white on white, it does not look very good. So I'm going to come to default color. I'm going to do either Asphalt or black. Those are kind of my go-to options that always typically look I'm going to go with black on this one especially 'cause it's a light design. It looks really good on the black. So then go down each item one by one, make sure everything looks good. Yes, it all looks good. Nothing is cut off. We can leave all these black. Baseball tee doesn't come as a black, so you have to select what they do have. It is black and white. Let's go ahead and select that one. Again, that looks good. Now the last thing that I would do is come back up to T-shirt and I'm going to zoom in so you can see what I'm talking about here. But if you see this dotted line, that is the print cutoff area. So you wanna make sure that your design is not going over the print-cutoff area. If it is, just scale it back a little bit and it'll give it a little bit more space to make sure that it's not being cut off. You will know right away if it's too big, if it's something like this, you're going to see all of That is not good for printing. So bring that back, make sure that it fits just right in here. Nothing is cut off. And if you do need to move it around, you can move this to kind of center it. If you wanna snap it to just click on these two Okay, so this section is entirely done. Now we're ready to scroll down here and move on to the next section. As a side note here, we and one more section and then we're ready to publish this live onto the marketplace. But what this section is right here is actually really important. It is what colors of shirts is this design going to be available on? So as you kind of saw before, the white text at the top, You're not able to see it, so That way it's not going to because I already know it's As you keep scrolling through here, hover over each of these and just look at your design to make sure that everything looks good. If you see one that looks like all you have to do is Like this one might be I'm going to turn that one off. And that's all we're doing in this step. Now to show you kind you can click on All, it'll select all of these turned on. Just Light and it'll be just It'll turn off the dark ones. Or just Dark or None, and you can handpick 'em one by one. If you have just a design clicking the dark is going And then just double check But this part is generally up to you. If you like just going one by one, that is a way to ensure And let me just finish this up and we'll move on to the next section. Okay, so all of those colors look good with this specific design. Now we can move on to the last section here before we publish this. So this is a really interesting section, something that's taken me years to kind of figure out Since this is print on demand, again, there's no inventory, so you can have your like, for instance, this is a phone case you can have that same design put on. Coffee mugs, you can And kind of a golden for you guys is that the vast majority of your sales overall are going to come from T-shirts specifically. All of these extra items, they don't get purchased nearly However, for many designs when you click on these, the formatting is going So if you zoom in here, that C is just about cut off and it's really close at the top as well. So you have to spend and making sure each one of so that it's not going to get cut off. And some of the issues that I've run into is you put this on a cup somewhere, you think it's going maybe you put it to the top, and someone receives that item and they wish that it was really big and it was snapped to the So even though all of these to add to your listing, one, they're not going to Two, you're going to spend that all of these are And three, this is where you're going to run into the most preference where they wanted it printed Now I will say here, if you are using passive print on demand, all of the customer service's taken care of for you, so returns, exchanges, you don't even However, if someone does make a return, you get the profit pulled you don't ever get a bill. But when you start making future profit, you have kind of a debit against that which was the profit So what I'm going to do here is just turn all these That way, I don't have to about editing these, and I know that the vast majority of my sales are going to come So that's kind of my shortcut or my hack on how to handle And then just come down and agree to the terms Guys, if you have made it you are officially a You have a listing that is live and someone can come in here, they can add this to their A couple important is that as we were talking about, they autoadded T-shirt to the end because we are looking If we were to switch this that would switch from T-shirt The other thing is that this is where our storefront So if someone clicks on that, it'll go to all of our designs. Again, this doesn't really The third thing, this is to talk about, is that on TeePublic, they set the pricing for you. This is because they are running sales, they are trying to get people It is kind of twofold here. So TeePublic, you will make probably the smallest margin per sale. You'll probably make one to $5 per sale because they're always to try to get a higher volume of sales. However, you don't have because they are handling they're handling all of the coupons, they're doing everything for you, trying to get a higher So as you can see, save 23 hours, 58 minutes. So after that time, this But I did wanna just that all the pricing is When you go to these other websites, you get to set exactly what so then you know how big your Just to give you an idea here, when you're selling on these other print on demand platforms, I would aim for somewhere around 18.99 or 19.99 for your T-shirts. This will give you a $4.89 profit on every single sale that you make. Now kind of another for you is when you are or a brand new listing, I would lower that price This is going to give you You're still going to However, this allows you so you're going to get As that design starts to get sales, you can bring this up to 16.99, 17.99, all the way up to 19.99, and then you kind of earn your You're getting about $5 per sale. And that is a really Now another thing that I'll say is if you are creating once that trend is really hitting, if you've grabbed your and you are starting or when that season is happening and your sales start to go back up, if your design is slowly creep that price up. The highest that I've is about 23.99 when everything is peaking. That gives you about $7.85 profit. And then once that season bring that price back down to 19.99 and try to get sales throughout Now, before we move on from here, I do wanna show you a couple So in regards to getting and then go to Account Settings down here, and then over on the left This is where you're able or your Payoneer email. All you have to do is enter and you'll get paid out automatically on the 15th of every month. Now the only one that's is Amazon Merch on Demand. Since they're kind of the they have their own way of doing things, so they do it through direct deposit, so they'll pay you straight Again, you don't need to have a business bank account set up, you can just use your individual Okay, so with that being said, the couple other important things to know as you are just getting The first thing I would say is knowing how many designs you should be creating. As a rule of thumb, when into print on demand, I would aim to create at least 50 or even 100 different T-shirt designs and get them uploaded to these If, for instance, you and you upload them to these you now have 400 listings out there. All of these websites are You having 400 different you are going to catch fish. A lot of people come into this business and one of the biggest mistakes they make is they only create five They wait a month, they and they think that the So when you hear people saying that print on demand is oversaturated, it's because they went They created a couple designs, uploaded them to one and it didn't get any sales. Secondly, how many and can you upload them I would recommend going into as many different niches as you can. There is no limit here. Kind of the more the merrier. It's just going to diversify your account. So no matter which niche at the time, you'll be The key here is to find these subniches within those niches. Those are the designs that And just know that you even if they're all in different niches to your same print on demand What I had been alluding is that in the past, it used to work on a Then you drive traffic Nowadays, what these is putting each design where it is best fit. So if you create something they're going to put whenever someone searches This is where all the traffic It's not going to come from And then the last thing to know is when you are in print on demand, how quickly should you be Should you start with just or should you start slower? The answer that I have for you here is going to be really helpful, and I hope you pay attention to this one. When you are starting a brand always start by uploading slowly. What these big, passive, have run into in the last couple of years is people creating bots to try to upload a ton of designs on a bunch of different So what I recommend doing with a brand new account on these websites is upload just one design per day, then work into two designs per day, and then three designs per day, What you are trying to do is prove to them that you are a real person and you are not trying Now this is actually a kind of the tier systems that are on these print So if you haven't heard of it before, all of these big passive have some kind of tier system in place. What that means is, as a new seller, they wanna make sure 1,000 designs on the first day. This is their way of finding out who is real and who is a bot. It's kind of an initial filter that does a lot of the heavy lifting for them. So with that being said, there's kind of two One is you can just let everything be and it'll automatically and get you into the full-fledged The way that you do that is just make sure that you're uploading You're following all the trademark rules and you're uploading good designs. If you just do that, these switch you over to their full tier and give you all of the full marketing. You don't have to do anything. It all happens automatically. Now, the other way to get out of these initial tiers really quickly, for those of you who just want and get right into this business is by bringing your own buyers. So I will show you a couple ways right now to do free marketing to your own listings and make purchases. These are ways that work Okay, so let me bring you We are going to start on TikTok. This is the first platform And no, you don't have to What I recommend doing and typing in T-shirt. As you can see, these don't They're just kind of a forward-facing shot of different T-shirts. Some of these will have people in them, but you definitely don't have to be in them for this to work. And what I recommend doing is going through your initial listings and picking out the ones to sell the absolute best and actually ordering some samples. Now, I would recommend just just two or three shirts. If you have the budget for of your own shirts. And just know that when from your own print on demand listing, the profit on that sale So you are essentially And one, you're going to have some shirts that you can wear, But two, you are going to be able to make these kinds of videos. And you can post that on and then you can link This works even better if on your account that are about a season that is happening right now or about trends that Then you create these kind of videos. You post them on TikTok or one other website that and you link directly to that listing. Once you've got a couple on one of the print on swap out the link in that video to one of the other marketplaces. Since you've uploaded that same design to multiple different you now are sending them to the next one, and you can get a couple This, again, is just something that you can optionally to get a jumpstart on and then those print on demand websites know that you are legit and they're going to give you the full marketing exposure. Now I will say for those of you who TikTok is really not for you, there is another website This is Pinterest. I would, again, just and you're going to see both So these are a lot easier to do. There's kind of flat lay take a photo with a nice background. Again, both trends and seasonal designs are going to work the best for this to get that quick jump in sales. Now, I know at first glance, this might seem a little overwhelming to do marketing like this, but have to do this in the beginning. If you do wanna keep it up, you can definitely generate But two, if you have the budget to get these samples of shirts, take them out of your house, go take them to popular places that a lot of other people go to. Just use your iPhone or use your smartphone The cameras are so good nowadays. Now, I do understand, you may not have the budget so I will show you another If we come all the way and we go back up and we go to this is included in your subscription. So once you create those you can then have those into all of these models. These, you can then use or post on TikTok and I will say the one about their mockups, if you go to Mockups and go to Video Mockups, this is going to sort all of their video Mockups in one place. But all of these are things you can post on TikTok that are a lot more So guys, I really hope that As a reminder, everything all the tools and discount codes will be down in the description below. Again, since this was please just give it a thumbs up and let me know down in the comments. I'm here checking the so if you have any questions, All right, guys, that is it for this one. I really hope that you enjoyed it, and I'll plan on seeing