What happens if you pour lava in water? What if you trap liquid How do you make a smoke cannon? Or a flame thrower or secret These are just a few of the. Insane science experiments This is a nitrogen rocket. We're just going to pour the liquid and once I cap this, Oh, shoot. Oh, my gosh. That's so tall. I didn't know it was chill like that. This is a woosh bottle experiment, All you need is some big jugulars, and a lighter. Pour in your alcohol. What we want to do is just swish it and we can pour out the rest. The alcohol evaporates and So now it's extremely flammable. Now that's a whoosh. These are secret spy eyeglasses, Grab an old LCD screen and cut Then there will be left a nasty layer Now, all you'll see is white. To reveal the image, simply place a polarizing Now attach this polarizing and you have secret spy glasses. This is a homemade flamethrower Cinnamon powder contains a lot of oil, That means if we dip our it should not get wet. Hey, that's still dry. But the high oil content in cinnamon So we can actually make a If we just pour some into that's gonna be our flamethrower. So if we just take a lighter and we should have a flamethrower. It's go time. Oh, yeah. You can splice DNA at home, First, blackened, I need to get this banana DNA so I can Put the bits into a Ziploc bag and We need to make the extraction salt, Now pour your extraction liquid into the Next, use a funnel and a coffee filter to Now we can add rubbing alcohol you'll start to see at the bottom is a banana, and the cloudy white stuff Now you can pick this up, play with it. Now I can grow a real banana. What happens if you We have our liquid nitrogen here. Negative 320 degrees. Anything it touches, Oh, shoot. This is a broccoli. Oh Oh. This is a bread. Mmm, yummy. We are now pouring the liquid This will create a massive smoke effect. Oh, the liquid nitrogen is The water is actually considered so it's causing the liquid nitrogen to That looks so cool. This is a self exploding balloon. To make it, baking soda, In the bigger bag, add a one to one mix of Shake it up a little bit. In the smaller bag, and before you seal it up, Now place the smaller Now when I whack the smaller bag, the vinegar is going to mix with causing a huge chemical reaction. It's go time... Oh. Oh my gosh. That's gonna be insane. Oh, it busted. This professor risked his life But what is it? So I've recreated the experiment It's called the conservation Meaning if I let go and give it a push, the weight should come back Now that's pretty dangerous. But if I don't add an then the kinetic energy It will come back but not have the initial starting point. And I'm willing to bet my life on science. If this goes wrong, I'll probably end up It's go time. This is a magnetic foil ball Steal a large piece of aluminum then wave a magnet over dirt to get to fill the center of the ball. Scrunch up your aluminum ball, beat your ball hard until it's sandpaper to smooth it out. Now you have a ball of steel. Let's see how magnetic it really is. You can use some regular magnets to. Guide it around now It's go time! Now it moves around even faster, Got it! How are these liquids floating Let's recreate this At the bottom, because I'm Canadian. In the middle, we'll have water. And at the top, we'll add oil. No matter what, these liquids won't mix because To show you the different densities, it will s all the way to the bottom water, But if we drop a grape, it will stay in the middle layer And if we drop a bottle cap, And lastly, it will float right on top And after all that, we can see the difference in density This is a real life laser beam. While it looks like it's really easy to simulate. So here's the setup. We have a 5 milliwatt laser. In front of it is a fan that we're And in order to see everything properly, we had to fog up the Believe it or not, It's all done in camera only between the shutter speed, the laser, So now it looks like the laser This chemical reaction looks like magic. There's no editing trick. It's purely a kinetic reaction. To make it at home, first pour 120ml of Crush your vitamin C into a fine powder. Then measure out 500mg and Once it's all mixed, and you can instantly see the We'll leave this aside and start Add 40 milliliters of boiling of cornstarch and mix it well. Now mix in another 100 By now, because both of our solutions are done. Now we just have to mix the and then they should instantly Whoa. This is a homemade lava lamp. All you need is baking soda, vegetable oil, a tall cup, First, feed thick spoons of This is what will power our lamp. Next step is to oil up and fill Now in a separate glass, Once we pour in our vinegar, This works because the vinegar which is making the liquid Ooo, so cute. This is a homemade smoke cannon. Smoke rings look cool, but smoking is bad. So here's how to blow smoke rings safely. First, cut a water bottle near the top since Next, cut off the top of a balloon. Stretch it out real good. So now you can easily To make smoke, put a few matches on a piece of Fold the top of the foil and take the so when you light the tip, Our bottle is now filled with smoke. Tap the back to make smoke rings. This is instant snow. To make it, all you need is distilled water which is found in diapers. This material can absorb 800 And when you add some water, Now let's try on a bigger scale Oh my gosh. It's starting to look a lot like Christmas. I feel like Elsa. It's time to experiment We got cook unity. This is something new you gotta try. It's a first chef to you. Meal delivery service. They have over 70 chefs that cook all Each week you can select from seven paleo and gluten free. Meals are delivered fresh, never frozen. This is a medium steak. You usually don't get that the menu rotates every week, so there's always something new to try. Subscriptions are super flexible. You can pause, Some meals I got this week are by Jose Garces Adobo, flank steak by Inad Admoni and polenta by Ludbo Lefebre. The steak one's definitely my favorite. I love how fresh and I love cookunity because all the meals are cheaper than if you ordered takeout. If you want to try a box for yourself, go to cookunity.com hafugo50 or click the at checkout for 50% off your first order. I promise you it will be worth a try. What happens if you pour lava in water? Minecraft tells me it will make an So to test if that's true, we. Have to make some lava. First heat up the furnace, Heat up until it turns bright All right, our lava is melted. Now let's get it into the pool. Oh my gosh, that looks so cool. Woo hoo. Let's dump the whole thing in. It's boiling and turning Now we just have to dive down So we retrieved all of our rocks. The texture here is super interesting. You can basically break it That means Minecraft is a lie. If you want to watch more cool. Experiments,