(light music) (Natasha sighs) - (chuckles) Hey everybody, it's Natasha of natashaskitchen.com and I have such a treat for you. I'm gonna show you how we This is creamy, cheesy, and oh so delicious. And stay tuned for the creative way we serve this at the end. It is my son's favorite. Let's get started. (bell dings) This takes just 30 minutes to make, so prep all of your ingredients, so they're ready when you need them. Chop four cups of small broccoli florets and you can also use just peel and dice them Peel three medium carrots and If you haven't already, on how to sharpen a knife You'll need one cup of finely diced onion, so slice one medium onion. We're just using a regular yellow onion, but you can use a white You've probably noticed, a ton in my prep work. I love this tool and I will And last but not least, we're gonna get the cheese You'll need 2/3 cup of and two cups or four ounces of shredded sharp cheddar cheese. This box grater gets and I will link to this as well. In a five and a half quart over medium heat melt and we always use unsalted so we can control the salt. Add the finely diced and saute until the onion has softened or about five minutes, (metal clanking) Next, add four cups of We do have a recipe for which I will link in the notes. Season with one teaspoon of garlic powder, one teaspoon of sea salt, a and a quarter teaspoon of dried thyme. Bring that to a boil over medium heat. Add the broccoli, bring then partially cover and continue cooking until the broccoli is softened. This takes about 10 to 12 minutes, depending on the It's a great time for a coffee break and if you want a closer or the rest of our kitchen, check out our kitchen video tour. Once the broccoli is at remove and set aside You'll need to blend the You can use an immersion blender and blend it right inside the pot, or transfer it in batches to Blend it until it's completely smooth or your desired consistency. Now to thicken the soup, in a small bowl combine half a cup of heavy whipping cream of all purpose flour and and no longer lumpy. Then blend in one The mixture will be thick like a frosting. Bring the blended soup back to a boil, then whisk in the cream and flour mixture, whisking for about three to four minutes or until it's completely Remove the pot from the heat and stir in your Parmesan cheese and Continue stirring until the cheese is dissolved into the soup. We take it off the heat because if the mixture gets the cheese may clump together and won't incorporate properly. Lastly, stir in the cooked vegetables that we set aside earlier to taste with salt and pepper. The soup is ready to be served. You can transfer it into bowls and serve with toast or crackers, but our favorite way to To make individual bread bowls, you'll need six to seven inch in diameter sourdough round loaves, Using a serrated knife, cut off the tops. Scoop out the centers with a spoon to make room for the soup and don't get rid of those centers. They are delicious and I love Cut one bread bowl for each serving, then broil in the center of your oven for two to three minutes, keeping a close eye on Ooh! I love recreating restaurant And I am excited because I'm hungry. So let's do this taste test. Okay, here we go. Ooh, kinda hot. Oh and toasting the breads like this makes it taste like it 'cause it crisps the outside It is so good. It tastes super fresh. Okay. Now, I'm just gonna ladle a right into the bread bowl. It's so fun. (laughs) I serve it for this like my son. He gets excited 'cause it's Yum yum. Creamy and cheesy. All right. And I love to serve this because once you add a little bit of extra cheddar cheese over the top, it melts onto the soup then you get this lovely little cheese pull. So that's what's gonna happen right now. Let's give it a second. Okay, I'm just gonna do this. I'm so hungry. (laughs) Here we go. Oh, this is so creamy. Yum and loaded with broccoli and veggies. I love that it's just half But the texture is amazing. Mm. I love that this is staring Mm. Mm. Wow. That is a 10. Seriously, comfort in a bowl and the ultimate broccoli cheese soup. I think what really makes this is not just adding the cheddar cheese, but also that Parmesan which cheesy goodness to this soup. Wow, (laughs) if you love you have to have to try this and that little bit of and a little bit goes a long way, but it really amps up all the flavors and brings this together to keep the inside of the Ah, this is just the best way to soak up that creamy goodness. Dunk it right in. Mm. And these sourdough bread They're just like out of the restaurant. This is my son's favorite way to eat this. Feels like eating out and then also, because we toasted the bread and the texture is just like So delicious. Look at that. Listen to the crunch. (bread crunches) Make this soup. You're gonna feel like (laughs) I'm gonna go enjoy this. I hope you guys enjoyed this episode and we'll see you in our next video.