(cellphone ringing) - Hi, it's Doug. You've seen pine cones before, right? Here in California in the mountains, you can find pine cones Kinda makes you wonder that something like this comes from? There are some incredibly huge Someone named Alejandro Let's give them a call now. (cellphone ringing) - Hi Doug. - Hi Alejandro. - I have a question for you. What's the biggest tree in the world? - That's a great question. When I was a little boy, I think one of the first stories was the story of Jack and the Beanstalk. Jack finds some magic beans that he can climb high up into the sky. I remember thinking, &quot;Wow, Or I also remember seeing cartoons that had trees so big around that people could live inside of them. Trees in real life are as being big and tall, Is there a real life version of these cartoons and fairytales? Now, for a question like what's I suppose you or I could always or look it up in a book or But if you just found the that would leave out one of the best parts which is how do we even know It's not like you can just &quot;Hey, do you happen to know &quot;what the biggest tree in the world is?&quot; Now, you might have seen some but there are trees growing on almost every continent on Earth. So in order to figure out we, human beings, had all around the world. It can be tempting to They're all pretty similar. They've got bark. They've got leaves. They grow tall, cool. But as people have explored one of the most surprising is just how different trees can be and some of them are amazing. This one called Rainbow has some of the most colorful or this one called a Kapok tree, you wouldn't want to climb this, look at the thorns growing And check out this tree called a Jabuticaba tree It grows these shiny black but all up and down its trunk. It's so weird. But while all of these trees are amazing, none of them are anywhere close to making the list of some of the biggest trees in the world. Now for that, we have to the Baobab tree of Africa. Look at that thing. It doesn't even look real, but it is. Or check out this, the Sitka Spruce. Lots of these trees grow along Now, trees like these are you could live inside of one. And in old ones that have some people have done just that. Look at this entire room someone created inside of a Sitka Spruce. But now wait a second because here's a tree in New Which one looks bigger to you? A Baobab or a Kauri tree? Seeing big trees like this when we talk about we could mean different things. What are some of the different ways someone could mean biggest when they're talking about Before I say anything more, Now would be a good if you wanna think about it. Okay, you ready? Well, seeing some of these it matters what we mean when we say biggest tree in the world. We could mean the tree like the size of its trunk. We could mean the tallest Or we could even mean the And it turns out there is not for all of these. Different kinds of trees Baobabs and even Kauri trees but they're not the biggest. That award goes to this tree in Mexico, a tree named El Tule found It's a type of tree called a Cypress. From one side of its trunk to the other, this tree's trunk is the So what about the heaviest and Well, even though they're they're both found in the same place, the US State of California. In little parts spread around California, you can find entire forests There's even two different national parks. One of them Sequoia National Park is home to the heaviest the Giant Sequoia. This photo gives you a a Sequoia tree is. Not only are these trees incredibly tall, they're also incredibly wide which is what makes them so heavy. The largest Sequoia tree of them all, a tree people have named General Sherman, currently holds the world's record for being the largest And that leaves, last but not least, the tallest trees in the world. These are Redwoods. They're a cousin of the Sequoia. They look similar. You can even see they get pretty wide. This Redwood tree in the is so wide that an entire This tunnel was carved into Luckily, the tree is still alive, but carving tunnels like this isn't something people do anymore Now, while Redwood trees don't get quite as wide they do get taller. The tallest tree in the world is 380 feet tall. This gives you a sense So in summary, to figure out what the we have to go out and explore. There are amazing huge trees The tallest and heaviest ones known being the Redwoods and That's all for this week's question. Thanks Alejandro for asking it. Now, for the next episode, I reached into my question jar and picked out three that I'm thinking about answering next. When this video is done playing, You can choose from: Who invented rubber? Can animals laugh? Or how does a clam make a pearl? So submit your vote I wanna hear from all of you watching. There are mysteries all around us. Stay curious and see you next week.