- What would it be like working as a shepherd (gentle music) From April until October, In this film, you'll get to meet some of Europe. I don't think I can keep So much mud. (Eva exclaims) In a world that's losing its connections to tradition at a breakneck pace, these shepherds are some of the old ways. (gentle music) - Thanks to the legendary I got exclusive access to film with them as they wrap up the season and spend a few last up on the mountain before winter. So could you live like this? Let's watch and see. It is 7:30 AM in October. Rainy. Very, very rainy. Quite cold. And I can't drive up this road 'cause it is incredibly muddy, so I'm gonna have to walk all (gentle music) Today is the kind of day all that most people would wanna do, is just, like, bury yourself inside your bed, and not come out. But I guess that's a luxury that the shepherd life so I'm gonna go up there But before I could reach the hut, I got swarmed by a pack who protect this property and its sheep. (dogs barking) If you didn't know these dogs, you'd have the right to be terrified. They are cute. Hi baba. Hi, hi, hi. So many. Yeah, okay. (gentle music) You know, once you get here, you get to pet the dog, His head is like three The hut I'm filming at is It belongs to Jarek Buczek, who is a famous local shepherd of maintaining local herding traditions. And this is Kamil. He's 25 years old, and he's a shepherd, or a juhas, as they're better known here. He's lived and worked at So one of the most special these shepherds' huts is that the shepherds actually So from April until October, living in the hut with the animals. And I'm about to show you Like, if you come here as you can take a look at the hut, you can buy some cheese. But I wanna show you inside which is something that (gentle music) - This is a shower, you guys. What an amazing shower cabin. Look at that view. That's beautiful. Okay, let's go inside it. Oh super. The guys are super, to leave the hut tomorrow, and they're just, they left me here to take a look around, and I don't know about you, but I just, I love this place. It is so sweet, so adorable. It's like a little mountain studio. Like, people pay a lot of money to stay in places like this, you know? No luxuries here, just In the summer, Kamil spend all their waking hours So these four walls are a shelter to protect them (gentle music) - It was time for Kamil to It was a cold and rainy October day. The kind of wet cold that chills you down to the But when your job is herding sheep, you can't allow yourself to indulge in such minor details as the cold. Whenever I've spoken to shepherds around the world about the weather, they always seem to say, &quot;There is no such thing as bad weather. There's just weather.&quot; I got so busy flying the drone that I didn't realize just how so I'm just trying to catch up. He's so fast. The good news is that even you can hear them because of the bells. So you hear that? It's definitely coming (light upbeat music) One of the few redeeming and mud is that you can of the sheep in the mud. So I'm gonna play Oh God, where am I? (light upbeat music continues) - It's a little bit hard to film anything with so many dogs - [Eva] When I asked Kamil when he first started working out here, he said at 16 years old. At 16 he was already or 900 sheep and walked these hills (gentle music) (sheep bells clanging) (gentle music continues) - Just trying to be very mindful and very demure, walking very slowly. I don't wanna spook these guys because if I do, they could scatter, and I think that would ruin Kamil's day. So I'm no shepherd but I think I'm accidentally So these sheep don't actually It's a motley crew of sheep that belong to various people from villages all around the area. At the start of the the sheep get dropped who pay a symbolic fee to the herder to take them out over the summer. Every year the herd gets smaller because fewer and fewer people own sheep. This small herd is a that this way of life and all the traditions that come with it are also slowly disappearing. (gentle music continues) Kamil is way up ahead once again, but when you have a giant it's kind of hard to get lost. So yeah, I feel like I'm (gentle majestic music) - You know, Kamil said something earlier that really resonated with me. He said that in order you almost have to have it in your blood. It has to be like running And I can so see that. You know, I really feel is one of the toughest jobs in the world, but it is also one of the most human, if you know what I mean. 'Cause we were meant to be outside being active, breathing Not locked up in tiny apartments (gentle music) Oh Jesus. Oh my God. How do they do it? I don't think I can keep up with him. (exclaims) So much mud. (Eva exclaims) Careful. Careful. Just don't die. (yells) (Eva laughs) This is on another level. (gentle music continues) Eventually, at the end of the day, Kamil and the sheep and the The summer days are long. Often they're out for But as the winter draws near they need to be back These forests are home to wolves, and sheep make for easy prey. At the hut, behind an I would've loved to show but this late in the season, Let me know if you'd like to at the height of the season next year, and I'll think about coming out here to film with them again. (gentle music continues) This is the last night that the sheep will spend for the next six or seven months. Tomorrow is the end of the season, the end of the sheep herding season, and so everybody will go down (sheep bell clanging) all of winter, and some of spring. This place will feel very, very quiet and empty all of a sudden. It does kind of amaze me that the only thing very, very precious 600 sheep, the only thing that separates the bears, and just, you know, is this flimsy electrical fence The dogs themselves are incredibly hardy, and they are bred to ward so I guess that all makes sense. (gentle music) In the meantime, Kamil made sure that the cheeses were The next morning, the With the herding season ending, the hut will remain (light gentle music) So this dog is unfortunately so the guys are gonna take He's not gonna herd sheep anymore. (car door bangs) (gentle music) Kamil headed out for one Later today, the entire village will But for now, things are still I managed to catch Jarek, in a rare moment of peace. (gentle music continues) - [Eva] I was wondering what Jarek thought about the future of Given that there are fewer and fewer sheep every year in the herd, will these traditions survive? - [Eva] Aside from working hands, I was curious to find what Jarek saw as other challenges to And his answer surprised me. - [Eva] There was one last and it's an amazing local tradition that has to do with fire. (gentle music) - [Eva] Jarek sat down by (gentle music continues) - Well, it is time to go down the mountain and I'm hitching a ride The cheeses are up front 'cause the cheeses are the real VIPs here. And I'm in the back with the little pup. So I'm here in the back so unfortunately he But yeah, we're going home hey. Going home for the season. (gentle music) (upbeat traditional music) Today is the last day that the sheep are out in the mountains and in just a few hours they'll for the first time since April and go back to their respective owners. Finally, Kamil has some company with men from the village coming to spend these last moments So this is it. It's almost 2:00 PM, which means that it's almost give thanks for this So we're just up here on a and we'll head out there very soon. Yeah, after that we celebrate. (gentle music) In the meantime, I got a quick lesson in - Aha, okay. (playful flute music) - Well I guess we started our celebration a little bit earlier, but... Cheers. Na zdrowie. (upbeat music) While Kamil was walking around down in the local chapel, the to welcome the sheep back into the village at the end of a long season. (upbeat music continues) This celebration I'm about (upbeat traditional music) - You know, it's a little bit wild to see so many people are here, and the fact that this is, a pretty big festival here You know, the vibe was just so it was just so, so different. So much more quiet. But here it's like, yeah, everybody's come to (upbeat traditional music) The sheep are now down at the village for the first time in five months, and soon they'll spend the (upbeat traditional music continues) Meanwhile, today, Jarek, Kamil, and the other shepherds get over the last season. It probably helps that the watching and admiring, in awe of everything these shepherds do to keep tradition alive. At least for one more year. (upbeat traditional music continues)