MATT PARKER: Ok, there is a new world record largest yesterday and today I had a special In here we have the newly discovered Mersenne prime. In here is 2 to the power of 74,207,281 (make sure I get that right) BRADY HARAN: Minus one? MATT PARKER: Minus one. Trivial at that size. If you were actually to print over 22 million digits. It's around 22,338,618 digits and no one would be foolish them the moment the number was announced, [Cutting] MATT PARKER: There it is! There it is! This is the new world record, look at that! That is 2 to the power of 74,207,281 minus 1. These are the digits, Volume II. Volume II of III. So there's Volume III, and so there's we should start at the beginning, this is, Look at that! This is the new prime number! This is... we suspect we are, well we're definitely the we're still the only people to have ever million digits printed in tiny, tiny make it easier to locate the digits Right, so I don't think people get very excited when a new prime number's found, but very rarely do you actually get to pick it up and hold it. weighty... that is some weighty mathem- And this, obviously I'm environmentally Now, finding prime numbers mathematicians and you know for millennia, thousands and mathematicians have been obsessed with finding prime numbers, numbers with no factors and harder to break the world record of so the previous world record was three watching Numberphile videos for that long video on the previous world record and that have another one but they're getting so almost five million digits longer than around 17 million up to around 22 every digit, the number is 10 times the orders of magnitude bigger. I mean, that's record has now been taken by Professor Curtis Cooper. and he was running loads of won the world record off the previous of the University of Central Missouri so to be entire- I mean I... I run the software I'd be happy with anything in the top hogging the top spot and so he found two someone else got the world record back three years ago and now he's just Captain Prime. So the way this works if known to humankind is you just, you don't software and you run it on your computer. office running a bit of software to try and find will send your computer a candidate to see if it's prime or not, and, more So you send it back and go &quot;Sorry be sent a number your computer will about and a number like this takes about a month, so your computer will sit there for a end... it's not gonna be prime. But, very rarely, and officially you found it, it's your counts as a world record prime once it's because obviously this number's always existed. This number predates our universe so it's spotted it and so your computer finding it that it exists and human goes, &quot;Hey, check it out!&quot; new prime number and, so yes you can win, well there's You can win, you know, accolades and BRADY HARAN: Sounds like a lottery, winning it, and yet MATT PARKER: It does sound like a lottery doesn't it, that they're just handing out numbers err... Curtis's secret is he has a lot of computers. So he had a chat with the &quot;Look, all your computers, you've got them like they're on 24 hours,&quot; because and things to the computers and so they And he goes, &quot;We don't waste all that computing power.&quot; And so they agreed to let him put the Great Internet Mersenne Prime Search or Ah, if you're gonna look it up online, don't Google... Prime Search&quot; and he put it on all the computers. university there, whenever they're not this. So some computer sat there for a month, people were coming in using it for assignments turned the lights out, it would fire and go &quot;Right where am I up to?&quot; right and then it prime or not, and for one of them it was prime and got sent off to the server. MATT PARKER: The 12th term in the Lucas-Lehmer sequence, but we only have to find it mod 8191. So to start with it's the same, you have 4