This is the new Porsche 911 GT3. And this is the new Touring version. And this is Porsche GT boss Andy Preuninger, who'll tell us all about it, including the Touring's new back seats. But more of that later. Hello and welcome to the where we're about to look at which generally means a car that looks except more expensive. But hang on a minute. Haven't we very recently done Well, yes, we have. But it turns out that Porsche is getting a little bit frisky, so instead of waiting a little bit of time it's already here. So, just to be clear, this latest generation of the 911 You know, the one that's been made to increase But it did cause a bit of a stir, with everyone wondering whether it was the But fear not, because the new GT3 For a start, no hybrid or turbos. It's a naturally aspirated 4.0-litre flat-six, That means it will rev to 9,000rpm with the kind of throttle response There are tweaks to the front and rear, including a new front splitter and diffuser, new fins under the floor And there's liberal use of CFRP, in the bodywork and suspension. And that suspension has bits of GT3 RS in it. Ooh! There are new designs for the wheels and if you throw them in with the new Weissach package, you can get a new GT3 down to about 1,400kg, which is actually pretty light. Oh, and the Clubsport package is still available. I have to say, white with gold wheels You can have a six-speed manual like this one, if you skipped left leg day. But the really interesting thing is in both gearboxes, the gear ratios are actually 8% shorter, Oh, yeah. And the manual gearshift lever but I have to say, the ergonomics as ever That means 0 to 62 in 3.4 seconds for the PDK, a bit slower at 3.9 for the manual. Top speeds for both are roughly 195mph. The steering is said to be much improved, And like all the latest generation 911s, And it's got some nice new tricks in it. So you can rotate the rev counter But there's some other interesting little bits in this car. The bucket seats are now foldable, and you see this little pad in the headrest? Well, that actually comes out, And that's good because GT3s But what if you wanted all that in something that's a little bit less showy? Well, Porsche has you covered. Because, from launch, you can also have a GT3 as a Touring. Well, hello. So the GT3 Touring is essentially the Secret Service GT3. So you get all the modifications from the normal car but shorn of the more obvious wings. Although you can get a lightweighting package Now the inside is a bit more comfy, But the big news is that now you can option And I don't know about you, Now that's something you have to do on normal 911s, but it's the first time you can do it on a GT3 Touring. So the Touring is becoming a much more but that is actually a story which started here. Because Porsche has actually This is a 2.7 RS from 1973, but back in the day, the Touring name more sound-insulated kind of street version rather than the really stripped out 2.7s. The modern version of a Touring actually starts here with the 911 R. Because back in 2016, this was but without the wings and a manual gearbox. Now this also had a 4.0-litre with just under 500bhp and that manual gearbox. Now journalists went mad for these cars back in 2016 and I remember testing it at the And we were there for a week. And I was so enamoured with this car, that I actually ended up driving it back from Austria, all the way back to the factory in Stuttgart. And yes, I took the long way home. I think I did about 1,000 miles in one. The interesting thing was, I didn't put because it didn't have one. The 911 R was a very light car. It was about 1,370kg wet. And that was because it didn't have and it made use of lots of carbon fibre Now, does this sound familiar? Well, it does to me because I think this is the start of the modern Touring story. Originally, a 911 R - just like And now, if you go online, you will struggle And the same goes for the more recent 911 S/T. And that's because they're limited-run unicorns, bought by people with long associations Believe me, a lot of Macans and Cayennes are sold But Porsche knows about flippers and canny investors. And as a company, it has a way of mitigating that's got quite a lot of the same vibes as those specials, but without all the limits and silly money. Although, back in 991 era GT3, they cost PS111,000. This 992.2 starts at PS157,300 for either model. But if there's one man to ask about that, it's this guy, Andreas Preuninger, So Andy, you've improved the GT3. How do you improve a GT3 without making it Not a problem for us and it's a simple answer because the next RS is not communicated, it's still in the works, to overcompensate that this car It's always a challenge for us, it's a driving factor for our engineers, for having ideas, for using technology and we don't hold back. So we want to give everything We don't want to put something away for the future. We rather challenge ourselves to work to overcompensate that - Yeah, but that's crazy! And in the case of the next RS, So we are not shying away of taking stuff So the interesting thing is you're not shy of making a I like problems. We all do. We need a little bit of pressure and... challenge. Because this car has actually got parts of RS on it, hasn't it? - So the trailing arms are the - Absolutely. Suspension bits, like the - Does it though? Or is it just cool? It adds 40kg of downforce at top speed. So at 200k... ..that might be maybe even 16 or 17kg. That's a lot. Yeah? Yeah, that is. But you have to do 180mph. No, no, no, no. For the 40kg you do, yeah? - Ah, OK. you're doing it on every straight I mean, an RS is really a car made for the track, made for the people that are using it It is not a one-trick pony, because it's really great on the road as well, an RS. But its main purpose is to go to the track. It's quite focused. This car is more like a car that you It is just wider for the field of use. It's great on the track. It's not as fast as an RS. It doesn't want to be. But it's great on the road as well. - So the interesting thing now on this generation is that you've got a bit more distance and a more track-focused one, because you've got... what have you got now? - We've got the Weissach package. - It's the first time we offer the Weissach package. It has carbon-fibre parts all over the car. And it has lightweight suspension components, For instance, the rear sway bars are carbon fibre, the shear plate is carbon fibre. even the mirrors are 140g lighter. - Vital... - ..to have carbon fibre mirror caps. You have carbon-fibre end plates, carbon fibre... - So these are new as well? The end plates There's a new rear bumper? - What material can you have the roll cage in? - The roll cage that comes with the - Oh, really? The wheels are the main factor. More than 10kg of weight advantage. They're actually the wheels of the S/T. - OK, so there's an element of it. - And there's this racy interior, and the lightweight door panels, which has this netting here for transportation, putting in your mobile and the carbon-fibre handle. So it's all like 100g here, 100g there. There's a lightweight carpetry that is 1.7kg lighter and it's all the details, it adds up. And it makes the car more track-ready And it looks it. Look at the carbon-fibre stripe. Have it or not, But yeah, the car has gained subtle, but it looks more racy now. - If you were going to track a GT3 regularly, - For the track, I would always take the PDK. Because you get one gear more, you've got a seven-speed instead of a six-speed, you've got just a shorter ratio and, I mean, if you're head-to-head with a manual car and you've got a long straight the advantage in the timing of the shifting So you're ahead on the next curve, story told. Wow! Because I know that the PDK is It doesn't sound like a lot, Three gear changes side by side just because you can't shift as quick as a PDK. Is a manual lighter, though? The manual is 20kg lighter, so the manual gearbox is a If I want to take the Touring on go driving just for the sake of driving, It depends on what you want to do with the car. So the car offers a huge bandwidth, depending on what the customer wants. Track the car or even use the car on a daily basis. If you're in a traffic jam, You don't have to clutch around all the time. But if you want a driver's car, if you want the full... the full involvement, I would say, my personal advice is go manual. But this is making the GT3 have much more bandwidth within - Because you've got the Secret Service version. The kind of James Bond thing. It's not an Aston. - No. I just realised that. I shouldn't have said James Bond! (LAUGHS) I meant that kind of, you know... that's - It's elegant. It's down-to-earth. Nobody will object if you're driving along in that. So it's just another Porsche. - And now has four seats as an option. You can take... Well, small kids, And then you've got the options on this So the distance between Touring and full-on Weissach-pack GT3 is much greater. - It is. If you spec it accordingly, but you can And with a lightweight package. And with a lightweight package It's similar to the Weissach package of that car, but there's always the magnesium wheels This is just another option. Because then you can have a lightweight Touring, but you can have a Clubsport GT3, And then, I don't know which one I want. That's the problem. This is a small, a little bit... and you can spec this a little bit more to the RS. - Gotcha. So that's the directions they can pull in. So is that just an S/T for people Or is an S/T still a different vibe? Maybe this is the everyday car for the S/T owner Honestly, it's a driver's car, it's manual, it has the same gearing than an S/T, it has even the same engine. Is it an S/T? No, it's not. Is it close? Yeah, maybe. What percentage? Is it 80% of an S/T? Is it 90% of an S/T? Oh, wow. Because at the moment, it's only about I would say it's 85%. So it's pretty close, but an S/T still got that... - S/T-ism. - I mean, the S/T is a super lightweight, If I would have to make the decision to go from, I think I'd take that one. I would have a lot of fun, but my ears would be still on. And if I would need a car just for the sake of driving, just to go out, like you use a motorcycle, So, but this is not my real options because... - Because you're a normal human being. but I can use them from the car pool, But it's not an S/T, it doesn't want to be an S/T, but it's definitely a choice for somebody couldn't get one, spec it accordingly, you've got something that's really close. - Pretty special. - What I'm trying to say is, in 2024, because of eight years of progress? Better car for what, you know? This is a car with four seats that and not getting rid of the grin on your face because you have a race-tech technology And you really can use it on a daily basis. 911 R is a hardcore driver's car that you take out to enjoy driving as you But it would be tiring after four or five hours, So, for longer journeys, for longer time in the car, this might be the better car even. Does it make that a better car? Depends on what you want to do with it. But if you ask me, would I prefer I would take this one. Yeah, so it's just a matter of time really Yeah, yeah. Definitely. What happens when... Because getting the 4.0-litre to meet emissions Yeah, that was the main problem or the because emissions go on and on and on and between the first generation, there's in some values that you have to comply to, it's 40% less. - 40%? So if you look at the amount of particles in the exhaust gas, it's way stricter than it has been. So for us it was a challenge. Can we realise an engine that feels high revving, only atmospherical, typical GT3, Is it possible? And luckily and - But that's without turbocharging... that it doesn't have more horsepower - Yeah. What does it tell you? So... - That's the way you've made it up... and so we compensate for that. We lose some top speed, but I couldn't care less. It's not the party trick of a GT3 anyway A straight line is the connection between two curves. And this is where the car... I always love it when you say that. You've always said that about your 911s. For me personally, it's relatively no matter how fast the car accelerates, - See, the thing is, I think people, and there was T-Hybrid for GTS everyone looked to GT3 and thought, I know. And everyone panicked because GT3 See? That's why we didn't do it. And we talked a lot with customers about this. And the number one wish was always keep it light, keep it high revving, keep the sound, keep the sound. And yes, it would accelerate faster on a straight line but it would weigh a lot more Would I think we would be ready for I would clearly say no. Yeah, and I'm 58 now. So make your maths yourself. So maybe that's not something... - Maybe that's not something that I will lead. Maybe I'm sitting on my rocking chair and... - Drinking whisky. In all seriousness, I think electrification is necessary. I think we're doing a great job at Porsche to offer both. But this is the complete other side of the parliament. It's the only car, one of the very few cars that has that offers a six-speed gearbox. It is the driver's car that lives with to overcompensate or to compensate It's a challenge, but it has a right to be there and we're doing it for a special kind of customer, and it's a special kind of car. And I'm trying heavily to concentrate exactly on that for the next five years as well with my team. And after that, we'll see. - Every time you have launched a car, so that when I turned up to actually see it with you, there was a little bit more. Now, I was trying to figure out what you'd kept back. Was it the fact that the Touring had four seats? Was it the fact that it had a twist starter Which bit have you been secretly thinking, this is a lovely detail on this car? Or was it the foldable bucket seat? I mean, there's lots of things or the headrest that you can take out. Because we talked to the customer and said, &quot;Oh, I would like to have a seat that can because I'm almost bumping on the headrest... &quot; And look at this, I'm just getting in. So, that's the seat pad in the headrest. By the push of a button, I can take out the headrest and free up some space, some package space for the helmet. And then you can sit upright and you don't So, this is just something small and something little... - And then, that bucket seat... ..is now, that's now a foldable bucket seat. Yeah. That's a foldable bucket seat which are important because a GT3 It's an option only, but if you tick one box, tick the seats. - So that's driven by customers. - That is your customer saying to you, I need those two seats. And driven by the team and by me. I don't like starting buttons, So we have still this key lookalike switch here. We kept that. And another thing that is very important to me, all these assistance systems that you need, the assistance by law... ..because you can't homologate Like the lane change assist, And we have one switch here... - You can switch them off with And this is really something that helps, especially when you're on the track or when you just want driving We have a digital dash now, but I think we made it a... No, it's not boo. I was totally against it and I said, Actually, if you look at this, if I pull this button, then you can turn the tach around like in old race cars. You have the maximum rev on top, you know. That's why in the historical race cars, they turned around their tach to align it... Yeah, it still has a shift light, which is then here. It's a little bit differently arranged You see here the shift lights are on both sides But we had to change this for the race view because then you've got the shift light a bit bigger, only on the right-hand side, and the fuel gauge as well. 15 years or 10 years ago, I would have chosen the wing car. Now I would choose something and I'm sitting in it. [Tom] So there's some insight into the new GT3 There is the vague feeling that the is only really a set-up to sell, well, endless new 911s, which isn't that surprising for a car company, but it can get confusing. But the fact remains that even cars like the GT3 offer 85% of the experience which I kinda like. Both the straight GT3 and Touring which is more than a 911 R when it was new, with the Weissach package at PS19,530 or PS15,597 without the roll cage. And then there's the lightweight package so you can up the cost considerably. So which would you have? Wings and all the jingle-jangle, or a GT3 Touring that slips by almost unnoticed? Let me know.