We humans are unable to experience the Our senses and brains can only So we have to use concepts and tools, to Technological progress not only widened it also made us aware of unsettling possibilities. In the future, it might become possible But if this is an option, how can we know What if we are not creators, but creations? Is it possible that we are not real, If our current understanding of physics is correct, Then, it's impossible to simulate the whole universe, But we don't actually need to, anyway. We only need enough universe to fool into thinking that they're real. Who needs billions of galaxies? We only need the space our The vast universe could just be a flat projection, and they would have no way to know. What about small things like cells or bacteria? We don't really need them. When you use a microscope, what you Same with atoms the chair you're sitting simulated with quadrillions of atoms. We just need the outermost layer of it, it might be empty inside, until you Your body might feel like it's filled with bubbly things, The minimum requirement for our simulation, Our subjects just need to think the simulation is real. Okay, so are we being simulated? Well, maybe, but there are a few Obviously, we have no authority over this topic, Based on a modified version of the original we have five assumptions for you. If they're true, you dear viewer are living in a simulation. Assumption one, it's possible to simulate consciousness Nobody knows what consciousness is. For the sake of argument, let's assume that you could generate consciousness by simulating a brain. Brains are pretty complex. If you count every interaction between your brain runs at about ten to the power of seventeen, for one hundred million billion operations, per second. Let's generously assume we need ten to simulate one second of human consciousness. But, we don't want to simulate just one human... We want to simulate all of human history at once, Let's say we want to simulate two hundred billion humans, with an average life span of fifty years. One year has thirty million seconds times fifty years times two hundred billion humans times ten to the power of twenty operations. So we need a computer able to handle million, More operations than there are stars The computer like this is just impossible. Except, maybe it isn't. Assumption two, technological progress will not stop anytime soon. If we assume that technological progress continues then there might be galaxy spanning civilizations, Beings on a technology level so advanced, that we A computer that can handle a million trillion, trillion, trillion operations is serious business, but there are actually concepts for computers, The Matrioshka Brain, is the theoretical megastructure, made up of billions of parts orbiting a star, A computer of this scale, would have enough if not millions of humanities, at the same time. Other technologies, like high-end future quantum computers might lower the size drastically, so it might be possible to do this with a structure the size of a large city, or even smaller. But, only if there's still someone around Assumption three, advanced civilizations don't destroy themselves. If there is a point at which all civilizations destroyed themselves, this whole discussion ends here. Looking into space, you'd expect to universe filled, but we see nobody. the reason for this might be, Great Filters. Great Filters are barriers life has to overcome, asteroids, climate change or a black hole generator. If life is inherently self-destructive, We explain this in more detail, in our Assumption four, super advanced civilizations, want to run simulations. When we speak of posthuman civilizations, To think we know what beings as powerful Imagine the smartest ant on earth living It's curious about what humans are up to, Unfortunately, the ant just doesn't understand. The concept of rollercoasters and standing doesn't make sense to an ant living an ant life. It's the same with us and a posthuman being, compared to them, we are ants. Running simulations for fun or science, But, if they do want to run simulations for whatever reasons and assumptions one, two, three are true too, then the chances are not zero that you Assumption five, if there are a lot of simulations, you are if there are simulated civilizations, After all, we assume that post human beings have access to practically unlimited computing power. So if they run simulations, it would be convenient If there are billions of simulated universes, there are probably trillions and trillions of simulated conscious beings. which would mean that the vast majority of all conscious beings that will ever have existed, are simulated. So, for every conscious being made of flesh, Since we have no way of knowing if we are simulated or not, in this case, the chances of you being one nine hundred and ninety nine thousand nine hundred ninety nine simulated ones, are pretty high. So, what you consider reality, might not be real at all You really might be... simulated. All of this is based on a lot of assumptions So many scientists disagree with So don't burn your house down to test If you are simulated, not that much changes for you you might be on a small planet speeding or a simulation inside a computer. your existence does not become All we can hope to do is try to live good lives, And hope that if we actually are simulations nobody trips over the power cable. Oh, oh, oh no, I think I just unplugged the simulation But what if that doesn't matter, what if we are in one right now? What if you are simulated? Jake, over at Vsauce3 is looking into that. Click here to watch his video and Why are you still here? go over to Vsauce3 watch the video and subscribe, we promise, it's worth your time...