So you want to learn how to sound like Well, I'm sure I can help with that. Right let's keep this quick. If you want sound like one. once. to make sure you've Right. important vowel in the Birmingham accent is the 'U'. We don't say 'but,' 'cut'. We say put, but and cut. Like a monkey. Don't be tempted to say Is that clear? Good. Listen to this &quot;Arthur, shut up.&quot; Shut up. Now let's talk about diphthongs, right? So in a word like this: game. The 'a' A-E. Game. Name. Fame. and it's more of an I-E so it's actually I to an E rather than an A to an name. Let's move on. So in words where in RP you might say this sound: 'oh.' In Birmingham we say 'ow'. to London. So instead of saying float we say float. Can you see how i'm going from a Aah. It's like Ah. Aah Ooh. Float. Boat. No. Listen to the difference Float. Float. Have a look at this example: &quot;He knows better words. Right, Pol?&quot; He knows. Oh. Alright let's move on: 'I' sound. Now, in RP you might say things like: quit, fit, bit. However in Birmingham we say: quit, bit, fit. Do you see how I'm making an IH sound rather than an EH. It's a lot It's closer to E then anything else, It's in the nose. Alright? Quit. &quot;Whose duty it is.&quot; Whose duty it is. It is. It is. Moving on. In RP you would say words Bath, grass and pass. So that in Birmingham we say bath, path Alright? It's an 'A' sound rather than an replace it with an 'A' like you're about to Alright? A-pple. And finally, the vowel sound 'Y'. When words end in a 'Y', like funny, money or... Thick Birmingham accents will pronounce the 'Y' as an 'uy'. Penny. Money. It's like a diphthong at the end it's like you've put a 'U' in it. Move your tongue from laying flat to passage of air a little bit to help you Just listen to this: &quot;Tommy!&quot; It's complex but i'm sure with practice you'll get there. Alright let's move on Birmingham like a lot of accents in the non-rhotic means you don't pronounce the 'R' if it comes after a vowel. So for example the word 'first', call a schwa. nothing going on in your mouth it's an is open. It's an open sound: It's not 'first'. It's not 'first', alright? When you get words that end Instead of going 'uh' we actually release sound. Like you would say apple. Mother, And there's one more thing you need to know about the letter 'r'. in a Birmingham accent, alright? If an 'r' is followed by a vowel, so a lot of the time people from Birmingham give it a bit of a tap. Now this might British Isles, but I promise you I'm I wouldn't say roll your 'r's on every It wavers between being 'rrr' and just a tap. For example, listen to that! For example. I don't really say you're proper Brummie: So these 'r's need to have a bit of a tap and the way we do a tap is our tongue, the tip of our tongue taps on what we call the alveol- on what we call the alveolar- it's very hard to say. The alveolar ridge, alright? So, tip of your tongue that's your alveolar. So your teeth are there, and that bit of skin, above your teeth, that's the alveolar up there, alright? So, alright. saying 'd'. Alright. Okay so we've got that little bit of a &quot;Alright boys, you're all here.&quot; You're all here. It's not 'you're. all. here.&quot; because we do link our words quite a bit, alright? You're all here. It's not you're. all. here. that tapped 'r', you're all here. Sorry. &quot;Do anything to embarrass her,&quot; To embarrass her. Notice it's not a proper embarrass it's Embarrass. It's like a little... It's like you're saying 'embaddess.&quot; Last example: &quot;Your cousins, your horses,&quot; And that example leads me very well onto my next consonant which is 'H'. And very often in Birmingham we drop So, notice in, 'your horses,&quot; your horses. an 'O'. Okay final consonant the letter 't'. You'll notice that 't's in the birmingham accent so for example if I said the words to you: Put. You'll notice that the 't' is quite It's like the the the teeth don't quite But. Bet. You know we actually make the rather than closing our teeth together So, but, pet, bit, bit. And I'm tapping the alveolar ridge. It's kind of unvoiced, alright? Bit. the word, okay? &quot;Similar to the one described in that report,&quot; In that report. It's like a whisper at the end of the Now let's talk about the tone, alright? The tone. Now in Birmingham we do tend to go down at the end of our words quite a bit. So in Birmingham do end on a down, alright? Okay I think I've taught you all I know so, we're gonna do a practice sentence, alright? Let's see how you do. This place is now under new management. By order of the Peaky Blinders. This, remember our 'Ih' sound when we've got an 'I', This place. Place. Remember, place. new management, alright? Pretty much the same. Under new management. By order of, see how we link those words: order of. Order of. With the little tapped. By order of the Peaky Blinders. Have a go at practicing alright. Thank you very much for if you enjoyed this video then press says subscribe and I'll be back soon Not me obviously it'll be the runs this Youtube channel. But it's and just remember there are lots of and Birmingham is only one of them. But extends far beyond the Peaky Blinders. city. Tata! (Take a shot for how many times I say 'alright' in this video.&quot;