It's a bitumen snake in the heart of nature, More than 2000 meters high. It's called the Sky Highway. The Y Axis Expressway runs through Sichuan Province. Between Xinjiang and Yaan, It took a colossal five-year project. Over the miles, 270 bridges span valleys and streams and 25 tunnels perforate the mountain. Breathtaking landscapes and especially difficult passes. Which truckers must overcome to deliver their cargo. Here are the main missions of the day. YoushiGang, the chief of the highway brigade briefs, His team like every morning at 2400 meters altitude. According to forecasts, It will probably snow today. During the patrols, We'll have to check the temperature of the pavement. If a truck is in difficulty in the ascent, Of course, you will have to help him. Liu has about twenty men under his command. These traffic cops are the guardian angels of this new tea route. Officer Liu has been stationed here for three years, And this mountain embraced by the highway won her over. From this angle, the road is truly magnificent. Look, there are three levels of highway with an elevation of 400m in just 11km. The architects have done an extraordinary feat. This is the most beautiful road I have worked on. When there is fog, it feels like being in the heart of the clouds. That's why we call this road the highway of the sky. The great pride of Officer Liu and the whole region. There she is. We arrive on the famous bridge ****. It is unique in China because of its structure, But also because of where it is located. Looks like a roller coaster and fairground attractions. It is a two kilometer long metal viaduct. The geology of the place prevented a concrete construction. It was necessary to mount hollow steel tubes to reduce the weight of the structure. 800 people were mobilized for 3 years at a height of 110m. The Genrizeu bridge is now admired by all who use it, Like Officer Liu. I am very proud of this bridge. And besides, you realize, This building is in my area. I go over it every day. It's as if he were a co-worker. Thousands of trucks drive here every day. Liu and his team are in charge of the highest part of this sky highway. Also the most dangerous. The elevation, More than 7% and the length of the ascent exhausts the machines and the drivers. Thulin ventures here twice a week. It carries fruits and vegetables. Direction Chengdu, The capital of the province, 600 kilometers northeast Jie. The trip took me about ten hours minimum before the highway, But now I can do it in 8 hours. For us truckers, It saves us a lot of time. But that day, Thulin is worried. He begins his ascent which will take him to almost 2500m altitude. And the weather is getting worse. It's starting to snow there. Leaving this morning, I never thought it was going to snow. The weather is abnormal this year. In general, it does not snow any more at this period. Look, they're everywhere. We can barely drive. He must soon pass the famous metal bridge 110m high. Of course I'm afraid of slipping. To put it bluntly, under these conditions, I often think of my two young children. But we have to drive, even with this weather. For hours, Thulin faces bad weather and fatigue. The snow considerably slows down his journey. He can't continue and has to stop for the night. We're going to have a little drink, right? Me, I would take white alcohol. This unexpected dinner is an opportunity to meet up with a colleague, And taste the local specialty, Sichuan hot pot. Vegetables, offal, pork meatballs, All in a beef broth. Good evening gentlemen, I bring you the condiments. Turnip, coriander, garlic and chives. Thanks thanks. Do you want hot pepper? No, you can pass me the ladle. What am I hungry for? That's good, there's a lot of meat. Do you like meatballs? We truck drivers almost spend our lives in the cabin. It's rare to have moments of relaxation like that. When you're stuck on the road because of bad weather like today, A good meal with friends is really appreciated. A rare moment of conviviality for those who spend the week alone in their truck, Far from his wife and two sons. A solitary and not always comfortable life. For EUR550 per month. The average salary in China. I'm exhausted. I won't be sleeping long. The next morning, Thulin has been back on the road for 2 hours already. The sun now illuminates his path. A new challenge awaits the driver. A very long descent. But first, a mandatory stop. And Agent Liu is keeping watch. At this toll, each truck is weighed. The risk, Is that an overloaded vehicle can no longer brake, And that could have dramatic consequences. Come on. From here, the vehicles will descend for 51 km. Their weight is displayed on this screen. And then sometimes, I take the opportunity to also search for hazardous materials. I will inspect your cargo. Thulin is already late. Hopefully Officer Liu isn't too fussy. What are you carrying there? Watermelons. Watermelons? It's good. Raise the barrier for this truck. Go for it. The driver embarks on the descent on the mountainside. 80 km/h maximum. Above all, don't take any risks. In fact, the slope is not very steep. And as it lasts for tens of kilometers, I have to be careful that the truck doesn't get carried away by its momentum. You know my truck isn't fully loaded today, But I'm still worried about the brake discs. They must be constantly cooled with liquid. If there is no more water or the pipe is clogged, Then the discs may heat up and cause a fire. 51 kilometers and around ten accidents each year. A formidable descent for the nerves and for the mechanics. I'm going to add some water there. To see the smoke that emerges from its brakes, It was rather time. After the descent, Thulin approaches the final stretch of his course. In the valley this time. Kilometers, in a masterful setting. It is an artificial lake with a dam downstream. You see, the water level is not very high at the moment. Otherwise, it would be even more beautiful. This is really the part of the road that I find the prettiest. What I like about this highway, Is that at each bend, I discover a new landscape. After delivering, Thulin will leave the next day with a new shipment. The famous highway of the sky, continues it, its progression. To the west and Tibet this time. In the footsteps of the old tea route. Nothing stops this giant of concrete and bitumen. Not even the mountain, regularly gutted. Soon, a gigantic new work will see the light of day here. To make it easier for truckers like Thulin to travel. A work where the workers are currently playing tightrope walkers at 120 m high. This is the Dadou Roue bridge. Below, in the village of Shing Shopping, The elders have a little trouble believing their eyes. Linh has lived here for 40 years. His house is located in a way at the crossroads of history. At the time, The Tea Route porters passed right here, in front of my house. If we follow the path. We can still see their traces. You can still see the imprints of the canes of the carriers on the stones. They are over there, at the foot of the highway. In some months, The future of the region and of Mrs. Linh will be played rather by looking up, this time, With an aerial ballet of heavyweights. While waiting for the highway to be completed, Drivers must be satisfied with the national. As the road rises towards Tibet, the trucks zigzag. In this natural setting. At the top the ****, 4300 meters. Almost the altitude of Mont Blanc crossed by the 38 tons. But China is always thinking bigger and stronger. And maybe one day the highway of heaven will come all the way here. Colonizing the immense plains and disrupting the life of the yaks, And the inhabitants of this preserved region.