In the centre of the arid and ancient miles away from the sea, our time travelling in Earth's history; as they arrived the rain in what is now Canada, epoch-ending volcanic made this downpour inevitable. It would never rain that wouldn't abate for over one million on Earth. A rain that allowed the dinosaurs to What's all the more surprising to me, and to is that the kind of event that caused this rain extinction event the world has ever known. the butterfly effect to its limits, imagine: tornado 1000 miles away, what does an eruption I'm Alex McColgan and you are watching an extinction-level event 230 million years and accelerated the evolution of the dinosaurs; how burning fossil fuels contributed to climate BODY the rain? Pangaea was the largest continent a record not likely to ever be beaten, given it Its huge size meant that the centre was far received very little rain, favouring the evolution During this dry period around 300 million years emerged that are still important today, including: this period the diapsids also exploded, a as... archosaurs. Now you may not know that name, crocodiles, birds and - yes! - eventually If you've seen our previous episodes it was a tumultuous and unforgiving right and centre. And above and below for that better grab the attention of Hollywood, it's always been. And it's here that we will find We live on a vanishingly thin crust was represented by the entire Lord of the all of the known life in the entire universe Beneath, hot plumes rise up from the core, up against the thin crust. These huge plumes completely ignoring continental fault lines, concentrated (like the Pacific ring of fire). for over one million years in what are these eruptions that are linked to the most history and are the probable cause of in history "The Great Dying". Where ocean Despite life's ability to evolve, it is estimated that have ever lived on earth have gone extinct. of a Mt. Everest sized asteroid travelling though slower and far less dramatic, can cause Evidence of flood volcanism is The eruptions of these flood basalts result in like the Siberian traps in Northern Russia, Wrangellian Large Igneous Province (LIP) across basalt rock kilometres deep making them over When we date these flood basalts, we see that events. There is one though that doesn't. That so-called Carnian Pluvial Episode or "That time that volcanic activity in the Wrangellian transformation of an arid desert into an oasis So what separated Wrangellia's eruption from the for you - size does matter. Although this was an species wiped out during the CPE - (Labelled eruption was just the right size to So the reason that the overall biodiversity was was matched by the emergence of exciting world -- what the aliens witnessed was less period. So how can a slow eruption affect To understand how this transformational is to understand something that we are Specifically the release and production of Eruptions like these directly release carbon but they can trigger its release from other only humans had used -- huge reservoirs of the Fire Triangle from school or not, (Fuel, that introducing 1600oC magma to the base of Burning these crude coal beds would have and greenhouse gases, both important for Just as we are seeing today, the increasing of the sun's energy, and that energy go? Earth's systems work to distribute absorb this extra energy is... the water The sun's energy is absorbed by the the surface. Once in the atmosphere, the before precipitating onto land and returning energy that is trapped by greenhouse gases, In these flood basalt eruptions we interplay of three major cycles (the The formation of the Wrangellian Large Igneous the alien's ship detected atmospheric they are today -- increasing temperatures by greatly increasing evaporation and cloud able to deliver rain further and further period the Earth became warmer and more Species that had adapted to environment or niche before the rain fronts. During this turnover period in Earth's seemingly destroyed as quickly as new ones Not only that, but species had to cope with a released by the Wrangellian eruption; hydrogen with it. This egg smelling gas reacted with oxygen form is more well known as acid rain. As the rain acidified water, which only further contributed to Interestingly, a large amount of amber can be amber is a protective mechanism for suggesting that plant life came under The incredible volume of rain across the surface runoff. Accelerating across slightly acidic flows eroded the land as it went. Some of this acidic water seeped into and eroded The aliens watched as rocks were literally elaborate new cave systems were formed, from carboniferous limestone (Tyherington in habitats for life to exploit. Eventually the and minerals into the ocean, further nudging The ocean species were particularly hard they lacked oxygen) and highly acidified, ecosystems that inhabit those areas. crinoids and green algae suffered particularly as did reef builders. While dinoflagellates, a On their ship, the aliens moaned in disbelief miserable weather. But back on land one of braving the elements and roaming the Earth., some it was an outlier prior to the Carnian and mammals were far more numerous. Its home was defined by its dense jungle in what is environment, which the Herrerasaurus was well it won the geological lottery as its habitat the continent, Herrerasaurus was greeted with the extinction of herbivores and other for the Herrerasaurus and similar dinosaurs. of habitat available for these wandering species Further away in the Dolomites the aliens saw herds and their wandering footsteps have been recorded spanning the Carnian Pluvial Episode, dinosaurs footprints to ecological dominance, making remarkable takeover that agrees with other records Notably the Central European Formation The 2 million year period spanning the Carnian forever changing the trajectory of life on Earth its surface. The mega-monsoonal climate featured through the landscape, making the biblical storm more like a typical British summer in comparison. Wrangellian eruption slowed, the emission of it is likely that levels of carbon dioxide fell Pangaea, some of which would again become buried use today, continuing the carbon cycle. Now that "If a butterfly flapping its wings can cause a 100 times larger than a super volcano cause?!" - aliens left having witnessed the origin of Some 180 million years after the extinction another would strike, wiping them from the and the Earth taketh away. From that point, it including us humans. A remarkable reminder both whim. But that at each time of asking, as as life evolves it gets better and better suited of evolution isn't just tied to life though the was in leather pouches then in the mid 1600s into the buold we often see today but with the that wallets are adapting even further today's on making making wallets and other products for wasn't really comfortable in my jeans so I really ejector feature tickles the engineering part of my you want Ekster's card holder Pro is also evolving a more ergonomic design carries more cards and can Android and the global Apple find my network it all in all it's a really stylish wallet that should give it a look and by using my code astrum off select extra products or follow my link offering thanks for watching I was kind comments and messages youve sent me and patreon like I said in the replies to your team is so grateful to have such an amazing party yet we're still on our long-term thousand in the pin comment to become a part of that the whole video ad free see your name in team meanwhile click the link to this playlist