One of the reasons I'm proud to be one. History was a constant echo for In the startup community, there is a I didn't know that. Seriously, is there? If MacArthur had used nuclear weapons then he might well have actually won that war, significantly that nuclear weapons would have been between two sets of drones, and humans won't be in far faster than the human mind can work today. Roberts, who is most recently the author of to Ukraine." And this book is like Churchill's World War, in that one of the principal actors General David Petraeus, who commanded the of your coauthors. And speaking of Churchill, magnificent biographies of Churchill, book about World War II. But first, let's begin Thank you very much indeed, Dwarkesh. So my first question is this: when we look at we got unlucky many times in a row. World War I, the Maoist Revolution in China--all those From reading historians about those topics, factors a few years back, any one of them could tens of millions of people died. When we look at write about in these books, it seems like we got crisis doesn't go nuclear. We have all these proxy war. China and India liberalize, and communism luck in these two different parts of the century? much as easy as that. You have all these wars that so as a result, you have an umbrella under which wars that break out--about 140 wars--they have to of the existence of nuclear weapons. thing before World War I, and in fact, where we have all this heavy artillery, we have they still went to war. So how much does nuclear Well, you're right that the First World War did but the knowledge that the nuclear bomb could has always managed to make wars limited. Post could kill in a single moment would be as a result nuclear bomb, frankly. So it's apples and pears. you write about all these conflicts that have they're counterinsurgencies or civil wars. say that they're the legitimate force fighting aggressors when both sides are getting foreign the US has been bad at the propaganda here, they're the legitimate forces fighting for their Yes, that's a very good point. I think in both local inhabitants in a way that the United But whether they represented the majority of the a completely different issue. So it's much more a powers who are able to establish dominance and the world. And that's what both of them were legitimacy in the kind of Jeffersonian democracy they are the people that are wielding power of course, in North Vietnam, you have to deal with But it's interesting that South Vietnam or to have that same sort of legitimacy even though they were still local governments. obviously, they're both immensely inefficient I don't think that detracts from the fact forces that were rising up against them. opportunity for you to discuss leadership that you discuss in the book. very strongly, and it's interesting you should get that very powerfully as well, is that the that controls the cities or has the largest amount the Chinese Civil War, let's look at that for a outset of that war, had all the major cities, and they also had all the advanced weaponry that Japanese surrender in 1945. Yet they still lost have very impressive strategic leadership. And good plans, often had warlords below him that in war after war is that the thing that matters by which we mean having a leader at the top, decision-maker. And it's usually best when there's represents the military and they get along, and They need to then be able to communicate that to wider country. They need to be able to implement need, as the fourth of the levels, to continue to and to the way in which the war develops. Because The enemy always has a say, and then to refine it are able to do that are very often victorious, many more disadvantages than their enemy. opportunity to start talking about Iraq and speak to like nobody else. I found it really happened in those two countries, especially wasn't something we had to just immediately with the weapons of mass destruction than 9/11. Of course, that's the ultimate reason that this and the 13 years in between. It wasn't just WMD. enough time to have a plan of what to do. And that after the regime has been changed, you ensure security and stability in the country. And intelligent people like David Petraeus there who was an invasion of these countries without a Well, he wasn't working on it. He was working on And the people who were working on it were a failing to work out what to do once you had got to to get rid of the Ba'ath Party, which essentially was all very well getting rid of Saddam's sons but when you do that and also, essentially, send to feed their families and allow them to keep And sure enough, disaster happened. But that the spear who did an extremely good job, who Now, speaking of strategic leadership, why in Iraq and Afghanistan who had that level of where in the book General Petraeus discusses And of course, Ghani leaves Afghanistan when And Karzai, of course, also in Afghanistan. understandably in our book, because they are not is. I think partly it's down to the sectarian and however good a leader is, he doesn't automatically in the same country. The thing about Zelensky was speaking for the huge majority of the country, and however good they are. And I'm not saying for let alone the last chap who gets into his of money and hightails it out of there. By who shows all of those four qualities of who decided he was going to stay in Kyiv, fight he wasn't going to let any military-age male idea was, "I need ammunition, not a ride." idea in Ukraine? What is the ceasefire, or think would be plausible for both sides to accept? one properly yet. Zelensky has, which is the allow 18% to 19% of our country to forever be to throw them out. And when David and I visited huge level of national unity over that big idea. subscribe to it, but they're sort of paid to--it's the street and everybody that we spoke to. They didn't know how long it was going to take, they to be shed, but they all believed that this would be victorious, even if you, the Americans, Right, but what is the answer to the Is that the same as the Ukrainian goal? seems to be to wait until other countries, such to give much more of the same kind of weaponry, advanced weaponry. You saw this with anti-tank then long-range artillery. Now, you've been giving but you've hung back a bit with fighter aircraft where you wait until the Russians don't it would have been much better, I think, to have essentially, and the tanks that they really and come out wholeheartedly for them. Now, billion is a very significant amount of money, more now. But still, the Russians are in control what the Ukrainians were expecting, hundreds of of minefields down in the south there. And so I'm wars like this before. This is one of the things example, where you just have to thrash it out. second, but it does seem weird that we're classic Clausewitz to focus your effort on doling out this equipment, why not just have a successful counteroffensive. political will in the United States to you have a nominal majority in both houses, but what's going on there, you don't have the sense these poor Ukrainians are fighting and dying. helpful and useful. But as I say, the key point even if you didn't give them the stuff because dictating to them what their national destiny is. you wrote about this in your book was really decided to use a nuclear bomb in Korea, had agreed have against nuclear weapons--against tactical first place. So, the Soviets would have used it and Thatcher would have used it in the Falklands. wiped out the Falklands, and we were trying to win Of course, if MacArthur had used nuclear weapons then yes, he might well have actually won that so significantly that nuclear weapons would have although there's lots of saber rattling by Lavrov I mean, yes, there might be a catastrophic but it's very unlikely for Putin actually to use of course, because the Chinese don't want him to. the 1950s, so on, then yeah, he might well do it. back in history, to give credit at decisions Truman just decided to lose Korea rather than, at than to create a taboo against nuclear weapons. actually, to give him his due. The British Prime about this talk, MacArthur's talk about using credit as well. And also actually, Truman needs because MacArthur did have some, I mean, he island hopping policy in the Second World Wars example of the general who becomes too powerful, himself, who got the Chinese involvement in the essentially, and had to be sacked. how overwhelmingly popular he was. And I remember MacArthur came to Congress to speak after he somebody said, this is the closest thing, if he could have just said, we're going to storm the Well, having seen what happened it's obviously not completely impossible. have those conflicts, those counterinsurgency for a war with a peer competitor like China? wars. It's interesting, of course, China hasn't really, and since the 1960s against India. So If Ukraine were ever to be allowed into NATO, for border of NATO. It would be a huge addition. So no amount of training that is the same as actual I was just thinking about that. Good question. we're seeing today in Gaza is a classic example of and painful and bloody it's going to be, it is that has got the nuclear bomb alone of all the not prepared even to threaten the use of it. it's not doing what Lavrov and Putin are which does exist. So much of what is happening And Tehran doesn't have the bomb and Israel Yeah, and that's a really interesting you could have had Israel nuke the Egyptian die if you don't use it or if you lose the war. that this one at the moment isn't. Now, to happen within Israel, with the West Bank, It's not impossible that this could turn into an the nuclear bomb hasn't done Israel any favors. Is deterrence dead? So, speaking of Israel, this attack. And as far as I know, there's doing this or funding Hezbollah, of course. No, because it's working very well in Southeast who are so irrational and illogical that they way that the Israelis might soon be trying to if you believe that God has given you the right to be deterred. In the same way that a much more where he wakes up every morning and thinks, right, looks to the world situation, to the might of his neighbors, all but North Korea, of which hate day to do it. And that is what deterrence deterrence, but it's immensely cheap at the same So, yeah, this is one of the points you make deterrence is seldom wasted. But deterrence also the question of whether America would actually for the Chinese to believe that America would people, have a kinetic war with China over an sense? Is that deterrence credible for Chinese? been called strategic ambiguity in the American actor wants to have to deal with. An America which would have maybe act irrationally over Taiwan, or got ambitions to stand up to China and feels that are obviously not intended deliberately to provoke ambiguous enough that China doesn't want to States military budget is so enormous, if it was to send the wrong messages, taking what America's done in Ukraine. And Xi recognizes hard and so far hasn't lost. And so, without a American servicemen involved, which they would be would be much, much more likely to go all in. Taiwan and puts the onus on America to launch I wonder if then put in those terms, an American Chinese wouldn't expect an American president Well, they've obviously war gamed this a that your remark about 20 million people is remember that Taiwan has 80% of the semiconductor industry. Lots of good things are being done to it would be catastrophic for China to be able And obviously the Biden administration knows that. some questions about Churchill and World War II. point because speaking of rational leaders, I'm of how much of his thinking is more emotive, less try to backtest how I would have reacted, given I have to admit I like to think in terms of have said, what's the expected value of fighting happen if he just didn't? Looks like probably, with appeasement. And I wonder if this is general that illustrates a weakness in the about geopolitics compared to Churchill's I don't really agree with you. I think, with yes, he was emotional and principled but also made between the Sudeten crisis, which ended in a year later in September 1939, was so huge, tanks and so on. And also it was helped so much Czechoslovakia and churning out tanks for Germany, stopped Germany invading Czechoslovakia. So what great rhetorician and so on, but he was also regard to the balance of power, recognizing that year later than it had been at the time of Munich. read, and not only read but written a curious how concretely that history informed his of tactics and geography, where you see how old at the level of grand strategy? Was it at the that understanding of history help him? I'm proud to be a historian is that Churchill 1930s when he was out of office, was to write John Churchill, Duke of Marlborough, it's almost and he's actually writing about his own ancestor many things to do with tactics and strategy, of how to deal with domestic political opinion and then only five years after the publication of world war himself. History was a constant echo for in some 10% of his speeches in the Second World history. He was basically telling the British look back at Napoleonic Wars, we have been in this great perils before, Elizabeth I and the Spanish and been victorious. So, yes, he recognized the and he bent it to his overall overarching theme So speaking of this, if we think of Churchill I was just planning on asking you, but you are in guess, basically everything that's happened in the ever consider getting more involved with politics? of Lords from Monday to Wednesday, lunchtime I can't see how much more involved in politics chambers of our parliament. If you want Let me restate the question. Would you consider position in the UK, given how successful Well, we've just mentioned one past historian are an awful lot of other ones who haven't. No, myself in politics in the UK. I've got to get is the reason I was put on Earth, really. recent book, there's this interesting thing where are kicked out of office after they win their '46. He led the French against the Nazis. And then George H. W. Bush possibly has the most successful of Germany, the fall of the Soviet bloc without David Lloyd George is the other classic example. in the First World War. He was out by 1922. countries keen to kick out the people who Because we recognize that the skills you need ones you need in war. And what the Labor this sort of New Jerusalem of socialism and of England and free stuff, essentially national Attlee. But although much of that actually was they recognized that the Conservatives didn't the socialists did. So it's completely rational, you've got a choice of leaders to go for the one well the person who led you through the war did. Britain doesn't seem like the rational choice Well, it did after six years of grueling sort of more healthy and better life, and they do that for them. It took us half a century Now let's talk about future wars, you and General Petraeus survey. In your balance of power has shifted more towards We're seeing that, aren't we? Or we will be about it was one in three. You needed three attackers the Second World War. But frankly, with with booby traps, certainly with all these for sniper fire as well, which has come on leaps need certainly more than three to one in offense. writing, three to one was a perfectly reasonable Oh, interesting. This just preempted and I guess which is it's remarkable to me that the three has stayed consistent for, I guess, the answer is weird that for hundreds of years, with all these one that people use, that technicians still use. into our lifetimes. But they'd be mad to, today, in built-up areas in the kind of situation which fewer now than there were, to be frank, but for example, the Battle of Monte Cassino, where actually the rubble was easier for the Germans than if the actual building had been left that you do better if you don't blast the which you mentioned earlier. And then there's, called Rattenkrieg, which is essentially &quot;rats' sewers. It's hand-to-hand stuff. It's extremely be fought for, sometimes down with bayonets. So full of high casualty rates, might well be the That's a scary comparison. didn't think of it that way, but that's wow. of one of Winston Churchill's speeches with his is that London fought street by street could hopes that doesn't happen, obviously, to the IDF, Actually, while we're on the subject, I have a few you before we return to future wars. You have my favorite book about World War II, The Storm of the claim that were it not for the ideologically could have won World War II, and then you detail back and look at after America joins the war, even if they didn't make these mistakes, is there has, like, twice the GNP and is outproducing the that you could have really stood up to that? There wouldn't have been a war if he hadn't war against the country that attacked you, Japan. he believed that Jews and blacks dominated by the way, is completely absurd. When one looks very few Jews or blacks, but nonetheless, it wasn't always their highest attribute. And and wouldn't be able to fight very well, which fought very well indeed in the First World War. bunker in 1940 in Berlin that if the Americans actually put any troops into the western theater by November 1942, you had a quarter of a million of ideology. You see it also, of course, six invades Russia in the belief that the Slavic master race. And as Goebbels said to him, "We'll will come crashing down," talking about the of course. And the Russians, fighting on fighting a foreign adventure like in Poland or good soldiers. So he got that wrong. Again and strategic best interests of the German Reich. mistakes Hitler made, obviously, from liquidating and well-educated people to the timing of the first place. To the timing of launching if he hadn't declared war on America, the were able to drive back the Germans would still grinder where the overwhelming majority of German then he wouldn't have Operation Barbarossa at all. He would have invaded Russia and been caught in on the United States, it's very difficult able to have declared war on him, especially if which by that stage had, by early 1942, conquered undertaking. But you're absolutely right about year 1944, when the British produced 28,000 produced 40,000 each, the United States produced of the rest of the world put together. They were It was just a truly extraordinary thing in terms to give them the final say over who commanded happen once they landed in France. But it also in the Second World War as well. And you're Germans killed in conflict, I don't mean bombed four of them died on the Eastern Front. ideology, why weren't the Soviets as misled by Because Communist ideology hadn't affected actual Under Stalin, there was no sort of dictatorship of any equality. He was obviously a totalitarian Hitlerian way of fighting the war was not the most Barbarossa, after which he had some kind of a mini learned about it, how the one man he trusted in that's a difficult moment to take. But then what as Konev and Zhukov and Rokossovsky and others, before, and listens to them and takes their advice relationship between Churchill, Roosevelt, Alan in my book, Masters and Commanders, is a big sort way of coming to military decisions. And that's completely contrasted from what's going on in the which is actually the Fuhrer listening for hours better than he did because they actually went as officers in the First World War rather than Guderian and Manstein and so on, these people right at the end of the meeting, Hitler would sum he'd originally said right at the beginning by everybody at the Fuhrer conferences because said. And it's very clear that they would Hitler's way was the way that the Wehrmacht went. the points you discussed in Masters and which democracies versus dictatorships are obviously the perfect example to evaluate this. democracy, of course, and it was on the winning ...you have the Allied, the Western democracies have it in The Storm of War, and that obviously means never happens. You have to come to a consensus in your Napoleon biography, you have this singular even his advisors often are like, well, you Russia they were right. But yeah, maybe you can consensus versus strategy by a singular mind. Napoleon in 1812 is that he wasn't warned by his partly because he and they thought that this was going to go about 50 miles into Russian territory battle and were defeated. And he had absolutely no That would have seemed, as he was crossing the drawn in more and more into the Russian heartland at Borodino. And then he went on and took Moscow. to Smolensk. It was, in fact, more time than he are other reasons, which I go into in the book, catastrophe it did, but it wasn't actually yes, Napoleon is the classic example of like Alexander the Great or Julius Caesar, has the of course, he does lose. And after 1812 you which force him to abdicate. Then he comes back, as well. So that is in contrast to the much more and Blucher and so on interacted with one is absolutely right about democracies being better and totalitarian ones are authoritarian as well, the elements of surprise. Very often, one looks at Harbor, Barbarossa that you mentioned earlier, There's a great line of the Chinese sneaking 160,000 of them in the dead of night. I mean, there's that wonderful line of Paul Wolfowitz's, so often in history, that the only surprising And that is right. Democracies can do surprise rule is when Israel did successfully carry out of that conflict. But otherwise, democracies tend because what it does do is light a fire under the of course, being Pearl Harbor, and it makes them to exact revenge. And by the way, what Hamas that. Of course, that's a surprise attack which but which will have lit a fire under Israel This is actually an excellent opportunity to ask which you discuss in your newest book, Conflict. reconnaissance, drones, and all this cyber now with these new technologies, are large-scale That's a very good question. I'm tempted to say spotted on the battlefield today. Obviously, the than a complete nation-on-nation kind of attack it is much more difficult to hide troops today change, of course, the psychology of what happens But, yeah, in the 10th chapter, the last chapter look at areas like cyber and space, but also in the future, the war will be fought between the loop. They'll be on the loop. They'll have the loop because decision-making has to take If a human is involved and at the controls of to be fought between two sets of machines and of speed. But also machines have no conscience. feel remorse or regret or pity. It's going to Yeah, and that has all kinds of interesting in the book, that the electromagnetic spectrum you can jam the electronics and the communications you have these examples famously, like, let's crashes because an algorithm malfunctions, if the equivalent of, that leads to a world war. tech entrepreneurs are now having a much bigger have Elon Musk providing Starlink services the service to help with the surprise attack, the launching in Crimea. Now, how will the ability of will get involved in lending their technology to strategy? Will they be a force for peace or the government really wants your technology, I don't think they'll do that except for in actually there's a very wide and I think overall play here. And Starlink, yes, it's true that Mr. but overall Starlink has been invaluable in proper internet war. People with iPhones on the also map references which can prove extremely the reasons that Kiev didn't fall in the opening artillery was being given accurate information on was a new kind of warfare which the Russians took because they didn't have their own people on the was 100% opposed to the Russian invasion in essentially had just a multitude of information So that's one aspect of modernity. The use they've been put to by the Ukrainians. But has been really extraordinarily impressive. not just obviously in the United States, came out move the dial. And so I think with companies like advances and the cutting edge still being with this is a good thing for the west. And that some Musk, the most important private individuals, Teesen and Krupp back before the First World War. new world. It could actually be an extremely Yep. Speaking of tech entrepreneurs your biography of Napoleon. So I'm but living in there is in the startup community, I didn't know that. Seriously? Is there? the person of Napoleon, I think startup founders You have somebody who is a young upstart, much more efficient than the bureaucracies and intellectually curious, an autodidact. You can I love that. That's exactly what he was, yes, new thing. He flung himself into ideas for could be useful for agricultural development. He and better and cheaper. He was a real go-getter components and so on. This was somebody who but very much for inventors and entrepreneurs and France outstrip Britain, essentially, which had a So there was a very strong sort of nationalist he was made a fellow of the French Academy on the was the First Consul of France. He used to attend thing. If there was going to be a meeting on, I there would be the First Consul taking notes. might like Napoleon, and I'm thrilled Yeah, no, I think you'd be Also, it's true that megalomaniacs also love massive Venn diagram shaded area between tech necessarily mean that liking Napoleon doesn't great tech entrepreneur, shall we say. it's really remarkable. In your Churchill he saw the influence of tanks and planes and His best friend was the Oxford professor for Cherwell. When it comes to the people he had He said that scientists should be on tap but not have a world run by scientists, but he definitely early as the mid-1920s, so a good 20 years before could be destroyed by a nuclear bomb the size frankly. He, of course, was fascinated by especially at the very beginning of the Second to mean that their bombers were sent off target get into the real nitty-gritty of all that, and of the Ultra machine that broke the Enigma code. In interested in learning and understanding It's very easy to think of Churchill this sort of tubby Tory with his cigars and his of these sorts of very much set in the past he was somebody who was obsessed with the future. way you describe the way he would micromanage energy and efficiency. It reads honestly like an the engines on his Raptors at the same time what you think a person like Napoleon does today become an Elon Musk or does he do something else? goes to Silicon Valley and sets up his own something useful to advance mankind with. That's if he has anything like the same acquisitive companies around him in the way that Napoleon invade those countries, what he would do, for and he entered Milan, the first thing he did the scientists, the chemists, and so on, together. and would talk to them about their thing. which frankly the Bourbons had not been for the difficult to think of more than one or two genuine why he became popular amongst the middle class and one of the other things he would do was go into ghetto and free the Jews and give them civil and tremendously forward-thinking for that day and age Obviously, the biography of Napoleon must end biographies of great people I read. It is often keep making these double or nothing gambles that some point, your luck runs out. That's obviously wonder if this is also a pattern you notice in the having his reputation and fortune wasted away one such thing. But what is your reaction to that? of hugely successful people, needless to say. I of lots of other people, but we just don't know But one does tend to get stuck in one's ways. tricks. You can't necessarily reinvent yourself I would say in Napoleon's defense, of course, which is the key moment, after that lots and lots of good things happen. But the key the Russians twice before. He was invading with Paris at that time. He knew that the Russian army want to go too far into Russia, which of course, the campaign. But it wasn't an insane hubristic What was hubristic, mad, and insane was to try to the entirety of Europe, and therefore attempting completely rife, and to stop every other country that belief that protectionism could somehow thing. And that's what led him into the Peninsula Wow. Actually, if you have somebody like Napoleon, nobody else is succeeding or could anticipate and he accomplishes it. Obviously, he has knowing that he has been able to do things that has to recognize his limits. And this is not but just in general. How does somebody who is at back to mediocrity when making judgments about It's always a question of choosing the right areas that he didn't know much about, like legal actually it was his legal experts who drew it up in areas he wasn't particularly interested be advised upon. He was the dictator, he had at choosing advisors, quite regardless of their There's a man called Cambaceres, and he was gay. This was something that was pretty and at a time when, of course, that was against he was so good at his job that he kept him on as true believer in meritocracy in that. Some of his from the working classes and in some cases below, coopers and domestic servants, and so on. And the things he always wanted in his generals, but and they became marshals. And all the marshals, two of them became kings. To be the son of a 19th century was a truly extraordinary thing certainly your rank and status in life was very One thing I found really interesting in your remembering correctly, both of them wrote a novel or rather, a character saves their country in remember the details, but I thought, wow, both of What explains this? Yes, it's probably a terrible that I did the same thing when I was in my country and married a fair maiden. Gosh, I don't like Napoleon, but yes, they're both great reads. the book you're referring to by Napoleon, but the where you see lots of rolling Churchillian And you're right, both of them are very, very the hero, doesn't he save the country, but then Napoleon figure die heroically in battle after saving going on in both of those youthful novels. I want to ask you about how is it possible you're I knew you were in the House of Lords, but I just top of that, you're writing these books that the best biographies of these people, who have And you've written 20 books. How are you Because I start work at 04:00 A.M every day. wants to bother you or irritate you. And so every single day for about half an hour in the Cambridge 40 years ago. And so, I've trained again. It means that you get two days' worth everybody's body clock is completely young enough to start, and as I say, you can really squeeze more time out of the Yeah, I'm 23, so this might be the Today is the day. Make sure after lunch to bed, and you will find that you've So why is biography, which is a genre you've of course, books that have become overwhelmingly to understand an era or to understand Because it focuses the mind. It concentrates that person. You either love him or hate him writing about women. It's the great man and woman that because I think that although there are the decline of magic and the rise of science, about as the result of the deliberate choices And you can't look at something like the invasion or Churchill's decision to fight on and not make the individual does play an absolutely central I think it is intellectually justified to write Marxists don't. They think that biography is far what are we but our decisions? Man is spirit, a reasonable way for me to spend my time. place to close this conversation. This was I highly recommend it. It was a really thorough insights from not only one of the best historians two most recent campaigns that involved conflict The Evolution of Warfare from 1945 to bookstores everywhere. Andrew, thank you so much. Hey, everybody. I hope you enjoyed that episode. just share the podcast, send it to people you group chats, etc. Just blitz the world. Appreciate