This is the 40th the Deutsche Or DDR, the dictatorial as East Germany. It is the last will ever celebrate. But the leader, Erich know that yet. Outside, protesters And just one month later, flood the border dividing By the time of the the DDR had vanished. It's land and people taken state, the BRD or FRG, but has the DDR ever gone away? Remnants of this history in traffic lights, iconic distinctions where the But if you zoom out and signs are not so subtle. The difference in job to vaccination obesity show divided country. And people that grew still feel a gap with It's not just people on the Angela Merkel led When she left office in share her grievances. Growing up in East by the people in the I didn't experience was born in 1990. Just a few months fell in November 89. As I was growing up, When meeting new people, before or after the wall. The only moment of can think of is 2001. To me, these two dates As I get older, I see just 2001 happened That means almost twice there did between the fall of the Twin Towers. I don't know how this feels, but it 33 years also means passed since the fall generation wants to And I want to When it comes to mostly taught about the secret police that But I feel there's the people living it. In this video, I want of the DDR, how it it was to live there. And what is the modern So this video is about that means we'll be the secret police. And to dodge their you need tools to And so East Germans sponsor, Surfshark VPN, their identities online the, the, the internet. I am on the internet, had to use a lot of But with Surfshark, these public hotspots worry about someone But that is not With just the touch of into streaming services your favorite shows in your location. Like, if you live watch The Office. But with Surfshark... You can binge And what I really like doesn't monitor, track you do online. So there's no connectivity You can try Surfshark PRESENTPAST if you If you sign up, you'll the channel, but you Three months for free. And there's also no because there's a 30 day So thank you Surfshark video, and let's get back I had the opportunity Hoyer, who just wrote this very subject. Katja is a visiting College UK. She wrote a book on now one about the DDR. We'll get to Katia let's set the scene. It's 1945, and the Allies the biggest conflict Already before the end have been talking about It must be tamed. So they settle France, Great Britain, Union divide Germany Each of them will After a few years, to two states, the and the Deutsche the Federal Republic of Democratic Republic. The former capital by the Soviet zone, but I went to Berlin to show find this division. And that meant I had to I don't know about you, two states, I was always difference between East Communism versus And that this shapes rest of the history But these two states different starting points. If you look at this map Second World War, You see lost a lot of territory. This means that Germans lived outside They had to leave violently forced to And because of geography, settled in East Germany. So many that a consisted of refugees. All these people need But that is not between East and West. In 1950, West Germany of 51 million. It had the Ruhrgebiet, heartland of Germany. They got financial If you compare this to way smaller industrial A population of just It's a mostly agrarian energy sources except And then they also being liberated by So I am at this Soviet soldiers that died And I think this kind of state East Let me show you. It's really Soviet It's really the Soviets And at the main piece, with a child on his his hand, crushing The Nazis behaved the Eastern Front. Hitler fought this insane against the Soviets. 20 million Soviets had villages exterminated. So when they entered wanted revenge. In Berlin, the Soviets months and grabbed You know this famous of Berlin by the Soviets. It's really some good but also photoshopped Well, let's say he had that he needed to tell the picture the Soviets want On a larger scale, laboratories were packed of the industrial base of and Soviet soldiers r*ped had to survive by striking So this exact memorial the Memorial to R*pists. And next to all big war reparations. Huge sums of money. It's not the best So you have a nation pillaged Who are going of all this rubble? The soviets have one rule. We can't have former nazis Stalin the most logical send back some of the spent the war in russia the nazis beforehand and incredibly loyal sometimes betrayed their to prove to Stalin These people had been purges under Stalin. They were true communists. The Soviets have East Germans have the SED The Social Unity The Soviet state workers and farmers. They show it in the DDR is their worker Look at their logo. You have the hammer, But they're also there Look at the compass. So, now we have a brand good socialist branding. How do they do? Out of the gate, These true communists teacher, so they This doesn't go very well. It leads to big They go so fast with even Stalin was like, just need my money. And he's getting it. For the first year, 60 industrial output of East to the Soviet Union. So instead of and the reparations, wrecked the economy. This is not good rebuilding the country. They are making And when they come there's nothing in the And that gets worse and people get very It's now almost a decade lives just don't seem to This chart shows what's Hundreds of thousands East Germany to And even though the are closed, Berlin Here you can just walk to And this leads to two define East Germany. Crises that will give East always connect to the DDR. The wall and the And the first of these prestige project. These strikes make the but they completely They are naive and what's going on in the I describe a scene this sort of angry mob government building and leader, Walter Ulbricht, and working conditions. And Walter Ulbricht sits Oh, it's beginning to going to disperse, they out there in the rain. You know, he's that point, and so detached These strikes don't They spread across the A million people The situation gets so Soviets have had enough. They step in. And once again, rolling into Berlin. At least 55 Thousands are arrested. This is not the best it leads to one thing to East Germany. After this crisis, get a bit better. The Soviets send help, reforms are cancelled, But the situation is the West, so people And this leads to This one will have a streets of Berlin. By 1961, 3 million Germans And it's the people that This is a huge You have doctors, skilled workers Almost all through This is a nightmare East German leaders. If they don't do no one left in this East So what are they Nothing drastic, right? Let's see what the leaders Ah, well, I guess Berlin is a big place. The streets are packed. Every day thousands of this city on foot, But if you look down see something special. Because you can see crossing a border. This is the border that for nearly 30 years. The Berlin Wall. The wall went It split families And it put the most landmark in a dead zone. To show you how the wall friend Michal to get Unfortunately for me... The drone A previous trip us some trouble. Um, there's a pro tip. Don't land your But Michal got it fixed. I repaired it because So here's me flying time to show you You've probably seen But that's actually part of the wall. When it was finished, the screens, fences, patrol Soldiers that manned shoot people on sight. At least 140 people died at the Wall, But for the leaders of was a great success. Let's look at the graph After they built completely flatlines. And in some way, it calmed down in East Germany. Those that stayed behind something of this state. So how was it to At this point, I think the state was portrayed. We remember the Stasi. We remember the wall. East Germany is a invasion would start. It's part of an evil the archenemy of the West. If we look beyond that for society actually look? Yeah, so Walter Ulbricht is kind of a classic socialist in the up or trying to build up a and therefore leveled out. So the idea is that you top in terms of and so forth, but also and everybody kind a modest society. This classless society from the government. One of the most important I'm at what used to be behind me, you have think of was East Germany, buildings, prefab people that were living They were spacious, they was a lot of community so not that bad. And they're also in West Germany. A family of four 4 percent of their to almost 21 percent And because this is a a lot of social mingling. The architect lives factory worker. There are no gated But this is not the is focusing on. They provide This allows women to workforce in huge numbers. By the end of the of women are in full That's a rate any other country, Education is strong. University is free. A third of the working university, compared to 5 People are literates, they The DDR is a place living standards of It's something that So after the first hard where basic needs are met. Let's be clear, this One party rule, no free spying on all the people. It's not like North Korea. Where even today There are bodies It's very possible to Despite all this, the do have a problem. Because when the the housing, education people want more. They want stuff In the West, they have tape recorders, they In the 70s, the new understands they some of this luxury. And there's one Western more than just a good fit. You have this kind lands, freedom, cowboys, prairie, you know, the symbolic or emblematic of American freedom. And boy, people So you have this have these communist believing in socialism. They want to build with no luxury, right? Well, they understand They're going to Importing the symbol They import 1 million of 16 million. And it created People just freaked out. They ran into the shops. There weren't enough People were buying, They were trying to they actually needed. And, uh, it was chaos. Importing luxury goods like this is showing the You can't just keep extremely expensive housing, the education, also subsidize these And times are changing. You have a new generation experience the war, that is stagnating. There is no innovation. There is no progress. In the 80s, new cars engine from the 60s, do anything about that. Yeah, you can't really, to the newspaper and because it won't. you can't call in well, look, you know, I with this and you know, going to do about it? There's just no way and frustration. And they can also going in the West. I know that the wall, this is a society that's I mean, it's not possible But again, this is There was contact between these different states. Western people went to You have the radio. Kids are listening to And on a political level, leaders of the two blocks Take this phone call Honecker and Kohl. It's about the rockets in West Germany. It's quite a serious deal. But listen how this Just two men casually weather in December. But as calm as this call there is a storm coming. In the 80s, there Not to bring down reform the system. Voices that want The protest won't The situation becomes This is also not The new Soviet openness and reform. He has plenty of He's not gonna crack protesters in countries So when Hungary opens hole in the Iron Curtain. People can suddenly This finally leads to a divided East and West On 3 October 1990, just DDR would celebrate its sees reunification. Unity all in one, here celebrating a thought would come. A day in which Germany Tomorrow they can worry hundreds of billions the So how does the Well, it has many faces. On the one hand, the huge sums in East Germany. Richer East and solidarity surcharge. That basically These taxes are some people today. It leads to investment lines, in bridges. Between 1990 and 3 trillion euros. That's a lot of zeros. At the same time, a lot of In 2005, still 20 didn't have a job. And the social mostly disappear. Found this report by It's all about the after reunification And it's fascinating how still is in some maps. In the East, people are the young people left a job, as you can see And also the number It's a lot bigger And these social long way to explain the parties in the East. Apart from all this something I didn't know. This report talks federal states. So this is not It's not a reunification politically and German state that has taken over everything East Germany And it's clear who People raised in East way of how people Just a few months scandal in Germany. Well, the whole way should be remembered very political issue. This is a story that goes Narratives that I Boiling down 40 years to the wall and To a clear cut two ways of living. Communist versus But there are many in the that identify with For them, hearing a can feel like But it is up to to provide us with In East Germany, I think perception that it's monotone, um, existence for four decades not They liberated the Berlin Wall fell. But talking to Katja was a world behind People were getting achieving things. And those kinds of worth mentioning without idea that these people They managed, despite and to have meaningful lives. And that, to me, speaks to