This is not smoke. And this isn't a smoke stack serves a totally different purpose at a power combustion products high into the air, allowing you already knew that, or at least suspected it. this kind of tower is commonly associated with to create the heat that drives their generators. power plants, called thermal power stations, on how you say it). But once that steam makes it into liquid water. It's kind of frustrating. You and then you spend even more resources to cool it all the electricity it generates gets used up engineers have come up with some pretty like millions of gallons or tens of and do it relatively efficiently. Not all are some really clever reasons for that iconic one in the garage to show you how they work. Power plants could just vent steam they don't do that. For one, it wouldn't be good would affect wildlife and the weather. For two, for a boiler is often carefully treated to avoid It's expensive water, so it doesn't make sense a lot of energy. It's generally less expensive it back into liquid water so it can be reused as I talked a little bit about how power plants video. It's a net positive, of course. But processes required to produce electricity at and that includes cooling. So engineers want to cooler stream of water that already exists, like a of power plants near me that do exactly that. This sends it through condensers, and then releases side of the lake. The slow circulation gives the plant again. But it's not feasible to have a power plant, and there are environmental require careful consideration. So instead, You might be familiar with the various machines You might even be enjoying the comfort of like I mentioned, the simplest way to physical processes do the work, just wait the temperature is usually less than boiling transfer to the ambient air if you let it. So kind of. I designed a cooling tower in my garage so This is made from laser-cut strips of acrylic I carefully tape these carefully sized strips cooling tower. This is a model of a natural draft but it is one of the simplest, and so it's perfect for this demonstration. You bottom of each acrylic strip. This tower bottom. If you look closely at the real aren't continuous all the way down Steam from the turbines doesn't go to the cooling of water, aptly called the cooling water. condenser that is cooled by cooling water, which I'm simulating that here with a bucket of hot pumped to sprayers inside the tower. If you know we can only get this water as cool as the ambient cold, so you can't get any more heat transfer once you know a little more about thermodynamics, the performance of a system like this. And this This is called fill. I'm just using cooling tower, the fill is usually a layer the surface area of the water in the system. splash into tiny drops or form thin sheets as surface area of the hot water as possible drips down. Air flows up. The pros call this process. (Actually you can use cross-flow as well, You might think that the outside air has just it has two. One we call the dry bulb temperature up in the weather report. It's what's on bulb temperature. If you soak the end of that water will evaporate. The drier the air, it feels so much hotter when it is also humid to convert water from a liquid to a gas, and cooling it down. So, as long as the ambient air you can actually cool water below the And the lower the humidity of the air, so the bigger the difference in This isn't anything revolutionary. Nature of years ago. It's why we sweat when it's hot. And it's not the only innovation in a natural you a cool graph. This is a psychrometric chart. entire college course learning about this stuff, groaning at the screen right now. But I just want the physical and thermal properties of air. its capacity to hold water goes up too. Kind of tea, hot air can hold more water than cold air. goes down. Confusingly, the psychrometric chart inverse of air density. So as you move up in air rises. Most of us know that. But maybe less hold the temperature constant, and just increase down. Water molecules actually weigh less than humid air is more buoyant than dry air. And this The hot water transfers its heat to the air. in the tower and drawing fresh air in through evaporated, removing more heat from the water, and cools the water down and creates a natural draft drier air as it does. Ignoring the pumps moving parts. So for just the cost of spraying convection in the tower, moving huge volumes out at the top to reject large amounts of heat to see rising from a cooling tower. It's not actual droplets as the now-saturated air mixes with the basically a cloud machine. That's why the plume I was really surprised at how well my little model (50 C) and the water coming out was dropping by a perfect cup of coffee down to a lukewarm shower. and there was a lot of it. I was really could create just by spraying some hot water wouldn't scale well because of turbulence, but the water down and looking cool on camera. the shape of the tower itself, Natural draft cooling towers often feature this it a hyperboloid. You can actually make one spaced and connected in a circle around the that it can be made from straight lines makes only reason they're built this way. After all, a aerodynamic benefits to using a hyperboloid as air to flow in at the bottom. The constricted wider top helps promote mixing of the hot really, these are secondary benefits. The These towers are big. To get enough natural the tower, the more warm, humid air is contained The largest natural draft towers are more than 650 120 meters in diameter. And you want the walls to cost and more area for airflow. But a really strong. It's basically a big empty coke can. But shell against vertical loads like the structure's also try this yourself. A thin piece of paper has in it, it's much harder to bend perpendicular to It's the Pringle factor. My model shows this floppy strips of acrylic. But even just taped hyperboloid can cut the structural stresses making structures like this much more economical use that shape. But that definitely doesn't In fact, hyperboloid natural draft towers that thermal power plants are pretty rare and schools that also often use cooling towers use mechanical draft systems, basically using I talk a little bit more about this in my even though they usually aren't too towery. and chemical plants use mechanical draft dependent on ambient conditions to create usually less expensive to build, and offer And not all cooling towers use evaporative exchangers inside, with the cooling water you're limited by the higher dry but you don't lose any water to evaporation, minerals that happens in wet systems The reason you see big natural draft towers at The long-term savings of not having to run big outweigh the higher initial costs. Particularly years or more, you can amortize the cost over usually already built in more remote locations less stringent, making it feasible to build such particularly common at nuclear plants for two an essential part of safety at a nuclear plant. that can go wrong in an emergency, the better. Nuclear facilities are usually baseload plants. output. So they can get away with a system than mechanical cooling required to ramp up and large baseload plants, the weather does, and not If you live in a dry place, you might be can cool and humidify the air. We called them sense that these work better in dry climates; so you get more evaporation, and you might assume that natural draft towers but that's not necessarily the case. And this took Let's look back at that psychrometric chart. Say we're in an 70 fahrenheit. The water from our condenser comes will be saturated at that temperature. And we're If the ambient relative humidity is say, 20 here. But it doesn't go in a straight line. it's not coming into contact with the warm water, toward the outlet temperature and gradually it rises through the fill. If you look at the problem. In the first part of the curve, the In other words, it's not gaining rise up the stack. It might work right the airflow in the tower will slow down and stall, But watch what happens if you increase the 50 percent. The line still curves initially toward temperature as it moves through the fill, but it path through the fill. So, cooling engineers you get a better draft as relative humidity goes look at it makes more sense. Natural draft cooling Even if the air is dry enough to evaporate you just can't get it to rise up a tower you'll notice different types of cooling nuclear plants in Texas and both use reservoirs involved in cooling feedwater at a power plant. maintain a dam and huge lake than a cooling I know that's a little in the weeds, engineering goes into things like this, and The economics of building large facilities know for sure that each design is going and that has driven a huge variety of types and match designs and styles according to what so there's practically no end to the designs you some newer cooling towers do put flue gas into duty. So I kind of lied at the beginning of the there really might be some smoke in that plume water. And in a world full of straight lines and it just makes good engineering sense to use curvy Another place where engineering meets nice smooth channel, you know how much I love to learn about my favorite channels, Neo, recently released a huge piece of the Titanic from the bottom involved in the project. As always, the 3D graphic part is the way he addresses the complicated a disaster. And if you want to check it You've heard me talk about Nebula before. It's creators, including a lot of my favorites like and Branch Education. I don't know about you, but watch these days. I just like the authenticity through a writers room and ten levels of studio for people who love trains. And I like that Nebula's totally ad-free, with tons of series and specials like Neo's video especially because a yearly membership My videos go live on Nebula before they come out creators are the future of great video, I go.nebula.tv/Practical-Engineering. Thank you