Today I have the great honor of interviewing Richard author of The Making of the Atomic Bomb, and History. I'm really excited about this one. Let's jump in at a current event, which is coming out, which I understand you've been What did you think of the trailer? What are your impressions? They've really done a good job of things like covered with cables of various kinds. I had watched Peaky Blinders, where the actor he looked so much like Oppenheimer to start Oppenheimer was about six feet tall, he was but in terms of structure. Someone said he could sit in a children's But he never weighed more than about 140 pounds So who knows? It all depends on how the director decided There are so many aspects of the story that one 2-hour movie. I think that we're waiting for the multi-part the story, if not the whole story. But it looks exciting. We'll see. There have been some terrible depictions of of the bomb program. And maybe they'll get this one right. Yeah, hopefully. It is always great when you get an actor who For example, Bryan Cranston who played LBJ, of the beady eyes, the big ears. Since we're talking about Oppenheimer, I had I understand that there's evidence that's spy. But is there any possibility that he was leaking helping the Soviet program? He was a communist sympathizer, right? He had been during the 1930s. But less for the theory than for the practical Germany. One of the loves of his life, Jean Tatlock, Europe during the 30. She was a member of the Communist Party and But I don't think there's any possibility In fact, he said he read Marx on a train trip thought it was a bunch of hooey, just ridiculous. He was a very smart man, and he read the book there was much there. He really didn't know anything about human He was born into considerable wealth. There were impressionist paintings all over His father had made a great deal of money military uniforms during and before the First I think his income during the war years and And that's a lot of money in the 1930s. So he just lived in his head for most of his that prime students of his were living on afford anything else. And once he understood that there was great as he always did when he became interested So all of those things come together. His brother Frank was a member of the party, I think the whole question of Oppenheimer World War about who approached him and who was primarily an effort to cover up his brother's Not that his brothers gave away any secrets, But if the army's security had really understood would have been shipped off to the Aleutians of the war. And Oppenheimer quite correctly wanted Frank He was someone he trusted. Let's start talking about The Making of the One question I have is -- if World War II the bomb just never gets developed? Nobody bothers. That's really a good question and I've wondered But the more I look at the sequence of events, inevitable, though perhaps not such an accelerated The bomb was pushed so hard during the Second already started working on one. Nuclear fission had been discovered in Nazi the beginning of the Second World War in Europe. Technological surveillance was not available The only way you could find out something human. And we didn't have that. So we didn't know where the Germans were, that could lead to a bomb had been discovered the West got started thinking about it. There was that most of all to push the urgency. In your hypothetical there would not have However, as soon as good physicists thought -- where a slow room temperature neutron, of a uranium-235 atom it would lead to a massive Isidore Rabi, one of the great physicists the moon struck the earth. The reaction was, as physicists say, fiercely It puts out a lot more energy than you have Once they did the numbers on that, and once need to have in one place to make a bomb or sure that there would be a chain reaction, of the reaction from one atom, and those two atoms, which would then fission them, and a geometric exponential. You'd get 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, and off of there. For most of our bombs today the initial fission, explosion. And then they had to figure out how much material Germans never really figured out, fortunately They were still working on the idea that somehow When Niels Bohr, the great Danish physicist, and then United States, he brought with him leading scientist in the German program, had out what Bohr knew about what America was And he showed it to the guys at Los Alamos physicists in the group, said -- "Are the us?" You can make a reactor blow up, we saw that on the scale that we're talking about with So when a couple of these emigres Jewish physicists time in England after they escaped, because therefore could not be introduced to top secret much would we need of pure uranium-235, this How much would we need to make a bomb?" And they did the numbers and they came up Of course, it is more than that. It's about 125 pounds, but that's just a softball. That's not that much material. And then they did the numbers about what it one rare isotope of uranium out of the natural And they figured it wouldn't cost more than is not that much money for a country at war. Certainly the British had plenty of battleships So they put all this together and they wrote physicists at Manchester University where important this was. The United States lagged behind because we London was being bombed in the blitz. So they saw the urgency, first of all, of of the possibility of building a bomb. In this report, these two scientists wrote which could offer protection against a bomb This report was from 1940 long before the They said in this report, the only way we would be to have a bomb of similar destructive the other side attacked you. That's deterrence. That's a concept that was developed even before You put all those pieces together and you bomb because whoever builds the first bomb more or prevent another country from building And the notion of Adolf Hitler dominating was horrifying. Put all that together and the answer is every to even remotely have the possibility of building material for a bomb started work on thinking to the world. France, the Soviet Union, Great Britain, the So I think the bomb would have been developed In the book you talk that for some reason was something like 10 tons, they had done A reactor. You also have some interesting stories in out the Americans were working on the bomb. For example, the Russians saw that all the were no longer publishing. They had just gone offline and so they figured I'm not sure if you're aware that while the and of itself is incredibly fascinating, this Are you familiar with this? No. The people who are working on AI right now They're the ones who initially recommended progress in the field reminded them of this Because you start off with these initial scientific With deep learning, for example, here's something to Szilard noticing the nuclear chain reaction. In AI there's these scaling laws that say it gets much better at reasoning, at predicting And then you can extrapolate this curve. And you can see we get two more orders of like human level intelligence. Anyway, a lot of the people who are working of this reason. They see a lot of analogies in the next few They must be at page 400 in their minds of We must later on talk about unintended consequences. I find the subject absolutely fascinating. I think my next book might be called Unintended You mentioned that a big reason why many of especially the Jewish emigres, was because As you mentioned at some point, 1943, 1944, were not close to the bomb. And I believe that almost none of the scientists close. So why didn't more of them say -- "Oh, The Nazis aren't going to get it. We don't need to be working on it."? There was only one who did that, Joseph Rotblat. In May of 1945 when he heard that Germany General Groves, the imperious Army Corps of Project, was really upset. He was afraid he'd spill the beans. So he threatened to have him arrested and But Rotblat was quite determined not to stay He was not interested in building bombs to States of America, which is perfectly understandable. But why was no one else? Let me tell it in terms of Victor Weisskopf. He was an Austrian theoretical physicist, took over Germany and then Austria and ended Weisskopf wrote later -- "There we were part of our science." They were working on a weapon of mass destruction, He said "Before it had almost seemed like And it's really interesting how different Second World War. Before the war, one of the physicists in America PhD in physics at Berkeley in 1937 and went your degree in?" He would tell them "Chemistry." I said, "Louis, why?" He said, "because I don't really have to That's how little known this kind of science There were only about 1,000 physicists in By the mid-30s, there were a lot more, of There'd been a lot of nuclear physics and But it was still arcane. And they didn't feel as if they were doing They were just doing pure science. Then nuclear fission came along. It was publicized worldwide. People who've been born since after the Second secret at first. The news was published first in a German chemistry in the British journal Nature and then in And there were headlines in the New York Times, and all over the world. People had been reading about and thinking nucleus for a long time. It was clear there was a lot there. All you had to do was get a piece of radium This chunk of material just sat there, you And if you held it in your hand, it would So where did that energy come from? The physicists realized it all came from the part of the whole thing. The nucleus is 1/100,000th the diameter of Someone in England described it as about the All of the energy that's involved in chemical around the nucleus. But it was clear that the nucleus was the But the question was, how do you get them The only way that the nucleus had been studied which have the same electric charge as the were repelled by it. So you had to accelerate them to high speeds that we've all become aware of since then. The cyclotron most obviously built in the And even then, at best, you could chip a little You could change an atom one step up or one This was the classic transmutation of medieval get much out. So everyone came to think of the nucleus of had to hammer hard to get anything to happen That's why nuclear fission, with this slow just goes bang, was so startling to everybody. So startling that when it happened, most of bomb and others as well, realized that they they could have staged on a lab bench with Didn't have to invent anything new. And Louis Alvarez again, this physicist at hair cut. When I read the newspaper, I pulled off the lab, pulled some equipment off the shelf, So he said, "I discovered nuclear fission, And that happened all over. People were just hitting themselves on the fools we've all been." So this is a good example of how in science, it doesn't lead you down the right path. There was only one physicist who really was and that was Niels Bohr. He wondered, sometime during the 30s, why periodic table? What is different about the others that would He visualized the nucleus as a liquid drop. I always like to visualize it as a water-filled It's wobbly, it's not very stable. The protons in the nucleus are held together they still have the repellent positive electric you get enough of them into a nucleus. It's almost a standoff between the strong So it is like a wobbly balloon of water. And then you see why a neutron just falling even more and in one of its configurations, And then you'd have basically two charged each other apart. And often enough, they went the whole way. When they did that, these two new elements, table, would reconfigure themselves into two And in doing so, they would release some energy. And that was the energy that came out of the So Bohr thought about the model in the right The chemists who actually discovered nuclear They were just bombarding a solution of uranium we can make a new element, maybe a first man-made So when they analyzed the solution after they down the periodic table. They shouldn't have been there. And they were totally baffled. What is this doing here? Do we contaminate our solution? No. They had been working with a physicist named an Austrian Jew. She had gotten out of Nazi Germany not long But they were still in correspondence with So they wrote her a letter. I held that letter in my hand when I visited You don't hold history of that scale in your And it said in German -- "We found this What are these elements doing there that don't And she went for a walk in a little village who was also a nuclear physicist. And they thought about it for a while and balloon. And they suddenly saw what could happen. And that's where the news came from, the physics the guys in Germany that was published in And everybody had been talking about, for of energy. A glass of this material would drive the Queen 20 times and so forth, your automobile could People were thinking about what would be possible And of course, people had thought about reactors. Robert Oppenheimer was a professor at Berkeley one of his students told me that he had a of both a reactor and a bomb. So again, because the energy was so great, Whether it would actually happen depended chain react? But fundamentally, the idea was all there on it. The book is actually the best history of World It's about the atomic bomb, but it's interspersed War II, which motivate the creation of the dropped on Japan given the Japanese response. The first third is about the scientific roots I've read about the history of science in of it. There's some really interesting stuff in there. For example, there was a passage where you model in early science where if you wanted you will go to Amsterdam where the master It's much more individual focused. Yeah, the whole European model of graduate You could go wherever you wanted to and sign up. But the question I wanted to ask regarding is -- there's one way you can think about different from any sort of weaponry that has Another way you can think of it is there's bomb, in the middle you have the atom bomb, cities like Hamburg and Dresden and Tokyo. Do you think of these as completely different gradient to you? I think until you get to the hydrogen bomb, The hydrogen bomb can be made arbitrarily The biggest one ever tested was 56 megatons The Soviet tested that. That had a fireball more than five miles in So that's really an order of magnitude change. But the other one's no and in fact, I think much discussed and it should be, when American the war, one of them said later -- "I got We flew down the long green archipelago of When I left Tokyo, it was all gray broken bombings. And then all this greenery. And then when we flew over Hiroshima, it was So the scale of the bombing with one bomb, from the scale of the fire bombings that had The difference was it was just one plane. In fact, the people in Hiroshima didn't even one plane had always just been a weather plane. Coming over to check the weather before the So they didn't see any reason to hide or protect many people were killed. The guys at Los Alamos had planned on the They did everything they could think of to as they could. And for example, it was exploded high enough the fireball that would form from this really -- 15 kilotons of TNT equivalent, wouldn't it and cause massive radioactive fallout. It never did that. They weren't sure there would be any fallout. They thought the plutonium and the bomb over a gas and blow away. That's not exactly what happened. But people don't seem to realize, and it's bombs, like all nuclear weapons, were firebombs. Their job was to start mass fires, just exactly been destroying every major city in Japan Every major city above 50,000 population had The only reason Hiroshima and Nagasaki were been set aside from the target list, because effects would be. The bomb that was tested in the desert didn't It killed a lot of rabbits, knocked down a see its effect on buildings and on people. So the bomb was deliberately intended to be because we didn't want the reputation for the First World War, where people were killing We just wanted people to think this was another So in that sense, it was. Of course, there was radioactivity. And of course, some people were killed by But they calculated that the people who would radiation from the original fireball, would that they would be killed by the blast or The world's worst sunburn. You've seen stories of people walking around I've had sunburns almost that bad, but not actually peeled blisters and peels off. That was a sunburn from a 10,000 degree artificial So that's not the heat, that's just the light? Radiant light, radiant heat. 10,000 degrees. But the blast itself only extended out a certain And all the nuclear weapons that have ever That's important because the military in the figure out how to calculate the effects of their previous experience. They would only calculate the blast effects targets. That's why we had what came to be called overkill. We wanted redundancy, of course, but 60 nuclear be necessary to destroy even that big a city But in fact, if you exploded a 300 kiloton feet, it would blast all the way out to the But if you counted the fire, it would start way out to the Beltway and burn everything Beltway. All organic matter would be totally burned I want to emphasize two things you said because I'm not sure if the audience has fully integrated The first is, in the book, the military planners the bomb sooner rather than later, because there are enough buildings left that it would is insane. An entire country is almost already destroyed And the second thing about the category difference Daniel Ellsberg, the nuclear planner who wrote don't understand that the atom bomb that resulted that is simply the detonator of a modern nuclear So for example, 10 and 15 kilotons is the was 50 megatons. So more than 1,000 times as much. And that wasn't even as big as they could They kept the uranium tamper off, because So you could get more than 10,000 times as When Edward Teller, co-inventor of the hydrogen was consulting with our military, just for how big could you make a hydrogen bomb? He came up with 1,000 megatons. And then he looked at the effects. 1,000 megatons would be a fireball 10 miles And the atmosphere is only 10 miles deep. He figured that it would just be a waste of space. Some of it would go laterally, of course, So a bomb more than 100 megatons would just Of course, a 100 megatons bomb is also a total big enough to justify that from a military Robert Oppenheimer, when he had his security he was being punished for having resisted asked by the interrogator at this security had a hydrogen bomb for Hiroshima, wouldn't And Oppenheimer said, "No." The interrogator asked, "Why is that?" He said because the target was too small. I hope that scene is in the film, I'm sure So after the war, when our bomb planners and and Nagasaki, just about as soon as the surrender the scale of destruction, of course. And those two cities didn't look that different with small incendiaries and ordinary high They went home to Washington, the policy makers, are not so destructive after all." They had been touted as city busters, basically, They didn't completely burn out cities. They were not certainly more destructive than of more than 50,000 population had already That, in turn, influenced the judgment about Union when the Soviets got the bomb in 1949. There was a general sense that, when you could or not, you would need quite a few of them And the Air Force, once it realized that it budget by cornering the market and delivering they would only look at the blast effect and It's like tying one hand behind your back. Most of it was a fire effect. So that's where they came up with numbers And what the Air Force figured out by the bombs. The more bombs, the more planes. The more planes, the biggest share of the So by the mid 1950s, the Air Force commanded And the other branches of services, which said, we'd better find some use for these So the Army discovered that it needed nuclear out of cannons. There was even one that was fired out of a There was a satchel charge that two men could be used to dig a ditch so that Soviet tanks And of course the Navy by then had been working submarine that could carry ballistic missiles No way anybody could trace those submarines And a nuclear reactor is very quiet. It just sits there with neutrons running around, So the other services jumped in and this famous kinds of nuclear weapons, baloney. We would be perfectly safe if we only had And only one or two of those. One nuclear submarine can take out all of Because it has multiple nukes on it? Because they have 16 intercontinental ballistic per missile. Wow. I had a former guest, Richard Hanania, who out that our model of thinking about why countries affairs, is wrong because we think of them it's these competing factions within the government. And in fact, you see this especially in the great book of Japan leading up to World War the Japanese military, I forget which, needed so they forced these other branches to escalate. But it's so interesting that the reason branches are competing for funding. Douhet, the theorist of air power, had been Somebody (John Masefield) called the trenches dug, because millions of men were killed and a foot that way, all this horror. And Douhet came up with the idea that if you of the enemy and destroy his capacity to make would rise up in rebellion and throw out their And this became the dream of all the Air Forces Until around 1943, it was called the US Army The dream of every officer in the Air Force be something that delivers ground support but a power that could actually win wars. And the missing piece had always been the So when the bomb came along, you can see why during the prime years of that force, was Because if a plane got shot down, but the would be just almost as effective as the two So they wanted big bombs. And they went after Oppenheimer because he there was really no military use for these Furthermore, the United States had more cities And we were making ourselves a better target a whole state. I used to live in Connecticut and I saw a up from New York City to Boston. And I thought, well, now if that was fallout, That was the scale that it was going to be So on the one hand, you had some of the important weapons were not the war-winning weapons that could be. And on the other hand, you had the Air Force to battles. All because some guy in a trench in World theoretical about what was possible with air Remember, they were still flying biplanes. When H.G. Wells wrote his novel, The World that would lead to world government, he had forgot to update his planes. The guys in the back seat, the bombardiers, And when the pilots had dropped the bomb, idea of an atomic bomb and throw it over the Which is kind of what was happening in Washington And it led us to a terribly misleading and we needed, which in turn fermented the arms In the Soviet Union, they had a practical Every factory was supposed to produce 120% That was considered good Soviet realism. And they did that with their nuclear war weapons. So by the height of the Cold War, they had yet of nuclear winter. So if both sides had set off this string of would have been the end of the human world It raises an interesting question, if the nuclear weapon was like the fire bombing, wasn't a thermonuclear weapon, that there now because people wouldn't have been thinking I don't think so because we're talking about 400 planes and thousands of bombs. That scale was clear. Deterrence was the more important business. Everyone seemed to understand even the spies wholesaling information back to the Soviet There's this comic moment when Truman is sitting Stalin, we have a powerful new weapon. And that's as much as he's ready to say about And Stalin licks at him and says, "Good, Stalin knows exactly what he's talking about. He's seen the design of the fat man type Nagasaki He has held it in his hands because they had How much longer would it have taken the Soviets spies? Probably not any longer. Really? When the Soviet Union collapsed in the winter could get over there. In this limbo between forming a new kind of out and becoming independent and so forth, on their bombs were free to talk. And I found that out through Yelena Bonner, to people I knew. And she said, yeah, come on over. Her secretary, Sasha, who was a geologist the country. We went to various apartments. They were retired guys from the bomb program sac-and-potatoes and some salt. They had government pensions and the money I was buying photographs from them, partly because 20 bucks was two months' income at So it was easy for me and it helped them. They had first class physicists in the Soviet They told me that by 1947, they had a design and twice the yield of the Fat Man bomb. The Fat Man bomb was the plutonium implosion, And it weighed about 9,000 pounds. They had a much smaller and much more deliverable Why was Soviet physics so good? The Russian mind? I don't know. They learned all their technology from the so many French words in Russian. So they got good teachers, the French are building things, but they're very good at There's something about Russia, I don't know They do have good education, they did. But I remember asking them when they were you didn't have any computers yet. We only had really early primitive computers hydrodynamics of that explosion. I said, "What did you do?" They said, "Oh, we just used nuclear. We just used theoretical physics." Which is what we did at Los Alamos. We had guys come in who really knew their out by hand. And women with old Marchant calculators running So basically they were just good scientists Kurchatov who ran the program took Lavrentiy of the program and said -- "Look, we can You really wanna waste the time to make that And Beria said, "Comrade, I want the American Give me the American bomb or you and all your I talked to one of the leading scientists we valued our families. So we gave them a copy of the plutonium implosion Now that you explain this, when the Soviet or another country, send a few people to the scientists to start their own program? Or buy off their stockpiles or something. Or did they? There was some effort by countries in the which they wouldn't sell them. These were responsible scientists. They told me -- we worked on the bomb because a monopoly on the part of any country in the So patriotically, even though Stalin was in We felt that it was our responsibility to There was a great rush at the end of the Second And about an equal number were grabbed by All of the leading German scientists, like as fast as they could. They didn't want to be captured by the Soviets. But there were some who were. And they helped them work. People have the idea that Los Alamos was where And it's true that at Los Alamos, we had the first actual weapons. But the truth is, the important material for One of the scientists in the Manhattan Project high-level nuclear explosion just by taking one on the floor and dropping the other by If that's true, then all this business about What you really need for a weapon is the critical If you've got that, there are lots of different We had two totally different ways that we The gun on the one hand for uranium, and then you fired up the barrel of a cannon at 3,000 before the two pieces made it up. So for that reason, they had to invent an piece of work. From the Soviet point of view, and I think but it puts the Russian experience into a All the way back in the 30s, since the beginning War, they had been sending over espionage willing to work for them to collect industrial They didn't have it when they began their It was very much an agricultural country. And in that regard, people still talk about we did the same thing with the British back We didn't know how to make a canal that wouldn't The British had a certain kind of clay that were canals all over England, even in the flow of water. And we brought a British engineer at great for the canals that opened up the Middle West So they were doing the same thing. And one of those spies was a guy named Harry He gave them some of the basic technology Harry Gold was the connection between David Los Alamos and the Soviet Union. So it was not different. The model was -- never give us something and you know works. So it would actually be blueprints for factories, And therefore when Beria after the war said, bomb because we know that works. I don't trust you guys. Who knows what you'll do. You're probably too stupid anyway. He was that kind of man. So for all of those reasons, they built the and half the way to the first bomb. In other words, it was their new design. And so it was ours because the technology but it was too theoretical still to use. You just had to put the core and have a little so that the blast wave would have a chance And Alvarez couldn't tell me what it was force with a hammer if you hit something with hammer and push. And it took me several years before I figured I finally understood he was talking about On the topic that the major difficulty in of uranium into U-235 or its transmutation a physicist in preparation for this conversation. He explained the same thing that if you get you wouldn't have the full bomb because it tamper, but you would still have more than It would be a few kilotons. Alvarez's model would be a few kilotons, but Yeah, sorry I meant kiloton. He claimed that one of the reasons why we time the government didn't want other countries got it. So they were like, oh, we did all this fancy gonna get to, so don't even worry about it. I don't know what you make of that theory. That basically it was sort of a way to convince I think all the physics had been checked out It was pretty clear to everybody what you That there was a fast fusion reaction, not They'd worked that out. So I don't think that's really the problem. But to this day, no one ever talks about the of the weapon. You could make one with wooden boxes if you The problem is getting the material. And that's good because it's damned hard to And it's something you can protect. We also have gotten very lucky, if lucky is I think you mentioned this in the book at have been such that unrefined uranium ore In some sense, we got lucky that it takes and produce the raw substance. Yeah, I was thinking about that this morning And all the uranium in the world would already Most people have never heard of the living bed of uranium ore in Africa about two billion When there was more U-235 in a mass of uranium like all radioactive elements. And the French discovered it when they were a totally different set of nuclear characteristics. They were like, what happened? But there were natural reactors in Gabon once And they started up because some water, a washed its way down through a bed of much have today. Maybe 5-10% instead of 3.5 or 1.5, whatever And they ran for about 100,000 years and then enough fusion products that the U-235 had Interestingly, this material never migrated People today who are anti-nuclear say, well, Where are we gonna put all that waste? It's silly. Shove it in a hole. Yeah, basically. That's exactly what we're planning to do. Holes that are deep enough and in beds of everything to decay back to the original ore. It's not a big problem except politically On the topic of the Soviets, one question with Stalin at Yalta and we surrendered a his sphere of influence. And obviously we saw 50 years of immiseration Given the fact that only we had the bomb, have just knocked out the Soviet Union or succumbing to communism in the aftermath of Is that a possibility? When we say we had the bomb, we had a few It took almost as long to assemble one as drive the original charge that would set off It was a big bluff. You know, when they closed Berlin in 1948 and food for a whole winter, we moved some The B-29 being the bomber that had carried They were not outfitted for nuclear weapons. They didn't have the same kind of bomb-based The weapons that were dropped in Japan had So when the bay opened and the hook was released, And that's very different from dropping whole photographs and the film footage. So it was a big bluff on our part. We took some time after the war inevitably Here was a brand new technology. Here was a brand new weapon. Who was gonna be in charge of it? The military wanted control, Truman wasn't He'd been an artillery officer in the First He used to say -- "No, damn artillery captain I grew up in the same town he lived in so Independence, Missouri. Used to see him at his front steps taking president. He used to step out on the porch and let the About a half a block from my Methodist church It was interesting. Interestingly, his wife was considered much She was from an old family in independence, And he was some farmer from way out in Grandview, Values. Anyway, at the end of the war, there was a already a zone. There was a Soviet zone, a French zone, British Germany was divided up into those zones to Germans had stockpiled. And there was evidence that there was a number in the middle of all of this. And there's a very funny story about how the of uranium ore, this yellow black stuff in And we at the same night, just before the in from the other side, grabbing some other But there was also a good deal of requisitioning And the ones who had gotten away early came ended up helping the Soviets. And they were told, look, you help us build that we need. And we'll let you go home and back to your Early 50s by then, the German scientists who And I think our people stayed here and brought Was there an opportunity after the end of the bomb, for the US to do something where the bomb, or if that wasn't possible, make eliminating this knowledge, you guys don't from this. We tried both before the war. General Groves, who had the mistaken impression uranium ore in the world, put together a company available supply. For some reason, he didn't realize that a to have some uranium ore somewhere. And of course it did, in Kazakhstan, rich wanted to build. But he didn't know that, and I frankly don't uranium's use before the Second World War that famous yellow pottery and orange pottery came from uranium, and they're sufficiently wave a Geiger counter over them, you get some In fact, there have been places where they've Mexican pottery and taken it out in a lead-lined People have been so worried about it but that kind of glass. So once it became clear that there was another Groves tried to corner the world market, and So that was one effort to limit what the Soviet Another was to negotiate some kind of agreement That was something that really never got off State was an old Southern politician and he He went to the first meeting, in Geneva in around and said, well, I got the bomb in my And the Soviet basically said, screw you. We don't care. We're not worried about your bomb. Go home. So that didn't work. Then there was the effort to get the United international control. And the program was proposed originally by that included Robert Oppenheimer, rightly were industrialists, engineers, government around the very complicated problems of technology the diplomacy. In a couple of weeks, Oppenheimer taught them and what he knew about bomb design, which Alamos. He was a scientist during the war. And they came up with a plan. People have scoffed ever since at what came after the State Department people. But it's the only plan I think anyone has you could have international control without Every country would be open to inspection And the inspections would not be at the convenience But whenever the inspectors felt they needed So what Oppenheimer called an open world. And if you had that, and then if each country nuclear power, medical uses, whatever, then to build bombs, you would know about it at And then you could try diplomacy. If that didn't work, you could try conventional If that wasn't sufficient, then you could And at the end of this sequence, which would bombs existing in the world, and the ore was maybe, maybe a year, it would be time for rather than deterrence without weapons, with That to me is the answer to the whole thing. And it might have worked. But there were two big problems. One, no country is going to allow a monopoly So the Russians were not willing to sign on They just couldn't. How could they? We would not have. Two, Sherman assigned a kind of a loudmouth, program to the United Nations. And he sat down with Oppenheimer after he your army? Somebody starts working on a bomb over there. You've got to go in and take that out, don't He said, what would happen if one country Oppenheimer said, well, that would be an act Meaning then the other countries could begin against one power, trying to overwhelm the Well, Bernard Baruch was the name of the man. He didn't get it. So when he presented his revised version of the Baruch Plan to the United Nations, he And he insisted that the United States would else had signed on. So of course, who's going to sign on to that I feel he has a point in the sense that -- World If we find that the Soviets are starting to months or a year or whatever, it would take And to the point we found out that they've engage in it, and doing all the diplomacy. By that point, they might already have the And so we're behind because we dismantled We are only starting to develop our weapons Not to develop. Presumably we would have developed. And everybody would have developed anyway. Another way to think of this is as delayed Takes about 30 minutes to get an ICBM from That's the time window for doing anything So take the warhead off those missiles and So then it takes three hours. You've got to put the warhead back on the If the other side is willing to do this too. And you both can watch and see. We require openness. A word Bohr introduced to this whole thing. In order to make this happen, you can't have And of course, as time passed on, we developed from planes, and so forth. It would not have worked in 1946 for sure. The surveillance wasn't there. But that system is in place today. The International Atomic Energy Agency has They can detect 50 pounds of dynamite exploded that we have in place. It's technical rather than human resources. But it's there. So it's theoretically possible today to get Except, of course, now, in like 1950, the Despite the reductions that have occurred 30,000-40,000 nuclear weapons in the world. Way too many. Yeah. That's really interesting. What percentage of warheads do you think are If there's 30,000 warheads, what percentage All. Oh. Really? North Korea doesn't have secrets? They're allowed to inspect anywhere without But presumably not North Korea or something, North Korea is an exception. But we keep pretty good track of North Korea Are you surprised with how successful non-proliferation The number of countries with nuclear weapons Given the fact, as you were talking about or transmuting uranium. Is it surprising that there aren't more That's really an interesting part. Again, a part of the story that most people In the 50s, before the development and signing was 1968 and it took effect in 1970, a lot were working on nuclear weapons. Sweden, Norway, Japan, South Korea. They had the technology. They just didn't have the materials. It was kind of dicey about what you should But I interviewed some of the Swedish scientists we were just talking about making some tactical advance on our country long enough for us I said, so why did you give it up? And they said, well, when the Soviets developed destroy Sweden. So we didn't see much point. And we then signed the Non-Proliferation Treaty. And our knowledge of how to build nuclear South Africa, which did build a few bombs Six World War II-type gun bombs fueled with awash in uranium ore and makes a lot of uranium So efforts were starting up. And that's where John Kennedy got the numbers said, I lose sleep at night over the real nuclear weapons by 1970 and 30 by 1980. And of course, that would have been a nightmare them would have gone up accordingly. But after the Cuban Missile Crisis, we and to slow this thing down for us and for others And the treaty that was then put together It said, if you don't build nuclear weapons, energy technology that will allow you to forge There was a belief in the early years of nuclear learned by a country, they would immediately And no one really thought it through. It seemed sort of self-evident. But it wasn't self-evident. There are dangers to building a nuclear weapon If you're a little country and you have a destroy a large country, or at least disable destructive weapons. That makes you a target. That means that a large country is going to never would have before. That kind of logic dawned on everybody at And they were getting a good deal. And the other part of the deal was the part day, which was an agreement that we would disarmament. We didn't do that. We just told them we would. And then kind of snuck around on the sides. So much so that by this treaty, because no treaties are usually signed and they exist They don't have any end date. They go on until somebody breaks the rules. But this treaty was given a 25-year review point if the countries had chosen to abrogate And everybody could have gone back to making It almost came to that for the very reason their agreement to start reducing arsenals. We didn't start reducing our nuclear arsenal of the Soviet Union. That's when we began cutting back, as did A diplomat who's a friend of mine, Tom Graham, of going around to the countries that were of the treaty and convincing their leaderships It wasn't in their best interest to abrogate Tom spent two years on the road. The only place he thought he should go is he could have talked to, but back to the home And he convinced enough countries around the He's another hero who's never been properly He convinced enough countries around the world perpetuity. With the proviso that the goddamn nine nuclear And of course, George H.W. Bush, bless him, I didn't like his politics the nuclear arsenal in half right away. We dropped our numbers way, way lower than He pulled the amount of South Korea, which the North Koreans and China, and did a lot in nuclear arsenal. And the Russians agreed at that time. It was before Putin took power. So there was a change for the better, but So that's why there are only nine nuclear How worried are you about a proxy war between For example, people have been worried about In the future, if we're facing an invasion worry about. I had a friend who understands these things thought, listen, if there's like a war, if Taiwan. We'll build semiconductor factories in Arkansas. Who cares, right? And he explains, no, you don't understand, and South Korea decide to go nuclear because And if they go nuclear, then the risk of nuclear Or they just decide to align with China. Yeah, because we didn't protect them with Oh, I guess we haven't promised Taiwan that, I think it's implied. Yeah. If we said we're going to help defend them, Yeah. But anyway, the question was, how worried There's been a lot of argument about whether The best evidence is that the United States beginning with Korea and then Vietnam, and we were willing to accept defeat. We accepted defeat in Vietnam for sure, rather behind those peripheral countries, was a major China, Soviet Union, whatever. And we didn't want to risk a nuclear war. So at that level, deterrence really seemed But there's been a change lately. And I find it kind of terrifying. The first manifestation was with India and They both went nuclear full scale in the late India had tested one bomb in 1974, which they that is. But they hadn't proceeded anywhere from there. And Pakistan had tested their first bomb in guy who was trying to proliferate to Iran But they didn't build a lot of warheads either. And then their conflict or the personalities each other. And both sides tested a quick flurry of four Now they were full fledged nuclear powers But then in 1999, there was a border conflict And Pakistan came up with a whole new argument Not only could you prevent a nuclear escalation, could have a conventional war with the other you still had your nuclear arsenal. And that, which came very close to a nuclear me, and we're all over both countries about, backed off. But Putin or someone in the Russian complex And it's the one Putin is using now. He's basically saying, I'm having a conventional And don't you dare introduce nuclear weapons In fact, if you defeat me, I may introduce Screw you. I'm going to use my nukes as a backup. That's new. And it's terrifying because it's a totally too far, too fast to be able to know what's And in some sense, he is calling our bluff Obviously you shouldn't say this but hopefully nuke used in Ukraine by getting the US annihilated. I don't think we would respond to it with But I do think we would respond with some just with that part of Russia, I don't know. We've long had a policy called decapitation. We long ago could the individual apartments individual warheads. In the window at high noon, because they are If you're thinking about cruise missiles, a nuclear warhead and not just a high explosive. They've known that for a long time. That doesn't give anybody time to get into This has gotten really very hairy. Used to be pretty straightforward. Don't bomb us, or we will bomb you. Attack in some peripheral country and we won't We'll lose that little war, but we'll come All of these things, that's complicated enough. But now we're talking about this other level. So in some sense, this idea that we can backstop After World War Two, the Soviets had millions Europe and we didn't have troops remaining you invade Western Europe, we'll respond with I guess that worked. It worked until August 1949, when the Soviets And that's when panic hit Washington. And the whole debate went on about, do we And ultimately, the military prevailed and And plus, Fuchs was outed and there was this because Fuchs knew our early work on hydrogen We were exploring the possibility. All of that came together too with a kind prevailed. And we said, let's build bigger bombs, as But there had been a balance of forces, you're They had two million men on the ground in We had the bomb. And then the balance of force was disrupted So then how do we rebalance? And the rebalance was the hydrogen bomb. And that's how you get to Armageddon ultimately, I was reading the acknowledgements and you Is that right? I did. And obviously, he was a big inspiration for What were his feelings when you talked to I made the mistake of going to see Teller early on in my research when I really didn't and what I should ask and so forth. I sent him a copy of an essay I'd written that set him off. He had reached the point where he was telling he would actually be on the air, and when say, all right, then I will answer three questions Trying to control because he was convinced him look bad. He really had quite a lot of paranoia at that So when he read my essay on Oppenheimer, he at me, waving my big, heavy book, one of my I remember thinking, oh, my God, he's going Then I thought, wait, this guy's 80 years I can take him. But he finally said, all right, I will answer And we sat down and I asked him one and he I asked him the second question and it was I said, was Robert Oppenheimer a good lab And I thought, well, here's the chance where But Oppenheimer's worst enemy said to me, I ever knew." And I thought, bingo. And then he chased me out of the house. And I went up the road to a friend's house Because I was really shaken. It was so new to me, all of this. But that quote was worth the whole thing because liked Hannibal best of all the classical figures he comes down to us only in the written memoirs And if they thought he was such a good leader, The way the Manhattan Project is organized, startup in Silicon Valley, you usually have The non-technical founder is in charge of on. And the technical founders in charge of organizing And in Oppenheimer, you had the guy who understood the nuclear physics, and then Groves is getting that you see. But why was Oppenheimer such a great lab director? Oppenheimer was a man with a very divided One of his closest friends was I.I. Robbie, a really profound and interesting I'm going to be writing about him in my next I spent some time with Robbie just before always felt as if he could never decide whether of Columbus or [unclear]." He said he was a certain kind of American The German Jews who came over before and after were not from the shtetls of the paler settlement They were sophisticated, they were well educated. They were a totally different group and as easily. Oppenheimer wasn't sent to a Jewish school. He was sent to the famous school that was culture school. It was based on the idea of an ethical, moral So his parents found this niche for him. He never quite pulled himself together as And as is true with many people with that actor. He could play lots of different roles and Women adored him. He was one of the most lavish courtiers of He would bring a bouquet of flowers to their to people in those days. He was just a lovely, courtly man. But in the classroom, if somebody made a stupid And he taught a course in physics that was took it twice because they couldn't store He was nasty to people all the time in a way Louis Alvarez, who was someone I got to know memoirs, he was one of the important scientists at all because Oppenheimer was so condescending Louis was kind of a hothead and he didn't Oppenheimer never won a Nobel, Louis did. There was this layer of Oppenheimer being and his insecurity extended to physics. Robbie said later he couldn't sit down and to be someone who always knew everything that You could call that someone who was a very you could call him someone who was superficial He knew broadly rather than deeply. He and a graduate student of his developed it came up after the war. They published a paper on what was essentially But it wasn't called the black hole yet. John Wheeler invented that term many years if it collapsed, would just keep on collapsing light, came from Oppenheimer. And if the black hole had been discovered would have had a Nobel for the theory. That being said, he still was someone who And he was someone who was really good at General Groves, who himself had two or three slouch. But his was more the industrial side of everything. How do you build a factory when you don't He built the factories at Oak Ridge, Tennessee piles that would later lead to the big reactors going to go in the factory. He got orders of magnitude numbers and he this big, we want this attached to it. We're going to need power, going to need He was that kind of really great engineer physics to it. And he saw pretty quickly at the meetings where they were building the first reactor, at explaining things. So he grabbed him and Groves spent the war these various sites. He'd have the advisors from one site like the train from Chicago to Santa Fe. Then they'd get off and take the next train Then he'd pick up the guys who were going and they'd ride with him round and round and He got a plane later in the war. But most of the war, he just had people riding And Oppenheimer later said, well, I became And Oppenheimer did. He explained all the physics to Groves because Laureates around the table and would say things my work at MIT probably was the equivalent And they would think, who is this guy? Was that sarcasm or? No, he wasn't. He had multiple degrees. You know how the military works when there's They send their guys to school to get them So when the time came to find someone to run, place where the scientists could get together going to advance their science. And that is, talk to each other. The system that Groves had installed around forth, was called compartmentalization for And basically it was -- you're only allowed the overall picture of what your job might So, for example, there were women at Oak Ridge uranium 235 from uranium 238 with magnetic the very slight difference in mass between The women who were doing this work were set a big arrow that went from zero to ten or right here on this. They didn't know what they were making. They really got good at spinning their dials of whatever electric process was going on So compartmentalization worked. But Oppenheimer said, if we are compartmentalized Science works by gift exchange. I discover something, I publish the results. All the other scientists in my field can read And then they can take that information and And that's the way it's always been done. And that's the only way it works. As soon as you lock people up and tell them the discovery over here doesn't get applied Simple. Groves reluctantly agreed to let the place You see the parallel with the open world about Same sort of thing. How can you know what's going on if you can't See what they're doing. But he insisted that the whole crew be put no one else was around. So they did. Groves had worked with Oppenheimer. Oppenheimer was now playing the lab director. And he was superb at it, as Teller's remark For the period of the war, Hans Bethe told could be cruel. He would pounce on a mistake you made." And Bethe, a Nobel Laureate, discovered what That's how important Bethe's work was and Bethe told me, "everyone makes mistakes. I made mistakes. Oppenheimer would charge me with a mistake But before the war, after the war, but not During the war, he was a superb wise lab director. Because unlike most scientists, he was not was psychologically astute as a human being, got to scope out what's going on. Oppenheimer wrote pretty good poetry. He was interested in art. He wanted to read the Bhagavad Gita Gita in He was very smart, needless to say, and had Not all the physicists who did first class They took some other qualities as well. It took the [unclear] sitting down in a chair to it. That's what Robbie said. And he said, that's why Oppenheimer never All in all, Oppenheimer became in this place [unclear]. Remember they were working on a bomb that people but it was the most curious collection field before the war. And here they were in the war and they began maybe we're doing something truly horrendous minute. Oppenheimer by then was kind of a student Oppenheimer had the job of recruiting everyone would be doing because it was secret. So he would go to a university campus where and they would go out for a walk to get away And Oppenheimer would say, I can't tell you I can tell you that it will certainly end And that was quite enough. I mean, most of them figured out what they'd when you start looking at the list of people They're all nuclear physicists. So Oppenheimer and Bohr together brought this that there was a paradox. The bomb had two sides and they were in a certainly true that this was going to be a be true if all worked out and they tried to to large scale war. If you go to the numbers and graph the number 18th century, it's almost exponential up to the war itself and the Holocaust. And then it starts to decline as the war begins The war is really 1945. It drops down to about one to two million And although one to two million deaths a year six to seven million people in the world every So in a curious way, the introduction of how of nation states such that they could no longer They had to find some other way, at least way. I think that's very important because people change, the introduction of the release of As we've been talking, I've been thinking AI and the whole larger interesting question story of unintended consequences. All the countries that worked on the bomb going to have a weapon that will surpass them One ring to bind them all like Lord of the They thought it would aggrandize national national power. For the first time in the history of the world, rather than universal. It was something that would no longer be possible. And who did that? Scientists going about their quiet work of the universe works. Bohr, who's one of my favorite people in the power over nature, as people seem to think. Science is about the gradual removal of prejudice. By that, he meant when Galileo and Copernicus of the earth in the universe, not the center revolving around a third-rate star. It changed the way everyone thought about When Darwin definitively identified our place still taking time for a lot of people to swallow But inch by inch, these prejudices about where and what our purpose is and so forth are being The science of nuclear fission and nuclear the theory that we are sort of universally away with it. But the dark side is, the unintended consequence our heads, the potential for destruction of war in this way. That's the threat. And when people start saying, well, look, nuclear weapons, because you're not going You don't dare. We'll use our nuclear weapons on you. Something's changed most recently in all of It's outside the range of all the books I've It's a whole new thing. I guess you have to work through all the combinations, with the one that actually fits the reality There's at least 10 different things and I'm want to explore first. On the AI question, yeah, I'm trying not explicitly Every time I read something in history, I First of all, the broader outline of the super this historical pursuit, they understand it's of it. My second to last guest was Ilya Sutskever, is the big lab building this. He was basically the Szliard of AI, how Szilard was the first person to train a neural network Anyway, from that moment on, he was one of a nuclear bomb immediately as soon as the He saw this coming 10 years ago, scale this intelligent. I was reading through the book and so many One was a good friend of mine who works at And they train these models on GPUs, which calculations in parallel. And I was thinking about these engineers who the bomb, let's say they're working on the And it's this really esoteric thing, you're you're really needed for this specific thing. And he's in super high demand right now, he's machines run as efficiently as possible. You start looking and there's so many analogies I don't think there's much question that AI as nuclear weapons and nuclear energy. And it's scaring the hell out of a lot of their heads in the sand. And others are saying, let's live it around We've tried to do that with nuclear weapons But people have no idea what's coming, do Yeah. One thing I wanted to ask is -- Some of these I think Fermi said you could never refine other scientists saw it coming. And I was actually impressed by a few of them have the atomic bomb. Another one was, Russia is five to 10 years So I'm curious, what made some of these scientists of this technology and its maturity and what Is there some pattern you noticed among the technology? That's a good question. Well, the experience that I've had in working really are not very interested in history They're interested in the Now, where the work They'd have to devote quite a bit of energy Of course there have been a few. One thinks of some of the guys who wrote science and so forth about where we were going. And if you ask them, particularly later on already done, and I remember talking to a but he said, I would never be a graduate student because they've already done their best work. And he was one so he was talking about himself, It takes a certain mentality to do that. And maybe scientists aren't the best ones Alvarez told me, he said, you know, I was in the various drawers of the benches in the He said, one day I was poking around and I size of a Petri dish with some wires inside. He said, and I realized it was the first cyclotron. They just put it in a drawer. I asked, so where is it now? He said, it's in the Smithsonian, of course. Where else would it be? I talked to the guy who invented the first He was an engineer at one of the big telephone He said, the first laser is supposedly in They got one in the lab and I took my first You want to see it? I said, God, of course. We went to the credenza in his dining room little box. Inside it was basically a cylinder of aluminum he opened up and took out a man-made ruby surrounded by a very high-intensity flash That was it. It was this beautiful, simple machine. He said they didn't get the right one. I said, why didn't you give them the right He said, they didn't ask me. He was angry all his life because he wasn't It went to the theoretician to first theorize there it was. When you were interviewing the scientists, work? They'd been down the road so far, they really What they did think about was they regretted There were some who were hawks and patriots, But most of them had tried in the years since nuclear weapons, eliminating nuclear weapons. It was a problem for them. When the war was over, these were mostly graduate for this program. The average age at Los Alamos was 27. Oppenheimer was an old guy, he was 39. These were young guys who had been pulled They wanted to get back to the university By and large, they did and Los Alamos, just Teller was horrified, he wanted the bomb program hydrogen bomb. It was going to be his bid for history just bomb. Teller's was going to be the hydrogen bomb. Over the years, after that work was done, one by one anyone else who'd helped him work Originally, he said it was a Polish mathematician who really came up with the basic idea for He took it to Teller and Teller came up with Then together, they wrote a paper which was But by the 1980s, Teller was saying, "Ulam Nothing." Which wasn't true. It was his piece of history because he was work. They didn't talk so much about their personal I was a child in the Second World War. I was eight years old in 1945. So many young men had been killed on all sides It was a kind of a strange, peaceful time Cars couldn't get tires, they were rationed. Cars couldn't get gasoline, it was rationed. So the streets were empty. We played in the streets. Meat was rationed, so we lived on macaroni You got four ounces of meat a week per person That was kind of wonderful and peaceful, and But in at least one house in almost every flag or drape hanging with a gold star on That meant that someone in that family, a And I was a smart little kid, I understood I was reading newspapers by the time I was It was the strangest time of darkness and We didn't know until 1943 if we were going It was scary for a while up front, the war We sort of set Japan aside. Our government did until the war in Europe But it took a while for the United States out planes at the rate of one a day or more. Churchill famously said when Pearl Harbor into my hands." And he explained later what he meant was that And I know we can win now because America's British could have put together. So it was a peaceful time, but it was a very My mother died when I was an infant so I understood Do you remember when the bombs dropped? By 1945, we were so pissed off at the Japanese. We had destroyed their air force, we had destroyed The population of Japan was down to about kind of stuff, buckwheat and weeds and whatever And yet they wouldn't surrender. And they still had a million men on the ground They only had about a year's worth of bullets We knew that much, but that's a long time With that in mind, and because they felt that Eastern Front, because it had basically fought We didn't win the war in Europe, the Russians We didn't enter the war on the ground until moving forward against the German forces that But the Japanese just wouldn't surrender. You could read the documents about the bombs. General George Marshall, who was leading the this idea that maybe if we could use these kill any Japanese defense that was there, and surrender. But from the Japanese point of view, as it won the war. They contributed to winning the war, but they What won the war was when Stalin finally was bombs. He was half convinced these were American We were feeding the espionage to the Soviet waste a lot of time on something that didn't When the news came back from Hiroshima and he called Igor Kurchatov in and said famously, You have all the resources of the state at Give us the bomb as soon as you can." But up until then, he wasn't so sure. He had told Truman at Potsdam that they would on the 15th of August. Truman was trying to get him to agree to invade Then when word came from New Mexico that the middle of the Potsdam conference, Truman then as possible because he figured the bombs would enough of Japan to divide the country the He didn't want a Soviet zone, an American He knew we could do better with the Japanese But Stalin, having heard that the bombs really of Manchuria to the 8th of August between I found it very interesting that the conventional firebombing raid of the war, on the 14th of of their surrender negotiations. The air force wanted to get credit for winning who were advancing down from Sakhalin Island inward from Manchuria. So our bombing was in northern Japan. It was a way of telling the Soviets, back Then the Japanese military leadership, which the last Japanese, the 100 million, they called futile. With the fresh Soviet army coming into Manchuria, in from the west to the south, they were surrounded But the bombs had their effect. The Japanese emperor used the bombings of politics for the first time in Japanese history. He had always been a spiritual figure, but arrangements. He stepped forth and said, we must do it for And in his final imperial rescript on the the people by radio, he said a new and most the unthinkable and we must now lay down our So the bomb had its effect, but it wasn't A lot of Americans said, thank God for the The actor Paul Newman was a friend of mine a two-man Navy fighter bomber training for He said to me once, "Rhodes, I'm one of bomb because I probably wouldn't have come And a million men said that. And the truth is, there were so many Japanese that even the killings of the two bombs would For the first time in the history of war, War II than had ever been killed in a war War was beginning to become what it has since We were talking near the beginning about whether been built at all and in the case of the nuclear sufficiently obvious. But one question I have, seeing the history or not for some conspiracy to just hold it there's some group of scientists somewhere phenomenon or technology that decides that One area I think this might be plausible is they just shut up about it. Given the study of this history, do you think I don't think it's very likely to take bioweapons I remember talking to a biologist, one of until DNA came along, and I asked "How'd He said, "Well, it's molecules." So from his perspective, it wasn't very different. But we were talking about the question of agents. He said, nature has had millions of years things you can imagine. The odds of anybody in a laboratory coming small. I took that with great comfort. I went home and slept that night. And I think he's probably right. Evolution has done such a job. We're still digging stuff out. I mean, it's just amazing how much of our natural world that we adapted it and simplified That's still going on in all sorts of ways. I hope that's the case. I was talking to a biologist and he was explaining which is this AI program that models that run billions of different permutations of And you can find smallpox, but it binds 100 I'll tell you a story, which I don't think Back in the 60s the Russians proposed a world-scale to the UN. And they said, we'll contribute a vaccine they can contribute. This program got going. It was run out of Geneva by the World Health health doctor, D.A. Henderson, a big old burly country boy looking once in Geneva and elsewhere. And by the late 1970s, the last case of smallpox, spread among humans and therefore was of all get rid of. Because if there are reservoirs in the natural will be a problem. If it's also something that's carried around to deal with. But if it's just humans, then all you have signs of smallpox. In fact, you need everyone around them to and the disease can't spread. And that's the method that they use to eliminate And then in the 90s, when the Soviet Union learned, as we all did, although it wasn't secret lab still operating that the Russian from the world so that everybody, except people this purpose, would not be immune and a bacteriological of war. D.A. was so incensed. He took this story to our government and we health business to work on biological warfare. And he did for the last part of his life to we hope, closed down. So that scenario is not outside the bounds But generally speaking, biological warfare could be infected as well, if not your war Much like poison gas, which used to blow back it to their horror. It never was a terribly good weapon of war. Plus Hitler's experience of using gas in the to use it in the second. So that's part of it. Speaking of secret labs, you've written so the hydrogen bomb, and the Cold War and so Is there a question you have about any of in but you haven't been able to get the answer Over the years, it's slowly leaked out. The latest thing I discovered is that from of like a dumbbell, more spread out. There's a picture of Kim Jong-un looking at perfectly obvious that it's a real bomb because I didn't know that until just a year or so But sooner or later, everyone tells you at And then is there anything you've learned The only thing I didn't put in the book, rightly that were on the original Fuchs documents When the Soviet Union collapsed and the scientists the interest of promoting its service to the had published a historical piece about their And they included a picture of the sketch of the shells of this multi-shelled implosion And when the scientists realized that the a great hue and cry and said, that's in violation They said, we have to pull all the issues And they did. But I had a very enterprising assistant in And he said, I think I know where I can find And he jumped on the night train from Moscow there. And they said, no, of course not. We pulled that. And then he thought, wait a minute, where's It was across the street. And he went across the public library. And they said, yeah, we have the journal. And handed it to me. He made a copy and gave me one. But when I realized that I had this, I never That's the only one, though. That is a wise thing to do. One of the final questions. A lot of times people use the phrase, we need If it's some new technology or something. When you hear that, do you think that is a Or does it make sense to use that terminology? No. It's been used so many times over the years But Manhattan was a very special time and The basic science was in hand. Oppenheimer once said in his funny way, we 1945. In a sense, it was a vast engineering program. There was some basic physics, but very little. It was mostly using Nobel laureate level physicists with the precision of a Swiss watch that weighed And they did a beautiful job considering the They solved some problems that I don't know How do you make plutonium explode without All of that. But most of these problems aren't like that. Nobody was starting a startup with some investment This was a government project, and it was And if you divulged the secret, you'd go to A lot of the parameters of what they were It's remarkable that 600,000 people worked Do you say 600,000? Yeah to ask you. Truman, when he became president, he had to He didn't know about it, right? I don't know how many people were working of thousands of people are working on it. The vice president doesn't know about it. He only learns about it as president. How was it possible that with so many people know that the atom bomb is in the works? How did they keep that so under wraps? One of Roosevelt's several vice presidents a bucket of warm piss. Can you note, Kennedy had a saying, I'm against Yes, well, interesting for me. Roosevelt wanted to keep it a secret and so They didn't want the word to get out. They didn't want the Germans to get ahead And what was the vice president for? He was to sit around in a waiting room in case, he hit the jackpot. He was just at the right time because Roosevelt So from their point of view, he didn't need It was the need-to-know thing again, it was And of course, as soon as he became president, together with Truman and filled him in on Truman had some inkling because he was a crusading waste in war. And if he heard about some industry that was pockets or whatever, he would go visit their And he was ready to go to Hanford, Washington, were doing. But Stimson, the Secretary of War at the time, elder statesmen of the era, said, "Mr. Vice I guarantee you that what is happening is Please don't go." And he said, "If you say so, Mr. Stimson, So he knew a little bit, but he didn't know And I don't think that helped. I don't know how much Roosevelt understood He was not a scientist. Truman was not even a college graduate, he A well self-educated guy. One of the senator's once said, every time a book, Truman's name is always there. The senator said I think he read everything It's partly that there wasn't any way to communicate call long distance unless somebody died, basically. Tell someone they had a long distance call Or a man, for that matter. You thought your son was probably dead in So the communication was more limited to be But even so, it's extraordinary. But was the culture different in that the frowned upon than it is now? I can't remember in my entire life a more We children gathered together pieces of aluminum about the only place you could get aluminum and took them to school so they could use We collected this bacon grease from cooking in cans because it had some application to We collected newspapers for the same reason. The Boy Scouts during the Second World War collect the fibers that come off milkweed it was used in place of kapok to line life They collected 500,000 tons of milkweed fluff We were all consumed with winning this thing, all, as I said earlier, before around 1943. Of course, there was a black market and people so they didn't have to live on some more macaroni But despite those changes, people were very, could to win the war. Speaking of elder statesmen, by the way. Who, since the development of the nuclear not necessarily the U.S. and not even necessarily to the stability and peace? It depends on what period you're talking about. There's no question that Oppenheimer's advice good. I don't think anyone except the Oppenheimer has ever found a better way of thinking about understands how to build them. And that really was Oppenheimer. I don't mean he deluded anybody. He just led them straight down the path. All these engineers and industrialists who men, men who wouldn't have been easily convinced the right way to go. So he, up until he was forced out of government the Air Force's favorite bomb, and they found destroy him. I talked to one of the scientists who was never the same after the security hearing He was one of [unclear]'s smiling public It really devastated him. That basic insecurity he had as a Jew in America he became the director of the Institute for essays. But I don't know. The leader that I've fallen into more and He tried to figure out a way to bring the weapons. He and Robbie taught Oppenheimer the ideas and he and Robbie later, were the ones who that is now CERN where they built these new With the idea in mind that at the very least we remember what things were like for the People were living on crusts of bread and They really were. And particularly people who worked for the worth anything. That's what I saw when I went back there in The money wasn't worth anything. Their salaries weren't being paid. In the midst of all of that, Europe needed And of course, there was the Marshall Plan, And the help it gave to Europe when it needed But Bohr wanted to make sure, and Robbie wanted were tapped to go off somewhere and build And they invented this international laboratory where they could do basic physics and where the kind of exciting thing that good science side of the whole thing. Let's face it, it more or less worked. The French had to have the bomb, you know, They need their lovers, they need their bombs. The British had to have the bomb because they They'd worked with us all during the war, uranium and from any new developments along And most of all, because the British Empire War, and Churchill was determined to get the fall away and wouldn't get to sit at the table So they had the typical reasons for getting because of the prestige, or because you have the bomb. That's North Korea, that's Iraq. Its attempt, it didn't get there. That's Pakistan and India. We, because of Germany. The Soviets, because of us. By and large, the countries that did go toward were afraid of another country having the And everyone else stood back and said, well, somebody comes calling here in South Korea and share your knowledge of how to make energy There's easily another three hours of questions I can't say I want to be respectful of your hour I've taken, but I want to be less than So I guess the final question that we can odds do you put on a non-test nuke going off? A nuke going off in anger? That's the way I usually put it. I think the odds are high. Over 50% in the next 50 years? I wouldn't put a number on it, but it's higher than 10%. And that's high enough if we're talking about There was a period when people in the field a little regional nuclear war between India the point where they realize you've got to The same guys who did the nuclear winter studies at nuclear winter world scale war using the And they found out that that would be even had only one dimensional atmospheric models. Then they said, well, what would a small regional So they simulated a war between India and sized, 15 kiloton nuclear weapons over the And what would follow from that? And it turned out as the model develops, you develop that even that small in exchange, bombs, about a megaton between the two countries, burning cities to spread smoke around the They figured in the end that there would be themselves and the fires. But then over the course of the next several of starvation because you would have the same century when there was an interim of rather was freezing hard in July in New England and And a mass of people died worldwide during Like the flu epidemic of 1918, everybody seems I don't know where our memory goes with these Therefore even a small so-called nuclear war to engage us if it ever goes off. So we're still in a very precarious place. And as long as any country in the world has be. There is a sword of Damocles over our heads. That has been the price of nuclear deterrence. It isn't necessary that that be the price. It's possible to have nuclear deterrence without leaders, particularly in totalitarian and So the odds, I don't know, but there's no sooner or later. And these machines, these weapons that we machines. We built, put them together. We can take them apart. We can put the ore back in the ground if we We don't have to live with this. I think we're in a big, wide, long transition. Maybe the world scale problem of solving global see that if they work together. Here I am saying there could be a good outcome Well, there was a good outcome from the telephone. There was a good outcome from television, to have to learn to handle dark sides better. Maybe that's the last thing to say on this Yeah, that's a sound note to close on. The book is The Making of the Atomic Bomb. Unfortunately, we didn't get a chance to talk when your next book comes out, we'll get a didn't get a chance to talk about. It's been a true honor, and an incredible The stories, the insight. It was really wonderful. Thank you so much for your time. My pleasure.