Hi, I'm Rick Steves, back with more This time, It's Salzburg. Thanks for joining us. Salzburg is forever smiling to the tunes of Mozart Thanks to its charming Old Town, splendid Baroque churches, one of Europe's largest and so many great Salzburg feels designed to keep In Salzburg we'll explore enjoy Mozart in a palace, and relax Then we'll settle survive a mountain luge run, and cruise to one of the jewels of Austria's Lake District. Sitting in the center of Europe From our home base in Salzburg, into the Salzkammergut Lake Hallstatt, and the town by the same name. Salzburg is steeped in history. In the year 700, its Bavarian to the local bishop to defend and expand Salzburg remained an independent until it surrendered Thanks to and its knack the city managed to avoid until World War II. While much on the far side of the river -- was destroyed the historic Old Town survived. The New Town has the big business but the Old Town, the Salzach River holds nearly all the charm With around prowling its cobbled lanes Salzburg can feel You don't go to Salzburg You go to experience a town is thoroughly enjoyable. Most of the happy tourists if not for the man Wolfgang Mozart spent much of his first 25 years one of the greatest Baroque For centuries, Salzburg's important church authorities They were combining both political The energetic Prince-Archbishop who ruled around the year 1600, had the greatest impact Wolf Dietrich counted the powerful Medicis and had grandiose Italian His goal -- to build This square, and Italian-style palace, was the centerpiece A series lead from here This fountain could be straight The Triton matches Bernini's Lying on a busy trade route connecting northern Europe Salzburg was well aware of the exciting things Things Italian were respected Some Northern artists even in order to raise their rates. Salzburg's cathedral, was one of the first grand north of the Alps. It's Sunday morning. The 10:00 mass is famous and today it's Mozart. Enter the cathedral, and you're immersed in pure Dona nobis nobis pacem Since it was built the church boasts particularly In good Baroque style, cohesive, creating a kind of that leads triumphing high above the altar. Nobis dona nobis nobis pacem pacem Music and the visual art The organ loft fills the church as Mozart, 250 years after his birth, with his musical genius. Nobis nobis pacem nobis pacem Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, who was the cathedral organist was born in this house in 1756. It was here that he composed For fans, it's almost But his later residence, across the river, on his life and times. The place is filled with scores of scores, portraits, insights into his family life and how the young prodigy was basically home-schooled The Mozart family to entertain Salzburg's This family portrait shows he was proud of his first-ever his father, also a fine musician and his mother, who died Nannerl called this portrait the best ever done Mozart spent a good part performing all over Europe. But throughout his youth, When he was 25 and moved to Vienna. Today, Salzburg's pride not in museums Salzburg is a world-class for live musical performances. Each summer it hosts But Salzburg is busy with over 2,000 in churches We're heading to hear a string quartet play Mozart performed for the prince-archbishop And this evening the twins quartet from Moscow play Mozart's The surrounding Mirabell are a favorite with locals Enjoying the garden, cathedral, it's easy to imagine how must have that reminded him as well as religious power. The Hohensalzburg Fortress towers 400 feet One of Europe's mightiest it dominates Salzburg's skyline. Access is quick and easy from Its cannons evoke and the power The courtyard of this hilltop community which could be self-sufficient The well dipped The square was ringed bakers, and craftsmen. Imagine how expensive this and it was never really That was the idea. The guys who paid for it would so foreboding, for a thousand years. Its ramparts provide the best Surveying the town, you can imagine Salzburg From the castle, take a stroll across the forested for a breezy respite and more commanding views. Set your sights on the spire and you'll find feasting and drinking. Those Augustinians the most popular monks in town for their rollicking Austria specializes And in Salzburg, there's no better place at the Augustiner Braustubl. On balmy summer evenings, has the ambiance as all generations gather under as they have for centuries to enjoy cheap food, good beer, and that special local coziness, called &quot;Gemutlichkeit.&quot; It's self-service. Peruse the food stalls. No shortage of meats, kraut, and salads. And the &quot;Steckerlfisch&quot; -- now that's Getting a beer is fun in itself. Buy your token, choose a mug. Two choices -- big and huge. Give it a rinse -- and fill 'er up. As is often the case in rowdy you share tables and make new friends. Old Salzburg's busy was and still is Amidst all the tourists its classy shops and traditional wrought-iron give it a touch of elegance. Pondering the old-time signs -- which were advertising when most shoppers you can almost imagine looking for a sturdy pair of or even The Sporer family has been and selling it from this for just over a hundred years. It's good to see how, in the midst purely local hangouts The regulars here know that there are enough to keep them coming back &quot;Obstler&quot; is apple and -- apple and pear. Okay. And it's very typical for this area. So this is apple and pear? Apple and pear, yes. Good. &quot;Zum wohl!&quot; &quot;Prosit!&quot; [ Laughing ] Ooh, that's good. You don't throw it down. You sip it, yes. And what is schnapps? Schnapps is So there's many different Yes, there are many fruits in Austria, almost everything. And when when you would After dinner, or you drink it beside a beer but this is after breakfast, [ Laughter ] We're always busy, traditional shop And way back was still practicing his scales, Salzburg's busy gave farmers the chance Today, the people of Salzburg for the reliably fresh Austria, with its Germanic is enthusiastic about fruits and vegetables. Public marketplaces And Salzburg's are part of this city's ingenious In the 13th century, Salzburg was plumbed which has brought water from nearby hills ever since. The stream, was channeled through town. The constantly flowing water provided fire protection, It was the harnessing of wind and water power that helped kick the economy and lift Europe out of These canals powered about a hundred water mills which were busily cranking Tucked away in the heart and abutting the rock wall is St. Peter's Cemetery. The graves are a collection of well cared for mini-gardens. It seems each plot is lovingly That's because in Austria, grave sites are rented, Rent bills are sent out If no one cares enough you're gone. Iron crosses were cheaper Rich guys' fine decorate the chapel walls. Wealthy as those guys were, when they ran out they were dug up, shipped out, and their fancy tombstones Salzburg's wealth Its name basically means, Its river is called not because it's salty, but because of the precious Salt, so precious in pre-refrigerator days, was a huge part all the way back There were major salt mines Salt could be shipped from here The banks ideal for strolling were once medieval tow paths. Cargo boats and be dragged back upstream Today, these riverside paths providing easy access If you'd like in a uniquely Austrian way, Salzburg is the ideal for spectacular countryside It's Austria's where &quot;the hills are alive&quot; and you're surrounded that has enthralled from Emperor Franz Josef This is Idyllic and majestic, it's a gentle land of lakes, and storybook villages rich in hiking and biking The countryside has plenty of farmhouse B&amp;Bs. Good ones, like this one give you a chance to experience the richness [ Horse whinnies ] The Weissacher family rents a couple of simple to supplement their farm income. They're popular who want the opportunity to learn to ride, and just get away from the intensity One fun way with a jolt of speed is on a &quot;Sommerrodelbahn.&quot; Throughout the region, ski runs earn their keep as luge courses. Enjoy the lake country view as you're dragged Then get set to fly. It's simple -- push to go, a treat for kids of all ages. We're heading two hours to my favorite on my favorite The tiny train station is from the postcard-pretty town by the same name -- Hallstatt. &quot;Stefanie,&quot; a boat, meets and glides scenically across the lake into town. Lovable Hallstatt is bullied onto a ledge between a mountain Apart from the waterfall Hallstatt is an oasis of peace. With the scarcity tall homes had their front door on the street-level top floor and their water entrance several floors below. The town, which originated is one of Europe's oldest, going back centuries There was a Hallstatt In fact, because of an entire age -- from about 800 B.C. is named If you dug you'd find Roman and pre-Roman from the ancient This cute little village was of a culture that spread Back then, salt was so precious and Hallstatt was, the &quot;place of salt.&quot; A steep funicular to Hallstatt's salt mine. It's one of many that offer tours. At the mine, meet their guide, and hike into the mountain. While this particular tunnel Hallstatt's mine claims to be In the tour, you'll learn Archaeologists claim that, people have come here A brine spring sprung here, Later, miners dug tunnels they dissolved it into a brine, which flowed the oldest hewn out of logs, and nearby towns, and still is, cooked until A highlight is riding from one floor down to the next, praying for no splinters. Through the centuries, Hallstatt was busy Since it had no road access, people came and went by boat. You'll still see the designed to carry heavy loads Herr Alfred Lenz makes from a 200-year-old The oar lock is still made Alfred claims is worth a day of vacation. And Alfred is not the only one The lake is a playground for visitors in rental boats, which come with two speeds -- slow and stop. Even though Hallstatt's wandering through town Pop into the fishery -- two men have a license of its plankton-fed much prized The town's decorative woodwork, a tradition which reflects the wealth While fires have been many houses go way back. This one dates from 1597. The Catholic church Its 500-year-old altars feature Hallstatt's St. Barbara, patron of miners, and St. Catherine, Lots of wood was needed to fortify and boil the brine Space in Hallstatt's was so limited about 12 peaceful before making way Many of the dug-up bones ended up in the bone chapel. Each of the several hundred has been lovingly named, The skulls resting on bibles [ Brass band plays ] While the bone chapel there's more life For generations, the traditional has entertained their town. Donate to the band, and a maiden gives you Restaurant Braugasthof, lakeside and under is just the place to try some They're cooked up and served with a nice And while you await you can feed the swans. Swans patrol the lake They're reminders of the 1800s, when the first Romantic-age discovered this region. Back then, made it their annual and today, it remains I hope you've enjoyed exploring with the high culture and the natural splendor of the Salzkammergut Thanks for joining us. Until next time, &quot;Auf Wiedersehen.&quot;