It would be better if more people understood and understood what authentic progress actually that it requires, understood the emphasis on way to solve a problem is to remove its reversing But the obviously market incentive is incentives on create new stuff. But as problems in a way that isn't a racket, right? the result of our previous problem solving. Today, I am rejoined by Daniel Schmachtenberger, Project and the co founder of where he and his colleagues have just written a is the topic of this long awaited Horizontally We talk about what is progress, the history narrative and whether progress itself for the wellbeing of the human species surprised to hear that this episode And in fact, I didn't even get to my his paper. Those are going to have to be think we have to understand the problems, and start asking questions about where do we And I think these conversations start to define the parameters of the Please welcome Daniel Schmachtenberger. Daniel my friend. Good to see you. Holy Gandalf, one part Zeus, one part surfer dude. You didn't mention Appalachia mountain guy. Oh, mountains out here. All right. Well, you look, the sun just came out. Like just a minute And there's a huge rainbow over right. As we're starting to talk. Wow. Yeah. The last podcast we did, verdant green outside your window. so we can't see it. Okay. Welcome back. That we had our last podcast, which the superorganism. And, and this is kind of of the core themes we talked about before between narrow boundary goals And, and that brought you to talk about versus real progress. And you have now concept. You're now referring to it as that is going to be the theme of today's I played a role in writing this paper is a our team wrote it. So what progress actually is, how we think about achieving them. If we are having narrowly that can be achieved while externalizing harm and we look at all of the goal achieving and not And for those that happen to make it through. war and not the species that go extinct farms or the cultures that are genocided bias of being able to say, you know, those are the beneficiaries of the progress of And so you can make a progress. Narrative, goals, even if they are driving rivalry it's not a great definition of progress. of progress. Less generously, it's And The way that humans think about what is what are our lives in service to in that way is we orient ourselves individually and collectively. Well. While I was waiting for you, I and it has different definitions depending on the betterment, and as a verb, as to develop So, so why don't you unpack a little bit in our cultural goals, our aspirations, our narratives, the stories of modern I think most everybody watching your show, think that the totality of things that are you know, other things aligned with primary that we consider the metrics of I think that people listening to your show definitions is not necessarily good for for nature that we depend upon a good definition across wealth classes, across global south, But we can just give a couple it mentioned both advancement and and it's kind of important to think about a technological thing with no definition Iteration of the iPhone is more technologically more capabilities, et cetera, than progress from the definition of advancement. question that science actually can't answer on Which is related to ought, not just is. And so something that is Connected to but outside of the is what is actually good. And so let's say that we screen time associated with phones corresponds to You can watch that as cell phones and as people spend more hours per day spend more hours on the ones that are more things and end up being more addictive, that body And so it's, it's more advanced. Is it better metrics that really matter, right? And if you look and you look at the conflict zones associated that's all part of the story of, is the There's no question that the, you right? Leading up to the world that Spring. Like leaded gasoline it was absolutely better from the perspective of Now, DDT killed mosquitoes. from the narrow definition of kills Super effective. And it was a great act figure out how to do this thing. Now, did the DDT ecocide at scale and human health effects at And did the leaded gasoline take a billion like 4X more violent? Yes, it did that too. And everybody knows from who's listening here private contractors, you know, so if, civilizational progress, then war right? Because if someone is addicted to purchasing, addicted to whatever, it leads to more treated through for profit processes. And so there who do very well at the primary metrics of school, So from the narrow definition of did this way S. A. T., sure. From did we raise contribute to a healthy society? And so the idea that humanity has been making if math from scratch on their own and they'd never get as far as Roman numerals, right? learn all of this knowledge and do things with There is progress Progress of capability of defined? You know, are they good goals is a, is a the idea that technology in particular is better and better along with the And That this is the best time to be you know, the state of man and nature, and mean. We have civilized ourselves. Everyone is to go back to the days before Novocaine. We have And we're right about to develop, you know, AI's exponential progress that it will bring about That narrative really took off following the enlightenment, the scientific revolution and the rapid changes And that corresponds with what you and it changed everything radically and rapidly for that much change that quickly, going from half where it had taken 200, 000 years to get here. I'm just wondering if, if the carbon pulse and follow this idea of progress. And if we wouldn't we would have thought of different ways, but as of the winners then this was all accepted, but happening to the planetary ecological situation So has there always been a critique of or so it's been diminished because or historically, what, what Okay, so I want to come back kind of formalized in modernity. Well before that, well before the carbon pulse. It's a pretty simple thing to state that The Losers of Wars don't And the history that is written by the continuous, creates a progress narrative because the winner won. It wasn't a bad thing that they won. And so savages with our colonialism, and it's actually naked barbarous savages are getting taught They were all illiterate, you know, and so we or culture, if not totally villainize it. And that goes along with the power conferred kind of a realpolitik, a real view of history Just study the history of conquerors. Genghis his life. And the estimates vary. 50 million is a well before industrial technology. There were this was cavalry. And he and his men killed Mind blowingly brutally, unnecessarily. And, you like 10 percent of the population of Asia are all addition to the amount of killing, the amount of the Hun, and then you look at Alexander the Great, you look at the progressive history of that, and that lived in more harmony with nature, that were If you actually look at indigenous the thing we call the beginning of civilization. somewhere around Babylonia, Mesopotamia, early Maybe now we say Gobleki Tepe, but like, it's very And it has to do with animal husbandry, and permanent settlements and the written have been here for a couple hundred they had worldviews and systems of medicine and And, you know, like a lot of things there, they and, and they didn't live. Old people didn't live right? Like, yes, infant mortality was high. But And Um, you'll notice that there's a reason why They stayed within one of the Dunbar numbers. it's that they had very strong reasons not to. Pretty much any definition of wisdom that embedded concept. Wisdom involves what not to where you could have some near term advantage, And so if you think about the the first one What do you mean by first one? was roughly something about 150, 150 to people have done kind of progressive Dunbar of people where different coordination And there are some that are smaller than that. But let's just take that one Up to that number, everybody can fit around a tribal council and all right? They can all hear each other really significant choice that's Everybody can know everybody. So if they're not anonymous strangers that I think saved my life. They're people that helped there. And so at the scale where everybody can everybody has some connection with everyone, our life will be bound to, there's a lot If it gets bigger than that and there's not time or capacity people will have to subordinate. And don't have a choice in. So, so in some senses, there's a negative social reciprocity potentially informs Well, it's that they had some insight that progress. And it was not betterment in the because it meant actually less less intimacy with everybody that Well, but for a lot of part, they were running up against limits populations necessarily because of the No, I think there were a lot of places tribes in the same place that ended up other. You can see this in the recent Iroquois Confederacy and like that. And they actually stayed in these separate bands or And they actually had things about restraint that for instance, when you look at the Indians of abundance was really high, right, because of the when they made technological advances, like in were rules To spend less, to use that efficiency So it was like an embedded anti Jevons right? It, that's a way to think about what this before. The Sabbath. Amongst other is a binding of a multipolar trap. It's a Which is, if anybody works on Sunday, they get ahead that they will end up You know, has to work on Sunday. So now we have time. Nobody enjoys it, but everyone No one can connect with their families, connect with the divine or anything else. that. They made it punishable by death, was it bound a multipolar trap for everybody. There's wisdom in that and that came from potlatch and let's get rid of this surplus, population. Let's not keep the surplus come war with us to take the stuff. Let's back into depending upon nature and Similarly, with the, we got better fishing then we'll collapse the fishing, the fishing our social structure and et cetera. So let's more time for art and lovemaking Right. And so the technological advance didn't reason, the same way that we talk about knowledge, could lead to using less only if you create law it, you just get return on investments of Maybe we'll explain that briefly for anyone that Well, maximum power principle is that but energy per unit time is what we're trying ecosystems self organize so as to better access for anything, cellular metabolism, So historically those organisms and energy per unit time had an adaptive about the relationship of authentic versus power as this conversation unfolds. But The thing I want to add is the just if for the first time and what maximum power Well, it the more technology that then they become so cheap and ubiquitous that So there's a rebound effect as we develop energy globally. And this you see in so many people who kind of understandably think. Couldn't technological advancement we could use less stuff and still have, The Jevons Paradox is a really key thing to out how to get copper more efficiently, Or you energy more efficiently. It also means that that that now the market input to a whole bunch of And so now you get a whole bunch of is that when a thing becomes more you use more. Use more of that plus all the other And as a consumer, as an individual, if I save spend that money at Home Depot or Walmart on, on So if, if we had the equivalent of you were mentioned before the native some Sabbath equivalent, some we can't fish then this technological innovation that we have So let's talk about You know, I think it's pretty the DDT are definitions of progress that for pretty terrible. And the same is true when it there's so many examples, like making food that If you consider food perishing a problem to of life we're supposed to relate with that and aware of biological things break down, which keeps us aware of the meaningfulness of So if you look at the emergence of fast food, more addictiveness and much less micronutrients physiologically, psychologically, still progress. And so I think that kind All right. There's a problem with talking about things that don't seem trying to make progress on solving global change for a minute. So the first paper on climate change, UNEP was created, United Nation Environmental global environmental issues and have climate change had a U. S. vice almost every kind of celebrity, you scientific databases and computational There's a trillion dollars in climate finance per etc. And the total amount of fossil fuel energy And there's a place where we just have to pause wait, so everything we've done towards climate It hasn't even slowed the increase in the the year before. We're continuing to grow So if you think about that for a minute, so we're going to make a hydroelectric dam and You know, flooding that whole area. It's and correspondingly birds. It's going the countries that were involved. Maybe would be worth it if it was stopping the oh, there's another source of energy, awesome. We'll use that energy and the fossil fuels energy They're both profitable to continue to use. And right? Like all the risk. of nuclear all the risk of nuclear power plants being able become nuclear volcanoes even by non nuclear all that risk, and it didn't And so you're like, okay, well, the way problem empirically is not working. And many of addressing the existing ones effectively at progress, right? But how much, how much of progress is is you know, a critique of GDP as Okay, let's go back to Genghis and France, because we were And we were pre carbon pulse. So it is not true that all of the tribal populations limited only by scarce food. That's part of and bigger populations are better and that There is no, when I said that earlier, not, not, you know, 000 years ago, but, but go on the, the archeology gets less which means it becomes more subject Because you have less data and so you So if you have a Hobbesian narrative that says but that same narrative is why we had Manifest colonialists to take over North America, to squalid savages and to civilize it so Like, was it, okay. You read quotes it was only considered a wilderness to them. We We considered it a beautiful paradise and it was only them that considered it full of interest in coming to understand the depth But it was progress because the winners wrote the didn't orient to its maximum size and maximum because it wanted to not train wanted to train the kids up It wanted to have not turn all of nature into but to, you know, have some deep Those cultures usually lost in war to Well, exactly. So what if there were and nine of them were peaceful in harmony with If there was only one tribe that was won. Won in quotes. This is a really important is Unless the person doing the tribal warfare, stopped them from even being able to develop starts in the group that starts investing in went and then what, and this played a role in to larger civilizations is once we're in the going to do much less well than larger numbers starting to do the offensive warfare thing, now People will have less say and they'll have will have to train and, you know, Military because that multipolar trap is important thing is we've talked about An arms race is a multipolar trap where weapons and multiple reentry vehicles and more we have to. Do that. Cause what if the other that is our own risk of dying at all those things So the arms race is a multipolar trap. doing is driving massive externalities as a we have to extract the resources, even other guy, because if we don't, The other guy is going to destroy them all first advantage to beat us. So the multipolar trap is, about climate change very effectively right at a country level that has the rule of law it would put them so radically behind everyone economics is converted to military power and No one wants to slow down their slow down their synthetic biology. So it's we've talked about this before, but just mentioned, which is the multipolar trap is usually initiated by a psychopath. And in our tribal past, sub dunbar that would inhibit the potential power of a more and then I'll say that. The, not everyone wants to go children die in war so that they That is not everybody's desire. The the, I can't imagine anything, Anyone not who just couldn't win at it. Because they that is not oriented on conquest And so not everybody wants to do that thing, there's something wrong with them. There's but now everybody else has to do something right? And yeah, this is very much like the Right? The, the cancer is not just another express itself in a slightly different its own individual expression. The other the liver cells and the blood cells and the but they all have a shared genome and they're and they're constrained by that, and Like, a kidney outside of a body is not that of the cells are constrained by being a part they get to have individual expression, but that an obligation. The cancer cell, I'm going to do my thing and I'm going replicate faster. And if it does right? Then the rest, the rest of the body, or that thing will kill the rest of the system, And that's the thing is that amazing progress at consumption for, for its own goals. Yes, it's, it's the, there are the most number of copies of itself Oh, boy. So certainly in the some people that view humanity as a cancer cell. And based on the last five minutes you're individuals that through some positive feedback the wisdom and restraint of small groups. And that has created a lot of these Nobody can argue that we. That there are a lot of cultures because Alexander or Caesar or and their memes and their cultures and their genes didn't make it and it that there, that does not mean that more sustainability with nature. It means they even if they were good at war individually, right? Because some people might take objection, violence, effective scaled coordinate unavoidably, of the people that scaled empire with et cetera. We are genetically and mimetically and I think that's a profound insight, say we're also the descendants of those Yes, there is. So, I'm going here that I don't have the data to support. I, which I know you by now well enough these But but go on. The data for this is not available that I have seen because it's ancient and our things. So Our early toolmaking, call it stone tools and you know, then fire, right? Like very early that didn't start with sapiens, right? That that. It was a pretty radical change in and because now the selection criteria were corporeally built into our body, it was the our body does extracorporeally, where the ability Then evolution's advancement of capabilities or whatever kind of selection a really significant asymmetry that did not exist natural evolution. In natural evolution, the Something that produce a bunch of useless theory. They produce a bunch of useless mutations, selected for those mutations pressures, whether or whatever, or just you know, transcription All of the beings. There's an even distribution of also a co selection process. So the mutation that or a slightly stronger jaw or slightly faster get like a massive jump like we get with So let's say there is a mutation that leads to a at their niche. Let's say it's a predatory mutation pressures are happening on the things slightly better at camouflage, have slightly And so neither of them are getting a massive having similar kinds of very, very gradual Predator had one first. So it's going to start of course going to be statistically eating the as a result, the inbreeding of the faster genes So both the distribution of mutation and co symmetry of power that is maintained across the relationship, right? It's the predator with the right? As it gets the ability to digest out how to put out more volatile oils or But your point here is that it was And as a result, you're actually not getting concentrations of power. You're getting of power is what's allowing there to And it's why you don't get that what is good for right? Of course, this lion eating but lions as a whole and gazelles as a If the lions went away, the gazelles They would have the weaker genes et cetera. If the gazelles went away, the lions it looks like competition and even they're symbiotic. But the key reason does In the same way that like fighting in your weight class is a thing, original definition of competing means something someone where they get a little bit better and me to get a little bit better, you know, But if I am going to fight with a guy that's just right? Like, I don't get better from that. kind of progress. The progress does involve navigate the situation. And so if you, the first question And then, then we would say progress of what, across what metrics across progress that is progress for some that is totally some depends upon is a very narrow definition will eventually kill its own host, it's a actually long term even viable for the, for the interest of where the So I can begin to surmise why you and your team this paper. This is a central chasm in Yeah. So we've talked before that the different global catastrophic risks just in We could really mess the biosphere up just just because of mining waste, just because to oceans and dead zones and coral. Like we side and the pollution side, catastrophic risks And by the way, all those things you that are currently not priced in our And what is the cost of the Great Barrier Reef? the value of healthy soil microbes be? Well, But like everything dies without air and the of air is nothing is because everybody still has differential access to it. So it's just no need means that it gets damaged through industrial through burning things where you're using cetera. And there is a slight decline in oxygen globally higher in the oceans. Ocean oxygen has Obviously, the O in the CO2 is, there was carbon, there were hydrocarbons that were getting So you're, of course, you're going to have those not just the most important things like. The soil that we are rapidly destroying that are the most But if you look at people's deathbed reflections fortunate when I was growing up, my mom took And I got to hear a lot of deathbed reflections the highlights of what people say was worth it. had nothing ever to do with anything And everything it had to do with was the time that they were not an agent of producing, etc. It had to do with their time their time in nature, their time market can't supply those things very And it emphasizes reward So I don't want to diverge too much from from I mean, there's, there's there's multipolar if there were a billionaire listening to this, but saying I'm powerless to change my Bitcoin fiat currency lead over my competitors So I see the world as being very messed up I'm doing the thing that is best for my is. How do we get beyond those, I call them the this this trap that you're describing. So the idea of an externality that we're building or a whatever to do something. We're building it assess that in a narrow metric, whatever that is, and the supply chains that make it and the power They affect other stuff other than the stuff being negative. We call those externalities. and that's an important thing to consider. to forecast externalities because the world is so So all we can do is, you know, make something that the problem, work to solve it. And the continuous for and part of progress. This is gibberish. self motivated gibberish for the people who did or didn't want to admit them because they were And then later say it's impossible to predict what Dow that just got a 10 billion 10 billion. lawsuit pay like 10. 3 billion, which is significant. And showed that not only is the, is PFAS in every drop in, you know, on all the continents, and And is it not just affecting human health, the soil microbes and the phytoplankton in ways no biological processes because it was built doesn't break down, right? To resist corrosion Okay, so just I think it might have actually been Minnesota, your state. Just at costing $20 billion if they were gonna try to out. So this $10 billion from the primary producer was something like 16 trillion a year to do total So the entire global GDP to remediate one class chemicals and mining chemicals and everything Okay. So stay with me. I'm trying to construct turns out that investigation showed that that was ever put into the environment or They hid the science. It had caused was just like a direct coverup and the same the people who were inventing leaded gas It was known to be toxic, et cetera. And And if that's true, and I believe you that it? Because of short term gain for them and story? Yeah. So the short term gain is, Hey, if I stop this engine knocking thing and Right? And I own the patent on this tetraethyl needed by everything. We're going to make to be that bad for people. It'll be in you know, it'll be the parts per There are lots of times where we actually know the industry, whatever, ahead of time, and do it There are other times where we just don't try because if we put money and resource into and the other competitor doesn't, they're They're going to later be able to say, the money that I put into seeing those harms now how do I get a return on that money that I do the project, it's probably so much later And so at minimum, there's a kind of we do this box checking plausible deniability to privatize the gains and socialize the company that played a major role in And the fact that teen body dysmorphia and issues and everything went up, they don't have no incentive to really limit their privatized Let me interrupt you one more time, which is So, like you said, in the day of to make a lot of money and they thought, Oh, well, this will be dispersed. It won't be that big work at corporations that are paying attention and climate and oceans and PFAS and social They have to be in these boardrooms louder. The externalities are, are more different question that I would love to back to your first question. Keep it's exactly the next place to go. Okay. One is about. dark triad traits, and sociopathy. which are basically the two types for in the system. Whoa. Can you briefly describe dark but maybe you could describe it. Dark triad is the three, And the narcissism and Machiavellianism. And then where sadism is added as a fourth. And these psychology that can co occur. And so we're not meaning narcissistic personality disorder within It's sets of traits that people can the same person in different environments put a really lovely person in a terrible these traits or they're probably going to die, And so, You know, people can look this up more, but of their own entitlement, their own importance, that kind of thing. Sociopathy is a lack caring to take their worldview, not really Not feeling remorse if they end up being where And Machiavellianism is the ability to think right? So if that Machiavellianism is in service expanding goals that are not that attuned to But those also make Great leadership qualities for the multipolar trap version of institutional structure where we have corporations and things like that relative to 500 corporation, I mean, it's a great example, right? So to give personhood rights to Black people and the end of slavery. It was for personhood persons. Black people were not considered in what was so obviously to give personhood then used to give personhood rights to the legal advantage of being able to have all of And I think in the first year after the Supreme Court saw like, Something Amendment associated with black 350 cases associated with businesses and person, the entity that is the public So is a corporation an institutional equivalent of a, saying. A corporation does not, a corporation is Right. The, the operating agreements, the whole operational machinery does not depend on any And if you lose this assembly line worker or with a kind of market equivalent all the way up the cybernetic entity kind of controls itself not controlled by anybody in particular So it protects the directors from legal even though, of course, it couldn't do it you have a fiduciary responsibility to extraction. And so. And of course, that It cannot. It's not a it's not a sentient but it's not a sentient thing. So it i. e. Machiavellianism. It does have my own be the market dominator. That's narcissism. And it is actually legally required to maximize the directors of the organization. So the idea is not true, but it's a useful idea of those who And the people who benefit by causing all of the gains to write the narrative in the same way the history was written by the winners of war affect the narrative of the world. You see this campaigns, but if if an idea is spreading, who is and who's paying for the commercials and who's targeted ads and who's, so the ideas that spread selection of the goodness of the idea, they Interests that want those ideas to spread. Duh, right? We know this. This is how political This is how propaganda works. This is how, you right? There's a lot of money that goes into So there are a lot of ideas that are marketing terms of power. So the dominant narrative is And that's why when we were in the age of generous of us to bring this colonialism in the age of spreading Christendom through Christendom to all of the non Christians was In the same way that, like, when we talk about phases, there were people like, you know, Jared but there were people coming from the McLuhan coming from the Mumford School who were saying, people's attention and you're going to race And unlike where TV commercials did you now get to have them interact with it sticky you monetize their attention. to engage their attention more They're going to be things that make the person out group identity or whatever it is. And this is no one was saying that then. It was being said, and researched and pursued because, and then known it was going to polarize society and break So. The, we couldn't have possibly known as am I saying that you can anticipate everything? Of times better than we even attempt to do now? a new technology, say, could we proceduralize not just the intended set of effects but thinking through if this technology What is the pressure of that on all the environmental effects of that? What et cetera effects? What if people use what other thing is it obsoleting? How You just kind of think it through. Now called yellow teaming. Red teaming is, which is you're wanting to do something. You you can do to see how it might fail, how Yellow teaming is if it succeeds, where might team? Well, yes, you're not going to predict and then you keep watching, and when you notice them. Now, in the same way all this was the buildup, the people in a front of the race, could stop the multipolar trap, but they don't want to because So they use the multipolar trap as a story of plausible deniability. The littler guy but someone who's at the leading edge of same energy and same sophistication to there's a situation that if my country becomes which means develops better weapons, It So now they have to do the same thing. And increasing weapons forever and increasing budgets contractors. It's actually great for GDP and just say how let's make an agreement to all spend Right. Proportionally less such that relative well, we can't possibly do that. We couldn't way to enforce it, etc. And we're saying that wanted to stop this thing from advancing that has We couldn't possibly because there's so many blah, blah. Therefore, the only possible answer is too bad. If you look at the resources we invest resources and actually creating healthy diplomacy Neighbors and really tried to create global And so the billionaire that says, well, I don't know like I'm too small, right in the, it's a hundred this little. Guy, I couldn't solve the problems pick up all the game theory tokens I can The optionality of that is what's best for spent figuring out. How to gather all those understanding how to do lobbying, understanding et cetera. And look at how much time you spent energy, time, thoughtfulness, resource to solving not put enough time to say that you couldn't This is what Jeremy Grantham's big point I've talked to him about it subsequently. He their attention to the ecological crisis. and many other things, because they haven't. They, it's a big drive of his, and some others, and And yet, I've encountered so many more people environment. But like you just said, they plan to for now they're focused on their investments and can give more to good causes in the future, which You, you could understand someone just articulated that winner's right. The bizarre and scary and complex right I might as well just try to be a winner, Yes. And I think there is a, I mean, that is definitely It's definitely the state of like And just financial markets. Now. If you look at that path of winning and it's not even a win for you, that And then if you look at that, talk about like what the, the biggest Nobel Prize solve for humanity, oftentimes like cure for of different types of cancers from 1950 till Lots of rise in endocrine in different kinds of childhood cancers, and that rise in those cancers, in terms of year carcinogenic chemicals put into the atmosphere. In the database of the American Chemical Society, and you look at the huge number of them that through the VOCs and the paint and the walls and the agricultural chemicals. The percentage The other ones are. Neurotoxins, or correspondingly, the increased rate of and neurodegenerative disease, of follow those curves quite closely. Is that Yes. The other factors are also the result of like the processed foods that mess up the microbiome and micronutrient In, in your paper, you make a, a, a point and crop yields and food and but there's a whole lot of Yeah. Yeah, so I want to stay with When, if you look at all of the scientific advancements trying to cure how do we stop putting carcinogens in you know, where there are continuous studies Medicine that show there's roughly 300 are carcinogenic in the breast milk of nursing Why don't we work on getting those out? have are anthropogenic. They're caused by solve cancer in abstract. Like, let's start solving is reversing something I can't patent that. I can't market that very patent that doesn't address the upstream causes at But if there's a thousand of these entities the high road, and why are we Let's do it a different way. It's those other 10 corporation structure. And it's just like If we build new types of energy, but we don't that binds the use of the other energy, we'll just More energy means more GDP means more, you interests of power. So creating a new thing is awesome. Is not actually solving the problem you will just get both and it'll end up being Similarly, like the organic food movement has been who shop at the Whole Foods and buy organics and And yet, More pesticides have been used every it's not actually decreasing total pesticide of pesticides to conventional agriculture, to the So it just, okay, it's like, great, we will existing market and get more total market actually binding the things that have if somebody does that thing, interests of everyone if there were nine tribes that were really arrangement and trade and whatever with each tribe moving in another direction and they did they could possibly have peace for everybody So, like I said, We have a, the, the of power competition selects for people and other people who are complicit with for. And is that dynamic that you Watiko, Koyaanisqatsi, the superorganism? Yes, the generative dynamic can humans get conditioned by their environment, right? I grew up in a tribal culture. culture. I grew up in a city in the I'm being conditioned by the environment I'm my technological capabilities, So, so the civilization is conditioning the identity, value, and behavior of in turn, creating more of the types of And so there is a feedback loop between the whole influencing the individuals, and there So let's talk about theory of hyperagents for before, but we'll do it again quickly. The Caesars were obviously different types of worked for them or they killed. And the you robber barons and industrialists and whatever of that how much power they have consolidated And they're. And it's not arbitrary. There them pursue that and be good at it. So agency, the stuff we want to do. You could say that a returns on agency. They want to do the things They want to, and they, they want to use their This is a great question, right? Towards what end is You billionaire friends who are like, well, The money gives me the ability to to build this kind of tech or that kind It gives me the ability to influence optionality token. So I'm just going to keep the maximum freedom and ability to do one of the reasons is that One of the reasons is their own fear of the history books forever, whatever, right? um, personal expansion of power. So a hyper agent maximizes state that return on capital can be return are hyper investors who are really good at but are not using that to influence the world to a Right. Like Warren Buffett was not trying to the world. He was a hyper investor, not really money personally than Buffett ever did, but through the influence of a lot more total So Hyper agency is the more fundamental agency. There are people who are also good at it. And maybe they become like gangster or something. But the people And that's through both the influence of technology. And that can be social technology, like writing laws and influencing capital. which The rise of Nazism or Mao or whatever. Right. So So the kind of tier one hyperagents, the world are not just oriented to maximize it. And If you look at the distribution of like empathy, they'll usually follow You'll have most people are here, they have you know, kind of average. There are bodhisattvas and there are sociopaths on the other side, Machiavellianism, how good someone And there will be most people are are really amazing strategists There is a kind of a naive sociology that human traits and tries to explain the and it doesn't work. And it's because if you look influencing the world, it doesn't have a Gaussian The power law distribution means a few influence. That's true in money. It's the differential between the top wealthiest get more and more extreme. And the graphs of money from 1960 to 2000 to now are I think it's something like the top money than the bottom 4 billion people currently. But does that power law also work within the top 1 percent where 80 percent have, or 20 percent is a lot of people. 8 people having more wealth than 4 billion people terms of military power. Not that many people of media power. This is true in terms of, you technological innovation capabilities, is that and so people at the top of the power civilization much more than everybody the center of the bell curve of And in ancestral times, we still but we didn't have the energy you know, 10, 000 years ago with 150 people there is only so much endosomatic energy that an And so it's the, it's the scale of. coupled with this giant dollop economy a couple hundred years ago that They didn't have the same Gaussian distribution. the people who are at the top of the power law not at the center of the bell curve of They're usually like two standard deviations to more driven and motivated towards business. Propaganda and long range strategic just to interject there, did those did our structures self select both, right? Someone is born into structures. Someone who desire. It's a particular type of desire is good at it and can win enough win lose it. and can drive enough externalities So they are, the current systems are selecting for but then those people in turn change the systems which is just like evolution. Is the does it niche create to make more of So we are both being shaped by the niche other thing is that it doesn't just that looks like somebody gets to a high position they change laws, they do, they remove Glass they interpret the 14th amendment as corporate the, the L'Oreal case or whatever as to do So, The people who can change the they decide that bailouts for the fail and golden parachutes made sense. is good at war and then they innovate at the people who are in those top positions are not They also are obviously invested in that very successfully doing something they have a maximum incentive I did a, frankly, a few months ago, I forgot what and in my research, it said that around 10 percent but that that is probably an underestimate not going to answer those surveys in the way But are you saying that, okay. 10, 000 years ago, were not that combination of traits. It's, how the Spartans raised their kids. The, you know, the, they're kind of famous stories if it looked like it had any deformities that it was killed right away. Infanticide kind of, you know. maximally dominant. And then And, you know, the, the process where they had to kill adult slaves with tools. they're dead, right? Only the ones that make you know, kind of vicious capability. If you're in a Spartan society, is that conditioning, the Gaussian Yeah. If, yeah. If you are in a. And this is why the things that we think of as human nature is you can have the Janes, who across I met some Janes when I was in India. They Yes. And so it's clearly not just a because you can have an entire culture doesn't hurt bugs. And then you can Liberia, or whatever, where if you make You've hacked people apart with machetes. So our culture is recursively building exhibit dark triad because of incentives Yes and no. I would say that there are not, there's not the kind of data that to make really strong statistical about trends that I think will feel The digital data. universe as a native universe generationally has narcissistic meaning that if I'm in the woods, the woods out of a tree and get hurt. I actually learned Eric likes to call it of reality that I have to you know, a respectful way To me, if I have a digital universe where the maximally entertain and engage me, and I have all I have to do is this and the whole now I'm in this universe, and it's maximized Do I have a world in which My conditioning is to what I'm interested in. And I'm supposed to So, so you're saying that we assume our own volition is actually manufactured demand Again, if we go to the old people on their of what the people spent their whole life pursuing spent their whole time pursuing. And most of the not part of what is in their mind as they're dying Well, that begs the question, how, how, at what point in their life could they have And we will see times where someone decides the Joneses, where every time they get a so they have to keep working more and and because the other person charges And where they're like, no, fuck it, I'm, I'm out. to try to do something where I can spend time with reflect on why I exist at all before I die. And always goes up when people do that, as does the Hmm. As does the intimacy and of their relationships and the quality And, and where do those people fall on the Well, there, so, like I said, the, the selection criteria selects for people power and other people that are willing So um, You know, very famously in the when the Nazis were being tried for the did you believe that everything you were doing Only at first. At first, we were, you know, we had Our kids couldn't eat and, you know, etc. we, we believed that we were getting do well for our people and whatever. But as about putting kids in gas chambers. And we Like we felt really bad about it. no, I did not feel good about it. And then when said no. And then they quoted the same German didn't have a choice. And Yet, of course, if 90 which is a coordination failure here on their But anyone on their own is like, if I gas chamber, too. So it's best for me It's kind of a gruesome microcosm of what And so the Ash conformity studies and And I think actually under represent how the idea that when the authority was telling you're in a study, do this thing. And that the person following authority Because of, I don't have a choice, the authority ones, that if 10 people in the room were all the person would defect on their own understanding powerful insights. And the smoke filled room. If there's smoke coming under the door and other I don't speak up. Yeah. So we are social So I, if there was, so imagine that you have a 10 tribes and kind of somebody hits his head, gets traumatic And now he's an asshole and you know, wants before. And, you know, Figures out how to try interest because the other tribes are really or whatever. You could imagine a scenario where Like, no, we're not going to do that you're going to get banished. And that happened, right? That happened a lot. But If that guy right, let's say he's really big or whatever stand up because even though if everyone stood up Nobody wants to stand up to him. You can else has their survival strategy. being not deliver. He's going to deliver safety and he's going to deliver whatever. And And so you get a kind of fealty that kind of leadership. And and also a it's not going to go well for you and still you have this plausible deniability. Best for That combination of distortion, like profound and others. And the, and environments conditioning those psychologies, and then power stack, conditioning more of The recursion on all of that is the thing that they have continued to orient in the direction more military capability, more money, more. And in terms of good? Well, obviously none of the And obviously none of the animals in none of the. You know, some odd 50 million today doing forced labor to make Americans in North America think that American descendants of slaves don't think the you know, like even the people who are body is being exposed to the carcinogens that the solve. And even if you look at the quality of life there, it is the replacement of fulfillment with mostly that provide kind of addictive flashes, whether new position of market dominance. Now, this is actually another part that's it's a, it's a very important and that we can add our life energy. to the world in a meaningful way. And this is why really thinking about what would that the world is better as a result of us having not better in the symmetric, but the world thinking about all the other species we the different aspects of self, like does my, Yes. Did it diminish a lot of So what does better mean? If I really well And so I, I, I want us to pursue real progress. I of bullshit progress, but also in a healthy life, progress is not as important. It's not as if life is a gift now, I'm not exclusively and making it better that corresponds even focused on changing it as much as I am progress gets a undue emphasis when where now is miserable, so good has to be And if you, if you think about the Right? And you think about the billions of years with the complexity that we could exist. And you and we get to hear birds, and we get to exist, to, like, all the things. Appreciating what already is, that is so profoundly unlikely, that took billions of years to make, and most of our life should actually just be an odd maintain and protect it. Because it is so unlikely But nobody makes the history books for maintaining new stuff or destroying stuff. Or you put which is the creed of society right now. But maintenance. 99 percent of life is you feed the And then you make another meal and you wash you're actually maintaining the sacred I can actually Add a new thing that really then yes, I'll add those But it has to really be good for the whole most of my attention is actually needed I both want to kind of like reclaim what but also move it out of the center. And that like, when someone is more unfulfilled, Because they're looking for a hit of they have less addictive tendencies. There is what is and they're in meaningful, intimate of progress that is actually coming from I got that Nobel Prize. I got that Nobel I whatever is a compensation for And it's and so it's not only that it's not it's even coming from in me is not aligned with It's aligned with my own emptiness will fill that up. That is not the right thing. So it's the hungry ghosts are consuming centers and getting stock options and all not actually to achieve something monumental Yes, but it will be sold as that. So is there any evidence that the people that you know, riding high atop Moloch and the of trauma and loneliness and, and emptiness? I don't know stats on like ACEs, right? Childhood trauma associated with those positions. poor people. And it's not like, it's not like right? They're the total nuances of are yeah. Not easy to put an algorithm together to predict. So, someone is physically abused when they're children. Someone else is physically abused when non violent person who doesn't ever want to as it's an overcompensation, they Someone else has a, the healthiest response right? So it is not necessarily saying positions of power are most traumatized, themselves to to both power seeking themselves to good insights about So I can tell you an N equals one uh, experience. with 30 people every day chanting, singing, et cetera. And then I would go for bikes in the and my addiction impulses were much lower because I'm, I'm maintaining the thing. I don't need this is what we need to change the culture. it was a week or two and I got sucked right on in this culture. So we need both. We need the but we also need the infrastructure and the Think about this. When you were in that environment with those people in India. The reward circuits that you were experiencing on a day to day basis were the from intimate communion with other people, that People having authentic conversations of them focused on meaningful and Right. And so there's a fulfillment in likes a thing got or how much we did this things weren't available. I but there weren't all those other parties with music. And there were musical Those were the options. Right. So, but someone's not craving the other are full. Exactly. One's actually in a state of fulfillment for things that make healthier, and. the, and that can Now, if you go to an environment where where there's nobody around you and there's we're, we're social primates. This is a, there wasn't a lone dude with stone tools in the There were tribes of people that would I am because we are, It was this foundational call civilization, right? I Am Because We Are nature did not select for individual sapiens. Individual sapiens in evolutionary what's best for me that fucks the tribe right? What is best for the tribe that I I would not exist. I'd be dead without So I am, because we are obviously survive without us. But then it's also deeper, that all these other people invented. And, but my are in a language that I didn't make. I am, my, The, the, the language of my thoughts, my to me largely by other people. The tools the, all of that, that I am, almost because we are, right? Because Okay, now I have so many goes deeper, because the we was never, never just meant our our relationships, and all our relationships was which is why they were animistic. Those cultures the spirit of the river, the spirit of everything, What would I be without the tribe? I'd be would have never existed. What would I which the sun orbits? I wouldn't exist. field? What would I be without the soil What would I be without all I, that is not the emergent property of we, Fast forward to today. And when I'm sitting around English, which is a language. of the winners came before that English was selected for in this Is that also part of the, this story? So our umwelt, our, the things that are in tiniest sliver of a fraction you know, like within the progress narrative, most people don't miss the being able to actually understand what the animals are saying in the way that indigenous the animals are saying as they're growing up in people don't miss that because they never had it And they don't realize how much more to someone who knows how to listen. And so they they don't miss having a bunch of people that they've never experienced that. They've never They are always fucking withholding and always paying attention to appearance. exists. And they don't miss what it feels petrochemicals in it because they have never had And what real vibrancy feels This has rhymes and, and analogies Yes. And so some people take the blue pill, right? Because it. And so, one, I have, people have a hard time Full of things that they have no was a thing. There's a cool documentary, that shows how in African tribes, what, when the cutting something and the, were actually all They were actually all in this experience of were doing and part of the communication words and semantics. Like, what does where everything you're doing is song and that you feel this kind of rhythm with Most people have no idea that's a thing. And hard to value things that you don't even only hits of pleasure you've ever had. And of the reported amount of suicide, I mean, for teens proportional to the number of hours the number of hours goes from a half hour up, The team doesn't want to give up their phone, and don't want to give up the pleasure they get from the beauty filter on Instagram Right there is another microcosm economic superorganism culture. Yes, And if you have, if you, if you I'd come back to modernity at some point. So there has always been this story all that There's been this histories written by them winning was a good thing. And, you Mongol tribes and Alexander the Great and great kingdom and et cetera. So, you know, but it was also kind of bound with appreciation religion and whatever associated with modernity the role of religion and the then kind of rapid The progress part became almost progress through these new institutions, democracy, et cetera, became like the dominant Separation of the objective world that We can get repeatable measurements the philosophy and the methodology of right? But that science can't say anything measure ought. Right. I can't measure. We can't Is that good? I can independently measure how how much kinetic energy it has or whatever. Descartes is like, well, that's the domain but science can't. And so science Well, but the is is focused on being able to reduce a domain of reality to a model allows me to predict things side of science, which is technology learn how it. to be able to apply levers It's learn how genetics work to be able to do thermodynamics and mechanics work to make internal of science, is engineering, right? no, no, no, we can't do anything with that, right? So which thing gets built is, well, where did that has money that is seeking ROI on that you get the R&amp;amp; D arm of the market, pursuing something that generally has And so the profitable extractive, you because science can't say what ought with the subject of universe and the object of even the Greeks didn't divide those, and definitely the Vedic system and the Taoist Subject and object and make repeatably real with some methods and the other because when you're just focused on and I can't measure those things, right? I can try to measure a neural correlate when someone but that's not the experience of intimacy. So. it's important that it was those two things in It was game theory, the formalization of strategy games under uncertainty, and the application of that same principle. So, but game theory ended up becoming the best congruent thing could say is the best answer or And so under uncertainty, assume the more military, and prepare to not lose on and on. And so, That definition of which has to do with not a particular kind of bad So if you can study the world down to the level degree that you can land a rover on Mars and you A. I. s that can beat humans at war games, And you scales and, and extinct species at scale and That level of technological power in the is actually good in some deeper Understanding, theoretically, that choice making terminate in the same way the cancer does, in the same way so many earlier civilizations did. And so the fact that we have such a powerful that technology, we do have implicit within us deep and profound system of Ethics or wisdom thing. I know you've had Ian McGilchrist on and the goal achieving has to be bound by picking all the parts into pieces come up with the It's the field of I am because we are. So is perspective seeking and feeling and being engaged the table such that it could be? So if we get goals, very narrow goals that are beneficial in harm externalization as we're passing thresholds That thing terminates. So to steward that much what are good goals. What is actually progress? protecting and maintaining? What do what should actual progress would come from reversing Some So what if we had the ability to take but not just billionaires, equivalent modern day of Kissinger, as you said there's eyes open and watch this entire episode, Beyond, be able to do from the moment the metacrisis at its current state, what could the maintenance of just the good things that and get rid of the, the bad from General Smedley Butler. And he called war is a racket. It's very long and people can go check it out. And, racket is. Racket is like a classic example is up a store. So the store thinks that they need And then other members of that same gang sale. And so they are protecting them from manufacturing the demand and then offering look at How much of our modern market and market government system meets of some part of market or technology that some to solve, that will then simultaneously create actually a very But with that definition of a It always has been. It is possibly the surely the most vicious. It is the only true anymore. He wrote this in like 18. 81. in which the profits are reckoned in Racket is best described, I believe, as something people. Only a small inside group knows what it's the very few at the expense of the very many. Out Plus ca change, plus c'est la meme chose. I mean, again, another microcosm of our situation, but now I'm seeing war in light of this erasing parts of history and writing a narrative about right but is really divorced from people will say that I'm romanticizing indigenous and blah, blah, blah. I'm not romanticizing the villainization of it. And that's definitely And that there was obviously a people lived over 200, 000 years in different Oh, this was the unsubstantiated thing back. It's the unsubstantiated. So we symmetry of power that happens through where the increase in power happens to this but that when we start developing let's say, coordinated predative capability also be increasing its resilience to And rather than have our population shrink, on to the next population, move on to the next some indication, though it does seem like the, that the extinction of a lot of the was the result of sapiens success at this including to the other kinds of humans we So the hypothesis I have is that the early from some of those mistakes. And there are that when we, Some of them have destruction that they were able they realized that they had to bind them with emerge to take more careful responsibility one phase of a unrenewability And then lesson So that's the thing I'm saying is I but sounds probably at least part of the truth. You increasingly talk about indigenous cultures, indigenous wisdom and you bring up examples that There are. Obviously, some books and papers studying this, are becoming scholars who are also, but who speak But I've also just pursued making friends ones who are have studied their own histories evolutionary theory, sociology, and can kind this is an area I would, I actually really because the thing that we call civilization has The thing we call industrial civilization, it's the thing we call civilization the beginning of human domestication, in the evolutionary environment, right? They wouldn't have called it wild. And the domestication of livestock went together. right? Which is the, and we've talked about and kind of ox drawn or, you know Donkey or You could call the beginning of the I don't want to change the ecosystem. I want right? Like maybe within the trees a with a digging stick, like in early so I don't need to clear cut land Once I get, and grains aren't but once I can have an ox draw the plow now I can get enough grains and I can store them kind of vast surplus. So we can see why the, the ability for surplus, which meant that It meant that you could send that surplus much larger wars. It meant that you have more specialization and division of labor so means all of those things. But with the emergence In the hunter gatherer life, sometimes the animal in the predator prey kind of relationships, I can apologize for needing to take its body, earth and becomes the grass that its ancestors life and we breathe our spirit into each other, and yoke it and beat it all day long and still And so then we move to man's dominion over God put us here to rule over, they're all here of the animals where their well being also corresponded with the beginning of slavery. So that's. All those things you just mentioned are Totally. And it's why the indigenous narratives And it's that the agricultural revolution was does that thing will become a larger division of labor, and then it will win So one of the insights is that there's two insights here that are important. We've talked about this. It actually like if I go walking around in a forest Because of holding the camera, I'm walking around with a gun, my perception around with an axe, my perception of the attenuates my attention to the things And so the process of even engaging right? Changes the nature of attention. And pattern. Beating an ox all day long is so I'm going to have, agrarian mythos, I'm going to be dreaming and thinking and to be conditioning my nervous system my body's going through in those less complex total movement patterns which leads to less complex and dynamic thought So, and then of course, I can't believe that the dominion model, then And they were here for lower classes are here for the upper classes and and the, what was a forest that we had to And so that model starts to develop. So values neutral. It will code our attention. change our psyches and societies and heaps of physical, they're psychosocial. The next thing theoretic advantage, it becomes obligate because in power competitions, even if what wins at is beautiful and good. And so the technology attention altering, culture altering, is why the Sabbath was about controlling the This is why wisdom around when a new technology how do we use it? How do we change those if you do not have that, then everyone becomes the because it has to. The whoever is best at And that was cavalrymen at the time tech at the time of Rockefeller, and it and it was the people who it is now at at the power associated with the tech stack And they will be narratives that So I know you and your organization are working the time these last few months to write this presumably because you think it's critical. it and presumably because you but narrow, but a path forward where progress for our fellow humans alive Can, can you outline that or are Yeah, so. There are many famous authors who have contributed to the progress narrative and of why antibiotics you know, and et cetera. And why Haber to being able to feed so many more all the good things and why it's getting, And there's not no truth to this, but it is definitely cherry picked. It is definitely what is better for those who war or are still in the positions of poverty things to some is creating for others, terms of who it's looking at progress for, of what value metrics it's considering and It's definitely also framed that the types mentioned or talked about. The types of they're basically like racket type value, are decontextualized. There'll be things like in 50 a day and now inflation adjusted. They have like, yeah, but they grew their food in made their own house. And like, the idea gibberish. That's not true. So you're as how their life was mediated, which So there's a place where that is. We wrote and it's cherry pick the facts. Decontextualize facts and you can make specious conclusions And so I'm not saying that there are no if you take the best examples that there have You know, Haber Bosch is obviously one of them, which is the creation of synthetic nitrogen. And which is now, you know, MPK which did make a us to be able to grow a lot more total crop And that did play a major role in the population years. Which is a 16x in population. And as the resource consumption per capita energy for the entire system, the energy the And that's something like 100x during that 16x ing the capita in a very, very short period state post agrarian revolution, right, which was, were in that kind of hunter gatherer time, is they can regenerate and turning them into trash Even calling it resources, right? This is when you is a natural resource as opposed to a sentient the idea that a person as a slave is a natural that A 3, 000 year old redwood tree is a natural And we, you know, in business, which is not beings that are, whose moms who have children and who are going to have we want to employ in a way where we get Fuck, right? Like it is such a, it's the instrument instrumentalizing of nature is not natural resources. Nature is here for all this time before we were here I am because we are right. So you say, okay, okay, okay. Was that exclusively and the resource consumption grew deficit, population and species extinction and And the dead zones in the ocean are the result of right? And like, we're, it's a three quarter are the result of that mechanism. And a lot because we're not putting everything that We're taking everything out and putting subset. So you get micronutrient deficiency. this was not exclusively comprehensively good. So we're just fixing the prices on and other non renewable inputs get us Kind of, sorta. Because all those none of those are in our price system at all. Right. Indulge me quickly on the, this one of the progress story, which is like the of who wants to do dentistry Like, fuck that. That seems I can't say that I know for sure how but in the indigenous world specifically. world before the progress narrative right? People living in cities during the Dark Do you have huge plagues that are zoonotic where you have, you know, close proximity of those types of things with the are there inside of large population Yeah, it's a very different situation. And so, density city, high population per capita, in the environment, yes, that's a pandemic change the city design, right? Not just, you know, I actually think we might. Underattribute, the benefits that occurred there. But so if about how barbarous dentistry and medicine, the post Caesar Genghis Khan you know, et You go back to indigenous world and Weston on replication and whatever on Weston Price's was involved in founding the American Dental gatherer tribes. around turn of last century, not gotten into agriculture because And he found that they had no cavities. And teeth and they didn't have major occlusion right? This was a huge thing that he just evolve wrong where we have wisdom teeth our bones so that we don't actually have the So we have wisdom teeth. That's it's also the cavities. These people but they also didn't have cavities. Then specifically heavy grain. Diet. And they all start So again, from the racket perspective, do I Yes. Is it entirely possible that a huge the result of having solved problems in to our orthodonture and to our dentistry And the right answer would have been a Right? That didn't have most of human diet come Do we even, as a culture, as a species, have the Like, obviously, once Weston Price and was there a vector to change what was happening? Or was it the racket and the one person in ten that had the dark triad traits The direction of more new complicating effects that are let's say we're, let's say we're talking Vast majority of human life. civilization. Do we understand everything about hydrology and how all the funguses and bacteria of course not. But does it work? Yes. And did evolution doing distributed information And it's still doing all that. Yes. to change that whole system in a way that I should kind of go slower. I should do some tests and really look at Let's talk about the complexity for a minute. Let's say we discuss the movement from what we call currently conventional, agriculture method where you turn desertified soil that you spray NPK on, that are designed for combines, and then you and fungicides that are designed And then humans are both getting trace mineral dead microbiome of the soil that and covered in pesticides and herbicides. you see disease on the rise. But And they're regulated by the same industry, drug studies and stuff, but not into dietary created by the American Dairy Council and so you look, there's a racket, right? And whether it was designed or emerged through irrelevant to the point. Of course, okay, Okay. How does soil work in a natural back into it. There's a loop closure, right? So The leaves, when they fall, decompose into the their poop goes into the soil and their bodies go goes back in. And it's actually all made of the basically like six elements that make up most If I take stuff out of the soil that compounds and the complex chemistry, and the amino acids being produced in the and I put back in three minerals that are enough but has totally lower amounts of macronutrients Like it's kind of odd. Can I predict exactly that's probably going to have problems? want to not spray things designed to be it through nuclear war and designed to Do I want to not spray poisons like that that seems pretty reasonable. And do we, is killing the topsoil that we depend upon, start to look at what are the principles, all There's going to be a balance of things nitrogen. The principle set to do it well is this is what I'm giving an example, like do agriculture properly? Put it, put back in Make sure that the things that are in the soil things that are kind of like you find in a fixing nitrogen and non legumes pulling it naturally repel excessive amounts of insects You can see those patterns in nature. the kind of permaculture approach that just we tell that if the trace minerals that are in that we evolved with, Go back into the soil I can't predict exactly what percentage that to all the other multifactors, but can I, but can I guess that as we get the trace minerals as we get the pesticides out, following the way those things happen together, in general, the health of the ecosystem and the health of Yes. And I don't need to try to optimize every, soil microbiology does everything it does. I have evolutionarily and continue to support that. to appreciate the thing that is already here with it and make sure that what I'm adding to it Yeah. So in your paper, you outline three strategies to I'm going to ask you to, to list those in a your paper, progress worth believing in progress increasing the goodness in the world good once it is taken account of So for such, here's my question, for such a be a culture wide change in our values? Otherwise, paper that we wrote on perverse asymmetries, and entropic gradient, which is if I cut the I didn't kill all whales, I didn't cut down all I can still breathe the air. So I'm not at scale. And in fact, I'm not causing the little problem at scale. Papercut towards it, and of the tree to my family as timber and selling So there is this asymmetry between how significant am of the downside. But then the system dynamics downside and ensures it to be something that will perverse asymmetries like that, like those who up front won't win the technological race and it isn't there or cover it up and make narratives Ultimately, we have to overcome all of are powerful enough that we are not small or small relative to our own survival, our with that much growth of, destroy the ecosystems. That they depend upon. So they did not have we have to ensure that we don't, right? And this leads to the ability for technological progress recursive abstraction can lead to the vow of the recognition, when men are not the web of life, to the web, we do to ourselves, and extending our We can expand our capacity for wisdom as much as scope of our considerations of what a good goal is saying is we must. Now you're asking, is there a our culture, as we already said, is being an So our, our superstructure, our culture, our economies and governance systems and our tool set are all co influencing each other. each other. So obviously we can't, as you, your environment and something that no amount It was automatic in a different cultural change by just moralizing people they're still in the environment that is that's not going to work that well. At the is some people who already recognize that They recognize the fail of it. They meditate on willing to be complicit with it. And not just some people do, but to say, how do I dedicate which should then entail a study of change And or made worse problem so as to not that happens to understand what change that require and what it would be like now, of we have to change the two Technology We have to change the social systems. As putting the externalities are externalized want to take responsibility for all competing against someone who's like economically, you can't, that you're Through the cost externality. So of course that that makes possible a different value algorithm on Facebook could upregulate for exposing people to different worldviews and upregulating the ideas that drive common So those are places where culture's affected it start? It has to start with a I am because we are. The version that is not for we is actually not real I won't participate in the lie of it. And I What is, what actually be good for the in service to that and then progressively that I am participating in things that have So it starts with a change of values and upwards and ultimately I think You're inferring superimposed onto the superorganism structure I want to speak to imposed people with a libertarian some of what is being said, Okay. That was my word. I could have used did talk about restraint. And then we the thing that is more like a cancer cell or going to be the ones to restrain themselves That is something like law. Right. That is are right to consider how those systems have curtail someone's liberty has its own problems, liberty has problems. And that's A lot of people are worried that climate people to eat bugs and not own anything Yeah, and I think if the people who were solution and not owning anything were were not applying those things to themselves, But like, The dude that is a hunter gatherer if he says like, bugs are good, like nobody's about a situation of radical wealth class warfare telling more stories of you know, as a solution while they have So like understandable, right? So The, you, you introduced me to her Vanessa Andrade, who you had on the she was amazing and really respect it's in her the, his definition of colonialism, but I'll bring it up is that colonialism fundamentally, or about abuse of that those were epiphenomena, that the core of And you can say even deeper than that is being of separable things. Which is what Bohm said which is what Krishnamurti said was the cause of So if I believe there's a bunch of separable then I can optimize some things And then I can actually rationalize that is and etc. And, you know, then reify social One could say that the root want things that inevitably cause harm to others. That's the root of the problems. Either because so it's some kind of, you know, rivalry Or because they don't know it causes harm and They just want what they want and the cause and effect would be. Because let's let people pursue what they want. and then also creates propagating patterns harm that other people have to do similar And you have a world defined by arms let the people pursue what they want, says that's bad and prevent it by force, And the asymmetry of. force tends to lead to And so neither of those are good. So as long everything else, as long as they perceive the earlier. And I think similarly, Vanessa was the words are nouns and most indigenous languages, You look at Whitehead as one of the kind century. And the reason he came to process like the things that we think of as things right? A tree is not a static noun. It's the doing It's interacting. biophysically, with the sun it's interacting biologically, doing gene soil microbes, like the tree is in a live And the idea that it's a noun just makes us And the fact that we're thinking in nouns all us bad thinkers at scale that we don't even to have a language that doesn't see the world So changing how a lot more humans perceive to the whole is kind of a necessary Yes, because if I, I was I was just giving this example to someone, I'm going to, what is that? What is that? What is that? they're trying to like, learn what all of the phase usually happens right before the phase Because they're, they're trying to the, the dynamics of universe. The kid a thing we call a tree. I don't say that's a spruce tree or whatever, because It's going to teach them to just not think for themselves. It's going reality with a symbol. It's going to have them are trees and what are not trees, generalize It's going to have them, you know, like it does what is that? And I'm like, let's go touch it. And touch the leaves and then you know, touch all these parts. And then smell it and then notice the other just have them engage in that way. And then say, do you think the tree stops there? Do you on it? Is that part of it? Or is that Is that part of it or not part what do you think it is to that squirrel? bug? What do you think it? It is to itself. when you're with it? And eventually we'll In Spanish, they call it arbole. And in different kinds of things. But this particular they're different. And in fact, this one, there's it. And it's not even the same as it was So the only way to know it is to be with it fully, so imagine if kids grew up that way, rather understand the botany associated with it, blah, their whole self to understand Reality in a much same thing is different from every different And and so if someone is perceiving if they are supported to perceive the uniqueness of everything nothing is fungible and nothing is separable. causing harm and nothing can be optimized at And they get that uniqueness interconnectivity of we that extends to the stars. And then what ghost desire is not the main thing that and fascination and gratitude And it's actually the lack of that ghost place that needs more and more just not that much desire emerges in the that do emerge are in connection with. Like, is it, will it be good for the tree? Is in the tree? I just spent time commuting it wouldn't be good for me if it hurt those who are in connectivity with their inner, who are those desires can be pursued in because their own identity is not separate from What percent of humans alive today would have to have such a value and consciousness change social structure, infrastructure going too harshly, but if you look at what we said, that since the climate movement started, not been actually empirically decreased the And emissions go up every year. Yeah. changed the fact that more tons of the year before. And that species the not market seeking best motive There's clearly Like, clearly, we don't just need more of but then makes nuclear and dams and other and cause other problems. So there's the of system can't avoid making It is part of an autopoietic process, and there is a need to extract deprogram the, the nature of that kind of and perceiving everything as separable and where I think my fulfillment comes from status right, to where there is a mind that's That in who actually feels a fulfillment who feels in awe that they have already got to whose motive is actually in service of future And their desire to protect and maintain interconnectivity of things enough to not solution to that part will externalize harm wants to really not participate in causing one does have to look at how this system and how they understand what problems figure those things out and how to measure all like that and come to say, like, how how nature works such that I can work And yeah, there's, there's profound deconditioning It feels right to me because. I've experienced even just the change in your language and, that I had prepared after reading your So I think we're going to have to do a part one then get your input on how you'd like to your paper. Philosopher and psychologist Eric alienated form of faith, pessimism, If one truly responds to man and his future, one can respond only by faith or by despair. are based on the most thorough, critical knowledge survival of man. So with that quote, Daniel, that you work with, with publishing papers such What are you hoping to lastly, this is another open loop. We were progress narrative really accelerated post that things are getting better and better having written the history as and alternate And someone doesn't think about all the The default assumption is that when new until we figure out how to use it. Then it'll be good. Right. That's kind of the default when we look at technologies that have power than anything we've ever touched, complexity or more not understandable and more The default assumption will be it, it'll some problems. We'll figure out how to don't think a right assessment of that, nor do I think these technologies And so in the face of exponentiating technology, And it's not just destructive capacity through its market uses, doing a thing that's driving externalities more If it is, I, I want more people to have a A a wider kind of clearer at things that are being called progress to look at the issues that are emerging assumption. And a different, like, Actually, some of these things are so harmful. was safe before putting it in gasoline and irreparable harm that could never be addressed and there is truly existential risk portended, burden It should be, we actually have to prove enough analysis of what those we rapidly scale the stuff. So that that paper out now is because the rate of I will call it advancement because it is with not the refining on what is a good goal leads to externalities and all like that. is definitely in the verticalizing No one can actually really understand The now, you know, that there was nothing like and it kind of ate the world. And that was couple of years. And just the hardware on You know, the power will 10X in right? And then in six months, it will the software and the parameters and the 100X in less than a year? And if you look at, I think it's a And so, you know, and if you take something like AI, where It is basically a general purpose to beat people at chess? Do you want to beat them at Starcraft? Do you Do you want to beat them at protein folding? planning or high speed currency trading? all those things. The technology will be on the upside of that. But when the Cost of And then the affordance allows everybody to be really thought about set. I, I, the AI is another conversation that I to climate change and the environment, but on this model in English and with all the perceptions And isn't it like an exponential layer of we have to change our perception of our relation of times more the perception of the, what it does not, you know, it has the ability It does not have the ability for empathy, which means that goal achieving without sadistic, it doesn't have interiority. Oh, so, The whole conversation around will AI thing. More importantly is that It operates inside of companies and inside as part of a cybernetic system. So it general to be part of a cybernetic system what other types of AI is, so the whole architectures, plus what it predisposes the thing that's being selected for. So, as we're in a place where technological advancement is speeding problems. They're problems that our previous these technologies are being downplayed. Everyone It would be better if more people progress narrative and understood what and understood the caution and restraint maintaining understood that very often the best which actually involves reversing some But the obviously market incentive is incentives on create new stuff. But as problems in a way that isn't a racket, right? the result of our previous problem solving First, we have to say, is this actually a problem? to solve through artificial preservatives as opposed to like fresh, Vegetables that It's actually a feature of reality There's that meme that shows a picture Ritalin easier than parenting. Is, Is our a problem that we need a technological because we have to work because of But like tribal life was the kids and the time together as the center of civilization with so the first part of problem solving is, is this reality that yes, it requires, like, do I want muscular engagement where then you have a society Or do you actually want that? Like, All the of strength in them is actually important. to automate all those things away. Do I Oh, your family member just Here's a here's a psych med to take that you're feeling emotions? And the a psych med. Or is in the exploration of those meaningful life at all? Because you understand You're going to die. What is meaningful while you loved that person? That you're in deep I was a shithead to that person. I didn't too busy working at my job. To have a cost of doesn't actually make me happy, but that realize that maybe I'm not going to stop and to be that many people who are that touched is exactly what the fuck you need to reflect and So the first part of problem solving is. Is this or is this a facet of life that I actually need really is a problem, what caused it? Was this or was this caused by other things we did As opposed to ameliorate at the symptom level, And, you know, so there are these kinds of steps in a way that does not cause more problems. And it of having us have what we add to the world be But it is different in process and different, different in process and every way. Is there a third step? There's some papers we're going to publish on the processes they're not algorithmic, they're, they're is this really a problem that needs a facet of reality to be with? Have I traced it back to the causes? Do I of those costs? You know, like those kinds of teaming is once we decide there is a. Thing a business or a technology, because there is some et cetera, and there's still something through if this thing succeeds and solves what is the totality of the effects of it is it going to externalize effects because it's And if it externalizes more positives, in the right direction. for tuning in. And if positive things for a million entities over a benefit to squirrels and to butterflies and It's stabilizing topsoil and holding transpiration and keeping the river like, positive externalities are actually the the interconnectedness of things. don't understand the interconnectedness, See you next time. So, the yellow teaming is the and causal dynamics such that you look at the see where there are possibly harmful ones do we design such that that's not the case, And that is actually possible. Not It's sometimes with increasing frequency, species at the exact time the clock is the possibility. Yeah. So isn't a paper naive versus authentic progress a There are signs of authentic progress more people that kind of care about that are interested in thinking about long term interested in approaches to healthcare that are Currently, The rates of growth of the things that are moving in the authentic externalizing direction are not adequate. Right. that is contributing to the meta crisis thinks Right. I'm, I'm providing a product or service demand for it, which means it's increasing. makes their life better. And I'm employing the awesome system that allows us to understand And like, that's, that's The story. So it's in such defensive fossil fuels of look at and of the market and, and they do, and And while that has benefited some and sucked of self and sucks for the dimensions of And it is in the process of self terminating In which case, the, damn, I really don't want to want to just, what's best for me and my family I don't want to try to make things better where from the same type of mind that engages in rivalry counter movements and that optimizes for one thing So I want. That the activism, the protection deeply enough that I know how to participate, that actually meaningful. So I would actually like a deeper movement into withdrawal, and well intended failed actions more rigorously, emotions about the whole thing and really taking make it better is still ego, is still um, feel it is still a problem solving mode that is and like letting that stuff where one can engage in how to shift the system dynamics of the world in a way Here, here. Once again, you have surprised this conversation went in a different way than I How would you like to wrap this You mentioned 12 questions that we didn't get to thoughts. So if there are interesting two. Particularly if once we publish some of because we don't have where we're publishing I think the thing that I would hope people leave with is deepening appreciation of it. The tremendous to make the world that you exist in, the and the desire that the thing that makes your you want to have occupy more of And That the places where your energy are occupied by the result of a coordinated violence and like that, that own self and psyche. And, and you the universe and world that gives rise to the possibility at all, and then seek to explore Hippocratic Oath that's like, I, I'm not willing for me or whatever, or in being complicit Not willing. And I'm going to look And rather than jump so quickly to, well, whatever, try a little harder to say, do don't jump to your own lack of about the billionaires that would say, Oh, Well, like, how long did you spend thinking about And and I think the combination of the removal of some of the energy from appreciation of the natural world, and the study of what does, and then can actually protect against harm can Or the set of cultural shifts see. That's a hell of a start, my friend. For being dark here in Minnesota, and I'm going by a tree. And reflect on it's not just and relationships and just do a little bit of a It was beautiful and wise and has given me much all your thought, and all your efforts and all of us striving to play a role. it was a delight to be with you today. If you enjoyed or learned from this please follow us on your favorite podcast com for more information on future releases. by No Troublemakers Media, and curated