In the fastest turnaround in the franchise IX was released in North America in November the year 2000, just barely over a year after One. Final Fantasy IX had an unfortunate release. Not because of the game itself, just the circumstances By the time it came out, the PlayStation 2 By the time Final Fantasy IX came out, Final People were already excited and waiting for games, leaving them little desire to play Basically, Final Fantasy IX is the ignored ...oh no Final Fantasy IX is me. [intro with prelude] I've always felt bad for Final Fantasy IX. It got overlooked so much and shunned by so It's always been one of my favorites, and chose to ignore it. For the sake of getting footage for this video, on all current consoles. It begins with a stormy sea, winds blowing, in an act of desperation. Quickly, we see this is a daydream, and we More pivotal, we are introduced to the kind Castles. Knights. Princesses, queens, villages, airships that This is a statement - the "fantasy" is The known aesthetic of the series began to Final Fantasy 6. More and more machines and technology and that was cemented for, at this point, over We know that Final Fantasy is going to have guy at the end who wants to kill a planet After many years and a few games straying us right back to where it began - fantasy. This is intentional. This was to be the last game directed by the After this, he left Square. This was also the last time that series composer for any more Final Fantasy games. It's not only a reflection upon the series They wanted to go out with a bang, and remember whole series. And that they did. There are numerous references, callbacks, The band plays the Shinra March from Final from Final Fantasy 3, the four fiends from some not so subtle ones such as just saying, Getting back to the series roots also meant so used to. Moogles, chocobos, even the robes of a White THERE EVER WAS. And of course, this all ties back to the gameplay Once again, it's back to a party of four. All the characters represent classic jobs monk, dragoon, summoner.... Tongue. (blue mage). This is with the finall appearance of the that was used for six games in a row. Commands are back to familiar territory - attack, Equipment is also back to the familiar - everyone extra accessory. Every fight as you killing enemies, earning and moving on to the next random battle. Combat in general is most similar to Final each character having an assigned role or Limit breaks are also back, only in the form 7 where after so much damage, the character and a fancy new outfit. It increases their stats and unlocks additional Unlike Final Fantasy 7 though... trance is Once you hit that damage limit, it's immediate So about 90% of the time, they go wasted on the battle to be finished like three seconds I can't even describe how many times this Another difference is that Final Fantasy IX's 8. There is just a bit of a hiccup or load time to finish up their flashy animations before I didn't mind the slower pace by any means, to do something and a brief while later, I yet!?" And uh... that's about it. That's all that can really be said about So what makes Final Fantasy IX's battle What does Final Fantasy IX do that makes it ...nothing? There isn't anything new or innovative or There isn't anything fresh. And that's okay, and that's one of its Sometimes, you don't need new wacky things There's something to be said about being And that's how I'd describe 9's battles Nothing spectacular, nothing incredible, nothing It's oddly refreshing to get back to basics it up. It's like going to a bar and ordering a Not an overly fancy drink by any means, but enough of it, it helps you forget Final Fantasy ...speaking of Coke, did you know Japan had ...this is real. Even though the battle system itself isn't battles. They take strategy, playing around enemy attacks, They felt more involved than the usual bashfest Especially with certain dungeons, careful more important than the fights themselves. And that's the other major gameplay innovation Equipment bears greater consideration than teaches each different character different This is how mages learn new spells, the melee can learn passive abilities with varying effects. So at the end of each battle, not only do character also earns Ability Points, allowing equipment. This provides for some interesting decision Weapons you want whatever naturally gives times where you pause and question the upgrade. Because, well, if I just spend a few more learn these skills permanently. So you have that decision to make - go for extra strength, or hold off so that you have for damage? The same goes for the defense of armor or There's more going on than just equipping to it. Plus, each character has a limit to the total to have them all. The limit goes higher as you level up, so abilities. I always love that kind of stuff. I love it when I can make interesting decisions I wish I could say the skills were more interesting Yeah sure, there's something to getting for everyone else is... not all that great? Like, Steiner is able to learn different sword but the success rate of all of them is so I can always make Vivi cast magic onto his And Zidane's extra skillset hardly mattered the item steals in this game is so good. There are tons of passive abilities for everybody abilities. Things like being immune to confusion, or There's a couple in there that can change or stronger reflected spells, but for the that you can come up with a myriad of custom It's more about knowing when you need to And in one of the better additions I've Shop, where you can take two items and combine It may not sound like much, but basically compulsions gets rewarded by changing that 3 become WAY better later on. It feels just as good as finding that Elixir the credits roll. It all ends up being pretty good. It's fun to get the new abilities and play what you want active at any time, but doesn't playthroughs. I like it - it doubles the excitement of finding getting new skills. I do wish some of the skills were more viable, Final Fantasy IX is fun to play. There aren't a whole lot of thrills with before, but that's okay. There's nothing wrong with the gold standard. The equipment and ability stuff does help It doesn't do anything wrong. Well... except for one thing... Ah, man, remember how fun Triple Triad in It was so cool, and so popular... it's like ...But made it stupid?" Tetra Master is a card game in Final Fantasy It's very much inspired by Triple Triad, your opponent's cards as possible. Only more complex, more random, and less fun You still have arrows on every card you play. If an arrow points at an opposing card, you pointing back, then the cards FIGHT. Whichever card wins takes the other over, cards, it combos and takes those over too. Which with just that, it would be fine, but Every card has 4 digits on it representing physical defense and magic defense. The thing is, it's not as simple as using to help make sure you win the fight. There's crap like physical doing more damage trumps both. But most importantly, above all else, it's It means a 0 defense card "could" defeat That makes no god damn sense! Your best play could be completely ruined LOOK. Here's a bear. He's a 2/2. And here's a chinchilla. That little guy is a 1/1. They fight, right? According to Tetra Master, sometimes, THIS Honestly, that is the only thing holding this It would be just fine, perfectly serviceable, some of your best plays worthless. Here's the big thing though -- unlike Triple is MANDATORY. There comes a point in the game where you and win enough to face the champion. You have to play it and you have to get good Imagine any single person outright ignoring playthrough, and rightfully so because it's of having to play a minigame that doesn't Thankfully after this one forced tournament, again. Which there's no reason to, because there playing or collecting the cards. It's just there, if you want it, and nobody Even though there are people to play against of the game. Tetra Master is a weak, forced minigame that Related to that, one of the better things There are SO many things to find. Nearly every single screen has tons of hidden You can get plenty of extra money, healing equipment. They aren't too difficult to get -- just for it. The same goes for quests! There are a LOT of sidequests and extra things Aside from the aforementioned minigame of the weird friendly monster quest, extra summons guy). Even some ridiculous ones, like acquiring to the final dungeon of the game in less than That is impossible without a guide, which with the release of the game. Fun story about this thing, this was launched PlayOnline. I'll talk more extensively about this service know about it for now -- several sections say things like "for more information, check use PlayOnline. Basically, parts of the strategy guide was For a physical book. In the year 2000. I want you to process that for a moment. So aside from the battle system itself being pretty good EXCEPT FOR THIS. I think it's only real drawback is that the battle speed turned to max, but that's It is quite fun to play, as frequent equipment loadout decisions provides for a constantly Again, by no means mind blowing, but it is It's just good. All things together, it's an enjoyable experience But, Final Fantasy IX's greatest strength A lot of it is its story, thanks to further Remember how jaw dropping I said Final Fantasy And that how VIII did them even better? Well playing it again, the cutscenes are IX They have so much more going on, way more a lot of them, and cinematography like never I did not appreciate how good these were for A lot of this is helped by its art style. Rather than going for realistic looking characters, a lick of sense, Final Fantasy IX opts for And sadly... this turned a lot of people away I don't blame them. So many people came into the series off of of art style -- or that somehow more realistic cooler. I've heard people describe this as "chibi", being for children. I don't agree with it being chibi at all I think everyone who dismissed IX because and should try to reconsider it. And for the most part, that's how it is Compared to when it first came out, way more how its graphics have held up the best of In fact, its art style is now one of the things I call this the "Wind Waker" effect. Like when Zelda: Wind Waker was first announced, compared to Ocarina of Time and Majora's shut up about it. Same thing with IX here. The graphics are arguably better now than The music, on the other hand, was always incontestably Keeping in line with the theme of being a Fantasy IX brings back iconic songs in all First, the battle theme begins with an all that this is easily the best version of it And upon victory, the classic victory fanfare (victory theme) There is a distinctively medieval this is no more evident than in one of my Also returning are distinctive character themes. This was a major component in Final Fantasy 9 uses character themes fantastically, as provide a supplement to show the character's Steiner's theme has a forced seriousness Zidane's theme has an upbeat positive energy, And in Vivi's theme, you can practically from the music alone. Seriously, I can't think of a single song A new pseudo-gameplay addition in relation "Active Time Events", which basically Choosing to see the event shows a cutscene same time as whatever it is you're doing. It helps make characters moments feel like you're out shopping another one is meeting In the end, it's basically extra cutscenes them provide additional scenes of character This happens frequently. One of the best things about the plot, the talk to each other like actual freaking people. Their words chosen are believable, they often arisen are often solved by the characters So many of these have characters learning of them let them have internal monologues, and actively develop before you. As I've stated before, I'm a big fan of to interact and be characters - Final Fantasy One of the main goals of the development team the characters and their development. They nailed. This is some of the best, most enduring, likeable Period. Vivi is easily the breakout star. Anyone who has played this already will tell He's so endearing and innocent, and has Because of his perceived youth and inexperience, of not quite belonging with anyone or never He is the prime example of something that harm, making it all that much more gut-wrenching himself, his brothers, and his inevitable Garnet is far from the stuck up princess stereotype than she was than before is her main motivation All she wants to do is improve herself. And, y'know, I used to a Quina hater. I didn't like their abilities, I didn't but after playing it again, I like them. They're absolutely a one-note character the same time, I can appreciate that. They know what they're about and while every comic relief, and I think there's something life's simple pleasures to the fullest and All that said, there are some really weak Freya is introduced relatively really, and She was a dragoon of Burmecia who left the back to Burmecia for the first time in years, Sir Fratley. She was seeking him out, only for him to return She is happy to see him still alive, and... That's where any sort of meaningful story This is approximately a few hours after first Disc 2. Her plot ends as fast as it begins. A shame. I wasn't a huge fan of Eiko originally, toes a little too much. Her personal story arc isn't expansive either, much with a young child. She's mostly there to help set up the obvious she does have happy ending that is quite fitting. And then there's Flaming Amarant. He sucks. He has no real story arc outside of a single and basically only exists to fulfil the RPG guy" character. He provides nothing to anything and if he change. He's a worthless character outside of punching GOING ON WITH THAT HAIR?" Thankfully, the supporting characters make of them become temporary party members. All of the tantalus members are great, and than Amarant. King Cid works as a great focal point for on, therefore explaining it to the player And Final Fantasy IX is home to the hottest, history, Kuja. This cannot be argued. He is the hottest. General Beatrix goes from a daunting, impossible is a shortlived party member. And watching her story unfold alongside Steiner's Like I said though, the most popular character Even people who haven't played the game you how much they love Vivi. That said, I don't think he's the best The best, and my personal favorite, is Steiner. Steiner is not likeable. He's a bit of an oaf, and often times actively main interests. He doesn't do this out of malice, he's That's what I love about him - his internal Remember, I've said before that a character's is just as important as their backstory, and Everything you need to know about Steiner the game - he's proud, devout, and takes can see the pain and sadness in Princess Garnet, Yet he is stuck in his personal code. Watching him be such an obstacle for everyone he gets, to the point where calls Zidane on and knowing when to give the two of them space, as a character. He isn't the most likeable or loveable, Weirdly, the one character I would argue that is the main character, Zidane. From the moment you meet him, he is such a one of the most reasonable, level-headed and So many small moments where I can't help He trusts people, allows them to make their a simple rule: "You don't need a reason He helps people all the time, it's his thing. Moments such as when Garnet takes control offers to help, and Garnet says "no, I got His response to that was just, "Okay, yeah, It may seem small, but to just trust someone shows a lot of emotional maturity. ...I say as just moments earlier he straight THAT'S SEXUAL ASSAULT. And by the end of the whole game Zidane is... That isn't to say he doesn't suffer hardships, Which is why one of the best, most memorable when Alexander destroys Bahamut, or Blank destroyed. It's when Zidane becomes sad, accompanied game, aptly named, You Are Not Alone. Seeing Zidane become a depressed former shell see, like seeing a friend go through a hard than to say "don't worry, I'll still Which is exactly what all of his friends do. It's a simple, powerful moment, and we've our lives. It's something that, to some degree, every just how good the characters of Final Fantasy Alright. Final Fantasy 7 is the most important one. Final Fantasy 6 is my favorite one. Final Fantasy 9, is the best one. It has too many good things going for it to It has the most well-rounded, solid gameplay it being unremarkable in many ways. And if the only major complaint is the card game. More importantly, it's the story and the to this day. Almost all of them, even the side characters, of its central theme - not being alone. It's regrettable how often 9 is overlooked Final Fantasy 7 and 8, but as days go by, through. With the modern remasters available on every mods such as the graphics-improving Moguri playthrough. If I had to pick one game of the franchise again, it would be Final Fantasy IX. It released with every marketing hindrance not deserve. I have even more to say about it in fact. And if you're interested, I've got lots you can find the rest of this conversation of conversation -- Wait don't leave! I've got tons of AOL CDs with 500 free hours Hey Everyone - regular Jared here to say thanks Final Fantasy 8 video, I had a lot of troubles Only this time it wasn't even Square Enix that the Final Fantasy 9 Battle Theme is actually YouTube, man. Thankfully, to help avoid being claimed or this video. Raycon makes High Quality Ear Buds for your The sound quality is incredible at only half market. With seamless blue tooth pairing to any device, up to 6 hours. With how long they last and how comfortable you listen to music, a podcast, YouTube videos, background while you're doing anything else. You know who you are. There are tons of colors to choose from and safe purchase to make sure you're happy. Click the link in the description below, OR your order. And if you do, thanks for supporting me and Now, onto the show!