Transcriber: Katrin R. As I was introduced, A big, big topic, a word, a concept, an idea that we've all spoken about But in reality, it seems to me that we haven't been able about what that word really means. So, I want to share with you that I've learned in the last 60+ years with many students Honest question concerning, And what is the right kind of food to eat Let me start out with a big idea. It's one that has sort of that I think is worth saying. Namely, nutrition, when done right, can create more health than all the pills I know that's a big startling idea If we do it right, we get away from drugs, we can be healthy. So, there's a problem, basically, and this is the problem Nutrition is not taught There's not a medical that properly teaches nutrition - Secondly, among the 130 or so which is a sort of procedure are reimbursed for services - of the 130 medical specialties not one is called nutrition. So, here's a problem. Here are the professionals their services in the area of health care, and not been taught the one subject that is the most important, And secondly, even if they did know and they got some training, they're not really going to be able Therein lies some of the problem many people in this country, have difficulty understanding Of course, as I mentioned, That's one of the reasons, and it needs to be solved because there's so much It's very difficult to know, and I think you would agree with this, that one of the problems it's very difficult to know whether another claim, it's very difficult to know And I'm sure many of you know and quite in contrast with each other. So, as I look back over the years I've sorted out a couple of ideas, that if we stick to these two ideas alone, we'll get to that sort of land where so much health could be created. First of all, eat whole foods. Whole foods, not the individual nutrients And by that, I mean We've done a lot of research it's a huge industry, Fifty percent of the population as a means to nutrition. I'm not talking about that. Nutrients taken out of the food, do not do exactly the same thing that they do when they are in food. And secondly, there are fragments and I'm referring to plants Even the stuff taken out of plants, maybe it's the right but when you take it out we get a different response than the whole food. This is another idea to keep in mind: That's somewhere around Turns out, if you look at the literature We do not need to eat animal foods Plants have all the protein So, just those two ideas. Whole foods, obviously meaning plants animal foods to go along with that. That combination really works. Now, my career started, and I happened to come across an idea helping to co-ordinate a national program where, in fact, our efforts were intended to actually make sure even good quality protein, And I saw something that and we are not getting onto these details, animal-based protein, did not look to be as good So, we organized a study. As we started to look into this question, Is protein as good as what we think it is, Here is one little display among hundreds of things like this. Cancer, we all tend to agree, It's happening more or less all the time So, it starts with a gene mutation, As a result of it starting with a gene, if we have a cancer gene, That leads to some suggestions: we should get analyzed But, in my view, even though that's the most of the cancer industry. Here's what happens. This is an experimental animal study It started as a mutated gene, and we followed the progression over the first twelve weeks. If we fed lower levels of protein, 5% - remember I said 8 to 10% so, we start with 5% and we feed the animals who had we get no cancer. If we feed them, on the other hand, we get lots of cancer. So, here is a striking difference But then we went to the next question. We wanted to know what would happen if we just switched between 5% and 20%. So, starting with 20%, the first three weeks These are precancerous Switching to 5% turns it off; 20%, we turned it back on again; 5%, it turns it off. That was striking at that time, because if we assume that cancer and if you have the genes maybe if you don't, you won't. In this particular case, what we are showing So it leads to this idea here: whether we were born with them or whether they were created they're sort of hanging around, they remain basically silent So, it puts the onus then on the question concerning nutrition We think of nutrition We tend to think of individual nutrients We value foods according to how much nutrients it has - Most of our thinking about nutrition In reality, it turns out - it turns out the amount let's say in a spoonful we can know how much is there in theory, but that has little relationship to how much nutrients there may be wherever that may be in the body. So, the amount we are consuming here has almost nothing to do, with the amount that's operating Which raises a question. There's a lot going on and it's sort of an activity, a bunch of activities And then, individual nutrients, when they are examined generally, we think of - this nutrient causes this response and here is the mechanism That's the way we tend to think, and that's the way cause and effect It turns out that, in our hands, I wanted to know what was the mechanism by which it worked. Which enzyme? Which transport mechanism That's the basis for the entire If we see something going wrong we want to know what the mechanism is. So, maybe we can make or enhance it, whatever the case might be. It turned out in our hands: the protein caused cancer, every time we looked for a mechanism, It got up to about ten or so, and in a couple of those mechanisms, not only was the protein it was actually attenuating or minimizing that tend to protect us. So, the high-protein diet was actually sort of getting working together like a symphony It was a very exciting idea. Again, it shows some degree of complexity, which I would suggest is really important And then this leads us to the idea as I mentioned before. It worked best in whole foods; you take them out it's altogether different oftentimes. Sometimes they work sort of the way but it's not necessarily So those three observations are pointed regarding what nutrition is. It's not a function and adding up these effects; it's all of them When we consume the foods, in order to get that good protein what that tends to do is to displace that we otherwise should be consuming. So, when we look at the totality on the various disease processes, it's not just one thing working, it's the combination, as opposed to the lack of those things Now we know, we've got good evidence for this, that kind of diet &quot;Eat your vegetables and prevent future disease.&quot; Not sure we paid especially when we were young - we figured out we'll get a solution But in reality, now we know, namely: the kind of diet when it's done right, actually can be used So now we have altogether Instead of relying on single chemicals, be they drugs or whatever else, now we can simply look And it happens very quickly, within ten days, two weeks or so, you can see remarkable changes occur in sort of biochemistries, if you will. Once we get to thinking about food we're in a different territory. There's something because you can see the results so fast. There's a lot of people now doing this. As a result of some of the work we did this is now being tried by people, and many of you here, I think, you switch, you got a problem, without side-effects. Why is nutrition not taken seriously As I said before, it's not. It needs to be taken seriously. Medicine, or the practice of medicine, whether we're doing is what I call reductionist. We're looking at one thing at a time; we're looking at just this disease - just this disease. We're looking at usually this drug or that nutrient, if you will, and also, at the same time, we're thinking about And so, medicine that's what our system is: it's highly reductionist. We now know we have a lot of problems Things are not working like they should; there's a lot of evidence to show that. It's also very, very expensive. And if we are going to rely to keep us well, we need third party care, namely the doctors or others. In contrast, nutrition, as it is simply, as I suggested, it's working basically comprehensively; it's not working one mechanism, all of these seem and the same direction That's a very exciting concept. That, in turn, leads us to just wonder, What kind of foods should we eat And that's first-person health care. All of a sudden now, What we need to do is just do it, and in that way, we can actually eliminate a substantial proportion or other pills and procedures. And finally, I want to ask the question: Why is nutrition not taken seriously You probably thought I'm not sure they are. I've been in that community, We have problems. And the sense is is that to too much corporate Whether it's coming in the form of money which sort of tethers us to that idea, or whether it's coming with corporate sections on the outside. Not that we shouldn't; we need to do that, That's not the issue. But the corporate influence is such now that we keep falling back looking at things very specifically. We're losing track; we're not getting the essence So, this happens also I spent about 20 years where we attempted into something we can tell the public. And once again, But the center of that interaction is again falling back on looking And so, in the whole process, in policy development, or doing research, which we did a lot of that, we are losing track And so, we're doing that - our system is corrupted, it's seriously corrupted and we're all part of it. And what we really need to do because the cost to this society The cost of health care of any country in the world. Let's redesign nutrition - I'm almost in a position of throwing away gather the whole idea, and then use it again to actually And I would argue to take the evidence we now have and just go forward and do that. Thank you very much.