Funded by the Ministry of Channel 1 Star Media babich-design Russian Military-Historical Society Present The Battle of Sinop, 1853 These four hours of the battled The tension reached its utmost point, In the blink of an eye the sky, the as flame and blood. That was a The entire world witnessed again of the Russian warriors. It seemed that It only remained to wait till the sea disperses, and it would be safe the bay of Sevastopol. Only one person, the winner, a famous of Empress Maria, understood: this was merciless world war. This war is most often But the Crimean battles, including only a part of a greater war. The warfare embraced vast territories, to the Caucasus and the Pacific Ocean. The war was waged on the lands its players were pursuing global goals. With every new step the ideological These factors are signs of a world war. That was namely the reason why the was called the Zero World War. It became a kind of a rehearsal for the ZERO WORLD WAR Episode 1 London, 1844 On June 1, 1844 in London, at the the arrival of three steamboats. An imperial flag was waving It meant that Russian Czar The British capital welcomed The Russian emperor was surrounded wherever he went. Confident glance, impeccable a knight nobility breathed by every Taking part in official events, even for a moment about the During his meeting with Britain's Nicholas shed light on He didn't doubt the Getting control of the Bosporus the Black Sea and the Mediterranean goal of the Russian diplomacy since Taking the straits would eliminate the and facilitate the Nicholas I understood: as long as the his empire will be vulnerable. And to the Ottoman Empire The Ottoman Empire emerged in It reached its height in 1453, after Constantinople. At the moment of its of Near East and North Africa, Greece, In the middle of the 19th century the being shaken by national revolts and losing It was not without a reason that "the sick man of Europe." Different revolts It was indeed close to collapse. That is why in his conversation with immediately got to the core. "The collapse of the Ottoman Empire is any part of its territory." Nicholas was speaking so excitedly that from the window, because The emperor made several steps towards with utmost clarity, "If the Ottoman "I will never allow Constantinople to The English prime minister and the if the Ottoman Empire collapses, the plan to divide it. As a sign of his with Nicholas. However the parties Nicholas was an open person. He partners and believed that a But the British government, which didn't left freedom of maneuver for itself. between the countries there In 1832 the share of England in Russian share in English Raw materials were exported from It was a matter of vital concern for But it started to change. In 1825 through 1845 the import of to Russia increased by nearly 30 and industrial companies doubled. Numerous textile factories were opened, by 280 percent. Railways and and along with the steamboat industrial centers. Banks and insurance and the currency rate England's Prime Minister Sir Robert von Brunnow and tried to persuade to be a rural, rather than a the British premier without any Russia should refuse from the At that time Russian merchants were shore of the Caspian Sea, in Persia Not only were they competing with the From the British point of view, this at any cost. On the 9th of June the His Majesty appeared to the strains Once His Majesty boarded the vessel, a small row - boat with The oarer brought a sack of straw, for sleep on a straw-stuffed Nicholas left for his homeland in his mission. Now, when two most powerful agreed to act together, he Only about his daughter, Alexandra, Since March she was feeling unwell, her condition improved. So, When The Black Eagle, the emperor's a British schooner with several hundred The load was heading to the Caucasus against the Russian army. Nicholas spent only two months saying only two words The peace with Britain won't The war between the two great moment when the English prime minister Warsaw, 1848 The English worried not only Europe remembered Russia's power, when army, after defeating Napoleon, And now the Russian army was again in in the Austrian Empire. Emperor in favor of his son. 18-year-old Hungary rose in revolt soon. The pronounced the fall of the Habsburgs Franz-Joseph I was born on August king of Hungary, king of Bohemia, King of Galicia and Lodomeria. During the Austrian Empire went through a lot. Franz-Joseph managed to strengthen it, Austria was totally defeated on As a result it collapsed. Franz-Joseph Franz-Joseph came to Russian kissed the Russian czar's Nicholas treated the young emperor military assistance. Several days the Hungarians under the command Paskevich Ivan Fedorovich, Count He started his career during the reign aid-de-camp. A hero of the Patriotic Russo-Turkish wars. He commanded North Caucasus and the suppression was appointed the Namestnik He was a front name In June 1849 four corps of the the Austrian Empire. The army under advanced in all directions, surrounding On August 13, the Hungarian Paskevich sends a message to Nicholas, The Russian czar saved the Austrian anything in return. Franz-Joseph's During her visit to the Parliament, had to go through a couple of Although Her Majesty couldn't if Tsar Nicoaly is still it looks like the answer is obvious: now the Austrian ground, Russia becomes a real Saint-Petersburg, 1853 It was then that Russia received Nicholas didn't see the fear and In this situation he decided to return to In January 1853 the Russian Hamilton Seymour. Seymour was listening Division of the Ottoman Empire, proposed According to this plan, England would Russia, additionally to the protectorate Moldavia and Walachia, would get Serbia and Bulgaria. The thorny issue Before saying goodbye to the ambassador, government completely and that he agreements, "This is a free exchange a word of gentleman." Seymour was so depressed by the he stumbled and fell, when Nicholas kindly smiled and helped the In his plan, Nicholas sincerely tried However, the English were To stop Russia, they secretly decided even with arms, if there In 1838 the English government imposed according to which Britain got a As a result, a stream of English They were so cheap that the local couldn't stand the competition. To keep the Ottoman minister of finance on a to London and Paris stock exchanges. That brought Turkey even In those years Charles Stratford Canning in Constantinople. Charles Stratford Canning was a younger He was born in 1786. He was appointed and soon started to implement a critical policy of the Ottoman Empire. Constantinople, 1853 They said about Canning, "this man is The ambassador's assistants kept to run out of the office as soon as His arrogant look and majestic respect him. The tiniest disagreement "Great Elci" as they called him, could the ministers and state officials. of the Ottoman Empire Canning was obsessed with the idea He didn't have any kind feelings either who in his time refused his candidature But there was another European Emperor Nicholas. North of France, 1846 In the Fortress of Ham, located in the in full swing. The prisoners of this diseases and death were considered was equal to a suicide. The prisoners life imprisonment for the He dreamt of grandeur and believed in games with the fate. At that time he, And he got such a chance. Charles Louis-Napoleon Bonaparte was of Napoleon I, King of Holland Louis de Beauharnais, Napoleon's adopted his uncle in Paris, he After Bonaparte was thrown down and Louis-Napoleon's mother had to leave till she settled in Switzerland. Unable became a military serviceman. Paris, 1848. Elysee Palace. Louis Napoleon perceived the change of He declared himself the legal heir to seize the throne. With this aim, with entered France. He was holding a at the moment of recognizing Louis-Napoleon to rise above his head. But the first and soon he found himself in Six years later he escaped. It was not long before the In 1848 the Bourbons Dynasty was declared a republic. Louis Napoleon But, according to the constitution, the elected for the second term. Knowing that he would find a way On December 2, on the anniversary his nephew accomplished a coup d'etat. cruelly suppressed the resistance and personal power, and a year later Emperor Napoleon III. Soon the ex-prisoner of the countries of Europe, but at to be recognized by The coup d'etat became a direct the Bonaparte dynasty had been by the decision of the However, the European states and recognized Louis Napoleon Only Nicholas I caused a diplomatic Napoleon III not his "dear brother," as but only his "dear friends." In such that he didn't consider an When Louis-Napoleon read the From that moment on he saw in Nicholas eagerly for a chance to take revenge. "It is time to make the blood run for the defeat of 1812. Only after France it can bring back its pride. Military Russia was a perfect enemy: two many Besides, Louis-Napoleon wanted to Choosing the Russian Empire as England's sympathy. He only had to And he did find it, again in the East. To win popularity in the country, The church was showered with The Catholic priests even returned turned out by the Great French Revolution. a non-religious person, received a And they dreamt to return control of the Jerusalem and Bethlehem churches. owners. Muslim Turks for bribes gave the In the 18th century the rights to the Orthodox Christians. Few people atheism was popular at that time. But Louis-Napoleon suddenly decided to He sent a note with a demand to return to the Catholics to Turks hesitated, trying to please both was ready to take any measures to with the Catholic Church. Abdulmecid was the 31st Sultan of the He was an older son of the previous when he was 16. He fathered 11 The affairs of the empire were a entertainment events, which consisted of Constantinople, 1853 Abdulmecid since childhood was fragile the new sultan, like his father, would to destroy the wine reserves. Over 50 were taken to the coast of the Bosporus The sultan's mother decided that numerous for her son, so she started So it went that way. The sultan ruled the To impress this ruler, French 90-gun frigate the Ottoman capital. Abdulmecid preferred "Without doubt, this day will be the keys from the Bethlehem Church Valerge. Isn't it too soon to It is a matter of life and death for (Journal Des Debats) What happened in Bethlehem was Orthodox believers around the world Emperor. Nicholas picked up the Napoleon, and sent Extraordinary and Menshikov to Constantinople. Menshikov Alexander An adjutant general, marine governor-general of Finland. He was brother-in-arms, Alexander Menshikov. the Patriotic War of 1812. Menshikov was ordered by Nicholas to on the territory of the Ottoman Empire. were supposed to be granted various Russia's right to their Indeed, brave warrior Menshikov was with Turks. Subtle flattering and covert When he got to the Bosporus coast on demanded the great vizier, the sultan's at the gates of the palace. Of course, But the prince continued to violate With his retinue, he came to the instead of his parade No one was ready for such No one, except for Canning. The Menshikov's crankeries never ended. In order to make the Prince the height of the doorway in But once the trick was found out, Menshikov turned his head, bowed and one of his less flattering sides. At first such behavior yielded its fruit: Church was resolved in favor of of Menshikov's mission. In a while government a document, according the protector of all the Orthodox about such a prospect, because the sultan the Christians," who made one-third of "Don't make any concessions to Russia, Menshikov and, finally, stop being afraid Canning's phrase by heart. He was especially warmed up by the "The Russians won't dare to start a war. So Menshikov got a refusal. The prince he ordered the employees of the embassy Russia, taking all the documents For three days, Gromonosets The extraordinary ambassador was waiting But they didn't. The ship raised anchor. although he hadn't If Stratford Canning didn't intrude, But now, to make the sultan accept He ordered the 80,000-people Russian Moldavia and Walachia. But that Saint-Petersburg, 1853 Nicholas I was till the last moment it would be only against the weakened Britain his ally and was sure that Louis Russia alone. But there were no people Chancellor of the Russian Empire Karl After serving as the foreign minister Nesselrode was clearly tired of the duties to his assistants. Only the main passion, growing flowers. He often Namely inattentive Nesselrode overlooked most important European states, Britain were developing rapidly. Nonetheless, At first it seemed that the Nicholas received an offer: in exchange was demanded to withdraw the Russian And he was ready to sign this document wouldn't amend it. However, manipulator Canning, refused to Turkey declared war on Russia. Nicholas wanted to make a bold leap Constantinople. Then, as the emperor on the Bosporus. He considered that of Serbia's independence. Resolute attacks the war before the intrusion of Europe. Austria, which seemed to be a trusted Paskevich was telling the emperor if the Russian army advanced to would attack its flank, and then and the French. Nicholas said, "Jan Sobieski was the Russian emperor. Sobieski - because and I - because I saved it Paskevich was well aware that after the hadn't been rearmed. In the army military tactics, but on holding And now the Danube army was flailing the corps were staying on the same In autumn 1853, active armed hostilities with 14,000 bayonets, under the command bank of the Danube and ousted the The Russian soldiers were enthusiastic: They spent the night around the they were recalling the past events, In the morning, the brigade of only by the enemy, started an assault From the high land the enemy showered bullets. However, the Russian forces, of lower ranks, launched an attack again. the enemy, the Turks lost twice The Turks, who hadn't expect such a fortifications and get ready to leave The Russian soldiers And suddenly they heard an order to the victory was in their hands. The Turks were no less shocked, the Russians was a kind of military the soldiers that there were But there was no treachery. The advancement. Chief Commander Count of the Austrians and their attack That is why the advancement The main battle of this war was And it was already lost. Unlike the top commanders, ordinary and showed miracles of self-sacrifice. the enemy from the taking the weapons was made to take the ravine. But they before the walls there was a deep ditch. Then Private Nikifor Dvornik jumped into shouted, "Guys, go over me! It will be the ditch on the backs of their friends enemies, Nikofor Dvornik asked to of the battle. The war against the Turks was taking There was warfare in the Caucasus the Ottoman forces launched an attack: and attacked the border post in Western men with two main guns. The Russian nearly all of the servicemen were especially ardent. Bashibazouk is translated from Turkish Those were special troops of the Ottoman aggressive tribes of Asia Minor and cruelty, proneness to looting, Bashibazouks organized a they crucified local state official, a pregnant woman. "The Ottoman forces show excellent After the victory in Oltenita, a new the impregnable fortress, a Abdulmecid can now be proud of its army. However, the Turks didn't please their which were shamelessly exaggerated. At army they were mercilessly crushed. On November 14, Prince Bebutov with started to pursue the 36,000-people the Russian border, avoiding battles. to the Ottoman territory and made a the enemy, they took provision for the wounded. The Ottoman Empire, When Ahmet Pasha learned about the believe at first, and then he told his crazy, or totally drunk He ordered to make ready the ropes the generals and officers taken prisoners Ahmet-pasha didn't doubt that he would Early on November 19 Bebutov's forces embattled at the distance of two versts. An hour later Bebutov moved four battalions flank. They went down to the ravine, entering the enemy's battery, The Turks, impressed by the bravery of to face them. Then Prince Bebutov battle. The Turks started to leave forces, numbering four times less, two When the fight was over, the wounded A Russian grenadier, whose arm was and pointed at the Turkish soldier His wounds are worse." 1,100 Russians were killed The Turks lost over 6,000. Russians and a camp with the tents and provision. Having defeated the Ottoman army, could spend the winter undisturbed, But Turkey posed a threat to Russia of war included also the Black Sea. Since October the Ottoman fleet was to the Caucasus. The Russian Black at the helm was supposed to prevent this. to attack the enemy, he sent the steamboat Several days later the steamboat squadron was gathering in the bay of get ready for a big battle. Pavel Nakhimov was born in 1802 to in Vyazma district of Smolensk the Navy Cadet Corps. He took part under the command of legendary Admiral students. He took part in the Battle of was crushed. Since 1834 he was The Black Sea, 1853. The Bay of Sinop Nakhimov didn't have a family, he and he felt at home only when he When he was a lieutenant, he was nearly into the sea. After becoming an admiral, and children. In Sevastopol there or disliked Nakhimov. He remembered all The sailors were proud of their special to people under command, the discipline, fleet were many times higher than in an absolute proof of this. Having Sinop, Nakhimov found a unit of Turkish corvettes, two steamships, and This fleet was under protection of six the port. Three 84-gun battleships, stood at the entry to the harbor. The as he was waiting for the On November 16 Nakhimov was joined Novosilsky: three 120-gun battleships, and Three Saints. Two frigates Now, when the Russian squadron Nakhimov decided to attack. The Bay of Sinop, 1853 On the night of November 18 it The weather didn't change in the The tension was growing. The sailors from their ships. Only the whistle The first shot was made. The Turks It was followed by the firing from Nakhimov led the ships ahead. They started boats and the coastal batteries. At first, situation - it was surrounded Chesma helped Constantine out. Frigate fell on the coastal battery, breaking escaped the battlefield. The artillery of However, the fire from the Russian guns, destroyed the The panicking Turks were rushing about But they didn't find any rescue there either, covering them. The burning Turkish ships the Bay of Sinop. It was light The fire was everywhere. Four and a day later entire Europe Later the press of the European countries set the city on fire. Of course, this at that time was divided into two During the attack of the Russian fleet They were not afraid of the Russians But the Turkish part was empty, and the fire set by the It took only four hours to destroy the entire 3,000 Turkish soldiers, sailors, and Around 200 people were taken prisoners. and wounded, respectively. After the battle Nakhimov was looking St. Andrew's flag. The admiral was the Nakhimov understood that the A great war was inevitable. The news about the brilliant victory All Sevastopol residents met the Czar Nicholas, encouraged by awarded him with St. George's Meanwhile in London the leader of the the tribune of the House of Commons, bear's jaws. As long as his fleet and and sound, Constantinople won't be safe, Napoleon III sent to the Russian emperor from the Danube Principalities and Otherwise, Russia risked On February 9, Russia rejected the of diplomatic relations with Britain war on the Russian Empire. A day Saint-Petersburg, 1853 On March 30, Empress Alexandra saw For a few seconds Nicholas was looking Finally his face showed determination. a manifesto, by which he declared war on The diplomatic games were The Zero World War.