This video is the culmination of over 50 years of my dad cooking Egg Fried Rice well over 100,000 times. You're about to learn the battle-tested techniques that only chefs know to make the best damn fried rice possible, right at home. We'll address why using leftover rice is a myth... and how to prevent mushy, clumpy rice with proper spatula techniques. Get ready, because this video is packed with simple tips and techniques you can use to level up your cooking right away. First, let's wash the rice. We'll use fresh water to wash the rice. Rice isn't actually very dirty. You do feel better after washing it, though. Rice does have to go through processing, packaging, and transport. So we feel better when we wash it. I usually wash it about three times. When the rice is washed, put it in the rice cooker pot. I'm going to use the rice cooker today. Put the rice in. For 14 oz of rice, I'm using 14 oz of water. For fried rice, we'll use a 1 to 1 ratio of rice to water. For fried rice, cook your rice with less water. For normal rice, you'd cook with a bit more. For 14 oz of rice, you'd use about 15 oz of water. Just a bit more. Now, we'll put it into the rice cooker to start cooking. Now, we'll put the inner pot into the rice cooker and start the cooking. Push the button. Of course, the cooking time depends on how much rice you're making. My rice cooker will cook this in about 15 minutes. Now, we'll chop the green onions. We only need some green onion greens. Maybe a bit more than 1 oz. Just chop the green onions into small pieces. We'll dice only the green parts of the green onions. We don't need the white parts, I'll save them for another dish. Next, we have peas and corn. I'll add diced carrots to it too. About 2 oz of carrot. Dice into small pieces. Now we'll dice the carrot. If you want to learn how to cut twice as fast and prevent injuries, we have a free 6 minute video lesson for you. Click the link in our description or scan the QR code to access it for free! We'll first cut into strips. Then, we can just dice it. If you don't like these vegetables, you don't have to use them. I like how they add more flavor to the rice. You can skip them. Do restaurants usually include them? Restaurants typically give you plenty of green onion, maybe not so many vegetables. At home, we can be generous with ingredients. 4 eggs. We'll crack four eggs into a bowl. Then season it with salt. 1/2 tsp of salt. When we cook them, they'll be more flavorful. Just 1/2 tsp, not too much. That's enough. Set aside. We have all of these ingredients listed on our blog at madewithlau.com along with step-by-step instructions and video clips to guide you as you make the recipe at home. All right, friends. The button has popped back up on the rice cooker. That means the rice is done. We'll let it keep cooking for 2 more minutes. After 2 minutes, we'll open the lid and fluff the steam out, then we'll be ready to stir-fry it. In the meantime, these vegetables are all still raw. Add some water. We'll add just a bit of water, about a 1/3 cup. Just enough to cover the vegetables, then pop them in the microwave for 2 minutes. They'll be completely cooked. &quot;What do you avoid adding to fried rice?&quot; Don't add ingredients that contain lots of water. Bok choy and napa cabbage contain a lot of water. Gourds like wintermelon have a lot of water. It's a full family affair. We got babies on babies! Babies! Babies! After microwaving for two minutes, we can take out the veggies. The carrots, corn, and peas are all done. The bowl is very hot. Grab it with a towel. Pour the water out. We'll drain the water from the veggies. All right, with this, the fried rice won't be soggy. The vegetables are cooked but won't make the rice soggy. Isn't it convenient, cooking them in the microwave? We don't need to cook them in a pot. The rice is ready, let's open the rice cooker. Now we'll take out the inner pot and fluff the rice with chopsticks. Take the rice out and set it here. Fluff the rice. The grains are separate, the rice looks great. Not too soft. See the rice? My dad uses Thai jasmine rice for almost everything, including fried rice, or caau faan in Cantonese, because he prefers the softer textures and aromas. If you prefer harder textures, then you can consider using American long grain white rice, which has less flavor and slightly fewer nutrients. Or, you can follow what some Chinese restaurants do and blend American long grain white rice with jasmine rice. This is also why my dad prefers to make fresh rice over using leftover rice, like many other people suggest, because fresh rice is more tender and already hot. It's up to what texture you prefer. Some people like how leftover rice fries up to be very separate, and how it's harder. I personally prefer using fresh rice, especially my Thai jasmine rice. It's fragrant and tender, and it's not too hard. Do restaurants use leftover rice? Sometimes, they'll fry yesterday's leftover rice. Do they usually use leftover rice? Restaurants most commonly fry fresh rice. There's not much leftover rice at the end of the day. Once they use up leftover rice, they'll have to use fresh. In general, try to stick to long grain rice as it's not as soft or sticky as short or medium grain rice varieties. But, the beauty of fried rice is that you can make it however you prefer, so we encourage you to try multiple kinds of rice to find your favorite. Of course, if you have limited options, go with what is available to you and focus instead on the techniques or other ingredients to make your fried rice as delicious as it can be. We'll fluff the excess steam out of the rice, then stir-fry. This keeps the rice from clumping when you stir-fry it. We'll mix around the rice with our chopsticks, letting the steam come out. &quot;How do you prevent the rice from sticking together and being mushy?&quot; Don't cook the rice with too much water. Very soft rice sticks together and is difficult to fry. Also, when the rice is done, fluff air into the rice. That'll help some steam escape. Then fry it. Don't fry right away? Not right away. Fluff the rice to help it cool down before frying it. Rice from the fridge will be cold and hard. You have to-- With your hands? sure, use your hands, with gloves if you want, to loosen the rice up before you fry it. We'll fluff the rice for about 1-2 minutes. You can come try the rice. It's not too soft. And it's not too hard. This is 14 oz of rice and 14 oz of water. For softer rice, use more water. For fried rice, I like slightly harder rice. If you are using leftover rice, in addition to massaging and fluffing the leftover rice, make sure to heat it up in the microwave for 1-2 minutes to bring up the temperature before cooking. With the rice cooked and fluffed, we're ready to break out the wok. High heat. Beat the eggs. First, we'll beat the eggs. They don't need to be as thoroughly beaten as for steamed eggs. If you beat them too soon, they'll separate and release water. The wok has been heating up. Lower the heat and add 2 tbsp of oil. Scoop the oil up the sides of the wok. Make sure the wok is well-coated in oil. All right, add the eggs. We'll add the eggs and stir gently, cooking them for just 20-30 seconds. Just flip from the bottom, the eggs are very silky. Then add the rice. Patiently stir it, keep flipping it. The eggs are at the bottom, I want the eggs to stick to the rice. At this point, we're focused on mixing the egg and rice well. You must scoop all the way to the bottom. Scoop along the wok to flip. Move the spatula along the wok. Don't shove it into the food. If you stick the spatula into the middle, the food will stick. We're using a scoop-and-flip technique with a spatula here. Make sure to vary which side you're mixing, so it all fries evenly. Now, we'll gently press the rice apart. This spreads out the rice and loosens it up. If you don't loosen it up, the rice will be one big clump. We want the grains to be separate. We're stir-frying on low heat now. After cooking with the rice for about 2 minutes, we can add our next ingredient. So now, we'll add the vegetables. In restaurants, we call this a veggie mix, since it's premixed. Now, we can turn the heat up to high. Now we'll stir-fry on high and mix the vegetables with the rice. &quot;A wok versus a pan. Can you make fried rice in a pan, and which one is better?&quot; Wok. You'll get wok hei from a wok. Pans are very shallow, so you can fry small amounts of rice. You can't fry this amount of rice in a pan. But woks are much deeper, so I can use larger motions. Frying pans are flat, so it's difficult unless you can toss it. It'd be hard to fry rice with a spatula in a pan. Now the rice is starting to crackle. We start with loosening the rice, now we're frying wok hei aroma into the rice. We're on high heat now. After stir-frying on high for 2-3 minutes with the veggies in, it's time to add some flavor. Now, we'll season it. Lower the heat. Add 1 tbsp of light soy sauce. 1 tsp of dark soy sauce, just for color. I'm starting with 1/2 tsp of salt, and if it's not enough, we'll add more later. Add 1/2 tsp of sugar to balance the flavor. You can add or skip the chicken bouillon powder, it's up to you. I'm adding 1 tsp. Since I've added chicken bouillon powder, I tend not to use MSG. You could add each item individually, but mixing first, then adding is much better. You can distribute it evenly. Now, turn to high heat. Fry over high heat. Mix the seasoning evenly into the rice. You can use chopsticks to help you fry it. Using another utensil to mix the rice at the same time can be helpful, especially if your dominant hand gets tired. You can toss the wok, too. Just keep in mind the wok is metal, so it's hot. Use a towel to grip it. If you're able to, another fancy option is to toss the wok to mix all the rice at the same time. You don't have to toss it. Not everyone knows how, right? The rice will mix really well if you toss it. After another 2-3 minutes of stir-frying, we can add a couple of final touches. It's basically done. Add some oil for a silky texture. Add the diced green onion. Now just mix it well. We'll take another minute to mix everything together and we can turn the heat off. Come try it, see if it's flavorful enough. We can turn the heat off now. At this point, we can have a taste test. Add 1 tsp of light soy sauce. My dad adds another tsp of light soy sauce here to make it a bit saltier, but be sure to adjust according to your preference. Isn't it great! Yes! Now, we'll plate it. Most people just transfer the rice from the wok onto the plate. I'm going to put the rice into a bowl, then invert it onto the plate. For a beautiful presentation, you can put diced green onions in the bowl first, as well as some carrots, so when you invert the bowl, they'll be on the surface. Now, we'll just scoop the rest in. Now we'll put the rest of the rice into the bowl and compress it a bit with the spatula. Press it down, then invert the bowl onto the serving plate. It won't fall apart. Right in the middle. Just like this, see? Finally, we'll lift the bowl and reveal a beautifully round-shaped dish of fried rice. All right, friends! Our simple Egg Fried Rice is complete! I hope you all enjoy it. Hong Doy, Mui Mui, time to eat fried rice! Cheers! What kind of ingredients did you use in Toisan? Salted fish, salted shrimp! Son, salted fish and salted shrimp fried rice is delicious! Oh my god, yeah, I've had it.