Panasonic TVs are back! Baby, it's am right now. About 10 years ago, when Panasonic TVs in the U.S., I was bummed, but I did because I was convinced that Panasonic would was that it was going to end up taking Panasonic TVs--at least two of them--are back in guarantee that they're going to stay that in significant quantities. That's kind But, like, how did we get to this point? What and why did they decide to come back? That's I just happen to be unboxing a Panasonic TV this TV. This would be the W95a Mini LED TV. lot of you guys wanted me to start with the OLED, so we're going to start with this one. But like to Panasonic and what might be happening I'm going to disappear here for a second. So, back when I sold TVs--and to be clear, I representative for an Amazon competitor and back when I sold TVs, it was Panasonic, Sony, made the best tube TVs you could buy. Then, cut I started reviewing televisions, Panasonic although Samsung did come in at the very end Which is actually highly relevant because market and kind of put the hurt on the Japanese their sales go down. Not to mention the fact that what's going on here? Oh, it's just foam. Not to tsunami that hit in 2011, which kind of upended Panasonic, in particular, was hit hard. One Anyway, Toshiba--at least as we knew them--died, JVC to doing almost entirely premium televisions (at &quot;Well guys, sorry, but we're going to peace out.&quot; suspect for retailers--that was a little bit of going to survive. Now, I'm not going to pretend but I can tell you that Panasonic continued to in addition to supplying them in I'm assuming, many other places. But were still shipping TVs to the U.K. and to look on as reviewers like Vincent Teoh and I had to answer to viewers like you about Cut to today: Panasonic is back. Now, why are they time to jump back into the U.S. market. I mean, I of success--that might have something to do with do with it? Panasonic's partnership with Amazon. but the fact that Panasonic is partnered Fire TV OS in them, and Amazon is actually Now, it's worth noting that it's not like North America--it's just these two flagship models: out, let's try that again--and the Z95a OLED So, why am I so excited about Panasonic's return could use a little bit of competition. But right? And Panasonic offers another super-premium really consider themselves videophiles, for for folks who really care about their movies I've got to do a little bit of cleanup before we but notice, as I'm staring down at the input bay, four. I'm not surprised by that. I imagine this to why Panasonic TVs have been and continue to was challenging Sony in terms of image quality That has been the case for a really long time; we last 10 years. But now, we get to once again. lot of TVs in the U.S., honestly, is going to be know that Panasonic TVs can be excellent, but the generation who is just now getting into buying may not remember a time when Panasonic was North America at large. So, getting the word Now, hopefully, this TV performs as you know, I'll have lots of and I'll be doing my part to get the word out going to be up to Panasonic to reach the public This W95a 65-incher is going for, right now, right? So, the Sony 65-inch Bravia 7, which I comparing this television, is $1,600, so very step further. The 65-inch--hold on, holy [ __ Bravia 9 with the next-gen Mini LED backlight channel--the 65-inch model is $3,000, $1,300 more recording. So, if this TV can somehow bridge the price point, then I think Panasonic really has Now, granted, we have a lot of studio lights is significantly better than the Sony Bravia 7, criticisms of the Sony Bravia 7. I kind of hoped on this TV might be a little bit better than the so we'll soon know for sure if one is quick glance right now, I've got to And, since this thing was definitely used before, remote--and they are. Speaking of batteries, massive corporation. They do a lot in power, use lithium-ion cells that are made by Panasonic. they're big into all kinds of tech--they're corporation definitely does not rely on the Let's take a look at the remote real quick, I'm not going to be showing this to you. So, there is an Amazon Fire TV remote control, as you can this is probably for voice recognition. I am but, you know, that's stuff that we'll talk about this TV. Anyway, there's your remote--pretty Alright, so I'm going to go ahead and break my own which is doable. It's not that heavy. Feels Oh yeah, one other thing--this thing does system like I believe the OLED does. I but it does have a nice bass transducer with a you know, maybe it'll sound okay. Yeah. Alright, so we're plugged in. I think we should installing updates. What a world we live in when it's been a while since I messed around with is interesting. Can't go home until we connect So, we can access our inputs and obviously we're not going to get very far unless Yo, I don't have a problem with the fact that's part of the deal now. But give me right now, all I know is that it's supposedly but is it updating though? Like, how would please bake a status bar into Fire TV OS so people One eternity later--oh my gosh, this seems really goes to show, have a status bar, because than, say, Google TV does. It just seems when this is going to end. Fire TV--you I just pressed the power button. I may have doomed but like, I can't--nope, it's still going. &quot;Device is not connected to a network.&quot; That's download your update. Alright, pardon me while I kind of forgot that. You know, like I said, it's so I know that there's a lot of new stuff that screensavers and things of that nature, so kind Which popular services do you want? Yeah, we'll need any of those, got it. We can do profiles, we So, for anybody who doesn't follow my TV get the picture settings straight, at least on through and do this on all the apps too. what appears to be the picture settings, like, Um, okay, I like this. So we can set picture and apps and video--that's great. So, looks like settings. Looks like it comes in Normal, Auto Filmmaker Mode, good to see that. Been a I'm assuming that some of this is customized so I am curious to check out the True Cinema, and Professional. Because I know and just start with Filmmaker Mode. Instantly that I'm probably going to need to bump up the Auto brightness is on--I'm turning that off. You that. Auto white balance is also on--I'm going to and so it was juicing up the brightness HDR settings--wow, there's some really interesting of EOTF. That's kind of a super nerd thing. So, and it kind of defines how the TV follows which is probably what most people want and will PQ. Again, this is all super nerd stuff, so Well, we need to knock down the studio lights got to say, the screen's anti-glare treatment they're kind of level in that regard. an honest backlight evaluation, I'm way off-angle--blooming is pretty well always see the blooming and the halo, and yeah, I will say that, like, I mean, so everything should be pretty is looking really good right now. That So, guys, thank you for joining the history of Panasonic and why it's really good with the W95a. I'm really looking but we're off to a pretty rocking start have the Bravia 7 around to put against this TV. think it's going to be a fair comparison, Anyway, thank you so much for joining me in the If you did, would you let me know down in the know what you want covered in the review. I feel open to suggestions. Slap a like on this video. If share it with them. Don't forget to subscribe see you on the next one, and until then, here Anyway, that's the conclusion. Anyway, thank you.