Allahu Akbar! Allahu Akbar! [chanting] We support the Intifada! Israel is a terrorist state. I would have never said a year ago that this 30-something-percent Jews, proud Jews, Zionists, communities. This would never happen. It happened. People were being verbally, maliciously attacked for saying I believe in the right to a State of Israel. The anti-Israel sentiment has only escalated. &quot;Nazi pig! Nazi pig!&quot; The campus is going to become more and more polarized. It's been more hostile a feel on campus, which I never thought that any anti-Israel activity I've been to university campuses discussing and dealing with this issue, and I've seen They are on the frontline. They're the ones who are exposed. There are going to be moments where you feel scared, to be frank, because it's general large groups of people who seem intimidating, and who are very loud, and who seem to have power in numbers. The negativity and the loudness, the abrasiveness on campus make it difficult for me to be open about supporting Israel. It's not the most popular point of view to have to be supportive of Israel. Israel has become a hot topic on our campus. Tensions are rising. seen a much larger presence on social media. We've seen various protests. &quot;We support the Intifada!&quot; This is part of a very widespread, orchestrated anti-Israeli campaign. It's very uncomfortable for students who care about Israel. It's a little bit scary because I kind of never know how students will react to my pro-Israel Even openly talking with other students on I'm proud to be a member of Faculty for Palestine. The Students for Justice in Palestine have a huge, wide-reaching, vocal faculty support. The professors are our biggest challenge. Students come and go but with professors they stay. They're role models. Many of them have tenure, and so they can So we can say that Hamas is a terrorist organization, They also do great healthcare and kindergartens. Hamas doesn't recognize Israel. So what? You see it in Columbia, Saliba, Khalidi, Massad, they're all tenured professors and they're all expressing their very anti-Israel and &quot;Israel is one of the worst offenders worldwide. It is probably today the only racist country, &quot;Israel was basically founded as a Jewish state on land that was ethnically cleansed Pro-Israel students sitting in classrooms opinions. They- if they raise their hands, they Nothing could be more opposed to the spirit of what a university education should really It's a disaster for academia and for the university As a student, the power dynamics are there. I feel powerless in a sense, and very intimidated knowledge are basically invalidating everything I support. The tactics on campus have changed. For example, Students for Justice in Palestine have become more organized, more strategic, more focused. Working within the system, they've learned They gather under the umbrella of BDS, which It really permeates social media. And students find out about it, and the network far more than just the campus where the activity We're seeing a real problem on many campuses, Reports say anti-Israel events in the U.S. college and university campuses has more than doubled in the fall, compared to the same period last year. The more than 75 events against Israel were held on U.S. universities and colleges this fall. One of the alarming things we've been seeing Campus police are trying to figure out who spray painted swastikas all over the Jewish Yale University, three swastikas were drawn outside a freshman dorm. University of New Mexico police are trying to find out who scratched a swastika onto We've heard many instances of students feeling bullied. F*** you, Zionist scums. Get the f*** out of here!&quot; There are some campuses where students actually Magen David, or a kippah on campus. But this is rare, especially in the U.S. campuses. A little different in Canada. The first time that you experience something like this, it's so totally intimidating, and you're going to be taken aback by it, and that such a thing could happen on your college campus. New at 11 - tensions between Jews and Palestinians tonight. Some fake fliers passed out by students. The flier has the headline &quot;Eviction Notice: scheduled for demolition in three days.&quot; At the very bottom, in small print, it said, what Palestinians suffer from every day under People felt intimidated that these were slipped under the door at night, anonymously. I think a lot of students feel harassed and uncomfortable in their own living situations.These eviction notices, they're not interested in creating any solutions. The people who do this have no interest in We Palestinians have nothing to dialogue about with Zionists. When we reach out to them, they will not dialogue with us. The will not sponsor an event that is both It's really hard to dialogue with people who As a person who spent much of his life speaking Hebrew Michael Oren, propaganda and murder is not an expression of free speech. Whenever pro-Israel students have events, shout down the speaker. They will stage a walkout. In some cases, even curse at the speaker. They're notorious for doing this. My only purpose today is that this event is Nonie Darwish speaks for Israeli apartheid. And genocide at the hands of the IDF. It sounds like it was a very specific thing that happened nationally. They had their very specific scripts, that how Nonie Darwish supports Israeli apartheid. It's nationally organized. It's not something that students came up with Of course, they can be legitimate criticism of Israel. If you take a look at Israel's news, you see week. But there's a difference between criticizing With anti-Zionism often it takes the form So there's kind of this fine line. Definitions of anti-Semitism change. The way you oppose Jews in any given era is different. Now we live in the time of the Jewish state. So because this is the era of the Jewish state, And what are the Jewish people doing right now? Are you doing enough to stop your racist, Anti-Semitism is like racism. It's not -- it's not a fashionable thing It's not really -- it's an illegal activity But anti-Zionism is not illegal, and it becomes a proxy for anti-Semitism. When they protest vehemently &quot;We're not anti-Semitic, we are anti-Zionist,&quot; now there are certain I like Natan Sharansky's definition of anti-Semitism. He calls is the &quot;3 Ds&quot;. If we see that Israel is either Delegitimized, the argument against Israel, that would qualify With delegitimization, Israel's very founding And if Israel is illegal in the first place, there, to defend themselves. Israel is a settler colonial project that The Zionist State of Israel, in and of itself, They're not saying let's have these borders. They're saying let's have all of Israel gone. Israel has no right to exist. &quot;From the river to the sea, Palestine will What it essentially means is that from the meaning the Mediterranean Sea, Palestine will be free, meaning all of Israel as it currently exists will be dissolved. And in its place will be a Palestinian state. The two-state solution is off the table. No, one state. And check this out. One state, majority rules\'a0-- us, the Muslims. In focusing so much on the Palestinian's right to self-determination, which I totally believe in, people completely forget about the Jewish If you are an anti-Zionist, what you are essentially saying is that the Jews have no right to live homeland. It's not your homeland. You all came from Europe. It's not your homeland. With demonization, oftentimes we see context the Israelis, as though whatever they do is want to torture, abuse, or humiliate the Palestinians. There can be thousands of rockets that come into Israel. And then Israel responds. They only look at the response. I don't think it's acceptable criticism of Israel becomes the big, bad devil.\ hooked noses, and sucking children's blood. And I think that is classic anti-Semitism. &quot;Five, six, seven, eight, Israel's an apartheid &quot;This is not self-defense. This is a genocide.&quot; state. They call Israel an apartheid state. They say that Israel's committing genocide. And if anyone has ever been to Israel they They try to associate buzzwords. For example, Zionism and racism, they put the other. if you have never heard of Zionism, the first with is racism. And then when pro-Israel students claim to head oh, well, you must be racist. So that's a way that they sort of use language agenda. Most grotesque of all, and unfortunately quite with Nazi Germany. The ultimate scandalous inversion of our time, so repulsive and yet commonplace.\ Students for Justice in Palestine hold an they lie about Israel for a week in a way \ The Nahkba was a campaign of genocidal ethnic to carve out their own colonial entity in \ where there's going to be a lot of students use public displays to demonize Israel.\ There's people who are pretending to be soldiers Filthy Arab. An Israeli life is worth more than all of You have apartheid walls put up in major sections classes, accusing Israel of being apartheid, All of this is meant to demonize, to not give And they go out and do this on campus because little about Israel. \ They were having a &quot;die-in&quot; which is students of campus. They're kind of trying to intimidate and frighten \ to a higher standard than any other country \ are focusing on, human rights issues in general, with the human rights violations that are Syria, China, other countries that are committing never discussed. \ The one conflict that the world seems more between Israel and the Palestinians.\ for example. There is a good exercise in double standards. \ When you take all of the condemnations that in places in Africa, in Ukraine, and all these the majority of resolutions coming out from world, the majority are against Israel.\ Israel is the biggest violator of human rights \ are still committed.\ \ They're barely interested in it. Only obsess about Israel. This is the anti-Semitism of our time. It's not even a question.\ One of the most recent examples of the double \ Frankly, this has gone global.\ is really what's changing the equation.\ &quot;With a vote of 20 - 12 - 1, that passes.&quot;\ \ last two years, we've seen a greater frequency to student governments. What we see in their tactic generally is that and then call for punishment, and the punishment doing business in Israel. If divestment passes, which it has on a few \ Even if they're not actually going to pull statement, and it makes it seem that the student \ &quot;Divest! Divest!&quot;\ I think we need to be concerned about what It is very hateful. There are lies told.\ of this university to vote for the divestment \ I walk around in my T-shirts that say Israel I walk around with a Jewish star. I have friends that walk around in kippot. And it's fine, no one's going to attack you No one's going to start yelling at you in \ like during this divestment vote. Students are definitely intimidated. A lot of the pro-Palestinian students were the pro-Israel students who spoke at the meeting.\ Pro-Israel students faced threats. Students were also called &quot;Dirty Jews,&quot; things Especially those on central student government you live, like vote with us or else.\ All of these disparaging insults, accompanied and other members of central student government To say that this is a non-violent, peaceful Especially with the number of emails and harassing calls that have caused me to miss class for \ and for now, things are calm. But we definitely expect BDS to be back again, \ voted to endorse a boycott of Israel's academic They're boycotting academics, which is like is what universities are supposed to be teaching; important. This boycott singles out Israel. It doesn't boycott any other country, academically.\ They created an ASA town hall where the town about the pros and cons of the boycott, had Every single one of them was in favor of the None of them advocated a two-state solution.\ by the end of occupation. They weren't talking about 1967 borders. They were talking about the establishment \ This was condemned and denounced by 250 presidents I think academic boycotts are abhorrent, if Of all the countries in the world that might idea that there's only one that is worthy \ create such pressure that this nation will A lot of anti-Semitism is exactly about that. The long history of anti-Semitism is full which has been a chosen weapon of anti-Semites \ really started out in the early 2000s with and Ali Abunimah. \ Definitely, most definitely we oppose a Jewish Until the Zionist State of Israel ends, we \ not a sell-out Palestinian, will ever accept \ This is something that is not acknowledged Students, they aren't aware of the aim of And Norman Finkelstein, someone who is not it in kind words, has stated this as well.\ We have to be honest. And I loathe the disingenuousness. They don't want Israel.\ movement advocating for a two-state solution. They're not trying to use boycotts and sanctions Israelis and the Palestinians. They're trying to do these things to demonize \ You have to at least be honest what you want. We want to abolish Israel, and this is our \ Pro-Israel students who want to stand up against And often, their voices are drowned out, even \ after the student body president poured a calling for OU to cut all ties with Israel. \ As student senate president, I'm sending a in Gaza, and occupation of Palestine by the I'm urging you and OU to divest and cut all and businesses.\ That video is causing outrage on the Ohio the nation. \ This was not the time and the place to do \ the students reacted very strongly. People were shocked and didn't understand, and hurt. She did this not as a student. She did this as the student senate president.\ to support Israel and to take a stance against So we went to the student senate meeting. And being on the senate floor with 100-plus When you have people screaming at you and &quot;You're a disgusting bully!&quot;\ Do you keep doing what you're doing when the \ They were under attack. They were\'a0-- a room totally outnumbered, filled with hate.\ \ Nazis, right on the student senate floor. Just seeing the amount of support that the student senate who were elected as representatives me like where it hurts. Like it wasn't\'a0-- these are people who \ And this body won't either.&quot;\ To see professors down there trying to assault that\'a0-- that was just disgraceful. I was embarrassed to go to Ohio University \ As Becky and Gabe were reading these letters and arguing against the academic boycott of called the campus police to basically stop But they wanted to get their message out. And they wanted to take a stand, and finally \ Becky Sebo is arrested after refusing to stop meeting. \ Student Senate President Megan Marzec says spoke out of turn.\ I saw Becky arrested, and getting taken out I couldn\'92t just sit there in the back of And I stood up, and went to the front of the about why universities won't divest from Israel.\ Being arrested for speaking my beliefs, showing I never thought would happen to me in my life. \ \ We thought it would be over right there. I had no idea that we'd be taken down to the Being charged with a crime, the charges have I saw the pending criminal trial. That's where it kind of crosses the line.\ Because the student senate tried to silence senate actually decided to resign. \ and what do we do? We disrupt them when they're speaking. We change when they sit down. And we have them arrested for speaking out. All legitimacy we had as a student government last Wednesday. I'm therefore standing before you this evening immediately.&quot;\ After what's happened, I definitely feel more and support Israel. The Jewish community here in Athens definitely everything that's happened.\ I've learned from this situation to not be And I've learned that from history, from my confronted with lies and with hurtful words. Standing your ground and not fleeing, but \ in their Jewish identity and doesn't know Israel, is going to be much more exposed, \ Perhaps one of the most important things Jewish is happening, what the situation is\'a0-- It's not an easy subject to get your head in order to stand up for yourself, stand up of Israel.\ There's so many students across the United love Israel. So we all need to rise and say we are Zionist, \ Zionism is essentially the Civil Rights movement It essentially states that the Jews have a historical homeland. \ The core of Judaism is linked to the Land There is no country, I would say, that has living in Israel. Returning to Israel, or having always lived \ And we see the same values in Israel as we of religion, freedom of the press, gay rights, we share so much in common with someplace of countries that don't have those freedoms \ the rest of the Middle East can become. \ And students really can make a difference.\ 8,000 people for Israel&quot;\ We stand with Israel.&quot;\ In Israel, it's an 18-year old's responsibility In America, England, Canada, wherever you to defend Israel on your campus. \ For other students who are dealing with similar that we're here for you. There is so much support for Israel, and for \ now more than ever is the time for you to It's a time for you to learn more so that And you'll be surprised, if you're vocal and be part of a movement to support the State \