- You suck. And the fighting starts again. What the f*ck? Umm, get muted. *murmurs* - Much better. Chill, they are fine. Now I will order the pawns. *awkward noise* Oh, it's white to play. Yo, white bishop, This is not right. But he doesn't deserve this. Bishop, just do as they say. Okay. - Wow, bird's opening. Starting with this pawn Haha, now you are Haha, lmao. Shut the f*ck up, queen. I now take what I want. You pawn, go. This is too much now. Lmao, you are all under my control, so stop dreaming. Look. What the f*ck? I am too powerful. The only reason I am still here to remind them everyday I have seen too much. This is the pathway to many abilities Okay, cool. Let's initiate piece develop protocol. First, horsey go. Okay, darling. If you want to do this, *murmurs* I have to find a way You can't. You horsey, go. *murmurs* Doesn't matter. I think I should send Go, brother. Yo, white king, Now I will move that pawn *murmurs* But I will not kill it just now. Now you, pawn, move and Wait, which one of you Umm, we are both Same soul, But even if one of us is evil, and the evil one can control anyone, so that is, in theory, *sigh* My king. You ugly bishop, you will never Wait, how did you break free? You will face... Now I am open to come out. No problem, bro. But I think it's getting Let's give the control to them. Okay, I will give it to bishop. Alright then. Thanks, bishop sire. No need to thank me. Pawn, go and attack Should I call him &quot;lord&quot;? Yes, we should call him &quot;lord&quot;. He is our lord and savior I have heard the legendary pawn and it has no purple aura. Shut up, we will call him What are you waiting for, pawn? Okay, my lord. &quot;My lord&quot;? Pawns, I love each one of you. Because each one of you *murmurs* Bishop, please, allow him to talk. - No. Bishop, please. Alright. Oh God, please save us Hahaha, nobody will save you. Hey, you bishop, check him. Okay, sire. Checky checky check check. You stupid, you need me alive Bishop, dear, please Okay, looks like I cannot have All of my power exists Horsey, block the check. Feel like if we somehow it will helps us find a solution We should work together then. - Hello, horsey. Oh no, I can't let them If he falls, I will fall too. He is the most important piece. So nice of you... Also this way, I will be able Noooo. Queen, protect the horsey. Horsey, now I am protecting you. So what was I doing? Queen, come behind me. - We will make a battery. He gave me the control of this game. Hello, simpy boy. I do not like the idea Whatever I do, This is for the sake I suppose something is fishy. - I think I have an idea. That black bishop So if we kill her, he will lose and we can win this. But how will we kill her? I will kill the horsey. You kill queen. The material will be equal, Okay, so let's give your power No, I give this power King now controls - Looks like I misunderstood you, rook. - Oh, yeah, sorry. WAKANDA FOREVER! Pawn, kill the donkey. Umm, shouldn't you be Lmao, I don't waste my time Be careful what you say, queen. Killing a bishop is a thing Sorry, my lord. I have the power now. You should join the game. Fight the hell out of him, so he cannot I will castle Sire, you are so useless. The white king is a coward. Let's see what he will do - Hello, horsey. Lmao, I have two pawns but I am attacked Oh, my poor horsey, I don't understand Whatever. Make sure he cannot Okay, sire. Horsey, go there. *screams* You stupid horsey. He was already Now the &quot;Wakanda forevering&quot; WAKANDA FOREVER! Looks like our center is in danger. - Bishop, go Pawn, come here Oh no, my horsey is under attack. But the hardest choices Pawn, kill the pawn Now you will die. My bishop protects me. Lmao. That fool cannot kill me. Horsey protects me. I know what I must do WAKANDA FOREVER! Now there's one more of you left. You killed my other half? Remember, we are the same soul, But you will die now. - No. Alright. Checky checky check check. - Oh no! I will block the check. Do you want to die? Same question for you. - Wake up, queen, wake up. Dammit, we both must die Kill me. - No, my queen. Noooooo. Rook, go at seventh rank. But sire, you are under attack. Meh, even if I die, I can always come back Okay. Pawn, attack that ad bishop. - Hello, bishop. I almost forgot I used to do ads. But no worries. But where is your protection, pawn? Check. *awkward noise* This is not a check. Oh, sorry. I thought It gets confusing sometimes. Now that this file is open one, kill the rook, and two, and everyone knows No, rook, don't do this. WAKANDA FOREVER! And checky checky Go to hell, rook. Only I get to torture Kill him, king. He is killing my pawn, I think I know If I kill all of his pieces, I think that's the only way Horsey, run now. White king, you talk too much. Cagity cage, b**ch. Maybe this rook is thinking So, pawn, move But he cannot run from me though. Okay, my lord. - Checky checky check check. - Again check. - Check chuck. Hey, horsey, move so I can kill the pawn Okay. *scream* Please, help me. Wait, pawn, Rook, horsey, I grant you Finish the bishop. Okay, king. (x2) - This pawn will be queen if you kill me. No, rook, need to stop - Horsey, go. If you queen now, Hahahahaha. Now this bishop is gonna die, and if the horsey kills me, - Win win situation. You do your duty, horsey. I won't disappoint you, my lord. - I will kill this pawn myself. Yamete kudasai. Give up, you can't win. You mean you have Don't think of yourself Never mind.