Whale strikes did happen, that would pursue boats of whalers when they were out hunting Hi. I'm Jim Delgado. I'm a maritime archeologist and historian. I've been in the business for 45 years and worked on over 100 Today we're going to be in movies and TV and Lost. Not gone. Didn't happen. It's pure Hollywood. We're talking about Magellan's ships. Fernao de Magalhaes, as he was called, went out into the Pacific He starts out with five ships, and basically one gets home. The wrecks that were left behind, one went up on a beach and was burned, the other one sank. So discovering a ship from Magellan in an underground cave in the Philippines, ain't gonna happen. Cloves. Those cloves would have been, first off, not even still in a barrel. They would not have retained any smell. But there's more to it &quot;Oh, yeah. Right.&quot; They're sitting in a cave. It's open. Rain's going to get in there, and dry rot is going to set in real fast. The fact that you still have sails intact after 400 years, no. That you have the wood intact, Here's your gold you've been looking for. You happy now? Oh, no. I've only worked on one wreck where we found a tiny little This myth of shipwrecks having treasure has been disastrous for archeology. We know more about ancient than we do about the ships because everybody thinks and treasure hunters have just That drives me crazy. Holy s---. The gold? Yeah. It would have survived. It would've been that way, but you start kicking gold over like that, that beautiful mask would've been dented. Gold is soft. So unless he wanted to melt it down, he was really not being That chopper would not have been able to pick this big, heavy thing up. It's not only got the it's got ballast. It's The condition this thing is in, no matter the net or not, Whenever we raise a ship, For about every dollar we we spend over $10 to take So it's rare when we'll I'd give this a one out of No way. I'd never try to thread It's way too tight, and all the wrecked ships would be a clear warning sign to me to not go there unless I What we generally call a setting dangerous places where They're places with reefs that generally aren't seen and that includes spots where there's plenty of wrecks, or the Dry Tortugas, off the coast of Florida. Terrible as that is, you see sharks occasionally around wrecks because wrecks usually attract fish. For sharks, that's I'll give it a three out of 10. OK, take her up and over the bow rail. The submersibles are real. They're the Mir-1 and the Mir-2. They're no longer working, I was part of an expedition in 2000, and I came back as chief scientist. We completely mapped all These subs are 6 feet in diameter. Nickel steel, really thick. Those tiny little portholes are set in, made of thick Lucite, because you have to withstand 6,000-pounds-per-square-inch pressure. This gives you a sense of This is an ordinary Styrofoam cup that I brought down in a mesh bag tied to the outside of the sub. This full-scale Styrofoam and this tough by That's real footage. So, in making the movie, Cameron's actually explored and those things that dangle down, we see them on deep-water metal wrecks. They're called rusticles, but it's not really a There's a bacteria that lives down there called titanicae Halomonas that and it actually eats the metal. Titanic is slowly being eaten, but it's not going to The scientists that we've worked with estimate that there will still be a recognizable hull of OK, let's drop down to B deck. OK, A deck. This is absolutely 100% accurate. These robots are ROVs, for In my last mission to Titanic, in 2010, we didn't go in subs, we sent those down, and with these robots and you could see so much more of Titanic. Brock: That's Hockley's bed. [James sighs] This brings back a lot of memories. Everything we saw, for You see personal items. I've never seen the piano, Having seen other footage that from Jim's dives, where you see remains of chests that still have chinaware in them. When they went into that cabin, the first thing you That's real. The bed is real. Now, then they reproduced that in the film to give you that sense of being inside. So I can see the difference with what was shot on set. Those are the crisper, Whereas on Titanic, the and thanks to that work we have a much better sense that we never would've had before. I'd give this film a 10 out of 10. Hit. Hit. Yes. Oof. There's always a bit But I think this is a of what happened when the USS Indianapolis was torpedoed by the towards the end of World War II. Of close to 1,200 guys, 316 This is the single greatest loss of life in a single ship that It looked like three torpedoes We have a sense from survivor accounts and looking at the wreckage and one did hit near the bow The other one hit amidships, Hitting it amidships, right in the heart, not only opened up another big hole, it also killed the power. And you see that the engine They have lost steam. Electrical systems are down. That was the fatal blow. Jump now! As to whether or not the torpedo's or that's other things, it's hard to say. Now, I've looked at a by a Japanese ship using What I saw was it creates a bubble of super-pressurized water that just tears through the Jump! You couldn't stay on the ship. It was going to be sure death. If you can't get that fire out, the smartest thing to Generally, abandon ship is supposed to be a more orderly thing, but you have flames everywhere, and men were walking through those fires, they were being burned, that is rapidly spreading the fire not only throughout the Clearly, in that case, there's in the boats and do this So, pretty accurate, The way they depict the sinking more or less confirms not but also Capt. Hashimoto of witnessed the end of Indianapolis. But what also helps inform it was the rediscovery of the And that is how a big ship like that, even a heavily armored warship, no power, no pumps, fires everywhere, the ship open to the sea is I would give this a nine out of 10. I can't watch this without thinking, &quot;There but for the grace of God go I.&quot; This story speaks to a ship because an amazing book and then a film. But in 1991, Andrea sails out in this perfect storm that claimed them and other ships. Many years ago, I was part to try to find Andrea Gail, But what the film shows is them encountering, Rogue waves usually are not storm waves. They're a big wall of water and come out of nowhere They used to be misbelieved. But now that we have satellite views, we can actually see them from This wall of water is pretty big. Bigger than perhaps I might have thought. I think there's a little bit There was nothing they could do other than try to go over that wave. If you turned around and tried to run, it would've came right down on them and sent them straight to the bottom. In some conditions, ships do capsize. When a ship capsizes, it's basically caught by If there's air trapped inside the hull, it can stay afloat for some time. In this case, what we see is that the air gradually comes and the crew deep inside are trapped. This movie captures the essence of what it means to have and not be able to come home. For that, I give &quot;The Perfect Dory: Hey, look, balloons! It is a party! So, what we see is a wartime wreck. It's a submarine. As to Looks sort of like an American-type In a minefield. The type Yeah, that's a little more common to, say, the World War I era than But yes, there have been submarines that have been found in naval minefields, but you just wouldn't have because after wars, they going around and getting That torpedo would've been deadly. Explosives can last a Anytime we've been on you stay away, because they could go off. Depending on how deep the water is and the length of the bubble it might not be seen on the surface and maybe only as a as the two pelicans experience. My granddaughter loves it. And so in terms of Kaylee's satisfaction, Grandpa'd give it a 10 out of 10 for that. In terms of accurately I'll give it a five. What we see here is what we Ships are designed to keep water out. So when water starts to come if you can't keep pumping it out -- pumps are the only means that you have to keep water then you lose your buoyancy This gives us a sense of when and your ship takes a battering and you just can't stop I've been in a storm at If they hadn't been able and to get the ship upright, I'd be down at the bottom of the sea now with the rest of the team. So this brings back a of how easy it is to go I'd give this film an eight out of 10 in terms of depicting caught in the grip of Whale strikes did happen, that would pursue boats of whalers when they were out hunting What we're looking at of Nat Philbrick's book which tells the story of the whaler Essex, which on the Pacific in 1819 or rammed by a whale and sunk. But the whale damages more in this scene and in a different way Owen Chase is the mate. His story, as well as the talk of a whale that may and in that, the edges of and keeping the water out so the water began to come in. But not so fast as to The way they depicted things It stayed afloat for enough time to elapse so these guys could get supplies, get their boats ready, But what they're doing You take sails and other cover for your guys in And the fire, that didn't happen. I'll rate the film, based on What these guys were trying to do is probably turn the steering a bit, and they're turning that to push their vessel So, turning bow thrusters alone, and they basically have propellers, they're not really there for navigation, and I doubt they would So, plausible that they knew and were just trying to and to give them a little extra leverage to stay off the other ship. Given the angle they had Those vessels are built strong. I could see that not punching Striking the other vessel like that could have ended in them locking up, certainly slowing them down a bit. [laughs] Wow. It's possible they could given the speed they were, but what kind of a seawall is there? If it was running up on a I would say that the ship probably would've stopped before that. But then you wouldn't have had that moment where it comes in and scares the tourists and the guy with his fancy car and the great scene with I mean, that's just Hollywood I'll give this a seven out and it does give you a and why we try to keep them It's entirely possible for a ship to break apart and to split, particularly in the early with welding as opposed to So what we're looking at of a real-life event where two tankers, and the one we're looking at is Pendleton, split in two in a storm They're World War II-built tankers. Quickly assembled, welded, and these T2 tankers, as they were called, some of them had welding problems. And what happened with these ships is they broke in two, bow and stern. It's entirely plausible. These ships, particularly were built knowing, with the battle of the Atlantic with watertight bulkheads, you could stay afloat. In terms of navigating it, purposely being steered into a shoal, that's not what history says. What history says is and it was driven there by the force of the storm and the waves. So while this is a you do get the sense of and keeping steam up and some I'll give it a nine out of 10. At 800 feet. Passing through thermocline. All my life support is in the green. Wow. I've worn one of those suits in a moon pool to test it out. They're called a one-atmosphere suit. Basically, it's like a suit of armor that you wear like a sub. Hard suits were rated to go initially about The depth they're at, perfectly right. Salazar: It's a phantom jellyfish. The phantom jellyfish is absolutely real. I think all told, less than 30 have been They do glow, and those arms, They can be as deep, we've seen, as up to 21,000 feet. And it's another reminder that there's so much life down but that we are constantly encountering. Salazar: I've never seen one this color. Salazar, we just lost Jackson's vitals. Checking vital signs is You gotta do it. You got a human being in that. Not counting Namor and in terms of depicting what these suits do, I'd give that scene a 10 out of 10. My favorite shipwreck in a movie or a show has to be &quot;Titanic,&quot; because it's a wreck that everybody knows, and it's a wreck that has been depicted in movies throughout time. And all of them ultimately focus on why I, as an archeologist, These are people stories, and through shipwrecks we Thank you for watching, and if you enjoyed this video, why don't you click on the video above?