(gritty rock music) - '69 was my year (chuckling). You know, I thought I was gonna become this gifted, brilliant person (laughing). We all felt that way. - There was the Sunset Strip, you can go to the Whisky, you could, you know you could party. A lot of drugs, a lot of and free love was all over the place. It was a great place to live. - Really felt like the and anything could happen there. We all thought, &quot;Wow, we're gonna make &quot;a huge difference in this world. &quot;We are going to inspire That's what it was like. - And it really was a perfect storm. I mean, all those things wanting to leave the '50s behind. And the drugs and the music, of the drugs had on the music, we really thought we had We really thought we had But sorry, that isn't But we really thought that was, really, wait a minute, we really believed, for a while anyway, that - You're young, and you think you know what the hell's going on, and that's exactly what we felt in 1969. But we didn't know. And it can turn ugly really fast. - Charlie was a really sharp little man coming out of prison and jail. And so if you can survive imagine what you can do on the street where everybody's peace, love, Charlie must have been in 'cause he went right to the Haight, you know, right to San Francisco. Charlie was the fox, was in the hen house. Dracula was in charge of the blood vein. - He found all of these zonked out, believing in and sleeping with one another. He collected girls because That's one of the ways that he survived. They took care of him. - He would tell them that and talk about the damage so he kinda sucked 'em in. - They all would have had normal lives had they not met Charlie. Patricia Krenwinkel is because she was already She was working at an insurance company. She met him at a house where he was singing, so it was a man with a guitar, singing. And he saw her and he said, He took her into the bedroom. Patricia Krenwinkel was truly homely. She had this hormonal imbalance that caused hair to She was very insecure, to say the least. And he took her in this room and he said, &quot;Take off all your clothes, &quot;and look in the mirror. &quot;I want you to see how beautiful you are.&quot; And she left with him, left and never came back. That to me is the key to Manson. He said, &quot;I told people &quot;what they wanted to Hey for livin' The time keeps on flyin' Think your lovin' baby And all you're doin' is cryin' Can you feel - When Manson came down to Los Angeles from the Haight in San Francisco, and Mary Brunner and and I don't know if They ended up sort of living around, and Charlie was trying to - Charlie could sit down and play a guitar with three chords with flies, and sing a song about He did have a talent. In fact, if you tried to it kind of was rap music. It was just kind of a conscious flow. Just to say love's not enough If you can't be true You can tell those lies, baby But you're only fooling you - [Sandi] He ran across Dennis Wilson, and Dennis was, of course, and he was intrigued by Charlie. - Dennis called me up, said, &quot;Hey, Greg, you've gotta He called him The Wizard at the time. He was very interested in becoming part of the music scene. This was what Charlie had his eye on. That's why Dennis, The Beach Boys, and then Terry Melcher, producer, more than anything, that - Manson met Dennis Wilson &quot;Oh, wow, this palace here,&quot; and some of his followers Manson and the family and they kind of trashed the place. - The Beach Boys were going on the road, so Dennis had to go out on the road. He says, &quot;Greg, man,&quot; he says. &quot;Can you get me out of here?&quot; So I was, &quot;Yeah,&quot; I went to We moved out, like, in one day. - So Dennis Wilson is deeply And I think most people know that The Beach Boys recorded that was originally on their 1968 album &quot;20/20.&quot; But Dennis Wilson rearranged the song and changed the lyrics rather than &quot;Cease to Exist&quot; and turned it into a ordinary love song. - See, Charlie wasn't sophisticated enough when it comes to the music business to know what he gave away. So Dennis paid him for it, but I don't think Charlie He was giving an that could earn money. And that was one of the things Charlie went after Dennis for, and Dennis was saying, you know, &quot;Come on, Charlie, you - I mean, as a kid, those lyrics, 'cause we covered the song in '81, and I don't think I really - Well, they're very simple, - so they can be taken many ways. Like &quot;Cease to Exist,&quot; it's - Well, &quot;submission is a gift.&quot; - Yeah, yeah, it's kind &quot;Love is free, come to your brother. &quot;Make love to me.&quot; - &quot;Make love to them.&quot; &quot;Submission is a gift, &quot;come on, give it to your brother.&quot; - I think it was, he was trying to exploit the free love movement at (psychedelic rock music) Give up your world Come on, you can be I'm your kind - &quot;Cease to Exist&quot; is saying, you know, stop being, let me tell you what you are. - Endless love. it's pure 100% unadulterated brainwashing to drugged-out teenagers. Give up your world Come on, you can be I'm your kind - Charlie was really counting on Melcher to do something with him, And Terry, I know, gave him He told Charlie, you &quot;your music is really good, &quot;I really like your music, &quot;but I don't, it's just not my cup of tea. &quot;I don't know what to do And I think that really put Charlie into a really downhill mood. You walk on, walk on I love you, pretty girl My life is yours - He found a chord in young people because he told them He's a con man. He conned people all of his life. He had to to survive. - We all know that he had He probably learned it in prison, and he focused it on these women that he carefully chose didn't have much self-esteem. - And he said he loved them. I don't think he did, but He indoctrinated them into this idea that he was God. - I think those young women who was sort of a father figure. He was older, he was quite - The basic core of it It was not a cult. You had Charles Manson gets out of prison with a very high libido and sees that free love and orgiastic sex is now the accepted thing, and he went for it. And his relationship with these women is what it was about. - One of the things he said to me is, &quot;My name's Manson, I'm the son of man.&quot; Well, he tried to turn that into a thing that he was Jesus returned. - You look at these girls, and they look like the cute you know, girls at the-- - Older sisters, - or the foxy girl at the beach. - And they were sweet, they were nice, they were nice girls. I had a crush on Ruth Ann Moorehouse. I suppose a lot of And Charlie used to dangle her around because, anyway, just one of the girls. They were nice, and they were I mean, he was the, he was the boss, he was the man. He ran the show. - Every one of the followers, in a way, was a victim of Charlie. Charlie was the evil genius. - During the trial, as I said, all of the family members who testified testified that they believed was the absolute, honest-to-God gospel, that Charlie was a messiah, that was going to save them, that they would go to the desert, that they would find a bottomless pit, that they would hide there. And after the race war, they would come out, and Charlie - Charlie loved The Beatles, and he thought they were talkin' to him. And so &quot;Helter Skelter&quot; and they were gonna go out to the desert, the black men and the white people were gonna have this war, and they were gonna I mean, it was so bizarre to me that I didn't really pay because once again, it was the '60s, and people were getting stoned, and so on. So &quot;Okay, Charlie,&quot; you know. - Manson's whole ethos was that somehow he was part of the pop culture business. He was like, he wrote a song So he thought he was He was convinced he was important. And that's, I think, why you know, a Beatles song, Oh, it's very L.A.-centric, too. He's a striver, trying to He's surrounded by kind - They were at a place on where it started. And they would spend hours listening to The Beatles' &quot;White Album&quot; And what they determined was that The Beatles weren't The Beatles were the locusts written about in Revelation 9 of the Bible. The locusts were gonna fly and start Armageddon. And through &quot;The White Album,&quot; The Beatles or the locusts were to rise up and start the revolution. &quot;The White Album&quot; plays So you have &quot;Helter Skelter,&quot; you have a song in there called &quot;Piggies.&quot; &quot;Piggies out with their piggy wives, &quot;clutching their forks and &quot;What they need is a damn good whacking.&quot; - I put my soul into the sound. That's in my music, see. But that's what they won't let me get out. And then every time they then all of the kids rise up, and they kill a bunch of people. And then they say, &quot;Oh, you're, up.&quot; Well, why are we, up? Who is it that says that up over my music, you dig what I'm sayin'? (introspective electronic music) - I received a telephone call and said, &quot;My God, Rona, &quot;you have to over to Sharon Tate's house.&quot; And I immediately threw on and drove around until I got to Cielo. I think I was the first journalist that was up there. (suspenseful electronic music) They had a driveway that And so I started to walk up the hill. I could see there were a couple of bodies up on this next level. The police were all around, and the detectives were there, and they said, &quot;Miss &quot;You've got to go out.&quot; I said, &quot;Just tell me, &quot;I can't say anything, I So I started to walk down the hill. A very dear friend of named Bill Tennant, I yelled out, &quot;Bill, just tell me, is she inside, &quot;is she inside?&quot; And he looked at me and went, that's it, just a little nod of the head. And I just like, I couldn't believe it. And she was murdered. The baby was dead, and everybody else who might - Sharon Tate and her friends and it was the biggest story - Sharon Tate was the and she was begging and not to kill her. And Susan Atkins said she and she said, &quot;Look, bitch, &quot;or your baby. &quot;You're gonna die, and you'd &quot;and I don't feel a thing about it.&quot; Voytek Frykowski was very close friends with Roman Polanski. Frykowski was asleep on the front sofa, and Watson pointed the and said, &quot;I'm the devil Abigail Folger was the heiress And Steven Parent, talk about being in the wrong place at the wrong time, Parent came up apparently to Watson went up to the car, and Parent begged for his life. He said, &quot;Please don't shoot me. &quot;I won't say anything. &quot;I'm just on my way out, And Watson shot him four And then went on from there. - [Rona] When the and I remember saying, &quot;Oh - When Leno's body was discovered, he had a pillowcase over his head, and he had a carving fork in his abdomen. And Krenwinkel had carved in large letters the word war. When Leno was taken to and the pillowcase was taken off, they found that he had a knife with the handle sticking out of one side and the blade traversing his neck, partly sticking out of the other side. - That really set off the chain of fear that spread all over the area because people felt that maybe there were these serial killers at large who were just killing people, or maybe it was a copycat Whatever it was, it terrified Los Angeles. - I think everyone went Everyone was scared. No one wanted to go out. Everyone wanted protection. You know, anything could happen to anyone. That's what I recall, including myself. There emerged this list and I was subject to some death threats or the letters that said, &quot;You are next.&quot; I'll never be able to say that the threats were really linked to the but I can't say that they were not. (somber piano music) - There were all sorts of And it wasn't until Susan Atkins, who was arrested with some other people in an unrelated crime, was in the Sybil Brand Institute and decided to confess to her cellmates. Chaos, it was insanity. And in those days, they in the hallways outside the courtroom. And the court hallway was you could barely move. When Manson finally was led in, he was this little teeny character with scraggly hair and a buckskin jacket and obviously was There were all kinds of The Manson women were camped They were threatening if Manson was convicted. And then the ultimate was and he propelled himself at the judge with a pencil in his hand, screaming, &quot;Someone should The first day of trial, Charlie had carved an X into his head, and he issued a statement that he had X'd himself out of the world. And I believe the next day the women defendants had X's also. I believed that Charlie the first night for two reasons. One was to put the fear because Melcher used to live But the other was to actually to get Bobby Beausoleil out of jail. - I met Bobby Beausoleil in San Francisco, and I had a huge crush on He was gorgeous. His nickname was Cupid, that's how, I mean, he had the most He was just slightly but I would never have imagined he could have committed (suspenseful electronic music) - I had 20 minutes. I interviewed Manson. He did try his staring tricks, of course, and so I'm a pretty good starer, too. And it was only 20 minutes, so we just stared at each The Manson family decided at Spahn Movie Ranch. They wanted to sell Manson's rock album, and they thought they'd make some money. And the girls invited us into the trailer. So being young and thinking nothing could possibly happen to us, we went in the trailer, and we had this little baby named Elf. And he was quite filthy, but we passed, he was being passed around among all the women. And we took our turns holding Elf. And we talked about amazing things like chocolate chip cookie recipes. It was just like girl talk. - [Jean] What's your It's really different from any other baby I've ever seen before (laughing). - [Lynette] Yeah, well In other words, we're all his mother. You know, we all treat And actually, we belong to him, you know, because that's how it is with babies. They're very aware, you know, and they get your So actually, they own you. But like, we follow him. He's our leader, really, babies can show you a lot 'cause they're totally and you can get a lot of peace from 'em if you can sit down-- - and be with 'em for long periods of time. - The girls were insistent that I must buy a copy of the record, and I kept, I mean, I for Radio News West. And five dollars for a especially one that I didn't know that I would have any interest in. So they said, &quot;That's okay, we know you. &quot;You're running around &quot;We see you pass by us when we're sitting &quot;on the sidewalk there. &quot;Every time you go past So I agreed to do that. So I have the record, and (laughing), this is the record. And then even after they and were crawling down the streets, I paid them a quarter. - There was so much weird It was the ultimate trial of the '60s. It was a trial of the whole era. (somber electronic music) You're never gonna think of Los Angeles as the major crime city the way they did with the Manson murder. - Life Magazine published the photograph of Charles Manson on the cover, and he looked wild and crazy. And I think people in the United States seemed to like horror pictures. They go to the movies and they see the &quot;Halloween&quot; movies and everything. Well here, the people who could convince young people - After &quot;The Manson File&quot; came out, and that was really the first book that ever even presented Charles Manson not only in a sympathetic way but merely presented him as a human being. So it created quite a stir, and I said on national TV that Vincent Bugliosi had that what he presented as this whole &quot;Helter Skelter&quot; was not true. - There had never been a cult like this, and there never was again. It had so many facets to it, the preying on young people, the ability of a single leader to use drugs, sex, and rock and roll to get people to follow And it resonated. He is famous forever. - It's a persona that now - I remember when &quot;Helter That was, like, the second wave. That's when I first learned about it. And it was just, you It's so much more complex because the pathology of the people who committed these murders weren't like your lone wolf, you know. It's like these people Charles Manson was kind of and I have to say, of worship philosophy of Charles Manson. I wonder if the Manson so many decades had there not been the connection between The Beatles' &quot;White Album.&quot; Because The Beatles' &quot;White like The Beatles have had longevity through all these years. So anytime a person they always, &quot;Oh yeah, this is that album &quot;that the Charles Manson,&quot; and it kind of feeds off of itself. So I think that-- the flames? have really helped. Young people discover &quot;The - Yeah, yeah. connected to it, - the mystique connected to it. - It's ultimate PR, amen. the soundtrack of The Beatles, I don't know if they would have had, if the Manson thing would - The change came because, I think, people saw a crazy side of drugs that they had not seen before. I mean, I covered a lot of love-ins, and everybody was dancing and clanging things and hugging But they weren't killing each other. - Peace, love, and the And it was a nice illusion, and it went poof, it And it was so definitive, the ax had fallen, the door had closed, you know, literally. And Charlie brought the '60s to an end. - And I think that any about the Summer of Love and about hippies and about counterculture Now it was a much more hard-edged society. - It was scary to think about, and then of course when it &quot;Oh, no, this is gonna be a And of course it was because we were seen, the hippie movement, the free love, all that, drugs, was seen as a negative thing because he was a hippie, He grew his hair, that's all. That's the only kind of hippie he was. - I do think that the have made a big impact on this whole area because he's become some which is scary. - This whole attention thing, I don't need nobody's I can do what I do by myself. I don't need nobody. I ain't lookin' for no followers. I'm lookin' to survive. - I mean, if you think media-wise and public-wise, they really, I mean, if you ask people, they would say, &quot;Yeah, well, there's &quot;Really, that's it, huh?&quot; - But Manson had a streak of pure evil. I guess the story is that that he's dead finally, and yet it's as if the And it hangs over everyone who But I know we all get our turn And I love you Never learn not to love you Never learn not to love you Never learn not to love you