- Finally, after years of the we're finally getting Hannah Montana, and Linux, sponsored by Linode. (upbeat electronic music) Hey everyone, how are you all doing? If you're new here, welcome. My name is Krazy Ken. And yes, Hannah Montana Linux. This is a real thing and we're gonna do an Now, some of you are probably thinking, Ken, didn't you do this OS already? Answer, yes, I did many years ago. I would love to revisit obscure and just kinda weird. Also, I was inspired because he recently did let's just say unusual Linux distros. So let's take a look at the website, HannahMontana.sf.com. Wow, just look at all that pink. I think it's kind of fun how they put like a Linux style icon loading bar at the bottom as the nav bar. That's kind of cool. I'll give you some points for that. And there's a song and while looking through I found some miscellaneous links. Miley Cyrus. Hmm, who's that? Anyway, let's click it. Whoa, whoa. We can't show that on TV. So with that aside, let's go ahead and download this Oh, doesn't work anymore. Good thing the internet All right, now that we have the ISO, let's install this And I'm gonna be using This is the Player version, which basically means and the cool thing is this comes Thanks for that, lads. Let's power it up and go We'll test drive it a bit before we actually run the installation. So we'll do English because I can't read most And we're gonna try Hannah Montana Linux without any change to your computer, and oh my gosh, what's with the pink and the bright green? That is not really easy on the eyes. I don't know who picked that color scheme but that kind of just makes it better. (Ken laughs) That's right. The nice loading bar. I feel like it just wants or maybe that's artistic expression. I don't know. Hey, we got Tux, we got and we have Hannah Montana. You ever noticed that she That's interesting, has anyone ever talked about that before? Tux is just over there like, oh my gosh, what did I get myself into? Why did I get a tattoo of And we're in the live environment. Okay. (computer startup music) Got a little startup sound there. Isn't that nice? So we have our desktop folder. This looks like the Plasma icon. We have a sort of a, it's called a system tray in Windows, I'm not sure what it's called here. They're probably using Looks like we have a The kickoff application launcher, that's what they're So yeah, we're getting a and not full resolution 'cause we need to install some drivers but we can't really do that We need to get everything installed first. Theme: Hannah Montana. Yes, I think that is very Yeah, we have System Settings, Search Applications, Recently with our nice star in Hannah, and I'm getting some white flicker, not sure what's causing that. Gonna have to investigate. So I know I can run the but I would actually prefer Oh gosh, lots of pink. I just prefer to boot into that mode. So let's shut her down. Leave. We'll scroll down to shut- Oh my gosh, dude, that moon. Just a nice stretched picture of the moon. Why not? Turn Off Computer. (computer shutdown music) We get a little bit of How nice. Abort active sessions. Am I crazy? Shouldn't it know how to Ah, what do I know? Let's just hit Okay. (computer beep) Okay, beeped at me. Did I make it mad? Please remove the disc. Press ENTER to continue. Well, we're just gonna go back into the disc and, oh, well, now halt. Unable to iterate IDE, I guess that's what I wanted. Okay, we're gonna play into the installer. Test memory, actually, let's do that. I don't really know what it's doing. Pentium II, wait a minute. Is the virtual machine software But this mem map has an std. Be careful there. Okay, I'm gonna reboot. I think it's good. I think the numbers were So we're gonna do install All right, there's our amazing Did you guys actually watch Like I never really got into it. I tried watching it back on Disney when I was a kid, but like, I don't know, I just couldn't really get into it. &quot;Zack &amp; Cody&quot; was my jam. Chicago. Can I press C? Yes I can. What, Caracas? What? Okay, so Prepare disc space. Because this is virtualized, we don't really risk or anything. So we can just tell it and it looks like this Linux distro is actually Kubuntu 9.04. So that lines up with the 2009 thing. 9.04 would be an April 2009 release. And now we get to type in our information. Who am I? I am Krazy Ken. Oh no, do we need a password? Oh, come on. I don't really want a password. I'm not protecting government We'll do 123456. Cybersecurity PSA, don't You entered a password that consists of less than eight characters, You should choose a stronger password. Let's just hit Continue. I really don't give a crap. We are copying files. 69. Nice. Less than a minute remaining. Creating user. It should go pretty fast. I can't imagine Hannah Montana Linux is a very demanding operating so should be lightning quick, until you get to this part We don't need all of apt, right? (Ken laughs) I don't even really know what that is. So once we get this installed, I'm gonna attempt to install VMware Tools. VMware Tools are the drivers that allow the OS to operate better. I don't know, I'm guessing and this OS is really old. Hopefully there's some sort of Oh, hey, 87%. Okay, ooh, we're moving now. Ooh, baby. We're almost at a Can I make this window bigger? Oh my gosh, I can. Wow, this is really impractical. I can shade the window? Oh, I can shade the window. Look at that. All right, Restart Now, let's do it. Oh, there's another handy beep there. That beep just lets you Enter to continue. (computer chime) There's our nice zen music. There's no icon that says installs. So we are actually in the OS itself and not the live environment. So now what I'm gonna attempt to do to make this work better is So let's cross our fingers here. VMware Tools, open with Dolphin. Oh, God, what you do to Dolphin, guys? It's such a purple Dolphin. I'm guessing we need to extract the, oh jeez, thanks for the generous file browser here. Yeah, I can just see my (Ken laughs) Oh, can I not resize this one? Oh, there we go. Yeah, this is really a piece of crap. We're gonna extract the, what I'm assuming are to the desktop here and hit Okay. Okay, so now we just have to run this. I think I just do this, and then please rerun this for, oh, okay. Execution aborted. Okay, so we'll go, there's probably an easier way to do this but I'll just do sudo there, put in the directory, and, oh wait, the Ubuntu version detected, oh man, I had a feeling It's one year too old. It needs to be 10.04 or newer to install the VMware tools. Oh boy. (light guitar music) All right, everybody remain calm. It wouldn't be unscripted tech shenanigans if there weren't problems. So I'm gonna try VirtualBox. So let's go ahead and run the Oracle VM System extension blocked? Oh no. Whatever will we do? So I'm gonna authenticate this here and then that will allow me to go here where it says Oracle America. I'm just gonna say Allow. I gotta restart the system. You remember when Apple for all the cancel and allow stuff? Yeah, not so funny now, is it, fruit boys? - You are coming to a sad realization, cancel or allow. - (Disappointed) Allow. - And reboot. I have the system reinstalled and we're gonna open up This is like the VirtualBox And hopefully it works. Oh wait, that's an EXE file, huh? Heh, I'm dumb. EXE files are Windows things. You know, I can probably in the terminal a little more easily. It's bouncing up and At least someone's having a good time. Boy, wonder what that feels like. Console is supposed to be opening here. I actually kinda like this blue glow going on with the theme here, that's cool. But yeah, it's not (laughs), it's not opening. Where is it? It's in the panel. Okay, now it's closed. Try rebooting. All right, the cliche, turn it off and turn doesn't seem to fail, at least not often. So we're gonna type in sudo to And I'm just gonna drag Hopefully that's it. Okay, it looks like it's Okay, I can't tell if it It looks like it's done Okay, I guess we're good. All right, well I'm just for good measure here. Plus we get to listen to (computer chime) Ah, listen to that. Okay, it's booting up, and that time we got all the icons, fantastic, so yeah, we're now not with Retina because that would make and I don't think this how to scale. And I'm not a hundred percent sure if all the additions really because some of the a little laggy, but I don't know if that's The main thing I wanted and the network. Let's just make sure we'll just go to the good old console and we'll just ping thecomputerclan.com. Why not? And yep, there's our So that means network is working with this old operating system. I don't know if any of are gonna be able to browse the web, because of SSL and all that Oh boy, Google, I'm feeling lucky. Okay, let's do that. Let's do that for some fun. Konqueror. Be free. All right, Computer Clan. Yeah, I was gonna say it's gonna fail the authenticity check. It's not gonna be able to go, would you like to accept Sure. Continue, anyway, forever. Continue forever. Continue forever. Continue forever. Oh my gosh. Yeah, it's gonna have security but it tried to load. Well it looks like I can of the website, so maybe There we go. Look at that, it kind of works. I doubt this is gonna load but let's try going to the Etsy store. Yeah, the operation couldn't work. Yeah, well, hey, by the You can buy some goodies not with this older We could probably upgrade but then we're not living Let's test drive the system. Okay, so the theme is very And this wallpaper is absolutely amazing with these most likely and Tux there. Looks like we have Plasma running here which gives us widgets. Here we go, Add Widgets. Okay, good. We can add a dictionary, so now we can just put a whole bunch of Plasma widgets on the desktop here. Let's do a digital clock 'cause we always gotta An RSS reader, even though to subscribe to, but let's just, oh look, the Kdenlive Fundraiser is live. It looks like there's a and yeah, the desktop's We got some cool widgets going there. Tux isn't so lonely anymore. It looks like there's a couple we can try just oxygen. Ooh, that looks kind of nice. The blue gradient there we'll probably have to do to get all the pink out of there, but let's live up the pink and that's part of the Hannah of Oh my gosh, there's Okay, so it looks like there's air, which I think is the default I'm not a hundred percent sure but I've seen this Then we got the other one, we were using Hannah Montana Linux three. This is number one, which But what the Hannah Montana Linux or Hannah Montana logo there. Number two, this one just has on a beautiful nineties Fantastic. And then this one actually like right there. Just staring into your Last but not least, number five, where she is smiling. All right, well, that's a nice one. I'm gonna go back to go back to this one. It's a little bit cleaner Everybody loves Tux, right? Okay, while we're here, we might as well change Let's take a look at the menu. System Settings, Appearance. That is what I want. This looks like where we can change all Let's try Honeycomb. Ah, that looks pretty nice. Wonton Soup. Let's go to that honeycomb. That looked cool. Yeah. Oxygen with honeycomb. That looks nice. You got some golden teal, Oh, I don't know if I 'cause I don't know if but I clicked on this little and it's like, do you to the new distribution (laughs) I don't know any Hannah Montana Linux-ness though, maybe we'll save that for the end, so if we screw up it Maybe that will be good, I don't know. Also, I just gotta say I love They're just, they got their Even like clicking to open a menu. It's got a certainty je So let's take a look at what applications are installed here. So we have our favorites. Let's go to Applications. Desktop Sharing, Feed which is, oh gosh, I don't know. We have Quassel IRC Client. Well, that's interesting. Office Applications. There's really nothing on here. Not even like Libre Office or anything. It's just like an organizer Application and Utilities. We have Advanced Text Editor. Ooh, this isn't just a text editor this is an advanced text editor. There's K PackageKit on here. I see a search bar, which is Search abiword. Do you search, oh you can, you actually can search things. It is actually searching repositories. So, and let's install that. Dependencies, I didn't read the whole list but I'm guessing it knows Computers are smart. The package download, Oh, there we go. The package failed to download. Please check your network connectivity. See, we are on a network but I'm guessing these however they're programmed, and I just can't pull them up at all. Actually, you know, I'm thinking, I wonder if doing that to download applications. I'm gonna run that But before we do that and we gotta play with xeyes right? We gotta play with some So let's go to the Oh yeah, they're just and oh, there's no window manager for them so I can't move it. Oh, there we go. It's the option key. And there we go, we got So now he looks great. It looks like he's Look at that smart guy. He's just following my mouse cursor. See, now when I ran xclock, it actually is inside of a, It actually gives it a window But xeyes did not seem to do that. So we'll just run xeyes while we go ahead and Let's do an upgrade to 14.06 Trusty Tahr. Tahr, Tahr, Trusty Tahr. Is that how you pronounce that? Let's upgrade it and see what Uh oh, a fatal error occurred. The application KDE sudo Oh no. Well hey, I didn't think that but you know what? I'm totally fine with preserving this amazing I mean, just look at this. It does not get better This operating system really I think we can all agree on that. So let's go ahead and shut her down and enjoy that awesome sound again with that stretched moon picture. It's always so artistic. (computer chime) Ahh. Oh, it's so beautiful, Well, now, halt. So we talked about Linux today and we talked about Hannah Montana but do you know what really gives you the best of both worlds? Having 24/7 support and for Linux cloud computing solutions. And that's what Linode is all about. They're all Linux based. I say it all the time, if it runs on Linux, it runs on Linode. So if you have an application or a website that you Linode has that infrastructure Leno offers out of box apps for game servers like TF2, You can run your own virtual build an online application with Joomla's content management system. There's so much you can do with Linode's affordable and to boot, they offer award-winning Visit linode.com/computerclan and click one of the signup buttons and we'll give you a 60 day $100 credit just for watching this episode, and when you do that you're also supporting the Computer Clan. So thank you very much. So I hope you enjoyed Give it a shot and let And feel free to subscribe for more tech episodes coming out. I love making episodes about and of course, scam tech. And hey, if you like this Thanks, and I'll see you next time. Catch the crazy and pass it on. (upbeat electronic music) (computer chime) Wait, Miley Cyrus and Hannah