Lilliana Maria: On Being is brought to you the power of the sciences to explore the deepest Learn about the latest discoveries in the and free will at templeton.org. Krista Tippett: When I interviewed the psychiatrist book The Body Keeps the Score was about to innovator in treating the effects of overwhelming we call trauma, when we encounter it in life up with him in a time unlike any other in vast, overwhelming experience after the other, of the most widely read books in the pandemic helpful -- a distinctively illuminating perspective and inside each of us. I'm Krista Tippett, and this is On Being. [music: "Seven League Boots" by Zoe Keating] Bessel van der Kolk has been a leading researcher a diagnosis. That was in the wake of the Vietnam studied in other parts of the population. conversation with him, laying out intricacies and strategies for transmuting trauma that half, I pick up with Bessel van der Kolk to the Netherlands. His own father spent time camp during World War II. I always start my conversations with this just wondering, was there a religious or spiritual van der Kolk: Yeah, a multiplicity: my parents and some not-so-good ways, and as an adolescent, in France called Taize. Tippett: Oh, you did? Oh, interesting. So van der Kolk: Because I loved the music. Tippett: This field you're in, of trauma, everywhere, right? This language of trauma culture, movie, TV scripts, the news, public accounts of how you stumbled into this field. into traumatic stress? van der Kolk: Well, it starts in a very pedestrian it was generally recommended that people have sort of a good idea if you try to help other that, back then, and the only program that for the VA for the same reason that soldiers package. Tippett: And this was in the 1970s, is that van der Kolk: It was in the 1970s, yeah. And to -- as a step in my career. And then the who had terrible nightmares. I happened to and I'd done some sleep studies on that, I gave him some medicines to make the nightmares and I said, "So how did the medicines work?" because I realized I need to have my nightmares my friends who died in Vietnam." And that statement was the opening of my fascination for things that no longer exist, but they and bodies and brains. And the loyalty to me away. And the veterans really touched me very deeply, were about what they had done, how they went how they relied on their comrades, and they father, who I grew up with in the Netherlands with me. Tippett: And at that time, I believe there service and problems after discharge, right? van der Kolk: Well, it comes and goes, you of how Western culture has looked at trauma. and after the Civil War, and during the First And then, in between, it gets forgotten. And field happened to be a time of ignorance again. Tippett: After the Vietnam War. And my understanding PTSD, the term we use now, came about because van der Kolk: Yeah, absolutely. And so later who had been working with abused kids and get a diagnosis in. And that group was too really the Vietnam veterans that brought this psychiatrists and patients at the VA. That a diagnosis. Tippett: So I think that language you used spoke with, that he was a living testimonial happened, which no longer was happening but you define trauma. And so I'd like to spend do you describe what this is -- trauma -- as treat it? van der Kolk: Well, what I think happens is we all do. And we are a very resilient species. us, take care of us, nurture us when we are very horrendous events. But particularly traumas supposed to take care of you, if you're you know, your mind cannot integrate what So the social context in which it occurs is Tippett: Something that's very interesting of trauma, what it is, is how the nature of precise recollections, but that in general, integrated and transformed into stories that traumatic memories, they're not integrated. as much as they're relived. van der Kolk: That's correct. That's actually extensively in the 1890s already, by various what you see when you see traumatized people. subject, people say, "Tell me about your that you actually have no recollection for time, get to tell a story to explain why they experience is that the brain doesn't allow an interesting paradox -- that it's normal out of five kids. When we have a family reunion, And everybody always listens to everybody in the same family as I did?" Tippett: [laughs] Right, there are five versions van der Kolk: Right, right, there's all barely ever overlap. So people create their about trauma is that these images or sounds time. So people who have been molested as room in which they were molested. Or when they keep seeing the silhouette of the priest like that. And so it's these images, these So it's normal to change. My old teacher, have heard about. It's called the Grant the classes at Harvard, every five years [Editor's the Harvard classes of 1939-1944], and it's to war in 1942, and almost all of them came then they have interviews in 1989, 1990, 1991. every two years, and interviews were conducted here.] And it turns out that the people who tell very different stories, let's say, a glorious experience, and it was a growth they were to people, and how patriotic they Tippett: Right. But it's become a coherent van der Kolk: But it's very coherent, and to it, and the relatives have all heard it in our mind. People who got traumatized continue to have 1945. And so they cannot transform it. So you see the narrative change, and people start much to what happens when people dream. Maybe that the natural way in which we deal with and next day we feel better. It's very striking, move to Florida, bummer day in Boston in the up, and you shovel out your car, and everything's in which we restore ourselves, and that process sleep, dream sleep, is probably an important integrated. Tippett: And also, that gets at the fact that just a story that you could tell -- I mean, it's body memory. Or it's a neural net you can formulate. van der Kolk: Yeah. It's amazing to me what that this is not about something you think your body, your organism having been reset and yourself as being unsafe. And it has nothing to people, You shouldn't feel that way, your fault. And people say, I know that, but It was very striking, in our yoga study -- because people who've been traumatized, because it was for people to, even during the most Shavasana, what a hard time traumatized people safe and feel totally enveloped with goodness. out of your body, basically. Tippett: I want to talk about yoga in a minute. people were talking about this in the late guess his phrase was "hysteria." But something that traditional therapy was ignoring this trying to reduce it to talk therapy, which van der Kolk: Right. There's a few people it, people noticed the somatic dimension of really breeds attention to the body out of Psychiatrists just don't pay much attention in his books, The Feeling of What Happens core experience of ourselves is a somatic is to take care of the body. But it's a Tippett: But it seems to me that what we're these kinds of observations. I mean, what to you? van der Kolk: What we see is that the parts and to observe things clearly really get interfered is in areas of the brain that really have called the periaqueductal gray, which has of the body. The amygdala, of course, which the brain, that's where the trauma lands, or renders it totally insensitive. Tippett: And the Broca's area? van der Kolk: Well, in our study and some great finding early on, is that when people down. And that is something that almost everybody with your partner or your kid, suddenly you things to that person, and afterwards, you Well, the reason why you said it is because of your brain that helps you to say reasonable them, shuts down. So when people really become into words in an articulate way disappears. And for me, that is a very important finding, need to overcome the trauma, we need to also tyranny of language. Tippett: Right -- don't ask to be verbal; van der Kolk: Or to be reasonable. [laughs] Tippett: Right. [laughs] van der Kolk: I think trauma is not about articulate. [music: "Third" by Hiatus] Tippett: I'm Krista Tippett, and this is der Kolk, on trauma, the body, and 2021. [music: "Third" by Hiatus] So it seems like there are all these impulses the time that get so out of whack, with trauma. that we have memories and that we process are constantly rationalizing, that we have people are traumatized, they are actually and then become unable to grasp the irrelevance moment. van der Kolk: So we have these two different separate. So we have our animal brain that and makes us turned on to other human beings we have our rational brain that makes you way. These two are not all that connected are, you shut down your rational part of your When you look at the political discourse, in and talk endlessly about why what they emotional responses are totally at variance talk till we're blue in the face, but if something in a particular way, it's almost of course, makes verbal psychotherapy also the brain is so very hard to access. Tippett: We're pretty fascinating creatures, van der Kolk: Fascinating, disturbing, glorious, Tippett: All those things, all at once. So something very important to me, as well. It's or six years. And how did you get interested? part of this kind of work? van der Kolk: We actually got into yoga in is a way of measuring the integrity of your part of your brain deals with arousal. And heart rate variability, and that tells you are in sync with each other. And it turns out that the calmer people are their heart rate variability is. And then we were doing that on some traumatized heart rate variability. And then I thought, variability? Tippett: And is this something you'd naturally it was in sync or out of sync? van der Kolk: No, but you can measure it, there are apps for your iPhone on which you in a more sophisticated way. And so we found in traumatized people. And then we heard that that yoga changed heart rate variability. by our clinic and said, "Hey, do you think said, "We sure can. We'd love to see if this whole yoga thing also fit very well with people cut off their relationship to their And I have to give a little bit of background Darwin wrote a book about emotions in which in things like heartbreak and gut-wrenching And then it became obvious that if people gut-wrench, they do everything to shut down it is taking drugs and alcohol, and the other emotional awareness of your body. And so a we see -- I'd say the majority of the people -- have very cut off relationships to their in their bodies. They may not register what clear is that we needed to help people, for their bodies, to start having a relationship to call it. And so a combination of events really led turned out to be a very wonderful method for areas of consciousness, areas of the brain, to regain ownership over yourself. I don't it or think, if you only do yoga, that you my mind, is an important component of an overall you could do maybe martial arts or qigong a very mindful and purposeful way, with a resets some critical brain areas that get Tippett: Do you also have a yoga practice? van der Kolk: I also have a yoga practice. does enough, but I try to start every day Tippett: Now, did I read somewhere that you was not in sync and was not robust enough? van der Kolk: [laughs] I like to keep quiet Tippett: [laughs] And do you know if yoga van der Kolk: Yeah, I have a nice, even heart Tippett: I wonder if you have ever heard of had on my program. He's actually -- van der Kolk: No. Tippett: He's a very renowned yoga teacher. he had no memory of the accident in which He talks about body memory. It's the same not just on your mind. And the other thing with veterans, and also working with young also, that although that seems to be so much in a traumatic relationship with their own van der Kolk: Absolutely. Tippett: And some of the things he's doing, with him -- like just putting these very so you feel sunk into your body, in a way. been thinking about this as I've been reading van der Kolk: Huh. It sounds very sympathetic of feeling weight and feeling your substance Tippett: Yes, feeling your substance, which muscles, isn't it? I mean, it's ... van der Kolk: Yeah. Really feeling your body critical. And personally, for example, when have you explored? -- I always explore every -- what's been most helpful for me has Tippett: Has been what? van der Kolk: Rolfing. Rolfing is called after people sort of tear your muscles from your your body comes to be contracted in a way body sort of takes on a certain posture. And up all these connections and make the body I had asthma as a kid. I was very sickly as the Netherlands -- I mean, in the final year I was born, about 100,000 kids died from starvation, carried it in my body for a long time. And So I now, my body became flexible and multipotential And for my patients, I always recommend that feel their body, experience their body, open to craniosacral work or Feldenkrais. And I about becoming a healthy person. Tippett: But they're not that easy to find. Feldenkrais and craniosacral. van der Kolk: Yep, they are. Tippett: Isn't it strange how, in Western even, I see this a lot in religion, in Western experiences. We separated ourselves. We divided everywhere now, right? And people are discovering kinds of other ways to reunite ourselves. van der Kolk: But it's true. Western culture so. The way I like to say is that we basically feel bad, just take a swig or take a pill. the harmony inside of yourself is just not our culture, in our churches, in our religious around the world, they always start with dancing, Tippett: Movement, yeah, crying, laughing. van der Kolk: ... physical experiences. And the more stiff they become, somehow. [music: "Scene of the Sunrise" by Miaou] Tippett: After a short break, I catch up with [music: "Scene of the Sunrise" by Miaou] I'm Krista Tippett, and this is On Being. on the brain, the body, and the human reaction has met its moment. We've been hearing foundational when his now-famous book, The Body Keeps the this second half, I caught up with him again lens of his training and perspective. So it's wonderful to be able to have a new has changed so radically from what, you know, when we spoke years ago, that this is what van der Kolk: Yeah, we're still sort of and the world is a completely different place in a way. The world is much more unsafe and side, who's not on our side, who's telling a very radical disintegration of something. Tippett: Well, so some of the things that -- you know, the animal brain and the rational years ago is, the more upset you are, you van der Kolk: That's right. Tippett: And we've pretty much, to a person, [laughs] I mean, some of us, some of us have but, you know, I've thought about this protracted with. And our animal brains do not -- it I've almost felt like that is, again, maybe know. van der Kolk: It is something. I'm not ready is a radical transformation. It's interesting -- since I wrote my book in touch, although we touched on it last time taken care of and feeling believed, and that as long as you have -- the people who are believe you, and people are there for you, cook tonight. I'll take care of you." And that synchronicity between us and other trauma, and makes us very vulnerable to become It's very much -- I put it more in my notion is that we are meant to live in troops and and just do stuff together. And it's also assaulted right now. And that's different from trauma. It's other, but it's not so specific. You know, such a thing as a nice thing about trauma, it behind. If a particular thing happens, Yes, it happened, but it happened a long time And right now we are living in a world that keeps coming up and keeps coming up. And our cannot get it together to say, let's take Tippett: I was thinking about this notion and how -- the primacy of that. I remember as a "living testimonial to his memories" was no longer happening but utterly defined but then also how what you also know is that is that memories become integrated and transformed But I wonder, is it possible to help tend that will help make sense? Are there techniques communally and individually? van der Kolk: The way that people overcome have an alternative experience, so they can that's different from when I saw my best you viscerally know the difference; say, That 18 years old or four years old, whatever. But it's only if you have an experience body feels relaxed now. And I think this ongoing, -- Tippett: Yeah, we're not getting there. van der Kolk: No, so I think that people with time right now. There's a tremendous increase people not feeling safe with each other anymore that makes your body feel safe, like going you know, standing on line to get an ice cream with other people. Tippett: That creaturely experience that you're van der Kolk: And most people choose to live move to shacks and turn out to be all by themselves. Tippett: I think something you just said about in. [laughs] OK, what did you -- you said who have prior trauma. When an experience again, right? So then you have these multiple for people to know. van der Kolk: Yeah, and these things -- it's embodied trauma that you still live in your into being really angry or being upset or actually survives right now, with the pandemic in the same place all the time, putting up an enormous amount of psychological power, when you're just locked up with somebody. Tippett: I think it is fascinating that, for of this for our time, have as much to do with that we're in as with the virus, the illness, rupture. But for you, it's -- somehow, of what you might call trauma, for certain structures of our life together. van der Kolk: Right, and that very resonates people who I see, and I've seen over the context, by people who were supposed to love actually, is not the event itself, but the nobody comes to your help, and nobody says, you justice. The issue of people needing to will be happening is terribly important for we live in. And if you can't trust the network Tippett: That's so -- van der Kolk: And of course, the upside of conditions, people start feeling very close also in medical settings, again, is that people patients are very tight with each other and that's always part of what happens, that all survive. And I think many of us have also experienced somehow I feel more warmth towards my friends when I see a familiar face of people I've before. Tippett: Yeah, I've had that experience, deepened, and not necessarily the ones I would've van der Kolk: Right. We all say negative things family was very deeply affected by the pandemic about them all the time. They didn't have couldn't stay in touch with people. And been for people back there -- and I know, as a consequence -- and how great it is that week, and I speak to my friends in San Francisco capacity to see each other's faces and to you. So let's not say all negative things difference for the better, also. [music: "Frontiers" by Floratone] Tippett: I'm Krista Tippett, and this is der Kolk, on trauma, the body, and 2021. [music: "Frontiers" by Floratone] You know, one thing I said in the script for at the top of the show. I said, "A conversation thing," [laughs] because I feel like you of trauma, you're also investigating resilience, redemptive, and the complexity of memory and care of our bodies. I wonder, are there nuances and our bodies and our minds that, both being in this pandemic world, but also observing are there ways in which your understanding and illuminated by this experience? van der Kolk: Yeah, you know, a very big part been in psychedelic therapy. So that's sort And those experiences have been in person, and they're very careful with each other. that it's not in our cognition; that we of ourselves, if we feel safe with the people Let me tell you about an experience I had I have to take psychedelics, myself, and it's Tippett: Because you're working therapeutically, van der Kolk: Yeah, and because I have a license, with you, I mentioned how I was this very to it again -- and how I had no memory of actually, I experienced in a very deep way starving and his mom was not there for him. for, oh my God, what that little boy went extremely attuned. And it sort of took care that I think it's produced quite a significant that I don't feel deprived. I don't feel So as all this is going on, I'm also part phenomena, human phenomena, that really, we know, you always ask about spirituality. Now, dimensions of ourselves, then it is these ourselves to the mystery of the universe, and utterly precious at the same time. So it's very curious, in the middle of all in, we're also discovering some new avenues to make a difference. I'm also very worried harm again for people. But the potential certainly Tippett: I'm worried -- I mean, I'm worried be more of an elite thing, you know. I'm that are ruining lives and killing people, also, that -- and I think I was going to it's a dramatic, it's just a dramatic, dramatic age to be in, on every front. And There are these breakthroughs of us understanding human in a way that is not on display, globally, making these breakthroughs at the very same van der Kolk: Yeah, and, you know, people like, you know, after the First World War and we had flappers and drinking and bars After the Second World War, the world completely social security and medical care for everybody. have different long-term outcomes, and we of amazing breakthroughs. Like a friend of years, because of immunotherapy. That's stuff like that keeps happening. At the same killing it. And it's just, we know so much, Tippett: Right. [laughs] Yeah. I mean, I do you said you haven't really understood why it's having. I do think that there's a know, compassion doesn't yell, and it doesn't social media. But I think when you help people bodies and how wild that is, right -- [laughs] van der Kolk: Yeah, but that's, again, the things all the time, you know? Tippett: Right. And I think if they, if you you, and you realize that's going on inside van der Kolk: That's right. Tippett: ... that there's something in that van der Kolk: Yeah. I think you touch on a of our MDMA study. You know, it's a great sometimes, that you didn't expect. And the And the thing about being hurt is that when getting hurt: I wasn't strong enough. I I didn't whatever. There's this deep sense happened to you. And we see that dissolve, in our current study. you don't project it onto other people any issue. You know, we see it in politics all I put on you. What I am fascinated by is the question you It's terribly important, and we know, I security prisons. I know people who do vipassana theater in prison systems and other systems. actually. But it doesn't make the headlines. do we highlight the many amazing things that how our culture, this strange American culture, ideas that keep coming up. And ... Tippett: Yeah. Well, you're doing your part van der Kolk: And you sure are, too. [laughs] Tippett: [laughs] Well, thank you. It means out there, and I'm really glad to have a van der Kolk: Well, I hope that a year from all these weird pieces together, because it's right now, something that we have never faced we'll be clearer, a year from now. Tippett: OK, well, let's hold on to that talk about all the resilience and restoration van der Kolk: OK. [music: "Enjoy the Calm" by Drew Barefoot] Tippett: Bessel van der Kolk is the founder Foundation, in Brookline, Massachusetts. He's Medical School. His books include Traumatic on the Mind, Body, and Society and The Body the Healing of Trauma. [music: "Trifle (Consoles Because a Trifle The On Being Project is: Chris Heagle, Lauren Lilian Vo, Lucas Johnson, Suzette Burley, Honnold, Jhaleh Akhavan, Padraig O Tuama, April Adamson, Ashley Her, Matt Martinez, The On Being Project is located on Dakota composed by Zoe Keating. And the last voice is Cameron Kinghorn. On Being is an independent, nonprofit production to public radio stations by WNYC Studios. Our funding partners include: The Fetzer Institute, helping to build the them at fetzer.org; Kalliopeia Foundation, dedicated to reconnecting organizations and initiatives that uphold Learn more at kalliopeia.org; The Osprey Foundation, a catalyst for empowered, The Lilly Endowment, an Indianapolis-based, founders' interests in religion, community And the Ford Foundation, working to strengthen promote international cooperation, and advance