I just which includes enough food And then I decided to trap And every day you live here, I will That's wild, dude. Let's go. - Well I'll give it to you in 24 hours. This challenge could literally which in theory means And it starts right now. All right, Jimmy's gone. Why would I ever leave? Time to go grocery Now, if Alex crosses this red line, that we painted around the entire The challenge is over, and he walks And to make sure It's worth noting here covering every square For my first meal on night one, I think this is This little If I have meals like this every night, Day one, complete. See you in the morning. It is officially been 24 hours, - Alex. Can you feel this and confirm it's $10,000? It is. I believe you. Now, we introduced the twist Basically, you need to give me $10,000 And so you have to strategize to stay here as long as possible. Okay. Conveniently, that are pretty That's probably a good idea. I can't really eat a TV, You're $0.22 over. All right, let me check out. - Do you have an MVP card? - Would you like one? - Do you want to sign up for it? Here's your cash. Kris, take it away. I will see you tomorrow You should start strategizing This changes everything. I got to start strategizing for the future. I have to figure out all of Pet food, pet items. Jimmy cannot pay me I got $10,000 I think I'm just going to get some rest, because I'm going to have to prep I got a lot of work ahead of me. - Alex. Is that what you're selling to me Today it's dog food. Oh, my gosh. Wait, can we do like a... I let him clap. There we go. It's all over here at the register. I love Beast magic. We're at $9,991.80, And for the final item, And something you should know. Every single item Alex sells to me, we're literally going to donate So don't worry, none of The next few days On day five, All this produce here, On day six, he sold me a bunch of diapers. And on days seven, eight and nine, he cleared out an additional He even discovered and since he hasn't showered in 10 days, he built his very own makeshift shower... and laundry system. - Hey, how's it going? All right, How far do you think Oh, I mean, Oh, boy. Depending on how long Alex lasts, this may just become but I'm prepared for that. Holy crap, dude. I don't care if you go a year, Who put all this in here, The bank. You will get this once All right, Who goes to a grocery store Why are these here? Now, Alex, be honest with me. Did you empty out fill them with rocks and keep the TV? Dogs. All right. I trust him. Even though Approaching day 11, Alex began to get pretty efficient $10,001.89. And since I had to leave to go film a video This is not comfortable. But let's pray we get like We had someone else We call him &quot;The Money Man&quot;. It's &quot;The Money Man&quot;. Thank you, sir. $100,000. I can definitely reach a million. And what he did to keep himself I am building a cheeseball wall. It's done. The great wall of cheese balls. Oh, yeah baby. Three, two, one... It was worth it. It was so worth it. On day 13, Alex decided to upgrade It's a piece of crap. What I'm going to do, is use four of these shelves Okay, here we go. I am going to use plastic liner, The walls are waterproof now. All right, This man is literally constructing out of just raw store parts. And there it is. Time to test it. Okay. It's been a few days in here. I'm going to build a wall. Now, I never thought I'd see this, but Alex literally used in the entire store to build walls for his makeshift shelter. He even created a bed and it looked kind of comfortable. This is pretty cozy. I could fall asleep right here. I got to get to scan in, kind of had my eyes Gift cards. It is actually surprising Because Alex was able to hit his And after I got back - Hey, Jimmy. Alex wanted to see if we could help him You know, if you could get it in You're sure you're going Yeah. Three, two... Alright. Not the bakery. I think maybe one more. Yeah. Hey, it's in. Yes! Yeah, yeah, yeah. Enjoy your forklift. We'll see you tomorrow. Even though it's only been a day it seemed like Alex At least that's the only explanation I saw this We're going to be hanging out a lot, He's just going to watch, Just scanning away for another 10k. $10,000.33 Over the next few days, Alex's efficiency was through thanks to his new forklift. So he even had enough time and it was quite the improvement. It's is so much better. And even though Alex's original goal I think we're going I hope not. He started documenting and came to realize maybe he didn't A million dollars is nice in theory. I'm still missing out Both their birthdays are coming up I've never missed a birthday yet. So after thinking about I realized that I need to But right now, I only have $200,000. So in total, I got 50 days, I got to be in here On day 22, all the goldfish in the grocery Oh, my God. Okay, so this is $10,000 I could feed an army of toddlers. All right. Thank you, sir. You're living a regular life You're getting paid Yeah. And you can just do this Yeah. And you can just do this However long you want. However long you want. As you can see, the days But eventually, the day came that he originally used for his shelter. But since he couldn't he realized I'm going to reinforce This is the way. As you can see, Alex is feeling But what he doesn't know is I stopped So at any point now, and his freezers won't work, The challenge is going to get way harder. But to give them some motivation We thought Alex deserved a reward. - Are you excited to see your dad? - You ready to do this? I think he might literally cry. Alex, we have a surprise for you. Hello. - Oh, my babies! Hi buddy! Yesterday, you were telling me about I felt kind of bad. So to celebrate 30 days, we're gonna What are you doing? You crazy boy. Daddy, I need to go pee. What's happening I made a race car track. - Is that the car? Wait, can he ride that? What do you think, dude? There they are. I can't believe that you guys are here. I know. - Dada. Today, I got to see Sarah and the boys. It was freaking amazing. And Sarah was as beautiful as ever. - I love you. - Bye. Heart break. When I saw my kids, you know at that age, they grow weekly. I just look forward to going back What's up? I better get up We're gonna... What the heck? Why are the lights off? What are these shenanigans? There's a flashlight. It's just some kind of joke? Houston, we have a problem. Did you do this, sir? Knock, knock. This is so much creepier. My power's out, Jimmy. Yes, so when I bought this grocery store, like, the utilities in my name, The cameras and cash registers because we need those. Okay, so I had originally $60,000 Oh, my gosh. But I assumed You're going to sell the frozen Yeah. Things have changed. We need to get to scan it. Let's get rid Assembly line. All right, I'll hold the cart. Assembly line. I'm the door holder. And while they're clearing out I want to tell you guys Shopify And in exchange, one of the millions of businesses If only we had a bag that we could And together we picked Kanga Coolers. Chandler, what if I told you, And it can keep what's inside cold That's a long time. You got multi wieners. - Cheesy. Kanga Coolers are so you can take them wherever. Hey, meet us at the front. Chandler, have you ever been - Yeah. You can have the Kanga Cooler. You can fit a Anyways, click the link in the description, You can buy a Kanga Cooler. I'm going to go help them All right, here's our meat receipt. Here's your 10 grand. Also, here's a Kanga Cooler. Oh, nice. Oh by the way Alex, At this point, I once again had to where I built a hundred wells. Well number one is a success. Alex spend the rest of his day rushing to get all the frozen Guess I'll just be scanning stuff I really hope Jimmy turns the power on. It's going to suck. I'm not going to lie. Being left without power affected I guess the food wasn't I wonder if you can tip over a forklift? Careful on aisle seven. This store is turning into a wasteland. So I'm going to the back. I'm going to open up this dock door breathe in some fresh air It's so nice. This right here It is day 36. I got $360,000. Why stop now? Got to keep loading these carts up. Just carts and pools of money. And waiting, waiting for the days to go by. The most exciting part of my day I'm just a sad, Nothing's ever been sadder in my life, except living in a grocery store. Coffee, food, and a lot of money. I'm like way ahead on checkouts still. I don't want to do anything, All that stands between me, is this line right here. The lights being off, being this close to the red line, It's super tempting every day now I know there's that I haven't even dug into. Some glasses. Ice packs. What the... Look what I just found. InstaStart QuickPack lantern. Nice. I got five of them. I just lit them all up. They're on full blast right now. It definitely lights up I feel like I can actually Alex, are you here? - Another 10k? Let's go, dude. It's crazy I have all this money. But there's nothing I can do Except just look at it. Well, you can't look at it. - So I'm going to bring some lights in. For filming purposes. Alright. What are you going to do for Something I definitely want to do through all these shells You ask for this! What is going on? All right. Time for me to not be here anymore. Here's your broom. Thanks, guys. Enjoy cleaning. After spending an entire day Alex took advantage of the newly he found in the back. Off we go. I'm going to drag the hose out here, and sometime tomorrow It's been over a week, and Chandler won't tell me what happened This place looks Oh God, open the doors. Where did everything go? We did a little remodeling This looks like someone gave Kris - Can you show me the pool? Flip. Do you wear socks? Yeah. That's crazy. It's freezing. Cannonball. What you typically do I just kind of float around. This was fun and all, Thanks for the groceries. All right, I'm just going and just put it up And who knows? It's no secret at this point, and while he was making something unexpected happened. Oh, crap. No! No! Oh God! Dude! No! Oh my God. I was trying to turn one way, and Oh, my God. My freaking money is soaked. There's a bunch of products ruined. It's, like, so deep right here. It's in my space. It's all over the grocery store. Dude, I'm done, man. I just want to leave. We're going in. - Alex! Why is it so wet in here? Yeah. Oh, Alex. Your golden chariot awaits you. Look at you in bed. - You good dog? You look like a defeated man. Yeah, I busted the pool. How does one bust a pool? So I was driving by to drop off and it just turned the complete No! So all this got wet? How many more weeks Weeks? I'm just taking it Depends how much longer I can go. So if you just see like a spider in your bed Oh, a hundred percent. Yeah. I don't think he has many days left. This is ending soon. You guys want to come hang out - Heck no. This is what the store looked like And this is what it looks like now. So day 44. It's almost dark outside. Jimmy hasn't come by today. I have stuff I need to sell. I'm just going to move Hopefully somebody brings me Maybe they just forgot or something. It's really lonely in here. I'm just going to go sit in my chair Yo, what? Are you serious? Are you there, Jimmy? It's the first interaction the freaking robot. Thanks for the money. Not even Jimmy That's how depressing this place is now. Can't say I blame him, This sucks, man. God, I'm freaking miss my family It's day 45. And Chandler, That is complete boredom. I would feel bad for him, and he can leave whenever he wants, - Alex. We were watching you on the cameras. You looked very sad. Yeah, I'm pretty bored. Well, here's $10,000. - So are you less bored? How many weeks left you got? Well, I don't even know Really? Here, let's go look This is all the money 450 grand. Are you saying Give me one second. I've got a surprise What? Are you serious? Hey babe. What the heck? Don't cry. I can't help it. Okay. Why aren't you wearing your shoes? And your shirt? To be clear, I don't know why he's not wearing These are all the things that - Isn't this crazy? I feel like I could do another Do you think it's worth it? What's the verdict? - We've weighed the options. Keep tons of money already made. Honestly, it's not worth staying Okay, well, All right, Alex, the second I can move all the money back. It's your decision. All right, bring it back in. Okay, bring it back in. Just kidding. Let's go! Alex spent 45 days in the store Can't believe this happened. Congratulations, Alex. Shout out to Albertsons for helping us You guys are amazing. Also, if you're wondering because we blew up it was actually on the moon Watch the laser