Where can we travel to, dear? The weather is getting worse. It's rainy season in Germany. I wouldn't want to travel in Germany. I want to go to a place where it's warm and sunny. A place with a good pleasant weather. Before winter comes, I want to go somewhere sunny. If possible, I want to go to an island in the Mediterranean. What do you think, dear? It'd be expensive to travel far away places. Yes, distant destinations would be expensive. You can't take long stretch off days. You only have a week to spare. Where to? If we go on a road trip, we wouldn't get to a warm and sunny place in time. I really want to go to a warm and sunny place. As long as it's warm and sunny? - I don't mind anywhere as long as the place is warm and sunny. And that place should be on an island. How about if we fly there? Would that be expensive? It'd be really expensive during the holiday season. I think we can opt for Eurowings for the flight. Have you heard of its Blind Booking feature? Blind Booking? [intro music] What is Blind Booking? Eurowings is offering its Blind Booking feature. If you want to fly anywhere from Hamburg, - Uhum. Eurowings has four travel packages on offer. One of the destinations will be to the Mediterranean. Please show it to me. That's interesting. So, we can choose the flight destination? - Not really. You just select one of the four packages. Example. Concrete Jungle or Happiness Coming to Shore. Owh, this is the one. - Uhum. A return flight costs only 94 euros per person. That's cheap. But the destinations are predetermined and selective. Interesting. You can choose the travel theme. Destinations are categorized based on themes, like Selfie Hotspot. Some of the destinations under Selfie Hotspot category. Venice, Ibiza, Rome...Uhha...Or... No Rain In Spain category. Far Far Away category? Spain looks good. - Yes. But I want to go to an island at the Mediterranean Sea. You already decided on your traveling dates, right? We need to input the dates. - Yes. We can deselect destinations we don't want tot go. You can deselect them but the prices would go higher. I don't actually mind the destination for as long as the weather is good. Weather in the Mediterranean would normally be good, right? Hopefully so. Let's take a look at regions of destinations. Owh, it has... - It has Ibiza. Mallorca. - There are destinations in Greece. - Malta. All sorts of destinations. Okay, lets try this. We wouldn't know which one we'll get. We'll just try our luck with this. But don't tell the kids. Yes, we'll keep it a secret. We'll just book without the kids not knowing. It'll also be a surprise for us. We don't even know which destination we'll get. Let's try and see. We'll just make a booking. You don't tell the kids. I have an idea. Every week, we'll give the kids a hint on where the destination would be. But don't tell them where. Keep them guessing every week. The booking is six weeks before the trip. We need to make booking six weeks before the trip. Just nice. We can make the booking now. Let's make the booking now. - Okay. We'll pick an island destination. We have to specify the minimum time to spend. Not sure we'll get a good destination. We'll just take a chance. I hope the price would be reasonable. But looking at from 96 euros here, it's like... When we were traveling to Turkey previously... Zainab wanted us to tag along but the fare was like 1,600 euros for all of us. Below 1,000 euros would be good. Okay, let's see how it goes. But we don't know which destination well get. There'll be six of us. Are you willing to take the chance? But the price is really cheap. The price is slashed by more than half here. We'll now make the booking, okay? But we don't know which destination we'll get. The actual price is 1,700 euros. That's a price cut of more than half. Okay. - So, I'll make the booking now. Okay. [laugh] We have made the booking. We'll be going to Mallorca, dear. [laugh] That's alright. We get... We got excited by the blind booking. Actually, I was hoping for Malta. Malta? - You wanted Greece, right? Greece would be a better destination. It could turn out to be a fun place. I heard people say Mallorca is an exciting place. We're psychologically influenced by what people say. Mallorca is a common destination for Germans. Let's see how it goes. That's the reason why we're doing this. We eventually ended up getting Mallorca. The booking is already confirmed anyway. But the timing of the trip is perfect. The trip is from Sunday to Sunday. We'll take off in the evening and back in the evening. So, it'll be just nice. So, now... - We need to find transport and accommodation. Oh, yea. We need a car and a hotel. I think we need to book them right now. Okay, we'll book them now. Do you want rent under Sixt or Euro... DISCOVERCARS.COM has so many to choose from. It has Europcars, Sixt. - Europcars. It features all sorts of car rental companies. There'll be more choices in Mallorca. Really? - Because it's a major tourist destination. But I heard DISCOVERCARS.COM is a good place. DISCOVERCARS.COM? It has all... - I've never come across it before. From car rental companies' websites, like Europcars and Sixt. they'll pick the most competitively priced which has attached insurance package. A slight scratch or graze would be a problem. We'll take the one with the insurance package. The website collates car rental companies all in one place. They'll pick the best ones for you. It's similar to Check24 for insurance. - Yes. It'll will choose the ones that suits your needs. That's interesting. Okay. Let's take a look. - Okay, let's see. Hope the unit is available where we're heading. We need a seven seater car. They do have seven seater vehicles. Woo. They even have Kodiaq by Skoda. That's a good car. The price is acceptable. - Yes. For one week. - The price is for one week. I was told we need to rent a car in Mallorca. So that, we can fully explore the place. We don't have to book accommodation at Palma. We can book somewhere farther off. Yes. We can rent a villa. We can also rent the residential homes. Okay. Let's book that one. We'll rent and pick up the car at the airport. Okay. Nice. Perfect. Car rental done. Car rental done. Flight tickets done. The kids don't know where we'll be going. The all have gone to sleep. That's why we're making the bookings right now. We'll make the kids anxiously wondering. We'll give them a hard time guessing. Let's see what they'll guess. I think the kids will be a little disappointed with Mallorca. Maybe they're expecting to travel somewhere else. Let's see how it goes. All of us haven't gone there before. Please don't have a bad impression on Mallorca. It might be fun and enjoyable stay in Mallorca. So, let's see how it goes. So, kids! [laugh] Be quite. Be patient. Patience everyone. What we'll be doing during autumn break? Keep calm. Mom and dad have subscribed to this one website. What's the name of the website? It's Blind Booking. We don't know which destination we'll get. Mom and dad have made bookings via Blind Booking. Every week, we'll give you guys a hint of the place. Ouh. - We'll give a weekly hint. You guys can take a guess. - It's an island. So, it's... Owh no. You just gave away an easy one. Your dad just gave the first hint. It'll be an island destination. What's your guess, Layla? Sophia? - Malta. Noah? - [speaking German] Just take a wild guess. You can change it every week. - Madeira. Luisa? - Is Corsica an island? Luisa? - It's Corsica. I'm hoping for Portugal or Greece. [speaking German] - Same for me. I think they'll feel disappointed. [laugh] We'll try again next week. [film roll] Guess where we'll be going for our next trip. They still don't have a clue. It's an island that has a mountain range. Enough. Not too much. An island with a mountain range. It's surrounded by the sea. [laugh] Just kidding. Obviously, it's an island afterall. - Yea. Okay. So, keep on guessing. Luisa is not with us. We'll ask Luisa later on. - What is &quot;laut&quot;? &quot;Laut&quot; is meer in German. Where do you think will it be, Noah? Layla? No idea? No idea? [speaking German] Sophia? I think it's Croatia or Greece. Okay. We'll see. [film roll] The next hint. Are you ready to give them the next hint? Uhm. - They're getting impatient. Okay, what's the hint? The next hint is...you guys need to refer to history. The place was once conquered by Carthago. You guys need to search for Carthago. Okay? It was once conquered by Carthago. You guys need to find out who are they. Just look it up online. We'll take another guess on the next hint. [film roll] This is the next hint. This will be the second last hint. You said you wanted to give them this hint. Today is Michael's birthday. That's why I'm giving the hint in... Noah, please sit over here. That's why I'm giving the hint in German. The next hint is...we haven't been there before. We haven't been there before. We haven't been there before. Is the place a country or an island? [speaking German] That's all for the hint. We haven't been there before. [speaking German] The final hint will be on Sunday. But before that, we need a hint on its weather. We'll update you guys about its weather. That'd be another hint. We need to check again on the weather of the place. But the place is in Europe. [film roll] This is the next hint. [speaking German] Our flight will be tomorrow. They still don't know where we'll be going. Sophia thinks the place is near...What was it again? Olbia. - Olbia, near Sardinia. - Uhum. Okay. Sophia thinks it's Sardinia. Layla? I'm 100 percent sure. What's your guess, Luisa? I think the place is near Sardinia. I also think it'd be somewhere near Sardinia or Sicily. Sicily in Italy. This is Heather. Hi Heather. She's Layla's friend. So, what will be the next hint? I think we can tell them our flight time. That's the next hint. Don't tell them about the flight yet. Grandma and grandpa will have breakfast with us. Okay. - [speaking German] Grandpa and grandma will be coming here. We still can have breakfast together. The flight wouldn't be too early. Three o'clock. - We'll depart at 3pm? - Yes. [speaking German] - No. - No? What time we'll depart? - 10.30. - 10.30am. So, that means we'll have breakfast at 7am. We'll have breakfast around 7am. We'll depart from here at 10.30am... [speaking German] - ...to...jeng, jeng, jeng. To somewhere. Okay? Bye bye. See you tomorrow. Good morning. Today is the day. We'll make a move in a bit. The kids are oblivious where we'll be heading. They kind of guessed where we'll be going. We'll take the car to go somewhere. The kids don't even know where to. Michael is tidying things up. Before leaving the house, we'll tidy things up. We did change the orientation of our home. Those who follow our Vlog will know the change. Slowly, we're tidying up our home. We'll also tidy up the kitchen. We'd like to leave the home clean and tidy. It has started to drizzle. It's autumn over here. We're running away from autumn. Will we be heading to a warm and sunny place? Not sure because Mallorca is still in Europe. Europe has gone into autumn. Mallorca is a bit warmer than Hamburg. But you guys can see how leaves have turned brown. A beautiful sight, isn't it? Autumn has its charms. But it's [expression]. Weather in autumn will make you go [expression]. We wouldn't know for sure. The weather of the place we're going to... could be the similar with the weather here. We don't know for sure. The kids don't know. So, are you ready? Is everything set? How many luggages we have... We cant bring too many luggages. We're limited to a maximum of two luggages. We'll be away for just one week. This flight has limits on luggage. How many kilograms for each luggage? Is it 20? - 23. - Owh, 23 kilograms. Everybody is ready. I haven't locked the house door yet. Ready to go? Where do you think we'll be going? I want to know the first letter of the place we're going to. The first letter? Let's see. Get inside. It's raining. So, we're on the way now. Where we'll be going? Malaysia. - We're going back to Malaysia. We're going back to Malaysia. Unfortunately, our trip will just be in Europe. Unfortunately, it wouldn't be Malaysia. But in Europe... We can't travel too far away from home. Because we only have one week. One last hint. - Last hint. We'll be flying from Hamburg. - Wow. Why it's such an easy hint? I want them to think harder. They're still discussing. They still don't know where we're going. Hey hey hey. - [speaking German] I'm going to ask you guys one last time. Where do you think it'll be, Luisa? [speaking German] - Noah? I don't know. - Take a guess. Look here. Take a guess. What's your guess, Sophia? Uhm. Italy. Somewhere in Italy. Nope. What's your guess, Layla? I hope it'll be Greece. Greece. Owh my God. Will me and your dad be disappointing you guys? [laugh] It's not too far from Germany. [speaking German] They're still verifying. What are the hints mom and dad have given? First, it's an island in the Mediterranean Sea. - Yes. The island has... - Hills and mountains. Then, uhm... - Historically, it was conquered by... Carthago. - Carthago. And... - What else? - Uhm. Noah, what other hints mom and dad have given? We've never been there before. - Yea. Yea. So, let's see. Let's see. - Let's see. As usual, we'll be heading to Harburg Parking Lot. It's convenient, cheap and near to our home. No rush as we're taking public transport. Some viewers are amazed we're apt users of public transportation. To them dragging luggage along is a big inconvenience. But it's a norm for Europeans. That's one of the things I like about European culture. Europeans don't like to stay in their comfort zone. Not everything are done and obtained online. Sometimes the adventure makes it fun although at times it can be an inconvenience. So, Let's go. My kids have their own public transport pass. It's valid for the whole of Germany, right? - Yes. They can take public transport for free. Free public transport for 18 years and below in Hamburg. It costs 49 euros a month. It applies to all public transport nationwide. Only Hamburg residents get to enjoy that privilege. That's why we decided to take the public transport. We're now waiting for the Strassenbahn. [background music] My kids are still wondering where we're going off to. Luisa couldn't care less of what's going on. I just want to go on a holiday and that's it. She doesn't realize we're talking about her. I'm talking to you. What did you say? I didn't hear you. Dreaming. [laugh] [speaking German] Where do you think we're going, Luisa? Where do you think we're going? [speaking German] [laugh] [laugh] - [speaking German] Where do you think we're going, Noah? [expression] What did you say just now, Luisa? Carthago was established in 645 BC. It's the first island they conquered in Balearen. What's Balearen? - [speaking German] - [speaking German] [background music] We've reached the airport. [speaking German] Actually, Sophia already know the place. Actually, Sophia already know the place. She overheard a conversation with a friend of mine. So, she's just playing along all this while. Let's see the reactions of the others. The others still don't know where we're going. Sophia is the only one who knows. [background music] That's the Bag Drop section. [background music] You guys go there. You guys cannot look. Michael is scanning the bar code. We need to do everything on our own. Nowadays, passengers do things themselves. No need for the staff to attend to you. Since we've obtained our boarding passes, it's time for my kids to know the destination. We're flying to...? Show them the boarding passes. This boarding pass is mine. What's our destination? It's not written on the boarding pass. You guys don't understand what's printed? [speaking German] - Layla, can you assist? I didn't get one. What's PMI? Please find out for your siblings. - PMI is Mallorca. So, to... - I told you so! - I already knew before you. So, you guys eventually know where we're going? [speaking German] - Mallorca. Where is Mallorca? Spain. - Spain. - So, we need to speak Spanish. Are you guys excited with this trip when you guys got to know... Not too excited. Not too excited. Me and Michael were surprised to get Mallorca. We could not choose the destination. So, when the system picked Mallorca for us... The Germans regard Mallorca as part of Germany. It's because Germans frequent to that place. But our friends as well as your parents and brother told us that Mallorca is a nice place to travel to. You have not been there, right? We haven't been there. Germans frequent to the island. It's a nice and interesting island to explore. So, we'll see how it goes. Don't be influenced by what Germans say about it. Germans say being in Mallorca is like being in Germany. You guys should have spoken in Malay. Why do you guys pronounce it as Mayorka? The place is pronounced as Mayorka. But the spelling is with double L. But it's pronounced as Mayorka. - Yes. Michael is not good at this. Your hints are dead giveaways, just like your dad's. The 17th dynasty. At that point, I was like, owh shit. Sophia already know earlier on because... I knew when Uncle Stephan came to the house. Our friend, Stephan, dropped by at the house Stephan is Ida's husband. He asked Sophia whether we're all going to Mallorca. - Yes. I was like, huh? Aunty covered up by saying no. Michael reminded Sophia to keep it to herself. I asked Sophia to help irritate the others. Help us hide the truth from the others. Dad made a slip up on the train. HE showed the tickets to Luisa. You saw the tickets, Luisa? I Googled the PMI destination code. The results came up with Mallorca. But Sophia said Mallorca is not... I had to cast doubts on the obvious. Why did you pull out the tickets in front of the kids? What were you thinking? But I need to know the destination code? They're sitting just beside you. Now, they all already know the destination. We'll be staying at a villa we've booked. But we'll need to drive there. The vehicle is sponsored by DISCOVERCARS.COM So, Let's see how it goes. It is easy, convenient and affordably priced. Michael is fixated with his &quot;haare&quot;. Haare means hair. Receding hairline. - He's worried about his hair. We'll see how smooth the process is. So far, everything went smoothly. Let's see how it goes. [background music] How are you guys doing? - We've there. Not yet. We've just boarded the flight. Michael got a bloody nose earlier. A slight unpleasant episode. An unpleasant episode at the beginning of the trip. Are you guys all buckled up? Okay. [background music] We're on Eurowings flight. Eurowings is not bad. Eurowings is a subsidiary of Lufthansa. - Owh. If you can't decide where to travel, you can book flight tickets via Eurowings. It'll be like a surprise trip. You can specify what kind of travel you'd like it to be. Stipulate region and type of holiday you'd like. Specify how many people will be traveling with you. You can only book one month before your trip. You cannot book two months or three months before. Book at the earliest one month before your trip. I think it's six weeks. - Owh, six weeks? Only then you can make bookings. It's like a last minute flight ticket. It's really cheap air fare. - really cheap. Just take a look at the cabin. Look at the spacious leg room. Even for a bigger sized German. Smaller airline planes would usually be crampy. But this plane is still... The seat has a nice texture. For a budget airline, Eurowings is above its class. Yes. They have good seats and tip top cabin. When the crew noticed Michael had a bloody nose, they quickly gave him immediate attention. We were surprised by their quick response by the crew. Let's go to Mallorca. Okay, we're about to reach our destination. Yeo yeo. Ready? We'll be arriving soon. It reminds me of Sarawak. Luisa says the island reminds her of Sarawak. It's because of the hills and mountains. The greenery and blue sea. [background music] Now, we'll pick up the car booked via DISCOVERCARS.COM We need to go to the rental company office. Do you know where it is? It's on our left. There are a variety of cars rentals under DICOVERCARS.COM They have Europcars and what not. - Yes. DISCOVERCARS.COM will recommend you the best price. It'll suggest the ones with the best services package. We booked a car under KE. But they're all under DISCOVERCARS.COM They're all under DISCOVERCARS.COM. DISCOVERCARS.COM is a reliable car rental agency. Let's look at the temperature. Temperature is at 23 degrees Celsius. It's warmer in this part of the world. The car we rented is under Europcar. We booked the Europcar vehicle under DISCOVERCARS.COM We're picking up the car right now. We need to go to the upper floor. We're picking up the car right now. But do you have the car keys? They'll provide it at the car. - I see. Uish, we can take off the jacket, guys. [laugh] Noah, why are you still wearing your jacket? Are you still feeling cold? [speaking German] - Ooo. [laugh] We're heading to Europcar parking bay. After making a choice via DISCOVERCARS.COM we were given a vehicle under Europcar. After you make a booking via DISCOVERCARS.COM you must be sure which rental company it belongs to. This is so that you know where to pick it up. We're picking up the car. Is it manual or automatic transmission? The receptionist was trying to upsell. I eventually managed to get automatic transmission. They were trying to upsell but I turned down the offer. They were trying to upsell. Persistent marketing. Just bear that in mind. So, this is the car we booked. Wow, it's a nice car. [expression] Whoa. Not bad. [unintelligible] It's pretty spacious. Do you guys find it spacious? This is our ride. - [speaking German] It's a nice car, isn't it? This is our car for one week. Whenever you rent a car, please take photos of the vehicle. If there are existing damages, you're not liable for it. If there's anything wrong with the car, you'll not end up paying for it. It's easy, convenient and excellent services. The good thing about DISCOVERCARS.COM, you can choose from a wide range of car rental companies, DISCOVERCARS.COM will shortlist cars that are affordable and those that suits your requirements. That's was why we rented this car via DISCOVERCARS.COM Okay. - Everything okay? Photos taken? Done. - Aright. Let's make a move. Welcome to Spain! [laugh] This is not our first time in Spain. It's also not the first time for our kids in Spain. This is our second trip to Spain for all of us. This is the first trip to Mallorca. We've been to Barcelona before. Before we came up with the YouTube channel, we drove from Hamburg to Barcelona. Since Mallorca is farther, we decided to... We didn't specially pick Mallorca. It was system picked for us via Blind Flight. Travel time from the airport to the villa would take about one hour. So, Let's get on with the journey. Michael is driving a different car in a different country. [laugh] Kids, are you guys comfortable? - Yes. The windmill looks peculiar. They have lots of windmills here. - Yes. There are more over there. It'll be dark when we arrive at the villa. - Yea. [unintelligible] This place is hilly. Daylight is shorter during autumn. When we arrive at the villa, it's already dark. It's already dark. We'll be arriving at the villa soon. Where will be our place of stay? Over here, it's known as Finca. Villas are called Finca in Mallorca. It looks the villa is this one. Ouh, it's one minute away from here. Is the villa the one ahead? Why is the villa in total darkness? I think this is the one. This is the one but it's in total darkness. I think it's this one. Is it unit 55? 53. Owh, it's this unit over here. I think it's that one. - Drive a little forward. It's unit number 53. - Yes, it's the one. Okay, Let's have a look. Wow, interesting ornamental plant. What is it? - [unintelligible] What's this smell? - [unintelligible] Owh, no wonder. Take a look at the plant. Is it Aloe Vera? It's a huge plant. Fuyo. There's someone inside the villa. Hola. I've started to get the Hola vibe. - [laugh] [unintelligible] [unintelligible] We have arrived. - Mama, that's cool. What is it? It's Hola impression lighting on the floor. Hola! [laugh] It's a greet impression lighting. Hospitable owner is greeting us on arrival. They speak Spanish. I can only speak a little English. - Little English. [laugh] That's the toilet. Ouh. Not sure which bedroom is for who. You guys choose which room you want. So...Owh, nice. Hu hu. [laugh] Wah. Very nice living room. You can slide the sliding door open to take a peek outside. You can go directly to the kitchen from here. So nice. They even provide a washing machine. Yes, that's splendid. You can exit the unit on this side. Then, you can get to the swimming pool. Nice swimming pool. There's even a playground for kids. Noah, you still can play the playground. [laugh] Let's take a look at the rooms. What other rooms the villa has? [speaking German] - The villa has a swimming pool. The villa has three bedrooms. First, second and third bedroom. It actually has four bedrooms. Is the villa nice? [laugh] It has an air conditioner. Let's go take a look. [speaking German] - Cute swimming pool, right? It even has... Owh, there's a place for barbecue. [speaking German] - [expression] Nice swimming pool. It dropped and you picked it up. We're preparing for dinner. Anyone see a rag? Ouh, there it is. We're still looking for what's required. The unit has complete kitchen utensils and tableware. So, you need not worry. [laugh] We're having dinner outdoors. My two youngest knee dipping in the pool. One night, we'll have a barbecue Can we also make pizzas with it? I don't think you can make pizzas using it. [film roll] Good morning. Hola, Mallorca. We can rent the place? Just insert coins into the machine. Insert coins and you can see the duration. [speaking German] They're now soaking wet. [speaking German] Smart idea of placing lights under the water. Don't forget to subscribe and hit the bell icon to get the latest video updates. [background music]