- The easy part is to do my job. The hard part is to do it differently than the others have done it before. - As a millennial leader, a lot of the people put drawing a lot of conclusions about what you're able to accomplish How do you feel about these comments that are being made about you, about your age and your - Well, I think I develop So I really don't pay much attention to it when it's pejorative and when it's... I focus it more as an opportunity. People tend to disregard young people. But at the same time, about what young people have to say. And so, take advantage of the second part, and just develop a hard - Your campaign, what you for your presidential fought on social media. - You didn't do any debate stages. - You didn't go to terrestrial television. - No. Why did you do that, - I'll give you an example. My wife was pregnant and because she had the risk So I tried to stay a lot and we watched 10 episodes And my opponents were campaigning. So she was like, &quot;Babe, you And I say, &quot;Well, where She got on to Twitter and said, &quot;Oh, well, he just arrived in &quot;And he has as meeting &quot;I don't know, in pictures, &quot;Okay.&quot; Then I will take my Facebook and post something. A picture with a message. And suddenly I would have like, 100,000 likes here, and and 100,000 there. I said, &quot;See, I reached 300,000 people, &quot;and he reached 500.&quot; And he had to move and I'm with my wife - Wow! - It's like when they invented gunpowder. And people went into with swords and bows and arrows. And the other army carried gunpowder. Of course the other army will win. So I think social media, now, it's like gunpowder in politics. - Wow, so it's that powerful. - I mean, do you credit - How much time do you - My phone, on average, six hours a day. - Six hours. What tools should I use to reach you? - As a millennial, you should I will 100% watch that. - Well, TikTok is more But I'm gonna open one. - There's rumors ... - Yes, I have to because and some of them are - Is that a world exclusive - What? I got a world exclusive. - Yes, yes, yes, yes, I'm - Talk to me about legitimate You are in a country that's being plagued with incredible difficulty. - And you've spoken in the past about legitimate power You've done something I've which is, you've said that that you are not going to they already have illegitimate power, and you're not going Is that the right way to go about dealing with one of the - Well, see, no not ignore them. We have lowered crime by more than 60%. - What has your approach done? Why have you managed to do - Because, well, several, several things. First, is a pragmatic approach. Well, I asked for a heat map, But actually the homicides were that we got it with red dots. And then said, &quot;Okay, let's &quot;in all of the red dots.&quot; We cut communication from the jails. And the other thing that we did is that before, that we just they would just take 100 kids in a truck, so they'd take them to jail. And that was, of course, you you were taking kids that are underage and they will be out soon. So, you were not actually fighting crime. What we do now is that, we put more in intelligence So, when you have a lot then you can go and take away that make the structure work. So then the whole of the - Transparency International is one of the biggest indicators for whether a state is - Yes. - Indeed, there is - Of course, yes. - And you have made of your campaign and the presidency. - We're fighting it. - So, I mean, what is more dangerous, the cartels, the gangs, the traffickers, or the corrupt politicians? And how are you gonna deal with that, with people within your own civil service, administration, that are corrupt? What is your plan? - Well, they feed from each other. I mean, because when there there's something that There's someone that So you have the cartels. You have the business people or they don't want to play by the rules. You have the corrupt politicians. You have people that want the so they give money to and they charge more, and the people and starts not only of the politician, who bought, who pays, or So we're actually fighting We just created an international the Organization of American States. So it's going to be an that is going to fight corruption. It's already, it's already And it's already installed in El Salvador. It has already, it has already a mandate. So, and we're, we have to like... This is, I'm gonna take but he said that when you you sweep them from the top You cannot sweep from the bottom up. - You surely must worry or be fearful of what the consequences of that are. If you're gonna tackle this are you not worried as president? - It's a little hard, it would They can, I mean, that can happen. But you know, it's not going You see, a lot of Salvadorans, would not live in a But there are a lot of Salvadorans that live in a constant state of danger. - I've met them. - Probably more than me. So why would I be crying or when people... There's a lot of people with - What message do you have for children, for mothers and fathers that are in the United States illegally, in camps, kids in cages, what message do you have for them? - Well, I just think that our population for so long, that people prefer to risk their lives, crossing three borders, a losing their lives or the to escape a reality that we have created. Because, you can-- - So you hold yourself accountable? - Of course, because, I mean, you can't always blame somebody else. You can say, &quot;Oh, it's the or, you know, whatever But the reality is that people are not fleeing the United States and going to El Salvador. People are fleeing El Salvador Actually that has, the But still, a lot of people no opportunities, no to provide a living for their family. So they say, &quot;Okay, I'm &quot;a desert, and probably end up in a cage.&quot; So it's not, it's not, that is not... I just, I would say, &quot;I'm sorry,&quot; because it's the fault of our system. It's the fault of the society that failed them and made on a journey that ended - You recently went down - No, then I went up to 91 again. - Yes, you have. Couldn't get my question out. You were at 93% in September, and now you're at 91%. - Some world leaders could only dream of those kind of numbers. How do you achieve it? - We just do what we think is best. We're just very, very honest with things. We're not perfect. You know, if you see, for they had in the millions. And you do see protests in El Salvador. You could see protests, protesting for a very specific thing. And, the conditions in than the conditions in El Salvador. So it's not a thing of - So what is it? You know, to the extent that - Well, first because, I love them back. But second because I know, I don't know, I think just people feel And even if we're not perfect we'll never be. We're really trying our - President Bukele, thank - Thank you.