- If I'm some random person it changes the Google results when I search to try and influence me. Is that something you've said, yeah? - Yes, that is exactly what it does. And what happens is, at They actually have many, But this one is a specific This is something they've They said their goal is to on Google search depending or what it is you believe. So if they find that they they change the first People ask me, what should I do? Do I need a de-Googled phone? Do I need a VPN? Do I need to do all this? I never get to explain the why, because YouTube doesn't Maybe your channel will The AI can determine, They can actually look 57% of the people who looked I mean, that's how far it can go. I'm not telling you to be If you can stop them from tracking the identity, that's enough. Yeah - Hey everyone, David Bombal Rob, welcome! - It's great to have you here. So just for people who don't know you, you've got a YouTube channel, but perhaps you can just give You were telling me a bit what are your background, and basically and what you're - Well, I'm a very techy kind of person. I started with a tech I was just picking Bill Gates's So I was a chief architect founded several companies, and 10 years ago, I started and one of the things I So I was on Periscope and did and that's where I built a following. Then when Periscope was going And I've never done videos with my videos because I don't (shutter snapping) because I came from the livestream world. And I focus on one thing, And it comes from a little because my actual original I designed and developed or electric health records, I was one of the inventors of that. And I knew back then that anyone could look at anyone's health records if you're affiliated with any company that does health records. - So that was the beginning of because I could look up I could look up stars. I had clients in Beverly Hills. I could look at stars plastic surgery, as an example, I said, look at what people can! - [David] That's crazy. - Right, and then the government came in and said, &quot;Oh, we're &quot;live data from the doctor's office, &quot;and as it's being collected, &quot;so we can stop the flow So they can actually intercept and say, &quot;Hey, you can't order &quot;You can't order an MRI,&quot; So that kinda bothered me, because again, it was like a bureaucrat And this is probably the beginning of when I already knew Then when I did my one of the things that that was happening with So I became the anti-Facebook - You've gotta tell us the name. You've got a domain and Sorry, I'm jumping the gun. (Rob laughs) you're jumping the gun on that. Yeah, so I became famous for introducing the word &quot;what the Zuck.&quot; I said &quot;zucking&quot; this and &quot;zucking&quot; that. This is all good on YouTube, no problem. I say this all the time on YouTube. So the algorithm knows that now. I'm completely anti-Facebook was the true evil, the more evil than Google or It's just so evil, because of something that we will discuss So I became the anti-Facebook person. But when I went to YouTube, I found out that if I spoke about - [David] Oh, wow. - So the videos weren't every time I attacked Facebook. This is the reason why you don't see much on Facebook in my videos. Maybe they have an (David and Rob laughing) So I focus on Big Tech in general and see if there's somebody abusing it. So I consider myself a public servant. What I do is to expose people to what's being done to them whoever, affecting their - That's great. I mean, it's becoming a problem. I think there's a lot of interest and a lot of worry about feel that companies and I mean, I live in the UK. There's laws in this country have to log every website and a lot of people are I mean, this is supposed You're in the US, and I feel the same way about some stuff. - The Five Eyes, as you know, are more aggressive at They're supposed to be the countries protecting And yet, some of 'em are One of the extreme countries with privacy is probably Australia, and I think they're then followed by the UK, in my opinion, the UK is probably, as far Then US is, well, obviously There are factors here that prevent them from So fortunately, there's (David laughs) I've heard you use this other people have as well, Can you explain why you'd wanna do that? I heard you say in other videos and interviews and whatnot about, there's like five things or and then I wanna get to Android or iOS, and you've got some interesting views on that as well. So perhaps we can just start a phone, and why you do that, - So if you actually have a normal, what I call a &quot;normy phone,&quot; is an iPhone or a standard Google Android. If you have a normy phone, they have so much spyware in there, and if you actually research for example, on the Google Android, the spyware is called Google Services. If you actually look if you actually look at the and it's actually my next video, explaining how it's being and then you can actually see And some of 'em are very, very invasive. For example, SafetyNet is one SafetyNet is supposed to Your phone is being protected point of view, as far by not letting you load certain apps. But to run SafetyNet, report every app that you the version number, the On top of that, every click that goes to any URL, and sent to Google as part of SafetyNet. Well, I mean, it doesn't take any genius to figure out what's happening here. So Google then can track Already we know that. Google also knows every click you make. Now, they're in the advertising business, but it goes beyond that, because of course they're If they can go to every click, I mean, what do you think's gonna happen? So that is one of the on a phone, and if you actually look at the SafetyNet API, you And there's so much of that. Another example is the and nearby features of the Google API. That's part of the Google Services. More than that, what is the other one? Exposure, exposure notifications, which has to do with, of All of this is part of which means Google has so much control knowing your location, and the is that the phone tracks This is true of iPhones too, by the way. So they can track your location 24/7, and people are disputing they can go into settings They don't understand the difference. They don't understand that since there's no restriction replace the system files with Now, why is de-Googled phone different? De-Googled phone removes There actually nothing Google, There is no Google at all. You can't even install any Google app. Because there's no Google at there's no notifications, You can put notifications some of these features back, some other application framework But without the Google Services, first of all, there's immediate benefits. First of all, there is no Google ID. That's one of the worst Everything you do on a Everything you do on an On a de-Googled phone, you never log in. - Yes, so in other words, your email, it's your identity, isn't it? That phone is locked to you, as opposed to with your credit - And you can't hide that. - So another question, Android or iPhone? - They're both bad. - So you would go de-Googled - I probably would go Android. The tracking on an iPhone The one that really bothers me the most is the client-side scanning, where they can run an algorithm that says, &quot;Let's find all the phones I mean, goodness, do we need - Yeah, I mean, I understood the idea of why they were doing it here just to keep the but the original reason seemed but the unintended consequences of that were crazy from a privacy point of view. 'Cause like you say, if they today they decide this, but to scan for other things, - The justification for was that, yeah, it's hands-off. The AI does the scanning, so The problem is, they could do so why weren't they doing it on iCloud, meaning it was a solution In this case, why introduce when you could have just So the only reason I can think of is they have bigger motives. They wanted to do something else. I have some ideas of what that I think the phone will be That's where this is going. - Sorry, what do you mean - Because the AI, meaning of the phone, can actually As an example, why couldn't a phone react and determine that there's Maybe that's what they're shooting for. It's scary sometimes when I (David laughs) Most of the time, they come true; they actually are thinking of that. The iPhone has that Neural Network in it. What is the Neural Network for? Obviously, it's based its own decisions from AI in there and looking at the Is it really just for facial recognition? No, the way that this it can look at the camera &quot;I'm observing something that not just a face, a behavior. The AI can determine, They can actually look &quot;57% of the people who looked &quot;They didn't smile. &quot;70% laughed.&quot; Come on, I mean, that's how far it can go. Now, there's another thing that's actually really, really bad with the and that's the device identity. And it's based on the IMEI, the International Mobile and that is unique to every phone. That's basically the serial Now, they can take that, and on Android that's called and that's built for notifications, which is also a semi-permanent ID. On Apple, there's the advertising ID. There's also a similar So because of these they are using the phone now So it doesn't matter what device you use. They say to you, &quot;Oh, you need 2FA, so then you say, &quot;Okay, I guessed I'm forced to But they don't really care That's not really what they're doing. They want you to load the because the Google app can see for the device IDs, and it that what you do on your computer, even at work, is the that you are the same person. They can then use that to track you. A de-Googled phone There's actually, since Android 10, you cannot see a device phone numbers, all of that, Well, on de-Googled phone, is de-Googled is you're using open source, Android Open Source Project. So I looked at the source code. There is no way to see any of that, 'cause that's in the basic permissions. And if you know SELinux, so SELinux, being the security Every app has to be compiled with SELinux, and the permissions are So you can't do anything that's outside of the That's the way Android is set up. So in the case of a de-Googled phone, no app can come in at the system level that has any rights beyond For this reason, it is impossible for an app to gain access because there are no system Everything is open-source. For that reason, one of the that de-Googled phone does is that the phone has no identity. That's probably the number-one So this is something I teach because they don't understand this. They're relating it to cybersecurity. In cybersecurity, you're trying to protect the input and output into the phone. You're trying to actually which is almost impossible so much telemetry going So the goal that I've found works best is not to worry about what but to take out the identity. If they can't attribute an and one specific identity, So you have to go back. I have a data science background because I was doing medical information, collecting medical data, on that at the time when I was doing that. And we understand that you In fact, in medical, you're supposed to strip In Google/Apple world, that's not true. The identifiers are in there. So the solution to not allowing them to get control of us and our ideas and what we really do is So just to put this in a big and I don't wanna mention because every time I do it I lose views, so it may be tied to but Google has a division called Jigsaw. Jigsaw has a partner in the UK, and this partner is tied about certain groups and Originally, the original was to find the Muslim That was the original project. And that was the justification. They said, &quot;Hey, this is a good project, &quot;because look what we're doing! &quot;We're saving the world from extremists!&quot; And nowadays, that same group now actually have made a map of people, for example, who have anti-vax views in Actually, they have a map. I looked at the map. I actually posted a video of the map, posted a picture in the video of that map where I picked a place like the dots where people's Google IDs identify the locations of So you can actually count by area how many people have anti-vax views. My goodness, what an invasion of privacy! - Is this something they Is that right? - It was, and then I maybe because I published it, and they didn't wanna - I heard you say you heard something. They try and filter the on Google, to try and something like that? Is that right? - Well, they do using this Jigsaw. But I'm saying that even if what I say causes them depending on the topic, that I talk about don't get any views. I don't really know why. - If I'm some random person it changes the Google results when I search to try and influence me. Is that something you've said, yeah? - Yes, that is exactly what it does. What happens is, at They actually have many, But this one is a specific This is something they've They said their goal is to affect the first page results on Google search, depending on what it is you So if they find that they they change the first Snowden I believe was that the project that was done in the UK actually went further. They actually changed the internet for certain individuals in So I don't know exactly what I'm thinking of something to actually 'cause it's a website; you can do that. That's some of the because it's not published. But the stuff I'm talking They actually stated that's what they do. - But it's worrying that they can change, sorry to interrupt, they based on an identifier of who you are and seemingly what you believe, and they wanna influence - Right, so they actually have In fact, Google was planning on doing what they call Cohorts. They wanted to change the way they tracked for advertising by assigning based on what you believe. So you may be in a cohort of versus sports-interested people They can create as many cohorts Then you can belong to a thousand cohorts. By doing that, they can and then have the AI The judging, of course, as far is, is that Google changes presumably for some target. In theory, they're not doing They're doing it for the target people. So some people are not affected. If they're in line with what Google wants, they don't do anything. So I've done so many because Google or YouTube suppresses it, but I've done several videos and every time I talk the explanation for why you This is the why. I can't ever get to the why. People ask me, what should I do? Do I need a de-Googled phone? Do I need a VPN? Do I need to do all this? I never get to explain the why, because YouTube doesn't So maybe your channel (Rob laughs) - Yeah, I mean, I think I've interviewed other Some people say, you As long as I'm not breaking But I suppose the problem is laws change and perceptions I think a lot of people would like Google or the government If you have any kind of privacy beliefs, then you don't want to be tracked. It's a very good why. Are there any other why's - Well, I mean, it goes I mean, we always state the and that kind of environment. And unfortunately, we're already there. It's actually even worse than that. The 1984 book said your TV talks to you, and yet, we're talking to our phone. So we're doing exactly what except we're taking it with us. It's not even a fixed TV. In the book 1984, the TV is watching you. Here, your phone is watching you, and you take it everywhere. So it's like, in the book 1984, there were cameras everywhere, which is true today, but now - And where do you see it going? Is it gonna just get worse and worse, where perhaps governments or companies just try and control people? - Well, yes, we are already in the situation of Actually, we're beyond that The problem is where it's going, and this is where on my channel, into machine learning and robotics and AI, because that's really where We see it in a Tesla. We can see what a Tesla Now we're talking about a not only observe its it actually knows who you are, looking at a machine that can walk around. Think about a robocop. The robocop not only knows they actually know you individually. They say, &quot;I know your &quot;I know what you're doing.&quot; But as you know, even in you come into the border, at your phone and go check How far is this gonna go? And then we have AI doing that. - So your concern is the governments will control the population like in 1984, but we're already there and - That's correct. It's gonna be worse, and And we don't have a way to stop this. I don't know if you've ever discussed the singularity on your channel. So the guy that invented was Ray Kurtzweil, and he has The singularity is the day when the computers are Elon Musk keeps referring to this as something that he fears, and that's why he's saying and guys like Bill Gates say it's fine, guys like Zuckerberg saying it's fine. But when the singularity will be smarter than people, about any limit to what This is one of my big problems here, is what is the limit to It can go beyond what people can learn. That's gonna be here, they actually forecast The computer's gonna - Your concern is Skynet, It won't be in the movies, yeah? - I have so many videos on Skynet. They're all viral because But it's scary to me, and It's not just because of hype. I actually believe we're which is actually beyond 1984, because what is in Skynet? Machines, machines controlling us. This is actually where this can go, where somebody controls a few and then we're just a - So you are an advocate for privacy, and everyone should take this seriously because the problem is so much about us, and they And we will talk about it in this video. There are companies out there that are trying to influence our behavior, and you just see the slippery slope, where it's just gonna get - So somebody has a vision of the world, and you already know has some vision of the world, to their vision, 'cause At what point do we give &quot;Well, we want to have a choice,&quot; rather than have the This is what worries me, because of course, can control the machines. The problem is, if you give as you provide a government, you really put yourself in because that is so much Apple, for example, being the And people actually believe when Apple says, &quot;Oh, privacy company.&quot; (melodic harp flourish) (man laughing loudly) - Are you serious? - I laugh at that, and it's like, yeah, the privacy company than any other phone, and yet Oh, but we don't sell your data! Okay, that's true. We don't have any proof but there's proof that they've with government, because They're part of MUSCULAR, They were sharing their data. - I think the problem is if it's based in a or jurisdiction like the UK or whatever, if there's a court order, they have no choice but Apart from saying, even if it's like the governments could force a company to give over data, and I think that's another - Well, that's the government I don't have a choice either. If the government asked me to give data, I have to give data. My solution is to not collect the data. So my websites don't have IP addresses. I don't log it. If somebody asks me for So many platforms do that, right? My VPNs don't track IP address. I don't have a log for it. But, Apple, on the other They even have client-side scanning that can check the content of your phone. - Yeah, there was a big uproar about that. - Yeah, and people were I mean, Apple stated it already. &quot;Show me proof that they're It's like, even if they weren't like you said, the because they have the feature. They have the feature for tracking your phone This is something I discovered and that is your Find My Phone is actually not attached to your Apple ID. Find My Phone is actually So they can do a Find even if it's still in the store before anyone's ever used it. When you go into the store and say, &quot;I'm gonna activate Find is associating yourself with They're collecting it all the time. It's actually built into the OS. And that is extremely they're tracking, just like - I mean, Snowden's a good example of what was possible even years ago. I mean, what could they do today? - I didn't know about what lemme do a video, 'cause can your phone track you So that was the question I raised. Now, without any background I typically just did a I said, why would do that, why would they wanna do So I theorized. I said, that technology could BLE, and there's already an Apple network that can do BLE, so that So I went into this, what benefit it might be I said, well, Apple might use they can find your phone if it's stolen. So that really is the video. The video actually did not, The video was not based on any knowledge of what actually was being done by Apple, and I found out that They actually put it in, and the feature was that when your phone is (Rob laughs) This is the kinds of stuff I what might happen based on and in my case, all I do and say, how can that be abused? And often, actually, most of the time, I'm correct, if I say, can that be abused, and they do. So in that case, Apple - So I wanna go back to the that's tied to your identity. I mean, you said, okay, the first issue is phones have your real which means if you've got an iPhone or an Android phone, whatever you go, you're and it's tied back to So a government organization, I mean, Google can track Every device has a fingerprint. That's the IMEI number, is that right? And you mentioned contact tracing. That became a big thing during COVID, but it just showed the capability, right? - So that is based on the Bluetooth Low Energy, which, where I show this new we all have Bluetooth. We already know Bluetooth But using the same to convert Bluetooth into If you're a hacker type, and your Bluetooth emits the Mac address. You know, it announces the and if you have the proper you can intercept that layer of TCP/IP, learn the Mac address, and do many things to do But if you stop just at the Bluetooth is announcing a unique identifier with the Mac address. Well, they use that because but Bluetooth is closer, so you can actually ascertain But Bluetooth BLE now works So you can actually, this is worse: Bluetooth can actually be directional. It not only knows how far you are; it can say you're within it actually has a compass heading that says you're on the Now, wifi can't do that. Location tracking uses wifi triangulation, which is accurate to six feet. BLE or Bluetooth used in That's why AirTag uses So unfortunately, was software only, so there So if you have a Bluetooth 4.2 and above, you already have this active. So they were able to turn And one of the advantages is that it did not use a lot of power. You can actually use Even with a small battery, because it's pulses. If you're sending you're not using that much power. So they were able to use and they actually built it into the OS. So it's built into iOS and then they built into Android also during that time So in 2020, they added and that bothered me already back then. Now, fortunately, people they didn't go install contact It doesn't stop the The apps we install is basically for us to feel like we but in theory, how do we How do we know what's in Google Services? How do we know if Google can't collect it? They can say, &quot;Well, we're but in order for it to This is what worries me What do they actually do? - You mentioned the problem with, was it the Ring doorbells ad the Alexas? Can you explain that, because it's the same kind - This is Amazon now, so it's a little different tech problem, because Amazon itself that we worry about, because they don't make the phones. We're not being tracked We're being tracked from We're not tracked in any other way. But what we don't know is that Amazon is one of the largest In fact, they provide in the Amazon Government Cloud. They run most of the internet So, they are part of the main computer infrastructure, for government. And what they did was they They said, &quot;Hey, people, promote Ring. &quot;Government agencies, law enforcement, &quot;promote Ring as your preferred camera, &quot;and what we will do is give So Ring, if you're doing Ring, you're actually collecting all the videos, putting it into Amazon, and basically, you're being facially what you do in your house by In fact, how do I even If I walk in my neighborhood, is gonna capture my face and do that. There's a hack, by the way. I should make a video about that. Well, you should know how to do this. You can just block the wifi Block the wifi so that the while you're walking there. I mean, that's a very common hack. (David laughs) - I think you were saying the have this BLE thing, and Is that right? - Right, so this is the actual, beyond just what Ring and that Alexa can collect all What they did was build when can actually transmit using the network of Ring which, probably a good chunk They can transmit at a fairly good range. So in theory, every metropolitan area is covered by Amazon And so, now we have a that's outside of the for anything, and they can basically take the surveillance from a Ring camera and report it even which of course Apple also does And these are like, scary technologies, because what can they use it for? They can bypass the internet, so they can do things without a trace. - I understand the concern. These big companies know so many about us. I mean, there's so many stories where people will say they or they mentioned some they get ads for that It's a huge invasion of privacy. So how do you stop it? How do you de-Google a I believe there are and you recommend one of the ways. Is that right? - Yeah, there's many ways to do it, but the basic way is to does not have any Google into an Android Open Source Project phone. You have to reflash the phone. Back in the day, several years ago, I was promoting the use of Linux phones. Unfortunately, we can't find hardware that actually works too well The phone that I have is a PinePhone. I'm very supportive of that platform, but the technology just isn't there. Like for example, the power The phone doesn't work completely There's some limitations. And the power lasts only like eight hours. It doesn't last the whole day. So there's some of the limitations. That's why I cannot recommend them. So I'm not necessarily as long as I know it's gonna run. So what I've been or Android Open Source Project, I make my own phone. So I have this one here. This is a BraX2 phone, BraX2 OS. So we made our own phone using I also take Pixels, and I where we can flash Pixels for you. So we flash the Pixels. Either you buy one from and we flash your Pixels using LineageOS, and that's a service we offer. Now, one of the reasons about these OSes, 'cause is that I've chosen the will have the least Some of the OSes that are You can't run any kind of app that's from Google Play, for example. I find that that will cause more rejection from my followers, which a So I tend to go with kind of In this case, I use But the BraxOs is so we actually work on the OS ourselves. I have a dev team that - Is that different to LineageOS then? - Yes, it is completely different, yeah. - You flash the phone and put or another option would be to use LineageOS to flash the phone, yeah? - And there's other ones. For example, there's CalyxOS So there's other options. I don't necessarily push others, because I gotta support 'em. And if I have to support and they say, &quot;Well, why can't So I've made my choices. It's something that's consistent for me, and it's not perfect. Some people claim that they're not perfect because there's still some for example, notifications. If you do notifications, you have to communicate with Google. When you go to any When you run any app, there's a tracker. Well, there's a tracker just because you have Well, how do you escape that? For a standard user, there's I'm not even sure you can because of browser fingerprinting. The solution is, don't They can track you all you who you are, it's basically A de-Googled phone is a solution where it's as close as possible to a good regular phone, - So let me see if I get this right. You get like an Android with Kali Linux or Graphene So you're flashing the device. Then you don't have to have an account that's tied to that device. But what about apps? So how do you get apps? You see, that's always the concern, apps. - It's not just flashing LineageOS. You have to make sure the Google Services, which So you don't install Google, 'cause standard install is you install AOSP, and So you skip that step, so that's that. - So you wouldn't get - Right. So some of these OSes that you mentioned will not allow you to install with any methodology to outside of the apps And the main safe sorts of is an opensource store called F-Droid. F-Droid apps are secure, I because they do not have There's no telemetry. So that's fine. Unfortunately, they're For example, how do you get Zoom? How do you get Spotify? How do you get Kindle, you know, Amazon. Some of these typical So how do you do that? Well, that's why I went with and the solution is that a store spoofer and a And the store spoofer so that's an open-source and the Google Services So I always install microG and Aurora Store on my de-Googled phones. So if you have those go to the Google Play Store equivalent. The Aurora Store is from the Google Play It's an anonymous account. Then it's able to download when they run, they think because what happens is they're actually named so it actually has a Google name. microG intercepts that, because and the apps think Google But in reality, many of the functions meaning they call the an error, so they say, &quot;Oh, So they say, &quot;Oh, geolocation, &quot;or geofencing, it's geofencing here.&quot; They make a call, it so they say, &quot;Okay, it's running.&quot; So that's how you get apps to work. Now, microG, the one that has the capability for actually So that's truly Google. So it actually processes comes back through microG, And notifications is the main one that continues to work, But, not all apps work For example, you can't you can't have any of that. You've gotta find You can't run anything because there's no wallet. Other than that, believe it - Yeah, I mean, it's always a toss-up between how private do you Like, security, inconvenience what are you gonna go for? I mean, if you want total your computer into any power You just have it off and put It's very secure, but it's And it sounds like what you're trying to make a sort especially non-techy because some people are all the hassle of buying A lot of this audience will, Then they can just buy a phone from you that's pre-flashed, is that right? - Right, so yeah, the I mean, to buy those phones, are the ones that do not And some of 'em are techy too. I mean, it doesn't have to be. You don't have to be 'cause these phones are inexpensive, so they can buy one if they want. Again, I found out, it to go study this and understand the issue. Since I cannot fight Google they're too big to fight, there's no way: IP who knows what else they can track. If you stop them from collecting identity, a lot of their data science stuff stops, because the AI doesn't work So they know what you watch on YouTube, but if they can't file it to an account, I mean, what do they know? Just imagine if your subscribers, you have a lot of subscribers. What if they did not have a Google ID? It would be hard to figure out who your market is, wouldn't it? - Exactly. Google Analytics, from our channels, and we can see the age and what are their other - Browser they use, yep. It's amazing how much data we - Probably in my case, my Google Analytics is not as accurate, because we already know that For example, according my subscribers are 90% male. Well, I know that's false and I know many of those it's definitely closer to - But lemme ask you some Which browser do you recommend? So on a computer, which - All. - All of them, because you're saying you're hiding your You wouldn't mind using Chrome? - I have a very specific program. For anything that I'm gonna do Google login with, I use Chrome. So if I'm gonna use If I'm gonna use Gmail, well, I don't use Google Now, you might say, Well, I have no choice. I'm a YouTube creator, I mean, on Google with a Google ID. But, what I do is I do not do anything that's not Google on Chrome. I do not ever go into any website that I don't want Google to see. If I'm gonna do something on Chrome that I want Google to Otherwise, I don't do it. Actually, on the top of my and I have a limited list of Now, if I need to go on I have a second browser. For me, my second browser is Brave. And the reason I use Brave deletes cookies when you So when I go to YouTube, for let's say videos that I don't want YouTube to see me doing on my account, and then when in get done, it's gone. I never log in. Never, never, never log Then I have a third browser. Now, again, my choice are completely up to you. I'm using Linux, so on Linux, I'm using Chromium as my third browser. So it's up to you. Use whatever you want; So you just need a lot of So on my third browser, which is Chromium, that's where I do everything else. Now, the advantage of that is that there's no crossover of information, because Google cannot see It's impossible. So there's no connection, 'cause So if there's no nothing that connects Chrome to Chromium. So I go to any website, Amazon, I'll do it on Chrome. I go to my app, Brax.Me, This is a technique I invented I was talking about it on social media close to 10 years ago, and I And by doing this, it stops the importance of browser fingerprinting and because they can't track and the identity in this If you can stop the Google they can track, but they - So you use Chrome for the stuff that you want Google to do and then you use Brave Did I understand that right? And then for private or did I misunderstood that? - I use Brave for Google not logged in. So I would never log into Gmail on Brave. But if I needed to go to on how to fix my drain, and I that or YouTube know But there's certain topics and I chose not to allow Google on certain things; for example, politics. - And that's when you use Chromium or Firefox or something else, yeah? - That's where I use Brave for. - So then why the third one? Sorry, I didn't get that third one. - The third one has no never touches Google. I never go to YouTube, never go to anything Google The reason is the trackers for Google Analytics are on Every website with Google The moment they see a Google So you've gotta stop them - So you use your third browser to only go to specific website that - Any website has Google But the third browser has anything that can log me in, never. - So Chrome is where you have a logged-in profile to Brave is like your private browser window, but you're using a separate browser window, and that's as if you're doing a and the third one is where I suppose the concern is, or Facebook track you anyway because Google Analytics and stuff and Facebook tracking gets They are tracking you, but so they can't connect it to a Google ID. There's no way, 'cause you've never been on Google on the third browser. If you make a mistake, It's not the end of the world. It's clear cookies, start again. Every time you clear cookies, So on the third browser, I I know that, 'cause every - Exactly, yeah. - But, they don't know anything. I mean, they don't know who it is. And I use a VPN too, so my third browser could look like anybody else's browser. - And do you use Linux your main operating system? You don't use Mac or Windows, yeah? - Well, I'm a developer, but my primary one is Linux. So some computers are Like, I have a video this computer here, and 'cause I gotta run Adobe Premiere Pro. But, my normal use computer is Linux. I'm using Pop! OS. - So your three browsers That's where you do your surfing and your internet stuff and 'Cause I like Macs just for to me, the halfway It gives you the ability to but it has some more security. It's more like Linux in many So that's interesting. Sorry, go on. - There's no tracking with Windows since I'm My main activities are on Linux. - So what you're doing virtual machines, you're for different use cases, yeah? - Right, unfortunately, and stuff like that, you They're not suited for that. The one thing, if anything, the main thing that I do is I try to bring a computer and my phone is just for emergency stuff. I try not to do too much on the - Which search engine do you use? - [Rob] I use Startpage. In fact, it's pre-installed on my phones. - So you use that on your phone and your laptop, yeah, - Well, you know, I - [David] Yeah, but there's - There's controversy about that. Startpage has their own but I am in contact with and they seem to be on the up-and-up. - What about the Brave search engine? Sorry to interrupt. - So my phone here is - Would you use a Brave - They're not that good, - You prefer Startpage, yeah? - Yeah, I mean, I'm open to that. Unfortunately, DuckDuckGo you could find on F-Droid There may be some smaller but on F-Droid, I didn't have a choice. So Brave is actually not from F-Droid, which I didn't like to do, but I don't have a choice - Do you have a VPN on the whole time, or is that just when you're - One of the things I promote So for example, my house For that reason, I don't even VPN-wise, 'cause the VPN I don't think it's necessary You can hide stuff from the carrier, but most things are TLS nowadays. So I'm not sure it's as on cell data, even though because I have a Brax I mean my VPN router, which, I don't think about it anymore, but I don't necessarily about the VPN if you don't want - So in other words, the reason to get a VPN router is that it's just easier. You've got one device; are getting their traffic You have your own VPN like Proton VPN would - You can use any VPN router. I mean, there are companies Mine was just an inexpensive VPN routers, 'cause most VPN routers The problem is, I based my and you can't buy one now. - Yeah, that's a problem, yeah. - So I don't have a choice. So you can find something else right now, 'cause I can't sell mine, - It's mad, having to buy Raspberry Pis off of eBay and stuff like that. It's crazy how expensive they've got. Would you let them put or connect your brain to and these ideas that people are pushing? Because it sounds like we don't we, with the phone? I think Elon Musk said it, and you've said that We're already chipped. We've just got a phone, right? - Well, Elon Musk's idea to fight the AI by having That's more of what Elon is trying to do. He wants to enhance our capability to fight the AI by having our own AIs. - Companies can know so much about us because we've got a even though some people are doing that, but it's basically carried - Right, it's almost like society is pressing us to always use the phone. We can't even go to a to pop your phone and look There's this push in society that you are not normal if And I'm trying to break away from that. - Yeah, it's mad. I mean, you can't do some banking these days without a phone. Everything's tied to an SMS or a two-factor It's as if you can't live - And the abuse of as I talked about frequently, that instead of just being for what they call cross-device tracking. So actually, they don't even They just want to know because they know you 'cause the location is tracked on here. - Are you positive about the future? When you get into this privacy stuff and you're pushing against make you depressed that - It's very depressing, I can't say I'm winning right now. I have to say that I'm losing. My goal was, if I could of the population that this is important, how many subscribers do you need to have to have one percent of the population? That's pretty big. - There's a problem with versus convenience, - Because they don't think And some of it is kind of interesting. I find some older people saying, &quot;Well, I'm old already; &quot;So what if they know anything about me?&quot; But they don't realize by giving in that they're actually and their grandchildren and everybody else into the same pattern, So, unless everybody fights, we lose. And the only battle is I'm just saying, stop them It's that simple. If you do that, data science fails. The data science fails. It doesn't have to be so sophisticated. You don't have to be a I'm not telling you to be If you can stop them from tracking the identity, that's enough! - Thank you for making us and not just technical people, and talking about not just if you're an older of your children and your Any last words before we wrap this up? - This is not just about you. So you may not care, but your everyone after you will and you have to defy this world now. - Rob, thanks so much. Yeah