Protecting your privacy on iPhone is more And with iOS 17, there are lots of new tools than ever. But as usual, hackers keep coming out with So we're going to walk you through all the starting with app tracking transparency. I'll open the Settings app and scroll down Then second one from the top is tracking. Tap on that. Here you'll find the option, allow apps to Flip this switch off and voila, you've just the internet. It's like putting on an invisibility cloak While we're here, let's talk about the app system. To access this, we're going to go to Settings, Tap back to privacy and security. And then I'm going to scroll down and tap Here you can turn it on and start seeing details You can also see the app privacy report. You can also see detailed reports of app activities. It's like having CCTV. Is that still a thing? I think it is. For your data, showing you how often each and more. It's a great way to see who's been partying Now let's talk about sprucing up your iPhone's It's time to clean up your digital house and love for coffee on Monday mornings. First off, the automatic verification code It's like having a self-cleaning oven. It's like having a self-cleaning oven, but We'll tap back and then back to the main page We're going to scroll down here to passwords password options. Here you'll find cleanup automatically. Flip this switch and your iPhone will automatically been used. When it comes to shared password and passkey being part of a secret club, but with digital Let's explore how to manage those shared secrets. To check if you're already a member of this in the passwords section of Settings and I Let's tap on that and then you can check to this party. You can tap here on the number of members that I, David Payette, am the owner of this Kind of like peeking into a VIP lounge to Now, if you're the group owner and you need not partying responsibly. Go to Settings, password, and select the group, the member. It's like telling someone, sorry, you can't Remember, once you remove someone, they might shared. So it's wise to change the locks, or in this might have written them down somewhere. You never know. All right, let's tackle the art of blocking like to avoid. It's your digital do not disturb sign that iPhone. The journey begins in the land of Settings. Where else? I'll tap on Settings to open it and then tap And for phone calls, you guessed it, we're Here you'll find the block contact section, callers. It's like having a bouncer for your phone And it's kind of a nice trip down memory lane, You know, you get to see, oh, wow, I've blocked How many people have you blocked over time? Leave a comment below. I'd actually be curious to know. Let's talk about FaceTime. Do you want to have no FaceTime with certain Well, let's tap back to Settings and head bottom. That's where you'll find blocked contacts. This is your tool for making sure your video And what about messages? To block those texts you'd rather not receive, And here you'll find a lot of people who have So let's go back to Settings and tap on messages. Under SMS or MMS, we'll scroll down there. Tap on blocked contacts to take a look at Consider this the equivalent of a no junk or something like that. If we've learned anything, it's the blocking phone, FaceTime, messages, and mail. It's like a universal, you shall not pass. For your selected contacts. And if you ever have a change of heart, unblocking Now let's talk about how to keep your digital Word of the day. To start your covert browsing operations, I'll swipe up from the bottom of the screen This is your gateway to the internet without Once you're in Safari, you're just a couple putting on your digital inbox. And if you're in Safari, you're just a couple putting on your digital inbox. And if you're in Safari, you're just a couple putting on your digital inbox. And if you're in Safari, you're just a couple putting on your digital inbox. And if you're in Safari, you're just a couple When using private browsing, your browsing across your devices. So it's kind of like going to a masquerade remembers that you were there. It's especially handy if you're in a situation without leaving a breadcrumb trail for someone To activate private browsing, tap the tabs private on the left-hand side. The search field background will change, signaling One of my favorite things about private browsing Face ID now to access it. As long as you've turned that setting on, Let's head back to Settings, tap on that, page of Settings. And I'm going to scroll down to Safari and Then I'm going to scroll down to require Face I think that is a great feature. It's like having a secret passageway in your nobody knows you did. Whenever we record a video like this, we get too fast or we're going too slow. It makes our job kind of difficult. So what we decided to do is put together a with every setting we talk about in this video All you need to do is join the Pay It Forward description. Click the join button below the video. Continuing our digital journey, let's talk website data in Safari on your iPhone. You're giving your digital footprint a good To wipe your Safari slate clean, let's head am, and just tap clear history and website Now we have these awesome options where we yesterday, or all history. Bear in mind that if you do clear your history, website data. So you're going to have to click on that and So that makes it kind of a pain in the butt I don't clear my history as often as I used But if I were to tap clear history, and I'll magic eraser on your digital past. Clearing your history in Safari is like throwing It ensures that no one can retrace your steps, So when you need a fresh digital start, just magic begin. Now let's navigate to the location services We're going to decide whether you want to good, or land somewhere in between. So we'll tap back to Settings in the upper going to scroll up to privacy and security, With location services, as we've talked about your location with specific apps or not. So it's kind of like you're playing hide and When you turn off location services, you're But remember, even if you go into digital might still be able to find ways to guess And for safety's sake, your device will still So think of location services as your way only on my terms most of the time. It's about finding that sweet spot between Next, let's dive into the realm of sharing Here you get to manage your digital family Who gets a seat, and who doesn't? First off, family sharing. To manage your family sharing Settings, we're going to tap Back, go to the very top of the sharing. I'm the head of my digital family, and I know I have the power to remove anybody I want It's like I'm the Captain of the family ship. I decide who stays aboard and who walks the I've got the best way of moving my family you're watching a food show. But dark Starandead has utjed out all our Yuna back. Closest to our current data set, NyshaTai into this party. Next, we're gonna talk about location sharing, Find My app. Let's open the Find My app and tap People The People tab shows you all the people you're who are sharing their location with you. For instance, I can see Dad right here is If you want to go off the grid for someone, Location if you see that. Or in my case, I'm not sharing my location It's like turning off a beacon that says, And it might save some battery life for you. Next, we'll talk about shared albums in Photos not want to show your Christmas tree to everybody. Let's head to the Photos app, tap on Photos, Then scroll down here to Shared Albums and Here's where you can see who's been peeking If you want to stop sharing an album with then tap the little person circle thing, and top of the screen here. So I can tap on that person, even though he an Android user and all. I can tap Remove Subscriber down at the bottom. If you're a subscriber to somebody else's can't demo that, but you can tap Unsubscribe We've talked about people. Now let's talk about managing Settings for AirTags and other Find My Compatible accessories To make sure an AirTag isn't tracking you personal Settings. Here, you need to make sure that Bluetooth, are all turned on. To turn on tracking notifications, scroll Tracking Notifications, and just make sure Delivery is turned on. Remember, AirTags and other devices are great important to make sure they're not being used Now we're gonna shift gears and talk about Apple has for law enforcement requests for This is like understanding the rules of engagement In cases where there's a need for law enforcement account, perhaps in situations of technology-enabled specific process to follow. This is not a DIY scenario. You do need to team up with local law enforcement They're the ones who will submit a request Apple has a dedicated team within their legal legal requests from law enforcement agencies They're like the gatekeepers who ensure that We decided to make this video a little bit throughout that help illustrate the points What do you think about that? Leave a comment below. We're interested to hear your thoughts. Let's run through a quick personal safety accounts are secure. Some digital housekeeping, if you will. We're gonna make sure that only the right We're gonna check device access. To start, we're gonna go back to Settings. I'll tap back, and then back to the main page We're gonna tap on your name at the top. This is like checking the guest list for your If you scroll down, you can see all of the If you spot a device that makes you go, huh, on that device and select remove from account. It's like politely showing that guest the Second, let's talk about face ID and touch Well, we're in the thick of securing your It's a good idea to check for any unexpected touch ID fingerprints. I'll tap back to Settings, and I'll scroll and I'll enter my passcode. And then I don't have an alternate appearance appearance. If you do and you didn't set it up, somebody Same idea with extra fingerprints that are We're just double checking here that your have access. Lockdown mode. It's not your average security setting. It's the digital equivalent of turning your a siege of spain- Spun- It's the digital equivalent facing a siege of state-sponsored mercenary To turn on lockdown mode, it's simple. Tap back to Settings, then tap privacy and It's a few Settings below where we were. Then scroll to the bottom, tap lockdown mode. This is the highest security alert level in It's the break glass only in case of emergency of a sophisticated cyber attack. Not your everyday eavesdropping, but James What happens when you go into lockdown mode? Well, your iPhone goes into a sort of digital It's like having a bouncer for your web browser, What about Apple services? If someone hasn't called or sent you a request via Apple services like FaceTime. What about connecting your phone to your computer Can't do it, lockdown mode. You can't do much in lockdown mode. Now it's time to delve into the world of managing iPhone all from one place. Remember, in this high-tech world, your personal You don't want it falling into the wrong hands. Basically the same thing as your grandma's So let's get into how you can use safety check Safety check is a great feature, but remember phone to use it. If you're watching this video, you probably Let's step back to the main page of privacy check. Tap on that. Got a couple of options here. First, emergency reset. This is your emergency shutoff switch for It's like telling everybody talk to the hand And you can also change the Settings to manage your Apple ID. But for those of you who like to get into and access. And this is perfect for a detailed review with other people and apps. You can also update your device and Apple It's like playing detective with your own So how does safety check keep you safe? It lets you take control of who's privy to You can restrict messages in FaceTime to your password, change your password to your Apple Remember, managing privacy and security Settings under wraps. It's about ensuring that your digital life Next let's talk about why you might want to To reset your phone, we're gonna start in So I'm just gonna tap cancel here and tap scroll up to general. So we'll tap on general, and scroll up to Scroll to the bottom, tap on transfer or reset and Settings there. This is the point of no return. Once you tap this, your iPhone will forget After you tap the button, you're gonna need to wipe the slate clean. Then sit back and wait for your iPhone to If you're really concerned about your privacy, an iCloud backup that you set up your phone It's okay to save your phone, but you don't It's okay to sign into iCloud because then important things, but the actual backup could you to wanna reset your phone in the first And it's kind of like getting a brand new Stay safe, stay smart, most importantly, stay She was sitting in a really weird spot underneath Did she have her head on the thing? Yeah, I mean, she just- I took the same picture. Okay. Yesterday. So it's not, she, it's not just worn out. I thought she, it looks like she's- I thought like choking herself or something. Yeah, I was like, what is she doing? What are you doing? She seeks to be there now.