hey, welcome to 12tone! on May 28th, fellow called &quot;Why Today's Music Is So BORING. The Regression of Musical Innovation.&quot; *inhale, then sigh* alright. fine. let's go. (tick, tick, tick, tick, tock) this video is sponsored by Skillshare! right off the bat, I want to be really clear how this probably looks, I'm not actually that wouldn't be a productive use of anyone's this is YouTube, so no matter what I say some of war, but that's not what I'm going for. I don't have a problem with Rick's work in this particular livestream, though, presents of modern music, a topic I care very deeply seen by over 750 thousand people, many of recognize just how empty it really is. a lot of folks are gonna walk away from it the state of modern music, and my interest to be clear, though, I'm not interested in I don't know him, and it would be wildly inappropriate however, I do think someone needs to address not good, and that's what I intend to do. or, I'll do my best, because despite the provocative little in the way of actual arguments. he only ever mentions two modern songs by and the Jonas Brothers, and Leave The Door he also references a Justin Bieber song from and he doesn't really talk much about them, from the Jonas Brothers song sounds a lot he's not wrong. beyond that, though, he doesn't really try that for granted. instead, he seems much more interested in bunch of his favorites on guitar to demonstrate and this is a good segue into my first point, called the sieve of time. basically, in any historical moment, a lot this is true in every field, but for our purposes, music being made. as time passes, though, we as a society forget the farther we get from that moment, the more left with just the things that we've collectively remembering. like, let's go back 30 years to 1991. this it saw the release of the Chili Peppers' Blood Baby, Soundgarden's Badmotorfinger, Metallica's Gish, Green Day's Kerplunk, and, of course, are considered classics today, and with so for the number one single must've been fierce, so who won? Smells Like Teen Spirit? Give It Away? Alive? no, the number one single in 1991 was Everything the soundtrack for Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves. it sounds like this: (bang) and if you're chance this is the first time you've ever 30 years ago, though, it topped the Billboard all the evidence indicates that this song real staying power. now, to be clear, I'm not saying those rock they were. most of them sold well. Nevermind in particular sold really well. my point is that they weren't alone. it would've been very difficult to predict would still be relevant three decades later. that sort of insight is only available in music, we simply haven't had time to go through we don't know which songs are gonna have staying as such, comparing the songs that are popular ago is comparing apples to oranges. of course, the process by which we determine than just picking the best songs: there's bands I mentioned from 1991 are fronted by but one factor in that calculation is innovation. we tend to remember when things change. that's part of why 1991 is such an important a tectonic shift in the rock music landscape. this means the things we remember are often popular music at the time. if they were, they wouldn't be worth remembering. seriously, Wikipedia has Billboard's year-end go read some of those and see how many things but as for Rick's actual argument, it seems and simpler chords, which results in simpler his central complaint is that songs these chords from the same key, which we never used (Ain't No Sunshine plays) ok, but that's not (Any Way You Want It plays) yeah but that's (Heart-Shaped Box plays) ah, no, that one's (Eleanor Rigby plays) and that's two, but at least we can all agree that a song with (Chain Of Fools plays) alright, seriously, to talk needs to calm down. you are not helping. ok, so.. I have two major problems with this argument. the first is that it's a bait-and-switch: and melodic complexity. that is, he's saying how innovative a song and chords. this is a fairly common mistake I think the way we teach music theory encourages there's all sorts of ways to do interesting you can experiment with rhythms, orchestration, especially likes experimenting with production of tools for that now that literally didn't were made. if you want to know more about that, I'd recommend Dr. Asaf Peres, where he outlines a lot of pop music. like, consider this: (Montero plays) or this: plays) those were all released in 2021 by play, and I'd argue that all of them are doing and that's not even getting into all the fascinating are doing with the medium of YouTube. now, am I cherry-picking examples? yeah, absolutely, but so was Rick. the point there, if you actually bother to look for and the thing that's frustrating about this primarily with harmony for literally centuries. the entire Romantic period was basically just and once they were done, jazz picked up the harmonically speaking, most of the old songs what artists like John Coltrane and Thelonious like, sure, it's cool that Black Hole Sun that thing's in three keys at the same time. but innovation isn't just about pushing the it's also about finding new boundaries, new for all they're worth. are there still clever things left to do with some of them: as I've already argued in multiple is a perfect example of harmonic innovation but even if a song isn't doing anything complicated doing anything complicated at all. the deeper issue, though, is the implication first place. now, this isn't entirely wrong: if I were four minutes, that wouldn't make a very good but it goes the other way, too: if complexity to Ferneyhough, and if you didn't get that (bang) that's what pure musical innovation but it's pretty impenetrable. making music that other people can relate familiarity. in order for your audience to gotta give them something to expect. different genres, cultures, movements, and some of them are more complex overall, while areas. this is one of the reasons melodies have gotten and here's the thing: I'm pretty sure Rick I wanted more context for the argument he to his previous video, where he reacted to that. given the level of negativity in his stream, but... he didn't. of the 10 tracks he listened of them, and still had plenty of nice things throughout the video, he praised the songs' and on more than one occasion, their melodies. in fact, I'd like to play you a clip from that literally his only argument for why modern progressions. with that in mind, here's what by P!nk and Willow Sage Hart: (RICK: I hate progressions. I know that they've been played a million time I hear those. they're just so amazing. [plays chords] it's just so satisfying, even that's a good song.) and to be clear, I'm not cherry picking here. I didn't dig through dozens of Rick's videos it's in literally the last thing he published it had to have been fresh on his mind. now, I said I wasn't gonna question his motives, I don't think he's trying to trick you, or important to recognize that, once you strip how modern music sucks and simple progressions them. he has a theoretical preference for complexity, the danger of applying music theory carelessly: you like are bad, not because there's anything by the rules we made up. but ok, let's say modern music is getting say that's a bad thing. how did it happen? I'll let Rick explain: (RICK: nobody ever writers don't want to take a chance. and this started happening in the early 2000s started to go down in the music industry, write with artists, 'cause they didn't feel and that's all true. or, rather, this isn't something I've researched and it's an area Rick has a lot of personal to take his word for it. but also, while Rick is probably right that major labels just don't matter as much as the last few decades have seen incredible of music technology, for both production and it's easier than it's ever been to make a and release it to the entire world, for free, that's how Lil Nas X made Old Town Road: he's just published the song himself on Tiktok, new, innovative artists don't need a major anymore, so many of them are just bypassing acts like St. Vincent, clipping., 100 Gecs, or work with smaller, independent labels that and they've managed to leverage that distribution heck, Bad Bunny has more monthly listeners and his record label doesn't even have a wikipedia the tops of the charts, for the most part, for a long time, but with the rise of the segmented. that's part of why the money dried up for we live in a golden age of music accessibility, 10 lists, you're missing out on all sorts the surface. but even if we do restrict ourselves to just like, consider the 2016 album Lemonade. it's a sprawling concept album with songs studios, with dozens of collaborators. it had a budget of well over a million dollars, and they even made an hour-long film to go by any reasonable estimation, it was a huge it, because, well, it's Beyonce. they knew they could count on her to sell and the end result was probably one of the seriously, if you haven't listened to Lemonade, this has pretty much always been a thing: Please Please Me, they're not that different in the early 60s. by the time they were working could make literally anything and people would doesn't just work for established artists, Nas X, who have a huge breakout performance in a strong position to continue doing their so yes, major labels do pressure artists to they always have, and yeah, that sucks. but that doesn't mean exciting new artists heard. so why do I care? why make this video when I know it's just I really, really don't want? well, over the years, music theory YouTubers, criticizing traditional music academia. and we need to be having, and the public deserves but if we're gonna throw stones, we need to if we want scholarly respect, we need to hold if we present ourselves as experts, we have and when we fail to do that, we have to hold that's what scholars do. so I'm not saying Rick Beato is a bad or lazy lazy video that went viral by reinforcing not like the Jonas Brothers, but to imply a deep lack of familiarity with the actual I mentioned that modern music loves experimenting it can be really hard to figure out where sort of thing that Skillshare is great at. they've got all sorts of awesome classes about and mastering. one of my favorites is called Inside The Studio, you through his process of developing tracks music. it's like a guided tour of how a producer the things you need to consider in order to and that's just one of thousands of classes instrument skills, and non-musical stuff like trying it: the first 1000 12tone viewers to a free month of Skillshare Premium, so you and hey, thanks for watching, thanks to our and extra special thanks to this video's Featured if you want to help out, and help us pick to our Patreon on screen now. oh, and don't forget to like, share, comment,