So today I'm that doesn't put you on the ground. And As long as I don't destroy it Oh, boy. In there. I'm using Cedar for this build two by fours here, So I'm going to run to the plane and then we'll see what work wind. I kind of have a love hate relationship with Cedar And there are a lot of knots match exactly how I would like it to, I'll pick through these and then we'll start building So the front legs on the Adirondack chair are going to be We're not going to go They just lean them all the way back and you just can hardly get up out of it. And we're going to go with a 15 degree It's a much more flat seat to relax So let's do it. I got the first 15 degree angle on the back leg, And what I want to do is make sure that the length of it is And so I just came up with this little idea and I don't know if it is going So I'm going to do is take this little off cut that came off the end and I'm going to put this up, up and then I'm going And so now this is flush across the top. And now I can just strike a flush line And it should work. So now I've got a 15 degrees the other way and I can just line it up against my mark against my stop block I'll make it two chairs. I didn't say that I want to hit and cut the little top the front and back legs for a little And here is what the little assembly So this is going to fit together or drop and it's cedar. So, you know, it's pretty destroyed now. All right. This is going to go together just like this And yeah, now we just need some joinery. You can do joinery You can use pocket screws, or I'm going to be using some dominoes. Well, look at Mr. Fancy Pants. He drink that green Kool-Aid, didn't you? Yes, Jack. I've got a domino now. Yeah. Imitation and things. Three, All you influencers. No, unfortunately, they did not send this Well, you don't give me that Yeah, I mean, the comment is still good, Well, hot dog, I'm happy. Pig in mud. All right. Yeah. You enjoy that thing. All right, let's do some joinery. All right, Let's do a little dry fit and see how these go together. All right, There we go. Turn down. Perfect. I guess we can do a group now. Groups can be a super stressful. And so to make things a little bit easier, I have a little box of goodies These are offcuts and I've got them marked on the back here. So we've got 15, we've got ten, I'm going to use these to help clamp and then that way So keep it a little thing of offcuts It's making looks a lot easier. You're still gonna have disasters, And I am using an outdoor wood glue I know I was going to take this 15 degree and then that way So this clamp is going to pull this So I'm just going to throw and hold that in place while it dries. So I want to climb up the other three and then let them dry overnight Even though I despise the Adirondack chair I think one thing they do well So nice little place for your buttocks. So I want my chairs to have And I drew this up and sketch up and cut out this little quarter And that's just a nice little curve here. And I'll use this to cut out my two by fours for the seat and get identical sides. If you don't have to move a ladder are you really even in a garage shop? Now know if you know this or not, but I have a major fear of commitment I was kind of worried about the seat So I built this monstrosity. This is a mockup of the seat. I actually cut out some little MDF and then put some legs. So the seat had to be the same. So even got a nice little ergonomic back. I'm going to put the slats on here and see how it feels. This could be a disaster. So she will lay the Oh, boy. I hope that doesn't happen to me All right, This is looking good. This front part is actually what I'm worried about, I'm not sure how I'm going to keep these, All right, This is so janky because I'm too lazy I'm going to sit on it up here. This could be a really bad idea. All right. Oh, my gosh. These front legs are a little wobbly. I'm not even thinking about I'm just thinking about dying. This is nice. The going to be too deep. Hey, actually, I guess we're done. This is Chuck's new Adirondack chair. And this. Get at me. Okay, But I think we need to see how So have my son All right, Up. Up there. I don't know how I feel about this. Oh, no, You should not feel good about it. Was it taped? Don't worry about it. No, it's okay. Just sit down. Just sit down. Gently. Skip. Scooch back. I feel tall. So tall. So the seat feels high on the table. Well, yes, that's true. Seems like a nice seats. Also feels like splinters. Well, we will send it down. A promise. All right. That's our way. I do feel good about this shape. And so now I can transfer it for the seat that the little slats And also, I can just kind of look at this I'll double stick tape this on there And then I'll use a pattern bit to get it I just pry the template off here now continues this and the flesh trim I do need to cut the 15 degree So the template just wasn't for the piece that I had, Then we could put this together. And while I'm finishing those parts, let's hear about today's So it's summertime. We like to hang out around the campfire, but also we like to go on adventures And we just got done with a ziplining experience On Viator a My tour is the world's largest They have over 300,000 options You can look for things locally like we did, or you can plan a weekend And we've done And my kids don't really love So we wanted something fun and outdoors. So I started going through the outdoor and it made it easy to see detailed descriptions And zip lining was perfect for our teenage Viator from simple tours and everything in between with lots of fun And they've got free cancellation So they give you a ton of flexibility. So if you're looking for an adventure, or you can download their app And thanks to Via Tor I'm going to see bases already right here to go on top of them. But I don't want to just because I'm going to have to finish them and these slots are going with only about an eighth And so it'll be really hard Even if I were spraying, So before I do want to put the counter sock holes in there and I have a little drill and a little jig I made so I can just put it on there and drill because you want to make sure Of course, which is a pretty knotty wood. It's always doing bad things. It's got to fill these knots with glue. So it just helps that finish stand up over time and water up in there Since this is outdoor furniture, I'm going to use some portable gleam 2.0 and for the first coat And then for the rest of them It will have about three coats total so I can keep working on other things I'm going to sit with the chair just like I did the mock ups tool So that'll keep everything nice and stable And I did clamp down I'm going to reference the front of the seat bases on those it could make that front me off So the base coat is and then I'm actually going to spray on the final coats I've got the 13 slats here and pre drill it and then screw it in And I have these little eight inch spacers each little rung. I may not do it in the front because they kind of open up, And then that will add water drain if it does get wet and it Oh my gosh, that's the one who dropped it. All right. Oh, that's looking good. Oh, yeah, that looks nice. And next up, I'm going to make the armrest, and cut it out on the side and see again. And I have a little template here, because it will be a place to put a drink, I don't eat Mountain Dew, And I traced the outline I'm going to cut that out on the mantle. Then I would come back and trim All right, I'm going to switch over And I haven't told you something, that I've been using today, We have partnered with Whiteside They make amazing router bits. So this is a fixes bill so you won't find this anywhere else this project is like a great premium So we've got the pattern bit an eight inch round over a chamfer So we're doing a limited run to see But right now there's only 100. There's a link down If you've been looking for some great The last piece is the shape out of the back and there's going to be a quarter Now I want to have because I do like that and I have a straight edge down here, and line everything Well, with the I'm just going to sand to the edge And because it is symmetrical, and then just flip it up to that line I start from I've got the legs here, to clip a little scrap here to the side, and then allow that to rest on top, from the inside All right. I'm going to take these off I've got the back laid out here And the way and assemble across the bottom and this will actually fit down And then on the top, we'll have And after this, that I'm going to put across the back to get that good support All right. Let's see how we did spacers out, no screws poking through. So that's a win. All right, let's get this in the chair. I haven't exactly played out but let me start by Okay? Now I need to figure out how to get 15 degrees. Oh, my gosh. Don't just fall through, please, All right? I got my little angle finder, which is usually used for the table saw. But this. It'll work here, too. All right, so we can get busy right about there. Oh, okay. All right. This is work, all right? Everything is held into place, and I'm going to drill a couple of holes and secure it from each side, so I can later plug those with some cedar Now, I can use this last cleat on the back up to the top of the armrest. So I'll get as much support on that back attaching it through the side Now to attach the dinner platters or excuse me, We'll have these right up here in there and put your dent in your project Makes it easier. Anyway, we're going to go right here to have some support I made these little corbels and send them on the sander So of counter six and I'll screw straight up into it and we should be in nicely supported Now this is one Adirondack height is perfect for calisthenics We've got these nice big armrest to put your cold drink and just enjoy your summer. You want I've got a playlist cued up for you if you want to build this chair. Check them out in the description. A big shout out to the FTB Builders Club. I'm Brad. Until next time,