Vanessa: from SpeakEnglishWithVanessa.com. Are you ready to What do you do? Where do you want to Could you answer these questions in English? speaking with me about seven of the most common vocabulary, questions, sample conversation, conversation practice conversation with me too. Me lessons, and today I have combined them all in for the next two hours. To help you never forget free PDF worksheet using all of the vocabulary, challenge questions so that you can never forget PDF worksheet with the link in the description. We are going to be talking about Let's get started with the Are you ready to learn the question of all time? At least according to Is that question, will you give me money? No. Is most important conversation question is, there's When someone asks you about your weekend hiking.&quot; &quot;I'm not doing much.&quot; There might be an Well, this is where the most important question &quot;How about you?&quot; You can imagine The other person has asked you a question. &quot;What ball. Now you reply and you say, &quot;Okay, I'm You need to throw or toss the ball back that. How about you? It means you are &quot;What are you doing this weekend? How about you?&quot; either of them, actually, they have What about you? Remember these questions because lesson, during our conversation, speaking All right, let's go to some common vocabulary Brunch. Many Americans love brunch. The word and that's because we usually eat this on the morning, between 10:00 AM and 2:00 PM. It's a and it's usually a long social event. You have your friends to your house to eat brunch. brunch spot on Sunday.&quot; Great. breakfast type foods usually with some alcoholic in it. Or maybe some champagne in the morning and Another common weekend word is social butterfly. lot of plans. They are flying around to They're always doing things, usually involving If you are a social butterfly, probably the year probably really difficult for you because you always be active. We can use this in a sentence she has invitations to three brunches and are not a social butterfly? What if you are No. It means you are a homebody. Your body likes Someone who enjoys just doing things slowly and a comfortable place at home. You could say, more of a homebody. When I get together with and then play games here.&quot; I think this is true I prefer these kind of intimate group I prefer just a couple friends at home. Maybe some marshmallows and this intimate setting. than when I was a little bit younger. To stay in. weekend plans for the past year, and it means that you're going to do nothing. It just means you're You might say, &quot;It's supposed to be cold and in and read a book.&quot; Or, &quot;I'm just going to To binge watch. This means that you watch to back without stopping. Several hours, maybe This is binge watching. You are watching a lot. with alcohol, to binge drink. This means that very healthy thing to do, but when we say to binge a lot back to back, or you could binge watch TV. binge watched all of the Star Wars movies.&quot; you do not have time to binge watch TV, &quot;I binge watched that new TV show that just came talk about your weekend plans is to catch up on is a beautiful phrasal verb that you can use haven't done for a while and now there's more and We can imagine laundry, dishes, sweeping, tidying up, maybe even yard work. If you don't do many you have to do. That means you need to catch You need to catch up on some chores and chores are dishes, these necessary activities that your home a wonderful place to live. Maybe this You might say, &quot;I was so busy all week, and this weekend.&quot; Maybe not very fun, but All right, now that we have some common vocabulary Let's talk about some introduction questions that people. These have varying levels of reductions to help you understand and recognize what other Let's talk about our first question. What are weekend? You might know the expression, what's same word up to talk about what are you doing But do you think that we usually say it So clear. So lovely. No. Instead we're going to it a lot more. Let's talk about the first What're. Here, the word, what and are, are write, we don't write this type of contraction. verbs like are, is, will be contracted with a What're, what're you up to? We can reduce this a Whatcha'p to this weekend? at the beginning. Whatch, whatcha'p to? Here whatch, the ch is you and what are has just to? Whatcha'p to? Whatcha'p to? Whatcha'p to? whatcha'p to? It sounds really weird. so if you are going to say this, it needs to Most likely you're going to hear this, so I want says, &quot;Hey, whatcha'p to this weekend?&quot; &quot;Vanessa taught me that. I know what that Let's go into our next expression where we're to understand it. What have you got going on weekend? These all mean the same thing. What this expression with the word got. What have hear this, we don't say it that clearly. Wouldn't that be nice though? Instead, contraction of the first two words, just what've, so what and have, are going to be That final G in the word going is going to be say that altogether. You want to try to say it got goin' on this weekend? What've Do you think we can reduce this further? Yes. Here, the beginning of, what have you got is stirred it up and threw it out on a cookie it's not quite so messy and complicated. At But it sounds like whada. Whada, this is what again, we're going to drop that Goin' on. Whadayagot goin' on? Whada. Notice do you hear a clear T? No. That T at the end of the word, what, is going American English, where a T that's surrounded it's called a flapped T, and it just Whadayagot goin' on? Can you say it with me? on this weekend? All right, let's go to our last You doing anything fun this weekend? What's Should there be another word? Yes. Are you doing are, it's on vacation. It's just gone somewhere, word you. You doing anything fun this weekend? and less like an interrogation, or like just a casual question. You doing anything fun We're not going to reduce it an awful lot, When we say, &quot;You doing anything fun?&quot; doin', ya. The word you is reduced to ya. Ya it's gone. It's also on vacation. Maybe it's on anything fun this weekend?&quot; Ya that's going to happen in this question? Ya Try to say that with me. Ya doin' anything fun All right, let's go on to some other common things easy casual conversations. If someone tells interesting or fun, how can you reply? &quot;How interesting.&quot; Or just simply, &quot;Nice.&quot; If that home, maybe they're going to binge watch some still say some being positive in response, so you And that's true, especially if you've been and relax for the weekend. So you might Right, before we practice our sample conversation Well, if you're talking about weekend plans, it &quot;Have a good weekend.&quot; Or, &quot;Enjoy your weekend.&quot; All right, let's take a deep breath. Are What I would like you to do is first, I would Think about the different parts that our key beautiful question. What about you? How key vocabulary that we talked about, and also just what are you got going on this weekend? Great. then I'm going to put some pauses and it's going First, let's watch the conversation sample. &quot;Nothing much. I'm just going to stay in But on Sunday, I'm going to meet up &quot;That sounds fun. Where's &quot;I usually go to Sunny Morning Cafe. What about &quot;I'm a homebody, so I'll probably &quot;That sounds nice. Well, have a &quot;Thanks. You too. Have good weekend.&quot; the next level? I'm going to be asking would like you to reply in that pause. Take You can do it. Let's go. Hey, How interesting? How often do you do that? Me? I'll probably go hiking since Well, nice talking to you. Have a good weekend. back and practice that little sample conversation. That's part of learning English, is I want Let's start with some common questions for talking pandemic began, a lot of restaurants have changed cover eating in a restaurant, but also ordering any situation that you're in. Let's start with phrasal verb to eat out means at a restaurant? restaurant? Do you want to eat at a restaurant? We often reduce this question to sound a little more you, you want to eat out? Ya wanna eat out? We've ya and then we have reduced want to, to become Can you say question with me? Ya wanna eat out? word, ya, completely and just say, wanna eat out? might ask, where do you want to go? Where do you like this? Unfortunately, not. Instead, you could This is a similar reduction to our first question. ya wanna go? Where ya wanna go? Where ya wanna go? I want to let you know that in the US this idea that you're not eating in the get the food and you take it somewhere else. Maybe We could use a couple different phrases and I say, pick up. Do you want to order pick up? Do should we order take out? Should we order A lot of different phrases and you are so it's just your choice what you'd like to use. like to eat is, what are you in the mood for? sometimes in your heart you're just in the mood rich and reminds you of a cozy, warm time in but you're in the mood for comfort food, or You want a salad or sushi, something light. you want to eat? But we often reduce what are you in the mood for? We might say, is what are you... Whatcha in the mood cha. Cha, this is extremely common in spoken a lot of ways. We already talked about one of in the mood for? Whatcha in the mood for? in the mood for? Wha'ya in the mood for? This is What are you in the mood for? The word R is gone we link together, what and you, super fast. You don't want to say this reduction slowly. that to practice for this lesson, but when fast. That's the purpose of a reduction. really fast? Wha'ya in the mood for? Wha'ya Great. All right. Let's talk about some common prepared and ready. When someone asks you, &quot;Wha'ya How about...&quot; Some option. How about pizza? Let's bringing the food back to your house. You restaurant, or maybe you don't feel comfortable How about pizza?&quot; This expression, how This is excellent in professional situations. Or, it's great for informal situations to give &quot;How about pizza? What do you think about that?&quot; like this. How 'bout pizza? How 'bout pizza? just missing. We say, &quot;How 'bout pizza?&quot; Can 'bout pizza? How 'bout pizza? Great. Or you could You're giving your opinion. You'd like to eat person wants, so you use a great question. Does Let's take a look at the first reduction. You &quot;I'm feelin' tacos. How'zat sound?&quot; How'zat sound? how'zat sound? How'zat sound? Can you say that I'm feelin' tacos. How'zat sound? switch it up a little bit. I'm feelin' that's what I want, but I want to know your zat sound okay? Does that becomes zat. Zat sound I'm feelin' tacos. Zat sound okay? Great question. last year, and you never know when a restaurant &quot;Is Ted's Cafe open? I would love to go there.&quot; there. There is a little way that we can Is Ted's Cafe open? I would love to go there. The &quot;Is Ted's Cafe open? I'd love to go there.&quot; I'd love to go there. Great. In the US, seating. You could say, &quot;Let's go to Louis'...&quot; eat lunch on their patio.&quot; Eat lunch on It's really nice when restaurants have this, at home, but especially with kids, if you don't or maybe you don't feel comfortable doing that. If feeling. And it's a nice spur of the moment thing let's grab a bite at Louis'. Let's grab a a quick meal. It might be lunch. Usually but it might just be a short experience. not a big to do. Let's grab a bite at Vanessa: Let's grab a bite at Ted's Cafe because I have to else. Can you say that with me? Let's grab a bite to the question what you want to eat is I know I know a place that has great pizza. I know a I know a place. Come with me. But if you want to oh, I know a place that has great pasta. Come with maybe an unknown restaurant location that not many Oh, I know a place that you're going to love. I would like you to watch this sample conversation want to eat, what we want to eat. Think about And then after that, you're going to have a Let's watch the sample conversation. Dan: bite before my soccer game. What sounds good? Hmm. How about pasta? That sounds great. How about I call it in, you my game starts. That sounds great. I know a place that's close Now it's your turn. I want you to use I'm going to ask you a question. We're going It's your chance to speak out loud. So wait for your answer. No matter where you are So please take this opportunity to speak and this section again and again, do that. It's Are you ready? Hey, I'm hungry. Let's Oh, that sounds good. Do you know a good place? Oh, that sounds good. You want to eat there or get you feel a little more confident discussing dining In this lesson, we're going to talk about some common responses, and then you'll have a I know that vacation this year looks a little bit virus that we have going around. So it's usual talking about vacation. Let's first talk those naturally in English. Do you have plans to fine. You could use this full question. Do Okay. But there are a couple different ways to that are a little bit more natural. which is you, going', dropping the G. Where you Or we could say what you got going on this summer? got going on? Again, we're dropping the G, going on. What's going on? If you go into a this phrasal verb and say, what is goin' on here? what do you have going on this summer? Or it simply means what are your plans this summer? asks you this, you know that they're asking about summer? Another common question is, are you doing it as clearly as this, unfortunately, right? Are doing anything fun for vacation? Look at what's Y'. What happened to the verb are? Are you doing? So we're going to start this question with just reduce the word you in a lot of ways? Whatcha that G again. Y'doin'nything fun? Something anything. Y'doin'nything fun? we're going to drop the G. It ends with the sound, we sometimes drop the a and we're going to push side by side. Y'doin'nything, doing'nything fun? English sounds quite fast to English learners. If did they just say? I have no idea. Well, it's common in spoken English. So you can say this fun for vacation? Y'doin'nything fun for vacation? headed for vacation? Where are you headed for just said it, but it uses a wonderful verb headed. the direction that you're going. Some place that your mom and she says, where are you going? You that's the direction that you're going. You are a little bit and say, where ya, does that sound ya headed for vacation? We could substitute where are you headed this summer? Where ya headed notice that a great way to sound a little bit We've talked about a couple different reductions, summer? Where ya headed for vacation? Great. you can use to answer these questions, let's important conversation question you will ever know this in the part one video I made, speak with questions are essential. If you don't remember what about you? How about you? We use these, conversation ball. And when I ask you, how is your turn to answer the same question. So if And I say, eh, not really anywhere. I'm staying to you. This is a great way to continue a locked inside your memory, because we're going to where you're going to use these conversation, me. All right, let's go to some common answers world that we're living in this year. Because a world, but we probably needed to change our plans answers to these questions about where you headed Let's talk about some realistic answers. I'll take a road trip around the US instead. like to, but. So first we're talking about your what you're really doing. I'd like to go to the US instead. Or you could say, I'd like to go Okay. The ideal is going to the family reunion, but the reality is that you had to postpone the reality. I wish that I could go on a so I guess I'll order a pizza and go to the pool. you can make that reality special for you. but it's not your dream, your ideal dream. but cruises aren't happening right now. I wish I wish that I could go to a music festival, make a playlist and listen to music and dance this is what I'll do instead. All right, let's family to New York, but I think we'll go camping talks about a plan that you had, usually a It's a plan that you had and then you needed to York, but I think we'll go camping instead. but unfortunately that's not the reality. but I guess I'll stay home and learn how to cook about, and last year, is all about trying to make not too disappointing. I was going to cook some Italian dishes instead. Okay. don't forget our key question. How about Let's take a look at a sample conversation so that your turn. Let's take a look at this sample. Hey, you doing anything fun this summer? Well, I was going to go backpacking around Europe, local state parks. What about you? Well, I was going to meet my family but that got canceled. So now I think I'm going to my backyard. Do you want to come? Sure. That sounds great. Text me Dan: Enjoy your camping trip. Thanks. I will. See you at the movie night. Okay. Now it's your turn. Put together all of these than I'm going to be pausing. I don't care are going to be listening to you. Then I'll opportunity to speak out loud. If you need to go and just gain some more courage, feel free to do Are you ready? Let's do it. Hey, That sounds like fun. Have you done that before? I wish I could take my family on a trip to I think we're just going to go on a road it was nice talking with you. See you later. more comfortable talking about your vacation or our practice section together. It's a great with some common vocabulary to talk about where it's really busy where I live. New York City is Tokyo is a crowded city. There are lots of where you can be alone and have a quiet moment. crowded. What's the opposite of this? You can say place. I don't know. I've been to Stockholm. But you might say, where I live is just a relaxed come visit where I live, it's very relaxing and Let's go on to these two common words to talk yeah, I live in Delhi, India, and it's one of are so many people here. It's busy, it's crowded. It's quite busy. It's crowded. It's an urban But on the other hand, you might say, I live in France, Japan, these places. But in the US, we use sometimes, but we're more likely in the US in nature. Maybe there's some farms around and you don't live in a busy urban city center. do you live in the country or do you live in an difficult to get to? You might say, yeah, my city So for me, my city, Asheville, in North Carolina, a huge city. It doesn't have It's off the beaten path. But if you want to check nice to visit. It's off the beaten path. This also So, if you visit Paris and you go to the the places that are close to the Eiffel Tower Those places are only for tourists. not high quality. It's just to trap tourists. you might go somewhere off the beaten path. This And it's an expression that's great to So when I visit your city, I might ask, are there Are there any restaurants off the What is something off the beaten path that I can popular, but it's becoming more popular. Maybe traveling to different types of destinations. nature places, places that are in the mountains that might mean that where you live is becoming and coming to talk about somewhere that's not So you might say, yeah, my city isn't really place. You've got to check it out. We can use this to talk about a restaurant or a neighborhood. neighborhood, but now it's an up and coming Just look at the houses, look at the architecture, coming place. Excellent expression. Our final see or some must see locations. Can you it's not important to see it? Nah, you can skip when you visit Egypt, the pyramids are a must see. Of course, when you go to Egypt, the Big Ben is a must see. When you go to New York These are kind of like the top things that you those really popular cities, if you live somewhere use this expression. You might say, in my city, that is a must see. You drive up this hill and you it's something that you cannot miss when you visit what are some places that are a must see? I don't common questions that you can ask other people ask you about where you live. So make sure you're The first question is, where are you from? This say, yep, I'm from the US, but it's nice to give Asheville in North Carolina. It's a pretty quiet You're giving some details. It's quiet, but it's inviting a conversation. If you just say, I'm from from, someone might ask you, what's it like there? where they live, they just say France. I live want some more details. You want to continue the What's it like there? What's it like there? it's so hot in the summer, but in the fall, it's got to check it out in the fall. Excellent. If say, what's the weather like there? They can go uh, the winter is so cold. We get tons of snow. leaves become green and the flowers bloom, it's have not told someone what time to visit yet, they Dan and I were planning a trip to go to Costa Rica what is the best time to visit Costa Rica. and we were going to be spending a lot of time going to be raining the whole time, wasn't going So we asked this question, when's the best when's the best time to visit your city? For fall. The leaves are beautiful in the mountains. crisp and fresh. You got to visit in the fall. what would you say? This means, what is your city might just be something simple, like the air is so this type of dessert that's made in my city and Cool. It could be something simple. Or if you live some famous destinations that your city is known they might ask this question, oh, what's And then you can think about some great places to I ask someone about their city, especially if ask about their personal favorite thing to do. So to do in your city? Or what's your favorite thing Because I think that local people's perspectives So finding out what the locals like to can be really valuable and can add to a what's your favorite thing to do in your this little bar off the beaten path down this They brew their own beer and the atmosphere is my trip to your city would be a lot more amazing have some ideas that you can tell other people more broad. Someone might simply ask you, what to someone who lives in New York and you are some questions and say, what do you recommend? recommend that I do? Oh, you got to see this that they have on display and all these different what do you recommend in general? It might not be but to visit the city, what do you recommend? recommend? All right, now that we've talked about some common questions that you can ask or other see a quick sample conversation between me and my Now, neither of us are from Rome, but I want you from Rome. He's actually from the US, but let's some insider tips about what I should do the sample conversation and listen for some of because you are about to have a chance to use it Dan: are you excited for your trip to Rome? Yeah, I can't wait. It's such a historic place. Dan: all the gelato shops except this one. It's off Vanessa: Dan: but my favorite thing to do is wander around and relaxed and less crowded that way. Ah, that's good to know. Thanks for the tip. No problem. Enjoy your trip. I will. All right, now it is your turn. where you live because I'm coming to I'm going to ask you some questions and to you wherever you live around the world. I Use the expressions that you've learned. And Are you ready to get started? Hi, I'm taking Tell me, what's the weather like in the That's good to know. Thank you. Well, what's Wow, that sounds really interesting. So I got to know. Are there any tourist Thanks so much for the tip. I look forward Bye. All right. How did you do having this conversation with me? You're welcome to Vanessa: welcome to review that and say it again and again Let's get started with some common expressions some types of birthday parties, a birthday lots of presents, lots of games, it's a big one. for my niece because she's turning To throw a party. Are you holding No. I mean, maybe you're throwing some confetti, having a party or we're going to plan a party.&quot; &quot;We're throwing a party for my grandma's 90th What if you're not a fan of birthday bashes? might say a gathering or a get together. This is friends maybe. You could say, &quot;I'm not a fan of a little gathering at my house, or we're just This is true for me. Usually for my birth at my house with a couple friends, maybe what did I just do? I surprised you, because it's the person who is having the birthday doesn't So someone is planning, inviting guests, the birthday person to come into that area and then everybody jumps up and says, &quot;Surprise.&quot; you? Have you ever helped to participate in a have, but one time when I was in college, my and another friend who has the same birthday. And a test. I can't go down there. I'm not going to go And then one of my friends finally realized that it's a surprise birthday for you. Come on.&quot; So I &quot;Oh, they're doing something nice for me.&quot; So you It's a surprise party. Don't tell her.&quot; Next, let's talk about some common phrases The first one is RSVP. Now, this is occasionally but it is more common on a written invitation. an internet invitation using Facebook But RSVP stands for the French Repondez s'il Please tell me if you're coming.&quot; So usually you by Saturday, whatever date. So there's a so that I can order the right amount of cake so is just a polite thing to do to RSVP. Wonderful. is BYOB. What if I said, &quot;Dinner and cake are your old bag. Bring your old balloon. No. your own booze.&quot; Booze is a slang term for alcohol. If you want to drink alcohol, bring This is very common and it's not really rude. allowed to drink alcohol at your house and you're &quot;I don't have any. Bring your own. BYOB.&quot; This an invitation. You might see that written, Make a wish. Usually after we sing happy birthday, and you make a wish. There's a superstition that true. So usually it's a surprise. I will never it probably won't come true then. So this &quot;After I blow out the candles, I'm going to make So after they sing happy birthday and you blow make a wish.&quot; And they're telling you, &quot;This is at children's parties more often that someone &quot;This is the time to make a wish, close your this is a fun little tradition, I would say. in my opinion, usually junk that is given to I'm not a big fan of goody bags because it's stuff that comes from the dollar store out a goody bag at their child's birthday party. So for me, I would rather do a craft at the or maybe there's an extra cupcake and the children better to me. I think that the idea of a goody still a little pressure to give something to your to give something to your guests. your daughter is already old enough to have her 16 years old. For some reason, 16 is a is when you can get your driver's license I hate to say it, but usually teenage boys who Maybe that was just my experience when I girl might have sweet 16 party. And this is a next big birthday is turning 21. And this is for because you can finally legally drink alcohol. party with their friends where they get or they go to a brewery or a restaurant and they that nobody drinks alcohol before 21, but &quot;Now, I am an adult.&quot; There you go. for your next birthday. If I said, &quot;I don't feel What do you think over the hill means? Well, now it's a little bit more than 80 years old, but bit dark, a little bit depressing, but we say that And anytime after 40, if you don't want to &quot;I'm over the hill or I'm way over the And now you're just going down the other side. store and you buy any kind of balloons or birthday they all are black or gray or have to do with like because obviously when you're 40, you're still &quot;Oh, you're over the hill.&quot; to some common birthday questions is a trip around you are one year older. So if somebody is having another successful trip around the sun. They have which is one more year. Congrats on a All right, let's go on to some common questions could ask someone else on their birthday. And Any plans for your birthday? This is an extremely for your birthday, you could say, &quot;Yup, we're to be exciting,&quot; or, &quot;No. We're just going to Excellent. Any plans for your birthday? This is a great question to ask if you know that If you are a family member or a close friend who you can use this question, &quot;What do you want what should I plan for your birthday?&quot; a small get together at the house. Maybe we can get together.&quot; A little bird told me it was your little bird told me&quot; is almost a universal idea. hearing something from a little bird. saying, &quot;A little bird told me that it was your Do you have this type of expression in your native You could just say, &quot;A little What would you like?&quot; You're asking for a present And an answer to that could be, &quot;Yup, but instead of a present, I'm asking that Okay, you don't need presents. You don't need food and drinks to your party. Simple and it's How old will you be? Or maybe if it's on someone's adult this. I would say after the age of 21, old are you or how old will you be? In American age when they're an adult. For a child, it's no Usually they're very specific like, &quot;I'm seven very specific about their age, because they're so a little bit more hesitant to share our age, social circumstances to say your age. now? Or how old will you be?&quot; Only to children. &quot;Is it a surprise party?&quot; That way you can So maybe they forgot to tell you, &quot;Oh, it's a &quot;Is this a surprise party?&quot; And they might say, &quot;Oh yes it is. Don't tell him.&quot; It's a great need me to bring anything? Can I bring anything?&quot; go to someone's house for dinner, for a meal, a birthday party or a holiday gathering, it's Or what can I bring?&quot; I ask this all the time and because maybe it would be nice if someone else meal, or maybe even someone just brought a game or of the person who is throwing the party or just question to ask. I highly recommend it. &quot;Can I bring anything?&quot; You can think, or yeah do you have a favorite board game? Maybe or could you make a salad? Could you make bring one? You can buy it that's okay.&quot; But this like they're participating in the evening. common expressions for birthdays, some common conversation. I'd like you to see this sample about birthdays. You're going to recognize a lot birthdays. Listen to this conversation carefully will be asking you those questions and it will sample conversation. Hey, Dan. Hey Vanessa, you have a Vanessa: Dan: Vanessa: birthday bash. I would love for you Dan: Vanessa: favorite party game and a big appetite for cake. Dan: Vanessa: Okay. You watched the sample take a deep breath and practice this yourself. will pause. I will be listening to you no I will be listening and we will be having this if you want to try it again, the good news is and practice it again. No problem. Hey, a little bird told me that your That sounds like fun. Is it a birthday Cool. I would love to come. Can I bring anything? Great. I'll be there. I can't wait to So how did you do with this I hope that it was a good challenge for speaking in English. That is the goal. Let's learn some common vocabulary about animals describe yourself? I'm an animal lover. This means &quot;Ever since I first visited a zoo as a child, animals.&quot; Or if you would like to be a little more a dog person.&quot; Usually we keep it to cats and Does that mean that you have a cat head? I am a preferred pet. You like cats. So for me, if you've you know I am a cat person. I've never had a I get along better with cats and But maybe for you, you might say, &quot;I'm a dog have this unfortunate situation, you are allergic cat fur, I love them. They're so cute and cuddly. If your eyes start to get red and your nose starts sign. It means that you are allergic to some kind and you'll be fine. But sometimes it's a bigger You can't have a dog. I hope you're not allergic. first of all, something that I've noticed other languages is that when we're talking he or she. We don't use it very often because it's a wild animal, or you don't really care So for example, if I'm going to tell you I might say, &quot;She is a Siamese cat.&quot; it's okay and you will hear this occasionally, a Siamese. She likes to play with cat toys. He is a he or a she like if you see a neighbor's their dog, you can just say he and it's okay. &quot;Oh yes, she's a poodle.&quot; And then you you can use her when you find out, but A common word we use to describe pets is breed. kind, what kind is it? So when we're talking So I already mentioned, my cat is a Siamese cat. What breed is your a cat? He's a Siamese. use the question, &quot;What kind is it?&quot; Which we'll Another common term used with pets is a rescue. rescues. I got them from an animal shelter. This is making pure bred cats. No, I went to the animal I went to the animal shelter and I adopted. We They are rescue cats or they are rescues. Sometimes in the US, you see a bumper &quot;My dog rescued me.&quot; Have you ever felt like this? but really your dog changed your life. mut. Mut can be a little negative if you say it you're not certain what kind of dog you have. it's a mix of so many different types of dogs that animal shelter, but you know what? He's the best So it's that idea that he's not pure. He's not of dogs, but you know what? It's still a great soft. After I give my dog a bath, he has a just talking about his fur. And these words are coat. It's great words to talk about animal hair. about how friendly an animal is. The first one hear this as someone is walking their dog. the owner might say, &quot;Oh, don't worry. And your child can pet the dog or you might ask, So it's a great word to use to talk about he's friendly. &quot;He's not very friendly with There are three words that are variations of friendly towards people. I do not recommend The next level is stray. We might say, &quot;That means that he lives on the streets and maybe He might not really hurt you, but he doesn't want he'll want to live in your house, but he doesn't Some cities around the world have a lot of stray but everyone helps to take care of them. Everyone common. We don't have a lot of stray cats or a a big part of American culture. A lot of people shelter instead of buying a pure bred dog or a cats who live on the street will be taken So you might say, &quot;My cat was a stray before we And now he's just so friendly.&quot; The next a cat or dog or animal that was previously So we could use this for a lot of different A long time ago, they were completely wild but they have become domesticated. Over comfortable with humans. They are domesticated. horses, cows, chickens, sheep, goats they are be domesticated like a zebra. You can't ride a be pretty cool, but they're just an animal that common questions that you will hear and that you some words that you can use to describe pet care. thing. And it's somewhere that you can keep &quot;I put my ferret.&quot; Some people have a ferret it to the vet, which we'll talk about in just a your animals maybe to transport them somewhere or We have a big kennel for my dog to help him feel there and he feels comfortable. And then when the A collar and tag, this goes around your animal's the pet's name, your phone number, maybe well, someone can help you to with the number that's on the tag on their collar. a leash to the collar. Sometimes this is called that professional people will use. A veterinarian a lead, but for daily conversation, we often just dog's leash so that I can take him on a walk.&quot; Vanessa: One time I saw somebody having an iguana on a too, but usually cats don't tolerate that. Have A vet or veterinarian. Usually we shorten this times and that's the doctor for an animal. So the vet.&quot; Or, &quot;What is the best vet to take my it's a situation where we don't use the longest Yes, finally, in English, there is a simple vet. &quot;My cat's vet is just up the streets.&quot; Or, Now I just want to let you know if this is your common question, &quot;What do you do?&quot; Which means this might be slightly confusing if someone a vet can be two different things. It can be a That means who used to be a soldier. They used So that means that you could either be an animal So if someone knows that you work with animals a doctor.&quot; And they ask, &quot;What kind of doctor?&quot; you work with animals, but if someone has no might elongate that a little bit just to be more you might say, &quot;I'm a retired veteran.&quot; Or, &quot;I'm want to be a little more specific. That's What can you do to bond with your animal? You likes to play fetch.&quot; Who would've guessed? Or you could just say this word to your dog. So dog runs after the stick. You could say, &quot;Fetch, you're giving him a command about what he to you. This kind of fun game. This word can be used as a noun, as we've but what is this gently touching your pet? This gently touching your animal. This is a very kind, So if you're walking down the street and someone the dog wants to talk with you. And the owner says &quot;Can I pet him?&quot; Great, that means that you can And it's a nice way to enjoy a dog and Okay, are you ready to go onto some common pets, and also you can ask? Let's do it. straightforward question. You might but now I don't have any pets.&quot; Well, this is I don't have any pets.&quot; You're giving some and now I don't have any pets.&quot; Good answer. what kind is he? We're talking about the breed of see a pure bred dog that's only one kind, only one &quot;He's a Lab mix. We got him at the animal two different or maybe three or four different a mix or he's a Lab mix. And this means Another question is, &quot;What's his name?&quot; Of but I wanted to give you some of the most common male pet names in English. The most common female There are many other pet names for female dogs are some of the most common. In fact, one of my pet names are: Max, Buddy, Teddy, Rocky, and Duke. A question we already talked about is, &quot;Is this if you have a dog, and you're welcome to &quot;Is he friendly?&quot; &quot;Yes, you can pet him.&quot; you had him?&quot; And maybe this is not how old is So you might say, &quot;I got max from the animal you had him?&quot; &quot;I've had him for three years.&quot; mentions that their dog is a specific breed, you get that breed?&quot; Maybe you're just curious about or maybe you are thinking about getting a dog you could say, &quot;What made you decide to for example, a Lab, which is a Labrador Retriever, I heard that Labs are family-friendly dogs. So being good with kids, for being friendly. They're All right, now that we've practiced some common questions about pets, now I'd like to Dan and I, talking about some pets. After to speak with me and tell me about your pets or that will be the big reveal of my nine pets. Hi, Dan, is that your dog? I Dan: not mine. I'm just walking him for a friend. Oh, gotcha. Is he friendly? Can I pet him? Yes, he's friendly. You can pet Vanessa: non-drooling cats. Oh, but good boy, Fluffy. I'm going to walk him at the Vanessa: Okay, now it's your turn. I'm going to be asking and you can speak out loud and try to answer a conversation together. If you feel like it's too That's kind of the bonus thing. Exciting You can pause me and spend some extra time are you ready? Take a deep breath. Let's do it. Interesting? How have you had him? That's so nice. I've been thinking about getting Thanks for your help and nice to meet you. So how did you do? Are you ready to talk I have empowered you to be able to speak more And now drum roll, it's time to meet my nine pets. This isn't a breed, but it just describes his but we got them both from a shelter. So And my other seven pets are chickens. They're Unfortunately, we have to wait until October My husband Dan built their coop. That's the little the run. It's a safe area for them to be outside got them when they were one-day old. Look how cute farm animals, but I can't wait to get some fresh down to the chicken coop in the morning and gather All right, let's get started with some common do with employment. We'll talk about unemployment but I'm taking some night This expression, &quot;My day job,&quot; usually means your It could imply that it's during the day, you can still say my day job. &quot;This is my main Another way to talk about your main job is to My 9:00 to 5:00, this talks about the You might work different hours. You might the afternoon or the evening, but we still use my 9:00 to 5:00. There is a new movement talking how people don't like their 9:00 to 5:00. That and people who are not enjoying their 9:00 to 5:00 ditch your 9:00 to 5:00? Here's how to find your moment. But sometimes in this modern age, 9:00 to care about it. It's my 9:00 to 5:00.&quot; It's somehow not really your passion. &quot;It's my 9:00 to 5:00.&quot; money-making job? You can use a lot of different a side-gig, a hustle, a side-hustle, or you might that you make earrings, but it's not your 9:00 to say, &quot;I do it on the side. I make earrings on making earrings.&quot; This is not your primary job, make some money, but not your primary job. then you have a part-time job. In the US, 40 But a lot of jobs are part-time jobs. So you weekends at a restaurant. I work a part-time job.&quot; you just work less hours, or maybe it's just a you have a part-time job at the same time. that you work less than 40 hours a week on. over the last few years, a lot of people became how you're going to survive, feed your family, Laid off means you didn't personally do something they couldn't pay for you anymore. It's usually a problem within the company. financially, or they change their whole system, anymore, they might lay you off. This is a great happen to you, but it's a great phrasal verb it's not that you were fired. To be fired means you can't work here anymore.&quot; And there was a you got fired. This is different than being fault. And it's not embarrassing to say, &quot;Man, embarrassing. That's fine. It's not your fault. a little bit of embarrassment to talk about We can also say, &quot;I lost my job.&quot; This is It might be because you did something wrong. &quot;I job.&quot; This means you were fired, but you didn't you were just laid off. &quot;During the pandemic, I do anything wrong. There were just problems with So you lost your job. So this expression, to be used if you get fired or if you get laid off. Let's imagine that you are a waiter &quot;I'm a waiter, but it's just a job. I'm looking common expression to talk about a job that you This is the opposite. If you love your work... able to be your teacher online too. It's a I can touch a lot of people, and also my life as your English teacher is my dream job, but You might say, &quot;It's hard to find a good work/life is often used when you're working so much or maybe a good line between your personal life and your you might say, &quot;I just need to take a break and important. If you've been working a lot, maybe burnout, burnout. This doesn't have to do with figurative flame and love of your job burnout, it means the thing that was your dream you no longer feel passionate about. to a lot of people like me, who create content with a lot of ideas. And sometimes there aren't temporary writer's block and don't come up Well, that might mean I am burnt out. I am burnt out. I'm burnt out on my job. I've been weeks. I'm burnt out. I need a break. I hope that but it's something that's really common if you are Now let's talk about four common phrases for while ago, I made this video, 100 jobs in English. your personal job, or if you would like some you can check out that video and get some four common phrases to talk about what you do. I'm a healthcare worker. I'm a construction am.&quot; But we could also say, &quot;I work in...&quot; plus a I work in business. I work in marketing. So about your specific position, but it's a common &quot;I work in education.&quot; Maybe you're not a curriculum or maybe there's something that's You might just say, &quot;I work in education.&quot; Cool. &quot;I work for Amazon.&quot; &quot;I work for Google.&quot; even if it's just well-known locally, this I work for Samsung.&quot; &quot;I work for Duke Power,&quot; this to somebody who lived in France, they would this is a local business. But if I said that to So it's kind of all about the context here. run your own business? You can use that expression say I run an online education business. Well, that CEO, the boss. I wear all the hats. I run of different situations as long as you are charge of the business. I run a business. of course, we need to talk about some common conversation, because usually these are the why this topic is really important to know about. you say, &quot;Hey, my name's Vanessa. Oh, nice to meet What do you do?&quot; The full expression for this is just say, &quot;What do you do?&quot; And this doesn't mean are you doing right now? This means what's your expressions we talked about earlier and say, &quot;Oh, What do you do? Or what do you do for work? a good conversationalist, they might ask more &quot;What's that like? What's that like?&quot; &quot;What's it like to be a nurse in the hospital I like the doctor I work for, but it's just been I really want to be a photographer for foster what I would love to do. I'd love to get into question what's that like with a lot of juicy So when you ask someone, &quot;What's that don't miss that opportunity. You can pull any animals. Have you ever had any foster animals? Oh, the conversation. This is a great way to get If you're talking with someone who you already but you're not sure, or you haven't talked with &quot;Where are you working these days? Where are but if you haven't seen someone for five years, you're trying to make small talk conversation in their life. So you could ask, &quot;Where are &quot;Oh yeah, actually I'm still working the last five years. I feel really lucky that I And let's say, you're talking with Well, you could ask this question, &quot;How's work family?&quot; Or, &quot;How is your vacation?&quot; This is just &quot;How's work going?' And maybe they'll just say, if they give you more information, they might was my side-gig for a while and then I got hired work/life balance. So I think I'm going to look well, you just had a great conversation there to have more conversation with someone, just All right, now it's time to see a sample or many of these expressions that we just talked little chit chat about our jobs. I hope that questions that we talked about because in it will be your turn to use them and to have a Dan: Vanessa: so I can work from anywhere. It's pretty great. Wow. What's that like? Well, I help students learn English and but I have to be careful to avoid burning out. Oh, that's awesome, but I understand. What about you? Well, unfortunately I just got laid off but I got a job working part time at a hotel. Oh man, that's a bummer. Have you ever worked in want a side-gig, behind the scenes. That'd be great. Tell me more about it. Hmm. I wonder if Dan will get the job in now it is your turn. What I want to tell you is a little conversation, but I recommend going pause the video and answer longer if you would structured, no-pressure conversation in English. Let's imagine we were at a gathering and the host get introduced to each other and then the host So I ask you, &quot;Tell me, what do you do?&quot; And what's that like? Do you enjoy your work? Oh, me? Oh, I run an online English to students around the world. It's really good luck with your work. I'm so glad to How did you do? Did you have a chance to speak back and review that last segment or this to boost your confidence. Because when absolutely encounter this conversation topic. talk about your city or your weekend plans and the free PDF worksheet for today's lesson. There you've learned, make sure you download that English with me. I will see you again next Friday The step is to download the free PDF worksheet for today's lesson and never forget what you have Don't forget to subscribe to my YouTube channel