Hey guys it's Bettie from Baker Bettie.com and welcome back to another video. Now today we are learning how to make recipe that uses yeast which I hear all people. But I'm going to show you just walk through the process step-by-step tender and they're just a little bit Thanksgiving dinner or a Christmas you want some really delicious yeast learning more about working with yeast I fundamentals course on my website which this video. I highly recommend taking the information about working with yeast. But making some classic yeast rolls and our soft dinner rolls we are going to be dough. Now this just means that the yeast and sugar and these things are going to tender. So I'm starting with 6 butter is at room temperature. It is very to be able to easily stir it together in this recipe is going to really help works to inhibit gluten formation which soft and tender. Now I'm adding to my is just going to give our rolls a slight of kosher salt. Now that salt is not only going to help flavor our yeast dough but it is also If we were to make a yeast dough without too active so it's a really important So now I'm just going to take a spoon well combined before we add our next We are going to add two eggs that are at going to add a lot of tenderness and a So I'm going to add those in and mix Our next ingredient is one cup of whole milk just by heating it in the microwave be really careful about the temperature dough. Yeast really likes warm and ten degrees Fahrenheit is a perfect become active. But if you go a little too your yeast. So you want to be really temperatures it's just gonna be a little on the side of your liquid being a I'm just going to go ahead and mix that The last ingredients for our yeast rolls Now almost every yeast recipe you will flour that you want to put into your and depending on where you live and what need more or less in your bread dough. So quantity listed and then you will add your bread dough. So I'm going to start flour here and then we will add some last ingredient is the dried yeast. Now teaspoon of dried yeast and I have two is active dry yeast and the second is rise or instant yeast. Now you can use going to be telling you how you could refrigerator if you do want to prep them choose that option you really do want to rapid rise yeast so that you don't over be making these and baking them same day rise so since I am baking these today rise yeast so that my dough gets going a add the whole package of yeast into our dry you can do this the same way just need to hydrate the yeast like some going to stir all of this together. Now you can see that my dough is pretty going to add just a little bit more because I can always add more later but to knead it it's a little bit easier to Now that all of our ingredients are knead it by hand. Now if you do have a definitely use that but I want to show without any special equipment and way to get a feel for the dough and I you to do it if you've never tried it. So going to lightly flour our work surface out onto the work surface. And now we're going to start kneading is lightly flour the top of it as well kneading your dough you're going to take you and fold it in half and then use the you. continue that process of folding it in you do this you're likely going to need sticking to the counter and if you have the dough as it sticks to the counter up kneading. Now this is a very soft dough adding too much flour at the beginning need it it will become a little more always add more flour but it's hard to much. Now you want to continue this until you get a really soft and elastic You are done kneading your dough when it has a slightly sticky texture when you with your fingers it immediately springs developed a really nice gluten structure rest and rise. So what has happened is it up and we gave it a food source with now it needs some time to start feeding. a fungus and it was asleep in its dry starts feeding it is going to produce Now these two things are going to help dioxide gas is what is going to make our that. So I am going to transfer my dough that I mixed it in and I'm going to it rise. So we want to let this rise you did use the rapid rise yeast this and if you used the active dry yeast hours. Now that's really depending on how liquid was when you added it to your kitchen, your dough is going to rise much kitchen. So you just need to watch it and come back and shape the dough. about an hour to rise and you can see it bubbles in it and that is from the produced from the yeast feeding on the we can go ahead and shape this dough now. by just pressing down on And now we can go ahead and shape our just a very light dusting of flour you dough out. And now we are going to divide make 16 for something like a want a really huge roll when you're just going to eyeball it here and I'm then each half in half and then each rolls. So I have 16 pieces of dough that are going to shape them into rolls. Now I'm pieces that I'm not working with just so And we're gonna start with 1 piece of sort of pull down on the sides of the create a little bit of a seam on the once you have that shaped you want to part of the counter top that doesn't create a C with your hand and cup it and forth until you get a smooth surface tension on the outside of the dough to is really going to help hold those gases to them. So I'll show you that one more pull down all around on the sides bring create a bit of a purse seam and set and use your hand in the shape of a C smooth surface. Just like that. Now I'm four down and giving them a little bit I'm going to shape all of these rolls. cover them with plastic wrap and then have two options for this step of the temperature and then bake them as soon in your refrigerator and let them slowly really slow down yeast and if you do put them rise anywhere making these for something like nice to prep them the night before and I'm going to bake mine same day so I'm temperature and because I used the quick minutes to 1 hour for them to rise and did use the active dry yeast it that ready to go in the oven. So I'm going to them for baking. So my rolls are finished doubled in size and now they are ready brush them with an egg wash which is of water and this is optional but it's nice shiny glistening top when they come pretty but you can just leave them as is. My oven is preheated to 375 degrees Fahrenheit and we're just going to bake just pulled my yeast rolls out of the perfect and they are soft and tender and bit sweet and they are going to go Christmas dinner or really just any meal with. Now I hope this tutorial really approachable for you and if you enjoyed thumbs up I'm always happy to answer any those in the comments section. And if you that subscription button and ring the video. You can also follow me @BakerBettie on Instagram and on Facebook and next week is Thanksgiving so I won't be back the week after with a new recipe I'll see you guys then and have a