HUSHCHI The material was created within with the support of the Laboratory Institut fur die Wissenschaften Those who have been watching our that we had to visit many places: of Ukraine before the war, in During the war, we But Kamianka It feels like we are Kamianka is the embodiment Kamianka We are on the The fiercest battles took during the last The Kamianka village is This is the last populated and the last settlement Next, the Donetsk region And we came because the General Army Staff that the Kamianka village was 100% and there is not a single We are now about a kilometer and we can see houses all demolished. We will are going to and examine And I'll jump ahead that now only 11 people officially Before the war, over 1,000 I can see &quot;Hurricanes&quot; unexploded projectiles There is a shell there is another one sticking out They should sprout like mushrooms And here among projectiles from &quot;Hurricanes&quot; and &quot;Grads&quot;, Here, no one will clean it Here, the entire ground There is absolutely nothing Everything that happens The gasoline truck There is a frige here, probably the buryats [russian soldiers and did not have time Wow, they all run. Do we have How to share Look, and this [cat] alsowants to eat, I have never met anything like there are so many animals, [mew] I did not expect this; there are no people, Dog, how big you are, [mew] A large village: from that there is no one here except for the because we gave There is no one Only burnt equipment. The brain wants to take in to walk through every street, but it is physically or you have to work and to make Another cat comes out. He is even handsome. Wow, how nice it is. What should we do? So please tell me, what should we do Fill the whole car with dogs and How beautiful you are. What to do with you, kitty? OMG, he is He is very sad Tearful moments Hey cat! The [russian] equipment was and then it was hit The difference is that when filming at the when Kyiv Oblast was there were a lot Houses were broken, were doing and we saw that orcs This can be seen from the fact [marked with Z] are soviet By the way, we are here in Kharkiv region I don't know what they but in my and Khmelnytskyi they Such a soviet analogue only this is such And they drew &quot;Z&quot; letters are on and on that one. It has already been everywhere and, and we also &quot;Z&quot;, &quot;V&quot;, &quot;We never &quot;chicken meat That's how found themselve choked on their own blood kicking their heels, which they also painted You can imagine the to make canned food &quot;we never leave The terrible power of propaganda, Even with but now we feed local Cats and dogs, let's eat something. This is a liver pate. Dear friends, This is for you, You haven't learned to open them yet Half of the village is littered White [dog], you you need to share Typical picture Cat, please don't I think it but these friends are preventing and exploring this They climb on all How are you still alive [purring] Tis is the most terrible thing and was not and I did not know we saw how a dog or maybe it was The dog was still alive or half-alive, and it was lying in You feel verybad that you but at the same time you do anything about it and there are hundreds And you won't take them anywhere. Just the harsh reality of war from Good day. We were told that you are one of the I just arrived. And where have you been I was here and after April 2nd There is not a single It's just terrible, every meter Yes. My house is on the far If we were we probably We hid in a small where there was We stayed there: our neighbor, me, And where do Now I live in Izyum, Why did you come To see what See what to do next. Can we rebuild it. Is your village in the lowlands and is it There was a very Our? Ukraine defended They [russians] could not conquer The fighting was here Could you have thought about this in No, I could not imagine It is not felt until the war Where I lived, there was There were only At least I haven't It's very, I imagine. I understand. We are standing I can't imagine what was Now I'm going to my job And I worked at Kharkiv And what Faculty of Geology educational and Students came geologists, geographers... Can I join you? Yes. Let's see what brought to the Brought destruction This [ruined village] They say that the village was also destroyed. What is in the village of Dovgenke, must also have A &quot;Grad&quot; fell here and the It was the There was also a lot Yes. The asphalt Yes, it was the center Have you seen Our eyes popped out Pripyat and Chernobyl comparing the background School, cultural center, church. So that you can imagine what the We were able to recognize the school But I would like to draw your I didn't understand because I didn't see the dome and Only the stairs to the top and the side of This is the entrance The russians made a caponir, right under the church so that God It's just scary how only the dome on the side It would take 2-3 days but even from here, that there is not a single it is a catastrophy. This is all Kharkiv National where there of hydrodynamics Its function was for students It was drilling and There are The fire was wheels exploded, also flew up This is all civilian equipment, No, there was Are you now Now I am But now you can due to the value You see, there are deposits. Here you could rocks that are several Is this exactly what you have Yes. There are geological near Seversky There is almost no such Even the Slate survived. Yes. Here we and here was There are a lot of You have to be See how much ammunition [It seems] our military has not that's why boxes I'm sure these crates What is this Have you seen Hollywood Yes. Now this is the reality Good day to you! Good day! Are you a journalist? And we are Didn't you leave? We came to Is there anything left? We dug up Under the rubble? We found the photos. Because we ran out and what we March 12th. Now, for the first we have come to our We have been acquiring We're built This is my husband, 22 thousand bricks We built it from an empty Repairs were made, everything was done. Tiles, fences... and here came [peace and world sound the You know, looking at my hair stands on end, I can't imagine I can barely hold back I had two cows, they were killed Here, this is all the car, the photos and the cat A cat was our cat Timoha! You haven't been Half a year, And he was near the house? Can you show how he looks after This is just Dogs and cats are very - Vitya, show Timoha. Here, our cat was He looks good after six Apparently, he was catching mice. He is clean And I wouldn't say Predator. Yes. When we left, we took He was also the first Our Timokha It's okay, you'll calm down we'll heal We will spend and tomorrow and spend the Because here you And we plan God bless everything Of course, we will only and we will My husband is and all these six months that we will return, we will rebuild and I cry all the time, and he says &quot;enough, everything will be fine.&quot; Were all your relatives Everyonewas here. No one was hurt or killed? According to about 30 local I just saw that it was a Yes. We were just near on the parallel and there is such [Sound of explosion] These are Are they clearing [the area]? We were walking along and we saw that Did the russians flee Did they manage Our friends say that they [russian] even forgetting about They wake up, and there are already They got drunk and went from house He was in formation, and the Ukrainian Armed Forces Before the war, we had 70% After the first shelling hits in Izyum, Putin claimed denazification but actually de-russification Yes Yes. Now there may be 5% left in Izyum, Unfortunately, there But not 70%. This is the yard of Here was The first one to die was He went to the farm and It killed the cattle And only when they took out Even not biried. Only now they to Kharkiv That is, how many months For six months, the bodies This is our They pulled it out of the The russians placed artillery [The russians] dismantled painted a &quot;Z&quot; on it. The remains of ammunition lie the entire roadside is shell casings, torn pieces Here, you could see there was boxes for &quot;Grads&quot;. Then someone ran or a tracked vehicle, And here, which is absurd, people on the track. And there are anti-infantryl Maybe it is This is what a village [meows] This is the truck of or a businessman. The orcs, living here, stole the and took it to russia. And this is one that can be found There were boxes maybe they are full. The entire village into a large There are boxes Boxes, boxes... There are hundreds and all of them are You could imagine the number If even large shells have [meows] Another yard, which was turned because there are among the ruins and I have not seen By the way, in the village, demining is military vehicles drive minesweepers work, but there are such a big that it's not possible to [demine] This is the most dangerous there are leaf landmines, Here is the second and the whole roadside is These are small but they are very They cut off legs and Horror! It was our small, but we were Oh, stork? Look! How beautiful, stork. So, everything Look, it is written: &quot;Z lives here...&quot; &quot;Z&quot;, &quot;USSR&quot;, heart. Barbarians! Look, it's our well, under the blue roof, It is a water stream, and the water I was dreaming of drinking Today I collected two 6-liter I drank some water. It cannot be when you were born Are you both local, Yes Yes. Not only us, but also We were we went to school. Here is our hous is You see, the This is our house. This is what the m*skals did to us. Film it. We arrived and this What were God knows only. For what? Professionally Look what they did. You understand.. You can see from the And that's There must have been Yes, there was And then they scattered They are canned food, We opened this because &quot;Liver pate There is a lot of lying around here. &quot;Second Army What is this? A set of crackers. [laughs] This is what Don't drop it please. See if they [russians] hand full bags, on &quot;We are with peace.&quot; See what's This is the basement and everything everything is horns from guns, gunpowder that This is from the house This is a and here is probably an Also a lot of casings Here, our things are They lived here. This is our freezer. There was a direct It was lying I picked it Here is their food, How many body It was said that into plate carriers Look what mess Look. I found the In this pile we found &quot;We are from Elets&quot; [Elets is a town in russia] This is our past, Look. Is it an Yes. My husband's grandma It is linen. I understand that it was By the way, that's shows [talks about Ukrainians A tank fired Couple our fellow that a tank shot The hits were from where the russian Look what they did. It all collapsed It was a bathroom. There were stairs There was a and here was of the eldest Here we had a wall Everything collapsed. There were stairs to Oh, we tried to live to have everything. How many holidays and godparents We had a piano here, We had and played Here's &quot;Happy Birthday&quot;. We congratulated when she was All the life trampled underfoot with Here, &quot;army of russia&quot;. What struck me: because, they [russians] I ask my husband, It turns out to of the Ukrainian The [Ukrainian] military ate it and put And so it Do you understand? Here is the A small detail but representative one It was destroyed Our whole street. On March 20th, our everything If I live until spring, You will make pies the same as I'll bake you a We haven't seen each See you. Yes, it is necessary what the &quot;liberators&quot; [cursing] Here are two creeks and the russians were There was a heavy I don't know whose tank &quot;Z&quot; is written. So muscovites. This is KshM, the car where the battery commander It is called KShM Well, [the commander] i he is lying in Glory to the Armed And better To be eaten by dogs. This technique is from about They began to break They broke through Now the weeds In the spring, everything It is very difficult. Such a Horde attacked. It is very difficult These battles took place and everything grew here with grass And the tanks are in the grass, are in the forest, There are dozens of tanks and various There is both russian It is similar to the during the Second which was one of the so this battle will probably Another tank tower it was stuck There are dozens That was the hit! The nearest tank, And here is its tank rink flying Collection of russian KamAZs trucks, 10, 11, now12 to the naked eye, Further on, you can see from lined shells, which the russians when they were retreating Thousands of projectiles and all the that we talked about, this is a gap it was completely wiped similarly to the By the way, there is now between the units of the they consider such broken and share it It's such a good The guys one in front of the other, who will remove the machine if the tank is They strengthen their military Sometimes some Ukrainian because they find so It's not a joke anymore, Here, in fact, are the results these tank battles A large part of the equipment some of it is standing and here, several dozen rusty burned. This will be the who would come And this is what the guys And our guys who is standing Let's approach the russian which ran into a mine and was and everything and today our taking it apart That is, for spare parts that may be The boys say that there The guys got a lot of We saw a lot of soap and &quot;we don't leave our people&quot; Here is from this KSHM: &quot;Peace to you.&quot; Apparently, it was drawn &quot;This is from Alina And this is the they come to to occupy another land &quot;Peace to all of you.&quot; What if you arrived in tanks on This is exactly the The vehicle hit the mine the commander Probably he died. Maybe the 300th [wounded], One disassembled another one is Are there their canned goods? Have you ever tried their canned goods? We even try not Bad quality? No, but they could [army of russia] You can see how the russians lived, There is a large box And that box bowls, whatever... they They hid it, but Show your so that our how the This is what the hands of And that's just Here the uniform Homeless Shed. Old cellar. Mattress. We used to go to a chest and on the wall &quot;we are Apparently, they were hiding, Before the war, how After 2014, I was one of the Maybe one to 10 people Since 2014, when the when it they The masks Everything was Everyone in about our That since 2014 we have not celebrated February 23 We tried to communicate We still speak Surzhik. Our children must be taught.[Ukrainian] Our position was only and that russia Everything will There are no words for this talk I can't find For this, you need to devote to read history, Do not sit in tik-tok, where there are don't listen to russian It is enough to turn on the Listen what they listen to Shufutinsky. I have a great hope that many people have If we do not after this war, there will The price Independence is won In Ukraine, everything history, traditions, language, brain, hands, we can We are a strong and Only keep rockets under the pillow too much emotions What can be the emotions There is no village. If only my house God is with it, with the house, Many of our boys We are told I will not voice them because I do not know, this is unofficial but the numbers It was the beginning when our Yes, yes. If they had not the russians would have and would have And nobody knows what Kyiv would not be A monument should stand We will it is our duty. [Kharkiv region] The material was created within with the support of the Laboratory Institut fur die Wissenschaften