The Liverpool four knew that Abbey Road would wanted to close the circle in a special way, common that should be played together, that close with one of the most legendary verses everything about The Beatles' last song. Golden Slumbers was to be the last song of The of bringing peace to children and adults, but if thought it would be much better to create a set of together, what is known as Medley and that way he composed 'Carry That Weight' and 'The songs. We can find them closing The Beatles' Although the songs are credited to Lennon and The first one, Golden Slumbers, is based on the found one day on the piano in his father's house. another piece of song he was working on called sheet music, he created his own melody retaining 'Golden slumbers kiss your eyes'. Paul changed it original track continued: 'Smiles awake you when Then it says: 'Sleep, pretty wantons, do not cry'. darling'. The final verse also remained as it was The song evokes nostalgia, the loss of a safe place. It's just beautiful, isn't it? medley 'Carry that Weight', which refers to the the label. Paul wanted the track to describe the &quot;you have to carry that weight&quot;. The song ended one hand to th band LSD use, which in the late problems with their record label, Apple Records. to whom he refers in the verse &quot;I never invitations&quot;, alluding to the fact that Paul explained the meaning of I'm usually pretty upbeat, but at certain times anymore, and that was one of those times. high and all that Klein shit was going Carrying that weight for a long time: like The end of the Medley is 'The End', which closed only Paul McCartney could have written: is equal to the love you make'. than Paul McCartney would have ended up writing what he called the mix of songs on Abbey Road, put on one side of the album and Paul McCartney's for his part, had grown tired of McCartney's his energies to other projects. Along with Ringo himself completely to the Beatles until the end, Imagine how the situation would be that the July 2, 1969 without John Lennon who was in the recorded 15 takes of the songs, although join the rest a few days later in another Incidentally, contrary to what it may seem because 3 songs of 'Abbey Road', the Medley consists of sequence and without pause as follows: 2. Sun King 4. Polythene Pam 6. Golden Slumbers 8. The End to 'You Never Give Me Your Money', but 'Carry That Notice, on You Never Give Me Your Money he sings: my situation. And in the middle In Carry That Weight follows the I never give you my pillow. I only send the celebrations. I break down. Beatles' Final Medley? the 91 seconds of 'Golden Slumbers' are a 2. The one verse of 'Carry That Weight' guitar accompanying McCartney's voice. give is the love you get'. Can you imagine a Fun facts about The Beatles' Final Medley Slumbers and Carry That Weight' a week before The didn't like it at all; however, John Lennon The famous ending of 'The End': &quot;And in the end was written by Paul McCartney John Lennon commented on that verse: isn't it? We're at Abbey Road. He the end, the love you receive is equal to philosophical line. Which proves once 'Golden Slumbers' begins with a soft, bass and strings, but suddenly the drums louder tone. Paul explained it like this: vocal on it, because it was a soft track, and I ended up quite happy with it. noting Ringo Starr's drum solo, something The track also includes Paul McCartney, George Best versions of the Medley the Medley &quot;Golden Slumbers - Carry that Weight Collins on drums, Eric Clapton and Mark Knopfler orchestra and choir. A legendary performance. starting with Ben Folds in 2001 for the Spielberg in 2022 in his film 'The Fabelmans'. Although our favorite is Jennifer You also can't miss Phil Collins' version of My Life' by George Martin in 1998. I have to confess; I've misled you a bit. While in 2023 the group released a new song. and the tireless spirit of Paul McCartney, genius brought 'Now and Then' to life. Lennon in 1977. Many years later, specifically with Ringo Starr's drums, and Paul McCartney's The story of the track 'Now and Then' goes back in Ono gives Paul McCartney a demo tape recorded included on it. Paul, George and Ringo reunite of The Beatles Anthology project. The first, But the third song entitled, 'Now and Then', of sufficient quality to extract John's voice. never be completed but in 2022 Peter Jackson about The Beatles, called 'GetBack, which I know it's true, it's all because of you, and Paul still had George Harrison's so they incorporated it, without including any After that McCartney asked he added the bass and some vocal parts along the last song of The Beatles. A romantic and The last recording of John, Paul and George wonderful. 'Now and Then' thus joins the legacy the history of popular music. Which do final medley with Golden Slumbers, Carry that This video is dedicated to all Beatlemaniacs hit like and share it with everyone you know.