Sooo I have to admit that from time to time which pretty much everything goes wrong. Case in point, the video in which I tried so that I can rotate it with my bicycle to Now even though the "induction motor generator" this date interested in hooking up a generator energy. And thankfully the comment section had the that which you can get more or less inexpensively And in case you do not know, such generators by the motor of it in order to create electrical to power all of the electronics. So I ordered one those generators and as you of 120A at 12V which equals a power of 1440W most of my home appliances. So in this video let's hook this alternator long desired bicycle generator setup and find my own and whether I could power my home with Let's get started! This video is sponsored by JLCPCB! Feel free to visit their website JLCPCB.com Assembly services they offer but also to easily and high quality PCBs quickly. First off let's have a closer look at the As you can see the front side comes with a typical for such alternators. The backside was a bit more complicated though plus output poles of the system, while the And there were also two smaller pins a bit yet. But anyway, to confirm that this alternator its main output poles and gave the rotor a nothing on the multimeter, brilliant. At this point I thought that because the generator whose AC output voltage needs to get rectified the voltage drop of those diodes would be a low RPM. I mean the voltage drop seems to be around just that. And considering that a car uses at least 1000 output, it was time to rotate faster. So brought in an old bike I had lying around least for one side of it. I actually had to do some tinkering at the gear. But after doing that, I was able to measure the bike with my hand. But as you probably already guessed, that another additional gear system. And once again it was the comment section promising solution. By simply removing the back wheel, deflating we are left with a rim which we can use as the car alternator comes with the other wheel. And since the alternators gear wheel features a diameter of around 57cm, we will get a gear enough to turn the alternator fast enough. So next I measured the approximate length width for it and finally decided on this 4 huge after receiving it but on the plus side, looked pretty promising so far. And after reinstalling the back wheel to the I know, my jokes are the best but honestly only holds the front wheel in place, but also holds it in position as well for which I also And after using some zip ties for the back So last but not least I added a big plank which I then aligned the car alternator, before and a couple of screws. And just like that the basics bicycle powered So I once again hooked up my multimeter to wheel as fast as possible but as you can see even though I reached an RPM of around 1500. Now the reason is actually quite simple to turn the rotor which does not oppose any kind But when we for example turn a BLDC motor which is due to the utilized permanent magnets output voltage with a generator. Now the car alternator does not feature such an exciter coil that we can power with a DC it into a magnet. But after doing a lot of research online about much no information on what pin to use for as it turns out the upper pin here seems to So I simply applied 12V to it while I connected see we get the resistance we were looking awesome. That means that after applying this knowledge power. As a test subject I went with this 12V 21W alternator and a power meter, can apparently but using my hands to pedal was not really So it was time to get serious; and after I construction, I was able to create a maximum But notice how the exciter coil current changes pedal at a constant rate. The reasons is the regulator circuit of the When used with a car, it is utilized to basically if drive at a lower RPM of 2000 or a higher current. But since I am using a bicycle, this control want to avoid it and directly power the exciter And after mistreating the alternator quite connected to the coil and thus I continued As you can see with an exciter current of 12W and 3A did once again only deliver 8W big which caused the belt to slip. But with a current of 2A I was able to create point it was actually a good workout. That means since I personally require around would have to ride my bike generator setup of energy. But only of we ignore that we also need 12W this generator setup almost useless; except But all in all I finally got my bike generator hope that you learned a thing or two as well If so don't forget to like, share, subscribe Stay creative and I will see you next time.