Four weeks ago we handed in our self-converted campervan in Hamburg and it went on a long trip to Uruguay. To be more precise to Montevideo. Now the time has come to finally pick up the van in Uruguay. Hello together! Good morning! We are in Frankfurt at the airport right now. Because today our big journey begins, because we are about to fly to Uruguay. Yes, and we have a 24-hour flight ahead of us and we are already very exhausted because we hardly slept that night. Four hours should be enough. But I would say we'll be in touch again from Montevideo. We finally arrived in Montevideo. The backpacks are already behind us. Luckily they arrived too. You don't know that exactly with three changes. The trip also took longer than planned because our first stop was in New York. And our flight to New York was so late that we missed the connection. So we had to spend another 24 hours in New York. We even had a very nice hotel in New York. Then we flew to Panama. Then there was a storm somewhere, which is why the onward flight was delayed by five hours. But then we could finally get on the plane and fly to Montevideo. But we're still so glad we're here now. Now only the van has to arrive and then we can finally start our adventure. Exactly, but now let's go to the hotel. Good morning! Morning! We were so tired after the flight last night and just fell into bed at the hotel and slept for 14 hours straight. And I'm still tired! It's called jet lag! We still have a lot to do after breakfast today. Because we might be able to go and pick up the van today. But before that we have to do a few things in town to pick up the van. Above all, we want to take a look at the city again, because the weather seems to be really great today. I'm excited to see the city. Let's go see the city. By the way, these are Max and Merle. We met them in New York because they had the same flight connection as us and they are also waiting for their van in Montevideo. We've now bought a few empanadas and I'm curious how they taste. Is that good? How delicious! There's so much cheese in there! Still delicious! We have now eaten something and are looking for a cafe. We have now found a cafe. It was recommended to us. Let's go in there now. We are just at the port of Montevideo because we actually wanted to pick up our van. However, this is now delayed. We didn't expect that this could happen now. Because the dock workers are on strike and we can't get to our van now . And we'll probably have to wait over a week now. So we definitely need to extend our hotel. Let's see if that works at all. Now let's just look at the city. Now we have enough time for that. Because we now have to wait a few more days for the van, we unfortunately have to change hotels again. Unfortunately, the room is already booked elsewhere. Because we only booked for three days, and now it's going to be more than a week. But we found a new hostel. We can walk there. But first we have to clean up the whole mess. We managed that in two days. Clean up first. That's 23 kilos on my back. It must be Timo! A bit smaller than the old hotel but ok. The main thing is that we have a window, a bathroom, a closet and a bed. What more do you want? For another week... Good morning! We just slept really well. Today we have something very special planned. We want to do a really long hike today. I think it's about 20 km long. But I would say before we do that, we have to strengthen ourselves first. Then we'll go have breakfast, because there's even coffee for breakfast here. May I help you! Oh nice warm coffee. Here we go! Half of our trail is now over. We have now been on the road for about three and a half hours and have now arrived here at one of these lighthouses. We're having lunch here. It was really cool because all the people here are really relaxed. They do sports here or chill on the Rambla. This is the coast road here. But we'll definitely be on our way back now. We're going to look at a few neighborhoods that we don't know yet. Because the architecture in Montevideo is really impressive and I hope we can take a few more cool impressions with us. I'm excited too. Until tomorrow! Today it's finally time and we can pick up our van and I'm very excited. In fact, it's already a day late, which costs us an extra $60. But hey, we're gonna get him today. I just hope everything is ok with the car. We are here with our small group on the way to pick up the respective vehicle at the port. Hey there he is! Look, there he is! And here's the key. That doesn't exist, the van in Uruguay! Insanity. It's just unimaginable that we have the camper here in Uruguay. And I hope that everything arrived safely. But you can see that in the next video. If you want to follow our journey, be sure to give us a thumbs up and subscribe to our channel :). We didn't even say what we're doing here. The Panamericana! Bye!