Don't laugh, let me judge the pig. It's this charcoal head. Let's go. You bold fat pig. I was interrogated but I didn't kneel Still lying Too arrogant! Outrageous, too arrogant Are you aware that you are stealing other people's money? Unrepentant It seems that there is no way to recruit without fighting. Is that right? right... I will give you thirty lashes. It depends on whether you recruit or not. I'm willing to admit it, I'm willing to admit it Speak What? You are indeed pitiful. This prisoner breeder pig said It has parents above and children and grandchildren below Therefore, due to the difficulties in life If you want to know, Where is the money? As long as everyone is kind Donate a penny So that he can go to jail? Family life is guaranteed How about it? If you want to know Where is the stolen money? Just donate a penny. The second brother who buys tofu Please bring a basin of water Okay, let's go. Thanks... You're welcome It's just a penny Everyone is just here to watch the fun. How is it...? Thanks... Thanks... This dude Don't you want to clear your name? The criminal's breeding pig said This stolen money is here. How could that be? What nonsense are you talking about? Can pigs talk? You take me for a fool Pigs can't talk. But money can talk This old man selling sesame cakes Every day he collects and changes money with his oily hands. So only his money will produce oil. But the money that everyone put into the basin just now Only your money is floating in the water Still want to deny it? I hit you Uncle, I'll give you the money. Thank you... You are smarter than our county magistrate. No... In the future You will definitely be a good official. Please ask my brother What is your name? I am Bao Zheng You'll definitely be a good official. Gongsun Ce, thank you for what you did just now You may not be so smart. Can it be accepted by the elegant hall? But I just want to help. No other ideas We are all readers It's not a monkey trick. If he passes the imperial examination and becomes a court official Then these little things will become a laughing stock. That would be a loss of status. How can this be called a monkey trick? It's not necessary to kill people to solve a case. Oops, someone's going to die. This time, not only did someone hang himself A doctor who assisted in the autopsy I'm gonna starve to death. Mrs. Bao Now that the body has been brought in, can we start? I'm obviously a doctor. Why would he help the government examine a corpse? As a doctor Just cure the patient Let him continue to live well. But he helped the government examine the corpse. Uncovering one injustice after another Sorry, Mrs. Bao I won't bother you next time. How can that be possible? I help the government. It is to convey the last words of the deceased. Tell everyone The corpse can speak Of course sometimes the corpse says More than living people. She should have died at Two to four hours I just checked her throat. Tight throat The wound on the neck means death by suffocation The deceased was extremely weak. A long-term patient lady... This is my grandfather. Let him in Madam Let him go away Come on, don't disturb Mrs. Bao Let her examine the body. Lift her up Come on, help him over there. Hey, she's dead. What else do you want? Sir, don't get excited. I am respecting her This body is the Madam's living body. The only credential What could be more respectable than this? It is Tianma Niuhuang, which can stop poison and reduce qi. The deceased was suffering from palpitations. The heart often aches Doctor, you are right. Our lady is really sick. Mom, I'm sorry. I'm late, the meal is here... Don't stop me from doing things. good... This is Captain Lu's business. Why are you meddling in other people's business? It doesn't matter They are all working for the public. What is this? Gastrodia elata and bezoar There are results What is the result? The cause of death was suffocation asphyxia? It's pitiful to be sick and tired of the world It's murder How could it be murder? There are two doubts First, this medicine Yes, if you want to commit suicide Why take medicine? And the food is still Medicines for treating palpitations such as Tianma Niuhuang Took these medicines There's also a stomachache. Since I'm going to die Why still endure all this hardship? Second, it's on her neck. Yeah... you see Under the marks on the neck There are two faint round pinch marks This is obviously after strangling to death Hang it up again? Right? Is it you who does the testing or me? They're all for the public. Right, mother? What's going on? I don't know Yesterday I went to the countryside to collect rent When I came back I saw What about you? It's the Queen Mother's birthday again Madam asked me to be a servant Small cups and small plates to pray at the temple And my wife is close to Xiaoqian Go to the doctor to get medicine When we came back, the lady... So to speak Everyone has an alibi. Please ask these two sisters How long have you been working here? Ten years Seven years What about you? Half a year I know who the murderer is. That's him How could...it be me? This gentleman You just said you were from Rushing back from the fields yes But, I see your shoes and socks. But it is clean and spotless This doesn't make sense. Did you rush back last night? While everyone is away Killed your wife with your own hands? I don't have This is purely your speculation. I knew you wouldn't admit it. But I have a second piece of evidence. What evidence? I saw the scar on your wife's neck. There is a thumbprint There are actually horns on this thumbprint! Why are there horns on this person's thumb print? Come... Unless He wore a jade ring on his thumb. You are the murderer. Come on, someone, Take it, yes You are so smart Can you guess why he Want to kill his wife? Then ask her. What does it have to do with me? I don't know either. But what I don't know is Why did they both take so long? But I still use a cloth handkerchief You came so short. It's a silk scarf. Could it be a gift from some master? Right, mom? I can't reason I am a doctor This is not Tianma Niuhuang The Thirteen Guardians It is life-saving and abortion-safe oh... Madam, you are so old, you don't need it anymore. Congratulations girl She is happy. Congratulations... master Congratulations None of my business It's Master Everything was done by the master He said that after his wife died Just take me as his concubine Don't catch me. Don't catch me You and your son are helping the government again. Solved a case? It seems that my position as a police chief will be I'll give it to you. Don't praise me, it's my mother's teaching My mother is capable. Of course, I eat salt. More than the rice you eat. Mom, why do you eat so much salt? Bad for your health Captain Lu, are you hungry? Come, have a piece of cake No... Want... Eat... You're welcome. Tastes good Not bad Mom, you just finished the autopsy. Have you washed your hands? No need to wash your hands No need to wash hands Have you ever touched medicine vomited out by a corpse? Wash your hands before eating the cake It's okay, I didn't eat the cake. You didn't eat the cake, then... Someone is in the Bamboo Forest of Hundred Ghosts Killed a tiger Mom, someone killed the tiger. Go check it out hurry up... Big Hero No...I'm sorry. Thank you all Awesome, hero... Mom, look Such a big tiger Brother Shen You are amazing Bao Zheng, you are not allowed to laugh at me Chen Liang Ya ,Ni Jiu Bu Yao Qian Xu Liao You are also doing this to eliminate harm for the people, that's right Chen Dao Tou ,Ni Qing Liao Liang Tian De Jia It turned out that he went to fight tigers The tiger is a nuisance and must be eradicated. I heard there is a female ghost in the Bamboo Forest of Hundred Ghosts Did you see it? What ghosts and gods? I don't believe in any of this. No, I heard it's very powerful. Yeah, yeah, it's awesome. No matter how powerful a ghost is, it can't be compared to a tiger. Chen Liang Ya ,Ni Da Wan Lao Hu Qu Da Nu Gui Good...good idea Okay, Mrs. Bao I'm leaving now. good Let's go Let's go... Protect the Prince Escort Thanks Walk Your Highness, I'm sorry to scare you. big eater Chen Liang ,Dai Qi Ren Ma Search the entire Luzhou city Yes, sir. The Governor of Luzhou pays homage to His Royal Highness the Crown Prince Start stop It's unfair, sir. I have stolen things before. But I didn't kill anyone. It's unfair, sir. It's unfair... Will this catch the assassin? I think the assassin has gone into hiding. Why would anyone walk around the streets? This is an order from the prefect. I have no choice Come on... stop... Catch me... Come... stop... Come on... Come on... Then catch it... Come on... catch it I'm not a bad person, why are you arresting me? Who are you? I am a beggar You are definitely not an ordinary beggar. Tell me quickly, or I'll send you back to the government office. I'm really not a bad person She's not an assassin. She saved me here last time. That's it Are you okay? Why? Don't think I'll thank you. I helped you last time You helped me this time We are tied at one to one Anyway, I want to thank you. Not that easy I didn't ask you to thank me. By the way, I apologize for offending you. Really Having said so much I'm definitely offended. You can hear this, you bat I didn't say that. Bao Zheng This gentleman May I ask where you are from? I'm from Beijing. Only seven days left to leave the capital Just arrived This is my exit certificate. Is it true? Fortune comes from heaven, but it is precious for people to know themselves This knife-head brother Are you interested in listening to the next two sentences? Since you can tell fortunes for others Can you do the math for yourself? Your destiny today Will you go to jail? It is fate that cannot be avoided, it is disaster that cannot be avoided All this is God's will Did You Know It's not God who controls your destiny today It's in my hands. How do you know your own thoughts? Isn't it something God has put in your heart? Chen Dao Tou ,Yao Bu Yao Ba Ta Gei Zhuo Hui Qu Ya ? No need, he has an ultimatum I left the capital seven days ago. It shouldn't be him. Let him be. Look at the face of this knife head Something big is going to happen in the near future It's fate that can't leave It's a disaster that can't be avoided I see this fortune teller is not an ordinary fortune teller If he were an ordinary fortune teller Of course it's the best What he just said Why should I take it to heart? The last assassination attempt failed Our plan was wrong. I already have a plan This time I will definitely kill him. His Royal Highness Do you like this show? I have always longed for the Central Plains culture So this time I begged my father Send me to the Song Dynasty But what I have seen and heard in these few months I am so disappointed. The decline of the Song Dynasty's civil and military power Not even as good as Goryeo No wonder the Liao people were on the border between Song and Liao Unscrupulous Still baring its teeth and claws His Royal Highness Our Central Plains culture is extensive and profound Maybe we, the younger generation, are not good enough in learning. This gave His Royal Highness the illusion Yeah? We Koreans value boldness and exuberance. I know Luzhou is a land of talented people. I have an absolute If you can Within the time of one stick of incense If you come up I take back what I just said. this... Please teach me, Prince Okay, listen. The first line is Ten people are thinking about their country, their families and their country. This is the first word split Cross plus mouth plus heart, this is the word &quot;thinking&quot; It's a bit difficult You guys take your time to think about it, someone come light some incense No need I'll go first The second line is Enjoy the wind, the moon and the Mid-Autumn Festival good Okay, Bao Zheng, what about you? I'm a bit similar Eight-eye Kaga, New Year, Month, and Peace good Write about emotions and scenes The Song Dynasty is indeed a land of talented people Brother Gang It is said that the Song Dynasty had strong trunks and weak branches Emphasis on culture over martial arts, how about this? Let's make friends through martial arts How is it? This... Lu Yun Although I am a head of the police But in terms of martial arts Huan Shi Dao Tou Chen Liang Bi Jiao Zai Xing ,Chen Liang Zai Xia Nai Lu Zhou Dao Tou Chen Liang Learn from the Korean warriors' clever tactics Prince, let me teach you. Wait, someone has a knife head. We have a great general. This... is an unfair victory Our Minister of Rites Cui Guanghao A man of both civil and military talents It is said that his family inherited the willow leaf sword technique Unique in Goryeo Today is a good time for everyone to see Then Cui will learn from you. good... Everyone, click until then Lord Cui, where are your weapons? Do we need to send someone to the room to get it? No, I never carry a weapon. I'll use a knife instead of a sword. General Park Lend me your knife Minister Cui, you are so brave I deserve death You will be happy if you kill me I dare not So, you doubt Mr. Cui. have no idea Last night's sword If the prince cannot dodge He has already died. As for that sword Intentional or unintentional That's not clear. At that time, I was fighting with him His sword came quickly. I remember it. On the day of the assassination, he did not immediately protect the prince Just guarding the princess's sedan chair Could it be... It's really unclear And that fortune teller His arrogance Not like the average wanderer The five-day deadline set by the prince is coming soon. Really Beat you to death... Hit you... Beat you to death...beat you Beat you...beat you to death...beat you stop... Why do you bully people? We are not bullies. She is not a human, she is a wolf girl Asshole, who said that? My mother said that she is a wolf girl and she will eat people. No, listen to me. She is not a wolf girl, she will not eat people She is just an ordinary girl Let me see you bullying her again. I won't let you go Are you okay? Get up, come I'll help you push Okay, it's okay. Thank you, but I don't have money to pay for the medicine. Then don't give it to me. Just help me empty a few more toilets later. Empty the toilet more often Mom, you need to eat more croton first. Otherwise, why would there be so many toilets? Damn, I finally hit you How is it? Does it still hurt? No one has ever been so nice to me. They all despise me and bully me Don't be sad Don't listen to them Are those who pour night incense also human beings? I am not a human Silly boy, it's been so many years. Still in my heart Thank you, Mrs. Bao, I have to go now Then you better be careful. Slow down When Xiao Ai's mother was pregnant with her, she was bitten by a wolf. I'm sick and I drool when I'm sick. Biting people like crazy Several people in the village were bitten by her. Actually, after my mother was bitten by a wolf It's rabies I was born that night. As a result, her father took her and her mother And her grandmother Retreat to the White Devil Bamboo Forest Later I heard Her mother is ill again. Not only did she bite her father to death She ate her father. Eat her dad I remember one time My mother is ill. She is in so much pain. She's so pitiful I almost bit off my tongue My father saved my mother. A moment of anxiety He put his hand into his mother's mouth My mother seemed to be really crazy at that time Bit off two of my dad's fingers. At this time, someone happened to pass by and saw So I passed it on. It was said that my mother bit my father to death. And ate him Later, my father also got rabies A month later, my father also died. That little girl's rabies Will it be passed on to Xiao Ai? I don't know either The disease rabies We don't know much I just hope She can meet someone who loves her. Whether she is sick or not I can take good care of her for the rest of her life. Outflanking from both sides, quick Don't let it run away Prince... What's the matter? You can't enter this bamboo forest. Why can't I come in? There is a ghost in this bamboo forest Is there a ghost? Yes... last month Old Hu from Thirteenth Lane goes alone into the White Ghost Bamboo Forest The next day he died without explanation. I've never seen a ghost. Just caught it tonight Make dinner for everyone Prince, please slow down. We should go together. stop Help! Help! Where can you run to? Walk Away Don't come over here How many girls want to be my concubine? I don't care Today is your blessing. I don't want to be your concubine, go away Don't worry, I will take you back to Goryeo The glory and wealth are endless I don't want it, help me, Yaksha Queen If you are there, come and rescue me I think the female ghost can't protect herself either. Come on, come on Help! Who is playing tricks? Your Highness, how are you? What's going on? vague I can't even see your dog clearly. The prince was injured by the ash Fortunately, the eyeball was intact. Just watching things these two days It will be a bit blurry It's okay What did you Song people do? Someone has been unfavorable to this king time and again You are totally defenseless If you don't give me an explanation this time I want you to move your heads Your Highness, please calm down. I have already added staff The assassin must be brought to justice Your Highness, what do you do? What do you do? This king was almost assassinated by an assassin Where did you all go? Your Highness, please forgive me. big eater... Brother, since there is nothing serious Brother, since there is nothing serious Don't be angry anymore. We are always guests from afar Don't let people laugh at you yes... Your Highness, please forgive me for being so talkative. When you are in trouble What happened in the Bamboo Forest of Hundred Demons? Who did you see? What happened? The enemy has been plotting against me I can't see anything clearly But why are you in this dilapidated temple? What do you mean? Interrogating the king? Am I a criminal or a victim? Your Highness, please calm down... calm down. Don't say it You all go out, I need to rest Exit... Let's go General Park, you stay. yes Xiao Ai How did you escape? The one in the clutches of the Goryeo prince? I don't know either I am scared Suddenly There's a ghost passing by the window I closed my eyes in fear Suddenly a cold hand pulled me up I fainted from fear When I woke up Already outside the Bamboo Forest of Hundred Ghosts I escaped immediately Did you see clearly? Who saved you? I'm so scared I can't watch But I think it really looks like a ghost Ghost? Impossible. It's true When I asked for help from those Yaksha idols Well, she came out. real? Whether true or false The key to the problem lies in the Goryeo prince As a prince, he was lawless and oppressed women. No, I must ask Lord Gongsun to judge the matter. Get justice for you Bao Zheng, it's useless The emperor who breaks the law is guilty of the same crime as the common people. Can't let him go When the emperor breaks the law, how can he be guilty of the same crime as the common people? Emperor Yang of Sui was licentious and immoral Emperor Taizong of Tang killed his brothers If they were to be held accountable, how many emperors could escape? Can we just let it go like this? Son, you should not be intimidated by the situation or be wary of the threat. Mom is very happy But now the Song Dynasty needs help from Goryeo The Goryeo prince was even a state guest. Who dares to offend? What's more, Lord Gongsun has always been timid and cowardly. You want him to seek justice for Xiao Ai That's a fool's dream Thank you, Brother Bao However, I don't want to have any more branches To avoid trouble Xiao Ai There's really nothing we can do. Even if Xiao Ai has a hard life, But the most important thing is This matter must not be known to Brother Shen Brother Shen is still protecting them. If he knew What if something happens? That would be terrible. I was able to escape last time I know it was the Yaksha Queen who helped me Thank you for saving my life Lord Gongsun has ordered I specially sent you this team of yamen runners Protecting the Crown Prince of Goryeo No special circumstances No one can enter Laiyi Pavilion It's the Seventh Prince. It's so late and he's still awake. I have long heard that the fishing lanterns in Luzhou bring joy to thousands of people Since Xiao Wang entered the city I have never had a good look around Luzhou City. I heard there's a fishing lantern festival in the east of the city tonight. Xiao Wang wants to see I will inform the prefect immediately. Gather your men to accompany you No need You Song people have a saying A blessing is not a disaster, but a disaster cannot be avoided I want to go take a look. It'll be fine. But No need to say more General Park His Royal Highness It's so late, why aren't you waiting outside the city? Why are you carrying these weird things? I am following the orders of the Crown Prince. Bring the blanket to His Royal Highness The emperor's brother was able to adapt to the cold weather in Goryeo. I'm still afraid of the cold here The prince guessed right. This chick really returned to the ruined temple to worship the gods Give us the chance What Xiao Wang wants There is never a time when you can't get it yes Please enjoy your meal slowly, Prince. By the way, tell those Song people They are not allowed to come in without my order. This time, no one will come to save you. Come here, you, come here Come here, where are you running to? stop come over Prince, what happened? There's a ghost... There is a ghost... There is a ghost How can this be possible? My prince is a prince. You made me live in a haunted house. Do you intend to harm me? His Royal Highness Laiyi Pavilion was newly built for the crown prince and the princess. How could there be a ghost? I don't care whether you built it new or old. Anyway, it's wrong to have ghosts. It is often said that the Song Dynasty was a land of outstanding people and beautiful scenery. I think if a man is not outstanding, the land will not be good. This... this female ghost is the most spiritual Your Highness, could the so-called female ghost be The former assassin was mysterious Did you see it wrong because your eye injury has not healed yet? Can't I tell whether it's a human or a ghost? That female ghost is so powerful Not only will it fly around And you can fly up slowly You said that even if a person can do Qinggong She...she didn't go slowly The reason for flying upwards Yeah, I saw it too. Your Highness, it's alright. Lord Gongsun The prince was frightened Need a break Besides, the most important thing now is How to protect the prince's safety Mr. Cui's words make sense I will return home immediately. Send more troops to protect His Royal Highness the Crown Prince It's all up to me. I'm leaving now. Your Highness Go... I just heard those yamen runners say General Park brought a girl in. I guess this It must have something to do with that girl. No matter if she is a girl or a ghost The most important thing now It's to surround this place. Don't let even a mosquito fly in. If something happens again I really can't bear it. They will stay here for ten days. How am I going to get through this? quick Give way Everyone calm down. Get out first and don't mess up the scene. Yes, everyone, exit first and stay in your position. Protect other Goryeo envoys Captain Lu, you lead your men to guard Laiyi Pavilion closely. Chen Dao Tou Ni Ling Ren Si Zhou Che Di Sou Cha Find the suspicious person good Gongsun Zhen, why did my royal brother die? You are the governor of Luzhou Why in your place? Can assassins be allowed to come and go freely? Kill my brother I don't know, how could this happen? The assassin may have sneaked in in disguise. Every time something happens, you always make excuses Xiao Wang will never forgive you this time Seventh Prince Don't worry, Master Gongsun, no matter what you say He was also an official appointed by the imperial court. Do not harm at will I think it's more important to catch the murderer. Yes, the murderer's motive is unknown. What if he wants to sow discord between Song and Goryeo? Isn't it what he wants if you do this? OK, Gongsun Zhen Xiao Wang gives you five days to catch the murderer. Hand it over to Xiao Wang for disposal Otherwise, Xiao Wang will kill you first. Your Excellency, Mrs. Bao and Bao Zheng are waiting outside the door. OK, please The prince was severely scratched. He had forty-three scars all over his body. He died from excessive blood loss. The prince, his eyes were open and his hair was dishevelled Slightly clenched hands I believe he fought someone before he died. So the flesh of his wound shrank and curled up The blood is abundant and fresh because of being injured by others So the scene was full of blood and flesh In the final analysis, I think the prince is Caught alive Who is it? Such a ruthless move Is there a deep hatred? When my mother performed the autopsy We also found some sawdust in the prince's fingernails. Right? I also found some strange things What's the matter? Laiyi Pavilion was recently built All furniture is new How come there are scratches? What is going on? The scratches were made by the prince before his death. It's the mark he left for us. Maybe it's to tell us who the murderer is. That's right The depth and width of the scratch match the prince's fingernail. I believe it was done by the prince. Just this cross It is a name, a symbol, a weapon Or are there words that have not been written yet? So, the murderer must be a martial arts master. We can start from this aspect. Still something is wrong I just checked Doors and windows of the prince's room They're all locked from the inside. We also have to break in when something happens. Only then did they discover that the prince was dead Just knowing martial arts I can't do that either. That's right, the whole story of Laiyi Pavilion There are guards on duty. The murderer can't be Escaped our guards without making a sound And when I brought people here Just happened to happen Hear the prince's cry We'll rush in. The murderer had no time to flee the scene. Then, there is another possibility The murderer was originally in Laiyi Pavilion Because this is how you can evade the guards Killing without being seen May I ask His Royal Highness the Prince At the time of the incident, His Royal Highness and the envoys Where are you? I was in the room when the incident happened. My two maids can testify to this. I was drinking at Chunfeng Manyuelou in Dongmen before. I came back when you were checking my brother's body. Yes, when drinking I also had an argument with a drunk man. The people in the restaurant saw it. I was practicing sword alone in my room. Haven't been anywhere Yes, I saw it from the window Lord Cui is dancing with a sword General Park and the Goryeo Guards stationed outside the city I entered the city after the incident. Other Goryeo soldiers can testify The guard is so tight You guys are not here Is it really a female ghost? What female ghost? Before the incident The prince's room was haunted There should be another woman in the room. But then he disappeared How could that woman be in the prince's room? Yes, I was ordered by the prince. Caught from the White Devil Bamboo Forest What's your name? So what? Then Xiao Ai...where is Xiao Ai? How is she? How would I know? You...she's not here After the incident, I also looked for I haven't seen any trace of her. As a prince, he forcibly seized a woman from the people It's really hard to tolerate My Goryeo prince was murdered and died in the Song Dynasty This is something that is intolerable. I will immediately write a letter back to inform my father. Gongsun Zhen, it's people catching people, it's ghosts catching ghosts If you can't hand over the murderer Then, we only have Fighting You will bear all the consequences then. Walk Please stay. Please stay. Your Royal Highness... I can't even catch a human, let alone a ghost. This time my life is in danger. Bao Zheng, you are famous for your wit Please really help me this time. If you and Ce'er Lu Yun , Chen Liang Zai Yi Qi There's hope of solving this case. Lord Gongsun, this is a matter of great importance. Bao Zheng will do his best Find the real culprit Is it really possible? no Peace is the most important No, you should fight. Peace is the most important Stop arguing, you two. The Crown Prince of Goryeo died in Song territory The Korean envoys wrote to me to ask for punishment Should we fight and should we make peace? I can't decide Your Majesty, the territory of our Song Dynasty is twice that of Goryeo. The troops are well-trained and the food is sufficient There is no need to be humble in front of Gao Li. Isn't that the case? The Crown Prince of Goryeo died in the territory of our Song Dynasty We are at fault. Your Majesty, if you rashly send troops again, I'm afraid... Lord Eight, you are too kind. Report Report to the Emperor: Border emergency This morning the Ministry of War received an urgent message from the border. There are unusual movements of troops in Goryeo They urgently enlisted I don't know what the purpose is Your Majesty, Goryeo asked for punishment with a letter from the emperor Gathering troops It seems that he has already decided to fight Geng You Shen Zhe I am afraid that the death of the Crown Prince of Goryeo It's a scam in itself Mr. Pang Aren't you too worried? The Goryeo Emperor sacrificed a prince Just to start a war with my Song Dynasty What's good about him? If they have already colluded with others In order to do something bad? Murphy Are you saying that Goryeo is colluding with Liao? Your Majesty, please do not be impulsive Did Goryeo and Liao collude? It's too early to tell But most of our military strength is concentrated in the Northeast The Liao Dynasty in the northwest has an opportunity to take advantage of Besides, Goryeo's troops are just scratching the surface. The Liao Dynasty in the northwest is the jackal, tiger and leopard Your Majesty, the state is at stake If the Goryeo soldiers were allowed to demonstrate on the border Where is the prestige of our Great Song Dynasty? Please allow the emperor to Quickly mobilize 200,000 officers and soldiers to the Northeast To suppress the arrogance of Goryeo Your Majesty, the fate of a country cannot be determined by military action. To prevent the Liao Dynasty from taking advantage of the situation The Eighth Wise King, if Goryeo were to launch an invasion regardless of the consequences Will you be able to handle it then? Master Pang, if the two countries go to war Are you leading the way? Going to the battle in person? Your Majesty, Goryeo is only for the death of the crown prince As long as we find out the truth Make an Account to Goryeo We can also form an alliance It can also eliminate the scourge of war It really kills two birds with one stone The prince said it lightly, but the war is imminent Could it be that the prince has some magical trick? The real murderer can be caught within a few days. Speed is of the essence If the murderer cannot be handed over Goryeo invaded again Your Majesty, what do you think we should do? That's him That night This Korean prince did come here to drink It's just normal. The Laijiu who always asks others for wine Ask him for a drink As a result, the young man became impatient. I started arguing with him. What happened next? That Laijiu uses a kettle The back of the Korean prince Scalded it OK, you go first, thank you. It's okay, take your time. It seems that the seventh prince did not lie yes People in Laiyi Pavilion They can prove they were not at the scene. But the people outside the pavilion It's impossible to go in and kill people. Yeah, the whole thing is so weird. The prince's room is obviously sealed. How did the murderer get in? How did it come out? Is it really a female ghost? I never believed in ghosts. There must be some other place. We didn't notice In fact, as long as you find Xiao Ai The problem will become clear But it's been two days Still no news about Xiao Ai Little Aiji has his own destiny It'll be alright. It's strange Where did such a strange sedan come from in Luzhou City? I don't want to live anymore, I want to jump off the building Why are you so stupid? Pay your debts, I won't sell you out. Don't worry Well said, well said. Pay debts He owed me twenty taels of rent that day Make a promissory note If you don't have money to pay, you can use your daughter as compensation. Am I right? Do you have the money to pay back? No Come, take the girl away good No If a promise is made but not carried out, the resentment is greater than that of not keeping it. If you make a promise, you should keep it Yes, well said, well said. This gentleman is right. However, the Song Dynasty Criminal Law Human trafficking is strictly prohibited Twenty strokes of the cane Cast for one year In serious cases, exile for 3,000 miles Since you owe the debt, can't you just pay it back? Qirui The little guy is Take it, don't be so presumptuous Just a little bit of money to get rid of me I'm going to make a decision today. If you have the guts, go to the government and sue me This brother I am the knife chief of this county. This is the headhunter. Since you and the father and daughter have different opinions All right Just come back to the government office with me and we'll talk. Go, wait I have a promissory note. So what if there is a promissory note? That's right good Today, we have different opinions It depends on God's will. Come Did you see I have two chess pieces in my hand, one black and one white Old man, can you guess which of my hands has the white piece? Our debt is written off. If I guess wrong, your daughter will follow me. How about it? Guess... This old man I guess this is pretty good. How about I do it for you? No... I guess this is Baizi. He guessed wrong I guessed wrong, no Let me see Look everyone, this is a black guy I guess this is Baizi. Aren't you still a black fan? you... Walk Daughter, thank your father quickly. Thank you, Lord. Get up Sir, my master wants to see you. This side May I ask what advice this sir has for you? young people May I have your name? Student Bao Zheng Bao Zheng Young man, you are very righteous. May I ask what is this gentleman's name? Get out of the way... Get out of the way! The prefect is here. The sedan chair was carried away What's so great about the prefect? My master doesn't take him seriously. Get out of the way Bold Uncle, forget it. What? I'm already dizzy. The big one doesn't take me seriously The little one doesn't even take me seriously. I want to see who you are Qirui Damn you, officer... This subordinate offends the Thousand Year Old Lord Damn you, officer... I can't even recognize the Eighth Prince. Damn it You left Beijing to be an official here. It's been twenty years yes... You have never been back to Beijing in twenty years It's normal that you don't know me. Is the Eighth Prince coming this time? That's it The Emperor received an urgent letter from the Lord Send the king here immediately Solve it On the assassination of Goryeo Crown Prince Li Gang To prevent the two countries from going to war The lower official has no talent, the lower official is incompetent Poor performance I will do my best in the future Assist the Eighth Prince to solve the case Now is not the time to blame anyone. In fact, regarding this matter There was also much debate in the court The most important thing now How to resolve this crisis Arguing...arguing about what? Nothing, it's all important matters. When encountering some problems, everyone discusses... Expressing your own opinions is a way to pool collective wisdom. Your Majesty, I am willing to personally investigate this case. Find out the truth To ensure peace in the Song Dynasty Well said It seems that the prince is indeed talented. The real culprit will be caught within a few days. Then the two countries would not have to go to war. What Master Pang said is Good, Eighth Wise King Minister in I will let you take full charge of this case. But for five days Five days later, no results It was handed over to Master Pang to solve. That's it. Obey the order What are you all standing there for? Please take a seat... sit... Thank you, Lord On the Case of the Crown Prince of Goryeo Are there any new clues? I have already conducted a full investigation. At this point, who are the suspects? Now, yet, no Or any clues? My Lord, on the day of the incident It is said that in the prince's room Found that there is a A woman named Xiao Ai was also present But he disappeared afterwards. If you find this woman I believe it will help solve the case. Has the whereabouts of this woman been found? Your Majesty Recently, I have been investigating everywhere. Not found yet Your Excellency, someone has come to report Discover Xiao Ai's whereabouts Come on, look here. Go over there and take a look Where did you find these shoes? Reported that it was found nearby nearby Xiao Ai shouldn't go far. Don't worry, we'll find it slowly. Go over there and take a look Look carefully Xiao Ai, hey, I found Xiao Ai Come on, come here, I found Xiao Ai etc. There's not a single footprint around. How did Xiao Ai get there? Don't worry about him, saving lives is more important Go and have a look Xiao Ai... strangeness Xiao Ai Xiao Ai...It's me Brother Shen Xiao Ai...I am Brother Shen Xiao Ai Mom, why is Xiao Ai like this? I don't know either. When I felt her pulse I didn't find anything unusual Maybe before the coma Suffered a great blow I can't recover for a while. It must be the prince. I don't know what he did to Xiao Ai. That's why Xiao Ai would It's over... I thought I found Xiao Ai Then we can solve the case. Now how...how can I explain this to the prince? Xiao Ai, don't be afraid, Xiao Ai... Xiao Ai, don't be like this. Xiao Ai, listen to me. The prince is dead. He is dead. No one will bully you anymore Don't be afraid... you tell me How did you escape from the prince's room? It was a female ghost...a female ghost saved me Female ghost? Who killed the prince? He...he broke the female ghost statue She is so fierce It's a female ghost The ghost came to him. Then, he was afraid... It's a female ghost I can't see, I don't know I have no idea Xiao Ai...Don't be afraid, don't be afraid Brother Shen is by your side Don't be afraid, it's okay... What do you think about this case? What female ghost killing people? I don't believe it at all Xiao Ai was too frightened. The speech is incoherent and unreliable But she is also the only witness Some yamen runners also saw strange visions This proves that what she said is not true. It's all fabricated. But what is the truth? I can't penetrate either. That's not simple. The prince must want to abuse Xiao Ai. Xiao Ai killed him in anger. Then create an illusion Pretend to be sick and stupid to get away with it I've seen a lot of these cases. However, the yamen runners all saw Xiao Ai disappeared before the prince died. So if Xiao Ai can escape, Why kill the prince? So what do you mean...? I believe that after Xiao Ai escaped During this period before the prince's death Something must have happened. If you can unlock it The case will be solved soon This matter is not easy to figure out I already have some ideas in my mind. I already have some ideas in my mind. What's the plan? It's about Xiao Ai I'm not sure yet But I believe Just keep investigating You will see the result within one day. one day good I'll give you one day. As long as you find out There are many rewards Thank you, Lord Chen Liang , Lu Yun Go to the Bamboo Forest of Hundred Demons and continue searching Spotting suspicious people Bring it here to me right now.