The young chairman has returned home. In my early years, I made two marriages for Chen. It's time to go back. Hu Wanjin, the richest man in Daxia, was assigned to be a subordinate to the young master. This hundred trillion family property should also be handed over to him. Ever since Mom died, Dad became the richest man in the world. Never came back here again. Boss Su How can this shabby Lu family be worth tens of billions of dollars? You are You are Lu Chen. I'm Su Qianxue The current president of Daxia Su Group I had an engagement with you. I came to tell you You don't deserve to be my Su Qianxue's man. I've ruined that unequal engagement. You poor beggar should have no problem. I Boss Su, you want to break the contract. What's his opinion as a poor beggar? He is a beggar who picks up garbage abroad. I've never seen money in my life. Compared to you who are worth tens of billions of dollars. He's a piece of junk. I know it's hard for you to accept. But as you can see, I am the youngest female president of the 10 billion Group in Daxia. And you You're just a poor beggar in rags. A casual piece of clothes on me It's worth hundreds of thousands. And you... It is only suitable to wear this kind of cheap land stalls with dozens of yuan. What do you deserve? Dress better than me My identity is nobler than mine. Pay for anything that doesn't make sense. I know it's hard for you to accept. I still can't see the gap between us. Next I will be taught by Hu Wanjin, the richest man in Daxia. Hu Wanjin's father arranged for me to stay. My dream is to be on top of global finance. Have dinner with the richest man in the world And you, you're the one who only knows how to pick up garbage. A poor beggar waiting to die We are not from the same world at all. You're right. What about you? It's only worth tens of billions. And your so-called goal It seems childish and ridiculous to me. We really are not a world. I know this is right. You've been hit a lot. After the Lu family went bankrupt You are abroad. I don't even have the most basic dignity to be a man. Be a beggar and pick up garbage If you can be like Wu Wanjin, the richest man, Worth hundreds of billions I will marry you without hesitation. It's a pity you're not. You're just an old family house. A poor beggar who can't afford to be cleaned. People like you. Why should I be the man of Su Qingxue? Why do I have to fulfill my engagement? As compensation for quitting your marriage. There are 100000 yuan in this card. But I kindly advise you to cherish it all. Because This will be the most spare money you will see in your life. My boss Su pitied you. Just take this money and get out of here. Don't think about coming near him and harassing him in the future. Remember. You are a beggar picking up garbage abroad. You will never be worthy of my boss Su. You are not even qualified to attend his teacher worship banquet. I don't deserve him. I don't deserve him. Master warrior guarded Hu Wanjin Kind of interesting. What? My dad found me another wife. If I don't go on a blind date, You have to go home and inherit a hundred trillion dollars. Boss Su, take a look. This is the private car of Lord Juan Jin, the richest man in Daxia. I didn't think of that. You can also meet the richest man in Daxia, Lord Juan Jin. The affairs of worshipers. I still have to ask the richest man for advice. Come with me to meet the richest man. Yeah. Okay. Master Gong's house is near the sea. There's no need to be so polite. The teenager should bring some good wine for this proposal. This is the former tribute wine that I have treasured for more than a hundred years. Ordinary people will never see it in their lifetime. Oh, right. The young master first arrived in Jinghai We can't live without a place to stay. This is the most luxurious private villa in Jinghai. The key to Fengtian will be given to you. Not long ago, young master. I received a letter of worship from Su Qianxue, president of Su's Group. Su Qianxue is already worth tens of billions of dollars at a young age. It may not be possible to be like a subordinate in the future. Work for your Tiangong consortium to make money add bricks and tiles He'll forget it. His character is too perverse. Call me. He doesn't deserve it. But Su Qianxue has told the whole of Jinghai A teacher worship banquet will be held three days later. He has so much fanfare. Obviously wanted to pass me. Have a relationship with your Tiangong consortium. If you don't agree, I'm afraid he will become a joke of the whole Jinghai business community. All right, I'll give him another chance. I will attend this teacher worship banquet. If he doesn't stand up to himself again, Then don't blame me. Thank you for your honor. Subordinates retire first. Mm-hmm. Boss Su found out. The richest man in the building, Lord Hu Anjin, is on the top floor. Yun Hai Tianya Ballroom Maybe an adductor belt is built outside. It's you. It's you. The poor beggar How dare you tease me and my president? Do you know what this place is? It is unexpectedly the most luxurious hotel in Jinhai. Only like our boss Su. A big shot worth tens of billions To come here. You were renounced by our boss Su. A penniless beggar You don't deserve to be here. In order to haunt my boss Su You really took great pains. I told you to go as far as you can. Don't act like a dog-skin ointment and be an evil person here. How can fireflies compete with the bright moon A toad at the bottom of a well Destined to look up at the white swans in the sky Obviously He hasn't put his beggar's identity right yet. I also want to be the superfluous son-in-law of my Su family. Little do you know He is not even qualified to attend my teacher worship banquet. A rich family has a superfluous son-in-law A mere 10 billion yuan is also called a rich family. You really have big breasts and no brains. Hey, you. Forget it There is no need for such a gibberish small part waste time after all Today, I will visit Lord Wu Wanjing, the richest man in Daxia. The main thing. I am not qualified to attend your teacher worship banquet. Su Xianxue is now the one who begged for a teacher. Senior officers and soldiers are bitter about gold. Want to pass your teacher worship banquet To win a chance to see you. Otherwise, you deserve to see me just because you are worth ten billion yuan. You're my flower You're my love I love you boy Xiao Lu sits Haven't seen you for years. How's your father? Not bad Nan Xue, long time no see. Lu Chenzhen is picking up garbage abroad. Bad luck I don't agree with Lao Li's marriage. A beggar who picks up trash Even bring my daughter foot wash. Are not qualified to do so. This kind of poor waste How can we be the son-in-law of the Li family? Oops. I picked up two bottles of moldy wine for the first time. Who knows? Did you find it in some dumpster? Aunt Li These two bottles are more than a hundred years of former tribute wine. More than a hundred years of former tribute wine I have only heard that Hu Wanjin, the richest man in Daxia, has a collection. Even our multimillion-dollar Li family I've never seen anything like this. How could a poor beggar like you have such a good thing? What a big joke. Using two bottles of fake wine picked up in the trash can Dare to take away my warm snow. You poor beggar are really whimsical Auntie, look. This is a million-dollar wild meat Ganoderma lucidum This is the best Yaochi snow lotus rarely seen in a century. Oops. Both of these are great tonics, baby. And this is... The Dream Star River necklace engraved by international masters Auntie, these gifts are worth 3 million. It's all my betrothal gift to the Li family. Auntie, are you satisfied? Be satisfied with Only the son of Fang's Group. To be worthy of warm snow in our house. What are the losers doing standing there? Why don't you give up your seat to Fang Shao? Slow What to do Fang Shao, I appreciate your kindness to your little daughter. But the little girl and Deer already has an engagement. Uncle Xiao Xue's engagement is with the Lu family. The Lu family had already gone bankrupt that year. Exile is not responsible. So this engagement will naturally be a waste of the internal organs. And I heard that the Li family has always wanted to be a member of the Jinhai celebrity family. But suffer from no way. Uncle, look. This is my idol mansion. The youngest CEO of a billionaire woman Invitation card for Su Qianxue's worship banquet The famous Su president of the Su Group. Hu Wanjin is about to pay homage to the richest man in the building. Guests hold a teacher worship banquet. This is his invitation. Isn't there just a stupid invitation? Who doesn't? As for making such a fuss Broken invitation card Although this is a common invitation for President Su's teacher-worship banquet. But only families worth more than 100 million yuan To have a shabby beggar who picks up garbage. What do you know? Attend the teacher worship banquet Those are all high-class bigwigs. Introduce one or two casually. That will make us Li Jiafei Huang Tengda. Fish enter the dragon gate If warm snow is favored by Hu Wanjin As a goddaughter. Then he can walk sideways in the building. Uncle, if you are willing to marry me with warm snow that This is the stepping stone to enter the family of the golden sea. It's yours. Lu Chen, you Lu Chen, you're crazy. Lu Chen I can't believe you tore up the invitation to President Su's teacher's banquet. There are only two invitations in our family. You're a deer. You're so impulsive. This invitation from Mr. Su's mentor. How many people miss the pursuit of unattainable? Isn't it just a broken invitation? Uncle, there's nothing to make a fuss about. It happened that Hu Anjin begged me to accept an invitation. Lu Chen, don't you see who you are now? You think you're the same young man of the Lu family before. Now you are shabby. Make a living by picking up garbage I'm not even qualified to meet a big shot like President Su. Not to mention that Hu Wanjin, the richest man in the summer, will kiss. I have come to send you an invitation to a feast for you. If you know Hu Wanjin, the richest man, Will you still pick up garbage and be a beggar abroad? If you really take out the invitation to the teacher's banquet of President Su, I will willingly let Nan Xue let you All right, then keep your eyes open. These are the notes of the vice president. This invitation is real. It's true I think you're really stupid. Suchen, you don't even understand counterfeiting. Purple prohibition plot President Su sent out a total of three. It's all sent with a head and a face. A man of noble status. You are a poor beggar Who are you? You don't want to say You picked up this Zijin invitation in the garbage, didn't you? Ha ha ha All right, you Lu Chen. First, two bottles of moldy wine. And now I've got a fake invitation. Is for us to take this fake invitation. Let's go to Mr. Su's teacher worship banquet. That's right. That's enough. Stop fooling around here. The engagement between warm Snow and Lu Chen His father and I agreed a long time ago. You can't go back on your promise. Whether or not there is a banquet invitation for Mr. Su Warm snow Tomorrow, you will take the deer to the Civil Affairs Bureau to register. Ah, Fang Shao. Sorry Lu Chen If you're really capable, Just take this fake dragonfly. To attend President Su's teacher worship banquet. We'll see. Let's go. Hey. I'm getting married. No, I'll tell you. They are not from the same world at all. You're just a penniless man. Beggars picking up rubbish abroad And I. He is already the president of Lee Group, which is worth tens of millions. There's a big difference between you and me. So So I advise you to get to know each other better. Don't think that with a marriage certificate You can have something special about me. And our wedding house. You sleep on the couch first. I'll wait for my father to let go. Divorce immediately What are you doing It's daytime. Today is not Su Qingxue's teacher worship banquet. She's not you. Idol go Go to the teacher worship banquet. Boss Su's teacher worship banquet Only capital celebrities who are worth more than 100 million To be eligible to participate. Our lawyers are worth tens of millions. Not eligible to participate You don't want to take this fake invitation. Let's go to Mr. Su's teacher worship banquet. Aren't you afraid of being beaten to death? What if it's true? You can see your idol. The elegant demeanor of Su Qianxue, the female president of ten billion yuan? Ah! Thank you for all the guests Come to my teacher worship banquet of Su Qianxue. Qianxue would like to thank you all. What did the president say? We can attend the youngest in the summer. A teacher worship banquet for a female president worth tens of billions of dollars. It is the honor of our jianghu chamber of commerce I can see some of your extraordinary elegant demeanor. It's the powder I've been waiting for a few lifetimes to fix. That's right. Mr. Su, the richest man in Daxia, Mr. Hu Wanjin Arrive at the banquet hall in 3 minutes. If it wasn't for the richest man in Daxia, Lord Hu Wanjin, Is now in the Golden Sea. It will not be the turn of these small roles worth 100 million. To participate in your teacher worship banquet. Just a moment, everyone. Lord Wu Wanjin's assistant just sent a message. Lord Wu will be here soon. Thank you Lu Shen, how dare you? I can't believe that with a fake invitation. Blend into the teacher worship banquet of Boss Su. Invitation, this is Mr. Su's teacher worship banquet. Who dares to do so? The richest man in the building, Lord Wan Jin. I'll be right with you. Dare to use a fake invitation to attend the teacher worship banquet It angered President Su and Lord Hu Wanjin. You don't want to live. Hello, Boss Su. I am Li Nuanxue of Jin Hai Li family. You are my idol. Oh, that's right. This is my husband, Lu Chen. I know him. The young master of Lu family before bankruptcy Now picking up rubbish abroad Live on beggars Didn't expect it. Lu Chen, you really stepped on your luck. To be the door-to-door son-in-law of the Li family. I don't know which one is blind. I think highly of you, a beggar who picks up garbage. Put away your ignorant face. Even if you pick up garbage abroad. I'm just as capable. The blind man behind him is bold. President Su's teacher worship banquet All present are the upper layers of the gold sea worth hundreds of millions of dollars. social lion Is it you, the beggar who picks up garbage? Where you can talk nonsense here. Why didn't Zhu Chen get down on his knees and kowtow three times? Apologize to Mr. Su and all the Jin Hai celebrities present. A penniless beggar like you There is no need for Mr. Su to open his mouth. Any Jinhai celebrity present here You can get someone to sign it. I, the Chamber of Commerce, assure you that Dare to offend Director Su In the future, in the whole of Jinghai There is no place for small potatoes like him. I really don't understand. The smelly feet of such a self-righteous woman It's worth marrying like this. Bah Lu Chen How dare you talk to Mr. Su like that? Do you think you are the son-in-law of my Li family? So you can be lawless? I'm telling you, the Li family is not rich enough. Boss Su is the group president with a fortune of tens of billions. I believe you want to join our Li family. Boss Su I'm so sorry, Lu Chen. He hasn't seen much of the world. Didn't mean to offend you. I am the youngest president of the 10 billion Group in Daxia. Will soon pay homage to Hu Wanjin, the richest man in Daxia, as his teacher. And I have a chance to join the Tiangong consortium. Next, I will have dinner with the richest man in the world. And you You are just a beggar from a strange Lu family. You even attended my teacher worship banquet. You have to get a fake invitation. I'm at the top. You rot in the mud. The reality is so cruel. I didn't ask security to kick you out. Peace of mind is my greatest kindness to you. You know what you look like to me. Like a retard. Poor beggar, you want to die. Ah! Ah! I can't believe you hit me. Do you know what this place is? Security? what about security? The dogs and men who forged banquet invitations Drive out My beggar's superfluous son-in-law I can't believe you were at President Su's teacher worship banquet. Beat up President Su's personal assistant. I really don't know whether to live or die. Do you know how much trouble you've made? Let me tell you something. You're dead meat The Li family behind you is finished with you. Leng Xue, your father asked you to marry me. Your Li family has now stepped into the upper mountain gate. It's a pity your father married you. A penniless poor beggar He is now hitting Mr. Su's personal assistant. I'm afraid the Li family is going to go with you. Lu Chen, I don't understand. A penniless poor beggar What right do you have to talk nonsense in front of Mr. Su? The face of the Li family made you lose face. Uncle Bai Xue Li was so kind to him. Is he worthy of Uncle Li? A poor beggar who picks up garbage Dare to make trouble in the laboratory of chief referee Su who is worth tens of billions of dollars. It's not just hitting Boss Su in the face. Also hit the faces of all the Qinghai celebrities present. I, Jinghai, are proposing Put this lawless poor boy and the aunt behind him Completely banned Cut off his way of life The Chamber of Commerce has completely banned it. Cut off his way of life My Jing Hai Zhou family is willing to cut off its life. Let me tell you something. What exactly are the qualifications? To be a duke and minister. Beggar, do you know what you're doing? Do you know whose position that is? This is my qualification. You need to get your ass down here. This position is the main seat of our entire banquet hall. None of the business celebrities from all walks of life dared to sit down. No one dares to disrespect him. It symbolizes the highest wealth of our entire Jinghai. You can't do it unless you have great wealth. You can't do it if you don't have to be above half a man. No, you want to die. Get your ass down here. This is the position of the richest man. How do you know I'm not rich? How do you know I'm not? Make Hu Wanjin kneel on the handrail No more than ten thousand people Go back and tell Hu Wanjin I'm not used to Su Qianxue. So this apprentice doesn't have to take it. It's over My Lin family is completely finished. Lu Chen Hu Wanjin, the richest man in the building, will be here soon. He is worth hundreds of billions of dollars. It should refer to his position to kill himself. Crazy. Crazy. He doesn't think that a woman president worth tens of billions of dollars You should worship him as your teacher. Lu Chen I've made the most regrettable decision in my life. If I listen to my father, I will marry you. Don't take my tolerance for you. As the capital of your indulgence. A group of beggars are carrying a piece of fake luggage Why are you qualified? Make trouble at my teacher worship banquet in Su Qianxue. Security, get him out of here. Stop! Lord Hu Wanjin is coming. Thousands of snow Mak sees the richest man. The richest man Humble Master Wan Jin Land sinking How dare you Hu Wanjin, the richest man in Daxia, came to the scene in person. Why don't you get out of the way? You want to die, the richest man. I am Sun Liancheng, general manager of jianghu Chamber of Commerce. I would like to represent the richest man. Beat and kill this useless son-in-law. Lu Chen, if you don't get up again No one can save you. Lu Chen, you have to go crazy. If you really die, What do I tell my dad? Poor beggars do not enter the virtuous. Deserved to be killed. Let me give him my seat. I dare to let Dare you sit down? Ah! I dare not report my identity now. Yeah I am very dissatisfied with today's party. I don't recognize Su Qingxue as a subordinate slave. Yeah Hey I am not satisfied with today's teacher worship banquet. Su Qianxue, you and my master and apprentice have not yet arrived. I hope you take care of yourself in the future. The richest man The richest man refused. President Su's teacher worship banquet It will definitely hit the headlines of Daxia tomorrow. How did this happen President Su took great pains to pay homage to the teacher. That's him. It must be his arrogant behavior that angered the richest man. Spoiled President Su's teacher worship banquet. Let President Su be reduced to the entire business community in Jinghai Smelly beggar with laughingstock A hundred lives are not enough for you. President Su Jianghu Chamber of Commerce is willing to kill this man for President Su. an inferior Qi Jianghu, president of Jinhaijiang Lake Chamber of Commerce, has met the young master. Yeah, stand up and talk. Master Xie His subordinates have just learned that the young master has returned home. It's too late to meet. And I beg your pardon. It's not your fault. I told Hu Wanqing. I won't let him reveal the news of my return to China. Young master Gao Feng Liang Jie Worth a hundred trillion yuan Doing things in such a low profile His subordinates are extremely impressed. Young master This is an order issued by the chairman of the jianghu Chamber of Commerce. Such as abstinence to return home Subordinates are supposed to present this thing. Young master You have seen it. All right, stand down. Yeah. Who is so unvirtuous? Littering The richest man The experiment failed this time. It's Qianxue's fault. Let a poor beggar run in. And ask the richest man to give Qianxue another chance Lu Chen, what are you doing here? I live here. Why can't I be here? A poor beggar If you pick up the garbage, you can pick it up. Don't wish. Dare to talk nonsense in front of Boss Su. You really have a pig brain. But I'm kind enough to remind you Where's Wu Wanjin? He doesn't live here anymore. You don't have to wait for nothing. I advise you. Leave early Du Cheng, you poor beggar. How do you know the things of the richest man? And ask the richest man to give thousand fathom another chance. If you're not tired, Just wait. Deer, warm snow. Today, I went to ask someone from the jianghu Chamber of Commerce for an account. I'm afraid he's in danger. You need to go quickly. Jianghu Chamber of Commerce That's a big tone. Du Chen You are a stupid beggar With a fake invitation. Come on. Attend the teacher worship banquet of my Lord Su Qianxue and Lord Hu Wanjin. I was kind enough to kick you out. And you don't appreciate it. You are still good at sitting in the seat I prepared for my master. Let me fail as a teacher. From now on You and I are even. Don't let me see you again. Su Xianxue If Hu Wanjin hadn't come over again and again today, please. I wouldn't do it at all. To this stage of development You brought this on yourself. have eyes but fail to see How dare you talk to a poor beggar? Boss Su is the youngest president of the 10 billion Group. Minister Hu Wanjin, the richest man in the division building. It's a story from the business community. And you personally ruined Mr. Su's future. Somebody kill this crazy beggar on the spot. The life of a beggar Jianghu Chamber of Commerce still doesn't take a look at it. Calculate The life of a stinky beggar It's nothing to me. Huh Break up the field Ah, let's go. Let's go. It's a pity for a business elite. Boss Su, we can't just let it go. The most urgent task at present First go to the capital, the first villa in Qinghai. Be lucky with heaven and virtue. Ask the Lord of the capital for forgiveness Honor heaven and wish Su Qian, it seems that we will meet again soon. Ah, Luan Xue I don't know what your dad thinks. Fang Shaogui is the rich second generation of Fang Group. Have been chasing you. Your dad But let you marry a poor beggar who came back from abroad. It's a toad that eats swan meat. This is my best friend Lin Qiunan. Usually be outspoken. That's what you say. You don't mind. What, am I wrong? Luan Xue is the most beautiful woman in Jinghai. How many rich families want to pursue her? Because you're a poor beggar. Yo This is not a poor beggar who made a big fuss about Mr. Su's teacher's feast. Lu Shen, the master of the gang. Dare to make a fuss about President Su's teacher worship banquet. But he won't even get back the $10 million loan from the jianghu Chamber of Commerce. To let the warm snow beg on my head Let me ask for help. What's going on? Jianghu will owe you money. This works well. I asked that kid in Qijiang Lake to transfer the money to you. Lu Chen, have you had enough of your big talk? If my dad hadn't taken the engagement and forced me to marry you, Do you think I am the president of Lee's Group? Can you look up to a poor beggar like you? Its rivers and lakes are rivers. The underground king of the sea is worth tens of billions. Its assets are no worse than that of President Su. A commercial giant like this The bearers of the underworld It is also something that a small role like you can dictate. But you didn't see Just get down on your knees and please me. Yo, so lively. Who dares to ask for debt on the site of our jianghu Chamber of Commerce? Don't you want to live? Ah! Who dares to ask for debt on the site of our jianghu Chamber of Commerce? Don't you want to live? Ah! Boss Sun is the boss of our Fang Group. We met at President Su's teacher worship banquet. Give your brother a face. Pay back the debt owed by the Li family. Brother he, your face can be given by your brother. About the 10 million payment. No one can come. Good morning to hear that your president is both talented and good-looking. Extraordinary temperament See you today. It really lives up to its reputation Drink this wine. 10 million of things. Always talking about that Mr. Sun Do your brother a favor. Or forget the wine. Dude, hey. It's not that your brother doesn't give you face. What exactly is the relationship between you and this Li Nuanxue? It's worth fighting with our quack chamber of commerce. Qijiang Lake belongs to my family. Son of a bitch. How dare you be so arrogant? Jianghu Chamber of Commerce is just one of the companies my father bought. The smallest amount of money Qi Jianghu is not even enough to give me a watchdog. Ouch. Isn't this Li's beggar chasing his son-in-law? At the teacher worship banquet of President Su You made a splendor. Why are you in the place where I meet in the world? It's a shrunken tortoise. I'm afraid to talk. I'm scared. Hey, hey. You poor beggar. Don't you dare fight back. This is the territory of my quack chamber of commerce. On my turf. I can kill you in a minute. When did the jianghu Chamber of Commerce become your territory? Why haven't I heard of it? Lu Chen, you are crazy. How dare you have the greatest underground power in Jinghai? The jianghu Chamber of Commerce is wild in front of it. If you want to die, Don't pull me and Nan Xue. Nan Xue is not me. No. To help you is the fault of this poor beggar. We are all respectable people. Dare not offend the Jianghu Chamber of Commerce. He is the only poor beggar who dares to offend. The underground kings of Jinghai and the men of jianghu adults Don't fold it. I drink this wine. Snow Manager Sun, I can drink this wine. But the $10 million owed by my Li family And I hope you can keep your word. Ah, ha. Well, now that the wine has been drunk, I can barely spare you, you useless beggar. The offense of my husband just now Boy, if you want to get out alive, Sit obediently See how I play with your wife. Brother Fang, please persuade Manager Sun. Are you just watching warm snow being bullied? What can I do? He is the general manager of the Jianghu Chamber of Commerce. Standing behind is the all-powerful Qi Jianghu. It's all the fault of this poor beggar Find him to solve it by himself. Go up to the side Ha ha ha Uh, uh, uh. Dare to touch my woman. Yeah Dare to touch my woman. Poor beggar, how dare you hit me? Do you know who I am? I don't care who you are. I'll tell you. Pay the money back immediately today. Otherwise, no one can protect it. Lu Chen, you are crazy. How dare you go to the jianghu chamber of commerce General Manager of the Chambers of Commerce Still want to get back that 10 million of the arrears. You are a poor beggar with one life. Don't you dare hit me. Not only can you not get the money you owe You have to get down on your knees. Watch me play with your wife. Beg me to forgive you. Take the warm snow and leave. I'll take care of this. What are you waiting for? Let's go. You are a poor extreme. Will beat Sun Zu in jianghu. People will die. If we don't go, we can't get out of here. Want to go Too late. Somebody. Farmers, beggars, you're done. Today, even if the king is here. I can't save you. I told you to take some brothers to Li's house. Bring me that old hair from Li Wanshan. Dare to fight against my jianghu Chamber of Commerce. Tonight, let the Li family be famous in Jinghai as Boss Su. Boss Sun It's my Li family's fault tonight. The Li family doesn't want 10 million of the arrears. Now I know it's too late to apologize. Against my jianghu Chamber of Commerce. No one can walk out of here alive. Later, I will be in front of your father and this beggar husband. Play with you well. Do you dare to do that? Lu Chen, you're crazy. Don't you dare die. Don't you dare beat General Manager Sun at the jianghu Chamber of Commerce. You're hitting me in the face many times. The last person who did this in the jianghu Chamber of Commerce. It is already three feet taller than the tomb grass. You are going to kill Lu Chennan Xuan and the Li family. You're gonna get me killed, too. Lu Cheng, I know you meant well to come here tonight. But you should never hit Manager Sun. He is the general manager of the Jianghu Chamber of Commerce. He works for Qi Jianghu. It's not something my little Li family can afford to offend. So you can find a chance to get out. Look at Jinhai. Never come back. Don't worry. Nanxue Li's family won't fall down. The general manager of a mere Golden Harvest Chamber of Commerce And it deserves to be in front of me. Calculate. The poor beggar knelt before me now and apologized to me. I can consider not alerting my boss, President Qi. Boss Sun Our Fang Group has nothing to do with your family. Please let me go. What are you doing in the morning? It's too late to leave now. President of the jianghu Chamber of Commerce, right? Yeah You're screwed. You're done. Let our president Qi know what happened tonight. It's not as simple as the downfall of the Li family. Lu Chen, do you know what you're doing? You are a poor beggar who can only pick up garbage. Can you afford to offend the murderous Qi Jianghu? Shut up Hey, president. Hey Miss Su Please Yeah Hey What? You will be beaten up in the world. What's the difference between this and taking a shit on my neck? You wait for me. I'll be right there. Let's see who is so arrogant. Yeah It's over. President Qin of the jianghu Chamber of Commerce is coming. Go inside, old man. Yeah Old man, look at your choice of good son-in-law. Hit me for a while in the territory of my jianghu Chamber of Commerce. I'll show you how to play with your daughter. Sun Lianqiu, please let me go. Let me let this old thing go. You can also take off your clothes obediently Ask your beggar husband to kneel down again. Helplessly watching you serve me to satisfaction I can think about letting this old thing go. You can also spare the Li family once. Ah! Don't take it off, do you? Take off Ha ha ha I'll give you a chance, too. Get down on your knees now. Apologize to Shun. And then give the prize. Guys, did I hear that right? The beggar asked me to get down on my knees. And asked me to get out of the jianghu Chamber of Commerce. Who do you think you are? You think you're my boss. President Underground King Qi? The president said, how could it be on you beggar? I just discussed business with President Qi. I heard that someone is making trouble in the jianghu Chamber of Commerce. Just came to have a look. I didn't think it was you. President Su, what are you doing here? Du Chen, you poor beggar are not very capable. This product is quite capable. Even Qijianghu, the underground king of Jinghai, dares to mess with him. I think you're really bored. Lu Chen, you are desperate now. If you will ask me for mercy, If I'm in a good mood, maybe I can intercede for you. a dog trying to catch mice -- too meddlesome put one's finger into another's pie Here you are Well, I'd like to see if Mr. Su will help you without us. Who else in Jinhai can save you? Just wait and see how miserable you will die. Hey President Qi will be here soon. No matter what tricks you play, You and Li Jiaquan will be destroyed. Who doesn't want to die? Dare to touch the ground on my age. Huh What's the young master doing here? Made these bastards offend the Lord. Hey, president. The Li family supplied us with 10 million goods. As a result, I refused their request for payment this time. I didn't expect this woman. And his beggar husband. Unexpectedly came to our jianghu chamber of commerce to make trouble. And hit me. President Xu is not like this. There is absolutely no problem with that 10 million of the goods. He just wants to take advantage of his power. Make some disgusting hidden rules. This dog lackey Even the old ruffian of a teenager dares to play the game. That's trying to kill me. Master Lu, a word. The whole young master of the Qing Dynasty is going to shake. The president of Beijing Hanjianghu Chamber of Commerce This kind of boy is nothing. It's over. It's over. President Qi is angry. Lu Chen, why do you do good things every time It's all like this. Ah, President Qi. Could you please leave us alone? You're both dead. I said, President Qi. Boss Su, I think this man is very arrogant. Why don't you give him some pain first? You two, get down on your knees to President Qi. Beg President Qi to spare your lives. You two, get down on your knees to President Qi. Beg President Qi to spare your life. I'll go. Sun Liancheng, president. I asked you to come to work It's for me to make money. Not for you to hit my little boy. run amuck Bully men and women Yes, it is. What the president said was You take this little right I gave you. Start messing around, right? you This is to damage the reputation of jianghu Chamber of Commerce in a harmonious society. What is the corporate culture of jianghu Chamber of Commerce? win people by virtue good I'll tell him today. What do you mean by virtue? What did I tell your wife? Make you Bones. I told you to block it. Make you dare to hide. I was wrong, the president, policeman Sun. You've been expelled from my quack meeting now. Now run to Boss Li and ask for his forgiveness. Tell him to get out of here. Yes Boss Li, I was wrong. I have a low opinion of others. I have eyes without pearls. Please spare my life. Spare me a cheap life. Boss Li is really sorry. The company is big. There are all kinds of birds. This dog thing has upset you. I, Qijia Lake, Express my deep apologies It's all right, President Xu. You're quite welcome Why don't you get out of here? Li Menxian What kind of scary husband did you find? Fuck off Boss Li The 10 million owed by the jianghu Chamber of Commerce to the Li family. I'll arrange to call you right away. I'll call you another 10 million. This 10 million is my compensation to the Li family. Are you satisfied? yeah. Is this still the legendary famous rider? Underground king When is riding jianghu so easy to talk about? Since riding the rivers and lakes and seeing the land sink. There is a great change in attitude. Does that mean we're all wrong? Warm snow, this time. You have fought hard for us, the Li family. 20 million of the reparations from the jianghu Chamber of Commerce have arrived. What's the use? The good cabbage was arched by a pig. Blind for nothing, such a nice girl like me. The beautiful president of Li's Group Marry a poor beggar Lu Shen and his jianghu boss have always been unreasonable. run amuck Is a famous underground king of Jinghai. Why do you think he changed his temper yesterday? A rare compensation was given. Is it possible Did you see the fear of Jijianghu by this woman before? How am I supposed to know? He is the grand president of Qi University. Worth tens of billions I am the poor beggar in your eyes How will I know Is that also used to ask That must be Fang's missing hand. Fang Shao has a big family and a great career. Then President Qi had to give Fang a little less face. You're right. That's when I called President Qi in advance. Otherwise, Not only Uncle Li Even the warm snow is dangerous. It's really shameless. there is none under heaven to equal him I don't know who ran so fast yesterday. Think of yourself as a pussy at that time. What are you talking about? How dare you say that? I can't even help warm snow. Always know how to get into trouble. You almost killed this Li Jia and warm snow. That's right, Lao Li, hurry up and get this beggar out of here. Let warm snow divorce him. Hurry up to make room for Fang Shao Mom and Dad are right. You can take a horse to the water but you cannot make him drink He and I are not from the same world. I am now the new president of our Lee Group. And he is a poor beggar from abroad. A man like him who knows nothing about heaven and earth The speed of causing trouble. Sooner or later, it will kill our Li family. Ah, Nanxue deer. It's a little impulsive to do things. But that's for your own good. Divorce is not to be mentioned again. Huh Brother Fang, you have helped me so much this time. Come on, let's buy you dinner. Yeah. Hey Why don't you hurry up with the deer? Young master, I'm Qi Jianghu. Are you free now? What happened yesterday was an oversight during the summer vacation. I deserve to die. Please give me a chance to make amends. I prepared food and wine at the Garden Hotel of Jinhai Bank. Apologize to you face to face. You do know President Qin. Maybe he still respects you. It seems that your identity as a poor beggar is not simple. Things are getting more and more interesting President Hahaqi You are so unauthentic. Even if you come to have tea with me, I don't know if you will tell me. In this way, today's consumption is on me. President Shen, please have a seat. Hey You are Ye Fan, president of Jinhai Bank. How dare I bother you? No matter how busy I am, I can't help coming to see your distinguished guest. Oh, laugh! laugh! Father Chen heard that you registered with Li's daughter. One cannot live without money in China. I want 10 billion dollars of pocket money in the company's financial account. Hey, where are the poor beggars? This is not where you stinking beggar can come. Get out of here. If you disturb the distinguished guests inside, You can't afford 10. Get out of here. Hey You don't understand people, do you? I told you to get out, didn't you hear me? This is the Garden Hotel of Jinghai Bank. Guests who come here to spend money They are all rich when they start out in millions. How dare you, a poor beggar, come here to join the fun? Blind your dog's eyes Worth millions is a big deal. How do you know I can't afford it? Huh You poor beggar have been arrested. Look at the poor look of you in rags. Can you take out 100 yuan? I'm telling you, poor beggars. This is a five-star luxury hotel. The cheapest banquet here costs 10,000 yuan. Look in the mirror before you talk big. Look at your own poverty. Ha. Two things with eyes but no beads What a dog's eye to look down upon others Are you sure you don't want to investigate Who's stopping me here? Hey, who are you scolding? You don't have to ask to know that you can't afford a five-star hotel. Listen carefully. Get out of here and die. Young master, you have arrived at Jijiang Lake. The hotel you chose What a big shelf. What about me now? It's right below the hotel you booked. Within 3 minutes If I don't see you, The jianghu business president will not have to do it. No, yes, yes. I'll be right there. Ah, President Qi. Who is this calling? A phone call from a big shot I made a special apology to him today. These blind dogs. Ah, President Qi snubbed your distinguished guest. It is my hotel that is not well served. In this way, I will go with you. To apologize to this distinguished guest. Okay, come on. Continue to install the king of Xinghai Underground Chairman of jianghu Chamber of Commerce 7 Do you know a jianghu boss from a poor beggar like you? President Qi is worth tens of billions of dollars. be of noble character and high prestige Everyone admires And you're just a poor beggar. It is also worthy to know President Qi. Don't you want to go into the hotel and have a look? Ah, ah, ah. Get through me. I'll let you step in the door. Take a look at the hotel lobby from a distance Ah, ha. Oops. Shit, you'll know in three minutes. Do I know Qi Jianghu or not? Oops. President Qi, there is a special elevator for our hotel. Very fast Don't ride it. Well, I think you're poor as long as you want to stay. He is the boss of Qin Jianghu. Why didn't you say so? Our president of Jinhai Bank came to accompany you to apologize. Don't talk to this poor man with no money. Let's fight before we talk. It's backwards. Which one of you dares to do it? President Hello, Governor. What are you doing? You two. Governor, there is a stinky beggar here. Affect the image of our five-star hotel Brother Wang and I are going to kick his ass. Yes The beggar doesn't even have 100 yuan. Dare to play scoundrels in front of our hotel. And force your way in. I think he's in a hurry to go in and pick up leftovers. You stinking beggar. Dare to come. Our Regal Garden Hotel under Jinhai Bank You two, get rid of him. Don't delay me in greeting distinguished guests. It's Alipay. 10 billion dollars 10 billion dollars The president of the jianghu Chamber of Commerce said hello to the young master. The president of the jianghu Chamber of Commerce greets the young master. Get up Yes Fuck you A dog with eyes but no beads You also stopped my distinguished guests at the Qijianghu banquet. Who gave you the guts? My distinguished customers of Jinhai Bank dare to stop it. You have a lot of nerve. If you don't want to do it, get out of here. You two apologize to this gentleman quickly. Excuse me, sir. It's all a misunderstanding. Misunderstanding of this. This poor beggar is really an honored guest invited by President Qi. It's still here. It's not big or small. You have nothing to say here. Offended Chairman Qi's distinguished guest. You two can't afford it for the rest of your lives. Excuse me, sir. I'm going to fire them both. Calm down. You two are fired. Don't have to come tomorrow. This distinguished guest Welcome to our Jinhai Bank Garden Hotel. Please come inside. Master Lu, this is Shen Fugang, president of Jinhai Bank. The guard at the door treats you like a beggar. I propose a toast to you for this cup of tea. To make amends for you. What Fang Group wants a loan of 1 billion? No. Pass. No one can do it. Master Lu is such a Fang Group. Poor internal management The deficit of funds is too large. Increase foreign capital and shares At first glance, it is obvious that the money is going to run away. Hello, father-in-law. Deer, get back here. Fang Shao from Fang's Group is good friends with your wife. They want to increase their capital and shares abroad. Give priority to the quota to us. This is a good opportunity to make a fortune. Fang's father-in-law Don't worry about this. Wait till I get back. sorry President Shen, I have some personal business. I'll go back first. Young master, let me take you back. Ah, the young master is not well entertained today. How offended? If you don't mind. I'll be the driver. Take you back in person. OK This is Shen Huang. The God of Wealth of Jinghai Shen Huang of Jinghai Bank To be a driver for Lu Chen, a poor beggar. How is that possible? Lu Chen, really? The driver who was driving just now Is Vice President Shen of Jinghai Bank. Why would he send it to you? No, you got the wrong guy. Hey, don't go. Lu Chen, what secret are you hiding? I opened the door for you just now. It is the underground king of Jin Haitang riding rivers and lakes. The driver is the president of Jinghai Bank. What kind of identity can be used to use this qualification? It's getting more and more interesting. I must find out who you are. Uncle Li, my relationship with warm snow It is not too much to say that she is a male best friend. This time, the Fang family increased its foreign capital and shares. I will give priority to the quota to your Li family. Ha ha ha Uncle Fang Shao was right about you. Uncle Li is flattered. With my relationship with warm snow We are a family. Your Majesty, I have made up my mind I am willing to contribute 50 million to subscribe for shares Fang's Group is now in a serious deficit. It is possible to go bankrupt at any time The purpose of their wave of capital increase and holding is to run away with the money. You can't believe it. Lu Chen, don't be incompetent. I can't see anyone better than you. Other people are kind enough to help us. Lu Chen, don't be incompetent. I can't see anyone better than you. Other people are kind enough to help us. This is the welfare that Fang gives less warm snow. Told us in advance because of his relationship with warm snow. Don't be ungrateful. The fawn is jealous. If you don't have the money, I'll charge you 2 million. You said it wasn't a matter of money. When I was having dinner with President Shen, He told me himself. You fart That President Shen will treat you to dinner. You don't take a piss and take a picture of yourself. You poor beggar. Dressed in rags and rags That President Shen is blind. I'm going to treat you to dinner. Just stood up to the straight driver. Sure enough, he is the president of Gold Bank. So Fang's Group may be really dying. What I said is true. Even if Lu Chen doesn't know a good heart, it doesn't matter. But I'm asking you Later Can you stop saying such funny things? It would make me feel humiliated. You are a beggar picking up garbage abroad. Fang Shao is the son of Fang Group. Who are you to judge people? I just can't see us the Li family get rich. No one can stop us today. Invest in Fang's Group You get out of here. Okay, you don't know the difference between inside and outside one by one. I don't even believe what I say. Sooner or later, I will regret today's decision. Ah, Lu Chen. Jin Haixin opened a nice bar. Come on, let's buy you a drink. By the way, I'll show you. What can you thank me for? I'm just a poor beggar in your eyes. Hey, hey. Who said that if you hadn't reminded me I will subscribe for 10 million of the shares of Fang's Group. So, Does it count as helping me get that 10 million back? Do you think they should buy you a drink? You just trust me. Of course I believe you. let's go Lu Chen, this is the best bar in Jinghai. What would you like to drink today? Make yourself at home, sister. My treat. Wu Group is impacted by overseas consortia Wu Yusheng has a character that would rather compromise than yield. Refuse to compromise When they both lose, Is that we mobilize funds. A great opportunity to annex Wu Group It's Boss Su. I'll arrange it right away. Qinghai Wu Group is my uncle's company. Listen to Su Qianxue's tone In the head of my uncle's house Wu Yunshu inherited the president of the company. Looks like that little fart bug grew up, too. Aunt, my brother robbed my toy. Don't let me play. Xiao Chen, you're a boy. Take responsibility. Give the toy to your sister To the kicked worm. Hey. You said you were my childhood sweetheart. Is one of my few wives. I can't stand by and watch The prince was destroyed by the woman Su Qixue. Where are you pinching? What are you looking at? Be careful. I'll tell warm snow. Lu Chen, it's you. You poor beggar. It's really hard for us, Mr. Su. Where is our Sue? Where do you show up like a dog skin ointment? It's shameless. Wishful thinking Are you out of your mind? Are you delusional? You poor beggar still refuse to admit it. Our boss Su But the president of Su's Group, which is worth tens of billions of dollars And you are the beggar son-in-law of a little Li family. Don't dream. Is it worth tens of billions of dollars? things seldom seen are strange Hey, I said, why are you in such a hurry to leave? It turns out that there is a young lady beside me. You poor beggar. It's not easy to be a son-in-law in the Li family, isn't it? You're the lady. Your whole family is a lady. Hey, I'm the daughter of Lin Group. Hey. Boss Su Lin's Group what a shabby small company Never heard of it. Lu Chen, it seems that it was the best time for me to renounce my marriage with you. The right decision. You've only been away from home for a few days. He came out and ran away with the little fox. Trash with no money and no taste like you You'll never be worthy of me. You'll never be worthy of me. Go Yeah Two psychopaths Yes. It seems that Su Qianxue is ready to fight against Wu Group. It happened to be in this confrontation. Rub the spirit of Su Qianxue hard. Let him know how ignorant he is. Lu Chen You were engaged to President Su of Su's Group. What, is that weird? That's the youngest ten billion president of Daxia Group. The most dazzling star of the business community in Daxia I didn't expect such an excellent President Su. I can't believe I had an engagement with you. I don't know if your wife Li Nuanxue knows. What would it be like? He is still the brightest star in the business world in Daxia. A little money. Nearly ten thousand, so... Eyes above the top It seems that there are not many people in the business community in this summer. Xiao Qian Lu Chen You said 10 billion was a penny. I don't know if you're playing dumb or really stupid. It's just tens of billions. It's not even a month's pocket money for me. You can't measure my identity. It's just tens of billions. It's not even a month's pocket money for me. You can't measure my identity. Lu Chen Are you really going to be on Li Nuanxue's tree? Hang yourself. Yeah Let's look at fate. What do you think of me? You're not afraid like this. Does your best friend Li Nuanxue know? Li Nuanxue doesn't like you at all. So are their families. Unlike my sister, me. Although three years older than you, But I do know that it hurts. And I like you very much. Drink. Alas Lu Chen drank too much tonight. I don't want to go home. Will you take me with you? Ah, hiss. Where is this? Okay. Yeah, the villa. Lu Chen is fine. You're living in a villa. This is Fengtian Villa. Which Fengtian other courtyard Lu Chen heard before that you were in Su. At the teacher worship banquet of Qianxue's president, the richest man in Daxia. There was a scene. Now you take me to his mansion in Jinghai. Lu Chen, you are really going to kill me. Hu Jing, the richest man in the building, has a noble status. He wants to destroy me, Lin's Group. As simple as crushing an ant. Don't worry yet. This villa was given to me by my men. Lu Chen, do you have a fever? This mansion is worth more than 5 billion yuan. It is the most expensive mansion of the richest man in the summer in Jinghai. My Lin family is tied to the Li family. Even if you sell it, you can't afford it. Unless Mr. Hu Anjin, the richest man in Daxia, spoke in person. Otherwise, who would give away the other courtyard of Fengtian? Oh, I see. Lu Chen, you can't see that I'm drunk. You want to lie to me and tease me? The richest man Please give Qianxue another chance. Qianxue must abide by the etiquette of master and apprentice. No more offense. Yeah I Yeah The richest man Please give Qianxue another chance. Qianxue must abide by the etiquette between master and apprentice I won't let anyone offend your dignity again. This woman is really persevering. This is Qianxue's gift for the richest man. It is a thousand-year-old jade handed down by the Su family. Please accept the richest man. After all, in Qianxue's heart My lord is already my master. Am I blinded? How come the figure in the window of the richest man's villa Kind of like Lu Chen and that slut fox. Are you really not kidding? You said this is the mansion of the richest man in Daxia. And said your men gave it to you. Keep guessing. Are you Keep your voice down What are you doing Didn't expect it. The youngest president of Daxia Group The most dazzling star of the business community in Daxia Su Qianxue is sometimes turned away from the door. Huh Lu Chen I'm more and more interested in you now. Don't worry about him. Our blow jobs are worth a lot of money. Liu Chan I'm drinking a lot now. But they still want to irrigate me I'm dying. Where are you now? I'm in the Golden Cabinet Room of Qinghai Bank Garden Hotel. Yeah. Okay. I see You wait for me there. I'll be right there. Mm-hmm. Come on. Come on. Nan Xue Have another drink. Our classmates finally got together. You have to give me this face, right? I'll do it. You can do whatever you want. I really can't drink anymore. Nan Xue Today It is a great day for me to be promoted to general manager of jianghu Chamber of Commerce. If you have any difficulties in Lee's Group in the future You can call me as an old classmate. I can do it for you. But you can't refuse to give face to this glass of wine today, are you? I'll drink this drink for him. Who are you? what are you? Who are you qualified to come in and drink the wine for others? Pretending to be a scholar comes at a price. Introduce yourself I am the husband of warm snow. My name is Lu Chen Oh. So you are the beggar son-in-law of the Li family. Li Nuanxue's loser husband. Oh, you really look like a beggar suit. Ouch. When is the top five-star hotel in Qinghai? It is also a poor beggar who picks up garbage to break in. Waiter, where are your security guards? How did you open the door? Put all the cats and dogs in. Once the campus beauty of Qinghai University Now the president of the first beautiful woman in Qinghai Actually married a poor beggar. What a flower. Stuck it in cow dung. When I was in college, Li Nuanxue is arrogant and arrogant. Reject the pursuit of Yu Shao many times And now I found a beggar to be my husband. Hey, we classmates. Then he lost all his face. Huh Yes This gentleman. This is no place for you to come. Please go out You poor beggar can get out of here. But your wife is staying with me tonight. Get out of here. Okay. Dogs don't get in the way. Beggar, how dare you push? I'm not. Tweet, hide and feed the dog. Boy, you want to die. Do you know who Yu Shao is? Yu Shaoke is the new general manager of the jianghu Chamber of Commerce. In Jinhai, it is under one person and above ten thousand people. Don't you dare to beat me less. That is the face of the Chamber of Commerce. I think you're tired of living. Good Jianghu Chamber of Commerce But it was founded by the underground king Wang Qijiang Lake. The boss of Qijiang Lake is worth tens of billions of dollars in Jinghai. Cover the sky with only one hand Yu Shao can serve as the general manager under his old man. It can be said that it is below one person and above thousands of people. Don't you dare mess with Yu Shao You're dead meat The boy is scared now. Leave your beautiful wife with me for one night. I can forgive you tonight. Ignorance. Poor beggar, don't you dare hit me. I am the general manager of the jianghu Chamber of Commerce. I want you tonight. See with one's own eyes Your wife is played with by me bit by bit. Your backer is the world, isn't it? Do you know Even if he was here, You have to get down on your knees and talk to me. Qijiang Lake Get to Jin Gui-cho, Jinhai Garden in five minutes. Otherwise, the Qi family will be removed from Qinghai tonight. Hello, Qijianghu You have five minutes. Rush to the Jin Gui Room of Jinhai Bank Garden Hotel Otherwise, the name of Jin Hai will be repeated tonight. The man was evacuated. Immediately order people to clear the road Rush to Jinhai Garden Hotel immediately It's the president. Lu Chen, you are really good at pretending. Take out your phone and pretend to say a few words. Will be able to turn the Golden Sea boss The Underground King, my boss, Qi Jianghu, was called over. I also want the Qi family to be removed from Jinhai. Ha! what kind of thing are you? I really don't know if I live or die. Hum Qi jianghu boss It is also known to poor beggars like you. Lu Shen, how dare you? And I want the Qijianghu boss to come and kneel down and talk to you. What kind of thing are you? There are three minutes left. Laugh at poor beggars You're pretending to be addicted, aren't you? You are the only one who should call President Qi. Now you kneel down and kowtow and beg for mercy. And get rid of the hand you just hit me. I can think about tonight. Do not disturb Chairman Qi, his old Xu Shao. You are so kind. The boy dared to scold President Qi. And asked President Qi to come and kneel down and talk to him. This is already a capital crime in Jinghai. Lu Chenyu is so generous and virtuous. Why don't you take the initiative to kneel? Give your wife to Yu Shao to play for two days as a token of gratitude Don't be ungrateful. And playing with you. You stinking beggar. You're dead meat Lu Chen, since you want to die, Then I'll do it for you. You just wait Bear the anger of President Qi. What son of a bitch called me at this time? Delayed the arrangement of Prince Lu. Do you want us to disappear in Jinhai tonight? Huh Hurry up and be sure to get it to the hotel in two minutes President Qi must be busy with other things at this time. I don't have time to answer my calls. Lu Chen Do you still dare to say that you called President Qi? How could he, a stinky beggar, have the phone name of President Qi? As the general manager of the jianghu Chamber of Commerce I can't even get through to President Qi. He is a beggar, even if he is lucky to have the phone number of the president. President Qi, as a business giant, And will never pay attention to the rubbish of this kind of society. Do you think it's possible Qi Jianghu, he can't take care of himself now. Is already on its way here. So there's no time to deal with you little fish and shrimp. Lu Chen Don't you dare to talk about President Qi. I really don't know whether to live or die. Where's the security guard at your hotel? Get him out of here. Dare to insult President Qi I don't think you'll see the sun tomorrow. When you die, Your wife, I'll be a good dog. Uh, uh... Poor beggar I'm dying. Dare to do it. Security. Security. Do you still want to do it? Is there anyone making trouble here? can't you see? Get someone out of here and waste your hands. I'll see who dares to do it. Ah! President, you're here. I just called you. What are you doing President, this poor beggar Talk nonsense in front of so many people Very disrespectful to you. It is said that you can only kneel to him when you are present. I was just about to teach this stupid boy a lesson. President You are the billionaire boss of Jinghai. The beggar is unexpectedly disrespectful to you I just want to die. What is the security guard still waiting for? Pull it out and scrap it. The killer is dying. Still here to claim credit. If you two get down on your knees now, If you kowtow and admit your mistake I might be able to keep you alive for two more years. apple sauce You son of a bitch. It was you who died in the end. Still talking hard. When your life is worse than death. Don't cry and beg me. Ha ha ha ha Just leave the poor beggar to me. Don't get your hands dirty. Blind your dog's eyes President, why did you hit me? You dare to mess with him. Do you know who he is? President of Jinhaijiang Lake Chamber of Commerce I've seen it in Qijiang Lake. Young master Young master Get up. Yeah. I promote you to general manager of the Chamber of Commerce. It's for you to make money for me. It's not for you to come, yes. Come here Dare to provoke Master Lu Even if I am the whole family It's hard to bear the consequences. Are you trying to get my whole family to suffer with you? And you do the math. Dare to mess with the young master. Damn it. Young master I'm so sorry. It is the discipline of subordinates. Wu Fang appeared Such two scum under his hands Master, what are they going to do with it? Young master, but he is my blind eye. I said I shouldn't look down on people. Insult you as a poor beggar Have a heart I told you so. You can't measure my identity. I don't want to see it again in Jinhai. These two men It's someone from here. Drag them both out of here. President You take care of things here first. I'm going to take my wife home. Young master, I'll have someone take you and your wife. It's hot It's hot Ah! Lu Chen, what did you do to me last night? You were drugged last night. I brought it back to you from the wine table. I carried you all the way to the house. What are you waiting for? You need to stop. It's over. It's over. We didn't use contraception last night. What if I get pregnant? I am the female president of Lee Group. Are you going to give birth to a poor beggar like you? I am the female president of Lee Group. Are you going to give birth to a poor man like you? No, I can't get pregnant so early. My company has a lot of things to take care of. Oops. It's not that easy to get pregnant I am a dead man in the catalogue. Replenish one pulse and wheeze Want to get pregnant easily It's not that simple. This is also the father of the richest man in the world. Insist on letting me go back. The reasons for inheriting hundreds of trillions of foreign family assets I really won't get pregnant. Don't worry I'll make you breakfast. What was that yesterday? Don't go to work today. Have a good rest Snow White is not good. Your father was beaten. Mom, don't cry yet. What's going on? Why did my dad get beat up? Internal mine explosion in Fang's Group Is about to face bankruptcy Fang Shao is bothering you and your father. Invest 200 million of the company's total funds Ran away. The four directors of our company know about it. To collect debts from your father. Your father was forced to make a loan. The money was not borrowed. And people got beat up. Mom, take it easy. What's my dad like now? I'll be right back. I'll go back with you. Oh, what should I do? Daddy Are you all right Dad, it's okay. Don't worry. Shen Lu, you're here. Dad, who did this to you? Warm snow, you're here. What are we going to do? Fang Shao ran away with the money we invested. That's all the money our company has. Boss Li Today, no matter what You have to give back our share of the money. Otherwise, we won't leave. To repay a debt God's honest truth You didn't say a word. Invest all the company's money. Now the other party rolls money and runs away. You're going to give us our money back. Pay back. I'm sorry. The subscriber you dialed is temporarily unable to get through. Please dial again later. Oops. Auntie, don't worry. I told you. Fang long, he is unreliable. You poor beggar, what are you doing in our house? Our family is now where it is today. You're happy. My daughter is the most beautiful woman in Jinghai. President of Lee Group Marry a worthless poor beggar like you My whole life is ruined. If I had married Fang Shao, Master Fang doesn't know how to run away with money at all. in the final analysis Our Li family is in such a state of distress as it is today. I blame you, a poor beggar. Okay? I've heard rumors for a long time. Boss Li married a beggar I didn't expect it to be so. The most important thing in marriage is that it is a perfect match. No wonder the Li family was reduced to such sky-high debts. Boss Li, because of your family problems. Cause a huge debt crisis to the company Jinghai Bank does not agree to lend you a loan now. The company is facing bankruptcy You have to give some of our directors an explanation. Qinghai Bank does not necessarily refuse to give us loans. General Manager Jiang, God of Wealth of Qinghai Bank, sent out the word. As long as our boss Li Willing to serve General Manager Jiang for a week Boss Jiang, he is still willing to lend money. Never Oh, boss Li. Now the Lee Group is in dire straits. This is not the time for you to pretend to be aloof. You said you were willing to sleep with that loser and beggar. General Manager Jiang of Jinghai Bank In Jinghai Bank, it is under one person and above ten thousand people. He is a famous leader in Jinghai. Jin Hai is recognized as the god of wealth. Isn't he better than a stinky beggar? Even Shen Fu, president of Jinhai Bank, You have to stand still in front of me. Be beaten to admit one's mistake What kind of general manager Jiang you're talking about? He doesn't deserve you. Presumptuous, you poor beggar are hopeless. Vice President Shen, President of Jinghai Bank Hold Jinghai meridian in hand The power of wealth is enormous. He is the god of wealth of Jinghai. You are a poor beggar Only the Li family superfluous son-in-law Who has the right to let such a big shot be beaten and punished? It's totally lawless. won 't listen to reason Hey Wu, don't worry. There is no need for Nanxue to come forward in this matter. I'll take care of it. Don't worry. I'll leave it to you. You are talking more and more out of tune. I need 200 million now. Can you get it out? You are a poor beggar. Our family, warm snow, marry you. Ruined my whole life, Mom. If you can lend 200 million yuan from Jinhai Bank To help the group through this crisis. Ha ha We can ignore the Li family's reckless behavior this time. You still expect him to borrow 200 million yuan. You see, Lao Li has been typed out. If we let this loser and poor beggar pass It is estimated that the Li family will have to collect his body. Hey Du Chen Don't worry about this. I made my own mistake. I will bear the consequences myself. You're my wife now. If anyone dares to bully you I will never rest assured. They can't measure my identity. I'm here to see Manager Jiang. Let's talk about the Lee Group loan. Talk about what? Manager Jiang has already given terms. Let Li Nuanxue wash clean. Open a good room and wait for Manager Jiang to talk. If you can't do it Just waiting for the Li family to go bankrupt. Don't make a mess here. Ha ha ha Don't you dare hit someone in Jianhai Bank. I'm Manager Jiang's assistant. Don't even think about this loan if you touch me. Just an assistant to the general manager Why are you pretending to be garlic in front of me? Let me tell you something. Even if Manager Jiang comes over, Beat him like a pig. Yes Who's making trouble there? Manager Jiang, you're here. It was him just now that Yang Yan tried to beat you into a pig's head. Who are you? Dare to do it in the office of the general manager of Qinghai Bank. You are still the first to have the guts to hit someone. You are the husband of Group President Li Nuanxue. You are the useless son-in-law of Li Nuanxue. Beggar husband You are Li Nuanxue, the loser and beggar husband. What do you think? Let your wife come and sleep with me for a week. Ha ha ha Now Manager Jiang is here. If you dare. You touch me again in front of him. Ha ha ha This kind of request will be raised more in the future. Fine It seems that you do not understand the seriousness of the matter. No one has dared to piss me off in front of me for a long time. You'd better give me an argument that I can listen to. Otherwise Lee's Group will go bankrupt today. good Then I'll give you a chance. Now take off your clothes. Run three laps around Jinhai Bank. Take care of the loan at the bottom. What about me? I can give you a chance to ask my father-in-law to forgive you. What a big tone Your father-in-law Li Wanshan saw me. Just like grandson met grandpa. Only he knelt in front of me and begged for my share. Let me ask him for forgiveness. What kind of thing are you? In that case, Then I'll just have to call President Shen. Huh It would be fine if you could call President Shen. If you can't call me, I'll let you know. What will happen in front of me? President Shen, what about me? Now in your Jinhai Bank General Manager Jiang's office Jiang, the general manager of your bank, has a good tone. Said it would make me pay the price. What? how dare he? Master Lu, I'm in the office. I'll be right there. Boy You think you can just say a few words with your cell phone. President Shen is an old man. Will you just walk in here and see you? What kind of person are you? You are still so rude to talk to President Shen. Don't say I didn't give you a chance. I'll give you three minutes. It's better to find someone to calm me down. If your wife Li Nuanxue doesn't come Then I'm sorry. The Lee Group will go bankrupt tonight. And I'll break your limbs. To get you out of my office Crawl out like a maggot It won't take three minutes at all. One minute is enough. Security guard Okay Now the last minute is almost up. It was you who obediently gave up. Or wait for me to give the order. Beat me to death. I'll see who dares. Ah! I'll see who dares. Governor, you're here. Come on, what's going on? The Li family is short of funds. The Li family beggar has a superfluous son-in-law. Come to my office. boast without shame And insisted that I give him a loan. And hurt my assistant boss. But you don't have to be angry. I will deal with this Li beggar right away. Clean him up. Let him know. Who is in charge in Jinhai? Offended our Jinhai bank. He is a poor beggar who can't afford it. President Shen, look at your men. That's a lot of authority. Hey, if you don't know, I thought that in the summer, It is your Jinhai Bank that has the final say. My father-in-law Seriously came to talk to him about the loan business. He hit my father-in-law. I won't mention it for the time being. He wants my wife to sleep with him. Only in this way can we talk about the loan with Lee's Group. What's wrong with letting your wife sleep with me? I think highly of you. I think highly of your bigger company. People like you have to put up with it. Stay aside and beg to watch. I just want to sleep with your first beautiful wife in Qinghai. Ha Slag It seems that your way of educating your men is not very good, right? Poor beggar, you pretend to be addicted, don't you? Hit me and don't talk. Speak so unkindly to me, President Shen. Governor, look at these. Master Lu, I am usually lax in discipline. To get his men to pop up. Such an outspoken son of a bitch. What is Li Wenxue? When did you find a background? Such terrible kung fu Get on your knees. Shh. You don't listen to me, either. Master Lu Calm down. What do you think we should do with this guy? So that you can be satisfied. What's the solution? I just told him that. But he didn't agree. So Only then did I have to ask President Shen to come down and solve it personally. The president asked me to run around the bank three times. Ah! Master Lu Master Lu, see if you can find another way. I'm a big man after all. After you asked me to do this, How can I stay in Jinhai in the future? Lu Shao Lu Xiao Do as Master Lu says. Offended Master Lu. You still want to stay in Jinhai. Do you know the consequences of offending Master Lu? Master Lu I'm so sorry. It's because of my lax management. Only then will there be such scum and offense. Now the problem has been solved. The play is all out. I am very satisfied with President Shen's solution. I'll arrange it. No, I personally arranged the loan for Lee's Group. A penny of 200 million You think I need it? Your bank gives me a loan. I came over today. I mainly want to see. When do you dare to hit my wife in the face? Yes. This 1000 billion For Master Lu, it's only a month's pocket money. Even if we Jinhai Bank emptied our assets, I dare not let you come for a loan. Yes, Lu Chen. Are you all right I'm fine. What can I do for you? I'm glad it's okay. I'm glad it's okay. You came back with a loan from Jinhai Bank. What do you say, General Manager Jiang promised to lend us money? They really didn't agree to lend. But this General Manager Jiang But promised to run naked around Jinhai Bank for three times. Apologize to my father-in-law and warm snow General Manager Jiang The magnificent general manager of Jinhai Bank How could you agree to run around the bank three times? I think it's clear that you don't dare to make a loan. Did you go around the outside and come back? Hello, Lu Chen. What time is it? You still want to talk big and lie to us. He Xue, you must divorce Lu Chen today. Mom, take it easy. Even Dad can't borrow money from Qinghai Bank. Lu Chen, he is just an ordinary man. How is it possible to take it? What about the 200 million high loan of Qinghai Bank? Boss Li General Manager Jiang has made it very clear. As long as you are willing to wait on General Manager Jiang for a week. The 200 million loan will come down soon. Our company will be saved. I hope Boss Li Be self-aware Put the overall situation of the company first. I didn't agree to ask for the 200 million loan from Jinhai Bank. That doesn't mean I will do something about the bankruptcy of Lee's Group. No, if you four want to take the money and go, No one will stop it now, huh? Joke At present, there are only 200 million loans from Xinghai Bank. To save the group. A poor beggar without a penny What right do you have to talk big here? You are really a frog in a well. Look at the sky, a skin out of shape. My identity is not the black market of ants like you. Bold in color You are a superfluous son-in-law of the Li family. Who have the right to talk to me like that? My Sun family has a fortune of over 10 million. He is also a famous family in Jinghai. Hum let the Li family Back from the dead For me It's just a trivial thing. And what I'm going to bring to Lee's Group today It's a $10 billion order. And a path of green clouds above the gospel Ten billion orders I said, you poor beggar. Are you out of your mind? Within 10 minutes of Hu Anjun, Send me a ten billion order to Jin Hai Li's villa. Yes, young master. What? Hu Wanjin? Did I hear you right? The poor beggar said The man he just called Is the richest man in Daxia, Lord Hu Wanjin. Ha ha I was told to go down and prepare ten billion orders for the Li family in Jinghai. I will personally deliver it to the young master. Yes Let's go, Lord Hu Wanjin of Jin Hai Li's family. It's my grandfather in the building. Worth more than 100 billion yuan Is it known to a beggar by his son-in-law? Li Wanshan, look at the good son-in-law you chose. Offended Jinhai Bank. Maybe there's a way to fix it. Offended Hu Wanjin, the richest man in Daxia. Your Li family and even the whole Lee Group Will be doomed forever. Crazy. Crazy. Lao Li, you married him to warm snow. I don't agree. What has he done to our Li family now? Deer. Can you change your problem of boasting? You have to go on like this. Who will divorce you again? I won't stop it. Li Wanshan, your son-in-law Lu Shen There is no clean universe. Lawlessness and forgetfulness Hu Wanjin, the richest man in Daxia Your Li family wants to die. I, the king of gold, don't want to die with you. Today I, the King of the Golden Sea, draw a clear line between you and the Li family. To warn Jin Hai Break its body waves Take advantage of net effect Sun Tzu is despicable. The value of conduct is 50 million lower than that of the Jinghai Sun family. Well-known Jinghai I would like to join hands with the Wangs Cut off his way of life After today, Lu Chen The name of your unknown life or death will spread throughout Jinghai. But For you, the beggar of the Li family, the bottom trash of your son-in-law. It is an honor that is hard to find in eight lifetimes. I, Jin Hai Liu family tens of thousands of families One hundred years of inheritance Today's reconsideration will cut off the road. My Jin Haixu family is also one of them. Hum, young man. You have to understand respect and inferiority, advance and retreat. The world is a dry stream. It's not for you, a poor boy, to change. The money that Lee Group owes you. I'll find a way to return it. But Lu Chen is the milk of Li Nuanxue. Which one of you dare to touch him? You have to ask me if Li Nuanxue agrees. My Jin Hai Li family has assets of more than 100 million. Decades of heyday Today I agree to kill the Li family from the beggar's son-in-law Mom, the directors of the four major groups collectively attacked. Want to cut off the road of living on the land If we, the Li family, want not to be implicated. Travel self-protection Can only cut off his way of life. Mom. Hey He Hu Wanjin is just the guardian of a big summer. It's worth a mere hundreds of billions. How do you know for sure? I'm not the one who bowed Hu Wanjin. How can you be sure? I can't make your family go up. You guys are only worth tens of millions. Also want to touch my life. Even you deserve it. Die to the point of death You are such a beggar son-in-law. Don't you dare talk hard here. The richest man in Daxia is no more than hundreds of billions. Who gave you the courage to say such a thing? The richest man Where are you, you useless beggar? A phone call can come right away. Go on call That's you. Such a social underclass who has never seen the world before. Rubbish will also say Jiang of Jinhai Bank always runs naked around the bank. If you apologize to him, He doesn't even know. What kind of existence is that? You ants are really blind. Don't know the real dragon. If Wan Jin arrives at Li's house within ten minutes today, You're going to If Lord Hu Wanjin could come here today, I will kneel to your face and kowtow to you. Call you ancestor. Within an hour, Lord Hu Wanjin appeared here. We all knelt down to teach your ancestors. But if Hu within an hour Lord Anjin didn't show up. Your wife Li Nuanxue Must be handed over to General Manager Jiang of Jinhai Bank. Play for a week In exchange for the 200 million loan. Warm snow, just listen to your mother. Mom's not gonna hurt you. You divorce the beggar as soon as possible. Take care of that boss Jiang. We Li Jiacai can be saved. Do three for the big shot. It's better than being cheaper than this poor beggar. Mom, I will never divorce Lu Chen. As long as I pay off the money the company owes you? You won't embarrass Lu Chen any more. Okay, I'm here. No one can force you. Don't do anything stupid. Be happy for a moment Get to your house in a minute. If you can't make it. Don't be the richest man in this hero. you What? That's impossible. General Manager Jiang ran naked. This General Manager Jiang But promised to run naked around Jinhai Bank for three times. Apologize to my father-in-law and Nan Xue This is impossible Lao Wang, what's going on? Who called you? Yeah, tell me if there's anything you can do. My nephew who just worked at Jinghai Bank. Call me. Tell me General Manager Jiang is recruiting this bank to run naked. What? That's impossible. Lao Wang, did you hear wrong? It's a big story. Strong general manager of Jinhai Bank I don't know what kind of stimulation. Streaking outside the bank. It's an exaggeration. Boss Qiang really ran naked. He is just a beggar of the Li family chasing after him. What the Li family can't do. How could he let the general manager of Jinghai Bank run naked? To apologize this This is impossible Gu Wanjin, the richest man in Daxia, has it. Ah! The speed of driving hands Lord Hu Wanjin is here. Lord Hu Wanjin What are you doing here? Villain Li Wanshan, the head of the Li family in Jinghai, respectfully welcomed Hu's richest man. The Li family will be polite. What were you just doing? The richest man The Li family was cheated of their assets. Face bankruptcy I waited for four people to come to Li's house to collect debts. Who knows this Li family has a superfluous son-in-law? He made rude remarks I don't know whether to be superior or inferior. Offend our superiors Or even uttered words to insult the building You are the richest man. We persuaded each other again and again But he got worse. act recklessly and care for nobody So I waited for the four of us to agree. Cut off his way of life Drive out of Jinghai To save the utility The richest man Why did you suddenly visit Li's house today? Is it you? A lot of nerve. How much does the family worth of the four of you add up? Dare to break the road of life. Do you know who he is? Hu Wanjin, the richest man in Daxia, met the young master. See you, young master. Young master Get up The richest man What's going on? It is too late to belong to the genus. And ask the young master to punish or not. No, you're just in time. If you had come earlier How can I see this golden sea? The small families are so majestic. And touch my life. good Fine It is the four of you who want to cut off the young master's life. The family of the four of you won't have to exist. Haha, young woman, I was wrong. My Wang family has been rooted in Jinghai for a hundred years. Inheritance is not easy to beg you. Spare my Wang family. Beg me for something that doesn't have eyes. You're begging the wrong guy. Master Lu Your adult doesn't remember the villain's mistakes. You spared my Wangs. I was wrong, young master. Give us a break. Young master, forgive me. Young master, give us a break. I'll give you a break. Who threatened to cut me off just now? Who threatened to let my wife sleep with someone else? Now I still have the face to beg for mercy. I'll never see you again. Is to take them away. Master Lu Give us a break. Master Lu submitted the order in white. Master, this is the ten billion order you prepared for the Li family. Oops. Please accept this order from Nan Xue. Won this order. Your Li family will rise. Become the whole summer. The top family. Du Chen I know there are some things I'll explain to you later. Take it. Ah, ah, ah Son-in-law, when you came to our house for a blind date, I just look at your talent. Have an extraordinary bearing It's not mortal. You are as good as snow in our house. I don't think that's what you just said. I was joking with you. Hey Deer, I'm really ashamed of what happened today. I'm relieved that the warm snow can be handed over to you. Don't worry, Dad. I will not let warm snow suffer the slightest injustice in the future. Hey Come on, I'll show you our 10 billion mansion. Sue is not good. The latest news The funds of Jinhai Lee Group were cheated. Face bankruptcy Uncle Hu Wanjin, the richest man in the summer of Lin Xiaoxiao. Sent it to Li's home with tens of billions of orders. May the Li family extricate themselves from difficulties. Jin Hai Li family The one who was sunk into the nuisance by the one you renounced. Jin Hai Li family The richest man How could he send tens of billions to the little Jin Hai Li's family? Tinker Bell. Mm-hmm. no way I'm going to go again. The richest man is lucky in his mansion in Jinhai. Verify it. After Lu Chen Is it really our new home in Jinhai? How about it? do you like it? This is the first mansion of Jinhai, Fengtian Biyuan. In the past, only the richest man in the building was qualified to own it. I heard that its market capitalization and transaction price is 10 billion yuan. But none of the 100 Lee groups can buy him. Lu Chen I can't believe you used to be a beggar. The richest man Su Qianxue of the Su Group sincerely asked for a meeting. Boss Su, what is he doing here? Ignore him. Xiong is brainless. Keep a smelly face every day It's like someone owes money. Just let him wait outside the door. General Manager Su of Su Group But the youngest female president of Daxia Or my idol? He's not as bad as you say he is. I'll invite him in. It's you, Mr. Su. I didn't expect to see you here. I am Li Nuanxue, president of Jinhai governing Group. And a fan of yours. I remember you are Lu Chen's wife, Xiao Xiao. President of Jinhai Lee Group I worked hard to prepare that day. I will be taught by Hu Wanjin, the richest man in Daxia. Reach the top of the financial world in Daxia at one stroke It's your husband Lu Chen. You are a little Li family beggar and a superfluous husband. Wreaked havoc on my teacher worship party. Annoyed Lord Wu Wanjin, the richest man in Daxia. Ruined the teacher worship banquet that I planned with my own hands Boss Su, it's not what you think. The teacher worship banquet that day It was all of us who misunderstood Lu Chen. Misunderstanding A useless beggar picking up trash abroad has a superfluous son-in-law. Also deserves to be misunderstood. Misunderstanding A useless beggar picking up trash abroad has a superfluous son-in-law. Also deserved to be missed. Boss Su Lu Chen is not what you think. Lu Chen also brought me here. I said a little golden sea. How did you get it? Tens of billions of orders from Hu Wanjin, the richest man in Daxia. So it's you and your beggar husband. you've got such a nerve Bring it to the door to train the richest man. You are such a jerk. You must be successful in the villain right now. Thinking of going up to the sky one step at a time But what you have no idea is Your loser beggar husband. It's a piece of junk that our boss Su doesn't even want to get married. Renounce the marriage, yes. There is no bankruptcy in the Lu family. Before fleeing abroad I did have an engagement with him. But that was before. Now I'm the billionaire female president of the building. And he's just a guy who came back from abroad. A poor beggar who only knows how to pick up garbage Our identities are very different. Why should he be the man of Su Qianxue? Boss Su, I was as ignorant as you. But I'm luckier than you. Married Lu Chen. You can't even imagine the identity of Lu Chen. Boss Su, although you are worth tens of billions of dollars Female president But you can't even imagine the identity of Lu Quan. Ridiculous. I'd like to know Lu Chen, that useless beggar. Rubbish at the bottom of society Is there anything unimaginable? You are now stepping on the Fengtian other courtyard. It's my new home with Lu Chen. Your new home with Lu Chen Ridiculous. Who doesn't know that? This Fengtian stacked courtyard It is the ten billion mansion of Hu Wanjin, the richest man in Daxia. How did it become your new house with Lu Chen? You don't think you've ever been to Fengtian. This Fengtian other courtyard will become your home, right? This Fengtian mansion and tens of billions of orders They are all gifts from Hu Wanjin, the richest man, to Lu Chen. You are so shameless. Why did the richest man send you tens of billions of orders? You know better than anyone. Shameless boss Su Although you are my idol But your assistant has been rude to me. I want to There's no need for us to talk anymore. Please leave my house. I think you're crazy about money in your house. Su Qianxue is really a narrow enemy. Su Qianxue is really a narrow enemy. My wife is right. What about our family? Two self-righteous people are not welcome, Suchen. You useless beggar. To the waste of our boss Su's marriage. You don't really think Give your wife to the richest man to sleep with. You can yell at our boss Su. Remember. You are the trash at the bottom of society. Garbage is always rubbish. There will never be a day to come to the stage. Lu Chen, you beggar dare to hit me. You wait for me to make you pay. Enough Lu Chen, there is a limit to my tolerance for you. Because of the withdrawal of the marriage. My repeated forgiveness and help You made a big fuss about my teacher the other day. For once, you annoyed the jianghu Chamber of Commerce. I'll intercede with President Qi for you. Once again And this time. My Su Qianxue has already Do I owe you anything? Don't put my tolerance for you As the capital of your ignorance and indulgence Without my help. You will always be a poor beggar. Boss Su Wu Group is not going to make it. It's time for us to gobble up Wu Group. Boss Su Wu Group is not going to make it. It's time for us to gobble up Wu Group. Remember what I said today. Without me, Su is modest. You're nothing. Let's go A self-righteous psychopath I just listened to Su Qianxue on the phone. Competition between Wu Group and overseas consortia I'm not going to make it. Wu Yushuang, president of Wu Group Is one of my few lovers in China. I can't watch his company go bankrupt. He was robbed by Su Qianxue, a man with a big chest and no brain. Be swallowed up. Su Qianxue, maybe we'll meet again soon. Then you'll know how wrong you are. Nan Xue just said on the phone. That Wu Yusheng, president of Wu Group, It's my uncle's cousin. Now his company is facing bankruptcy. I can't stand by and watch I have to check it out. Then do you need me to go with you? So late You have a good rest at home. I can do it myself. Then go early and come back early. Be safe. Upright Boss Wu, our company is in a very critical situation. One day at the most Then the company will face bankruptcy. Be swallowed up by foreign capital The time of the day Is Wu Group really going to die at my hands? Hey, what are you doing? This is Wu Group. Outsiders are not welcome to enter. Hello Let me talk to Wu Yusheng, chairman of your company. Look at you dressed like a poor beggar. I think you're trying to find fault. Come on, I'm not kidding you. So you can report to your leader. Let's just say it's you Dong. Lu Chen, the secretary's cousin, came to see him. As poor as you are. He is also the cousin of our chairman. Our chairman It is impossible to have such a poor and sour relative like you. Let's go. Right away. Call Wu Yu, chairman of Jinhai Wu Group. Shuang came downstairs to pick me up. Cut You're still acting with me, aren't you? Are you leaving or not? If you don't go, you'll do it. Stop! You poor beggar dare to make trouble in Wu's group. I think you're getting impatient. Hey, stop! Boss Wu, what are you doing here? If I don't come, You're going to hit someone, aren't you? Ah, I dare not. This gentleman. sorry I startled you. Why don't you apologize to this gentleman quickly? I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. I didn't know who you really were just now. Your adult has a large number of Forgive me for this little security guard. This gentleman. What can I do for you in our company? I haven't seen you for so many years. Don't recognize me. You are I didn't expect that the little follower at that time Now she has become such a beautiful woman. Cousin, you are cousin Lu Chen. Cousin heard that your company is facing bankruptcy. Don't worry, your brother. I'm back now. No one can bully you. Cousin heard that your company is facing bankruptcy. Don't worry, your brother. I'm back now. No one can bully you. Cousin, ever since my aunt died, You've been living abroad all these years. I was so worried. Let's go to your office and talk. You keep doing your job. Yes. This poor beggar is really a relative of our chairman. Oh, that was close. I almost beat someone up. Cousin, have you had a good time abroad these years? This dress is This dress was before my mother died. I made it for me myself. I didn't find out until I returned home. So I haven't been willing to take it off. I heard that your company has been collected by overseas consortia. What's going on now? Five days ago, the company was attacked by an overseas consortium. The company has been hit like never before At present, the company is extremely short of funds. All aspects of finance are heavily in debt. Wu Group is afraid to go bankrupt. It's really not a good day. But don't worry. Now that I'm back, No one dares to bully you anymore. By the way, cousin. You came to me just now. Why Lord Juan Jin, the richest man in the building, called me. Informed me. I didn't have your contact information before I came here. And then he was stopped by the security guard just now. So I asked Juan Jin to tell you to pick me up downstairs. Have the richest man in the building let me know. What did you do It's simple. As long as you have more money than him. Richer than his next head. You said that there are some situations that you may not know. After the Lu family went bankrupt and was forced to go abroad. In fact, there is no money all these years. Now the world's richest man worth hundreds of trillions of dollars It's my dad. The curse of the single pass of the Lu family I think you know that, too. My dad is old now. I'm anxious for me to go back and inherit the family fortune. But I haven't decided yet. Inherit the fortune of hundreds of trillions of dollars That's why I went back to China to relax. You mean My uncle is the world's richest man worth hundreds of billions of dollars. Good So you don't have to worry about the bankruptcy of your company. Now that I'm back, I will help you. And I will let those who want to rob Can't eat any good fruit. No wonder. Lord Hu Wanjin, the richest man in Daxia, also wants to listen to your arrangement. It turns out that our tens of thousands of people The richest man in Daxia, who is respected by countless people. What am I supposed to do? Give me a position in your company first. It's convenient for me to go in and out of the company freely. Okay, then I'll officially appoint you as my company now. The new department manager I'll have my secretary sort out your information right away. All right, then I'm going home. Where's my wife? Still waiting for me at home. Your company's problems. I will keep Hu quiet and keep an eye on the movement. You don't have to worry. There won't be any problems. I'll come back to see you tomorrow. You're married. I don't know yet. When will I be arranged to meet the lucky sister-in-law? When these things are taken care of, I'll arrange for you to meet then. Mm-hmm. Wan Jin, as the richest man in Daxia, The bankruptcy crisis of Wu Group, my cousin's company. Be sure to hold it up for me personally. I'd like to see it. Who dares to go after my cousin's company? Don't worry, young master. I'll take care of it. Keep an eye on Wu's group. Nothing can go wrong in this matter. And don't alarm the snake. Wu Group is on the verge of bankruptcy Now is a good time to annex Wu Group. Inform it. Tomorrow I will be in the Ballroom of Cloud Sea and Tianya. Hold a meeting of Jinhai entrepreneurs Set up Jinhai Entrepreneur Alliance At the same time, I will be the chairman of the alliance. This Wu wants not to go bankrupt. You must join and be attached to me. Lu Chen really did not expect You and President Wu of Wu Group It's a cousin relationship. Last night, all the business celebrities in Jinghai It's all received. Invitation for talks from Su Qianxue of Su's Group Su Qianxue at this time Gather all the entrepreneurs in Jinghai. I'm afraid the ultimate goal is President Wu's disregard of the group. The whole of Qinghai understands Now Wu Group is facing a huge crisis. Bankruptcy is imminent So this mouthful of fat worth ten billion dollars I think everyone will be watching. But don't worry. I'll do it. Lu Chen heard that Yesterday Mr. Hu Wanjin, the richest man in Daxia, came to Jinghanling home in person. Sent tens of billions of orders for Nanxue. I'm afraid this is your arrangement. Since warm snow married me I never gave her a present. This order of ten billion yuan Even if it's a small gift. Warm snow is your best friend. I really envy you. If only I had met Lu Chen in front of you Even if you met me in front of him In your eyes, I am just a poor beggar who came back from abroad. I've never experienced anything like this. You still won't believe who I am. Lu Chen, I said There is a limit to my tolerance for you. This time, my Su Group transferred tens of billions of funds from the company. Vowed to annex Wu Group I know you've joined Wu Group. But I advise you not to do anything boring. Trying to get my attention. Su Jianyu Where does your self-righteous sense of superiority come from? Let me tell you something. Wu Yusheng is my cousin. There's something wrong with her company. I can't just sit by and do nothing. I didn't know you were such a superfluous son-in-law of the Li family. How did you persuade your wife Li Wanxue to help you? But I'm kind enough to advise you Lee's previous assets were only 10 million. The $10 billion order that just came in. You'd better keep the door closed and have a good fire. otherwise Wu Group is not the only company that went bankrupt today. You don't need to worry about this as an outsider. I'm here today. No one can have the slightest idea of my cousin's company No one is ignorant. Ridiculous today's Jinhai Commercial Hall But I am not the only company in Su's Group to participate. The Xu consortium of the Xu family in Beijing Wang's real estate of the Shangjing Wang family Will come and give me a hand. I'd like to see it then. Under the pressure of Mount Tai You don't have a hard mouth. A loser beggar also wants to rise to the sky. This is no place for you to come. It's not good to sink. The Xu family consortium in Shangjing has assets of hundreds of billions. The wealth ranking is only below the richest man in the summer. This time he is going to help Su Qianxue. I'm afraid it's not good. Go to the Wang family in Beijing It is also one of the top five business giants in Daxia. If the Wang family also came to help Su Qianxue The situation is not very optimistic. But the Xu family is only in Beijing. The Wangs are nothing but ants in my eyes. Something that can be solved with one phone call. You guys go in first. I'll make a phone call. Yeah Go Dad. I promise to inherit our family's fortune of 100 trillion dollars. Send your men to Jinhai to dock. Ha ha My son finally forgave me. Promised to inherit my Lu family's fortune of 100 trillion yuan. Haha, this is the only child in my Lu family. This kid, don't go back on your word. I can't. I have to send someone to Jinghai right away. Today's party is really a good thing. Long time no see Long time no see. Hello. Come on. Do it. Ha ha. I haven't seen anyone. Yeah Where did the poor beggars come from? Who told you to sit here? All of you here today are business celebrities from Jinhai. Worth more than 100 million What right do you have to sit here and get out? All of you here today are business celebrities. Worth more than 100 million What right do you have to sit here and go out? Master Yu, this is my husband Lu Chen. Please speak with respect. Ha! I've heard about it for a long time. The first beautiful president of Jinhai Li Nuanxue, president of Lee Group Married to a beggar who picked up garbage abroad. I always don't believe such rumors Always feel that no matter how worthless a woman is. Can't you be cheap enough to lose money? I didn't expect that I really learned a lot today. you You, you stinking beggar. How dare you hit me? What's wrong with hitting you? An uneducated thing. Today It is the day when President Su held a press conference in Jinhai. You are the stinky beggar of the Li family. How dare you hit me? You are punching the face of the president. Get down on your knees and apologize. You are a beggar of the Li family. Dare to talk to the Jinhai business name present. Do you deserve to be equal? Get out of here. This is no place for you. Jin Hai business celebrities present by Lu Chen were right. This is really not where you're supposed to be. Every Jinhai business celebrity present Are all worth more than 100 million. Not a small potato like you at the bottom can compete. You won't be seated. Hum, Sue always spoke. Why don't you get down on your knees and kowtow to Master Yu to apologize? All of you here are billionaire store celebrities. I don't deserve to settle down. sorry You're not even qualified to carry my shoes with me. Even if you are Su Qianxue Just a billionaire president. I'm still a chicken dog here. cannot withstand a single blow What a big tone Let me see Who's talking nonsense here? Ah, Master Xu, you're here. Hello, Master Xu. Xu Shao, you have come a long way from the forest pawn. Don't worry I'd like to see it. One who dares to talk nonsense here. People who don't pay attention to everyone present. What exactly are you capable of? Get down on your knees and lick it clean I can consider it. Ask all the celebrities present to forgive your ignorance. Pretend you can't hear me, right? Looks like you don't know who I am. Laozi Xu Tianlong Heir to the Xu consortium in Shangjing The Xu family is big and young. Future heirs to hundreds of billions of assets I'm going to run over a kid like you. It's like running over an ant. I'm asking you to get down on your knees. Lick it clean. Get your dirty hands off me. Su Qianxue, this is the foreign aid you hired. A mere heir worth hundreds of billions I think with this little financial resources, I'm afraid the Wu Group that wants to tear up my cousin is not enough. Aren't you the king among the boys? And don't look in the mirror. Look at how poor you are. The Xu family in Beijing is not enough. What about me? Hey, hey, hey, hey. Oops. Master Wang is here. The legendary Shangjing businessman came today. It was a worthwhile trip today. Boss Su really deserves to go to Beijing. The youngest female CEO worth tens of billions This social circle is really enviable. Wang Shao, you're here. If you are far away, please take a seat. Introduce yourself My name is Wang Yuhu From the Shangjing Wang family. The person in charge of Wang's Group is my grandfather. The real estate chairman of Wang Group is my father. I'm worth 20 billion now. I don't know, with my price and Xu Shao's family background, Are you qualified to kneel down and kowtow and apologize? It's not enough for your grandfather plus his grandfather. Hum, good boy. How dare you despise the Xu family and the Wang family in public? You're still the first. I think you want to die. The Underground King of Jinhai President Qi, who is worth tens of billions of dollars How could you kneel to this stinking beggar? Get up Is the president of Qijianghu Jinghai jianghu Chamber of Commerce. I know you You are just a small character worth tens of billions of dollars. Dare to put hundreds of billions under me. Go to the king's house in front of the king Protect the beggar Do you believe it or not? I have a phone call. Let your quack chamber of commerce go bankrupt at any time have eyes but fail to see I don't know the real dragon. Your visit to the King's family in Beijing has been handed down for hundreds of years. Offended you and made you go up in smoke. It's also a moment of kung fu. What a big tone Ha ha I'm going to offend this beggar today I'd like to see it. How did he let me pass on for a hundred years? Hundreds of billions of families went up in smoke. Count me in to go to Beijing Xu's family. I went to Beijing Xu's house. Take root in Beijing and inherit it for a century Second on the list of total assets of the building. The financial resources are above the Shangjing Wang's family. Speaking of which, I went to Beijing Xu's house. I've never realized what bankruptcy is. I'd like to see it. You are a poor beggar What makes me go bankrupt in Beijing Xu's family? Hum hum I saw it for the first time Waiting in line for death. Lu Chen I don't know why President Qi is so protective of you. But you also offended the Shangjing Wang family. Go to the Xu family in Beijing It will be difficult for you to take a step in the building. Okay, you're not the only one who lost his voice. Even your wife Li Nuanxue's Lee Group Will also follow the return of life. I advise you. Now get down on your knees and admit your mistakes with the two big boys. Get a chance. Somebody. This smelly beggar is endless. The Wang and Xu families, who actually despise the assets of hundreds of billions of dollars, Drag him out and beat him to death. I'll see who dares to do it in Laozi's territory. President Qi of the jianghu club is here. President Qi is the underground king of Jinghai. Notoriously ruthless The poor beggar dared to make trouble on the floor of President Qi. It's going to be bad luck. President Qi is sorry for his loss. I was there today. I'll see who dares to hit Master Luo. Several Changlin What does this mean What do you mean Jianghu often rides. See you around the world. Young master Ask me to get down on my knees and apologize. They could be fathers. You still want to die. Yeah Ah, Xu Shaowang. Our purpose today Not in sequence with this Li beggar. Since President Qi came forward to speak Then let's let him go for a while. After all, what happens next Is our main purpose today. Son of a bitch I'll give you a break first. But you should know Offend the king of Xu's family in Beijing. I won't spare you when I'm here. After this meeting You and the Li family behind your wife. The cover looks like a beggar The three little beauties around you are very exciting. After the end of the meeting Be sure to play with them in front of you. Hey, hey, hey You don't have to wait for the meeting to end. If you go to the Wang family in Beijing, the Xu family will go bankrupt. Let the Xu family go bankrupt together in 10 minutes. Ha make grand gestures a fool to the third degree When I went to Beijing, the Xu family had assets of hundreds of billions. Rooted in the mansion for a hundred years With one phone call from you And want me to go to the Xu family in Beijing and go bankrupt at the same time. Even if it is the richest man in the summer I don't dare to say such big words. Ask about the banquet. Everyone in the hall Ha, some people believe your bullshit. Want me to go bankrupt in Beijing Wang's family. good You have balls. I'll wait. If I hadn't gone bankrupt today, None of these three pretty girls can get away. Hey. Ignorant Master Lu I want to bankrupt you and Xu Wang. Ten minutes is enough. So much for today's farce. Welcome to Jinhai entrepreneurs. Come to participate in the business talks organized by my Su's Group. I am Su Qianxue, president of Su's Group. Today, all the major Jinhai entrepreneurs are gathered here. It is to promote the development of Jinhai enterprises. I, Su Shi, have repeatedly established Jinhai Enterprise Alliance. Help each other Common development I, Su Shi, will be chairman of the alliance. In conjunction with the Xu family consortium in Shangjing Shangjing Wang Family Wang Real Estate Jointly raise 60 billion funds Used to support the development of major enterprises in Jinhai 60 billion funds What a big arm. It's not good. This is $60 billion in assets on the way. Wu Group wants not to be annexed. More money must be put forward to compete with it. In order to maintain the position of chairman of the entrepreneur alliance. It's just 60 billion dollars. I only contribute 10 billion dollars on behalf of the individual. Support Wu Yushuang, president of Wu Group Serve as chairman of Jinhai Entrepreneur Alliance I Jin Hai Li Family Lee Group Inject ten billion yuan into Wu Group Support Boss Wu as chairman of the alliance. Our quack chamber of commerce is willing to follow Mr. Lu. Contribute 10 billion to support Ignore the president of the alliance as the chairman of the alliance. 10 billion dollars Lu Chen, you are not afraid to flicker your tongue when you talk big. You are a mere son-in-law of the Li family. How can you give out 10 billion dollars? Now I saw that I had renounced my marriage with you It was the right decision I've ever made. A man like you is talking nonsense A penniless clown who is grandstanding You only deserve to be the son-in-law of the Li family. You don't deserve me at all. You're worried about whether the $10 billion I injected is true or not. Then you check it out. The enterprise registration information of Wu Group. Wu Group I really received two 10 billion capital injections just now. And a capital injection of $10 billion. This Li's beggar is actually telling the truth. I went to Beijing to inject an additional capital of 20 billion yuan. Support President Su as chairman of Jinghai Alliance Entrepreneur I went to the Wang family in Beijing for an additional 20 billion. Support Boss Su as chairman of Jinghai Entrepreneur Alliance Lu Chen, did you see that? You'll never be worthy of me. Even if you can come up with $10 billion, I still don't like you. By my side There will never be a shortage of followers who are a hundred times better than you. My inside story It's always beyond the imagination of your little character. You mean to compare with me, don't you? It seems that the grades of our Lu family are too tight. Now that Master Ben is back, And the world should know. Know the details of our Lu family. Ten minutes have come. The Xu family of Shangjing Wang family should go bankrupt. Ha, grandstanding. It's ridiculous. What qualifications do you have for us to go bankrupt at the Wang family in Beijing? Based on the 10 billion you just threw out. We can go to Jingwang's house. Tens of billions of assets went up in smoke. Wishful thinking Building castles in the air I went to Beijing and the Xu family stood there for a hundred years. Pass on continuously The wind and rain experienced in it It's not something a small character like you can imagine. actually You make a casual remark. It can put me out of business. 5432 1 Road You're not gonna tell me. You can make a comeback in this kind of scene, right? It's not good. Our Xu family was attacked by an unknown financial man. The family plummeted and all the partners terminated the cooperation with us. We're going bankrupt. What kind of existence has been offended by disdain? I, Wang Group, Be attacked by dozens of unknown judgments within ten minutes. We went to the Wang family in Beijing and went bankrupt. My family is bankrupt. How did I give birth to a rebellious son like you? I command you. No matter what you give, The price of the same Kowtow and kneel When a cow is a horse We should also ask for the forgiveness of this mysterious adult. So we can have a chance. On the road. I don't know Tarzan. Not a real dragon. You let the Wangs live. You are a young master Wang who goes to the Wang family in Beijing. Kowtow and apologize to me. I am a small role that is inconspicuous in the eyes of Master Wang. Sorry Boss Lu Don't say that. Just let me live. I knew I was wrong. I deserve to die. Just give me a break. Compared to you. Now I still like it when you tell me that you are unruly. I thought you said you wanted my wife to have a cousin. Shh. Shh. I don't want to be on Jinhai Street anymore. Somebody. Throw them out. Sanjiang. Spare your life! spare your life! Spare your life. Spare your life. Su Qianxue, are you sure you still want to despise yourself with me? Lu Shen, who are you? Who am I I am your unimaginable existence. If I want to. The whole world can be made for me. Hu Wanjin, the richest man in the building, arrived. Hu Wanjin, the richest man in the building Inject US $10 billion into Wu Group Support President Wu as the general seat of Jinghai Entrepreneur Alliance The overseas Lu family injected 10 billion US dollars into Wu Group. Support President Wu as chairman of Jinghai Entrepreneur Alliance Overseas consortia inject US $1 million into Wu Group Support Wu Dujun as chairman of the Entrepreneur Alliance. Do the math The richest man, Lord Hu Wanjin, is also here. How could Lord Hu Wanjin cheer Lu Chen? Who exactly are you? I've met the young master. I've seen a young man. Young master, it's impossible. Absolutely impossible. He went bankrupt and went into exile long ago. There is no so-called young master. Su Qianxue, I just told you. Quitting your marriage with me is the stupidest thing you've ever done in your life. If I want to. The whole thing can be done for me. The person in charge of the Tiangong consortium building Hu Wanjin, the richest man in the building Ask the young master to inherit the Tiangong consortium Become the richest man in the world Lujia, global director of Tiangong consortium. Ask the young master to return to the Tiangong consortium. Inherit Lu's status as the richest man in the world. Qi Jianghu, president of jianghu Chamber of Commerce Ask the young master to return to the Tiangong consortium. Inherit the status of the richest man in the world Ask Master Lu to return to the Tiangong consortium. Inherit the assets of the world's richest man Hundreds of billions of dollars in assets Impossible Absolutely impossible. He is just a bankrupt Lu family beggar who was remarried by me. How can he be the heir to trillions of assets? Bold You are the president of a small big summer with a fortune of 10 billion yuan. Dare to point the finger at the young master Lu, who is worth 100 trillion yuan. You're only worth tens of billions now. The frog in the well knows nothing of the great ocean Who is qualified to govern the purpose of my young master? When you get away with the chance to reach trillions one day, Goodbye, my young master. Just like a mayfly to see the blue sky Su Qingxue, I just told you to renounce my marriage. Is the least anxious person you've ever done in your life. So you really live in Fengtian courtyard. But you just don't believe it. Su Qianxue, I have warned you many times. But you're just self-righteous. to one's eyes there is no other Always holding your tens of billions worth of female CEO status. To win a name, but you know what? Your worth of tens of billions In my eyes, you don't even lift your shoes with me. Boss Su You used to be the most eye-catching star in the business community in Daxia. She is my youngest billionaire female CEO in Daxia. And I. As the president of a small Jinhai governing group It's worth only ten million. I always think of you as learning in my heart. Idolized idol Dream of reaching your height one day. Now I want to thank you even more. If it hadn't been for you and Lu Chen, How could I possibly know Lu Chen? And register to marry him. Thank you for letting me stop looking up to you. Easily surpass your strength. Boss Su, are you all right? Why didn't you tell me? Why didn't you tell me in the first place? If you had told me before Your Lu family has 100 trillion US dollars in assets overseas. I might not have renounced my marriage with you. Su Qianxue, please wake up. Even if I told you the truth, With your defiance, A self-righteous character Will you wake up? Besides, What do you think of two people's marriage? Your leverage to climb the ladder? There is no regret medicine in this world. If you're wrong, you're wrong. You go. You'll never talk about it in your life. Such as calculation I never want to see anyone again. Take him away from home. It's addictive. Shh. Lord Schiff. The young master returned home at that time A newly arrived gentleman I once begged to see the young master here. Go with the young master again and again about you worshiping me as your teacher. Young master, in order not to lose my face. That's why I promised you to be your teacher. So that you can see the opportunity of higher heaven and earth. Hey It's a pity you think highly of yourself. To humiliate you again and again at your teacher worship banquet Personally ruined this great future. Chu Qianxue is the one who personally ruined your teacher worship banquet. You offended Master Lu. It's you. Personally ruined your coveted teacher worship ceremony. All of you here now Who else opposes President Wu of Wu Group? Serve as chairman of Jinhai Enterprise Alliance. On the way, I... Jinhai fisherman Willing to support the president of Wu Group Serve as chairman of the Association of Entrepreneur Alliance I am Jin Haichun. I am Jin Hai Yujia. Willing to support President Wu as chairman of the alliance good That being the case, So that's the end of today's meeting, but I want you to remember what you said today. Let's talk about it. Go, go. Young master, I have shown you the man you want to arrest. Bring him up. Bring people up. Let go! let me go! Lu Chen Why are you a stinky beggar? Wind dragon Snow Feng long, when I So I'm sure you'd rather doubt Lu Chen, I never doubted what you said. And you cheated me out of all the assets of our company. I almost went bankrupt because of Lee's Group. I can't believe you have the face to show up in front of me. Ah Xue I had to. I put it down and face bankruptcy. I lied to you about running. It's not that I can't run away anymore. Hey You think you can walk now? Young master, what do you think we should do with young master? Lord Wanjin. You admit your mistake, right? He is just a poor beggar coming back from abroad. You are the richest man in the building. Worth hundreds of billions You call him young master. Open one's mouth have eyes but fail to see It's time to open your dog's eyes. This is... The new chairman of Tiangong consortium, the world's first consortium. The world's richest man with a fortune worth of billions of dollars Chairman of the board of directors of the Tiangong Foundation, the world's largest consortium The world's richest man worth billions of dollars impossible You must be acting. You're acting, right? not He is just a son-in-law in the Li family penniless I don't even deserve to carry my shoes You're acting. You're lying to me. You're lying to me, right? take him down Make him pay the price he deserves It's Lord Waijin you've been tricked Lu Shao really didn't expect you to be the richest man in the world Is it too late for me to pursue you now? well I was just joking you're here Warm Snow, you are sick Pregnant and warm snow you're pregnant The doctor said they were twins My Lu family has a descendant that's great I helped the Lu family carry the burden As a practicing scholar You must take care of yourself