Named after Queen Victoria, who from 1837 until the Victorian era with shifting trends, Food itself was part and the Victorians displayed in the dishes they prepared. Victorian Britons were a diverse and habits, and the reflected their Today we're going to take a look in Victorian England. But before we get started, be History channel, and let below what other you would like to hear about. OK. For our entree today, we video. I think it's just delicious. Among other things, enthusiastic loved to tinker with and create and vegetables. One of the most to emerge in the was the royal Developed by Thomas it was luscious and tasty. Botanists of the on something of a quest to was as large as the American as the European variety, on both counts. His royal sovereign's that Country Life that it was, &quot;One of the finest McDonald's gave us the Egg IHOP gave us the Rooty Tooty plate, and Victorian the full English breakfast. Typically encompassing a baked beans, grilled the full English to this day, a popular meal. However, prior to only the wealthy could for breakfast. That slowly changed as the standard of living of the population. By the end of the era, even had the time and money to enjoy It may be hard to of the most popular beverages Oh, OK. It's actually not In fact, by 1865, made 25 million barrels Though it was widely had a relatively low alcohol You might be wondering why beer get you drunk. Well, the truth is that the especially in crowded could easily become Consuming beer was therefore disgusting option for Victorians Since the climate in the UK impossible, it had No one knows exactly when the but some believe it might in the court of Henry III. It wouldn't be until that sugar came But even then, it was commanding prices would be about 50 English per pound. As you might expect, it remained However, thanks in part to the in 1874, candy and could be found in the Victorian world. One of the most popular Named after the eyes of wasn't as unappetizing The red and white were actually mint flavored. The 19th century saw is arguably the most item of all time, cereal. American entrepreneurs developed breakfast cereals to the masses. Some took it even further. John Kellogg, for example, as a bland food to curb Because, apparently, he thought wanted. Processed breakfast in mid-century to gain popularity over time. Anyone who's been to a it could testify to that, as in existence today devoted to products like Honeycombs, and dozens Brittons, on the other take to the stuff the Instead, British preferred to eat gruel, Once you've had Cap'N They wouldn't really start until the beginning Working and middle supplemented their diet Cabbage in particular and a good source of nutrients. The famous housekeeping even recommended fried for economical meals that But there were a in this department Onions were also a given their year-round cheap price. Leeks, watercress, artichokes, and peas were similarly were more subject to seasonal By the middle of the era, speaking, and most consuming some kind of meat Not every cut or type of Wealthier Victorians, enjoyed the best pieces while their poor to make do with Butchers sold most making everything from available for purchase. A budget conscious buy a sheep's head for would be just about two Civic rituals and in the Victorian era, and in such festivities. No one made than the community of Denby To mark national occasions, were known to create giant Some of the events that were Napoleon's defeat the repeal of corn laws in of Queen Victoria's In the year 2000, the University of Engineering baked the according to reports, measured held two tons of potatoes, a ton and nearly 200 pints Victorians were keen meant that they often sampled The medlar, an wouldn't be an obvious But Victorians gave it a go This softened the fruit, Softened medlars but many Victorians into medlar cheese or jelly. Medlar, it's worth unique to the Victorians. They dated way back and even merited mentions in and Middleton. No less than four can be found in the plays including in Timon of Athens, for Measure, and even, While it may sound strange bone marrow was a in the Victorian era. Chefs and diners called a marrow scoop to remove bones. And it was much sought after, it gave Victorians In fact, Queen Victoria to have eaten marrow every day. Her one-time chef, created marrow toast for her. His relatively simple serving bone marrow, like parsley and Turtle soup was one of of the 18th and on both sides of the Atlantic. But the essential was relatively hard to come Enterprising Victoria cooks of the popular soup. It was just like only it lacked one Something else needed for the eponymous in mock turtle soup. So what did they use? Well, among other could be made with like calf's head, Oysters were part of but many working class folks to fresh batches of them. So as horrible as to people used to they often had to weigh the That being said, a much than fresh seafood was by would keep longer. Street vendors even for the bargain price Not a bad deal considering the was to eat rotten ones. When it came to food, Victorians and they generally used once it was butchered. This frugality meant that were a relatively popular of meat among all classes. And why wouldn't it be? Calf's head was a surprisingly and could be prepared Some recipes called while others explained That being said, could be labor intensive, to remove the bones and skin. The brains and tongue, seldom went to waste. Victorians loved gelatins and To make calf's foot have to boil actual The boiled water would then be Incidentally, this noting that calf's foot jelly is which is a chief ingredient medications, and other products. Some examples include foods puddings, gummy bears, candy cream cheeses, and a host of other widely It also turns up in non-food equipment, blue match heads, just to name a few. That's right. In case you didn't which is in all of those is mostly made Anyway, Victorians believe was a nourishing food and recipes for it often for invalids. Modern science, for that gelatin may play some role as well as provide benefits But the jury is still it is in those departments. So what do you think? Which of these Victorian food to you? Let us know in the And while you're at it, check from our Weird History.