The President: Well, It's a great pleasure to the Los Angeles 2028 They've done a fantastic Olympics here. They called me when I Casey, that was Mr. Wasserman: Yes, sir. The President: And they involved because the other call the Olympic one in -- the people So it was a little hard decision. And I did make the call, call. They were starving for love. And, Casey, you and fantastic job. We got the Olympics to And that was a big moment, They really -- they were dealt with. But because of your the United States will the Olympic Games. How exciting is that? I want to thank Olympic and Paralympic Hirshland. Thank you very much. Fantastic job. Ms. Hirshland: Thank The President: As well leadership of the LA 2028, Casey Wasserman. And, Casey, really a the beginning. Mr. Wasserman: Thank you. The President: You were beginning. (applause) The Chief Harper, and also Thank you very Great, great job. Appreciate it. And Senior Advisors Dean Arnot. We're grateful. Thank you, We're grateful to be Mnuchin, Acting Secretary McCarthy, who has been different ways. The job he's done He'll soon be Speaker of forward to that. I'm quite sure about that. I don't know, the odds are percent. I would say 80 Where is Kevin? Congratulations. Leader McCarthy: Thank you, sir. The President: Although, after the fact. (laughter) And also tremendous guy and a great loves our country dearly: Thank you, Lindsey, Senator Graham: Thank The President: I From the day I took everything in my power to the winning bid. Now, for the third time in Angeles -- the &quot;City of raise up the Olympic Torch greatest competitors How exciting. The United States has won any other nation. That's good. By far? By a lot? Or just by a Ms. Hirshland: The President: By a lot. (laughter) That's good. And let's keep And we'll never stop our relentless pursuit of excellence. I'm confident that Team winning tradition in Tokyo Paris in 2024, and then I hope you remember Do you promise, Casey? Or will you -- Mr. The President: At least Mr. Wasserman: Guaranteed. The President: If (laughter) The President: major economic victory. The 2028 Olympics will add $18 billion to our including $7 billion The LA Olympic Committee this at no cost to the They've raised a lot utilizing stadiums that already built. Something nice about not But they're doing I'll now sign a document government's total support of And as soon as I sign, I'm say a few words. He's done a fantastic job as So we're going to And this is a big Mr. Wasserman: Yes, sir. The President: (The document is signed.) right at the beginning important call, I think What do you think, Sarah? Don't you agree? Mr. Wasserman: I Ms. Hirshland: Wonderful. The President: Good. Let's go. Let's get this out here. Thank you very much. (applause) Thank Thank you very much. Congratulations, Casey. Mr. Wasserman: The President: Acting Secretary Well, thank you, It's an honor to join you you pledge the federal the 2028 Olympics To echo the words of the State of the Union, blazing bright.&quot; And President Trump and this blazed especially bright Torch will be lit here States. Planning and preparations underway to execute the precision. But to be successful, the So the Department of federal partners stand Olympics. The Department is no DHS has helped secure Presidential Inauguration, Union since our well as the 2002 Winter City. Time and time again, the federal response to large, events. So rest assured that the on every front to ensure people, and the Olympic secure. And when I do say &quot;every that: from cybersecurity, immigration, to protection national leaders, economic security, and We'll provide the best that the Department has Olympics as safe So on behalf of the forward to working with and years to come, and of USA right here So thank you to And thank you, The President: Great job. Thank you very much, Chad. I appreciate it. Casey, would you like to Mr. Wasserman: Sure, Well, I want to thank commitment of the Your leadership from instrumental in us bringing the Games back This is the third time mentioned. And our goal is to create secure Olympic Games, without the support you have provided us. I promise you we'll say the least, because it without you. The President: Thank you. Mr. Wasserman: And so we The President: Thank you. Mr. Wasserman: And we want partners at the U.S. Olympic and Paralympic home field advantage And we intend to do The President: Good. Thank you very much. Mr. Wasserman: Thank you. The President: Ms. Hirshland: Wonderful. Thank you. Hello. And I'm here. We're excited to be here. We're grateful We will take a large summer as we continue our USA and the support of And the safety and in Tokyo this summer is This administration and overall has been We feel incredibly performance of our team country proud, but also in our delegation. And we thank you The President: And good luck in Ms. Hirshland: Thank you. The President: That Lindsey, would you like Senator Graham: Well, the together, and I'm looking watch. (laughter) And I participating, but But you never know. The President: With Lindsey, Senator Graham: I got my The President: Thanks, Lindsey. And, Kevin, you love Leader McCarthy: I The President: And I think you say something. Please. Leader McCarthy: Well, I committee and I You guys have big What Peter Ueberroth was time the Olympics was proud. I feel very honored that long history with the in here and I see a the torch. The President: That's Yeah. (laughter) Leader is we're going to be we'll have the best event. And I think it'll be a the whole world to see, come back. The President: Fellas, would you You've been very We appreciate it. Would you like Mr. Harper: Just on committee, we're so fascinating journey that wait to get to 2028. And thank you again The President: Good. It'll be fantastic. It'll be really fantastic. Mr. Arnot: We are very Mr. President. The President: Thank you. Mr. Arnot: And I was Secretary's comments about That is our primary forward to The President: Right. We're going to give it the do a great job. Please. Mr. Koblin: I'm a And to see the Games come time -- The Mr. Koblin: -- is So thank you for The President: Mr. Christopher: Looking eight years. It's going to be great. The President: Thank you. Well, we're all going And we appreciate it, and Not easy. Right? Not easy at all. Thank you all very much. Very exciting. The Press: Mr. President, The President: I might. We were invited. I was invited by Prime make that determination. We haven't made it We're going to Thank you. The Press: How do we clean before these Games? And what do you see as the in doing that? The President: Well, we really taking I see it. I see what's I see what's happening I see what's happening And I've said to my it not, we're going to So we're, right They're also contacting They have to clean it up. You have needles. You have things that we over the streets, And you have beaches, And if they can't do it do it. The federal government is we're going to do it. So we're working right now would say, and the others to work along with us. But it's -- it's not allowed to happen Incredible. The Press: What's your resisting in terms of state, especially talking forward towards the Games? The President: Well, I I think sanctuary cities, dangerous. You just look at some of are committed. That wouldn't happen if for criminals. And with LA, San places -- but they have leadership. There's no reason that happened -- our And number one, you look horrible a But also, look what it's It's so disgraceful. These are cities that 10 beautiful cities, and leave, and they just Can't let that happen. So if they don't get it going to come The Press: You're such a What would your advice be putting on a good show for The President: Well, I Sarah and all of the going to do a great show. And with Chad and -- you Steve Mnuchin, the lives here. And everybody is going We're going to -- you know It's a long time; But we're really And it's going to It'll be -- I really be the best. And the Olympic Committee They just wanted some getting it at all from We're going to give them You need the support of make it really work. And we have it. It's going to be a Okay? Thank you all very much.