Wes Anderson, the famed American director, and screenwriter His colorful and childish world is easily this visual language and narrative system since his first film, has matured so and found his films is enough to guess the name of the A-frame so obsessively symmetrical, full of of comic strips, and a child's idealistic, French Dispatch is the last and updated example and complex work, therefore it may be his Especially if you're not familiar with American film is immensely based on this culture in French Dispatch includes three separate news segment, from a local magazine in Kansas, The magazine itself is based on a real-life It includes an introduction and epilogue about Auteur is an adjective used in cinema criticism worldview and a unique method of filmmaking. These are usually creative artists who from in mind and try to create a special form and their worldview in the best way possible. So in later films, with the filmmaker getting this style gets better and better. Probably this saying from Jean Renoir, the descriptions of the auteur: " All filmmakers the first one". The best works of an auteur are just reiterations better in the latest one. The same goes for Wes Anderson. Anderson's unique style is based on popular and teenagers, familiar characters and comedy which have been leveled with millimeter accuracy This style has made almost all of his films seems the director has been more successful This persistence in the personal style in the artist is on the verge of madness. For an audience unfamiliar with this personal hard to get into French Dispatch. Narrative tropes and visual elements in Wes' and works of artists before him and are totally them, have been so condensed in French Dispatch cinema and pop culture, they make up the most After all, which "crazy artist" can make all kinds of western media, popular police cooking, tv reality shows, classic cinema, has been combined and served in a high tempo, are highly based on the specific linguistics Maybe all these qualities are what make the from non-English or non-western countries. In the rest of this video, we introduce some style so that it may be a key to entering This key may be in knowing a bit about a major which Wes Anderson's cinema perfectly fits Postmodernism is a reaction to modernism, This reaction was formed around the 60s and theories. Modernity marks the height of mankind's power to make progress, and search for humanistic Modernists were looking for theories that absolute and could explain any phenomena. But from the 60s onward and after disasters artists were hopeless of any kind of super consequences of these theories. It was in this period that a philosophical such as Jaques Derrida, Julia Kristeva, Roland that using deconstruction, brought to daylight even the most avant-garde of the modernist is nothing but the narration and that there preference to other narratives. Following this way of thought, postmodern definitive, single styles that were the precious Instead, they are interested in mixing narratives. For them, all the narratives before, be modernist low art, all is the same. It should be noted that this reference to of the original narratives, instead, they what seemed to be very serious in the past. Another feature of post-modern art, that is genius, powerful author", is intertextuality. The post-modern artist believes there is no sometimes rudely, combines the accomplishments Every post-modern work is full of countless television, radio, literature, advertisement, of people of a specific time and place. Of course, we should be aware that intertextuality of art is based on works of art before, but was hidden, was not on the surface but here reveals other texts that make up his montaged A postmodern report be noticed more or less in every Wes Anderson a mad dose of different narratives, maybe film. Before we dive into analyzing each section, fast-paced dialogues of the film are untranslatable, out a specific culture and narrative that So if you are not an English-speaking audience, Films of Anderson utilize familiar themes to the way we have heard or seen them before. But he goes one step forward in French Dispatch multiplies his range of style-mixing into Now he has five chances in a single movie and styles. .... done by top-notch and elite reporters. In every number, there are expert articles A magazine such as this is a postmodern template with no common ground to appear together. The magazine office, its editor, and its reporters be: Snobby, Serious, hard-working, experts But these features gather in a satirical way. So French Dispatch establishes its tone from based on what we've learned from reality seems to have its defined meaning, yet everything itself as a postmodern work of art from its It should be mentioned that because of all art usually seems incapable of emotionally of post-modernism. Here, Wes Anderson, in employing every aspect moments that are sure to awaken some forgotten If this doesn't work for you, Anderson also cinema used to engage the audience, create in love with them. Anderson's view on post-modernity is not the audience's distance from the story whenever He loves his characters, or to put it better, as an audience, and here, is giving an homage first moments of the film and successfully engaged. First story | The cycling reporter: This part reporters. The reporter just goes on giving negative of "Ennui". We see reports and reporters like this all In this funny adaptation, this highly critical cycles through the city to inform people of The postmodern tone is clearly visible here: style. This ironic and satirical tone foreshadows Second story | The concrete masterpiece: This is giving a presentation of "the masterpiece" This story is based on myths about a genius are what compose his art, and gives no value often engages in chaotic behaviors and love There are also lots of references to public art culture, and the rituals of art dealers. It takes all these and combines them in the which we have seen many times before; nonetheless, It is almost like a miracle that how a caricature is capable of invoking the most precious emotions. The in-depth analysis of this segment suggests genius artist behind the camera. Mise on Scene on this segment and further in-depth analyses show that Anderson incorporates language that is proven to create emotional, This segment about the poetic love of an artist a classic love story, brought to you in the Third Story | Revisions to a manifesto: This culture of 60s France and all the humanistic Anderson uses all the features contributed culture: Youngsters who will revolt against gestures without the ability to write a manifesto And of course, as a post-modern work of art, neutral narrative by the reporters. The genius of this part is that by the satirical gestures, Anderson shows that all this seriousness, mankind needs, and love is the main reason, political and cultural struggles of mankind. And only a post-modern work of art such as any old, prejudiced grand narrative, can by to points we have missed because of them. Fourth Story | The private dining room of and strange mish-mash of cooking programs, books. This segment probably makes the first-ever who is a familiar figure of pop culture, in and even uses genre cliches and still ends Here, Mr. Wright, a food journalist, the best food journalists. Remember French food journalists who look and have a unique set of vocabulary? Well, Anderson definitely remembers. The protagonist of this segment, Mr. Wright But his story is a strange one, in which food which in no way are related to the art of This segment is an example of what we said his style to the extremes. If you don't get shocked by seeing cooking when the segment turns into an interesting But despite all the bombardment of different some awe-inspiring moments. Remember when Mr. Wright sees his own insignia was once confined in. And with this poetic reference, the movie Jr., the deceased editor of French Dispatch, gratitude, to a loving and strict, a father We could conclude that Anderson's art, is different mediums of popular culture by heart narrative. Just knowing and mastery in all these styles, big of an accomplishment but only a great a fashion to not only make up a uniform output that components of them, all of us are so Detecting all these references, requires a patience, and multiple viewings, and be sure, that doesn't contain a reference to something Sit back and enjoy the legacy of a storyteller of our time.