&gt;&gt; So, we're going to go [ Background Conversation ] [ Music ] &gt;&gt; In 1955, Neil Armstrong at NASA's Flight Research [ Music ] Here, he flew almost all of the the F-100, the F-101, the He also piloted the F-5D, and his first flight During this time, he on the extensively to air launch the X-1E. He also flew the X-5, the of sweeping its wings in flight. The technique in use on While at the flight Neil made several flights in the that eventually reached speeds And in 1958, he was named as for the X-15 program, as the most successful research aircraft. Specializing in stability and with engineers in developing an that would eventually to fly near orbital altitudes. He piloted the first four in the number three X-15, and later received the AIAA's for this effort. Although originally to increase man's knowledge manned spaceflight was of the X-15 research program. The program dramatically of the human pilot for of acquired skills, and coping with the unexpected. The X-15 was air as 300 miles from The rocket engine would until its fuel was exhausted, to cLEM, ballistically, of 300,000 feet and speeds of over six times Yet barring any unforeseen the pilots were almost to maneuver their within 1,000 feet of [ Music ] In the early 1960s, Neil became and testing of a new concept for use as a possible method and unmanned spacecraft. Although the concept subsequent testing revealed that made the paraglider than spacecraft recovery. It was during this flying a prototype jetfighter, for the abort rescue of under consideration. It was called the X-20 for the U.S. Air Force. It would have been launched into Once in space, the X-20 principle called Once the speed decreased, the spacecraft would re-enter and land like a simple glider. In all, Neil logged 2,600 at Edwards, and all before astronaut of all time. &gt;&gt; This was one of the in the world at that time. The flight-test world was Dozens and dozens and configurations and tests. Something new to talk about that whenever I have the and years ahead and There will always be something. [ Applause ] &gt;&gt; Good afternoon and welcome to the Neil Armstrong Before I get started, for our guests here today. Should there be an alarm, just and gather in front Thank you for that. So, today's speaker is Dr. James as a professor of history from Our own Dr. Christiansen I don't if your wife Okay. He has written books and of topics, ranging from first nuclear fusion to the environmental Dr. Hansen is an expert and technology, especially He's the author of This is a must-read A seminal history of NACA from Followed up by the which was probably called [ Laughter ] Engineer in Charge for the title in the old Langley days. His last visit here to the to share his new book First Man, which remains the only of Neil Armstrong. You know, a lot has Our center's had the honor of The book had a lot First Man told the as a test pilot here In the title section, in the video was the Meanwhile, Dr. Hansen's been about astronauts, space and keeps himself As we speak, a film adaptation with Universal Studios The script is being written by of Spotlight fame, by Academy Award who directed La La Land. Today, Dr. Hansen will why was Neil Armstrong and why did he become the out onto the lunar surface? Please join me in welcoming [ Applause ] &gt;&gt; Thank you David. Thank You. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks. Thanks very It's a very special I really enjoyed my visit here when I was researching and getting to talk Some of them, I think, some of the colleagues in the 50s and early 60s. How many of you, I as a 31-year veteran of the out where the troublemakers So, how many of you, yeah, how many of you were 1969 and remember what you were Yeah. So, that's maybe about And of course, time marches on, and I haven't done the but I think it's somewhere of the human population in July 1969. So it's, you know, it's that are the young people, so many young people today. I've taught a lot of college in college all the Christian was one of our and Dr. Stephanie Smith at Auburn teaching So I love to see them again. But, you know, teaching and about the Apollo moon students today, it's like The War of the Roses or It's so far back, and They might have heard or their grandparents. You know, only 12 human on another heavenly body. Those were Apollo only six of them And let's hope they stay They range in age from I I think is 82, to Buzz Aldrin. Buzz is the oldest He's 87. Turned 87 in And of the commanders, of successful landings, of them are still alive. And so, you know, when we were to a point in time in that they'll be gone, and It doesn't look like, and The next moonwalkers may, in It's yet to be seen. But it's, I think we just Ohio, Neil's hometown to celebrate the 48th and there was a big event there. And Buzz came to talk. And it's sort of been, from one Armstrong Here I am at NASA Armstrong. You know, I was at in Wapakoneta giving a talk, I was invited to the out on the farm outside Both of his sons were there, His first wife was there. A big cookout at the So, I was there. I spent a large part of my in the archives where the Neil So you know, Neil Armstrong of my life and this movie. I should, perhaps, be of why Neil Armstrong? Why in the world, why in over your book to Hollywood? You worked so hard to You know, and now You know, you turn But, I think this has the really great film, and from the start with the script. I worked with Josh Singer, who David mentioned, Dave Scott, the Gemini one of the Apollo commanders Mike Collins, the for Apollo 11 is reading the Both the Armstrong boys have. Janet Armstrong has done so. They've tried really hard. They've dug deep. They've been out here. I think there's going At least a one-day shoot, in the next couple of months. I don't know exactly. They actually went and they were looking for and his small family, young family lived And they didn't have the I didn't plan to but they were driving around. They just wanted to of what the vantage point of the and so this guy was And so they stopped and they if he happens to know, you know, Well, it turned out that the that owned the Armstrong cabin. I mean, like what You know? And so he So he brought them in the of pictures in the house. And down in the, kind but kind of on a lower floor in you know how people put There was a footprint and it who was the first son of Neil, or it possibly could The little baby girl who when she was two-years-old. And anyway, let's everybody I think we could have It's just going to cover with his last months working and then takes it to the immediate So, it's not a full bio-pic It's just going to look Why Neil Armstrong? I almost feel like I could at this point, because the film, in a nutshell, no one had as accomplished as that the other commanders landing mission. I think they could have, of NASA leadership at the time and you train them up right, that any of them And that was kind of the that I have to try to But the video itself, I for the second group of of 1962, while he was here, his application actually They sort of, a guy that knew Day, and he shoved because he knew Neil But in my book, I interpret as showing a little bit You know, that he wasn't he had been selected so he had that possibility. He was flying the He might someday have been So, he wasn't sure, but he made the decision. And I think the fact with any rocket-power flying and from the astronauts that of his group, and some that and didn't make it until the What they told me in they kind of figured That he was, there's no question because he had this in four minutes, that that really approached that. But, nonetheless, I'm it's a fairly complicated why he was first. And I think it's a because there's a lot of myth. There's a lot of myth but there's a lot of about why he was first. When I put up slides, I'm not You guys, hopefully you But here are five things that and explanations you can find in different books People believe that one of these And I'm going to say something about number one And that was, I was at where in the spring, when professorship created in And Senator Rob Portman from and he made the point, he said from the very beginning that Neil Armstrong was of the first landing mission. That he was so excellent that he was sort of Well, I wasn't about quarrel with Congressman I might quarrel with him but that just isn't true. I mean, it's not true, and will lay that out for you. And then number five, which out there the most, because this to the press, and even to their Is that what dictated so it's not just the issue of who's commanding the lunar to be the first one which became a big deal, that it of the interior of With Neil standing of course there weren't Didn't need to have seats. And Buzz was standing on down here and opening And so what was explained to if you ask Buzz Aldrin today he would talk to you It was really dictated by the And how difficult it would and have Buzz go out first. My book and what I'll, in a to get that far today in my that was a smoke-screen. It really was, it wasn't the It was other things. So, hopefully I'll have time Now the question, why was Neil historical question, and we and about the Apollo It's a different kind of about the Wright brothers. Why Wilbur and Orville? Another very significant I think historians have done I mean, how these two bicycle neither with a high to solve the problem Figure out how to than air machine Why they were able to do it when and scientists around the that problem failed at it. That's a very interesting but it's not the Christian could give You can have him Charles Lindbergh. Why Charles Lindbergh? You know, why was he first? Well, that's maybe not as you know, in terms of across the Atlantic first. I think more significantly than why did Lindbergh have the and society that he had? What was it about, you About the solo performance Why, in 1927, was that Lindbergh became I'll say more about Lindbergh because there's a connection that becomes important. But why Neil is a Neil and I, I actually talked in We talked about, you We talked about Lindbergh, and as Neil was a very to aviation history at You know, he understood that Lindbergh's achievements The Wright brothers, in a way, not that they didn't have and the correspondence The Wrights learned a but in a way their achievement Neil understood that was in a different framework than those other two Because there had been in government, in industry been a national program, at the top of the but it was this huge pyramid. Or maybe a better metaphor where you only see the But that mass under the water which doesn't get seen Neil understood that there were that were so significant, and as much attention as he did. He did one interview when the book came out in 2005. He was interviewed Actually, Walter Cronkite came down to be part of They met at Cape Canaveral, which was really delightfully that watched it and that it was classic Neil, I wasn't chosen to be to command that flight. Circumstance put me in And to some, that might just and he was a modest that wasn't part of it. But I think, even more than the reality of how this What the reality of And he knew that there wasn't to be the Apollo 11 commander. He was just one of the and depending how and things might develop in in a way that one could expect. Or there could be a lot of wild that happened to change. And Neil understood all of that, so that's when he said I mean, he understood his role and first man on the moon. But to have the kind of focused and iconography that And a lot of it that he would without in his years after 1969. You know, he was when he said I just don't Here again, in the it was an effort Hundreds of thousands Just one very short anecdote. You know, when I started you know one thing I asked him of the early, because I sort of from his family background. So, I didn't talk about Apollo for probably 30 hours But, I asked him, I was going who should I talk to in Houston? And I thought he was go find you know, Gene Krantz. You know, go find Gene Cernan. Go find Chris Craft. And I did want to go find all first and foremost, you need Emil Schiesser? Who in the hell is I had no idea who he was, and I thought he was But Emil Schiesser and was this really, really who worked in mission planning. And Neil was totally serious. You need to talk to Emil that nobody had ever probably of learning about But from Neil's point-of-view, that was critically And there are others, I mean, you know, was not a list that The story of how the to Armstrong being in the of Apollo 11 really comes down And if you're a young person and you haven't studied the Deke Slayton is a crucial part of the early US-manned He was one of the seven along with Gus Grissom and and Carpenter and so forth. But he had, the doctors found A murmur that needed to, he And so he didn't get to fly. And he was the one that didn't get to fly. He later got, eventually, of the Apollo Soyuz The docking with the cosmonauts. But what they gave him than he probably would've and that was he became the And he was in charge of Here you see him with of the other original seven. And Deke's principle, how I lay it out in the book. His idea was that you get a when you're putting on the top line, you're You know, here are You know, once you've you know then you can fill in and get the crews But, first and foremost, and the commanders From Deke's point-of-view, to be trained up for special like they all ended up doing But the idea was of the same general and leadership that, you and if missions got shifted where you thought you had them out and you have to If you get the right commanders, down the path towards In Slayton's memoir, which after he died, so we still on Deke Slayton. I think a real biography but in that memoir, Deke you know of course, Gus of the original seven and he'd flown Mercury, Gemini. He was part of Apollo 1. Of course he's going to die in January 1967 along with And in the memoir, if Grissom had been alive I to make him, put him in command Now, some historians that Deke would've virtually, Would've made sure that commander of a lunar I don't think that's I think he actually had that Gus was a great commander, but I don't think that we just looked at, I of those under commanders Deke would not have manipulated or the missions to to be the lunar landing I just don't think but he did have a special feel So, here it could have been Any of these guys in Frank Borman, Jim Pete Conrad, Jim Lovell. And April 1967, this is a few Of course the fire is in NASA history. Some felt, I mean there were into this. Some thought that, you know, maybe the Apollo program It was just, because it had made It had killed three astronauts on the launchpad The fire meant that the that North America to be totally redesigned, But it wasn't just the redesign it really gave pause for about a year and a half. Where they could go back You know, they had been moving through the Gemini missions Now, they had to call time Let's rethink. Let's get things, make But they couldn't wait around in because they wanted to get of the decade. President Kennedy had made Land astronauts on the by the end of the decade. So that was the mandate but this is the way that Certainly, the way the and how the crews were going Virtually, you know, it but you saw what the A The B mission was going to be C, the first command module D, the manned command and lunar module E mission, the first landing and then there were plans beyond which were going when exploration So, all this was laid out, we do A successfully, then Move on to C. It's an systematic, you know, make sure we move on to the next step. Well, in terms of this is how it looked You know, what Deke had Now, it's going to like this, but that's my point. At that point in time, Apollo with Eisele, Schirra Then 8 was going to That's Dave Scott there, so my of the appearances necessarily. Apollo 9, interestingly, Anders and Mike Collins. And then, these are Cernan, Conrad, Armstrong. Armstrong was in a backup. Borman on the Apollo 9, which Okay, now that was what as they were moving and projecting what we were on quickly once 1968 And then actually get The later crews at this point, F and G mission were Oftentimes it seemed if somebody did 8 then three be that crew's mission again. So, one could kind but a lot of things could get Now, here was the first in that kind of blew The lunar module, by Grumman wasn't ready. And of course, the mission, for the lunar module to Well, it's not ready. It's not ready to fly. So, do you sit around and wait Do you pause the program? Or do you do something else? And here comes a guy One of the real giants A great engineer from Rensselaer managing the space-flight, the Low comes up with this proposal, so why don't we just and service module around the moon and back? Let's do a circumlunar flight, I mean, I use the It's just that, I out of Earth orbit yet. You know, we've just had a a few months back that caught on in 100% oxygen atmosphere when they shouldn't have been of combustible stuff that shouldn't have been So, they were still but Low comes up and says, because the Russians are they're still planning on There is this thing The Cold War was still going on. So, Low said, you you know let's do And so, that gets embraced. NASA says yeah, let's And that becomes Apollo 8. So the order of things and what had been and the Apollo 9 backup and backup crew of Apollo 8. We have Borman, Anders Armstrong, Aldrin So they get put together for the circumlunar mission which takes place And for those of you that are that remember Christmas 1968. A very memorable Christmas Eve. They're orbiting from the moon. We have televisions from down at the lunar surface. They're reading from which ends up causing There's a famous American who thinks government on astronauts going and reading So that gets part of the hoo-hah But it's a beautiful mission. 1968, for those of you I was a junior in high school. [ Laughter ] Was a really, you want to Robert Kennedy is assassinated. Martin Luther King's The democratic convention You know, Vietnam, I think So we're starting to lose The protests against it. There's race riots. You know, it's a But some people say I forget the newsman who first made the comment, but it said that You know, that it was such an and I don't think anything from all of that tragedy. But it was a very strong, They do circumnavigate. They do get back safely. It's a wonderful mission, So, after 8's over, now we go with Dave Scott, McDivett And this is doing the the lunar module's finally We're going to test it in Make sure it's working in for the moon with it. So, that's successful Then May, we have number of a complete dress It is basically doing everything Descending, you know, detaching taking the lunar module 50,000 feet of the And then realizing, well, We've done everything, And so, that's the and that was very successful. So again, that's May, for the first time. That you've moved through F, the the next crew is going to be If these other missions hadn't If they had to repeat If 8 hadn't become the audacious then it's very possible that Eleven might have done 12 might have been the Pete Conrad would have There are two factors changing that's worth mentioning. Frank Borman, after Apollo 8, You know, his wife, of Frank being in danger. Taking all this time And Frank decides, you know, a pretty extraordinary career as president of Eastern That doesn't go so And then, you have a Collins has a spinal and so he had done a and Deke Slayton liked him a out of the rotation for a while. But then the idea, so, the remember, this was the group Originally, it was going to but Collins' back surgery and that's how Lovell came in. So, if Collins hadn't had the on 8, and Lovell would have had Well, knowing that Lovell could've been placed for the back problem So, here again, Lovell of the Apollo 9 backup, because of the Collins surgery. Deke wants to get Collins back into the rotation as So, as soon as he's healed into the prime crew Now this is an interesting which believe it or who knew this story to me was Deke Slayton and Neil. The night of Christmas Eve Borman and Anders were at mission control Houston, of the back rooms and says, of expected given the way But that, you are And 11, very likely, 11 could be the landing. So, Deke has this Neil knows he's going Deke wants to know Of course, he's been training. He's had Aldrin with him. He's had Fred Haise with him. Deke doesn't think for the prime crew assignment, and Collins is now healthy to put Collins into the picture. So that's how Collins and Haise gets pushed back. The other interesting I have to see what Yeah, here we go. That same night, when he told he asked Neil do you want In which case, we'll put And I think there's two One, high respect for Lovell. Two, not every commander Let's just face the facts. Frank Borman had made it clear when I interviewed him down Borman had told Deke, do I'm not going to work with him. And there were other commanders who had reservations Not because Buzz was A very competent and intelligent of Buzz's personality that bothered a lot So, here it is, what Deke to bump Buzz off of his crew. And what does Neil say? I think this was that night, can I Can I think about it overnight? Well, you know, that sort of tells you something I mean, Neil's going He comes back to Deke the and he tells Deke two things. He says, one you know, Buzz has you know, I'm okay with Buzz. And I think Neil was probably to be put under honestly. I think, that Neil's such that he could handle Buzz of the other commanders So, that was part one, but I of Neil's answer Lovell deserves a Instead of making him lunar when he gets back from 8, you That's my advice to you. So, I think as much as wanting to make sure Buzz I think Neil was more concerned Lovell knew nothing and of course Buzz, none Neil never told this and Deke never wrote about it. And when Neil told me I interviewed Lovell of Fame banquet in Dayton, Ohio. And I asked Lovell if he knew that this conversation and that he had had a chance, of those who walked And Lovell said he Neil had never told And I asked him, I said, well that you're going to command to the moon, you I said, wouldn't you have with Neil and be on the crew And he said well, and very attractive notion, but I think maybe I You know? And of course, we as did his other crew members. But I think that's So, it became Armstrong, The backup for 11 was and so they now after they move forward They know that they're going you know, and it's going And again, to put this back into you know, Neil is aware of all that lead up to his in the right place But he knew that it that put himself there. That if circumstances it could've easily been one And so, that explains That he just doesn't that a lot of people gave him. Now, up to this point, and is explaining the in Armstrong being, you know, being the commander And it was the first You know, having said all I need to emphasize that Neil I mean, as I said to you I mean, you look at I mean this guy's Could anybody be better of flying that he'd been doing? You know, especially but this guy had proven himself. He was a true, he was He was a research There was one line in, so I'm not quarreling with to use it to make a point. There's one line in Neil approached the to the engineers My objection to that phrasing in that narration is It isn't like he went over to who they were or how they think. He was, first and foremost, So, when he went to they weren't just talking to to a guy who had an aeronautical and knew engineering So, he was one of It wasn't like he was doing My biography, of course, goes and that's what biographies And if you're really trying to and why he was in the position you know I believe that the You know, you have to What kind of community What his parents were like. I mean, I think all you can't understand the of an individual without One point I want to make with to be celebrating his of August, right, couple days. He would've turned 87. He was born in August 5th 1930. One thing that, I say this half on the first crew to land on the moon unless You had to be born in because Aldrin, Collins and Now, you could say, well with us here, but the where all of us are born in a and space, and if they I think Glenn was born around they would have probably for the lunar mission. If they'd been born in 1935, they would have been a They were born at a time World War II begins for They were 11, so they They're not in the but they have that I mean, Neil's a part of the airplanes for civil You know, and then in an immediate post-war period. Then Korea breaks by that time he's about airplanes, He got his pilot's This is what the little grass where he learned how to fly when He goes to Purdue in 1947. He had skipped a year so smart and so well read. I think he skipped second grade. So he graduated, he He is on a scholarship from has to take some And more importantly, when out in 1950, he has He gets called on to Pensacola, He becomes a naval of my very favorite This is what he looked like on after his very first I wish I had a close-up of like he's about, what, but it's just a remarkable And he then goes on, he gets put He's the youngest member of that and he flies 78 combat missions. This is a point that, if out there today, you're just It's just a fact, that six of for the lunar landings Dave Scott was the And the man who picked was Deke Slayton, and what United States Air Force. So, you know, make I had a really nasty letter after my book came out. He said, you know, that he aviators were any better or couldn't have done And I didn't argue with Deal with it. For some reason, you know, is of a naval aviator, landing on carriers. You know, maybe there but that's just what happened. So, here's Neil as He flew panther jets in Korea. Little arrow's pointing to him. Incredible experience. Extremely formative, and for his squadron mates that were of Japan when these raids and and all they did in North Korea. Neil would go to every reunion He was a very reluctant attendee at the reunions of He really had a strong They took such great And then, of course, And since you know Again, the only one who had done any flying in This is one of the larger points and get questions from you. I mean, I could go on. You could spend the but I don't think you're [ Laughter ] But you know, in literature you get these stories that, to the moon came out of that was looking at the stars and dreaming about other worlds. And there were stories to be true stories that people That Neil was really and that he was going to through telescopes every night. Turns out that these stories to be part of Neil's story. Neil didn't do those things. Neil was the, remember of the passion for airplanes. He was the model-builder. You know, he was the guy having taking some of the models he turned them into Test-flight articles. He had taken them up to and told them how he wanted And so his little brother out his models, and he's with popsicle sticks marking where the glide path And keeping track in a And then picking them all up, And then sometimes if they on fire and he'd throw them I mean, that was beyond You know, test program But here he was, a at age eight or nine-years-old. He became, his path to the moon landings wasn't and the science-fiction of the technology of flight as through the second World War. The arrival of jets and rockets. The capabilities of and faster into the atmosphere. Doing the X-15 program, that could take spacecraft Neil was part, and that's why he was like perfectly, those with the evolution And so, that helps to Now I want to go back to because I started like I have to stop with it. Here we go. Which one of these do of in questions and answers. Maybe I should at least say The way that the interior of the way it was set about how two astronauts Once they had their EVA which were pretty The wall of the LEM was so through it at different places. And it had fuses and and there was a real concern around inside the LEM, if that they could damage And they didn't want to do that. They didn't want to do that. So when Slayton explains to the as to why the commander he uses this technical Well, the way the hatch for the commander to go out, to go around, you know, So we're just doing And the reason it was an issue well, doesn't the commander Well there had been a precedent where the first space in the United States program, that the commander and the other guy went The commander was supposed So, as they moved that precedence set by Gemini. And in the press, and even among of thinking well, you know, this Maybe we'll do it in And Buzz liked that precedent. He thought that was a And he thought that's Well, the fact of the matter is, and then I'll stop I interviewed Alan And Bean was Buzz Aldrin He was Pete Conrad's Buzz. And I said to him, well, of the LEM dictate He said Jim, that was all BS. He said it would If they wanted the lunar we would have just, before we with the backpack, when we're still just kind of in we'd just walk and And then we put on our stuff. I could have been on that and could have been right out. So there was no reason in of the LEM, if they wanted it could have happened, So that's one point. Second point, and this that was a revelation There was a meeting between George Low, who you've the audacious proposal Bob Gilruth, the head of that king Johnson Space Center. Chris Craft who was And Deke Slayton, chief And they had this you know, told me about this. That it was a meeting about to the guy that was first out. And they knew that to be world famous, was going He's going to be on one to step out on It was going to be another who knew what all But they were convinced this person was going to for the rest of his life. And who did they Neil Armstrong, modest, no ego. They were confident he would or exploit the celebrity, Or you had Buzz Aldrin, that Buzz was a quite And it was unanimous, they there wasn't like a They all agreed, it Neil's the perfect guy for this. You know, we can trust him. He'll handle this Buzz, he's, we don't know And so there was this decision. And of course, Deke that meeting and tell, well really tell anybody He couldn't go to the we've decided it's going because we just don't I mean, you can't And you can't go I mean if you're going because he had been going to and trying to campaign behind well shouldn't that Gemini And, you know, I'm a lot Neil's not going to go out there the space program needs And so Buzz, behind the scenes, Although he denies a lot of of this in later years. But, you know, Slayton couldn't we just don't trust you. You know, it's got to be Neil. So they stayed with They stayed with, oh it's just by the interior of the LEM. And, you know, it's, And I think a lot of But it's amazing, again, if And even if you talk When I did talk to Neil about of focus on that Because he didn't, I guess about the story of Because that did come Civilian, that's the There are still people because he was a civilian. Well, he was a civilian at the Apollo 11 mission. But he had been a combat And he had, you know, resigned in the late 50s early 60s. So he was an active military. And there was, the well this makes sense. We're in the Cold War. NASA's a civilian agency. Apollo's not a military program. So it must make sense for as the main figure first man on the moon, civilian. Well, the historians into this are quite confident to do with the choice. It really had to do, you know, of how those crews lined and why mission needed Now, it maybe had some unintended benefits you know, he's a civilian. But NASA never really and it was just really as something they thought So, I'm out of time. I'm beyond time, I think. So, you know, my wife when I about nothing but Neil. She gave me this rule about him once per meal. But she didn't give So, even with time limits, you So Cam, is there time for to tell them to go back to work? &gt;&gt; I wouldn't make them So I do have a question for you. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; You are the author of the only authorized Did anybody else think And how did you get &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think there were I'm still, I'm doing another there are over 80,000 letters in the archives at Purdue. I'm going to publish book in the anniversary year Letters to the First So I've seen, I've read and some of them I mean, it gives you of what he had to go through. Because people were I mean, they were never happy. And if they didn't get what they back to him. The letters are really, They came from all And some of the letters I mean, they're wonderful But, to answer Cam's question, I found letters from, you from James Michener, from Norman Mailer wanting to write So, authors much more qualified, than me, got turned on by Neil. And I was turned on originally. It's a long story, I won't up that I got to do it. I think in the end, bottom line, And I had a background, David was kind enough to and Spaceflight Revolution NAC and NASA Langley's And I had shared And I think Neil became some day he needed to He needed to agree to something He was 70, I think, when And that I had a background and writing about flight and he knew that I wasn't going So I think, again, I think I caught him I also grew up, you know, he I grew up in Northeastern about 50 miles from Wapakoneta. And my accent even, and Neil's And he came from I came from a farming family. He lived in Ohio, I lived in Indiana, You know, and in fact, to Columbus goes right So all through graduate school Museum, never thinking So it just, I just lucked out. It was the biggest And getting to know him, of tape recorded You know, most people got lucky to have any interview And if they did get it, I mean, they had to immediately What did you feel like when And it was just like the last to be asked for the Well I talked to 35 hours before I said anything about the moon or We were talking about the navy. We were talking about And he'd much rather, some of know that he'd much rather talk to do with the space program. And like I said, he would go you know, they'd have to to an astronaut event. So I think I caught and for whatever reason, I had the right toolkit and And the biggest compliment, which I think is a huge This was his compliment to me And that was Jim, he shook you wrote exactly the book you That may not sound like but you got to remember, this to trick into, and and tell him one for his whole life And for somebody to do and do exactly what I told and what's really remarkable many remarkable things, is all he did was answer He never said, now Jim I Or Jim, I don't want He just answered my questions. I would send the or three days' worth You know, then we'd wait I'd go back to Cincinnati. And if I didn't, if I and done enough research to know what the I wouldn't have gotten I mean Neil only answered So if there was something that of view, well there There was just, and that's and some people did, There's this gorgeous picture of kind of looked like Neil as of my biography to Neil, you on his face is like, to tell this little boy I'm So if you wanted him he would say, it's not my book. It's Jim's book. I don't sign Jim's So that's just Neil. And no other astronaut of would have given an to write exactly what I wanted I mean, I got help from him. I wanted his help. I wanted to make sure I had So we'd go over every chapter. But he gave me an amazing And for that reason, I think it's a special because you just aren't going And not too many people, you know, just let some author Any other questions? &gt;&gt; So I want to ask on maybe any thought, of course Neil the training vehicle, &gt;&gt; Absolutely. &gt;&gt; I think that was So first time for a LEM, I'd almost pick him. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I agree with you. And I would put that into that where I was talking I mean, it's certainly no one not just with the I mean Neil will have a, You know, he's going to have to of 1968 before it explodes. But he's involved of the lunar landing research And so that gives him that the other ones didn't have. Now I don't remember, I can't from NASA ever that said But certainly in the mix of that would be, you know, So I think that's But even with all of that, even though he was, to say he was maybe the best one I think from going back to that if it had worked out missions flipped, crew I think Deke would have in Pete Conrad doing it or So as inevitable and ordained to us today that it one thing that I believe I think all historians do, things didn't have And they certainly didn't have There are reasons why they did. And that's what historians all the different factors that But sometimes you have to sort Why the, the what ifs, why they weren't taken. And I think history when you see it as almost That things happen from events occur. I mean what would have happened What if the Americans had and we would not have which sort of launched All kinds of things if Sputnik had not been first. So that's a chaos moment. Anybody else? Yeah, over here. &gt;&gt; So I was just curious, over 50 hours of interview time? &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Are they available &gt;&gt; They are. They are in the Purdue archives. All of my research And all of Neil's And Purdue is digitizing. All my recordings are But they are digitizing. They might be finished with it. And I promoted a concept, and I but you know, here was a guy to through most of the years Not doing interviews. And he was hardly a recluse. He made lots of appearances, but And there was a lot didn't want to talk about. But I had this idea that that Neil ever said, with him, make it digital. Anybody from any computer on to the Purdue website and type a question And up would come Neil giving with maybe some supporting Now, that would really me pulling a trick You weren't available to us you know, we're going your instant attention But Purdue thinks that's kind of that kind of immediate access. So, and the technology is there &gt;&gt; Did Neil ever comment about with Buzz during the to the landing time, or? &gt;&gt; He was, I certainly And there were certain Their approach to simulations There was one famous simulation when the lunar landing If you've ever seen of the HBO mini-series where they actually And Buzz had an approach to win the simulation. Neil thought you from the simulation And so Neil would sometimes farther than Buzz And there was one famous the simulator crashes, it's clear that they're And Buzz is really And Neil has to, you know, Neil doesn't always He didn't feel like he needed but this sort of And Buzz was telling Buzz was talking to and what had happened. And it got noisy enough that and tells him to quiet it down. And then sort of does I pushed it as far as I did not only how we were but how were the flight How is the whole mission if we kept pushing it? You know, so we learned from that simulation, and that's not to win every simulation. So there was that. And I guess I could quickly show that summarizes Neil's Yeah, I may see it. I'm sorry I'm going through a this one I can't say Yeah, there you go. [ Laughter ] That's kind of, you know, although I would say it's portrayal, because I think at Neil wanting an answer. And Neil would not, and you know, that. And then there's, of that I won't be going into. You can read about But there's the issue, I didn't get to a lot of slides. There's the matter of on the lunar surface. Is that Neil or Buzz? It's Buzz. Is that Neil or Buzz? Buzz. Is that Neil or Buzz? Buzz. Whose footprint is that? Buzz. Some people think that Neil had the so Buzz couldn't take pictures. Buzz had the camera, and He took pictures of You know, when I asked him pictures of Neil that you He took some great ones of you. And Buzz said, I but it wasn't in It wasn't in the mission plan. And I said, well was to take a picture of your foot? No, that wasn't in the And this was Gene Kranz, when Gene said, I don't To me, that's something that they didn't have, that and there are not Buzz didn't take any. You're going to have, about that I said, He said oh, Buzz was a lot more Typical Armstrong And there's the story, if I had you know, I'll just finish Here he is when he was NASA for aeronautics. Of course, he went to He was a key figure. He was the vice-chair of A very, very important role. He really did a lot Here he is at a shuttle with his second wife, Carol. Was he the best possible Well, I think so. Behind the icon was a that's who I got to know. He's very three-dimensional, to know beyond the icon. A couple more pictures. This is at the National His wife, his son, Buzz is here. John Glenn's in the picture. I'm somewhere halfway back. I attended both this and the That's my favorite Maybe you can't recognize of hair and the coloring. But this was outside of after the book was finished. You know, I think as a to stay independent and unemotional and But I really got And, you know, I hope it I don't think it does. But you know, I kind of one I don't have a lot They're hard work. And secondly, I don't think of somebody that's living unless that's not expected His death in 2012 And in my new edition of out in a year or so, I'm dealing of his life and his death. You know, he died after a heart you know, the details of exactly have been withheld from And I certainly abide by that. But it was tragedy to lose him. And it would have been of 11 could have when we celebrate And so, thank you and hope you learned a little but about Apollo and about such an incredible place. You've had a major, major role, you know, he probably wouldn't on the moon. This experience here was so So, thank you very much. [ Applause ] &gt;&gt; Thank you Dr. Hansen, We do have a couple One is a Center Coin. &gt;&gt; Oh, super. &gt;&gt; Armstrong Center Coin. &gt;&gt; Oh excellent. Yeah, thank you. &gt;&gt; You're very welcome. That commemorates the &gt;&gt; Yeah, fantastic. Oh my goodness. Oh my goodness. &gt;&gt; It's a model for It says to Dr. James R. Hansen at the Neil A. Armstrong Edwards, California. &gt;&gt; Oh my, I'll hold it for a [ Applause ] That is fantastic. Thank you. I had a conversation with and he was giving a down in Arizona called And he had a model of the, but he had a model of the X-15. I was talking to him about So he was moving the X-15 around and turning it different And so, oh this is terrific. Thank you so much. I appreciate it from everyone. &gt;&gt; I think we'll have time if you have a few minutes. &gt;&gt; I'd be happy to, yeah. &gt;&gt; So thank you. This is the end of the program, and have Dr. Hansen Thank you again. [ Applause ] &gt;&gt; That's terrific. Certainly unexpected. &gt;&gt; I'll leave it here.