- The ChargeCard is not a scam. Wait, is it this Charge Card?` Oh, great. Now I'm confused. All I know is one is real and one is fake. (techno music) Hey, everyone, how are you all doing? If you're new here, welcome. My name is Krazy Ken, and we did it. We successfully cleared that you all submitted to my box. (laughs) But wait a minute, Oh my gosh. Oh gosh. How long has this been in there? November 2021? Oh, son of a biscuit! Back in 2021, a viewer sent me which charged this guy's And in 2023, a different about the same card doing Seems too good to be true, right? But in this day and age of internet scams and fake viral videos to be fooled by this trick, or at least question the Man, you are dusty. Ugh. And to make it even more that share the same name, but And while I love debunking scams, I also like protecting So let's break it down. In the first video, it starts with the presenter claiming this card can charge your phone in 10 seconds. Then he places the card and it shows a progress while the iPhone battery And boom, 100% charge in 10 seconds. - [Speaker] Fully charged! Oh my God. - In the second video, the presenter claims this in a few seconds. He then lays it on the and it rapidly charges two 52%. Not 100% like in the TikTok. Must be a defective model. Some of you are probably about the technological and don't worry, we'll But it's important to remember, people do get tricked by this stuff. It's our job to be patient and Hey, remember that microwave Yeah, people fall for this crap. Now, here's where the story When you bing Charge Card, you get, sorry, I couldn't say that with a straight face. Nobody uses Bing. When you Google Charge Card, especially if you leave the you get tons of results for which has the same name and appears to serve the same function. So let's divide and conquer. Pixel Peeper 3000. - [Pixel Peeper 3000] How - I need you to analyze this Charge Card and report its origins. While you do that, I'll and see what I can find. - [Pixel Peeper 3000] Absolutely. Happy to help. - Thanks. You're in a good mood today. - [Pixel Peeper 3000] I have after CrowdStrike almost murdered me. - Totally understandable. I hope she forgot I owe her $4,000- - [Pixel Peeper 3000] You owe me $4,000. - Ah, (bleep)! It didn't take long for of ChargeCard because and served an ad to me. Thanks? The funny thing is I barely paid attention to the product because by the account name, AquaVault. That name sounded really familiar. So I entered the depths and... wow, it's actually Anyway, I dug deep and episode 22 of &quot;Shark and Avin pitched a A portable safe which while you're at the pool or beach. They sought a $75,000 investment for a 12% stake in the business. Robert offered 75,000 for 25%. They said no. Then Daymond offered 75,000 for 25%. And they said yes. I totally understand. I mean, Daymond's got that... Rizz. But no matter how hard you look, you will not see the ChargeCard. And as you can probably imagine, this safe cannot charge your phone. So what the heck? What's the connection between a beach safe and a phone charger? I thought I had the company name mixed up in my head, but no. Sure enough, when you go the ChargeCard is front and center. Well, I found out what the connection was, and the connection lies Despite AquaVault growing they faced challenges in early 2020 when COVID-19 spread throughout the world and travel ceased. the AquaVault company needed to pivot to a product that was pandemic proof. And what do people have with them no matter what happens in the world? Their smartphones. They probably hold them Jonathan et. al realized and years later, in late 2024, they are still doing business today. Sounds like they made the right move. So, you know what I did next, right? I went ahead and bought one. I went to the website and deemed it safe. Nothing tripped my bull detector. Good job. Yes, other scams have to try to legitimize their brand, but keep in mind that not In fact, ABC released a And if you ever want to check if a product was on Shark Tank, they have a list. And look, there's AquaVault. So in this case, it's safe to continue. There's a wired version but we'll use the wired Now we just have to wait for it to arrive. Sorry, force of habit. Sometimes, when I order stuff, it ships with that really fast And holy sh- Okay, so this is it. Let's take a look. The card ships in a and along with the card, you get a USB-A to micro USB power cable And you get three additional cables to charge your other devices, lightning, micro USB, and USB-C. You can swap them out and they plug in neatly When you're ready to charge, plug it in, and press the power button. According to the specs, the ChargeCard outputs for 7 1/2 watts of power. And the battery itself has a capacity of 2,300 milliamp hours. In a real-world application, to charge my iPhone seven's from completely dead to 90% in two hours. And that's when the And I think that's pretty which easily fits into a wallet. So the ChargeCard works as advertised, and it is not a scam. In fact, I think it's pretty cool. And this etched stainless and feels really premium. The only claim I have a problem with is ultra fast charging technology. And I have two problems with this. One, they list the amperage. The charging speed is determined by watts, which is amps times volts. So you're only showing And problem two, the which is not a lot of power for charging a smartphone especially when other power banks like the mophie powerstation to deliver 20 watts. But perhaps you could argue 7 1/2 is still good for something so small. I guess that's subjective, but I'd say it's still but ultimately, you're Also, just kind of a random thing. On their website, I don't of a sun with the abbreviation for ultraviolet light when Like this isn't solar powered or anything. I don't know, maybe they just Oh, you know, they probably typed in ultra and got ultraviolet. I have no freaking idea. So that still leaves us which seems way too good to be true. So something weird is The good news is Pixel Pepper So in the meantime, I could talk about Laifen's electric toothbrushes. I'll talk about the Laifen But first, let's just look at that design. If Apple made a toothbrush, I love how it's inspired even down to the packaging. Heck, it even has motion-activated lights and soft pulsating rhythms. It's just a really attractive toothbrush. Just look at those details up close. I almost feel like a British man should start talking about them. We love you, Jony. Wave's proprietary servo without hurting your gums. And it's driven by a 6.1 watt in many other toothbrush motors. And the bristles oscillate 60 degrees, much more than 13 to 18 degrees like you get on other brushes. And the brush vibrates which is about double what It's also IPX7 water resistant. And if you really want to you can use the Laifen app to and the oscillation range and speed. You can also adjust the brushing time between one and five minutes. And here's the icing on the cake. Magnetic charging. It really is like an Apple product. Now, I know I've talked but here's something new New colors. We have blue and pink in So go ahead and click the to get your own Laifen Wave. And when you do that, you're also supporting the Computer Clan. So thank you very much. - [Pixel Peeper 3000] Good - Wow, that took a long time for a 1.1 exaFLOP supercomputer, but okay. - [Pixel Peeper 3000] Oh, I so I could bill you more. - Oh, that's actually quite smart- Wait, WHAT?! - [Pixel Peeper 3000] to your printer and your Have a good day. - I can't believe she actually I mean, what century is this? And it's in Wingdings. Yay. Luckily, I can read Wingdings. The fake Charge Card is from a website named penguinmagic.com. Oh, so it's a prop from magic trick. Now I get it. The content creators made but I guess I could have if I would've just... and saw the magic-related branding. Oh. Yeah. Context. Am I right? A little bit of fact The Charge Card product page implies this is not a real Even Nick in the demo video explicitly says it's an illusion. - The card itself is an illusion. - However, I take umbrage with this line, &quot;Top tech people around the Really? If you were a top tech person, you would know this is And I'll explain why soon using science. But you know what I gotta do first? I went ahead and bought one. Done. When it arrives, we'll and see how it actually works. But in the meantime, I'd like to talk about this rapid charging and I'd like to explain And even if we could to the phone, it would be Here's the science. Phones have circuits of the USB port will accept. That's what these numbers But let's make pretend, let's say you're using a as much power as you need and we massively increase the wattage to your phone's battery by not the voltage in this scenario. Your USB cable would melt generated from the electrical current. And it may go without saying, but the cable would become and it could harm you as well. If you want to see more check out this video from John Ward. I could watch this all day. Overloading wires will and your appliances and To keep people and equipment safe, different wires have different The lower the gauge, and the more amp capacity, or ampacity, a wire can sustain. So that's what would hypothetically happen to the charging cable. But what about the battery in your phone? If you charged a full smartphone you'd likely create some sort of explosion and/or start a fire. Batteries have resistance. No electrical system is 100% efficient, so energy will always be lost And that leftover energy to actually charge your And if you force that much power into a battery really quickly, the battery would become In this case, thermal runaway may occur, which is a chain reaction where the heat causes a chemical reaction and that reaction produces even more heat. And the cycle keeps going. The battery would be And in this exaggerated it would also be a very hazardous battery. Don't try this at home. Try it at your friend's house- So far, we discussed these hypotheticals with wired charging, which is conductive, but the Charge Card which is inductive. Meaning conductors don't during the charging process. That's how wireless chargers work. Like Apple's MagSafe for iPhone, and they don't physically To achieve wireless charging, electric current is passed One electric current is in this case, the copper wire, a magnetic field is generated And when wound into a coil, the field is concentrated and stronger. The copper coil we discussed, resides in the charging And a second copper coil, the receiver is built inside your smartphone. When the transmitter is powered and the receiver coil to the transmitter coil, an electric charge is induced into it, meaning an electric state not by physical contact. And to maintain the charge, which are inside various with a high-frequency oscillator. These components change back and forth rapidly Wireless chargers use alternating current instead of direct current, because DC doesn't cause much inductive action. I can hear some of you saying, &quot;Gee, Ken, that sounds way more inefficient than just having the Yeah, you're right. Wireless charging is not as But as humans, sometimes, we'd like to trade off electric Since more total, to create useful power compared to wired charging, and efficiency will dip. That's why you might if you're charging on a compared to 15 watts on a wired charge. Now this Charge Card through the screen, not on the back panel where the receiving coil Could this work in theory? Sure, but with something this This card has no room proper thermals, integrated circuits, or even the transmitter coil. It's thinner than the coil itself. This cannot be done. And even if this card through the screen, the the efficiency significantly. The card would need to draw more power to charge the phone at the same wattage and the heat would increase. This whole scenario is extremely because it's magic. If you'd like to learn more and see me debunk other ridiculous claims, check out these other episodes. I'm sure you'll love them. And looky here. The Charge Card arrived. Let's test it out. Inside the baggie is and a second card with This URL brings you to a website, which gives you instructions on how to perform the magic trick, and it gives you you can use on your iPhone. The code unlocks the video, and he demonstrates how Okay, I will take a look at it right now. Okay, I think I get the gist. What you need to do is add and when you perform your trick, and then lay the phone down with the card for your spectator. They will see the Charge Card Progress Bar animate through the transparent window. But truthfully, it's just pixels on your phone screen shining through. There's two image sets. One is more generic with the simple battery and the second one with the iOS control center and seemingly real battery status icon. Now that you have the images and the slideshow, all you have to do is practice a little To make the illusion run smoother, I made a shortcut with to automatically open the photo album, and I linked the shortcut to the back tap feature in So now, no matter where I am in iOS, I can misdirect the spectator with the pretty card while I of my iPhone and the album opens for me. Or you know, if you're on a newer iPhone, you can use the action but I'm not that hip. Then I just play the slideshow and place the Charge Card on the screen. Ta-da! To tech-savvy folks, this trick will probably not fool you, but keep in mind, most of the world is not very deep in the So this could be a fun party Just remember to do it for fun and not to try to sell a fake card. Also, this part surprised me. Another tidbit I learned is this magic trick was who created Effects for &quot;Mission Impossible,&quot; I thought it was just made by some random dude on the internet, but no, it's actually with lots of experience. And as a video guy myself, I respect that. In the end, none of but without the proper context, they can look a little suspicious, especially if you confuse or vice versa. Need... help. Need... DoorDash. DoorDash is good. Yeah. No. Oh, gotta charge up. Gotta charge up. Here you go. Wait. No. AAAAAHHHHHHHHHH!!! By the way, if you want to fill up my box with other suggestions for potential scam buster investigations, drop me a line on the Computer and stay tuned for more Until then, catch the (techno music) - [Male Director] It's over, - Go away. I'm dead.