Literal first shot straight out of the box, Will the Montenegrin pistol work? That is a fantastic start. Thanks for tuning in to another I'm Ian McCollum, and this is the Tara Perfection TM-9. Now Tara Aerospace is a factory in Montenegro. If you are not familiar with Montenegro nestled comfortably between Albania to the south and Bosnia and Herzegovina to the north, There is one significant firearms It was formerly a government run arsenal, And it was purchased ... at least ... previously of Brugger &amp; Thomet. Bradley Cooper's character in <i> There's a reason he is not ... not the best reputation But Thomet sees this factory &quot;Ah, look how cheap that factory is down there in a particularly economically I can buy that factory, we can make pistols, And then we'll sell them at a tremendous profit to the Americans who will buy basically So the first pistol they come out with It has significant that Thomet probably didn't recognise or he might have thought twice But, ... I'm speculating here a little bit, I'm filling in some of the I suspect after making a the factory is in need of cash flow, And so the TM-9 is but they sell approximately 3,000 with the understanding that they are The US is an important, valuable, And you don't want to in the United States if you plan to So it's not clear if there that these wouldn't go to the US, or just Or maybe it was a one-sided understanding that But what ended up happening ended up buying them all Which came as a rude surprise So Century buys them stupid cheap. They are polymer framed, striker fired, that came with three And they were so cheap that Century &quot;You know, ... we really can't go wrong.&quot; Turns out they could go wrong. So they bring them into the country, and to see what they're dealing with and In particular they have problems with the So it'll feed part way, but not all the way. Spoiler - we're going to take or might not see exactly But Century is now kind of at a certain point they're so cheap how like actually work, so they Century is trying to figure out what to do with ... The retail store is Gander Mountain, Which was at the time buying And they were associated with an And the deal that went down was essentially Century will throw in And Gander will just have And so this sort of basically happens, except before ... Gander can &quot;You know what, actually screw it. We are getting out of Unclear if this was because of the or if it was just coincidental, But ... Gander is now sitting on 3,000 of having been at least to some extent And they're not going to sell them &quot;Hey, will you buy these back from us?&quot; And so Century agrees, and buys them back for Now Century once again is stuck with At this point they do start selling some And the American consumers who That even with the work that they were still not reliable guns most of the time. And this comes as very Tara never wanted these guns to be in the And the unspoken part here is to screw over its European customers. Which I can say I kind of understand from some Once a firearm crosses it can be really hard to send it Even with top level brands who would if they don't have an established European owners of that brand are going And in this case I suspect Tara was ... like, &quot;We're going to sell these to we don't care if they don't work because what There's not that big of a market for modern And what they wanted to do was to develop a better pistol where their brand reputation is more So they find out that their guns And this is a problem. And the explanation and I certainly don't want to be but if you go look at Tara's website from just a couple of the first batch of experimental TM-9 pistols They were not intended And someone got misled And they got sold in the US as real And you should not shoot and they should all come back or This being the excuse for why does Now, I defy you to show me what on earth on This to me sounds like because like I've seen guns ... designed Whether it's like the Russian style they are pretty clearly distinguishable from Also I've run 100 rounds most of them reliably, There's nothing to suggest that this Anyway, Tara is also at this point &quot;Like, we have the new one.&quot; And I'm pretty sure Which is also now available in I'm not sure who exactly is an improved version and Tara And Century is going back to them and basically because it's what we do, but you've that says that these first ones Because they are not going to hurt Well fairly recently Century And all the remaining stock was sold to ... (with pretty much this whole story explained on This one didn't actually come through I found it on GunBroker for which ... kind of like Century I figured, Now also in fairness, I recognised in It's funny, when Century bought and then they went to one of their representatives and said, &quot;Hey, ... we're looking at these And their rep went back and went, &quot;Oh jeez, And Century's response was, &quot;Well oops, we already So had they done they probably wouldn't have been But that's the whacky story behind and what it's gone through since it got here. Now mechanically this is a very It's a Browning action, so it's a The one thing that makes it a bit is the fact that it has a Now Tara calls this DARE, which is just marketing And the reason that it's ... The internal mechanism of the trigger can leave And by the way, double-action in its current state, the striker is all the way forward It is not protruding out of the breech face But this cannot conceivably fire Most striker-fired pistols made today have a striker that is ... basically So that's why if you dry fire a Glock you dry fire it once you get a click, if you Because ... you have to rack the slide On this the striker always Which means the trigger pull is responsible and fully compressing its spring That makes it simple and very safe, But it also means the trigger pull So most of the manufacturers out there a partially pre-cocked striker in Tara looked at it and Probably not because they but probably because they wanted a ... So, with that out of the way, let's go And then we'll take it out to the range It's not like it's only made for rubber The gun arrived in this little zip carry case, And Tara Perfection right there. Inside we've got a pistol And an instruction manual which we Take a look at the markings here, <i>Crna Gora</i> is Montenegro in Montenegrin, This being a polymer framed pistol, we have a metal insert with the serial Also Tara and <i>Crna Gora</i> on the frame itself. Our serial number up here, calibre 9x19, These are our ... US importer markings. It's worth pointing out that since this came out, Which is the tactical version (most of them basically The magazine is pretty standard typical stuff, It is nice that ... there is a witness so you can tell exactly ... how The only two controls here are the trigger and The mag release works from either side, There is no manual safety, and you may There is no trigger dingus in there, and that's So ... when the gun is at rest like this And pulling the trigger pulls the striker back, and there we go, there it fires. Now this does a couple of you'll see inside there are a lot fewer parts than It negates the need for a manual because the trigger pull is so long and so heavy that it really Like you'd have to drop this from to fire this trigger if it gets So it really is a safe system in that way. Good points to it. There are interchangeable Although mine didn't come with any different We've got three dot sights. so in theory if you want to The lock-up is totally standard, where the locking surface is the front of We do have a rail on the front And then to disassemble it. ... (If you are going to copy the Glock, well you We do have finger grooves on here, on To take it apart we are pivot the disassembly lever down slide goes forward, So let's start with the slide up here, we have We have a barrel. There's our striker. We have a safety here, so the striker can't come forward When I do push that down, the striker So we've got a back plate in here, and I can pry that out with a screwdriver. Polymer back plate. There's our striker assembly and its spring. Here is the extractor spring. So we take that out, and then the This looks a lot like a SIG extractor. So, there's your slide disassembled, And then the frame is There is a sheet metal piece in so the slide is not just And then the trigger mechanism So we've got this bar It's going to push the striker back with And then we've got the So it's a complicated looking one component here that comes So this little tab right there is the firing pin safety, If I turn this around, this tail right here is going to grab the bottom of the until at the very end of travel it It's kind of hard to see here, it drops, and that And you don't need a disconnector this has dropped down And the striker will not be held back, And so you have to release the trigger and So making sure that this only is really pretty simple on a system On a system this simple. So that's kind of it. We've got two more metal tabs And that's about all there is to it. There's basically all the It's a simple pistol to make, there's no reason it The trigger pull is a real user taste thing. The downside to it of course is and it's going to be accurately and effectively And that's why the lighter triggers are by far But if you want to totally max out on economising on the construction of So let's take it out to the range and see how Alright, let's do a little more shooting or if it breaks itself in, Just have to push it back into battery. There we go. I can actually feel the slide into battery as I release It's actually getting a little bit better. The back strap is a bit it's a little bit too square That blood blister by the way, There's a little secondary Alright, so, I am still holding the trigger back, ... So I think what's happening is And when I release the trigger Well, but not always. Oop. Interesting that if I fire it a little faster So. Alright, it is cool how simple ... Yes, pulled out that patch specifically Ah, it's a simplistic gun. Like there isn't anything revolutionary By going with straight double-action it ought to be fairly simple to For the price, like I mean I dunno, So I guess, what do you expect? But on the other hand, if it doesn't work [We came back for a second range session Holy cow, that trigger's heavy. Yeah, well. Alright, so two failures to The edge of the back strap knuckle of your thumb a little bit, The trigger is just super long. It really is a true double-action trigger. Which simplifies the gun, but it Just for kicks I've got a mini-Mozambique That's going to be a little harder. There's another. So you can see here the The slide is slightly too far back. And all it takes Also, it throws the brass directly back into my There you go, that's what's I apologise for the I was doing that weak hand one side But that's what we got going on here. Except it doesn't always come back. Right onto the microphone. It appears if I run the trigger I just don't hit as much because I'm Alright, didn't lock open on the mag. The malfunctions are ... multiplying now. That's really crazy, it's like literally But if you try and take a close, careful, like proper The gun is specifically Right in there! Every time, works flawlessly. Alright, well it did lock open. So there's your Tara TM-9 Thanks for watching.