Hello, this is Melts. I tried buying new wax. They were selling round and cute wax. I couldn't resist so I bought it. One size is bigger and it looks more like a bead and is even cuter. I looked for a 6-compartment case to put these in, but couldn't find one, so I bought an 8-compartment case. I will also add the other newly purchased waxes. First, let's test what kind of wax it is in a single color. Once I become familiar with this wax, I will decide whether to use it often in the future. It's very viscous. It also takes a very long time to melt. About 1.7 to 2 times that of other waxes. It's chewy so it bends well and doesn't leave marks or break when bent. After it hardened for a few days, I folded it in half and it didn't break. Originally, a sufficiently hardened wax seal would break if folded. It has a texture that is a mixture of a transparent glue stick and regular wax. We will cut it ruthlessly and melt it. I'm mixing it myself because the boundaries between different colored waxes don't mix well. Because the viscosity is high, the color spreads less. Chewy. I think you need to melt it over high heat for a long time to make it flow like water. A single piece of wax has a big presence. Can't you feel the viscosity even when mixing? The cat ripped all the leather off the sofa in our house with its claws. If I want to have a perfect sofa like this, I think I need to change it to a fabric sofa. Now that I think about it, my computer chair is made of fabric, and the threads on this too are torn. I'll just give up the sofa. That's a good thing, because the wax seal sofa is perfect. Get it right. The wax was large so I slightly cut the bottom. It's so pretty that it melts while leaving a flower shape. It is a translucent wax. I want to use the bottom of the flower I cut earlier. Instagram frame shape stamp. I recycled the plastic that something was packaged in and put it behind a wax seal. It's sloppy but cute. I should put it in my diary. No one will ever see the back of this. Cake shape stamp. It's not noticeable, but the icing on the top is divided from the side of the cake. I think light colors are more useful for this wax than dark colors. When I melted it over high heat for a long time, the sky blue color separated from the purple color. Can you see the white and yellow being slightly separated in ivory? Congratulations to all who won 'Watch Melts Video'. As you can see, the color changes slightly when melted. Some colors turn strange after being melted. Even when I mixed the separated colors again, it was a bit strange. Anyway, I'm going to use the newly purchased old-fashioned cell phone stamp. I don't tend to think too much when purchasing stamps. Some stamps I just put in my shopping cart and then throw away, but I could never give up on this one. Because it's so cute. I was going to paint just the strap silver, but my hands wouldn't stop working. Looking at this wax seal reminded me of my old phone, so I dug it out from deep in a drawer. A relic that is 15 years old. Many years have passed and I am now using a smartphone. Another new stamp. This is the moon in the middle. This is pink for the rabbit. Doesn't the wax look really sticky? Because it has high viscosity, it is a bit difficult to cut with a knife. I think matte wax is the easiest to cut like paper. I mixed some white and pink with translucent wax. cute. I will try other waxes as well. The peach wax was translucent and contained quite clear non-pearl wax. pretty. This stamp shopping was also successful. I want to make a patterned cat. It's not very successful. Cut the flowers and insert them. I think a bright, solid color would look better on a cat. Secretly replaced it with a yellow cat and completed. Traces of being horribly torn. I mixed colors to create the cookie color, but it seems to be a little more yellow than I expected. I'll use matte wax for the background. Then, wouldn't it feel more three-dimensional since only the cookies are shiny? This time, on the contrary, I made the engraved part on the inside matte. I'll try the background with new wax. Although things seemed to be going smoothly, there were some off-camera failures. Matte wax has a very low viscosity, so it doesn't fit well and often falls off. It's cute too. If the engraving is delicate, like this one, it is a good idea to use a glossy background. Very little new wax was included. I'm going to try it again because people liked the mix of transparent stick and regular wax I did last time. As expected, it is pouring irregularly. I like it because it looks like wave foam. I will use peach wax for the same stamp. It's so pretty because the translucent wax and colored wax are mixed appropriately. There are often wax seals that are filmed and then edited out of the video. Cute cotton candy color combination with cute hamster stamp. Wherever I am, cat hair inevitably goes with me. I secretly removed the cat hair caught on the spoon. The cotton candy color is cute. This product is unique. I put similar colors together in one bag, but the colors are very slightly different. It looks like the same forsythia color, but if I look closely, it's a little different. So it's fun to choose colors. Chewy texture. Since it's Christmas soon, I wanted to try that color combination. Because brown is behind yellow, the color becomes ambiguous. I mixed wax and recreated the soft color I like. This ribbon stamp is my favorite among the 500 or so stamps I have. Did you notice? I like it, so it appears often in my videos, but I'm consciously trying to use it less. It's so sticky that I feel pleasure when I tear the wax off the spoon. Traces of hard cutting. There are small silver glitters in it. I like the blush color. I'm going to make another one using this wax. Flower manufacturing in three colors. Cut it roughly and fit it in. I also made leaves. I like it better because the background is slightly translucent pearl and only the flowers are clear. Everyone, this is the end of today's video. It's a shame I didn't try the dark blue or black round wax, but I'll be sure to show you what I use next time! My favorite wax seals of the day are the moon and the rabbit. Please let me know your favorites too! Thank you for always watching. good night!