From supervolcanoes to mysterious event x's these are the times humanity almost went extinct. It can be tough to find a mate in today's high after the Toba Supervolcano event, when there adults left on the entire face of the earth. stride. Our brains were now basically the same shuttle and Fortnite - arguably a step backwards of Africa and started to spread around the and stone tools were today's Iphone. The world until we invented the wheel, space travel, But one supervolcano in Indonesia Sometime around 70,000 BC the resulting in one of the largest single event until Yellowstone blows its top sometime The eruption blew an astonishing 1700 cubic or the equivalent of 3 million Empire State half a foot thick (15 centimeters) falling all ash had suffocated all plant life and poisoned Being further away from the eruption however eruption had global consequences. The explosion so much that it actually blocked sunlight. of 3 to 5 degrees Celsius, or between some places the temperature fell as much This would be devastating for a lot of plant Even survivors well outside the blast zone would and snow which would poison water supplies. The upset migratory behavior of large animals, who local plant life. While it's likely very few the aftermath nearly doomed humanity to about 1,000 adult humans capable of breeding left, What's clear from the genetic record is humanity experienced a genetic bottleneck which Toba is believed to be the reason why so many and why today there's only one other than Bigfoot ofcourse. gene pool could have potentially set humanity If it wasn't for Toba you could have been enjoying instead of slaving away like a modern peasant. of humans, and lead to a world where only a If it weren't for Toba, there's a chance today's of humans, which would've been neat but probably other. So, you know, silver lining. Modern humans evolved a few hundred thousand years get that far down the evolutionary process. In history and help fill in some holes in the history as 'mobile genetic elements', or small bits of DNA Using a slide rule and a microscope- staff knows how genetic research works- of DNA to help piece together our genetic past. years ago something was seriously wrong with the genus including Homo ergaster and Homo erectus, Not in one area, but on the entire face of the total capacity of Rome's coliseum, and about how How could several highly successful species have evidence proves that our ancestors were living been using stone tools. There are two theories. wiped humanity off the face of the earth, only a few thousand members each. However, no in the archaeological or geological record, and a subsequent mass dying. What then could have and nearly driven us to extinction, The second theory is that these population numbers early homo species. This population size isn't for the time. This conflicts somewhat with the Homo species, and the risk of sudden extinction spread out over such a vast area. However, given except our brains, we can sort of get behind the fighting off animals that we struggled to survive, Mother nature had a chance to kill us off her pay for it. Next time someone asks you to and unlike mother nature, we're not hesitating. some mysterious Event X that targeted Consider the following: why are all humans by multi-legged creepy crawly insects, and why are UFOs a phenomenon reported literally Did spider-like space aliens with multiple and try to cull us but mysteriously stopped not saying this did happen, but we are saying The Black Death plague had been ravaging Asia, but since Europe it didn't hit prime time until October of 1347. Messina and brought the worst early-Christmas the black death. Authorities would rush these the cat was already out of the bag- or This horrendous disease caused massive boils grow as big as an apple according to witnesses. and puss, while the victim suffered from chills, Eventually, the victim would die- but to dozens of other people since humanity did There was no treatment for the plague, or rather except make things worse and outright kill or bleeding- or the making of small incisions in knew anything about germs, often these small themselves, or the plague could spread from one a bleeding tool without proper sanitation. Other were completely useless included laying in bath that even in plague-infested middle ages Europe, way to turn a profit by selling useless products. suspect that the plague was a punishment from God. which included mass groups of men who would as an act of penance for the world's sins. The straps that were embedded with sharp pieces of for thirty three and a half days, then they'd pack atone for humanity through their suffering. The because he cared about the men whipping themselves willing to suffer for the people had become a Estimates on its death toll vary from 75 been over half of the human population- rapidly to extinction, but luckily humanity's gradual dramatically reduced the effects of the plague. get it today, the plague never resurfaced What really limited its effectiveness and saved time, the plague wasn't very good about getting and many human populations at the time were Only merchants, soldiers, and political severely limiting transmission Were a new disease as virulent and we only have to look to Covid to know that within Nuclear Holocaust, 1995 generous and kind people. That's why it's a In 1995 the Cold War had officially been over between Capitalism and Communism, and as the between Russia and the United States. For 40 the world- with psychological effects so it has had measurable effects on the evolution Then on January 25th, 1995, the Just a few hours before dawn, a rocket off the northwest coast of Norway. The sounding of a study of the aurora borealis by and Norway had alerted the Russians of the launch never made it up the proper channels, and Russian long-range radar had already detected it. fears. The rocket behaved exactly like a US and incredibly, took the exact same trajectory against Russia. In the event of nuclear war, it from a US submarine, and intended to detonate early-warning radar and communications with an intercontinental ballistic missiles would rain nothing to defend itself. The Russian civilization and only a handful of Russian nukes would Due to the low resolution of Russian radars, rocket's stages, which would have helped identify Russian radar could only track speed and rocket entered a flight corridor used by American match with a Trident missile. To add to rocket even released its nosecone at an extremely Within minutes of the launch the Russian then-president, Boris Yeltsin. He had a fateful Russia's ability to retaliate diminished. As payload exploded, Russian early-warning radar wipe out Russian nuclear ballistic missile fields on Russia's ballistic missiles would be strikes Then would come the air force bases housing Yeltsin's ability to communicate would have been eliminated well before that. If A heated discussion erupted. but Russian radar- lagging a little bit behind The military was adamant- Russia But Yeltsin couldn't for the life of him figure He made his decision- Russia would not retaliate. aware of the early morning crisis held their to not come in. If the attack was real, they would out communications with any unit within visual would know that the end of the world had indeed launches in the US reached them- if the EMP blast It could very well be that Yeltsin and his staff blinded and cut off from all communications would have is the sudden dawning of an followed by almost immediate complete atomization. Russian computers calculated the launch site as would fire a nuclear weapon from. Thankfully, had been on much friendlier terms than normal, earlier, it's extremely likely the world Now go check out Worst Natural Disasters In