Tokyo, Japan Specializing in gluten free rice flour sweets and rice flour bread. Manager, Mr. Ito. Finishing muffins. Soy milk cream colored with butterfly peas and gardenias. It is December, so it is inspired by Christmas tree. Strawberry cream. The color is of natural origin, The color is produced using beets. Not much of a beet claim. If you can understand it, I can understand it. Because we are adding the essence of strawberry there, It tastes like a strawberry flavor. It is inspired by Santa Claus's hat. Chocolate topping. Image of Christmas tree illumination. Decorated with strawberries. Napalm glazed with napalm. Third meal white is made. Simple soy milk cream without color. White color is like snow. Chocolate is applied to make it look like snow is falling. Mont blanc muffin. Soy milk cream. Chestnut cream. Almond topping. Chestnuts with astringent skin. Mont Blanc with one inside, because it goes on the top as well, I am very satisfied. Manager, Mr. Ito, is nervous for shooting. (Staff) Your name is the same, right? (Staff) How do you call them? (Manager Ito-san) It's a first name. (Staff) Is that the same for the staff? I would call the employees by their job title. Squeeze custard made from solar eggs. Caramelized apple compote, It's roasted a little bit on a burner. After searing, I let it rest a bit and use it the next day. Napage for glazing. I would be very happy if I could make it beautiful, The look is the first thing that the customer sees, I think that's the point where they want to eat, Make something beautiful, And then you're going to recreate a number of them, It's still very difficult. Still not enough. Twice-baked bread for sandwiches. Baking finished. This bread is also made from 100% domestic rice flour. Bread made with rice flour becomes chewy. Making plain, cinnamon and raisin mini breads. Rice flour and yeast. Salt malt. Maple syrup and rapeseed oil. Turn water up to 38 to 40 degrees Celsius. Add hot water to rice flour and yeast Adding hot water little by little. Put into mold. Rice flour is &quot;Asahi no Yume&quot; produced in Tochigi prefecture. The rice is made with the farmer's face visible, and he wants people to eat it with peace of mind. Adding raisins for Sun Muscat raisin bread. Fermentation. Check for sufficient fermentation. Not yet. (Staff) Do these things change with the temperature of the day? It's still different. Check again. Fermentation finished. Raisins are put on top. (Staff) The color is white. It is white. It's still rice flour, The color remains white. Bake in oven. Baked for the first time. Bake a little more with oil. Finished baking. Plain, cinnamon, and sun-muscat raisin mini breads. Crispy outside, chewy inside. Open at 10:00 a.m. After opening, muffin batter is made for the next day. Unconditioned soy milk. Taiyo egg, a brand-name egg produced in Nagasaki prefecture. Tensai sugar. Warmed slightly in a hot water bath. Put in mixer. Mold for pouring muffin batter. Vanilla essence. Rice flour and almond powder, a little at a time. Stir in soy milk. Pour into molds. Bake in oven. Baked. Muffins with fluffy and light texture. Turn over to prevent dough from caving in when heat cools. Allow to cool. Bake muffin batter again. Bakes about 100 muffins alone per day. Making tiramisu. Coffee and muffins, I have a core, I make it by mixing it with coffee. This one is made by mixing matcha with muffin batter. Raspberry flavor. Layers of thick sauce of mascarpone and cream cheese. More layers. Put a layer of fine muffin dough on top. Chestnut cream for Mont Blanc tiramisu. Raspberry jam for raspberry tiramisu. Raspberry jam made in the store. Sprinkle matcha powder. Cocoa powder. Can be enjoyed by everyone from babies to the elderly. Breads and sweets that are gentle to the body. Please come and visit us, it's very delicious. A close look at a cake shop that uses organic ingredients and is kind to the body. Ever since I was a child, I dreamed of becoming a pastry chef and opening a cake shop. Tokyo, Japan Kinshicho store is closely followed. Owner-chef Miyata Finishing cream puffs. Fresh cream Fresh cream and custard combined or custard and caramel. Custard Caramel cream Powdered sugar sprinkled on top Finish strawberry shortcake. Melon shortcake Mango shortcake Finishing touches on grape tart. Finish of fruit tart. Chocolate tart Making murrang shanties. Put meringue on top of whipped cream. Caramel sauce Put walnuts on top. Finish off the whole shortcake. Syrup Ever since I was a child, I dreamed of becoming a pastry chef and opening a cake shop. The trigger was originally a picture book, I had a picture book that I loved, That's what makes cakes and bakes bread, I read those picture books every day, I was influenced by that and I wanted to create that worldview, I became a patissier. Putting them in the showcase. 10:00 a.m. The store opens. Sponge cake batter is made. More than 100 eggs Organic sugar is added. Dissolve slowly in hot water. Light flour Thin flour is added. Add melted butter. I come here once or twice a week. My favorites are, Shortcake is my favorite. And I like the softness of the sponge, The cream is soft and gentle. It's organic, Cakes for acquaintances or friends, It's a gift, and it makes for good conversation when you eat it. It's all good. It tastes gentle. I use organic sugar for all my sugar, And the flour is organic flour, We try to use the healthiest ingredients we can, The food that is safe for children to eat, I'm trying to make a cake, and I do it every day. For as many customers as possible in the future, We want to create products that people can enjoy, We will do our best to make it fun for you, Please come to our store. Japan Kanagawa Patisserie Annot 7:17 We closely followed a store that is filled with a desire to connect with people through sweets. Making cream puffs. Bake cookie dough on top of puff, To give it a crunchy texture, I do this. By misting water, Squeeze the dough to make it float, Puffs are hard, and they look delicious when they break, I pour water on it to make it easier to crack. Baked in oven. Check baking condition. Deliciously baked. Shoe is rotated. To ensure even browning and even heat, Front and back and left and right are switched. Baked. Squeeze custard into choux. If you put too much or squeeze too vigorously, It will crack, Gently and slowly. Now we are going to finish the shortcake sandwich. Cutting a large amount of strawberries. Two people share the work to finish. Cream is squeezed onto the sponge. I have a person who beats syrup into sponge, We use it as it is. (Photographer) How many strawberry whole cakes are you making today? 15 whole ones today, which is a small number. On Saturday and Sunday, I make between 30 and 50. Shortcakes are the most popular. We make about 5,000 for Christmas, I will do each one in about 1 minute. This would take 2 minutes per piece, That alone takes twice as long. The name of the restaurant &quot;Annot&quot; means &quot;ring&quot; in French, Annot&quot; is the French word for &quot;circle&quot;, The store was founded with the desire to expand the circle of the community through confectionery. (Photographer) Who is coming up with the new menu? The new menu is basically my idea, I think about what I want to make, and anyone can make it. We make a prototype together, and if it tastes good, we put it on the shelves. Putting strawberries on top. I'm particular about the cream and sponge mixture, And then we design it so that when you eat it, it melts together, And then we put a special blend of cream, And the sponge usually gets hard when you put it in the refrigerator, But we use a special formula to prevent hardening. The strawberries are also made from the best strawberries at the time, which are purchased by the fruit vendor, That's what you use. In the middle because it is the most recommended. Making a bouche. Mix cream with custard. Light ponzi-like texture is amazingly delicious, so, I don't mix it too much after standing it up, and I don't overcook it. The timer for the millefeuille dough went off. Both head and body are fully engaged to see how the other sweets are doing at the same time. Resumes making bouquets. Baking in oven. Baked. Sandwich cream and strawberries after heat is removed. Combine cream and custard. Squeeze into bouquet. Put strawberries on top. Strawberry chocolate covered on top. (Staff) Looks like spring. Yes, and pink chocolate, It's pretty like cherry blossom petals that will bloom soon. Does the design ever change? Sometimes depending on the season, Sometimes the design changes. (Staff) So this is exactly the spring version? This is a spring specification. Mr. Nagahara is a veteran patissier with 40 years experience in this field. (Staff) Do you enjoy this job for 40 years? Yes, I think you have to like it to continue. I've thought a lot of times that it's hard, or it's hard, I have never felt like quitting. (Staff) On the contrary, what makes you happy? When a customer tells me that the cake I ate was delicious, That really makes me the happiest. Finishing the chocolate mousse. Decorate with gold leaf. Fill cornet with custard. The product name of cornet is &quot;Anone&quot;, which is a play on the store's name &quot;Ano&quot;. Finishing of strawberry puff pastry. Squeezing custard. Fresh cream. Strawberries decorated. The finished products are placed one after another in the showcase. Morning meeting has started. The morning meeting is done while standing facing the showcase. Please have a good day today. Everyone checks together for improvements while looking at the showcase. 10:00 Open. Make 200 sponge cakes for 200 whole cakes. Watanabe-san joins me, and we both crack eggs. I use the best eggs from Nikko (Nasu Goyou Eggs), The yolk is much darker than other eggs, It's more orangey, The yolk is dark. When you sponge this, it really has a rich egg taste. It is a good egg. It takes two people almost 10 minutes to crack a large number of eggs. Scrubbing beaten eggs. This makes the finished sponge very smooth in the mouth. Eggs and sugar add to mixture. Heat milk. Flour. Baking powder. Trehalose. Granulated sugar. Lighten flour for 7 batches to bake sponge cake in 7 batches. Sifted. Mix with egg and trehalose. Add warm milk. Warm milk is added. Pour into molds. Bake in oven. Moisture tends to sink to the bottom, Bring it firmly from the bottom to the top. Baking finished. We are a seasonal store. We want you to try our seasonal sweets, Please come visit us anytime anon. Please do. Specializing in colorful, elastic and soft doughnuts made with natural dyes. A close look at the doughnut making process at SIUNAUS SWEETS. Japan Tokyo Japan Tokyo, Japan Donuts are made in a factory located a few seconds walk from the store. Fires up the fryer. Vegetable oil is used. Domestic flour Eggs Dry yeast Hot water The temperature of the hot water on this day is 32degC Dry yeast is added. Add flour. Add eggs. Knead dough with 2 mixers. Dough is sugar, milk, and butter free. Chatting until dough is ready. Very friendly, harmonious atmosphere on site. Temperature is measured. Cut into 3 equal portions and knead. (Staff) Does it take a lot of strength? Yes, it does. Repeatedly, it's quite bearable. Another dough being made at the same time. Factory manager, Mr. Hasegawa Dough making is done by about 10 people. Dough is rolled. Everyone is nervous now that the camera is rolling. Stretching out the dough. Poke holes in dough with picket roller to prevent partial expansion when fried. Flour Forming into doughnut shape. (Staff) Do you ferment in this machine? Yes, it is. Fermentation. (Staff) You all get along very well. We are good friends. Factory manager Hasegawa-san is a mood maker. From morning to afternoon, as soon as fermentation is finished, All the time, Knead, ferment, fry, serve, repeat and turn. I keep frying until about 21:00 or 22:00 at night, I fry at least 1200 pieces. Remove doughnuts in order, starting with those that have finished fermenting. Deep fry. Very short frying time. No sugar, butter, or milk, so the dough absorbs very little oil. Turn over. Fried. Fried one after another. Two donut fryers are in full operation. Deep-fried donuts are fluffy and chewy. Mr. Ohba, president of the company Donuts that have been laying in the freezer. Chocolate coating. Belgian rich series The most popular Belgian rich milk Dried Mango Chocolate is made in Belgium. Belgian rich white Cranberry and blueberry 3D printed animal molds. White chocolate Chocolate is poured into molds. Rabbit mold Panda mold Chilled in refrigerator to harden. When hardened, draw a face. There are many kinds of animals, and you can choose which one you want to top. Molds are homemade and can be special ordered. (Mr. Ohba) The size can be made quite freely. From 3 cm square to about 20 cm diameter, All can be handled. (Staff) If a customer says, &quot;Please make something like this,&quot; can you make it? Yes, we get a lot of requests. On the child's birthday, And I said, &quot;My kid loves trains, can you make him some train chocolates?&quot; And. Say, &quot;No problem.&quot; I make quite a bit. Colorful shades use natural dyes. Animal donuts are completed. Reservations for the day. Can also be ordered online. Stores are currently two in Tokyo and one in Chiba. It is also set to open in Okinawa Prefecture. Sealed with a laminating machine. Put in gift box. Open at 10 There is an eat-in space in the store. Christmas season was in the day when this photo was taken, and Christmas special doughnuts are lined up. Donuts in Hawaii Doughnut making at factory continues. (Mr. Oba) Originally, I had a totally different job, I was involved in the production of doughnuts at some point, I thought it would be fun. Make &quot;yummy&quot; and &quot;pretty&quot; doughnuts, for small children and adults, I started this in hopes of making them happy. I'm making donuts by hand, All the employees enjoy working there, We can't make it if they don't do it in a positive way, You have to be careful to create a good atmosphere in the workplace, They want to make it fun, not unpleasant, and everyone wants to make good food, that we can work with a lot of feeling, We try to create a workplace where people can work with a lot of feeling. We use the doughnut as a campus, Pretty and seasonal, Christmas, Valentine's Day, and, If it was a child's day, With a chocolate plate of carp streamers, Sold only on May 5. We want to make those kinds of things that are uniquely pretty and delicious. Just for Mother's Day, or just for Father's Day, We also make limited edition products. (Staff) Is information about limited edition products on Instagram? It is on Instagram. Some products are sold only on that day. We make various original doughnuts for each season, Please come and visit us. The kitchen car &quot;Gontetsu&quot; is well known for its cute and tasty homemade waffles. Very popular with children! Christmas style, cookies are also snowmen. I followed closely for 2 days from preparation! Japan Kanagawa based kitchen car &quot;Gontetsu The first day of close inspection, preparation work. Owner, Mr. Ozaki This is unsalted butter. Simply, butter is still delicious. Making sauce for waffle topping. Flour We will make about 200 servings today. Add flour. Soy milk There is also the reason of ease of preservation, Because children often eat it, The reason we use soy milk, for example, is because of our commitment to using nutritious products. It can be difficult to light the stove in the winter. I have been a kitchen car for 4 years. I am now just 25 years old. In my early 20s when I started the kitchen car, or get a job at the candy store where I was working, I had the option of starting something on my own. I felt that since I was so young, I would do what I could while I was young, I started a kitchen car. More than I wanted to do a kitchen car, I wanted a place where I could serve what I made. Raspberries are made into a paste and boiled down with sugar. Limited edition for Christmas. Basically, all of our cream has no whipped cream in it. At events, we often have two crepe and waffle stores side by side. To differentiate, Made without whipped cream. When this cools a little more, it hardens, It becomes just hard enough to squeeze into the waffle holes. Flavored with gourmandise fraise (strawberry juice concentrate). Put in refrigerator and remove from heat. Put sauce in squeeze bag. With about 10 kinds of cream, If you make all of them, it's quite a lot. It looks like this. (Staff) Do you always clean up afterwards, after business is over? After we're done, we stack everything up and take it home. Making the waffle batter. Flour This is whole wheat flour. This is about half the amount of flour. Tapioca flour Tapioca flour Granulated sugar. When I say all of that, then we'll publish the recipe. (Staff) Tell me the secret part! Powdered bulking powder Baking powder (Staff) What was that? This is a poppy seed. Can you recognize it as the grains on top of bean-jam buns, etc.? (Staff) Those are not sesame seeds, are they? It's not a sesame seed (laughter). This completes the basic powder. This can be changed from whole wheat to rye, depending on the day, I change it to cornmeal or some other flour. The basic is the same, but the flavor or the atmosphere of the dough is changed. The texture, the chewiness, Also, the flavor on the nose varies a lot with rye. Rye is the first choice. (Staff) How do you decide which flour to use? It has to do with inventory, etc., #1, The rest is mood. I'm bored, so I get tired of making the same thing. Egg yolk. These are egg yolks that have recently doubled in selling price, and the stores are taking a hit. These are egg whites that have doubled, if not doubled, to about 1.8 times the price. After adding soy milk, add honey. Rum Stir thoroughly, then mix with flour. I asked about the difficulties in kitchen car business. It's the lack of free time outside of work. When I go home, I have to go straight to work, The real work is done when the business is over! It is not. After the business day is over, I go home and do the dishes and put away the ingredients. After that, I start preparing the food. There are many sites where the delivery is at 9:00 a.m. and the end is at 8:00 p.m. Keep this cool, I take it with me when I do sales. We find a cat living in the neighborhood. Ozaki-san intervenes in a fight. Because cat lovers call cat lovers, When you put cat goods on your kitchen car, cat lovers come to you. They call him &quot;Mr. Horse Mackerel&quot; because he looks like a horse mackerel. The second day of the close visit. Today, we are closely connected with the opening of the store! Waiting for Ozaki-san, with Azi-san's company. Good morning. We ask Azi to move to a safe place in order to move the kitchen car. (Staff) It's a beautiful day, isn't it? Yes, it is. It's relatively cool and people seem to be coming out. (Staff) When you go, do you have something in mind when you go? I don't think about it much. It's more like how I spend my free time. I usually put on a radio or something and listen to music while I go. I just go on the road for an hour or half an hour or something. Arrive at the shopping district where the stall is located. Greetings from the shopping district. First, start preparing the kitchen car. Power is borrowed from the bookstore next door. The electricity inside should now be on. Menu board Opening the flip-up door. Firmly fixed. Tapestry Fixed. This tapestry is full of cat love, calling for cat lovers. The stall opened on this day was in Kanagawa, Japan. Ozaki-san's friend stopped by with a flyer. On December 9, there will be a screening of the film at Tsurumi Public Hall. Please subscribe to our channel! Thank you very much. They have regular film screenings at Tsurumi Public Hall. I'm getting to know more and more people like this, I feel like it's a kitchen car business. Mr. Ozaki loves cats, and his kitchen car is decorated with many cat goods. Banner Most of my clientele are children, On weekdays, it's office guys, And they buy a lot of things in bulk for the women. I have 9 different kinds today, It is quite common to have people buy one of all kinds. There seems to be a demand for weekdays on weekdays and for weekends on weekends. Customers arrive before the store opens. Excuse me! (Customer) I'll be back! Please, I'm sorry. Waffle makers take 30-40 minutes to warm up. Aprons on, ready for opening. The waffle maker is made overseas, and the thing itself is quite solid. Waffle batter prepared yesterday. Smell of Japanese sweets shop nearby? It smells very nice, like soy sauce. We smell it quite a bit when we bake the dough too, Baking the dough itself is an act that attracts customers. Blending the oil. Only two, test bake as it is the first time. With steam, sweet aroma spreads. Shaping. This is the state of completion. Shaped like a beehive After checking the quality of the test baking, they start baking the one to be served. The serving dish is pre-baked and baked once more after receiving the order. Baked twice to serve warm and crispy on the outside. Freshly made waffles are crispy, The dough is adjusted so that it can be served in optimum conditions. Because all the electricity is used for the waffle maker and lights, We can't use the stove and so on. (Staff) Then the winters are harsh? Winter and summer are harsh. A customer arrives 15 minutes before the store opens. Cream of sweet potato Cream of Maple Decorate with flower cookies and chocolate bees. Quickly wrap them individually. Thank you for your patience. Child receiving with a smile. At first I only made four or five kinds. And then we had requests for 'I want sweet potato or sweet potato flavors,' and we made that, too, And we listened to our customers, and before we knew it, we had 10 kinds, We started to offer them on a daily basis, so the amount we make has increased. 11:00 Opening 1 maple butter. Cream of maple Powdered sugar Nuts It is delicious as it is, of course, but it is also delicious when it is heated up in a microwave oven or toaster and fixed. Sorry for the delay. Plain and chocolate, please. Yes, plain and chocolate? Are you sure you want to take it home? Yes, I am. Chocolate cream Thank you for your patience. Burned one after another. Snowman's... Ah! The snowman's, isn't it? I can make a to-go version, but do you want to eat it right away? Thank you for your patience. Happy brother. Cute looking waffles are very popular among children. Sharing with sister. I am glad that your child's 'delicious' sounds the most honest. That's one of the reasons I can't raise the price anymore. Strawberries. First time! I thought I'd make a snack for today. Strawberry cream Cream of chocolate Strawberry flakes Thank you very much. I will eat and go. Yes, thank you. Two 300 yen. It will be ready in less than a minute, so please wait a moment. Sweet Potato Cream Pumpkin Seed The women say, &quot;So cute! and the women say. The best part of the kitchen car business is that you can hear the voices of people passing by outside of the car. People from shopping district come to the store. I was definitely going to buy these Christmas berries after seeing the installations. It's my first time. So I decided to buy it today. Raspberry sauce that I was making closely on day 1. It's Christmas style, and the cookies are snowmen. The Christmas berries are completed. I'll leave it at that. Yay! Thank you, I'm so glad you like it! Isn't she pretty? Delicious. Delicious? New menu items and store openings are available on the restaurant's Instagram. Will we see you next in your city? Japan Kanagawa 4 min walk from Futakoshinchi station After going down 7 steps, you can see the entrance of the store with noren (curtain). Owner-chef Kaneko-san. Baking sponge cake. Mix granulated sugar with eggs. Put in mixer. Butter. Milk concentrate. With cream, you get more oil, so you use concentrated milk. Warm in oven. Add flour. Add butter and milk concentrate. Concentrated milk is similar to condensed milk when you drink it. Maybe closer to unsweetened condensed milk. Poured into molds. Bake in oven. Lots of utensils, use different ones for various pastries. It's going to expand and squish a little bit more. Baked. Cool in refrigerator. Make whipped cream. Cooled sponge cake. Cut into thin strips. A cake for the wedding anniversary was on order that day. Fresh cream is applied. Put strawberries on top. Spread whipped cream on top of strawberries. Put second layer of sponge cake on top. There are now two pastry chefs, Mr. Kaneko and Mr. Kurosaka, who was not present on this day. They are making pastries every day with a good balance of their two specialties combined. If you are employed, you cannot work freely, To make what you want to make, the way you want to make it, I opened my own business because it was the only way to be independent. (Staff) It's reassuring to have someone you can do it with! Yes, it is. That's totally different. My personality is totally different from Kurosaka's, I think it's a good balance. Squeeze whipped cream into rose shape. Put strawberries on top. Put a plate on top. (Staff) Is that chocolate? Yes, it is chocolate. It has puffs inside. Gold leaf is put on. Add while watching overall balance. Pour over pistachios. Make tart. Tart dough prepared and laid out. My mother used to do a lot of baking, That's the influence. So our chiffon cake is my mother's recipe. Say, &quot;I'm going to use it. (Staff) You were happy, weren't you? He said, &quot;Yes.&quot; Put almond cream on top. Bake in oven. Turn over front and back to avoid uneven baking. Baking finished. Cools slightly. Strawberries for decorating tarts. Squeeze custard on cooled tart base. Put strawberries on top. It's rose jam, I use it instead of napage (glaze). I just happen to have it and it was just right for napage, so I use it, I don't use it every time, but... I paint it on strawberries. Mix remaining strawberries into rose jam. Make whipped cream. Squeeze the whipped cream to fill in between the strawberries. Decorate with strawberries. Make cream puffs. Mix milk, flour, sugar, butter, and salt over heat. Kaneko-san instructs. Eggs are added while mixer is running. Squeeze dough. Squeeze cookie dough on top. It's similar to cookie dough. When you put this on it, it gets crunchy. Bake it in the oven. Dough has risen. Baking finished. When cooled, squeeze custard cream. Sprinkle with powdered sugar. Make madeleines. Put granulated sugar into eggs. Burnt butter used to make madeleine dough. Big bubbles are formed. Changing from big bubbles to small bubbles. Stirring with a constant attention. (Staff) So much bubbling. Yes, before the butter burns. Cool in ice water. Mix in eggs and granulated sugar. Add honey. Add flour. Add salt and baking powder. I think all pastry chefs are researchers, They change the ingredients, they change the way they make it, In our case, what are we researching? when we came up with the concept, I think it's &quot;love.&quot; I was talking about &quot;love&quot;, I was thinking of a theme, &quot;Research on loving sweets&quot;, I have that as the concept of the store, What kind of material is this for each individual material? What kind of characteristics does it have? How to make it taste good, and so on, I spend so much time thinking about that stuff, the fact that you're thinking about it for a long time itself, I think it is &quot;love.&quot; Thoughts, feelings, thoughts? Starts with. Raspberry jam is squeezed over the dough. Bake in oven. Baked. Cherry blossom pound cake. Packing into bag. 11:00 AM Making a grand brookie. Flour, whole wheat flour, cane sugar. Butter. Butter. Put in mixer. Macadamia nuts. Chocolate chips. Mix into cookie dough. Put in while still soft. (Staff) So it hardens. Yes, it does. It's on the apple pie, Rolled cookies, Because they are delicious, I made it because I wanted to eat that one. Bake in the oven. Turn over to avoid uneven baking. Finished baking. Crumble cookie with crunchy texture. Finishing spitzbuben. Cookies. Passion fruit jam cooked down. Spread jam on cookies. Layered cookies with the die-cut middle. Now it's passion fruit jam, though, It depends on the time. Raspberry or yuzu, I think there were peaches, too, You made it with French peach puree, (Staff) You have peaches in France, too, Yes, m it's a little different, isn't it? Flat peaches, The owner of a nearby Taiwanese restaurant, Ordered a cake for a relative's wedding celebration. Just coming to the restaurant for dinner, cake at that time. (Staff) What cake did you ask for when you asked for it before? It was just my husband's birthday. And that's when I ordered a chocolate whole cake, It was so delicious, So I would like to order it for special occasions. There are a lot of cute sweets, so I always bring them as souvenirs, I buy some for myself, I always buy them when I bring souvenirs or something. Everyone is happy when I give it to them. I take the ones there and have them boxed up, I'd give it to them as a gift, and so on, In case of emergency, this box. All packed. This is amazingly pleasing. A close look at a very popular cake shop with a coffee shop, where children and adults alike feel free to stop by! Japan Osaka 5 min walk from Abiko station 7:10 Owner-chef Mukai-san Pudding Handmade napage Printe I do this so that no matter where I eat, I'm doing it right and with strawberries. Once cooled. Glassage Very popular with children Rien chocolat Raspberry sauce Tropical sauce I used to make a lot more numbers, I've already made more cakes and fewer cakes now. When I run out, I'll make more. Foreign strawberries in summer, you know, They don't taste good. I was looking for good strawberries, and my wife's classmate told me about a strawberry farm in Hokkaido, I was looking for strawberries, and my wife's classmate told me about this strawberry farm in Hokkaido, and she told me about it, Hokkaido summer strawberries If you take it from the supplier, it's usually domestic, But if you get it from a peach farmer, or a grape farmer, or a grape farmer.., I'm not always, but I take it directly from them. It's fresher and tastier when you buy directly from the farmer. This Mont Blanc paste is also when I was working in Ehime, I went to eat at a sushi restaurant, and there was a chestnut one for dessert, And we were talking about how good it was there, I looked it up and found a paste of this, so that's what I use. Japanese chestnut mont blanc Cut and finish. No.1 popular product (Staff) What is that? It's a fruit mix. Pears, oranges, peaches. Making meringue. Fruit gratin Rare cheese Strawberry mousse Fruit pudding Mango pudding Mr. Mukai's wife and children. Finishing a whole cake. 10:00 Cafe/eat-in space available. A variety of baked goods are available. This was a wonderful cake shop in Osaka city! We've been doing Mont Blanc all year round. Very popular. We are in close contact with Sweets House Mu, which is very popular for its refined taste with less sweetness! Osaka, Japan Owner-chef Matsusaka Making whipped cream. Making cream puff dough. Bake in oven. Cool in refrigerator. Chill in refrigerator. Fruit field Pudding a la mode Pistachio paste Rouge Cutting the cake that was chilled earlier. Japanese strawberry shortcake Fig Cake Ganache Western style Daifuku Fruit Roll There is a mint flowerpot in front of the store. I pick it when I need it and decorate it. When the ones I grow at home grow, I cut them off and plant them again. When you plant it, it's going to grow as much as it can because it's going to form again. Finish the chilled whole cake. We do Mont Blanc all year round, It's just so-so popular. I'm pushing for number 1, pudding and roll cake. (Staff) What do you do on your days off? On my days off, I often visit farmers in Wakayama. Peach farmers, and in winter, persimmon farmers, In the summer, we use strawberries in Nagano, in partnership with farmers. I met a farmer who does peaches and strawberries together. I'm working with him, so I often go to Wakayama. Fig tart 10:00 1st recommended menu Drink menu and soft serve ice cream are also available. City Hall common space in front of the store. A wide variety of baked goods are also sold. (Staff) Do you come here often to buy? I come once a month. Seasonal, because we make fruitcake and so on. I bought a fig cake today.