This video was made possible by CuriosityStream. Watch thousands of high-quality documentaries using the link in the description. In the 1950's, this is the pride of the Soviet A sleek new airliner, one of the first ever It flies faster, further, and is a showcase But there's something wrong with this plane. Because over the course of a few months, airliners truly bizarre string of incidents. These planes aren't just crashing, they're several thousand feet. Leaving investigators The 1950's saw the start of a boom in commercial Flying had become safer, faster, and more And those who had the means, could now cross halfway around the world in less than a day. Air travel had entered a golden age. At least in the Western world. Because over in the Soviet Union, flying was Soviet airliners were at least a generation They were slower, smaller, and offered little Even worse, they couldn't fly very far. And in a country as massive as the Soviet Because flying across the country from Moscow at least six times. The trip could take as long as fifty hours, and noisy aircraft that couldn't fly high In the early 1950s, the Soviet Union was in But rather than just catching up to the West, a new technology. In 1952, the British stunned the world by The de Havilland Comet flew nearly twice as thousand feet higher. Developing it had been a massive effort requiring And while jet engines were still relatively the next evolution in air travel. Including one famous aircraft designer from saw them as a way to bring Soviet air travel A jet airliner like the Comet would cut flying on a mass scale. The problem was, Soviet leadership saw jets An excess better left to greedy western capitalists. What's more, the Comet had taken the better Time and resources that Soviet leaders weren't But knowing this, Tupolev had a plan. He promised top Soviet brass that he could A reliable jet airliner with even more passenger What's more, a Soviet-designed jet airliner would prove to the world that the Soviet Union It was an offer they couldn't refuse. But how do you build a state-of-the-art jetliner Well, you start with a massive shortcut. This is the Tu-16 bomber. Built to rain havoc over Europe and for Tupolev, Having just finished designing it for the halfway there. He'd just need to widen the fuselage. But he could keep the engines, even if they He could also reuse wings. Although better suited for high speed bombing The pilots might just have to land a little Same concept for the tail and vertical stabilizer. They could largely be reused. Landing gear, avionics and other components The heavy-duty military components would add Making for one sturdy airliner. Designed in record time, and built at a fraction as the Tu-104. While Tupolev was putting the finishing touches that the transition to jet travel wouldn't By 1954, design flaws in the Comet caused led to the aircraft's grounding. The Comet was banned from commercial flights out the issues. It meant by the time the Soviet Union's in June of 1955, the Soviets suddenly found jet airliner. But rather than take it as a sign of caution, While the 104 was still undergoing flight flew to Britain aboard the new plane. The rakesh-looking airliner caught many off Aviation experts and British news reporters were kicked into a frenzy. The press were convinced that the Soviets a much larger and technologically superior For the Soviets, it was a propaganda windfall. And it wouldn't be the last time they Over the coming months, 104s visited cities Each time, crowds greeted the aircraft and at Soviet technology. In 1957, a 104 even showed up to the Paris by non-western built aircraft. A few months later, the new airliner flew state visit, marking the first ever transatlantic For the Soviets, the 104 a huge propaganda seemed like a masterstroke of genius. But the first signs of trouble were already Compared to other airliners, the Tu-104 was Pilots complained about heavy, unresponsive And the aircraft's enormous weight and highly challenging. Landing at busy civilian airports was a white Pilots were so afraid of stalling, it was speeds than designed. Stopping was another issue, the airliner had weak set of wheel brakes. A hastily deployed parachute was often the past the runway. But the complaints were brushed off by Soviet That is, until 1958 when the airliner began to ignore. The first sign of trouble came in February, caused both engines to flame out. Without power, the aircraft fell twenty thousand relight the engines. A month later, another 104 also ran into turbulent But this time, the aircraft was hurled up it from climbing all the way to forty four Higher than the plane should ever fly. Eventually the aircraft stalled, and began to regain control. Despite the near-disasters, Soviet authorities But the incidents continued. In August, another 104 was mysteriously hurled Again, the aircraft stalled. But this time, the pilots couldn't recover Just two months later, a 104 flying between into the sky. This time, the pilot heroically radioed back While he couldn't save the aircraft, the information Authorities could no longer ignore the bizarre There was clearly something wrong with the But remarkably, they wouldn't ground the aircraft. Instead, letting it continue carrying passengers mystery. Eventually investigators would come to realize the pilots couldn't counteract. And the aircraft's bomber-derived origins The 104's larger pressurized cabin was prone depending on how the aircraft was loaded. This meant that there was a natural tendency wasn't powerful enough to counteract these A number of emergency modifications were made above a certain altitude. But not before another incident in 1959, when managed to recover. A critical design flaw had cost 144 lives. And although fixes were made, extensive rap sheet of other accidents. The most common were runway overshoots, thanks derrived airliner. Nearly one out of every five Tu-104s that But given the secretive nature of the Soviet coverage. Even so, the airliner developed a notorious Even becoming the theme of a 1960's folk song. Like the British, the Soviets paid heavily But by 1958, the Comet had been heavily redesigned And the Americans had introduced their own 104 once had was gone. But the Soviet Union's first jetliner played the country. To accommodate the jet, air traffic control built, and runways through the soviet union And the operational lessons learned from 104 airliners, earning the 104 a spot amongst I've been busy working on my most ambitious aircraft ever built, the Northrop B-2 Spirit. I cover the mysterious plane's Cold War and why forty years on, it remains the world's What started out as any other Mustard video, And the video I've invested the most energy I'll be releasing it December 16th, on Nebula. Nebula is where you can watch exclusive Mustard the legendary F-117 Nighthawk, and the M-50 like the MiG-25 business jet, and the insane Nebula is where you'll also find hundreds creators like Real Life Lore Wendover, and On Nebula, there's no algorithm that punishes risks on big-budget projects. And because Nebula is completely ad-free, that YouTube deems advertiser-friendly. The best part about Nebula is that it's a streaming service featuring thousands of A recent favorite of mine is Gander International, story behind a remote northern airport which world. Get unlimited access to both CuriosityStream a month by going to curiositystream.com/mustard