A lot of work goes into creating, well-designed PowerPoint slides. Unfortunately, many of that are created every day aren't engaging the audience at all. In fact, many are hard But there are a few really important and easy to implement tips that in your slide design. Let's check them out. (upbeat music) (icon pops) Before we get started, a for sponsoring today's video. Skillshare is a learning platform with lots of great classes. I have a special link for you free premium access. You're going to find it in and I'll be chatting more Now let's get started Number one, visualize your data. Presenting numbers and For one, it's probably not And second, if you put a the audience is going to instead of paying attention to you. Here's an example, a slide like this, encourages the audience to of the data. Their attention is going not on what you're saying. Instead, you could present it like this. Already from the title of the slide the audience can get the The supporting charts makes it easier to interpret the slide. The important thing here to the most important topics on the slide. Which brings me to my next tip. Number two, use white White or negative space in between your content on the slide. Sometimes we feel the urge to make use of every little space available We plaster it with information but more, isn't necessarily always better. If you throw too much on the screen, you get a cluttered and difficult to read. People get frustrated when you're going to lose their attention. So don't do that. White space is also important because it creates separation on your slide and it focuses you want to get across. It also makes text easier to read. And also for the viewer it's And don't get me wrong, white space doesn't have to be white. White space can also be any solid color or even a blurred background. It just means that there or design element. Apple, is a master when it It creates the feeling of luxury and puts the product in focus. So when designing PowerPoint slides, don't create slides like this, which results in visual overload, the viewers eyes will Instead, remember a few key rules. Keep the slide background clean. Company logos and other don't have to be on every single slide. White space principles also Use a font size that's big If you can't fit all your texts this way, it's probably too much text. So it comes down to less is more. Give the elements on your This way the eyes land and the slide is going Number three, apply instant design ideas. Design ideas is a new that's powered by Microsoft's You can find it on the Home tab, which as we know is the prime real estate in any Office product. So what does it do? Let's say we have this about some timeline. And we want to make it If you click on Design Ideas up here, it will make several suggestions. Like this one. Or this one is nice too. And immediately by just clicking a button, you have a much improved Or, if you work with design ideas can convert into a neatly organized Like this one. It also doesn't seem to like So if it sees a slide like this, it will suggest a more You can exchange the icons but if the shape or color is a you can't adjust it. If you have poor design skills like me, or if you're just in a hurry, then design ideas can definitely Number four, use Scalable Vector Graphics. The next tip is about the When you use raster images like be careful when resizing them. Take a look at this Excel logo here, it looks fine in the current size. I can scale it down without problems, but when I scale it up, it's Scaling down is okay, scaling up is not. Not if you have these images. But, if you use SVGs, which is short for you can scale up without pixelation. SVGs can be resized from small to large without losing quality mathematical lines and They are also much smaller in size. For example, the icons option and recent versions of PowerPoint allows you to edit these graphics. You can use the eyedropper or you can even disassemble to an Office shape. This way you can change the of the image. So whenever you can, over raster images. You can scale them up and they are smaller in size as well. Number five, apply the rule of thirds. In photography and cinematography, there is a basic should be composed. It's called the rule of thirds. This also applies to PowerPoint slides. Let me show you how. Here, we have a slide with Let's see how we can improve it. The rule of thirds into three horizontal rows The lines intersect at these four points. Guess what these are called? PowerPoints. What are the odds? The rule says that the should be pleased to run these PowerPoints or along the lines. So let's position the image on this PowerPoint and the texts boxes along the horizontal lines like this. Let's compare them side by side. What do you think? Most people will prefer to second version, it's just more visually appealing. An easy way to apply the is by using the guides. Just go to the View tab and You can add an additional to create the grid. Give the rule of thirds a try So these are my tips when it comes to PowerPoint slide design. I hope you found them helpful. If you're interested in design in general, and you'd like to explore other areas such as logo design, or brand identity, or just the core principles check out the graphic design I personally enjoy the by Ellen Lupton. It's short and concise, and together with many design principles. Aside from this class, on many other topics in Skillshare, which in case you're not familiar is an online learning community with thousands of great classes. Topics range from technical skills like Office Joining Skillshare is An annual subscription and premium membership so you can learn more about And because Skillshare I have a special link for The first 1000 of my are going to get a two month so you can explore new skills If you like this video, And if you want to improve your skills, consider subscribing to this channel. Thank you for watching and (upbeat music)