In today's video we're doing a very in-depth the V4 and the boxer 4 engine. So the three Now before we can do a comparison we have to that is to explain the concepts of primary and with the series and have heard all of this already and otherwise just keep watching. Okay, first up up and down. Well, you could say that in the boxer some sort of angle but that doesn't matter. What all the time, and if you get any object which has you will see that the object resists in the same direction. This is called inertia. Now Just get any object which has a relatively significant An external battery pack like this one will do just fine. And one direction and then try to suddenly change the that you have to exert extra force with your hand to of force you need to keep the object moving in the more force to change direction because you have to For every action there is an equal and opposite object to change its direction the object is also hand is the connecting rod and the object is the onto your hand when it changes direction, so too does when it changes direction. The direction of the it changed direction. So the forces point UP in other words as the engine is running, a primary at the same speed as the RPM of the primary balance we have to balance out the forces achieves perfect primary balance by using inertial forces of another piston. So what we have is two This means that we have two primary forces pointing We have forces of equal magnitude but opposite direction The boxer 4 engine also achieves perfect primary balance by It just does it a bit differently. Instead puts them into two separate banks which that the pistons are also of course opposed to crank pin we can ensure that the pistons move in so is the opposing piston, and so when one Because the pistons oppose each makes two forces of equal magnitude but opposite cancel each other out and eliminate any primary primary balance but it doesn't use piston masses the crankshaft counterweight and the reason why it is precisely because it's a V-engine. If be used for the purposes of achieving perfect primary we can see that when the piston is at top dead center does indeed directly oppose the piston and it can it only reciprocates, while the crankshaft engine to 90 or 270 degrees then the piston and and they cannot balance each other out. The crankshaft counterweight can be at top dead center it's opposed by the crankshaft the other piston comes up to top dead center and the balances it out. The additional bulk that can is physical evidence of this additional task of - V4 sounds - But the V4 isn't just different in the way it achieves perfect primary balance. It's also a lot more modular compared to inline 4 and boxer 4 engines. In fact, you'd be boxer 4 engines are, you know, the same. And this is But the basic crankshaft design and This is not the case for the V4 where you can play around with all sorts of things in the basic engine anatomy and configuration The &quot;typical&quot; V4 engine, if that even exists, has 90 degrees between the two cylinder banks and two conrods sharing one crank pin This enables the crankshaft counterweight induced But it also creates a problem that doesn't exist on an uneven firing interval. Now in a four-stroke to complete one full combustion cycle. So we 180 degrees for combustion and 180 cylinder fires every 720 degrees of rotation. Now So if we divide 720 by 4 we get 180. we need to fire a cylinder every 180 degrees of Now because both the inline and the boxer 4 have 180 they also have 180 degrees of separation between even firing interval for both of these engines. leads to a smooth running engine which reduced in a separation between the combustion events of number of degrees of the angle between the two our V4 engine is 90 degrees. If we put two conrods combustion cycle events of the two pistons equals is at the top dead center it can either be at the So let's imagine we just started combustion is either 90 degrees, or halfway through the the exhaust stroke. This means that we can fire the fire the first cylinder and obviously neither one where one gap between two combustion events is we have an uneven firing interval. But as we said two equal V-twins stacked together. And this means The angle of the V doesn't have to be 90 It can 70 degrees like in the Yamaha V-Max or 65 degrees the offset between the two V twins. You can have or 180 degrees of offset like in the VFR 800 or 70 But no matter the configuration, the firing control will always with the unevenness to create different firing sound and power delivery which can be tailored to the boxer 4 firing intervals may be even but they can't be anything else and you really can do anything about it Now you might have noticed that And this is because V4 engines are And of course this is because the uneven undesirable, you know, for a car where we want to as little engine vibrations as possible for The only car with a V4 engine I can think of from the isn't a proper V4 because Ford used a split crank and this is because that's the only way to achieve of the undesirable vibrations. But on a motorcycle so a bit of vibrations is both tolerable be more than just tolerable in a motorcycle engine. can help the motorcycle achieve better rear tire between power pulses coming from the engine which In other words we're giving the rear tire a bit regain traction. This then leads to more manageable and can also help prevent a sudden loss of tire was subjected to a constant barrage of power the reasons why for example Harley-Davidson singles cylinder motorcycles with large gaps a low traction environment compared to twin isn't just good into dirt it can also be useful have more than enough power to break traction the rider isn't trying to get this to happen. The be called a &quot;big bang&quot; firing order. We have two a big gap and then the other two cylinders fired recovery gap but it also simulates the uneven that many Ducati buyers love and expect. Okay intervals now let's move on to secondary balance. Now when trying to understand secondary balance it balance completely separately from primary balance. motion of the engine. Uh you know the motion of the And for a brief moment I want you to and down. Slowing down then accelerating again to focus on secondary balance alone. And that is And what the connecting rod is doing is that it's line between the piston and the crankshaft center. the connecting rod is fully upright, and it's at piston and the crankshaft. At 90 and 270 degrees or it's at its shortest in relation to the piston becoming shorter it's bringing the piston and the it's effectively pulling the piston down towards forces at 90 and 270 degrees, when the connecting Now when the connecting rod is becoming upright it's the crankshaft center further away from each other. away from the crankshaft center and this is why when the connecting rod is at its longest, they observe the secondary balance of the inline 4. And immediately becomes obvious that the inline 4 has a when two pistons are at top dead center the other pistons are at mid-stroke at the same time. This fully upright or fully angled at the same time. And same direction all the time so they can't cancel noticeable secondary vibrations in an inline 4 engine. it comes to secondary vibrations. The good news and forces only amounts to about one quarter secondary forces arise only from the little tiny But primary forces arise from the main acceleration they're stronger. The bad news is that, as we know a for every revolution and this is why primary revolution. But as we know the connecting rod changes every engine of revolution, and this is why secondary So at 7000 RPM for example we have 14 000 leading to a very annoying buzzing sensation loosen bolts or even damage the engine if the is allowed to get high enough. Fortunately both with the usage of balance shafts. But balance They do get rid of the vibrations, but they do so at the of moving parts, increased cost and complexity. And get rid of secondary vibrations, but others don't. are and they just aim to reduce the amount through the usage of isolation and clever designs V4, when one piston is at top dead center the other one is that when one connecting rod is fully upright secondary force pointing up and the other one point engine the forces don't directly oppose each other like in the inline four. Instead they create perpendicular to the center line between the two about 1.4 times the magnitude of a secondary force secondary vibrations in a V4 are inherently lower also do in a V4 is set the angle between the crank secondary force from the second or the rear pair resultant secondary force of the first pair of cancel out because they're equal in magnitude but Instead they create something known forces equal in magnitude opposite in direction Let's imagine that our two fingers are two forces. directions onto an object, we will see that the goes nowhere. But if we separate our two forces by the object, the object now rotates. And this is what It is constantly trying to rotate the crankshaft and vibrations or even potential damage. Ao we don't We can set the offset to 70 degrees like in the Ducati force of the rear pair of cylinders ever so the front pair of the cylinders. This means that leading to somewhat less noticeable vibrations. As we said, secondary vibrations come from and made even weaker by the fact that motorcycle so the fact that the V4 engine doesn't amplify dilutes them makes them barely noticeable and takes So what about the boxer 4? When one piston is In the rear pair of the pistons when one is at bottom dead center, so we have equal forces of Well, unfortunately, no. Because we have again opposing pistons each piston pair creates a is making upward forces we're having two rocking couples which rotate in the same direction so they sort of stack up Now again secondary forces get away without balance shafts but it does need Now something else you might be wondering is whether also creates a primary rocking couple? And the Remember, primary forces point up at top dead center and down at bottom dead center. This means that both the front and the rear pair of cylinders rocking couples rotate in different directions. The front one is counter-clockwise and the rear they effectively cancel each other out. The same Each cylinder pair does create a rocking couple but they again You can actually visualize this again using a simple rectangular a different direction. What you're trying to do fold it inwards but because you obviously can't a battery pack in half the object simply remains rocking couple would be a flat 4 engine that isn't boxer the connecting rods share a crank pin. This the other one is it at bottom dead center giving us And as you can see they're of equal magnitude in each cylinder pair. This big stacked up primary by a pretty noticeable perpendicular distance which explains why all mainstream mass-produced rod its own crank pin we essentially convert the noticeable secondary couple. So which is the best question I get asked in the comments a lot: &quot;Which There's no such thing. There's no best engine, There's only best for a certain application and set of sort of sporty car that's supposed to go quickly the lower center of gravity created by the boxer might pick this engine for your car. But if you which is going to spend most of its life tight parking spaces or whatever, then the which would likely increase the width of the probably wouldn't pick it because the low center compact cheap city car. So what I'm trying to say which lead to changing weight of each leads to a particular engine configuration anything, let's ask a different question. Why is the Well this is because it can suit most It's the least expensive which have two sets of heads, two sets of cams, one set of cams and one belt. This and reduces cost. And it's also cheaper to service. makes it the most easy to package into usually the easiest access for servicing. The boxer but what prevents it from being widespread is the two heads like in the V4. The boxer 4 is even to be cast from two halves. Both the inline 4 something that is bolted together you know from that is cast and born as one single part. Also belts to drive the cams and also often requires Another issue that I'd like to address is popular boxer engines like the Subaru EJ20 or make a big power the reality isn't that they're have a much smaller margin for error. I mean some low quality. They're weak because of the inherent that secondary rocking couple. And to minimize the having balance shafts the boxer 4 needs to the offset between two cylinders. And to minimize crankshaft webs and very narrow bearings. And this A thin web is easier to break than a thick one. And than a wide bearing. If you put a boxer 4 crankshaft next to an inline 4 you see that I mean the differences become painfully obvious. that then push onto the crankshaft, in a and you better be knowing what you're broken crankshaft or whatever. Now the V4 engine is Many will say that it's the best engine for a motorcycle, a benefit without some sort of drawback attached. which makes the motorcycle more narrow, more But the V4 is also longer than the inline negatively impact motorcycle handling. Also the front ones which can make cooling the rear two But as many of you know the V4 engine It's often used and there's a reason why it's allows more precise, more organic, more manageable As we know in an inline 4 all four pistons are slowing down and speeding up together at the same time. This means that all the forces associated with the piston's inertia which occur at top and bottom dead center leading to crankshaft rotation being fastest there and slowest at 270 and 90 degrees interferes with the regular torque output and results in mixed signals for the rider. In other he or she twists the throttle. The rider wants an The rider wants actually combustion torque predictable linear manner. Now the V4 engine can that we never have all four pistons speeding The result is an evened out crankshaft speed This feature of the V4 is in fact so that Yamaha made an uneven firing cross-plane the V4 without having to increase the wheelbase. shared crank pin arrangement allows a very and this is definitely something that you want if you Also the way that cylinders are distributed in the V4 bore without increasing engine length, and this which are very over-square, which can be very all four cylinders are together next to each other in bore almost immediately leads to increased it's usually easier to increase displacement And there you have it, three engine configurations but hundreds I hope you enjoyed that and maybe even As always thanks a lot for watching and I'll be seeing you