Translator: Oriel Yu By a show of hands. How many of you believe you with just a pencil and piece of paper? Well, I'm going to show you And in so doing, I'm going to give you the skill necessary to become a world-class artist. And it shouldn't take But before I do that, how many of you believe of a solid gray square? (Laughter) Every one of us. And if you can make one gray square, you can make two, three, nine ... Truth of the matter is, if you could made just one gray square, it'd be very difficult to argue that you couldn't make to replicate the image in its entirety. And there you have it. I've just given you the skills necessary (Laughter) I know what you're thinking. &quot;That's not real art, certainly wouldn't make me So let me introduce you to Chuck Close. He's one of the highest-earning artists he creates his art You see, what stands between us and achieving even has far less to do with possessing and far more to do with and make decisions to solve them. And because of the continuous of all those millions of decisions that we face on a regular basis, even a marginal improvement in our process can have a huge impact on our end results. And I'll prove this to you by taking a look at Back in 2004, when he first became he was ranked 680th in the world. It wasn't until the end of his third year that he jumped up He went from making 250,000 a year in prize money alone, and of course, he did this In 2011, he became the number one started earning an average and winning a dominating Now, here's what's really interesting about all of these very Novak doesn't control any of them. What he does control that he needs to make in order to move the probability in favor of him achieving And we can quantify and track by taking a look at the percentage Because in tennis the typical point involves I like to refer to this So, back when he was winning he was winning about 49% Then to jump up, and actually earn for swinging a racquet, he had to improve to just 52 percent. Then to become not just number one but maybe one of the greatest players he had to improve to just 55 percent. And I keep using this word &quot;just.&quot; I don't want to imply this is easy to do, clearly, it's not. But the type of marginal improvements are easily achievable And I'll show you what I mean. From kindergarten, all the way yes, that's high school (Laughter) every one of my report cards Steven is a very bright young boy, if only he would just What they didn't realize was I wanted that even more than they wanted it for me, I just couldn't. And so, from kindergarten I was a really consistent C, C- student. But then going into my junior year, I'd had enough. I thought I want to make a change. I'm going to make a marginal adjustment, and I'm going to stop being a spectator and start becoming an active participant. And so, that year, instead of pretending, again, that I would suddenly be able for more than five I decided to assume I wouldn't. And so, if I wanted to achieve doing well in school - I was going to actually And so I made a marginal adjustment. If I would get an assignment, I wouldn't think of it as five chapters, I wouldn't even think of it I would break it down into these tasks that would require me to focus So, maybe three or four paragraphs. That's it. I would do that and when I was done I would get up. I'd go shoot some hoops, maybe play video games for a few minutes, and then I come back. Not necessarily to the same assignment, not even necessarily to the same subject, but just to another task that required From that point forward, all the way through to graduation, I was a straight-A student, Dean's List, President's Honor Roll, every semester. I then went on to one of the top for finance and economics. Same approach, same results. So then, I graduate. I start my career and I'm thinking, this worked really well for me. You know, you take these big concepts, these complex ideas, you break them down and then along the way, you make a marginal that ups the odds I'm going to try and do this in my career. So I did. I started out as an exotic It then led me to be global head for Bank of America, global head of emerging markets It helped me deliver top-tier returns as a global macro hedge fund and to become founder and CIO So it gets to 2001, and I'm thinking, this whole idea, it worked really well in school, it's been serving me well why aren't I applying this like to all those big ambitious goals So one day, I'm walking to work, and at the time my commute was a walk from one end It took me about 45 minutes each way, an hour and a half a day, 30 hours a month, 360 hours a year, when I was awake, aware, listening to music on my iPod. So on my way home from work that day I picked up the first 33 CDs ripped them and put them onto my iPod. But I didn't stop there. Because the truth of the matter is, And I knew that at some point, I'd switch away from the language So I removed that temptation That left me with just one option: listen to the language tapes. So ten months later, in the German language program, listened to each one three times each. And I went to Berlin for a 16-day When I was done, I invited my wife We walked around the city. I spoke German to the Germans, My kids were amazed. (Laughter) I mean they couldn't close their jaws. But you and I, we know, there is actually nothing amazing I made this marginal adjustment This marginal adjustment to my process. (German) Und jetzt, ich spreche And now I could speak some German. And so in that moment, I'm thinking, it's not supposed to be this easy to learn a new language. You're supposed to do that And yet here I had done it. This marginal adjustment. So what other big ambitious goals putting off until retirement, that I could potentially achieve if I just made a marginal So I started doing them. I earned my auto racing license. I learned how to fly a helicopter, did rock-climbing, skydiving. I learned how to fly planes aerobatically. Well, if you're like me, back in 2007, you might have the same goal I had. I was just moving back from London. I was about 25 pounds overweight and I wanted to rectify that. So I could go to the typical route, you know, I could write a check Or I could swear to myself eat those foods that I love but are doing all the damage. And I knew that going that route So I decided to become I thought about the habits and passions and I thought, can I make just so that they work in my favor And so I did. I've got a habit where I've been walking an hour and I've got this passion And so that year, I didn't actually set the new year's I set a resolution to hike all 33 trails in the front country And I'd never been on a hike (Laughter) But the truth of the matter is, You have to break this big ambitious goal down into these more the types of decisions that need in order to improve the odds of achieving It's not about even one trail. It's about those tiny little decisions, you know, like when you putting in just a little extra time Or you're lying on your couch, clicking through the channels or scrolling through your Facebook feed, and in that moment, You go put on your hiking clothes, you go walk outside your front door, You walk to your car, get in, You get out of the car at the trailhead, and you take one step, Every one of those steps is a tiny little decision that needs in order to achieve the ultimate outcome. Now, when I say I want to hike people think about the decisions That's not what it's about. Because if you don't make when you're on the couch, there is no decision that occurs So by the end of the year, I'd hiked all 33 trails I did them a couple of times each. I even did a few in the backcountry. I lost the 25 pounds, by doing the hardest the Pier to Peak. In 2009, I got really ambitious, ambitious for a guy who still, and focus on anything for more and that was to read 50 books. But again, it's not It's not even about reading one book. It's not about reading a chapter, It's about that decision when you're sitting at your desk or when you're lying on the couch, or flicking through your Facebook feed, and you put down the phone. You pick up a book and you read one word. If you read one word, you'll read a sentence, a paragraph, you'll read ten books, 30 books, 50 books. In 2012, I got really ambitious. I set 24 new year's resolutions. 12 of them were where I did 12 charitable things But it's not without its failures. I tried to donate blood, and they rejected me I tried to donate my sperm; I tried to donate my hair, and it turns out nobody wants grey hair. (Laughter) So, here I was trying to do something and it was having the opposite effect. So anyway, I've also had to learn 12 new skills. And when I was done with unicycling, jumping stilts and drumming, my wife suggested (Laughter) And I'll be honest, I wasn't all But one day, I'm sitting that's 2.6 miles up the cold and I'm thinking, that tree would look (Laughter) And so I went home and Googled this, and it turns out it is a thing people do, you wrap these public And, the second annual was just 82 days away. (Laughter) So for the next 82 days, (Laughter) if I was in a board meeting, in an airplane or in the hospital, I was knitting. One stitch at a time. And 82 days later, I had done my first ever yarnbomb. (Applause) And the response to it blew me away. So I kept going ... (Laughter) with bigger, more ambitious projects that required more engineering skills. And in 2014, I set the goal in Los Padres National Forest But if I was going to pull this off, So at this point, I had a few as &quot;The Yarnbomber.&quot; (Laughter) And I started getting packages - 388 contributors In the end, I didn't wrap I wrapped 18. (Applause) So I kept going with bigger, more ambitious projects that would require me like fiberglass, and wood, and metals, which culminates in a project where I wrapped the Children's Hospital. (Applause) Along the way, I stopped knitting. I never really liked it. (Laughter) But ... I like crocheting. (Laughter) So, I started making these because that's and I thought along the way: I need big stuff. So, I started making So one day, I come home and I've got this really large granny, and I went to the website of Guinness. I was curious what's the world's And it turns out (Laughter) So I applied, and they rejected me. So I appealed, and they rejected me. I appealed again, and they said fine, if you make it ten meters by ten meters, and you will be a Guinness So, for the next two years, seven months, 17 days, one stitch at a time, I finally reached more incorporated more than 30 miles of yarn, and I am now the official for the largest crocheted granny square. (Applause) (Cheering) Along the way, I've garnered an awful lot I've been featured in Newsweek magazine, Eric news, which is But what I want you to realize I'm still that C- student. I'm still that kid who can't settle down or focus for more than five And I remain a guy who possesses All I do is take really big, that people seem to marvel at, break them down to their simplest form and then just make to improve my odds of achieving them. And so the whole reason I'm hoping to inspire several of you to pull some of those ambitious dreams off the bookshelf and start pursuing them by making Thank you. (Applause)