Photographer, activist, rockstar heartthrob, Linda McCartney had many important roles in Who'd have thought marrying a Beatle would Well-to-do upbringing Many stories of the rich and famous start that's filled with struggles, uncertainty, didn't have much of that at all. While her father, the Bronx-born Leopold Epstein, had made their way to the States seeking a that Linda would grow up comfortably. Linda's mother, Louise, on the other hand, when they married. In Howard Sounes' book Fab: An Intimate Life as privileged. Her family had an East Hampton beach house and on Park Avenue. She had had a hit song written about her which her siblings were the sort that married into Founding Fathers. If there was anything difficult about her father. As Linda demonstrated more interest in animals was to ridicule her. By the time she was a teenager, she found Her New York City home was perfect for seeing backstage tours and even attended recording Divorced before Paul Linda Eastman was born in 1941, and like many She was dating the Princeton-educated geologist have inspired the character of Jo-Jo in the Whether or not this is true, he did move to namesake, and Linda followed. According to Sounes, Arizona would remain her life. Although she studied art history, according she was much more interested in the state's While she was living in the Southwest, her mother was killed in a plane crash. After briefly returning to her devastated She recalled in a later interview, &quot;It was a kind of escapism. I was very immature. I just escaped.&quot; She married the boyfriend she'd followed across While Linda loved her daughter dearly, sources by her domestic life. So, when her husband opted to take a job opportunity the life of a newly divorced, single mother. An introduction to photography Linda's time in Arizona was significant for birth of her child, for it was also in Arizona class. &quot;She studied Art History here, and really to the art of photography.&quot; She recalled to The San Diego Union-Tribune instantly fascinated by her classmates and Her first photos were taken on a borrowed her instructor was very impressed. She explained, &quot;I never went back. I just started taking pictures, and it all That, according to Danny Fields, was particularly to New York. Not only was she taking her own photos and Dorothea Lange, but she also fell in love Fields recalled visiting Linda in New York in particular galleries. He soon discovered she knew the layouts of time in them. It began with the Stones As Howard Sounes recounts in his book, Linda when she received an invitation to join the An editorial assistant at the time, she accepted She'd often say that she was the only photographer this claim in his Linda McCartney biography. Regardless of this detail, Fields recalled Datebook, and his photographer fell through. So, at the end of the night, he asked the to share. Linda did, and Fields said the photos that the other photos that were taken that day. He even called them &quot;the sexiest pictures What's more, the Stones did more than pose which turned into a full-fledged fling. It wouldn't last, of course, but she'd later the most important of her life, saying, &quot;That is when my life really began -- when me. Photography saved me. It was like, 'Wow, there is life after death.'&quot; An epic career For a very brief time, Linda became known However, according to Fields' biography, this began to think that the last name &quot;See&quot; was by Eastman once again. To see the 1960s through the camera lens of When the University of Arizona's Center for dedicated to her work, it didn't just feature Stones, Aretha Franklin, Jimi Hendrix, Bob of the era. &quot;She got such access to all these different light and how she didn't interfere with her Not only was she lauded for her ability to in front of the camera, but everyone knew to get the cover of Rolling Stone with a picture Despite her access to so many big names in of the biggest events of the decade due to She recalled to Fields, &quot;I didn't have an agent, I didn't have an I did it all myself, on public transport.&quot; Meeting Paul McCartney Linda's relationship with Paul McCartney would first meeting in a Soho club called the Bag the book Rock and Other Four Letter Words. According to Danny Fields, while the two hit somewhat accidental. Linda was there with members of the Animals, they bounced to another club, Paul invited Here's where an art history degree came in paintings he'd just gotten by the surrealist Linda was not only familiar with the artist, and personal. She then got into a press conference where release of Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band and chatted She returned to the U.S., and it was more However, Fields recalled, even after those she'd never said about any of the other famous &quot;Paul McCartney is so wonderful, I really When you know, you know By 1968, Paul McCartney was several years an aspiring actress who wanted to focus on for him to return from various Beatle-related According to Danny Fields, it was on one of New York City -- that Paul reconnected with However, it would be a while before the two Friends recall Paul inviting her to spend making public appearances with Asher on his Paul eventually invited Linda to London, and moved pretty quickly. She was pregnant by December of that year; her, and they formally got engaged around The wedding, too, happened fairly quickly, And even though there was no official announcement crowds of disappointed fans who gathered and Lots of hate The breakup of The Beatles famously came after on the scene, so it's not surprising that &quot;This is something you musn't do, see, with You musn't marry them, because you come in According to what Linda told biographer Danny She recounted that threats were thrown at physically attacked by maniacal Bealtes fans She recalled, &quot;There was nothing I could do about the way the idea of them always lurking out there, She also had a complicated relationship with in the public eye. Unfortunately, as Howard Sounes observed, a much more unfriendly and uptight person Decades later, Linda would still fall back While the attention that comes with celebrity she was able to withstand whatever the media Collaborating with Paul Linda McCartney may not have been as involved thought, but there's no denying the fact that Paul McCartney started making music with Wings. While critics may have accused her of planning that couldn't be farther from the truth. She explained, &quot;It was hard work, and he really did have And it was very tough on me. It's nothing I elbowed my way into; to this this. But we want to be together -- that's why At the same time they were putting a band alone up on their farm in Scotland. While being interviewed for his website, Paul journey to the farm, and the time they spent &quot;She saved me from general, overall excess. Which was pretty much total, sort of, party The experiences they had in Scotland would their album RAM. Funny enough, it was while watching lambs to make their famous foray into vegetarianism. As Linda went on to write vegetarian cookbooks accused her of pressuring Paul to make the However, both Paul and their daughter Mary choice they were proud to have made. Her tragic passing Linda McCartney was diagnosed with breast was told that the cancer had spread. She passed away the following month -- just the last time. She was just 56 years old, and the second cancer; his mother had died of the same illness He told the BBC he had been devastated, saying, &quot;I think I cried for about a year, on and You expect to see them walk in, this person I cried a lot. It was almost embarrassing, except it seemed Since then, Linda's family has carried on In addition to Paul's continued devotion to Stella told W that her vegan skincare line Their other daughter, Mary, has followed in as well. Not only has she released books and filled with a charity called Maggie's, which provides