- There was a time when because, well, they It took years before I figured out why. I didn't understand that there's more to sandwiches between two slices of bread. So, in this video, how to make one or two sandwiches I like, I'll give you the concepts you can use to improve the sandwiches (upbeat music) Obviously, there are all Knife and fork sandwiches Sandwiches usually left to the pros like the Philly cheese steak. Sandwiches that are best when freshly made like grilled cheese. These aren't the ones I I wanna look at the simpler ones where there's a primary ingredient like a deli meat or egg salad, and it's slipped between When I'm making this style of sandwich, there are three concepts I consider. First, the treatment of the bread, second, contrasting flavors and textures, and third, the assembly. Let's take a look at Andrew Janjigian's pan bagnat to see how these concepts to the next level. He starts by removing the of a baguette before toasting it and brushing it with a layer After that, he lays down made with nicoise olives, red onions, capers, anchovies, On top of that salad, there's some really nice oil-packed tuna. After that, we shingle On top of the tomatoes, our Then the rest of that olive before it gets capped with Finally, it gets wrapped and (upbeat music) I've pressed this sandwich Let's unwrap it and give it a try. First up, isn't it nice that nothing falls out There was a lot of stuff in there and that pressing really helped. But, enough talk. The sandwich has all of from a nicoise salad, the tuna, the egg, the capers and herbs, the olives. It's pungent, it's punchy, it's rich. There's this nice chew from (upbeat music) Pan bagnat teaches us a couple things about how to handle the Generally, you're gonna want your bread to make up about a That's enough bread for but not so much that the filling gets lost or the sandwich becomes tricky to eat. If you're working with something like a bagel or a baguette, consider removing some of the interior. This gets you a less bready sandwich, and it forms a trough for The other consideration is It's not necessary, and especially if I'm using fresh bread or sliced bread that's On the other hand, it adds and browning the surface of the bread. That, in turn, lets the bread absorb moisture without falling apart. If you've got an especially stale bread, consider taking an extra couple of minutes to griddle the slices. Simply spread the thinnest layer of oil or butter on the bread and cook the slice in a until it's crisp and brown. Griddling does two things for It crisps the surface really quickly, minimizing how much the bread dries out, and it adds a touch of richness. By the way, it's up to one side or both sides. After you've got your bread ready to go, it's time to think about the filling. (upbeat music) There's a lot to learn from the filling of Andrew's pan bagnat. First, it's well-seasoned. Andrew uses salt and Second, the combination of ingredients offers a lot of contrast. What do I mean by contrast? Well, when it comes to texture, we've got chewiness from the bread and tenderness from the egg. Then there's the crispness of the crust against the On the flavor front, we've got savory tuna versus pungent onions and sweet tomatoes next to the heat of the mustard. Applying these principles is easy. When you're using a raw ingredient like sliced tomatoes or avocado, help them with a sprinkle or get creative and use or scattering of capers to season. As for contrast, start by figuring out the qualities the bread and Then pick complimentary And remember, there are a that bring more than one quality. Now, this is all very general, so let's take a look at some examples. (upbeat music) Here I have some Turkey and that bread is gonna And the turkey is tender and lean. I've got some contrast there So what I'm looking for is and some richness to offset the lean. Now I could add tomato and but let's try something else. How about kimchi and avocado? The kimchi is juicy and and acidity to punch up the flavors, and the avocado is rich and creamy. So here's my ciabatta, and this is looking like a for the amount of filling I have. So I'm gonna ditch a First up is the avocado. I want to flatten it out a little bit. I wanna give it a little bit of salt, and I like these slices on the Avocado slices slip when and the holes in the ciabatta So that looks good. And then we've got our turkey. And last up, the kimchi. Now, this kimchi, it's looking like it came It's not loaded with juices. If this kimchi came from where all the juices are, I would blot it first. This is what I want in a sandwich. I want it to hold Nothing's dripping out The kimchi is spicy, it's juicy. Avocado's rich. That turkey flavor is still there. Great sandwich. (upbeat music) So what about a rich I've got egg salad here and rye, and to compliment them, I need something with crunch and acidity. I like radishes for peppery crunch and some sort of pickle would be nice. Now, you could use You'd probably wanna chop that up first because those pieces can be large. Pickled peppers would be nice, but I really like the sweetness that bread and butter pickles bring. I'm gonna start with the radishes. And it's actually kind of The larger ones you kind or you risk kind of pulling them out. These smaller pieces are less problematic. And then we've got a nice, And I don't feel like I It kind of keeps the sandwich doesn't taste the same, (upbeat music) Okay, let's give this a try. So this is delicious. Egg salad is so rich that and radishes is really nice. It keeps it interesting. Sandwich is a little bit messy though, but we'll address that in a little bit. (upbeat music) Before we get to construction, here are three easy-to-make items that I like to keep around for sandwiches. Pickled avocado, Dijonnaise, For pickled avocados, you'll need a relatively firm avocado. Make a brine by stirring of distilled vinegar, half a cup of water, one tablespoon of sugar, and Cut your avocado into and drop them in the brine for anywhere between 30 Before you use them, be and you can keep these The acid from that brine will keep the avocados from browning. You can make Dijonnaise by Dijon mustard and mayo. Now you could put mustard but it really does taste better if you mix them together first. The mayo softens the mustard. The mustard brightens the mayo. It's just perfect. To make sumac onions thinly then toss with three one tablespoon of sumac and a quarter teaspoon of table salt. These are gonna rest and then they're good to go. I really love their bright citrusy flavor, and I use them in sandwiches with roasted and grilled poultry. You could also add minced herbs to them to bring even a little more flavor. Now that we know what's how do we put it together? (upbeat music) When it comes to assembly, The sandwich needs to Let's look at some reasons it falls apart and strategies for One problem is the bread falls apart. Usually, that's because from the filling, and you've got a couple of You can toast the bread to absorb water slightly. You can drain wet to remove the surface moisture, or you can do what Andrew and waterproof your bread. Andrew demonstrated this I've got two sandwiches here, and I'm gonna brush a scant of one of them and leave And these sponges dipped they're a juicy filling. We're gonna press these (upbeat music) It's been 30 minutes. Let's ditch this weight As you can see, if you and it's gonna sit a lot of those juices are gonna soak into the bottom slice of bread. By treating that bottom slice you can prevent it from and the results, it's, like, this is so mushy and soft, and this has retained its And you don't have to use You could use a slice of cheese Another common problem is Now here you have a As I said earlier, you can to create a trough for the filling. You could press your sandwich or you can be strategic about the layers. Place grippy items like alfalfa sprouts, arugula, or potato chips between slippery items like pickles or tomatoes. Or you can just wrap that sandwich in plastic or parchment and peel that wrap away as you eat. (upbeat music) Next time you make a sandwich, take a second to think Figure out if there's a flavor or texture that you're missing, and then take a close look at what you've got stashed I bet there's something that'll make your sandwich pop. And take the time to build it properly, and it won't be long before for your sandwich secrets. What's the best way to and why is it triangles? Make your case in the comments below. If you found this video And for more great recipes, check out cooksillustrated.com.