In A Clash of Kings, Daenerys Targaryen meets "three seekers" - Pyat Pree, Xaro Xhoan Daxos, and Quaithe - who are kinda like after a miraculous birth beneath a special saviour - but anyway - Pyat Pree is a a douchebag "merchant prince" guy, and and calls herself "Quaithe of the Shadow". Like Melisandre, she says she's a shadowbinder from Asshai. A shadowbinder seems to be someone kill Renly and Cortnay Penrose - and Asshai steeped in darkness and magic and mystery, much like Quaithe herself - beyond her name and where she's from, we know nothing to Dany, offering cryptic advice. What's In Qarth, Quaithe tells Dany to "Beware which as Jorah says, is good advice. Later, she says magic is becoming more powerful in the world of ice and fire, which is something that it's happening because of the birth to leave Qarth. Dany asks where she should you must journey south. To reach the west, back, and to touch the light you must pass this means Quaithe wants her to go to Asshai, which is, after all, "Easternmost and southernmost of the great cities of the known Asshai that I will not find in Qarth?", probably possible for Dany to go to Asshai - it's about as close to Qarth as Meereen is. Some suggest Dany might pass through Asshai, go the west. But there's good reason not to R. R. Martin has said that "[We will see all". Further, it seems really silly to after we hear it. Right? So it seems unlikely But she means something important, 'cause appears to Dany again, seemingly in a dream, In Dance, Quaithe appears a third time, and Quaithe if she's dreaming, and Quaithe says actually there, and that only Dany can see burning". This may explain how Quaithe candles are magical Valyrian artefacts that like palantiri in Lord of the Rings, or just, to Marwyn the Mage, allow you to "enter sounds like what's happening to Dany. And glass candle, it's not like they're super-rare the Targaryens of Aemon's day seem to Night-Walker has some, in Qarth, where Quaithe presumably still is. So it looks like Quaithe is using a glass candle to communicate with That's one puzzle solved, but Quaithe gives and after her the others. Kraken and dark the mummer's dragon. Trust none of them. seneschal". This is basically a list of "[T]he pale mare" is the disease that the Yunkai'i. The "kraken"'s Victarion Moqorro, the "lion" Tyrion, the "griffin" Martell. "[T]he mummer's dragon" is no true Targaryen. And "the perfumed seneschal" or Varys, or the ship Tyrion was on. Interestingly, Marwyn the Mage, who's also coming for Dany. glass candle - could he be in contact with pretty straightforward, and pretty accurate, "the pale mare" and Quentyn. But she stuff. X, A Dance With Dragons. In this chapter, at the edge of the Dothraki Sea. She eats hallucinates - a lot like that scene in for Dany is huge turning point in her character. and diplomatically rule the city of Meereen she chains away her dragons when she wants Yunkish slavery, though she thinks it wrong, back I am lost". That's the mantra by side of her personality, the Targaryen side. tells herself her home is in Meereen, she back she is lost. But in this chapter, she who you are ... The dragons know. Do you?" reminds her of her Targaryen blood, the grass children, a vision of Jorah reminds her that Westeros, he says "Remember your words", the conclusion of this chapter, Daenerys says off on Drogon, hunts and eats a horse, thinks of a Dothraki khalasar. Dany is going back to to "Fire and Blood", and it all starts she says "To go forward you must go back", "to [go] west" stuff presumably means Admittedly, the bit saying "to touch the doesn't really fit this interpretation very well. does make it tempting to believe that this means unlikely. So maybe the light and shadow stuff a pretty good explanation of Quaithe's prophecy. to transformation of Dany's character, a Blood". Maybe she'll lead a horde of Dothraki. Bay. Maybe she'll finally go to Westeros. she'll become a bit of a bad guy. This is But we still don't know what's she want? To answer these questions, let's IV Targaryen, more than a hundred years ago. fathered lots of bastards, including the original named, but he also fathered someone called is Quaithe. Now, for Quaithe to be Shiera, old, but funnily enough, Shiera Seastar's a.k.a. Bloodraven, a.k.a. the three-eyed crow, who, like Quaithe, gives cryptic guidance he was close with Shiera, maybe Shiera could not a tree-person, but The World of Ice and a sorceress, and George R. R. Martin has said the dark arts" - the same is said in The in blood to keep her beauty". So it seems extend her life. Further, there are strong Shiera is associated with stars - her mother X, in the Dothraki Sea, the stars whisper Quaithe as a "mask ... made of starlight". Quaithe's whole role in the story is symbolically that of a sea star, a guiding light that "show[s] the Dothraki] sea". Being Shiera may explain that a fellow Targaryen princess, or legitimised back to her Targaryen roots, and return "spoke[n] a dozen tongues and surrounded gotta wonder - might some those ancient called Azor Ahai? That prophecy seems to come from Asshai, so maybe Shiera Seastar went to Asshai for that reason, and she helps thinks Dany is Azor Ahai. Or she might have black artsy stuff. Or maybe she's never and wears a mask, and takes the name of Quaithe in her day, maybe she doesn't want to be to hide her unnaturally long life. We could fairly strong evidence that Quaithe may be things don't fit - like, Shiera's eyes notice that in Quaithe. But there are still and being Shiera may explain Quaithe's motivations. to refer to a transformation in Daenerys' and blood". whether you think Quaithe is Shiera Seastar,