Transcriber: Huyen Le Phuong I want to be a doctor. So when It's famously competitive, I had this routine wake up at seven and then repeat every day. One day I was sitting on the couch at uni and he says, I'm so tired. This guy studied more than me. I started studying 20 hours a day, I used to rub breath mints on which I do not recommend. So what was my result? Well, I got perfect grades and I I saw a mental breakdown because it turns But the funny thing is that when The content doubled. So my strategy wasn't going to cut it. And and I wanted to enjoy my life too. My methods got me excellent results. I tackled this in the nerdiest way For the following several years, I adjusted my techniques daily and I I was tutoring at the time too. So I saw I was so obsessed that I ended after finishing medical school And I realized that this cycle of working hard and getting inconsistent and then compensating by This is common and avoidable. Few years ago, I actually left my job to teach these skills full time. Now I work with thousands of people teaching them to learn more efficiently. So here's what I know now that Studying is not the same Studying is like reading a book but you haven't learnt it until and you can use it. And there's For example, regurgitating some facts is or solving complex problems. Researchers sometimes talk about this as higher order versus and different types of studying can generate different orders of learning. Why does this matter? and I thought I was pretty After all, I got into medical school all It's just what you do, right? Imagine you're driving along If you're like me, you pull over, pop the I don't know anything about cars. If you don't know how the engine works, Most people know that learning But what goes on in that process, do we know why and how to fix it? Causes a lot of anxiety. Well, I hope this doesn't come up Where did I go wrong? Who's had those thoughts before? We end up living in fear of learning. So step one is to learn Become the mechanic of your own brain. This thinking about thinking and research shows that those with higher And even if you're not doing you at least know how you can get better. The more you learn, the more control you This builds confidence. On the other hand, just do whatever someone tells you to do. This is probably the same thing The problem is that common methods In my practice, flashcards and space repetition. It's a common strategy on social media. In fact, in my pre-med year, I spent 4 hours a day every day But how efficient is it when we're trying at the same time? And how effective a level to solve complex problems? And some of the latest research suggests significant limitations and the majority are not getting top marks. Then taking that away is confronting. That's how I felt. Some people would How dare you challenge my main technique? I work with professionals that and they're struggling to learn They're recertifying, they're going back to uni So we can avoid problems like this One of the things that's been consistently is something called higher Now this is hot, literally hot. And higher-order thinking is the type of thinking that's needed to help those different levels of learning A characteristic feature of higher-order integrated, not isolated. You're always a wider purpose or the bigger picture. You're looking for relationships and comparing information against Low order learning is isolated. It's about memorizing facts and If you do, a lot of this, learning feels Higher order learning connects information as relevant and therefore worth retaining. If you like the same thing with low order So our brain doesn't think it's very On top of that, learning has The more you know about something, the Higher-order learning creates which is a stronger foundation As you learn more, things make more sense Unlike with low order learning, your brain doesn't know the isolated new pieces of information Exams, especially at uni and beyond, test So how do we do? More higher learning. Well, unfortunately, and so there is no agreed on Thank you. Goodbye. Just kidding. Fortunately this is one of the main things and teaching the skill is one of the core So here is my step by step guide Step one was to learn how the engine We can start this by tuning into the feeling of lower order versus I call this building a radar. You know that feeling you get when you're and you think, I am not going to remember this you know, you're gonna have to go over it again and again and again. You can feel the information slipping out Your brain is telling you this So instead of just saying, Oh, well, smashing into I notes to deal with later Flick up into the higher order and Start a tally when you study and count Some of you will realize this is the only The goal is to reduce this number by How? Step two. Group information together. Grouping information forces for relationships to see if it makes But it's not enough just to find There are so many ways you could We need to think more deeply and so that we form the groups that So ask yourself, how important is this maybe similar relationship? Often the groups that we will end up it's presented to us in And this is normal because the way that is not always the same as It takes real mental effort to not only but then to decide which relationships But that mental effort is the and that back and forth thinking is what Step one was to build that radar. Step two was to flick into those higher Step three is to leverage our notetaking. Often the attitude we have towards on the page out of mind. We don't really think about it. We just dump it in our note so we I used to spend hours every day studying Good notetaking should help our brain So don't write notes left to right I call this linear notetaking. The problem is that knowledge so it's very difficult to express groups So experiment with some nonlinear But even software and apps that for us can make it too passive. We don't want relationships and lines at the press of a button. We need to whether we want an arrowhead, even how if it's more or less important, because that's what higher It's rather difficult to do this if someone is speaking to you So I actually recommend when you've got time to stop and think. I built a complete system as an end to end method of learning as young as 12 years old, all the way in their seventies. And over the last two years, I've collected data on around 5000 of And we found that those that use a level of learning and retention that just one or two weeks. And the important A lot of people say I'm not smart enough After working with so many people, I can tell you that this is something And like any skill, it will come but training does make it easier. Around, now, usually, people it seems like this will takes a that I already can't afford. I can see And you're right. Which is why In fact, there's something called that says that when we we also see it as being ineffective. But research, especially around learning, shows us that some of the most effective So avoiding it would be like going But because the weights we think that's not working But what if it's too hard? What if we Well, sure, you could cover But only if we think about studying In reality, what I found is just re-learning the things that our brain It's hard to see how big of a deal this is If we think about studying as just one But across weeks of studying, that It's also very difficult to even reach if we're mostly thinking in the So if we need to reach a high level and we don't have time to constantly then higher-order learning is So I'll leave you with this. We all only have 24 hours in the day. or to learn? Thank you. [Applause] [Music]