Translator: Venki R Namaste. Let me share a fable with you, for stories are ways Two monks, Yesmi and Nomi, after a day of teaching They are just about to cross the river Yesmi walks up to her She needed to get back to her toddler who is living in the village Since the river has risen that day, she is feeling miserable that she will and her child would cry for her all night. On hearing her, He carries her across the river And they continue with their walk. About half an hour into the walk, he says, &quot;Yesmi, do you know Yesmi calmly looks at him. A master said, &quot;Never look at a woman, you spoke to her.&quot; A master said, &quot;Never speak to a woman, you touched her.&quot; A master said, &quot;Never touch a woman, you carried her.&quot; Yesmi calmly looks at Nomi but I have dropped her half an hour ago. It is you who still carries her.&quot; Let me take you away for a tiny experience of meditation. Please close your eyes. (Music starts: I still see a few sneaking a peek. It is safe to close your eyes. Inhale and exhale, deep and slow. With every exhale raise the edges of your lips Inhale. Exhale. Inhale. Exhale. Inhale. Exhale. Broaden your smile. Open your eyes. Do you recognize that with a little attention and a smile on your face you are more calm and more present. The power to peace is always within you. (Music ends) Let us get back to our story. Yesmi and Nomi Fundamentally, every one of us One is a stressful state; We call this no-stress state For that is how life feels Generally, stress refers to tension, but anger, fear, hurt, are all stressful states, aren't they? Beautiful state is a state compassion, vitality, and passion. If you are not in a beautiful state, your default state is stress. If you look at the entirety of human life, behind war or peace, cooperation or corrosive politics, love or separation, finally happy children Behind all this is the driving force Behind every choice and every action is the driving force So the most important choice is: from which state from which state do we from which state do we want to achieve Sadly, our education, our parents, our religion do not bring In fact, the very structure of education makes us feel jealous makes us feel ashamed of being less. It is a total compromise Let us get back to our story again. Yesmi represents the beautiful state, Nomi has created a problem in his mind and is paralyzed with it; Yesmi solves the problem and continues with his peaceful walk. Nomi is agitated before the event, And his thinking becomes because of his inner agitation. Yesmi, while in action, is fully present, and once the action is complete, his departure from In a beautiful state, there is no compulsive illumination It is a state where you and a brilliance of an uncluttered mind. It is a state where you Nomi is lost. In a stressful state, you are lost; you are disconnected from the others. You might be amidst people, Yesmi is different. He helps her. He understands Nomi's distress and tries to help him out In a beautiful state, to help yourself You are outright intelligent, and your actions Let us observe Nomi a little longer. Anger and confusion have mounted In my observation, when a stressful state mounts however lofty they are, whether they are of patriotism, we become insensitive and indifferent. We hurt the very cause we served, Yesmi helped, not because he would definitely not. Nor did he help because he would He helped because he was able He was able to feel her suffering. Actions in a beautiful state not from an ideal. There have been times there have been times We have lived under stress and caused greater confusion and lives of people around us. We have lived in a beautiful and contributed to the well being War, division, and conflict when more and more of us So the big question is, how do we break free of our habitual toward stressful state? If pressure is going to be a part of life, how do we live life How do we address numerous living in a beautiful state? There are three well-trodden paths One. We live in stressful states Two. We try to escape stress. We try to achieve However, when the dopamine plateaus, we are left feeling Three. We try replacing inconvenient into more convenient ones. The problem, however, is to get you off the gravitational pull And we succumb back into the vortex We need a greater inner power And that is the way of inner truth. About eight years ago, while at Big Bear Lake in California. We emerged safely from the accident. But while in the waters, Krishnaji, my husband, realized the root cause He saw what kept suffering alive after a stressful event Past and present circumstances, can trigger stress in us. But they do not keep us chained While in the waters, he saw the true reason He saw all emotional suffering arising It is a total preoccupation with oneself. It is a total incessant And it is this preoccupation It is this preoccupation that is responsible for war, conflict, and division of every kind This truth can be inconvenient for us, but if we can observe in the light of this insight, then this truth can liberate us, this truth can set us free. In suffering, in unhappiness, you are preoccupied with yourself. We are preoccupied we are preoccupied we are preoccupied with opportunities we are preoccupied with love It is a total preoccupation with oneself. And in this state, we are not concerned with finding For the entire thinking That's all we think in unhappiness. Let us observe Nomi Throughout the story, he is preoccupied. He is preoccupied with his rightness, he is preoccupied with his guilt He is not concerned about the situation, nor is he concerned about He is constantly justifying within himself that he was right and that he was great Realizing that all lingering and suffering that it's an obsessive is the most powerful antidote for any form of suffering When you see it - not only you walk out of stressful states, but there is a great release of energy, and you awaken to a sense of power, connection, freedom, and purpose. We know the way now. Let's do it. It works. (Music starts: What the stars Let us do a small Please close your eyes. Please remember, it is about being human. It is about returning Bring attention to your breath, inhale and exhale, deep and slow. Observe yourself. Are you in a stressful state, or are you in a beautiful state? Observe yourself. Are you engaged with your past, or are you engaged with your future, or are you in the present? Observe yourself. Are you preoccupied with yourself, or are you in a state of connection? Just observe. Do not try to change anything. Imagine a flame glowing Bring a gentle smile to your face, open your eyes, look into the eyes of the person (Music ends) wish from the bottom of your heart that the other person and if you are comfortable, (Laughter) Thank you so much. Namaste. (Applause) (Cheers)