- There are many proposed AKA, where are all the aliens? In 2021, a new one was published that has gained a lot of attention, the so-called Grabby Aliens Hypothesis. Today I'm gonna explain and ultimately why I don't buy it. Interestingly, grabby of an economist, not an astronomer. That's Robin Hanson. The basic idea is that the development of intelligent life is but in some small fraction of cases, the aliens become grabby. Okay, so what is grabby? It's simply a species that and changes stuff in a fairly obvious way. Hanson leans on his and argues that is a defining quality and thus, by extension, aliens too. Grabby aliens are, by and if they were out there, of the sky that were in some from the rest of the universe. A key feature of the model of intelligent life is very rare, and in fact, humanity can be of a series of improbable known as the Hard Steps Model. This Hard Steps hypothesis popularized by the In a seminal paper from a series of doors with hard to pick in a fixed interval of time. Now, if the average time to pick each lock is longer than the available window, a so-called hard lock, they'll get through even the first door, let alone a series of them. But like monkeys and a typewriter, given enough instantiations, and pick through all of the It turns out that even if these locks have wildly different difficulty levels, the people who do luckily break will look back and find that it took them about the same amount of time to break through each of those doors. So now Carter applies this He argues that there were that were necessary to get to us, but they would all appear if they were all hard steps. Yet more, the time left on the clock would roughly equal the divided by the number of hard steps. So given that the Earth has of 5.4 billion years, but only has about 0.9 billion years left, this yields six hard So to come back to grabby aliens, the fact that these transitions are hard means that barely anyone after just 14 billion years, The current population is just that happen to break But here's the thing. Some other earths out there, but not us, could last for trillions of years. And for them, success but when using this model. Even if the steps take they have the patience to wait it out. The idea of planets lasting After all, the most common is an M dwarf, and those indeed last for trillions of years. So this creates a dilemma. Most sentient conscious hundreds of billions, if not The fact that we live of the cosmos presents Hanson argues the solution to this problem is to put a deadline for civilizations to emerge. New civilizations simply cannot emerge a trillion years from now because something about the universe And to Hanson, that These species expand out and gobble up all of the habitable real estate, leading to a permanent phase change that prevents species like So that's the basics of the model. But when trying to estimate such as the expansion, Hanson and colleagues have to contend with a fairly obvious piece of evidence that flies in the face of this theory. We don't see any grabby aliens out there. And remember, by definition, grabby aliens are obvious To get around this, they of setting the speed of in fact, approaching the speed of light. Since we can only receive of the cosmos at the speed of light, then we have no way of until they were basically here. The final model ends up of the universe is currently and that this expansion wave is growing, filling in the remaining holes as it goes. We'll encounter this wave of colonization in about a billion year's time, and Hanson predicts a one in 10,000 chance that we will ourselves become such a grabby civilization So that's the idea and it has caught on. PBS Space Time, have made videos describing this idea which have amassed tens Hanson himself has discussed the idea on Lex Fridman's podcast, and I think you would be forgiven at this point for assuming that the idea and almost canonical at this point. You know, I don't usually make videos weighing in on other people's theories, but many of you have asked and I haven't seen any pushback out there. So I am gonna offer a counterweight. But before I do, let me first just say that I think this idea is very and I hold Hanson's work in high regard. Out of respect, I sent ahead of making this video and we even chat about What I hope my criticism does here is provide an opposing position so you can ultimately about this provocative idea. With that in mind, let's Before I do, I just wanna take of today's video, and that is Storyblocks. One of the most challenging parts of making these kinds of We are often searching for to explain a concept, and this is where Storyblocks saves the day. They offer a huge library sound effects, music, supporting things like After Effects, Premier Pro and DaVinci. That is over 1.5 million digital Thanks to Storyblocks, to create stunning, high-quality videos. For a single monthly subscription, you can get licensed and unlimited access to their huge library. To get started, head to Once again, that is Clicking that link helps us out too, so please do check them out. Now back to the video. Okay, when it comes to grabby aliens, I have three major criticisms, so let's walk through these together. Criticism number one, Grabby aliens is predicated which we don't know to be true. It may very well be that the development of intelligent life is in fact very easy. It just takes a few A remarkable feature of evolution is the continual growth a property that assembly theory argues could even be used to At the end of the day, if intelligence bestows evolutionary advantages, then perhaps it is inevitable A few years back, I took and life on Earth, including and published a Bayesian The result was inconclusive. Everything we know about our with either a hard or easy step model. You can check out our earlier video for a deep dive all about this. Okay, so is there any other Well, one might be tempted, to take his six inferred steps, look back at the evolutionary record, and try to identify what A possible six-step would eukaryotes, sexual reproduction, animals, and then civilization. But here's the thing, that is after assuming that the An evolutionary biologist could whether each of these or perhaps there might be some other missing hard steps like This whole exercise is and to me, it doesn't for the Hard Steps Model. In the original paper, Carter argued that the ace in the hole for hard steps was that it explained Why is it that the main sequence lifetime of the sun is comparable to the time skill it took intelligent life to develop? He argued that there's why these two should be connected, but hard steps explains since most lucky lock the last door near the end Now, I'm no evolutionary biologist, although neither is Carter, that this really is a coincidence. Let me just offer one The Earth's environment is obviously totally dominated by the sun, and over the last four billion years, the sun's luminosity has and that will obviously impact the Earth. The early Earth likely but as the sun increased in luminosity, it increased the rate of precipitation and weathering on the Earth, to pull CO2 out of the air the chemical composition So the Earth's environment that is linked to the sun's and those changing conditions evolutionary adaptations So I don't really accept and without that, the Hard Steps Model lacks any data-driven, explanatory power. To be clear, I am not claiming that the Hard Steps Model merely that it is unproven, and therefore, it serves as a shaky foundation for the Grabby Aliens Hanson's model not only but also that the number of on every planet and moon out there. Given the potential enormous for which life could thrive, I'm not sure I'm comfortable with In the end, there could that the Hard Steps That is the probability of transitioning from a human-like civilization Perhaps that probability and that explains why we don't see them out there in the sky. So let's move on to my which concerns the treatment of M dwarfs. Even if hard steps holds, this for me is the most concerning issue of the paper. Look, the Hard Steps Model the emergence of intelligent civilization should be a very rare event. That's because the stars less than 10 billion years, typically much longer than Yet more, the sun-like The universe is just the same kind of numbers that it used to. This fact is also true for But crucially, those stars should live for trillions of years. So even if the locks are hard to pick, they have the patience to wait it out and eventually succeed. So this poses a problem. In the story of our should be born at far, around these diminutive M dwarf stars. Grabby aliens makes the over time and thus solves this problem. We were not born a trillion there's hardly any earth-like My whole problem with there is a much easier That is that M dwarfs are If M dwarfs cannot, for whatever reason, produce intelligent beings like ourselves, then it is no surprise that we don't live in the M dwarf-dominated future. There's two reasons why I than the Grabby Aliens Hypothesis. First, we already are that suggests that M dwarfs really are a danger to their planets. They exhibit intense flaring for the first billion years of their life that can strip parts of Recent JWST data at the that the two innermost planets have indeed long lost any thick atmosphere. Super-Earths with their might be able to resist this process, but they pose other challenges. Many are hypothesized to be ocean worlds for which technology in an aquatic environment. For example, how you can do combustion. Further, their higher surface gravities has been shown to make them prisons for chemical rocket systems may simply never have a space age. So we have legitimate but a second reason why I is that by doing so, it kills Grabby aliens tries to solve the mystery as to why we don't live when M dwarfs dominate. If instead we remove the then that obviously but it also solves an we don't live around M dwarf I've dubbed this the Red Sky Paradox in a previous paper and M dwarfs greatly outnumber sun-like stars, and thus the fact we is already kind of weird. Grabby aliens has no way I think it's actually really and myself got interested humanity's apparent early emergence in the history of the universe but we arrived at totally I'll let you decide which Last but not least, my third criticism, which is best described As noted earlier, Hanson's hypothesis has a pretty obvious major issue. Grabby aliens are, by and yet we don't see them. This point would ordinarily It disagrees with observation. But to get around this, the theory invokes what to me is a kind of It states the grabby at speeds close to the speed of light. This conveniently solves the problem, because of course, we traveling at the speed of A classic example is that we wouldn't know about because it takes light that long to travel the distance For me, this jeopardizes grabby aliens is what we might call a for it means that there is that can falsify this The philosopher, Karl Popper, used the criterion of falsifiability to delineate science from metaphysics. If a theory cannot be falsified, it cannot be considered The other philosophical complaint is a complaint which I've actually had about many other alien topics as well. Look, Hanson points out a the same one I highlighted Why do we live in the early Obviously, I think that is an interesting and poignant question since, of course, I've published it already myself. My problem is that Hanson invokes aliens as a solution, and to me, aliens should be the solution of last This is just my personal preference, so feel free to disagree here, but time after time, history has taught us to be careful about invoking aliens to explain things that What's that weird interstellar asteroid? Aliens. What's that weird pulsating star? Aliens. What's that weird streak on Mars? Aliens. And yet, every time, we were wrong. We have a bad habit of invoking because it's so damn everything and anything you want. You know, it's remarkably invoked gods and deities to why the rain falls, and I think we can do better. So those are the three major reasons why I don't buy this theory. I think a far simpler First, M dwarfs don't to develop on them, and our apparently early Second, the emergence of just doesn't happen for some reason. No need to invoke speed of Despite my criticisms, for Robin Hanson's work, is thought-provoking and our discussions of It is an important theory And I hope that this discussion and ultimately shows how we can cordially and respectfully disagree As always, I'd love to hear your thoughts down below in the comments. I really do appreciate seeing And if you wanna hear my or other alien theories, down below in the comments. So until next time, everyone, stay thoughtful and stay curious. (calm music) Hey, thank you so much I hope you enjoyed it. Be sure to hit the Like If you wanna become a the Cool Worlds Lab, you can use the link up above, down below, I And if you haven't already Just go to Cool Worlds Podcast on YouTube, again, links down below, Thanks again for watching. (calm music)