In today's chess video, we are going to look in the center game. We start with the king's pawn opening - e4, game. The most common reply from black is to take From here, an aggressive move could be c3, But we are not covering that in this video. If you'd like to see a video on the Danish Now back to our game : as White, we play Queen the knight, as expected. From here, we are going to look at 4 different But along with these Traps, I also want you use here. Because these tactics can be easily applied well. Let's start with the first trap, setting it Here black goes for queen e7 attacking this Then knight c3 defending the pawn. Black goes for knight f6, putting additional Then we go for bishop g5 pinning this knight Now black goes for pawn to d5, adding a third Keep in mind black can play these 3 moves the center so ultimately you will reach this Now in this position, we will completely ignore inviting black to capture this pawn. Black takes and we take back with our knight. Now if black tries to be greedy and takes Let me show you how. He can't take with the knight because of this might think that we have gifted our knight tactical idea here. Can you find it? Yes, it's rook to d8 check. He can't take with this knight because it the king, then we can simply gobble up his He won't be able to take back with the knight That's what you call an incredible queen trap. Now let's look at another one, but this time After queen d4 and knight c6, white goes for this opening. Then we go for knight f6 and white plays bishop After this, we'll go for knight to e5, attacking The bishop drops back to b3 keeping it on Now we will go for bishop b4 check. If white blocks with the bishop, then we have But most often, you will see pawn c3 attacking This is where we can unleash a deadly trap Now if the queen takes, then we have knight Therefore, taking the bishop is not a good He has to move his queen and g3 looks quite But then we have another tactical idea, can It's the stunning move, bishop to f2 check, If he takes with the queen, then knight d3 And after bishop takes, if the king captures in the action with knight takes e4 check, Alright, now let's look at another interesting After queen d4, knight c6, queen e3, we straightaway White blocks with the pawn. So we have to retreat our bishop. Now white has many options like knight f3, let's go with that. In the center game, black is generally reluctant But at this point, we can go for this move After knight f6, if white attacks with e5, just think: Is there any way to ignore this There is actually a nice little tactic here. Let's see how it works. So we ignore this knight and go for a short If white falls for this trap and takes our rook to e8 and this sweetie is gone. White can't move his queen because it is pinned Therefore, black wins the queen and ends up Moving on, let's look at an incredible game ideas to checkmate the black king. But before that, a quick reminder. If you want to enjoy more chess content like me on Instagram at Chess Talk Official. Alright, In the center game, after Queen d4, Then black played bishop b4 check. White blocked with the c pawn, attacking the Bishop goes back. Then comes bishop c4. Now black develops his knight to e7, preparing Then comes queen g3 attacking this pawn. Black simply castles and prevents any such White did not attempt bishop h6 since black Instead white goes for h4 trying to control Sensing a strong attack, black wanted to shift he went for knight g6. Then came h5 as expected. Black moved his knight to e5 attacking the And here's where white came up with an absolutely Can you find it? White started with bishop g5 attacking the Now black cannot take the bishop since it Nor can he push this pawn forward because Therefore, he has to move his queen to e8. And then comes bishop f6 which is winning White is threatening a mate on the next move White captured on g6 and now If black takes Therefore, instead of the pawn, black captured But then, white sacrificed his queen, by queen Black took with the pawn and white finished Okay, so it's puzzle time. Let's pick a puzzle from one of my favorite We go to the Chess Academy, let's go to the It is White's turn and its a mate in 3 moves. Can you find the winning continuation for If you can find the solution to this puzzle, All the best guys. Let's see how many of you can solve this. You can download the Chess Universe App from below. Well, If you enjoyed this video, then hit And for some extra chess content, you can Thanks for watching &amp; I shall see you in my