Scott Sullivan: Hi, Mark. Hey, man. Scott Sullivan: I'm Scott. How are you going? Not bad. How are you, mate? Scott Sullivan: Nice to meet you. You too, mate. Yeah. Scott Sullivan: So, these are your kids out Yeah, mate. Scott Sullivan: So you've got Finn, Georgia... And Mia, the small one. Mia, the little girl, yeah...Yeah, with my Kelly. Kelly, yeah. Scott Sullivan: Now, Mark, I need some advice Um, Abbey's six - my little girl - and I'm in the next couple of months. Is there any advice you've got as to how to as possible? How do I go about doing it? What do I do? It's probably the hardest thing you'll ever Scott Sullivan: There's no known cause.....there's I know what my fate is. Come on, Charlie. Let's see if we can catch her. She's very good. I know exactly what's going to happen. Green aliens, that's right. READS: Andy's going to college any day now. Scott Sullivan: You know, if it had to happen rather than the kids or Sarah. Charles Sullivan: Sometimes I lie awake thinking I'm 80 years of age. I think &quot;Will I go before Scott? &quot;or Scott, will he be around when I go?&quot; Then I say &quot;Hey, wouldn't it be great if we TIM NOONAN: Scott Sullivan was born in April and Kath. Kath Sullivan: Scott, as a boy, was a very Always smiling, always happy. He just went with the flow. TIM NOONAN: He grew up in Queensland. Loved the beach, his rugby and school. Scott Sullivan: Just a really enjoyable upbringing. TIM NOONAN: But his biggest love is Sarah. They met 15 years ago. Scott Sullivan: Sarah was a friend of a friend TIM NOONAN: Was it love at first sight? Scott Sullivan: There was probably a lot of so, um...but, uh, yeah, as soon as I saw Sarah, TIM NOONAN: Four years later, Scott proposed. Sarah Sullivan: He said would I do him the Cheers to our 10-year anniversary. Who'd have thought it, when we met in London? That's right. TIM NOONAN: They have two children, 2-year-old Scott Sullivan: Oh, no! Abbey Sullivan: Drawing a picture. TIM NOONAN:..and 6-year-old Abbey. Abbey Sullivan There's me, there's me, there's Sarah Sullivan: Can you wave to Daddy? Can you see him out there? Can you see Daddy out there? TIM NOONAN: Scott and his family live in Brisbane Bank. Hi, Jeremy. What about those Springboks, eh? Bit unlucky. Scott Sullivan: I was living the dream, you Had a great job, lived in a very nice house, rugby all my life... Group: Yes! Scott Sullivan: I love rugby, I love all my Sez, I don't see you clapping. So, really, it was, you know, a dream come TIM NOONAN: Then, 12 months ago, Scott noticed At work, he couldn't pour a coffee. Scott thought he'd pulled a muscle. Sarah insisted he see a doctor. TIM NOONAN: Hi, Scott. Scott Sullivan: Oh, G'day, Rob. How are you? Dr Rob Henderson: How do you do? Rob Henderson. Scott Sullivan: Nice to meet you, Rob. Dr Rob Henderson: Come on through. Scott Sullivan: Excellent, thank you. Dr Rob Henderson: How are you feeling today? Scott Sullivan: Oh, not too bad, bit nervous, and, um, it all happened really quickly. Dr Rob Henderson: And we can actually count measure than trying to assess your muscle Scott Sullivan: In a matter of probably about that &quot;I think you've got Motor Neurone disease&quot; Dr Rob Henderson: We don't have an effective I hope that that's a situation that's gonna at this stage where we lie in 2011. Scott Sullivan: And then he said, um, that so that was really, really tough. And then I didn't really know what to do so obviously, I was in no state to do that so to take today off&quot; then, um, I caught the the park for about an hour, just to collate Sarah wasn't expecting me home - and then, - pretty much had to say &quot;I'm dying&quot;. TIM NOONAN: Do you remember the day that he Sarah Sullivan: Yeah, clearly. Um, it's etched in my brain. Can't forget it, can't erase that one. I'm pretty good at blocking things out but Never seen him like that - but then, he was TIM NOONAN: It's a doctor's job to heal the with MND will die. Average life expectancy is 27 months. Dr Rob Henderson: For many medical people, TIM NOONAN: Why is that? Dr Rob Henderson: Because people retain all progressive weakness which leads to such severe are the things that really, I think, frighten Scott Sullivan: Here's Nanna and Charlie, Yeah, let's go say hello. Kath Sullivan: I can't bear to think of him, to swallow, not being able to cuddle his children If it's meant to be, I will have to accept Charles Sullivan: It's one of these things going to happen. Stacy Neild: Mark, I love you so much. Mark Nield: Love you, Stacy. TIM NOONAN: Brisbane couple Mike and Stacy Man: By the giving and receiving of rings, husband and wife. You may kiss the bride. TIM NOONAN: One year after their wedding, Stacy is 29. Motor neurones are a series of pathways which When the disease strikes, those pathways fade A command to move a leg, an arm, or to speak Last to go is the ability to breathe. Rob Henderson is also Stacy's doctor. Dr Rob Henderson: I just think it puts perspective uh, we've all got a certain length of time and we've all got to make the most of it, isn't it? It's so easy to not be making the most of Mark Neild: Yeah. It's really so easy to just be cruising along about still having touch is she can still Dr Rob Henderson: And you sleep together... Mark Neild: Yeah, yeah. ..in the same bed? Yeah, yep, still sleep in the marriage bed. Yeah, nothing's changed there, yeah. We hold hands a lot still and, you know, we close with each other all the time, which Stacy Neild: Yeah, we're surviving. Mark Neild: You're surviving. Stacy Neild: Yeah. With a lot of work. A constant battle. Mark Neild: It's a constant battle. Scott Sullivan: In the later stages, it can You know, it's your body that's failed you TIM NOONAN: I can see there's twitching on Scott Sullivan: Yeah. The, um, the arms do twitch quite a bit in It's more just annoying than painful, um, I have. For me, the things I'm struggling with at up my left cufflink, um, you know, changing and just small, finite things I'm starting TIM NOONAN: Do you worry about the kids not Sarah Sullivan: No, 'cause everyone will tell He'll be here for a lot longer but, um, just etched in their brain that they'll never forget. The kids...I just catch him watching them it, it's the kids. He knows I'll be fine, he knows his family be there for the kids and he should be and That's the worst, it's the kids. TIM NOONAN: If you had a special message, Abbey Sullivan: Um, I love you to the moon TIM NOONAN: What's breaking your heart? Scott Sullivan: Um, the kids are... TIM NOONAN: They don't know yet, though, do Scott Sullivan: Yeah, so that's going to be yeah, I mean, how do you tell your daughter TIM NOONAN: Abbey is six. How much do you love him? Abbey Sullivan: This much. TIM NOONAN: How much? Abbey Sullivan: This much. TIM NOONAN: This much? And whenever he can... Scott Sullivan: Alright, Abbey, this is your TIM NOONAN: ..Scott is recording video messages Scott Sullivan: Hi, Abbey, it's dad here. Now, I'm going to give you some advice on All the boys out there, they're bad news, So you have to be very, very picky and choosy TIM NOONAN: Charlie, his son, is also getting Scott Sullivan: Alright, Charlie, Daddy's rush into this, because once you start shaving, for the rest of your life. TIM NOONAN: While Scott can still walk, he's After his diagnosis, he started training for One goal was to finish but the real goal was and to research the disease that's killing Scott Sullivan: You know, just wanted to do world and give something back. With his mates beside him, he never faltered. Sarah Sullivan: Watching him come round that mouth and I had to look away so I didn't cry. I think I did cry. TIM NOONAN: Scott has raised $380,000, and Two weeks ago in Brisbane, in recognition of Australia medal for courage. Sarah Sullivan: I'm so proud of him. Because everything he's doing at the moment Someone else. TIM NOONAN: Someone else. Sarah Sullivan: It is, and that just shows He set this foundation up within a couple it wasn't about him - it was about helping Kath Sullivan: We gather together to pray for the healing of Scott Sullivan, suffering I couldn't face up to this without my faith. I just, um, I just truly believe Scott will I'll never give up hope. Never. TIM NOONAN: It's the most baffling of diseases But now, there may finally be hope - a new Scott is one of 800 people worldwide who've Half will be given placebos. Dr Rob Henderson: It's exciting for motor a little lift in energy this year is this TIM NOONAN: It must be so frustrating not drug or you're taking the fake drug. Scott Sullivan: Yeah, it's very frustrating. I'd love to know whether I'm on the real one I'm lucky to be on any sort of trial at all. TIM NOONAN: Do you believe the impossible Sarah Sullivan: Usually, I would. Unfortunately, with this disease, I can't is he'll just stay as he is now - things won't cases that he'll just have these little symptoms Scott Sullivan: Good morning! Scott Sullivan: Charlie's been waiting for TIM NOONAN: This is a tough question but when you can't breathe, have you considered taking Scott Sullivan: Absolutely, yeah, absolutely. So, in a perfect world, I'd love the opportunity ah, that's problematic in the current world. TIM NOONAN: He said that he'd like to leave Is that something that you'd like to support? Scott Sullivan: Absolutely. Abbey: And now they're trying to teach her Is her name Mariposa? No, Ares. Scott Sullivan: Hi, sweetheart. Now, darling, listen to Mummy and Daddy. We've got something very, very important to Scott Sullivan: I know what my fate is, um, I know exactly what's going to happen. Scott Sullivan: Now, unfortunately, Daddy's weaker, OK, over the next couple of years. Scott Sullivan: I know I'm going to be paralysed, know, and I'm going to lose my speech. Abbey sullivan: Is that true? Scott Sullivan: It is, darling, it is true. it is true, sweetheart. So, when you know of those things, um, once anything, to be honest. TIM NOONAN: How'd she go? Scott Sullivan: Ah, pretty good, yeah. So, yeah, um, you know, she's a tough kid, But, uh, yeah, she asked &quot;is it true?&quot;. TIM NOONAN: What else did she ask? Scott Sullivan: Um...Oh, why did it happen piece of paper - I probably can't. TIM NOONAN: Are you OK? Scott Sullivan: Yeah, fine.