PREVAILING A Thorough Study on the Subject of Prayer Narrated by Lyle Blaker Prayer The blessings God designs to give; For only while they pray they live. When Christ stands waiting for our prayer? Arise and try thy interest there. If cares distract, or fears dismay; The remedy's before you - Pray! Make all thy wants and wishes known; Ask what thou wilt; it shall be done! Preface essential means of grace are the Word of God and born again through the living and enduring word of name of the Lord will be saved (Romans 10:13). Scripture tells us we should desire, or crave, the it (1 Peter 2:2), and we cannot grow in grace unless we also speak to him in prayer. It is by and sets us apart) but we are also instructed to These two instruments of grace must If we read the Word and do not pray, we may become builds others up. If we pray without reading the God, and become mystical and fanatical, and liable The following chapters relate especially to things that are aligned with the will of God, will to us. Scripture: For from Him and through and it is only by hearing God's Word, where we that we can pray acceptably. This means the things which are pleasing in his sight. but suggestive. This great subject has and of all good people in all ages of the book is to encourage God's children to seek by a phrase inspired by James Cowden Wallace's There Is an Eye That Never Sleeps There is an Eye that never sleeps There is an Ear that never shuts There is an Arm that never tires There is a Love that never fails But there's a power which man can wield That Eye, that Arm, that Love to reach, That listening Ear to gain. Through Jesus, to the throne, To bring salvation down! The Hour of Prayer Spent in Thy presence will prevail to make - What parched grounds refresh as with a shower! We rise - and all, the distant and the near, We kneel: how weak! - we rise: how full of power! Or others - that we are not always strong; That we should ever weak or heartless be, And joy, and strength, and courage, are with Thee? Chapter 1 Those who have left the deepest impression women of prayer. You will find prayer has been but also man. Abraham was a man of prayer, and angels came down was answered when he wrestled with God at the His meeting with the Lord resulted in Jacob Esau's heart was softened towards him. The prayer for a child. Elijah's prayer closed up and when he prayed again, the heavens gave rain. man with a nature like ours. James also says, the much (James 5:16-17). Elijah was an extraordinary prayer and the Holy Spirit rather than to I am thankful that those men and women who were apt to think that those prophets and mighty men They lived perhaps in a darker age, We read about another occasion where Elijah Mount Carmel. The prophets of Baal but no answer came. The God of Elijah heard and (1 Kings 18). Let's remember that The prophet was taken up from earth to but his God still lives, and we have We have the same permission to go to God and consume our lusts and passions - to burn up Scripture is full of examples. Elisha Some of us have children who are spiritually dead can do as Elisha did by asking God to raise them Manasseh, the king, was a wicked man, and had done The Lord allowed him to be taken into captivity. to God, the Lord heard his cry, and took him Jerusalem. Scripture: Then Manasseh knew that gods and the idol from the house of the LORD, on the mountain of the house of the LORD and in set up the altar of the LORD and sacrificed and he ordered Judah to serve the LORD Surely if God answered the prayer of wicked our distress. Isn't this a time of Aren't there many around us whose hearts are let's remember God answers prayer! strength came back, so that he killed more of the who have been backsliders will return to God, Job prayed, and his captivity was turned and in answer to prayer, God made him In Daniel 9, we read that Daniel prayed to God to While he was still praying, Gabriel Gabriel said, At the beginning of your and I have come to tell you, for you are highly understanding of the vision (Daniel 9:23). from heaven in answer to prayer. The and he was told that God's Son was going to New Testament Prayers was a centurion in the Italian regiment, prayed he had a vision and saw an angel of the Lord. When Peter arrived, Cornelius said, Now God to hear all that you have been Although Cornelius was a worshipper of Peter taught the truth about how Jesus had Scripture: While Peter was still speaking these were listening to the message. All the circumcised because the gift of the Holy Spirit had been In answer to prayer, this great blessing came upon truth and were baptized. The Holy Spirit was Prior to going to Cornelius, Peter had gone and he had a vision of a sheet being let down including those considered to be unclean for Jews. vision at the time, it would become clear to him and Gentile and between clean and unclean. Peter Caesarea. When Cornelius prayed to God without deliverance for him and his family and friends. when believing prayer went up to God, the very interesting study to go right through God's people have been on their knees calling strengthen our faith - showing, as it would, when the cry has gone up to him for help. Scripture: But about midnight Paul and Silas and the prisoners were listening to them; so that the foundations of the prison house were and everyone's chains were unfastened. When the he drew his sword and was about to kill himself, Paul cried out with a loud voice, saying, And he called for lights and rushed in, and and Silas, and after he brought them out, he said, The jailer and his whole family were baptized. more than any other recorded in the Bible So many have been blessed in seeking to answer It was the prayer of those two godly men and that brought blessing to him and his family. Consider the story of Stephen in Acts 7, who Jesus Christ and for angering the members of the Just before they dragged Stephen out of the city he gazed intently into heaven and saw the glory of and he said, Behold, I see the heavens at the right hand of God (Acts 7:55-56). calling on the Lord and saying, Lord Jesus, he cried out with a loud voice, Lord, Having said this, he fell asleep (verses 59-60). in his defense, right before he gave his rejecting God's messengers in the past - and now Scripture says, And fixing their gaze on him, face like the face of an angel (Acts 6:15). came down from Mount Sinai with the stone tablets he had been in communion with God. Scripture: So behold, the skin of his face shone, and they and Moses had to put a veil over his face. with God, he lifts up his countenance - his image our faces will shine, because God Paul demonstrates this idea of how we reflect the image, when the Holy Spirt transforms us from beholding as in a mirror the glory of the image from glory to glory, just as from The Prayers of Jesus to Christ as an example for us in all things that Christ prayed to his Father for everything. Let me share a few examples from Scripture. I was praying at his baptism. Scripture: Jesus was was opened, and the Holy Spirit descended upon Another great event in his life was his Peter and John and James, and went up on the appearance of His face became different, and His Just after Jesus healed a man on the Sabbath He went off to the mountain to pray, and He spent This is the only place where it is recorded Scripture: And when day came, He called His whom He also named as apostles: Simon, whom and James and John; and Philip and Bartholomew; and Simon who was called the Zealot; Judas the What was about to take place? When he came a large crowd of His disciples, and a great and the coastal region of Tyre and Sidon, who diseases; and those who were troubled (verses 17-18). Many people gathered around out from him, and he healed them all. discourse known as the Sermon on the Mount - the to mortal men. Probably no sermon has done so much If our sermons and messages are consciences of the people, we must spend a that there may be power with the words we deliver. stood by the grave of Lazarus, he lifted I thank You that You have heard Me. I knew people standing around I said it, so that they Notice, before he spoke the dead to life he spoke to be raised, we must first get power with God. is that we try to win them without Jesus was in communion with his Father, and so We read in the twelfth chapter of John about when about what was to happen soon. I think this is He was about to leave the Jewish nation and Listen to what he said: Now My soul has Father, save Me from this hour? But for this Then Jesus prayed, Father, glorify Your name. Then it, and will glorify it again (verse 28). Father, if You are willing, remove this cup Now an angel from heaven appeared to In that account of the memorable prayer of He withdrew from them about a stone's (verse 41). He was almost under the shadow of the be laid upon him, one of his twelve disciples was another was going to betray him for thirty pieces His soul was beyond sorrowful just When his soul was troubled, God spoke to him. I that four times an answer came right down The first time was at his baptism, when the him in answer to his prayer. The second was on the spoke to him. The third was when the Greeks came God in response to his call. Again, when he cried response was given. I don't doubt these things We read in Luke 11 that his disciples came It is not recorded anywhere that he taught them rather know how to pray like Daniel than to preach so that the grace of God may come down in answer people. It is not by eloquent sermons that we need the power of God in order The prayer our Lord taught his disciples is that is the prayer our Lord taught those think the &quot;Lord's Prayer,&quot; more properly, is That is the longest prayer You can read it slowly and carefully I think we may learn a lesson here. Our Master's but when he was alone with God, that was a night in communion with his Father. My experience generally make short prayers in public. Long and they weary the people. How short the the sinner (Luke 18:13). The Syrophenician Have mercy on me, Lord, Son of David (Matthew got what she wanted. The prayer of the thief me when You come in Your kingdom (Luke 23:42). but then saw the wind and waves and became afraid, If you go through the Scriptures, you will answers were generally brief. Let our prayers In the prayer of our Lord in John 17, we find four for his disciples around him, and Six times in that one prayer he repeats that God impostor, and he wanted them to know that he was and makes mention of his disciples and Christ's last prayer on the cross was for they do not know what they are doing (Luke find that right there in front of the It was probably in answer to the Savior's prayer. in answer to that prayer of our blessed Lord. may have followed him as he traveled to Damascus, he may have recognized the voice. One thing we do enemies of the Lord were converted. Surely that Hence we see how prayer holds a high place Prayers of the Faithful all God's people have been praying people. stained his study walls with praying breath, he sent a river of living water over the city of Martin Luther and his companions were that they broke the spell of ages, and laid John Knox grasped all of Scotland in his strong George Whitefield, after much holy, faithful, and took more than a thousand souls out of the open spaces around London and crowds gathered for he preached in open air, bringing the church building and to the rowdy crowds. thousand souls to the Lord! Look at whose prayers, faith, sermons, and and sent a wave of blessing through Dr. Thomas Guthrie spoke of prayer The first true sign of spiritual life, Man can as well live physically without There is a class of animals - the cetaceous, It is their home; they never leave it for the sounding its darkest depths, they... [often must] Without that, these monarchs of the deep could and move, and have their being. And something like the Christian has to do by a spiritual one. by rising through prayer into a loftier, that he maintains his spiritual life. surface, and they die for want of breath; and he dies for want of prayer. &quot;Let me breathe,&quot; says a man &quot;Let me pray,&quot; says the When he was a student, Dr. Edward Payson wrote memoir, &quot;Since I began to beg God's blessing on my whole year before. Surely it is good to draw near with work, said, &quot;I have so much to do that I It isn't only theologians who think and and positions in life have also felt the same. o'clock, if the hour for marching was six, of communion with God before setting out. Sir &quot;If I omit praying and reading God's Word Elements of Prayer said Scottish minister Robert Murray McCheyne, It is the link that connects earth with heaven.&quot; show that there are nine elements 1. Adoration - We cannot meet God on him as one far beyond our reach or sight. We cannot have any communion with God while there a man some wrong, you cannot expect that man's 3. Restitution - We have to make amends 4. Thanksgiving - We must be thankful 5. Forgiveness - We must forgive others and pull 6. Unity - Loving one another 7. Faith - There must be faith, 8. Petition - Thus influenced by the other things, requests, to God. We hear a good deal of praying if you did not see the person's eyes closed, you of what is called prayer is simply finding fault. 9. Submission - After all these, there we must be ready to accept the will of God. in each of the following chapters. We will round that illustrate the certainty of our receiving The Trinity Forever be adored, In our Redeemer stored. That chose us in our head; To suffer in our stead. With reverence we address And splendid righteousness. For His great work we praise, Their grateful voice to raise. We join to praise, for grace As shining from His face. Chapter 2 What is Adoration? defined as the act of rendering divine honor, Adoration literally signifies applying the hand countries, this is one of the great marks of before God in this spirit is great, and thus it In The Lord's Prayer: A Practical &quot;Man's worship, apart from revelation, has We come to God either to thank Him for benefits benefits: food, raiment [clothing], health, we tend to correlate the worship we offer to God &quot;This style of petition, in which self does not altogether absorb, our supplications, is of false systems, but in the majority of the He suggested our prayers are like the they look another way. &quot;We seem to go toward and this may be the reason why many times our Noah's ark, and never return. But when we make they go forth like the dove, and return How to Pray prophecies of Daniel. He was one of the men who of heaven upon himself and upon his people. He to seek Him by prayer and supplications, with LORD my God and confessed and said, Alas, O Lord, and lovingkindness for those who love Him The thought I want to call special O Lord, the great and awesome God. Daniel dust - and he also put God in his right place. prostrate before God, that God spoke to him. Thomas Brooks, that grand &quot;A person of real holiness is much affected and Unholy persons may be somewhat affected and taken holy souls that are taken and affected with his the more deeply he or she is affected by God's God is the sparkling diamond in the ring of glory. anything rather than with this,&quot; Brooks said. much as a conversation on the holiness of God,&quot; nothing makes the head and heart of a sinner nothing galls and gripes, nothing stings and setting forth of the holiness of God. But to suit and satisfy them, that do more delight and than those that do most fully and powerfully Our Attitude in Prayer we must adore and reverence his name. The same In the year of King Uzziah's death I saw the with the train of His robe filling the temple. with two he covered his face, and with two he called out to another and said, Holy, Holy, Holy, of His glory (Isaiah 6:1-3). When we see the Moses had to learn the same God told him to remove his shoes from his feet, When we hear men trying to act as if they are they make light of the holiness of God. It is his when we do that, we will be facedown in the dust. You remember also how it was with Peter. When Peter fell at his feet and said, Go away from A sight of God is enough to show us We find that Job too had to be taught the same said, Behold, I am insignificant; what can I reply As we hear Job discussing with his of the holiest men who ever lived. Listen honor, and wealth with his Scripture: When I went out to the gate of the young men saw me and hid themselves, and the old and put their hands on their mouths; and their tongue stuck to their palate. and when the eye saw, it gave witness of me, and the orphan who had no helper. The blessing and I made the widow's heart sing for joy. My justice was like a robe and a turban. I I was a father to the needy, and I investigated He longed for the days when God took care of him. as in the days when God watched over good man he was! But it was all I, I, I. because he had some questions for Job to answer. I will ask you, and you instruct Me (Job 38:3). language. He saw his own vileness and God's Scripture: I have heard of But now my eye sees You; Therefore I retract, The same thing is seen in the cases of those those who came properly, seeking showed a lively sense of his Prayer As Worship of whom we read in the eighth chapter of But when Jesus said he would go and heal him, the come under my roof, but just say the word, Jesus commended his faith. And Jesus said you as you have believed. And the servant Scripture is full of examples of those who requests. Jairus, one of the synagogue Jesus as he presented his request for healing We read of the leper who came to Jesus, beseeching and saying, If You are willing, You can make me His hand and touched him, and said to him, In Luke 5, it says the leper fell on his We read the story of a Syrophenician woman, in the land of Canaan, who came and fell at her daughter who was possessed by a demon. Yes, Lord, but even the dogs under the Jesus rewarded her persistence and He told her, Because of this answer go; the back to her home, she found the child lying on The beloved disciple, John, spoke of the when they were abiding with him as their Lord. only begotten from the Father (John 1:14). and tender their love, they reverenced as much as Of every act of prayer we may say the same When once thy foot enters the church, be bare; Only by His permission. Then beware, Kneeling ne'er spoiled silk All equal are within the churches' gate. go to the house of God and draw near to listen for they do not know they are doing evil. Do to bring up a matter in the presence of God. therefore let your words be few (Ecclesiastes life, and to know something of God's holiness contact with him, that he may reveal himself. those men of old were compelled to do. We shall taught his disciples when he said, Hallowed be irreverence of the present time, it seems to me when we draw near to God in prayer, let's give him receive a kingdom which cannot be shaken, let an acceptable service with reverence and awe; for Confession Come I to Thee; Bend I the knee; Yet is this still my plea, Ah, mine iniquity Infinite, infinite, Sin of not loving Thee, Infinite sin. Sadly my sin; All I have been. Wash Thou my soul this day; Lord, make me clean! Chapter 3 Another element in true prayer is confession. I do to the unsaved. I think we as Christians All Have Sinned you will find that the men who lived were those who confessed their sins confessed his sins and those of his people. He was one of the best men then on the face of of the deepest and most humble on record. Daniel and pleaded with the Lord in prayer and Scripture: Alas, O Lord, the great and lovingkindness for those who love Him and keep His acted wickedly and rebelled, even turning Moreover, we have not listened who spoke in Your name to our kings, our princes, Righteousness belongs to You, O Lord, but to of Judah, the inhabitants of Jerusalem and all far away in all the countries to which You have which they have committed against You. our princes and our fathers, because we Thomas Brooks, referring to &quot;In these words, you have seven circumstances that sins; and all to heighten and aggravate them.&quot; 1. We have sinned. 3. We have done wickedly. 5. We have departed from Thy precepts. 7. Not our princes, nor &quot;These seven aggravations which Daniel reckons serious consideration,&quot; Brooks said. man and a mighty prince, yet he had to So you will find it all through the Scriptures. he beheld himself in his true light, and he I am a man of unclean lips, and I live among a the King, the LORD of hosts. (Isaiah 6:5). have to confess her own sins before A True and Deep Revival There must be a deeper work among God's about time to give up preaching to the ungodly, If we had a higher standard of life in the flocking into the kingdom. It was the same turned away from their sins and their idols, the Study the history of Israel, and you will find God visited the nation, and a mighty work of and deep revival in the church of God. I have going to reach the masses by a cold and formal You notice that when Daniel got that wonderful he was confessing his sin. That is one of the Scripture: Now while I was speaking and praying, Israel, and presenting my supplication holy mountain of my God, while I was still whom I had seen in the vision previously, about the time of the evening offering. He gave O Daniel, I have now come forth to give you In the same way, when Job confessed his sin and restored his fortunes. God will hear our prayer him, and confess and forsake our transgressions. I am dead, that the blessing came. The live coal and he went out to write one of the most What a blessing it has been to the church! God dealt in mercy with him. I acknowledged my sin I will confess my transgressions to the LORD; Notice how David made a similar confession I have sinned and done what is evil in Your and blameless when You judge (Psalm 51:4). the words of the prodigal: Father, I have I am no longer worthy to be called your son the king and the beggar when the Spirit of Richard Sibbes quaintly said of confession, we have laid open our souls to God, and laid do that way - for let us think what the of death and the day of judgment.&quot; He said the and so we should accuse ourselves as the Devil accuse and judge ourselves, and set up a will follow an incredible ease. Jonah was cast Achan was stoned, and the plague was stayed.&quot; Sibbes said, and we will soon have calm and wonderful serenity. &quot;It must needs be so; for when honored by confession of sin every way. It honors sees our sins and searches the hearts. Our secrets Sibbes proposed, isn't it our fear of his power our sins? And what makes us confess our sins, that You may be feared (Psalm 130:4), and there else,&quot; said Sibbes. &quot;With men it is, confess, and have mercy. It is his own protestation. We it honors God, and when he is honored, he honors Praying with Penitence &quot;Man's owning his weakness is the only stock for Confession implies humility, and this, A farmer went with his son into a wheat field father,&quot; exclaimed the boy, &quot;how They must be the best ones. Those that hang their The farmer plucked a stalk of each kind This stalk that stood so straight is while this that hung its head so modestly Outspokenness is needful and We need to be honest and frank with ourselves. soldiers, I am not excited; I am convinced - that that I ought to say so, to tell you so, and is a call for sinners seeking Christ to come for I have nothing but sin to show. I do not go But going will be telling the truth. I ought and going forward for prayers is More than twenty went with him. Entreat the LORD that He remove the frogs A fatal flaw is manifest in that prayer. He says not, &quot;I have rebelled against the Nothing of the kind; he loves sin as much as without acceptance. If no tear has fallen upon sinner through a Savior, but by no other way. &quot;God, I thank Thee that I am not as other but he who cries, &quot;God be merciful to me a has himself appointed. There must be confession Leading by Example it will be so among the ungodly also. I never revive his work in the hearts of his children, There are a great many fathers and mothers who I have had as many as fifty messages from parents their children are not saved, and asking prayer the fault lies at our own door. that stands in the way. It may be there is David lived for many months in the awful sin made his appearance. Let's pray and ask God to If it is a right eye, let's pluck it out; that we may have power with God and with man. cut it off and throw it from you; for it is better than for your whole body to Why is it that so many of our children drifting away into infidelity and going to be very little power in the Christianity their children are going astray. Does it arise There is a passage of God's Word that is often those who quote it stop at the wrong place. In is not so short that it cannot save; Nor is His Of course, God's hand is not but we ought to read the next two verses: But you and your God, and your sins have hidden His hands are defiled with blood and your fingers your tongue mutters wickedness (verses 2-3). themselves - they stood in their own light, they the way of mercy, and they hindered him. 'Your Sincere Confession contemplating wickedness in our hearts, or living expect our prayers will be answered. There is tremble when I hear people quote promises and say when all the time there is something in their It is well for us to search our hearts and find The first chapter of Isaiah is a solemn passage: of Sodom; Give ear to the instruction What are your multiplied sacrifices to Me? offerings of rams and the fat of fed cattle; lambs or goats. When you come to appear before Me, Bring your worthless offerings no longer; Incense the calling of assemblies - I cannot endure The King James Version says, it is Even our pious gatherings! Think of that. If none of it; it is an abomination to him. appointed feasts; They have become a burden to Me; your hands in prayer, I will hide My eyes from I will not listen. Your hands are covered with Remove the evil of your deeds from My Seek justice; Reprove the ruthless; Defend the reason together, says the LORD, Though your sins Though they are red like crimson, they Think of this! He who turns away his ear from abomination (Proverbs 28:9). It may shock some of yet if any are living in known sin, this is what to turn from sin and obey God's law, we have no Unconfessed sin is unforgiven sin, foulest thing on this sin-cursed earth. man has been honest in dealing with sin, where God The prayer of the humble and the contrite heart up from this sin-cursed earth so sweet to his ear Searching Our Own Hearts in which he said, Search me, O God, and know And see if there be any hurtful way in me, and I wish all my readers would If we would all honestly make this prayer once in our lives. Search me. Not my neighbor. but so hard to get &quot;home to ourselves.&quot; the Lord's work are very often in danger David got home to himself. There is a difference I may search my heart, and pronounce it all right, many things will come to light that Try me. David was tried when he fell by taking Know my thoughts. God looks at the thoughts. our hearts against God or against his If there are, then we are not right in the sight I do not know any better prayer that One of the most solemn things in Scripture history are - were tested and tried, they were found to Let's be sure that we are right in how we live. said we should ask our heart two questions now A few words, but a very serious question.&quot; question and the first greeting we use with one &quot;I would to God we sometimes thus spoke to our you for your spiritual state?&quot; Ambrose How is my heart? What is its spiritual condition? &quot;Heart, what wilt thou do? Or, heart, what As that dying Roman once said, whither art thou and I going, and what will Moses proposed this very thing to Israel, Would that they . . . would discern Listen to the rest of what Ambrose had to say: And oh that we would put this question and debate upon! Commune with your own heart, said between you and your hearts to the very utmost. with them, as that they may speak their very and clear intelligence and It was the confession of a divine, sensible of of this duty. &quot;I have lived,&quot; said and carried my heart in my bosom all this while, and as utterly unacquainted, as if Nay, I know not my heart; I have forgotten my the very heart, that my poor heart We are fallen into an Athenian age, spending our something new (Acts 17:21). How go things here? But who is there that is inquisitive? Weigh but in the balance of a serious in this duty, and what time otherwise? And days that we owe to our hearts in this should have been fifty vessels full of Oh, the days, months, years, we bestow upon while we afford not a minute in converse If there is anything in our lives that is wrong, selfish? Have we been more protective of our thought he was zealous for the honor of God, but self was really at the bottom of it. One of to deal with in his disciples was this very thing; who should be the greatest, instead of each in his own estimation. We find proof of this in Scripture: They came to Capernaum; and when He What were you discussing on the way? for on the way they had discussed with one Sitting down, He called the twelve and he shall be last of all and servant of all. and taking him in His arms, He said to them, receives Me; and whoever receives Me John said to Him, Teacher, we saw someone to prevent him because he was not following us. no one who will perform a miracle in My name, and who is not against us is for us. (Mark 9:33-40) Scripture: James and John, the two sons of we want You to do for us whatever we ask of You. you? They said to Him, Grant that we may sit, one But Jesus said to them, You do not know what that I drink, or to be baptized with They said to Him, We are able. And Jesus said and you shall be baptized with the baptism with on My left, this is not Mine to give; but it Hearing this, the ten began to Calling them to Himself, Jesus said to them, rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them; and But it is not this way among you, but whoever servant; and whoever wishes to be first among you did not come to be served, but to serve, and to The latter words were spoken in the third year of been with him; they had listened to the words that this lesson of humility. The most humiliating occurred on the night of our Lord's betrayal, If there was any place where there should it was at the supper table. Yet we find that there was a debate going on among his disciples right under the cross, when the Master was deeply he was already tasting the bitterness of were gathering upon his soul. I think if God searches us, we will find If we are tried and tested by God's law, there I ask again, are we selfish or jealous? Are we than we are? Are our Methodist friends willing the Baptists? Would they rejoice in their souls to willing to hear of a reviving of God's work in If we are full of narrow, party, and sectarian aside. Let's pray to God to search us, and try If these holy and good men felt they were to find out if there is anything in our lives let me call your attention to the A friend of mine told me some years ago that I think it would be a good thing if we offered up from our hearts. Be gracious to me, O God, According to the greatness of Your compassion blot iniquity and cleanse me from my sin. For I know Against You, You only, I have sinned and done justified when You speak and blameless when You and in sin my mother conceived me. Behold, You the hidden part You will make me know wisdom. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than let the bones which You have broken rejoice. my iniquities. Create in me a clean heart, O Do not cast me away from Your presence Restore to me the joy of Your salvation and teach transgressors Your ways, and sinners will be O God, the God of my salvation; Then my tongue O Lord, open my lips, that my mouth may declare otherwise I would give it; You are not pleased are a broken spirit; A broken and a contrite do good to Zion; Build the walls of Jerusalem. in burnt offering and whole burnt offering; If we have been proud, or irritable, or lacking Isn't it time that we began at home and quickly the ungodly will then begin to inquire parents set our own houses in order and be be long before our children will be inquiring Encountering God by its lukewarm quality and formality, the all the books that nonbelievers ever half so much as the cold and dead formalism One prayer meeting like the one the would shake the whole nonbelieving fraternity. You are not going to reach We want to &quot;move the arm that moves the world.&quot; For if our heart condemns us, God is greater than heart doesn't condemn, then have confidence toward because we keep His commandments and do the things Perfect Cleansing Must to God's holy altar bring Its hopes, its loves, its powers, its years, The will, and every cherished thing! Choose God, and dare reproach and shame, For him who paid redemption's price; And trusting wait, nor doubt, but pray &quot;Thy faith hath saved thee; now receive.&quot; Is all upon his altar lain; And crucified with Christ, we fall When, faithful to his word, we feel And know that he does sanctify. Chapter 4 A third element of successful If I have at any time taken what does not restitution, my prayers will not go very but I have never touched on this subject in my A man once told me that I would not need to dwell as probably there would be no one present that Spirit of God searches our hearts, most of us will Making Things Right things looked altogether different. I venture entered into his mind before. That morning, he But when the Lord came and spoke to him, he Notice how short his speech was. The only thing half of my possessions I will give to the poor, I will give back four times as much (Luke 19:8). ringing down through the ages! By making that dishonest. Besides that, he showed that he knew taken what did not belong to him, he was not only I think those who are exempt fully honest as men under the law. I am getting that does not straighten out a man's life. prayers, but they will be an abomination to straightforward in our daily life. Nothing will as to have God's believing people begin more influence in Jericho after he made Charles Finney, in his lectures &quot;One reason for the requirement, 'Be not salutary, and instantaneous influence it on the principles of the gospel.&quot; Finney suggested do business on gospel principles for one year. ring louder than thunder. Let the ungodly consulting the good of the person they are but every man another's wealth - living above the than it would be the means of glorifying God - would cover the world with confusion of face, Finney makes restitution to be one &quot;The thief has not repented who keeps the but no repentance. If he had repentance, he would anyone, and do not restore what you have taken not set about to undo the wrong you have done, as In Exodus we read, If a man steals an ox he shall pay five oxen for the ox and And also, If a man lets a field or vineyard that it grazes in another man's field, he shall and the best of his own vineyard (verse 5). Or offering is laid down - the same point is Scripture: When a person sins and acts his companion in regard to a deposit or a security extorted from his companion, or has found what so that he sins in regard to any one of the things becomes guilty, that he shall restore what he or the deposit which was entrusted to him or the he swore falsely; he shall make restitution for give it to the one to whom it belongs on the day If we didn't already understand it thing is repeated in Numbers, where we read: the sons of Israel, When a man or woman commits against the LORD, and that person is guilty, then and he shall make restitution in full for and give it to him whom he has wronged. But if made for the wrong, the restitution which is made besides the ram of atonement, by which These were the laws God laid down for his people, as it was then. If we have taken anything from any let's not only confess it, but also If we have misrepresented anyone or some false report about him or her - Pure Motives related to making restitution, God says in Isaiah: strike with a wicked fist. You do not fast like Is it a fast like this which I choose, Is it for bowing one's head like a reed and Will you call this a fast, even an What good is fasting if we keep Performing rituals that look like expressions This passage shows a picture of what it looks Scripture: Is this not the fast which I to undo the bands of the yoke, and to let Is it not to divide your bread with the hungry When you see the naked, to cover him; And not to True fasting brings awareness to the cause of the are oppressed. A heartfelt prayer is accompanied Scripture: Then your light will break out like forth; And your righteousness will go before you; Then you will call, and the and He will say, Here I am. (Isaiah 58:8-9a) when we turn fully to the Lord, and he will hear true change can lead to restitution. Let's look practical situation. John Trapp, in his commentary Sultan Selymus could tell his counselor, Pyrrhus, he had taken from the Persian merchants upon that God hates robbery for burnt offering. restored to the right owners, which was done who mind nothing less than restitution. friar Minors a load of frieze to clothe them, that he ought not to give alms of neither would they accept of that abominable gift. of goods detained, you shall cough in Henry VII, in his last will and testament, devised and willed restitution should be made by his officers. Queen Mary restored again all saying that she set more by the salvation of bull came also from the Pope, at the same time, Latimer tells us that the first one came and gave him 20 to restore; another time another gave him 200. was struck in the heart for one dash of the of his master, and could never be quiet till, by for which he did willingly forego all the private &quot;I, myself,&quot; said Mr. Barroughs, but of five shillings, and fifty years after Signs of True Repentance forth fruit. If we have done wrong to someone, are willing to make restitution. If I have done I do not need to ask God to forgive me Suppose I have taken something that does not I make restitution. I remember preaching in an at the close. He was in great distress of mind. taken money that belonged to my employers. How &quot;Have you got the money?&quot; I asked. He had taken about $1,500, and he still had about into business, and make enough to pay them back?&quot; that he could not expect to prosper on all he had, and go and ask his employers &quot;But they will put me in prison,&quot; he &quot;No, you must restore the money before &quot;It is pretty hard,&quot; he said. mistake was in doing the wrong at first.&quot; in fact, unbearable. He handed me the me to take it back to his employers. mercy from them, not justice. The tears and they said, &quot;Forgive him! Yes, I went downstairs and brought him up. After we all fell down on our knees and had a blessed There was another friend of mine who had come and his wealth to God. He had formerly had taken advantage of them. This thing came He had a terrible struggle; his conscience he drew a check for $1,500 and sent He told me he received such a That is bringing forth fruits that are fitting are crying to God for light, and they are A man came to one of our meetings when we touched transaction flashed into his mind. He saw at once but . . . my prayer kept returning to my bosom, as the Scripture phrase puts it (Psalm and went to a distant city, where he He went straight to this man, confessed Then he remembered another transaction in which and at once, he made arrangements to have place where we were holding the meetings, and I have not met a man for a long time who Never Too Late a woman came to one of the meetings and appeared she did not seem to be able to get peace. The she was not willing to confess. At last, the &quot;I never go down on my knees to pray, but a few It appeared that years before when some bottles of wine belonging to her employer. The woman replied that the man was dead, and &quot;Are there any heirs living to She said there was a son living at some distance, thing, so she kept back for some time. clear conscience at any cost, so she took the employer resided. She took five pounds with her; but that would cover it at any rate. but she replied, &quot;I do not want it; So he agreed to take half of it and Then she came back, and I think she was one of she could not tell whether she was in the body or It may be that there is something in something that happened perhaps twenty years ago God brought it to our remembrance. If we are not to give us great blessing. Perhaps that is the The Praise of God And tell abroad Speak, stammering tongue! Make His high praises known. Heaven's utmost star, Take up the note, Creation's farthest bound. Wherein our God Speak, angels, speak! His everlasting name. Thy flesh He took Speak child of death! Bless thou the crucified. Chapter 5 The next thing I would mention as an element thankful for what we get from God. Perhaps some is constantly complaining - never thankful. You for a child like that. If you meet with a seems to be thankful for what you give him, you Ingratitude is about the hardest thing we have Blow, blow, thou winter wind, As man's ingratitude; Because thou art not seen, Blessing and Thanks which so demeans those who are guilty of it. Even Here we are, getting blessings from God thanksgiving there is in the church of God! Armor, referred to the concept of &quot;In everything Praise is becoming to the upright. Gurnall said, it. 'Evil' and 'unthankful' are twins that live he begins to be thankful. Consider it is that at your hands; he made you for this end. When happy being, in Christ, it was upon this account, on earth in time, and in heaven to eternity.&quot; on one main part of his design. He asked, except to give us the material to compose a Surely, they are My people, sons who will not deal &quot;He looks for fair dealing, you see, at your with his reputation, if not a child? Where can a Your state is such that the least mercy you Thou, Christian, and thy few brethren, What hath God that he withholds from you? Sun, sea and land have their treasures for your use.&quot; upon these things, but we are the rightful should be served by them. The angels, bad against their will, are forced like scullions when and make way for your greater comforts...the and disdain not to carry you [in their arms].&quot; portion, father, husband, and friend. &quot;God is Gurnall said. &quot;Oh, what honor is this, for Scripture: Thou shalt make them drink of And all this, not the purchase of your sweat, another hand and you are welcome: only No sin-offering is imposed under the gospel; Stephen Charnock, in speaking The praise of God is the choicest sacrifice and This is the prime and eternal part of [in] Psalm 149 and 150, speaking of the gospel Sing unto the Lord a new song...let the the saints be joyful in glory; let them sing aloud their mouth (Psalm 149:1-2, 5-6 KJV). He begins That cannot be a spiritual and evangelical in the heart. The consideration of God's adorable come to him with more seriousness, beg blessings winged faith and love, and more spiritually Mixing Praise with Prayer praise than prayer, yet how few praise meetings praise with prayer. Solomon had great power with but it was the voice of praise which brought down When the priests came forth from the holy had sanctified themselves, without regard to Asaph, Heman, Jeduthun, and their sons and harps and lyres, standing east of the altar, blowing trumpets in unison when the trumpeters with one voice to praise and to glorify the LORD, by trumpets and cymbals and instruments of music, is good for His lovingkindness is everlasting, was filled with a cloud, so that the priests for the glory of the LORD filled the We read of Jehoshaphat, who gained and Moab through praise, which was Scripture: They rose early in the morning and when they went out, Jehoshaphat stood and Jerusalem, put your trust in the LORD Put your trust in His prophets and succeed. he appointed those who sang to the LORD and those before the army and said, Give thanks to the When they began singing and praising, the Moab and Mount Seir, who had come against Judah; It is said that in a time of great despondency someone proposed in one of their public assemblies their provoking heaven with their complaints, much to be thankful for, and moved that instead appoint a day of thanksgiving. This was done, Always Room for Gratitude However great our difficulties, or deep even our Adams said, &quot;Lay up in the ark of thy memory but even Aaron's rod, the very scourge of Blessed be the Lord, not only giving, but taking upon roses to heaven, puts his children into the eats out the rust of corruption. God sends our deliverance; and lastly, the all Call upon Me in the day of trouble; I (Psalm 50:15). Like the nightingale we can Since all that I meet shall work for my good, Though painful at present, And then - oh, how pleasant! Among all the apostles, none suffered so much thanks as often as he did. Take his letter to Philippi, how they beat him and cast him into of rejoicing and giving thanks. There is that but in everything by prayer and supplication known to God (Philippians 4:6). As someone be careful for nothing, prayerful for We always get more by being thankful Paul says again, We give thanks to God, the for you (Colossians 1:3). So he was constantly and you will find them full of praise to God. truth that Jesus Christ loves us and gave himself A farmer was once found kneeling at a soldier's said, &quot;Why do you pay so much attention &quot;No,&quot; he said. &quot;During the war my family were all One of my neighbors came over and said, 'I will He was wounded at Chickamauga. He was carried I have come a great many miles, that I might write The believer can always say this of his truth of it. Scripture: Through Him then, let us that is, the fruit of lips that give Pardon oh joy! my sins are pardoned! All I have; and am, and shall be, He roused my deathly slumbers, Whispered peace, and drew me to Him Let the babe forget its mother, True to him, I'll love none other, Jesus, hear my soul's confession; On Thine arms for strength and succor, Calmly may my soul recline! Chapter 6 The next thing is perhaps the most difficult of keeps more people from having power with God than the spirit of forgiveness. If we allow the root someone, our prayers will not be answered. It may with all those with whom we come in contact, The Lord's Prayer a test of sonship. If we can pray it all from the been born of God. No man can call God Father but a blessing to the world, I believe it has been a They do not weigh its meaning, nor take its sympathy with the idea of universal sonship - The Bible teaches very plainly that If all were sons, God would not need to adopt any. teach that any person can say, &quot;Our Father which I think that is contrary to Scripture. Scripture: these are sons of God (Romans 8:14). Sonship Scripture: By this the children of God says the apostle John (1 John 3:10). If we are that we are born of God. If we have no desire to Another thing: we cannot really pray for If we would pray for the coming of God's we are only seeking our own condemnation. No unrighteous person really wants God's will to door of every unsaved man's house, and over his If the nations were really to put up this They tell us there are some twelve million But men do not want God's will done on earth Forgive Us Our Debts Scripture: And forgive us our debts, as we also the only part of the prayer that Christ explained. transgressions, your heavenly Father will also then your Father will not forgive your when you go into the door of God's kingdom, I never knew of a man getting a blessing in his If we are unwilling to forgive I do not know how language could be more plain believe a great many prayers are not answered Let your mind go back over the past, and through against whom you hold hard feelings? Is there any who has perhaps injured you? It may be that unforgiving spirit. How can you ask God to those who may have committed some single offense would be for me to ask God to forgive the ten But Christ went even further. He said, Therefore and there remember that your brother has something altar and go; first be reconciled to your brother, 5:23-24). It may be that you are saying, &quot;I do Does anyone have anything against you? Is there Perhaps you haven't, but I will tell you what I would do before I go and have the question settled. You will find Supposing you are in the right and they are in May God root out of all our Finding Forgiveness wanted me to talk to his wife about her soul. That and I thought it would not take long to lead her talked with her, the more her darkness increased. in still greater darkness of soul. I thought not discovered, and I asked her to repeat with me I thought if she could say this prayer from I began to repeat it sentence after sentence, to this petition: &quot;Forgive us our trespasses, There she stopped. to say it after me. She said she could not do it. She replied, &quot;There is one &quot;Oh,&quot; I said, &quot;I have got at your difficulty; it will not go higher than my head. God says he If you do not forgive this woman, God will never She said, &quot;Do you mean to say that I cannot &quot;No, I do not say it; the Lord says &quot;Then I will never be forgiven,&quot; she said. I left the house without having A few years after, I heard that this woman this spirit of unforgiveness drove her mad. against you, go at once and be reconciled. If you telling them you forgive them, and so have this being in the inquiry room some years ago; I was in There seemed to be something in the way, At last I said, &quot;Is there not She looked up at me and said, &quot;What made &quot;No,&quot; I said, &quot;but I thought as you have not received forgiveness yourself.&quot; the room, where there was a young lady sitting. we have not spoken to each other for a long time.&quot; you cannot be forgiven until It was a great struggle. But then the greater the blessing. It is human to err, At last this young lady said, Strange to say, the same conflict was going of the room. They both came to their right mind middle of the floor. The one tried to say that so they rushed into each other's arms. Then the got down on our knees together and we had a A Wall of Unforgiveness prayers are not answered? Is there some friend, you have not forgiven? We sometimes hear spoken to each other for years. How can we I remember one town that Mr. Sankey and I visited. air; there was no power in the meetings. was someone cultivating this unforgiving spirit. next to me, got up and left the meeting right in and gone home to the heart of the chairman of for about six months. At once he hunted He came to me with tears in his eyes and That night the inquiry room was thronged. The ever known, and he has been active Several years ago, the Church of England After a few years of toil and success, one Sabbath where the converts had been savages not long the service, he observed one of the men, suddenly leap to his feet and hastily go to he returned, and calmly took his place. After the asked the reason for his strange behavior. recognized in the man next to me the chief of a and drunk his blood, and I had sworn by all the opportunity. The impulse to have my revenge at the as you saw me, to escape the power of it. considered the object of our meeting, I thought 'Father, forgive them, for And I felt that I could forgive the murderer of As one has said, &quot;There is an ugly kind hedgehog forgiveness, shot out like quills. down before the blowpipe of their indignation, And when they have kneaded him sufficiently Forgive Your Enemies on his deathbed, was warned by that he was bound to forgive his and after a moment's pause, said to the queen, England] after I am dead, and tell him that &quot;It would be better,&quot; Roloff mildly suggested, &quot;No,&quot; was the stern reply. &quot;Write Another story tells of a man who, supposing he one who had injured him, but added, &quot;Now you My friends, that is not forgiveness includes forgetting the offense - putting it As Matthew Henry said, &quot;We do not forgive if we do not forgive him from the heart, for must be harbored there, nor ill-will to any; nor desires of it, as there are in many who must from the heart desire and seek the If God's forgiveness was like that often shown by &quot;I will forgive you, but I will never forget it; it.&quot; We would not feel that would be forgiveness their sin no more.&quot; In a passage in Ezekiel it that like God? Scripture: All his transgressions against him; because of his righteousness which Forgiven and Forgotten sweet truth that sin is blotted out for time and us. In another Scripture we read, their sins (Hebrews 10:17). Then when you turn to the roll of honor, you find that not one of the Abraham is spoken of as a man of faith, but it all that had been forgiven. Moses was kept out of this is not mentioned in the New Testament, though Samson too is named, but his sins are not brought He did not look much like a righteous but he was forgiven, and God made him our sins will be remembered against us Thomas Brooks said of God's When God pardons sin, he takes it sheer away; not be found, as the prophet Jeremiah speaks [in] saith the Lord, the iniquity of Israel shall and the sins of Judah, and they shall not be As David, when he saw in Mephibosheth the notice of his lameness, or any other defect or glorious image of his Son, winks at all their &quot;Do with me what thou wilt, since what is it to pardon sin, but not to mention sin? sins, go and show him his fault in private; if (Matthew 18:15). Then a little further on Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me to him, I do not say to you, up to seven times, Peter did not seem to think he was in danger how often should I forgive my brother? But I can imagine that when he did fall, the sweet about forgiving as many as seventy times but the voice of forgiveness is louder. How blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whom the LORD does not impute iniquity, and kept silent about my sin, my body wasted away night Your hand was heavy upon me; My vitality I acknowledged my sin to You, and I will confess my transgressions to the LORD; And David could look below, above, behind, and and know that all was well. Let's make up question of sin is forever settled, so we can Let's be willing to forgive others, that we remembering the words of the Lord Jesus, how transgressions, your heavenly Father will also then your Father will not forgive Union Among the ransomed throng; To him they all belong. They should be one in heart; Each claiming his own part. One building, formed by love, They shall be one above. Chapter 7 Love Binds Together our prayers answered, is unity. If we do not love with God in prayer. One of the saddest things in You notice that when the power of God came upon one accord. I believe the blessing of Pentecost for that spirit of unity. If they had been do you think the Holy Spirit would have come, I have noticed in our work that if we have gone we have had greater blessing than And if there have been twelve churches united, always been in proportion to the spirit of unity and divisions, and where the spirit of unity is Dr. Thomas Guthrie thus illustrated this when he and each would fall on the stone as and wielded by the firm arm of the quarryman, Divide the waters of Niagara into distinct and the falling rain, but in their united body they to spare for the volcanoes of other mountains.&quot; Romans and the Albans agreed to put the trial of - three on the one side, the sons of Curatius, While the Curatii were united, though all three The third began to take to his heels, though not one after another, because of wounds and and slew all three. It is the cunning trick of Sacrifice for Unity rather than permit discord and division to &quot;When two goats meet upon a narrow bridge over can turn back again, neither can pass the if they should thrust one another they might Nature, then, has taught them that if the one lays both remain unhurt. Even so people should into debate and discord one with another.&quot; Daniel Cawdry said, &quot;As in music, if the harmony the cultivated ear; so if Christians disagree There are diversities of gifts - that is we have all been redeemed with the same blood, Paul wrote, Now there are varieties of gifts, of ministries, and the same Lord. There God who works all things in all persons (1 I do not believe any power, earthly or infernal, the pulpit, and the pew get united, and God's a red-hot ball rolling over the earth, and all the I believe people will then come flocking By this, says Christ, all men will if you have love for one another (John 13:35). If there will be success. God will not disappoint us. Love One Another separation or division in the true church of and indwelled by one Spirit. If I belong to the blood, though I may not belong to the same sect or miserable sectarian walls taken away. Our weakness there to be no rift or division among those who to the Corinthians we read of the first symptoms Scripture: Now I exhort you, brethren, by the and that there be no divisions among you, but in the same judgment. For I have been informed that there are quarrels among you. Now I mean Paul, and I of Apollos, and I of Cephas, and I crucified for you, was he? Or were you baptized Notice how one said, &quot;I am of Paul,&quot; and another, Apollos was a young orator, and the people Some said Cephas, or Peter, was of the regular and Paul had not. So they were divided, and Paul William Jenkyn, in his commentary The partakers of a &quot;common salvation,&quot; who here hereafter in one heaven, should be of one heart. What an amazing misery is it, that they who agree That Christians should live This common faith should allay and temper should moderate our minds, though there What a powerful motive was that of Joseph's they being both his brethren, and the servants cannot blow out the taper of contention, oh, Divisions among Christians Paul, Cephas, and Apollos would find The little tree that sprang up at Corinth has with many of the birds of heaven gathered into it. they would hear at once about A conversation might go something like this: &quot;We have a Church of England, and there &quot;Oh, indeed! Are there two &quot;I am sorry to say there are a good many are split up. There are Wesleyans, Baptists, even these are all divided up.&quot; &quot;that there are so many divisions?&quot; divided itself. There is the Broad Church, the Then there is the Lutheran Church, and away in I declare I do not know what Paul and Cephas they would find a strange state of things. in the present day to see how God's family is the burden of our hearts will be that God may one another and rise above all partisan feeling. the inscription upon the wall behind the pulpit repairs, a little five-year-old whispered paint men to cover that pretty verse up. It was The inscription was, &quot;A new commandment I A Boston minister said he &quot;The Recognition of Friends in the Future,&quot; that it would be more to the point to preach as he had been in the church twenty years, The Power in Unity when one night as I came out of the meeting, I saw I said to a friend, &quot;Have &quot;Oh yes.&quot; &quot;Oh, we get on very well.&quot; Was your brother minister at the meeting?&quot; each other. We find that is the best way.&quot; Oh, may God make us of one heart and of one flowing together. Unity among the people of we will not find any Baptists, or Methodists, or be one in Christ. We leave all our party names Spirit of God may speedily sweep away all these Did you ever notice that the last prayer Jesus to Calvary, was that his disciples might all be alone, but for those also who believe in Me even as You, Father, are in Me and I in You, may believe that You sent Me. The glory which You be one, just as We are one; I in them and You in the world may know that You sent Me, and loved He could look down the stream of time and see to divide the flock of God. Nothing will silence as quickly as Christians everywhere being united. ungodly and the careless. But when they see how their testimony. The Holy Spirit is grieved, and If I thought I had one drop of sectarian blood in if I had one sectarian hair in my head, I would Christ, and then our prayers will be acceptable Have Faith in God Hath borne thy grief, and Still to his arms, thine only refuge, fly, Fear not to call on him, O soul distressed! He who is oftenest there is oftenest blest. Lean not on Egypt's reeds; slake not thy thirst Though man and Satan fright thee with their worst, Go, tell him all! The sigh thy bosom heaves Who gave himself for thee. Our Jesus lives; Have faith in God! Chapter 8 Another element of prayer is faith. It is it is to know how to work. We are not told that but he taught them how to pray. He then he knew they would have power with man. let him ask of God, who gives to all generously him (James 1:5). So, faith is the golden It was the shield that David took he believed God was going to deliver has said that faith could lead Christ about Faith Brings Life &quot;I cannot get it.&quot; Faith sees it and says, &quot;I then we have only to go on building on that all things for which you pray and ask, believe granted you (Mark 11:24). But bear in mind, I do not know of a more vivid illustration of in all the earnestness of deeply realized need, who visited Mount Hekla, Iceland, in 1845, had been dormant for eighty years - narrowly crater against the earnest plea of his guide. down by a convulsion of the summit, and He graphically wrote: There, over the mouth of a black and heated conscious prisoner, to be hurled downward &quot;Help! help! help! For the love of God, help!&quot; I had nothing to rely upon but the mercy never prayed before, for the forgiveness of my All at once I heard a shout, and, looking around, my faithful guide hastening down the &quot;I warned you!&quot; said he. and save me, for I am perishing!&quot; The earth trembled, and the rocks parted - one of sound. I sprang forward; I seized a hand of the locked in each other's arms, I was free, but still upon the verge of the pit. puts the point of earnestness in its An arrow, if it be drawn up but a little way, dies swiftly and pierces deep. Thus prayer, if falls at our feet. It is the strength of it to heaven, and makes it pierce the clouds. they are; nor the rhetoric of our prayers, how how long they be; nor the music of our prayers, prayers, how argumentative they may be; nor the nor even the divinity of our prayers, how good He looks not for the horny knees which James is We might be like Bartholomew, who is said to have for the evening, and all might be of no avail. Warm Prayer &quot;It is not the gilded paper and good writing but the moving sense of it. And to that King who all, and that which he only regards. He listens where that is silent. All other excellence in This is the life of it.&quot; As a painted fire is no fire, a dead man no man, there is no heat, in a dead man there is no life; no devotion, no blessing. Cold prayers are as as birds without wings; they pierce not, Cold prayers do always freeze Oh that Christians would chide themselves out a better and warmer frame of spirit, when Consider the case of the Syrophenician woman When she called to the Master, it seemed The disciples wanted her to be sent away. years and sat at his feet, they still did Think of Christ sending away a poor Can you comprehend such a thing? Never once did it her child. &quot;Lord, help me!&quot; she said. I think when have our friends blessed - when we put ourselves Lord, Help Me I asked all those who wished to be prayed for to Among those who came was a woman. I thought but she knelt down with the others. She said she had been one for so many years. those only who wanted to become Christians.&quot; she replied, &quot;I have a son who has gone far and see if God would not bless him.&quot; The Syrophenician woman did the same thing in It was a short prayer, but it went right to the however. He said, It is not good to take the She replied, Yes, Lord; but even the dogs feed on He said, O woman, your faith is great. story will never be forgotten as long as the and gave her all she asked for. We all need help. As Christians, don't we need righteousness? Then let's make this prayer today. live better, to be more like the Son link us right to the throne of God, and the The one thing I know is, that woman was a It may be that up to this hour but if you will cry, &quot;Lord help me!&quot; he will Pray Earnestly we do not really mean anything. You mothers When they ask you for something, you can soon tell you do not pay any attention to it, but if it The cry of distress always brings relief. Your child is playing around, I want some bread,&quot; but then goes on playing. so you let it alone. But, by and by, the child &quot;Mamma, I am so hungry!&quot; Then you you soon go to the pantry and get some bread. we will get it. This woman was terribly I remember hearing of a boy He had never learned to read or write, except One day a man of God came there and told in their trouble, he would send them help. farmer. One day he was sent out into He was having rather a hard time, so he he thought he would pray to God about it. Someone They looked to see whose it was, and saw &quot;A, B, C, D,&quot; and so on. He looked up and said he was praying. it is only saying the alphabet.&quot; but that a man once came to the poorhouse, who help them. So he thought that if he named over the put them together into a prayer, and give him what Sometimes, when your child talks, your but the mother understands very well. So, if our our language. It is a delusion of the Devil to anything. It is not the most beautiful or the most it is the cry that goes up from a burdened heart. help me!&quot; the cry flashed over the So you can pray if you will; it is the desire, and to answer. When we pray sincerely, then we must expect to who was highly regarded by him, was sick he sent some Jewish elders asking Him to come wanted Christ to heal his servant, but he thought so he sent his friends to make the petition. and when He was not far from the house, the do not trouble Yourself further, for I am for this reason I did not even consider myself and my servant will be healed. For I also am a man and I say to this one, Go! and he goes, and to Do this! and he does it. (Luke 7: 6-8) I say to you, not even in Israel have I found such this centurion; it pleased him, so he healed the In John we read of a nobleman whose his knees before the Master and said, Sir, Here you have both earnestness and faith, The nobleman's son began to get better that In his case, there was nothing to rest upon but is well to bear always in mind that the object not the instrument, but the hand that wields it. &quot;The object in believing is God, and to found our faith upon. We cannot believe in be satisfied by God and by him that is God must by working faith in the heart, and for raising it about faith is supernatural. The things we believe &quot;the worker of it, the Holy Ghost, is above God is the one in whom we believe and through Christ is God, not only by the things he has done, but we also know he is God by what is done to which show that he is God; that is, faith and only to God. But Christ is the object of both and of prayer, as in the prayer of Saint Stephen: said Sibbes, we also see &quot;therefore, his God; peculiar only to God...What a strong foundation, God the Father, Son and Holy Ghost, and Christ the him to believe on who supports heaven and earth.&quot; passages from Scripture. One God, after He spoke long ago to the fathers in these last days has spoken to us in His Son, whom He made the world. And He is the radiance of His and upholds all things by the word of His power. at the right hand of the Majesty on high (Hebrews For by Him all things were created, both in the whether thrones or dominions or rulers or Him and for Him. He is before all things, and in In his exposition on the book of Hebrews, lie in the way of the accomplishment of any of Samuel Rutherford commented on the whom we have been discussing in this chapter. &quot;See faith traffics with Christ and heaven in the seeing any surety of dawn: Blessed are they who Why are they blessed? Rutherford said it &quot;is courage; so as to keep a barred city against and here is a weak woman, though not as against him who is 'the Mighty God, the Father Faith only stands out, and overcomes the is our victory, whereby one man overcomes Whatever You Ask has described Christ's intercession as the ground &quot;The bank note without a signature at the bottom The stroke of a pen confers on it all its is a feeble thing in itself, but once endorsed There was an officer in the city of Rome who in order to receive any Roman citizen who the ear of the Lord Jesus is always open It is his role to help them. Reader, think of this. Isn't this encouragement? of our Lord's own words concerning Scripture: Seeing a lone fig tree by the road, leaves only; and He said to it, No longer And at once the fig tree withered. Seeing How did the fig tree wither all at once? And Jesus if you have faith and do not doubt, you will not if you say to this mountain, Be taken up and cast Truly, truly, I say to you, he who believes and greater works than these he will do; because that will I do, so that the Father may be in My name, I will do it. (John 14:12-14) ask whatever you wish, and it Truly, truly, I say to you, if you ask He will give it to you. Until now you ask and you will receive, so that your To See His Face To bow before a throne of grace; And gain new strength to run our race; To gird our heavenly armor on, And sweet the whisper of his love, That bids our guilty fears remove, Oh, then 'tis sweet indeed to know But oh, to see our Savior's face! To dwell in his divine embrace - The fairest form of earthly bliss Chapter 9 The next element in prayer How often we go to prayer meetings without really world, without anything definite being asked for. greatly surprised if God did answer their prayers. leading a meeting in prayer. There wasn't a A poor, earnest woman shouted out, Ask, Seek, Knock How often we hear something that is called and it will be given to you (Matthew 7:7). out of the way, God will answer our petitions. with pure hands, as he has commanded us to In Luke's gospel, Jesus gave a grand (also called the Lord's Prayer). Scripture: So seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be does not like to be troubled with our constant is not to come at all. He encourages us to I believe you will find three kinds The first are those who ask; the second are &quot;Teacher,&quot; said a bright, earnest-faced boy, I do not understand. The Bible says, 'Ask, and and it shall be opened unto you;' but it seems &quot;Did you never sit by your cheerful parlor and hear a loud knocking at the door? Going to out into the darkness, seeing nothing, but hearing who knocked but did not wish to enter, and us. We ask for blessings, but do not really expect that Jesus will not hear us, will not fulfill his &quot;Ah, I see,&quot; said the earnest-faced boy, his eyes &quot;Jesus cannot be expected He has never promised it. I mean to keep knocking, Waiting for an Answer and then run away, instead and an answer. Thus we act as if we were So many people pray in that way; they do not that we are not only to ask, but we are also we must seek to find out the reason. I believe we do not get because there may be something When Daniel began to pray in Babylon he sought to find out what the trouble was, In the same way, there may be something in if there is, we want to find it out. &quot;We are to ask with a beggar's humility, and to knock with the confidence of a friend.&quot; they do not know whether or not God does answer Christ teaches us how we are not only Scripture: Now He was telling them a parable and not to lose heart, saying, In a certain and did not respect man. There was a widow in Give me legal protection from my opponent. said to himself, Even though I do not fear God nor I will give her legal protection, otherwise And the Lord said, Hear what Now, will not God bring about justice for and will He delay long over them? I tell you quickly. However, when the Son of Man comes, If the unjust judge heard the petition how much more will our Asking Boldly the state of New Jersey was condemned to be hung. the governor to have the man reprieved, but he One morning, the wife of the condemned man her ten children. When he came to his office, and besought him to have mercy The governor's heart was moved, and The persistence of the wife and children saved the who, pressing her claims, persuaded It was this that brought the answer The people, and even the disciples, tried out louder, Son of David, have mercy on me. here. So they called the blind man, saying to him, Throwing aside his cloak, he And answering him, Jesus said, What do you said to Him, Rabboni, I want to regain my sight. you well. Immediately he regained his sight and Prayer is hardly ever mentioned alone in the and watchfulness, prayer and thanksgiving. It is is always linked with something else. Bartimaeus Then the highest type of Christian is the one who until the answer comes. If we knock, God has It may be years before the answer but he has promised that the answer will come. Prayer Is Power A number of years ago, when we were having point where there seemed to be very little asked them to meet and pray for their children. pour out their hearts to God in prayer. for my two boys. They have gone off on a drunken She was a widowed mother. A few &quot;Let's have a prayer meeting for these boys.&quot; and now see how God answered their prayer. meet at the corner of the street where our spend the night in sensual pleasures and sin. appointed place; he saw the people going into the would go in for a little while. The Word of God where he gave his heart to the Savior. meeting broke up, expecting his brother to come. There was a young men's meeting in the church to see what was going on, so he followed the with what he heard and was the first one to go While this was happening, the first one with the good news. He found her on her knees. she was doing so, her boy came in and told his soul was saved. It was not long told his story - how he too had been blessed. up at the young converts' meeting was one of these As soon as he had taken his seat, another has told you is true, for I am his brother. I heard of a wife in England who had an would pray every day for twelve months for she went to her room alone and cried to God. Her subject, but she could speak to God on his behalf. to be spoken with about his salvation; you can do The twelve months passed by, and there was no six months longer, so every day she went alone The six months passed, and still there was no could she give him up? pray for him as long as God gives me breath.&quot; instead of going into the dining room he went he did not come down to dinner. Finally, she went to God to have mercy upon him. God convicted him the Word of God had a free flow in him and was God answering the prayers of this Christian wife. I heard something the other day that cheered about forty years, but there was no sign going down to his grave as one of the most Conviction came in one night. family, and said to his daughter, &quot;I want you to My whole life has been nothing but sin - sin.&quot; We want to press our case right up to the throne to our meetings, and although they could not hear unseen power laid hold of them, so that they Prayer Always Hopes were holding meetings, a wife came to the first &quot;He is not interested,&quot; she said, I talked with him, and I think I hardly ever It looked as though I might as he seemed to be so encased in self-righteousness. She said, &quot;I told you that, All the thirty days we were there, that wife never faith for him than I had. I had spoken to him Two nights before the final meeting &quot;Would you see me in another room?&quot; him what was the trouble. sinner in the state of Vermont.&quot; any particular sin you have been guilty of?&quot; awful crime that he was covering up, &quot;My whole life,&quot; he said, &quot;has been nothing but Lord to have mercy on him, and he went home This was a man convicted and So if you are anxious about the conversion of some you will give God no rest, day or night, until he they are - at their places of business, in their Dr. Austin Phelps, in his The prospect of gaining an object will always The feeling which will become spontaneous a trust is this: I come to my devotions This is no romance, and no farce. I do not I have no hopeless desires to express. I have an is a business in which I am about to engage. the skies with a more reasonable hope than I have of reaching the mind of God by This is the privilege of my Even my faltering voice is now to be heard in the results of which only God can know, O Lord, thy servant finds it in his Jeremy Taylor said, &quot;Easiness of desire is a It must be an intent, zealous, busy, operative that a man should speak to God for a thing spirits when we beg tamely for those things for than imperial scepters, richer than the spoils Dr. Patton, in his book Remarkable Jesus bids us seek. Imagine a mother seeking and along the streets, then searches the A wise neighbor meets her and says: &quot;Seek on, You will not find, indeed; but then seeking is it fixes the attention; it aids observation; it after a while, you will cease to want your child.&quot; Imagine a man knocking at the door of a house, a window opens, and the occupant of the house puts I shall not open the door, but keep on knocking. healthier for it. Knock away till sundown, After some days thus spent, you in which you will no longer care to come in.&quot; when he said: &quot;Ask, and ye shall knock, and it shall be opened unto you&quot;? to seek, and to knock; but Persevering Prayer our Father in heaven than direct, unrelenting, whose husbands were unconverted, feeling their united prayer for their salvation. They continued they should pray longer, because their prayers until death, and, if their husbands went to In renewed strength, they prayed three in the night by her husband, who was in great she hastened with joy to tell her praying prayers. She was surprised to meet her friend of united and persevering prayer was crowned with We cannot be too frequent in our requests; Sir Walter Raleigh asked a favor of &quot;Raleigh, when will you leave off begging?&quot; We must continue praying this long. in Calcutta, said that in 1844, five and he began to pray for them. Eighteen months He prayed on for five years more, and another half years, a third was converted. praying for the other two without missing but they were not yet converted. He felt and he was sure of receiving an answer in relation Submission To murmur 'neath Thy Hand, oh, teach me now And this rebellious will in faith to bow. Where earthly idols held Thy place alone, And teach me, Lord, to say, 'Thy will be done! A youth of sorrow, and a life of sin. One hope of pardon for the past to win? Still dare I lift to Thee my tearful eyes, I plead the promise of Thy word, that Thou What shall I bring? A bruised spirit, Lord, And yearning for Thy peace, as some poor bird, My sacrifice, the Lamb who died for me; I bring Thy promises; I trust in Thee; Chapter 10 Another essential element in prayer is full submission to God. After we have made our &quot;Thy will be done.&quot; A thousand times over, I I cannot see into the future as God can; let him choose for me than for me to choose for His will is that I should be sanctified, so and I can expect an answer to my prayers. But when what I ask for may not be God's purpose concerning prayer does not mean that I am to bring and bend his government according to my foolish, silly, and sometimes sinful notions. Prayer in union and design with him; that I am to enter Thy Will Be Done in an altogether opposite way, as if by praying we whatever comes into our own minds, and whatever purposes. I am quite convinced that God knows more I can possibly know, and even though it were rather say to him, &quot;Thy will be done.&quot; that she was asked whether she was willing to live &quot;But,&quot; said someone, &quot;if God should refer &quot;Truly,&quot; she replied, &quot;I Thus, that person whose will is subjected to Mr. Charles Spurgeon remarked on this subject. that he may keep up his fellowship with but a dialogue; not an introspection, but a Spurgeon acknowledged that we do find relief in and it can even be of benefit to our faith. But &quot;When an obedient activity has gone to the full not reached, then the hand of God is trusted in to go with us.&quot; Prayer is more than unburdening our &quot;Faith has no desire to have its own will, mind of God,&quot; Spurgeon said. &quot;For such a desire which did not rely upon God's judgment as is the highest good, and that anything which is According to history, the Tusculani - a people whose power was infinitely superior to theirs. was on his march to subdue them. Conscious of they took the following method to appease opened their gates, and every man went about his knew it was useless to resist. was struck with the wisdom and candor of their &quot;You only, of all people, have found out and your submission has proved your best find in our heart to injure you than upon other The chief magistrate replied, &quot;We have so that in confidence of that satisfaction acknowledge our fault.&quot; In view of the difficulty of bringing our hearts we may well adopt Fenelon's prayer, &quot;O and when Thou hast it, keep it for I cannot keep Some of the best men the world has ever seen could pray for Israel and could prevail with God, He asked God to take him over the Jordan, forty years of wandering in the wilderness, but the Lord did not grant his desire. By no means. He was a man greatly beloved of this prayer of his. Your child says, &quot;I want because you know that it will be the ruin of Moses wished to enter the Promised Land, but had something else in store for him. As someone him home to himself.&quot; God buried him - perhaps And then fifteen hundred years later, God answered the Promised Land, and to get a glimpse of the with Elijah, the great prophet, and with voice come from the throne of God, then a voice My Chosen One; listen to Him (Luke 9:35). That as Joshua did, and to sojourn for thirty years earthly things are not answered, let's submit to When someone asked a deaf and mute boy why he taking the chalk he wrote upon the board, &quot;Even John Brown, of Haddington, once said, &quot;No but yet so kind has God been to me, that I as I have lived in the world, I would not changed - except that I wish there &quot;It might be written on my coffin, 'Here who early lost both father and mother, and God Answers in Love fire down from heaven on his sacrifice, and He stood fearlessly before King Ahab in the power tree like a coward, asking God to let him die. into the wilderness, and came and sat down under he might die, and said, It is enough; now, O my fathers (1 Kings 19:4). The Lord loved him him up to heaven in a chariot of fire. Devil to take advantage of us, and make he does not grant all our petitions in As Moses takes up more room in the Old so it is with Paul in the New Testament, Yet Paul did not know how to pray for himself. He flesh&quot; he was given. His request was not granted, He gave him more grace. It may be that we have not God's will to take it away, let's ask him We find that Paul gloried in his setbacks and his God rested upon him. It may be there are some May God give us grace to take Paul's platform for good to those who love God, to those who are So when we pray to God we must be submissive, and read, If you . . . . That if is a mountain to abide in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will often quoted, but not the first. It seems there is visit him once in awhile, but that is all. not ask anything that is against his will. And We must have a warrant for our prayers. If we have to find if it is right to ask it. There are and many other things we desire to A friend of mine was shaving one morning, and his razor, and said he wanted to whittle with it. When if his heart would break. I am afraid that there John Bunyan was arrested for being a nonconformist the Bedford jail more than for anything We never pray for affliction, and yet it When It Is Good to Wait to us when we can bless God for afflictions. one Son without sin, but he never had any without sanctified afflictions are spiritual promotions.&quot; and the wisdom of submitting in them to God's what owe I to the file, to the hammer, who has now let me see how good the wheat of to be made bread for his own table! Grace tried it is glory in its infancy. I now see and this world's passments and their outward performances look appealing, Rutherford said, &quot;Who knows the Oh, how little gets Christ of us, but that which And how soon would faith freeze without a cross! that had never a tongue to speak the sweetness of his own crosses, they &quot;breathe out Christ's &quot;Why should I fear the plow of my Lord?&quot; it makes deep furrows on our souls, but we &quot;know crop. Oh that this white withered lea-ground by whom it is so painfully dressed, and that this a fool for being grieved that God put &quot;his garland his faithful witnesses.&quot; We wear both Christ's &quot;I desire now to make no more pleas with Christ,&quot; loss by what I suffer; he owes me nothing; have the thoughts of him been to me, wherein How blind are my adversaries who sent me to the lovely feasts of my lovely Lord Jesus, As we conclude this subject, let's look at the Scripture: The LORD is good to those who It is good that he waits silently It is good for a man that he Let him sit alone and be silent Let him put his mouth in the Let him give his cheek to the smiter, For the Lord will not reject forever: have compassion according to For He does not afflict willingly To crush under His feet all To deprive a man of justice in To defraud a man in his lawsuit - of Who is there who speaks and it comes to Is it not from the mouth of the Most Why should any living mortal, or any Let us examine and probe our ways, We lift up our heart and hands toward Look Up One faithful voice doth promise sure relief. Tell all to Jesus. He looketh where To listen fondly to the half-formed prayer, Lose not thy privilege, O silent soul; What outcast spurns the hand that gives the dole? to Him thy voice is sweet. Chapter 11 In John, we learn who will have their prayers words abide in you, ask whatever you wish, and it also find something spoken of those whose prayers receive, because you ask with wrong motives, (James 4:3) There are a great many prayers we have not complied with the Word of God It is a good thing our prayers are not Examining Our Motives it may be that we have prayed without the according to the Scriptures. So let's not be our prayers are not answered in the way we want. wanted him to pray for a certain thing. The man to grant him his request, but God had not seen and showed the man the name of a person for whom The prayer, Mr. Muller added, was not him assurance that that person was going to We sometimes find our prayers are at other times the answer is delayed. But how quickly the answer comes! Look at Saul (Paul) Scripture: Now Saul, still breathing threats went to the high priest, and asked for letters if he found any belonging to the Way, both men As he was traveling, it happened and suddenly a light from and he fell to the ground and heard a voice saying And he said, Who are You, Lord? But get up and enter the city, and it will Saul's answer came at once when he asked Note also the publican who went up to the temple he got an immediate answer (Luke 18:10-14). The Jesus, remember me when You come in Your kingdom and there. And He said to him, Truly I say to you, There are many cases of a similar kind in the prayed long and often. The Lord delights known to him - telling our troubles all out We do not know when that is. There was a mother in Connecticut who had a son he left, because he was not a Christian. Day after She learned afterward that he had been but she could not find out anything about how he to see a member of the family on business. There He looked at it and said, The mother said, &quot;That young man was The man replied, &quot;I knew him The mother then asked, &quot;Do you The man said, &quot;I was in the hospital, and he died The mother had given up hope but before she went to heaven she her prayers had prevailed with God. we will find a great many of our prayers that we If it is the true prayer of faith, God will On one occasion at a meeting I attended, a &quot;Do you see that man over there? That is I sat down beside him, when the You have been humbugging these people long enough you get answers to prayer. Try it on me.&quot; said with a good deal of sarcasm, &quot;I am not I said, &quot;But you may be converted yet.&quot; from a friend, stating that the man had been Praying for Christ's Sake Jeremiah prayed, and said, Ah Lord GOD! Behold, great power and by Your outstretched arm! Nothing Nothing is too hard for God; that is a good a time of great blessing in the world, and we falling all around, let's rise up and share in it. and I will tell you great and mighty things, let's call on the Lord, and let's pray that it At a Christian convention a number of years ago, &quot;For Christ's Sake&quot; - and he cast new light upon before. When the war broke out, the gentleman's company of soldiers, his heart went right out city where that gentleman lived, and he gladly Sometime afterward he said to his wife, &quot;I have neglected my business,&quot; and he went down to his not be disturbed by any soldiers that day. soldier entering. He never minded him, but kept on At last the soldier put down an old, soiled The gentleman observed that it and he seized the letter at once and &quot;Dear father, this young man belongs to my country, and he is on his way home to his mother The gentleman at once dropped his work where he was kindly cared for until he Then he took him to the station, and sent him Let our prayers, then, be for Christ's sake. let's pray that it be done for Christ's sake. If If God gave up Christ for the world, is there the murderers and blasphemers, and the rebels of he give to those who go to him for Christ's sake? not for our glory - not for our sake - but for Expecting an Answer we ought to expect an answer. Let's be looking one of our southern cities near the close of the thought something I had said had disturbed him, I found, however, that he could not &quot;My friend,&quot; I said, &quot;What is the trouble?&quot; a letter, all soiled, as if his tears had fallen sister last night. She tells me that every night I think I am the worst man in all the army of the That sister was six hundred miles away, but she her earnest, believing prayer. It was a hard case, godly sister, so that the man was as clay in the kingdom of God - all through his sister's prayers. where I told this story. A young man, a lieutenant &quot;That reminds me of the last letter I got from sun went down she prayed for me. She begged of and yield myself to God. I put the letter in my He went on to say that the next news that He went out into the woods alone and cried As he stood in the meeting with his face shining, answered, and my only regret is that she did not So, though we may not live to if we cry mightily to God, the answer will come. In Scotland a good many years ago, there lived a and a boy. He was in the habit of getting drunk, take Johnnie and go off to America, where he would could begin life over again. He took the little Soon after he arrived in America, He got separated from his boy in the streets, since. The little fellow was placed in in Massachusetts. After he had been there some Finally, he came to Chicago to work on the lakes. and land, and now he was in Chicago. When the to a gospel meeting. The joyful sound of the After he had been a Christian a little while, He wrote to different places in Scotland, One day he read in the Psalms, For the LORD God is No good thing does He withhold from He closed his Bible, got down I have been trying to walk uprightly for months mind to write back to the place in Massachusetts It turned out that a letter from Scotland had been at once to the place in Scotland and found that immediately. I would like you to have seen him and the tears flowed so that he could scarcely mother; she had been so overcome by the tidings The sister said that all the nineteen years day and night that he might be saved, and that and to see him once more. Now, said the sister, but also that he had become a Christian. It came out to Chicago to meet him. how God answers prayer. This mother It must have seemed to her sometimes as though God but she kept praying, and at last the answer came. testimony. The personal account in chapter of our meetings held in London, and I hope it Chapter 12 I want you to understand, my friends, that what Only God could have done it! I had given it up great mercy that I am standing here tonight the uttermost all that come to God through him. of inebriates) touched me very deeply indeed. They which has been made for me. And, from my knowledge I know that in a very great number of Therefore, if what I may tell you encourage any godly father and mother to go on woman who has felt himself or herself beyond I had very good opportunities. My parents train me up in the right path, and for some But I got away from Christ, and turned further It was at a public school where I first learned to but I had an amount of self-respect that until I was about twenty-three. But I went steadily downhill. At Cambridge I until I lost all self-respect, and I strayed further and further from God, until my were not, considered, and told me there was very all sorts of people, but I &quot;hated reproof.&quot; and I sneered at every bit of good advice, or any mother both died without seeing me brought to the and at the very last my mother asked me if I To quiet and soothe her, I said I would. But I did away, that she knew now my real feelings. After deeper and deeper into vice. Drink got a stronger I was never &quot;in the gutter,&quot; in the sense but I was as low in my soul as any man who I went from Cambridge first to a town in the then to London. While I was in the north, misters and an aunt of mine who was still praying for &quot;I have a favor to ask of you.&quot; She had been She said, &quot;It is to go and &quot;Very good,&quot; I said. &quot;It is a bargain. I will me again. You will promise that?&quot; I went, and kept, as I thought, most I waited until the sermon was over, and I Earnest prayer had been offered for me, and there that the sermon should apply to me, and that he We met Mr. Moody in the aisle, and I thought I walked round my aunt, before Mr. Moody I wandered further from God after that, and for between two and three years. I went to At times I tried to pull up. I I promised myself and my friends not to touch and, on one occasion, for six months, but the and swept me further and further from I neglected my business and everything I One of my close friends said to me, &quot;If &quot;How is that?&quot; I asked. for you can't drink so much as you used to.&quot; I got to such a state that I did not The recital of these things pains me, and as anything but shame. I am telling you these things Christ saved even me, he is able also to save you. I lost all control over myself. I had been and in the evening I returned to my lodgings. and then go out again as usual. Before going &quot;How will all this end?&quot; &quot;what is the use of that? I know how it will I felt I was killing myself - my body, and I knew I thought it impossible for me to be saved. &quot;Is there any way of escape?&quot; of resolutions. I have done all I could to keep Just at that moment the words came into my remembered since I was a boy. With people this is (Matthew 19:26). And then I saw, in a flash, that of times before, to be an impossibility, was the if I would go to him. All the difficulties came up sorts, and my temptations, but I just looked I went down on my knees there and then, in my As soon as I prayed to him, with very stammering years - I thought, &quot;Now then, God will help It was nine days before I knew how, and before I I got up, there and then, with I took it to be the truth, and I ultimately I thought the best thing I could do would be to and tell me how to be saved, for I was a perfect I went out and hunted about London, and it shows of worship, that I could not find a Wesleyan and I thought I would find a place belonging I searched an hour and a half, and that night body and soul any man can think of or conceive. thought to myself, &quot;I will not go to bed till I am had my usual amount of food in the evening, and go to bed (although I dared not), or I should I knew how I expected to be in the morning. I I expected I would wake up moderately fresh, But again I thought, &quot;God can do the impossible. prayed to the Lord to let me wake up in much the feeling the weight of my sins and The first thing in the morning, as soon &quot;Has the conviction left me?&quot; No. I was more though it was natural - I got up, and thanked the Have you ever felt like that? Perhaps after some or reading the Word of God, you have gone to I went on for eight or nine days seeking the Lord. On Saturday morning, I had to go and tell the tears running down my cheeks. A man Anyway, I told them I wanted to become, and meant that promise: &quot;With God all things are possible.&quot; Another fellow, with whom I played billiards, My words were received in a different But the very man who had told me spent an hour and a half trying to get me and was out of sorts; and that a glass He tried to get me to drink, and I &quot;You remember what you said to me; I am trying to When I think of that, I am reminded of the the wicked are cruel (Proverbs 12:10 KJV). thread became a cable by which my soul could he was my Savior. Truly He is able also to save (Hebrews 7:25). you that I went down before God in my misery, my it was impossible that I should be saved - that But from that night to this moment, I have It was a hard struggle indeed to give up smoking. come to grief if I had to fight single-handedly and he took that desire, too, clean away. From drink and made me hate it most bitterly. I simply but it is the Lord Jesus who is able also to save If there is anyone hearing me who has given up for He will save His people from their sins I have found him to be my Savior. God forbid that It is to my shame that I speak thus of myself, but Christian friends, continue to pray. You may My parents did, and my sisters prayed I can help others on their way to Zion. Remember, with God all things are possible. I can do all things through Him who Dwight L. Moody Dwight Lyman Moody was born on February His father died when Dwight was only four years for. When Dwight was seventeen years old, A year later, he was led to Jesus Christ teacher. Moody soon left for Chicago and began By the time he was twenty-three, he had become only eight months, which was a lot of money Having decided to follow Jesus, in Christian work for only $300 a year. but was an effective evangelist. He was once &quot;Moody, the world has yet to see what God Moody later said, &quot;By God's It is estimated that during his lifetime, without more than one million miles, preached to more than seven hundred and fifty thousand individuals. Moody once said, &quot;Some day you will read in the is dead. Don't you believe a word of it! At I shall have gone up higher, that is all - out immortal; a body that death cannot touch, that His glorious body. I was born of the flesh That which is born of the flesh may die. That Thank you for listening to Narrated by Lyle Blaker All rights reserved.