Good enough is great. Perhaps not a concept you'd expect to notion of good enough is great underlies The concept of minimally is critical for In this approach, you strive to get your that you can test and get feedback Let me give you an example. Imagine you're a baker, and you want to bring your baked You have visions of crafting wonderful Minimally viable product design, starting with elaborate cakes, Cupcakes provide good value They're relatively easy to make. And they allow you to solicit feedback to develop your products and This notion of minimally critical to your success in It comes down to five key steps, the problem space or the metrics you'll use to assess you create designs, really quick product and then you test and you iterate. Fundamentally, the concepts involved understanding the needs and The key idea here in our talk that the ideas in minimally viable product So I'd like to welcome you to a talk when good enough is great. My name is Matt Abrahams. I've been here at the Stanford over a decade, And I am thrilled to share with you minimally viable product design Much like there were five we have five steps in the MVC process. It starts by looking at your audience, what they need from your messaging. You have to appreciate the context create a goal that is very specific for design out your communication, and So let's get started and It all begins with your audience. Who are you speaking to? And more importantly, Many of us when we communicate, And we start from a position rather than what does my Now this sounds like verbal jujitsu it is a fundamental We need to understand our audience and So there's several you to think about when you have First and foremost, Do they know a lot? Or do they know a little? We have all been victimized by too low level for us. Second, you need to think to the topic that you're discussing. Are they in favor? Perhaps they're not in favor Or maybe they're agnostic. They just don't know enough. You also have to think What are the things that might Is it what you're proposing costs requires too much effort? We have to think about knowledge, And from my colleagues here we add psychological distance. How far are you away from your audience? Not physical distance, but are you much more senior or That matters in terms of what you say and According to research from Near Halevy, research from Zack Tortola tells us we importance of what we're saying so that we So thinking through our audience is communication process. And this can go badly, in fact, There is a durable goods company in And many years ago, nothing sucks like an Electrolux. This ad was an abysmal failure, why? We don't like to buy things that suck. You can imagine some advertising person We're going to suggest that our powerful that it caused But they didn't understand their nothing sucks like an Electrolux. So we have to take the time as part of our audience at many levels Now let me share an example of where very helpful. And I borrowed this story from where I Dan and Chip Heath, and Chip Heath And in this inmate distinct, In Texas in the mid 1980s, trash and rubbish all over the place. It didn't look good, So the government invested in a public And I know many of you listening you might remember Woodsy the Owl, And Woodsy was placed on billboards, Remember this was the 80s, When I share this story they physically get disturbed Something interesting happened though, being on television, radio, and It was as if Texans were saying, they were throwing more This caused great concern. So the government invested in help with the littering problem. And the very first thing Was try to figure out who Now, for some of you, It turns out that most of the littering Not just any men but And they went further beyond learning they looked into some of the attitudes and And for any of you who have been you know one thing is true about They are very proud of being from Texas. If they could, Based on knowing who was some of the attitudes, If you've been to Texas, you've seen it. It's still around today, 30 years later. Don't Mess With Texas. It's a play on words, don't mess, but also don't mess, I take great pride. Within two years of this they were able to reduce littering If you know anything about an effect size that large is unheard of. By getting the right message to you can have a huge effect. The take home message here is it is the first step in the minimally But it's not enough just to you also have to think about the context Whenever you communicate, there's Cultural elements, channel elements But I want to highlight bringing communication to your audience. The first has to do with the time Right now it's my morning. For some of you, it's your early afternoon That impacts what you bring to your willingness to collaborate, Research by GSB Professor Baba Shiv neuro-chemical profile, In fact his research suggests, collaborative work, it's best to do are more open to collaboration based Now that doesn't mean the only time What it means though is if you're you might have to do trust building activities first to get Time of day matters when it Another timing variable involved We often prepare our communication as Yet we all live lives where we realize different communication messages. Think about the sequence where are you in the interaction Think of it this way, if you're proposing from your organization and following somebody who delivered bad news, might that influence It could, Similarly, what could you do to set follow you in your communication? So context is equally I recently heard this quote that I love thinking about your audience and Writing a high stakes communication is like writing a love letter and You would never do that. Nor should you draft high stakes audience. Into that idea I add, without thinking that love letter, putting it in a bottle, it lands in the right place, So the question becomes why, and what's next in the minimally Once we think about audience and context, All high stakes communication to my mind a goal has It's about information, In other words, How do you want them to feel, Know, feel, do. Your goal is predicated on what you know So if the audience changes or you might need to change your goal. For this presentation I'm giving I'd like for viable product design processes Further, I'd like you to best practices in the minimally I want you to feel confident in your ultimately to put them into practice audiences. Know, feel, do. Take the time to figure out because this goal will come Not only does it direct what it also helps us assess our success. It is critically important that the success of your When I travel all over the world teaching how do you know if your And the number one answer I get is, as if survival is the key Of course, I think that's ridiculous. You should be able to measure your communication, So a goal not only helps you figure out it also helps you assess your success. Now once you have a goal in mind, before we can create our structure, think about what are the key themes and And this is where lessons design school, can really come in handy. There are myriad ways to get ideas that will feed into your messages. Let me share a few that I like to use communication. First and foremost there's old fashioned When you just generate ideas without it's a good idea to give Research suggests time constraints But other techniques work well too. One I'll often employ is to put I'll ask myself how would a seven Kids are wonderfully creative, put and ask yourself how you would challenge with the goal you have and Another way I like to brainstorm or So rather than listing things out which ideas and results. Rather get graphic, see if that can help you And perhaps my most favorite way of from a colleague at the D school. And that is using analogies, think about situations that are similar And what could you learn by exploring Let me give you two examples of creativity through analogy. There was a hospital chain in improving their emergency room results. And rather than going around checking their best practices, They actually went to a Formula One a pit crew did to quickly get And if you think about it, what happens in the Is really similar. You've got time critical, sensitive, urgent issues that have to be fixed and And they learn many things by looking For example, different situations they So let's say a tire blows out, they have dealing with that one issue. The hospitals in their ER's took the different types of Another example is Apple, they created the genius bars essentially Rather than or in addition to looking They actually went and explored how high By using analogies, new ideas and And this ideation can then help you So once you have your goal, which is you have to spend some time brainstorming. And coming up with the information that achieve your goal. Once you have those ideas in mind, bring them into clear focus. And I love the tool of 6 word stories Take all of the themes and the ideation phase and And that 6 word narrative the message design that you will create, For this talk today, quick iterative feedback. That was the narrative I used to help What's your 6 word story for The next step in the minimally once we've ideated and we've focused, Structure is absolutely critical for we have all been victimized by I hope that's not happening right now, it makes it really challenging for We have to bring a lot of energy to focus So what is it that we can do to And that thing is to make sure I learnt this a long time ago. As an undergrad at Stanford, one of the number one things on the Stanford campus is You are a bad tour guide how do good tour guides They set their expectations and structure sets your expectation. Would any of you go on a tour with me I'm your tour guide, let's go? Some of you would because you're heck no, where are we going? Why are we going there? Do I have the right shoes on? So by setting your expectations up front, you can relax and enjoy. The other value that structure brings, to remember the information Neuroscientists tell us that structured fluently and efficiently. Think about this, how many of you can remember phone Most of us can, now my kids today, They just look at a picture and somebody else starts talking. But in our day, we had to remember phone our phone numbers are 10 digits long. It's hard to remember 10 digits, asked you to remember them for an hour. Or a day, or a year or a decade or that would be hard, so how do we do it? We leverage structure, here in the United States, The three digit prefix and the four digit So structure is something that can be So, allow me to introduce you when it comes to minimally I believe this structure is perhaps this structure is, the what?, Structure, let me explain it and then let In this structure you start by talking your message, your idea ,your product ,your service, The so what is why is it important or relevant to the audience It could be to the audience directly, it could be to society, And then finally, now what? What comes next? It has momentum built in, maybe the next To take a taste of something, to set up Is a powerful way of It's easier to remember, you get a structure. Second, it has that relevance built in and if something is relevant people And they're more likely to remember and it has that momentum, that now what step. Helping you understand what So, as you are quickly crafting your iterate, what?, so what?, I'd like to take a meta moment here, In my MBA classes, we do a lot It allows us to better I just want to point out that I just Using what, so what, now what, it's a In fact, everything I've shared today I tell you what it is, share with you how you can best use it. So I encourage you to, once you've in focusing your message to think about achieve that six word story over The final phase in our process is to search for feedback. The whole goal of minimally viable viable product design is to iterate, that you can hone your messages. Here you see on the screen, something I remember from a kid as part We had to build contraptions that would to the ground without cracking. And we tested a lot of different ideas. The winning idea was a parachute strapped we have to test, we have to iterate, that feedback, go through this process honed in such a way that it can provide The minimally viable communication if not most, communication situations. It starts by understanding your audience, their resistance points, them, and the relevance and We have to think about the context, which time of day in sequence. You have to spend time understanding And that goal allows you not only to it also allows you to assess your success And then we have to take before we can structure we Taken together, communication design can help your audiences very quickly to If you'd like to learn more about other aspects of communication, I've written a book called speaking up feel more comfortable and I curate a website called where my research and that of others And one of the greatest pleasures of the business school called Think Fast, we use minimally viable communication to tools, and ideas to you from Stanford I invite all of you to continue to develop And remember, good enough is great. And with that, I'd now like to take some ideas around how to become I'll agree on do we have some &gt;&gt; We do. When it comes to leadership, a lot of leaders think that they have explained not received enough communication. So how is that affected by a leader &gt;&gt; Yeah, I appreciate the insight minimally viable doesn't Minimally viable simply means that understand what's needed for So I actually think minimally viable the questioner is asking. Because as a leader, if I have important iterate and test my messaging with some of am I saying enough? Am I saying too much? Is there more I need to bring? And that will help me hone my message for In other words, I make those cupcakes and I bring those cupcakes to I get their taste test and information and then I prepare myself to bring the big So I actually think minimally viable the problem that &gt;&gt; Our next question is, isn't the TED Talk mentality &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] rehearsed to the point of perfection. &gt;&gt; Great, I love the challenge So when it comes to communication, I separate communication into One is the planned communication. And that's this TED Talk-like you practice, you really try And then there is the more the communication that happens And this approach, this mental approach out in both sections, in both approaches in the plan presenting you're practicing, feedback and you're leveraging a lot of In a spontaneous speaking situation, you can still leverage Immediately think about your audience and Consider the context you're speaking in. What is my goal in this moment? And then structure messages to answer it. So the same process can When the question I just answered came in, who am I talking to? I'm talking to a bunch of alumnus I thought about this context the situation where you're hoping to And I immediately thought of my goal. What do I want you to know, feel and to your question and So, in other words, I applied these into how I handled the spontaneous So the answer boils down to there communication, spontaneous and plain. And what we talked about applies to both. Now I heard some value judgment isn't that TED Talkie overly rehearsed, Something that is not to be desired in Well, I think at the extremes the notion of being planned, prepared, both planned and spontaneous speaking. Think this might be related you may have already answered it. But, how does the ideation, practice practice, effect authenticity? &gt;&gt; Yeah, so authenticity is critical. So when it comes to your presence. It's really about confidence, And you want to walk that but not being over prepared. And that's why in the work I do here the strategic communication classes, It's all about teaching And giving students opportunities to So that you can then So you can develop your own style. I like to use the analogy from sports. All of us at some point in our life implement. A bat, a club, a racket and we learn some foundational principles But if I were to look at any of you you wouldn't look slightly different than based on your experience, It is finding the foundational That leads to your authenticity. So these foundational principles that goal, ideation, focus, those foundational principles Take from different areas and different that will allow you to be more So I certainly don't want everybody messages the same way. But I do think there is value by going come up with those messages. I think that only bolsters your away from it. &gt;&gt; Great, thank you. We have a question here asking How does one then do &gt;&gt; Thank you so this is only figure out what to say you must And you have to focus on the channel So we have to think first What's the best way to get Is it a multi-channel approach? Is it an individual conversation or So the next step is to think about And again, you can iterate and And then you also have to focus on your deliver the message you can have But if it's delivered poorly that can get for a couple minutes because I have First, you have to make sure you And some of the resources I pointed to at that way. There are many tools that you can use to your communication and I encourage In all the strategic communication classes we start with confidence building. Once you have a foundational layer of you're doing, you then have to think And I'd like to give you three bits of First is what you do with your body. There are three key You want to be big, you want to be Nervous people make themselves small, they retreat in person I step back, I sit far away so We want to be big and present. A great way to help yourself be big is your scapula, bones and your back Pull them down when I pull them Now I'm not bringing my elbows back and just pulling those shoulder blades down It also tightens up my head is straight many of us tilt you're in one on one interaction listening But when you're trying to command message, you want your head And this body posturing will help and can be very distracting, so big, balanced The second thing to think about culture where I am today eye contact look us in the eye when I'm in Instead of trying to look at every person I'll look in the back part of the room or When I'm virtual, I train myself to Because as I look at the camera, rather than looking down at all of your thank you to those of So, we want to make eye contact. And then finally, we have to think about our voice. Your voice is a wind instrument just the more air you put through it, We need to vary our voice. Our brains are wired to habituate. Anything that stays the same. We stopped paying attention to it. So you need to vary your voice to Now for some of us, that's hard. We speak in a more monotone, mano rate more variation in your voice is to insert If you need some help come back to Some of you have seen it on the campus, insert some of those adverbs I would never come to you and say, No I would say I'm really excited to invoke that variation in my voice. So to answer the question what comes you have your message crafted in and You then have to think about that message out. And then how do you deliver it in terms of still make eye contact if you're in North That was a long winded answer, but comes next after this process &gt;&gt; Perfect, yes and actually, you answered some tips when it came to So I think that I add a couple more though &gt;&gt; Absolutely. &gt;&gt; Let me share a couple other tips about This is something that we have And interestingly, some new exciting A couple things, one, you want to make Many of us as I alluded to earlier, We are wired to pay We read a lot of information And if we can't see somebody's face, So fill your screen with half your body, Second make sure that you are well lit. Again, if we want to see people's faces, Many people, Look like they are in the virtual presenting. They're in the dark, they're in it doesn't have to cost a lot of money. I mean, you can tell, if you talk to ring lights, they'll wax poetic and they'll tell you how you can get But you can actually just run down to a the kind of lights a mechanic would clip that will work just as well. Another thing is raise your camera up so Many of you when we do virtual the laptop typically sits lower than we Nobody looks good from this angle, if we wanted to scare people at night we chin to look scary, Get a book, a box, a stand, it's eye level with you, and then the last Zoom, Meet, WebEx, et cetera, Teams. They have recording capabilities. Record yourself practicing and watch it. It is incredibly painful We make all of our MBA students do it they have to record and the single best teacher to see So, make sure you can be seen, raise record yourself, that's going to help &gt;&gt; So next question is, TikTok changed your concepts? Do you expect more changes &gt;&gt; Wow, different modalities of communication strategic communication within And the one how ubiquitous they are. But also how quickly you can put messages minimally viable communication approach. There will be times where you just you can use these social media tools as the endpoint of the process as well. We spend a lot of time in our strategic the appropriate channel for And often, these different types of tools slack et cetera, So we have to think about, what does the channel bring to If you're on Twitter, How many words you can use, It does the message, make better sense to for example, so it requires you to bring What I foresee coming forward more and us to communicate in, I don't know how a clubhouse or other things where it's We're going to see more and more other tools and make sure that our messaging is specific Again, the context piece in that process communication is really about considering So I'm excited by it. I think it's fascinating. I love teaching folks who I learn a lot about different And we all have to embrace Clearly, there are liabilities involved, involved, you need only look at the news they are channels for getting our in some cases exploit them. &gt;&gt; You may have already answered iteration, watching your recordings &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] how do you train students to &gt;&gt; Mm-hm, yeah. So confidence is something I've It's research I did all the way It is critical to focus on confidence. Confidence is the biggest barrier to voices and I firmly believe we need to in our dialogue to understand and So to my mind, confidence is really One is the symptoms that happen to us get nervous in our communication, and then And I invite you to check out the website no freaking speaking thoughts of others on this, but One in each camp. The symptoms, and When it comes to symptoms, flight response to our communication. I believe and others who study this that we get nervous, our bodies experience and respond in kind and In this session or in other ways to go it as a threat, but as a result flight, our heart rate elevates, A lot of adrenaline is pumped which causes The single best thing you can do to response invoked through your anxiety Deep belly breaths can calm down and Now, I recently learned and this is, I love doing the thing fast talk smart I had a cognitive neuroscientist His name is Andrew Huberman, super bright his work, he was a guest on the podcast how to reduce stress. And I said, well, Is that true? it's not the inhale. And that rocked my world for I've been telling people take a deep, It's not the inhale that helps you relax, So, the rule of thumb, or to use deep breath to calm yourself down. You want your exhale to be And again, you can just listen to the podcast, But if you take a slow three make sure that your exhale is six count three times to actually To manage symptoms, probably the best the exhalation, from a symptoms point the things that actually make us nervous, Some of you might have heard me deliver a ago now called Think Fast Talk Smart. The name of the podcast where I talk about one source of anxiety us are made nervous by the goals Whenever you communicate, you have a goal. In fact, I encourage you to create a goal. And many of us can be made nervous by So we begin to get nervous about I'm not going to get the good grade. I'm not going to get the funding. I'm not going to get the support. We're worried about not That's the source of the anxiety, a way to of that negative potential future And in that video, I talk a lot about what For example, do something physical, take a or a playlist, or the one that I like to the number 100 and count backwards by All of those activities bring which distract you from worrying So, how do you get more confident? You tackle both your symptoms and And there's a lot more But those are examples, I give you one breathing and how to manage a source Long-winded answer, but &gt;&gt; If you're doing a presentation for of expectations for the format or a start-up team is pitching a potential &gt;&gt; Yeah, so there are often situations the structure of the communication you're presenting your research or there are often expectations around Yet the content that goes into very directly from what we talked viable communication design. So the structure might be set. So for example in a pitch deck, there's an expectation that you'll you'll introduce your team, you'll talk But how you approach that, how you define and frame the problem, tested to figure out the best way for So I think that those structures a pitch where the person says, in your that's wonderfully helpful. That's very insightful information about, want to hear my message, Great, now I'm going to iterate each one of those identified steps, how can I maximize the value of So I actually think the structure given we walk through is the call to action component required our alum as a volunteer in the National perhaps some emotion but he feels it gives us action, so any thought for- the work you do in the National Parks. I and my family have benefited from, learning from the people who are there, You don't always have to I would like for you though to consider, What are the advantages and And then make a judgment call. So I share in the process, I introduced the idea of where But you don't always have to invoke it. Again, you know your audience, you know you, but we'd like you to consider what And there are calls to action that It could simply be thank you for your time and the environment, and I encourage it's very important, that's a very So again, it's not always required, I do if I were to do that what would it sound disadvantages of doing so. &gt;&gt; Perfect. &gt;&gt; A couple of quick set of questions. &gt;&gt; Yes. what do you choose? &gt;&gt; I choose standing, I'm standing now. I stand for two reasons. One, it helps me focus, And two, standing allows me to use my full I can get more air into my lungs and I call vocal stamina, the ability If you stand though, you want to make sure that sway and So it comes down to your foot position, underneath your shoulders. If your feet are splayed a duck which is how many of us stand, it invites this swaying If you know you do sway and you're doing it virtually, get a stool, or There is no way you will sway or you'll literally fall over if you try. So I like to stand. And what else, if you sit, that's fine. The big thing about sitting is you want to either locked down or cannot swivel a rock And many chairs have armrests and you look like you're a robot because your remove or lower those armrests so &gt;&gt; Great, and what are your thoughts &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] So I am a simpleton. It is very hard for If you are in a situation where then multiple cameras Again, it's novel, it can change it's hard to manage. I thought what you were going to ask, I thought you were going to say one or And I have a different opinion on screens, I do think having multiple Today, I have two screens that that allow me to keep track of where you are in terms of how So screens are different, get comfortable with them, but I myself &gt;&gt; Thank you so much, Matt. In the last couple of minutes, I would like to ask you if you have any around increasing And also, is there a way for us or consultant? &gt;&gt; Well, thank you for So I do believe the speaking up without be very helpful to people who want to building confidence. The book was written for that, the book mind so those of you who have been here or The book I mentioned earlier when I Made to Stick, I think is a wonderful can be very helpful. There are lots of videos and I've tried to curate a lot of those In terms of reaching out to me, in any way I can, my email address can It's also here, I'll put up my my screen But I'm very happy to reach out, I co-founded a consulting We do this work out in the corporate I really just encourage all of you Communication is critical. We saw through the pandemic incredibly important to keeping our our personal lives connected and communication that approach can So thank you for listening, and if I