quick One o'clock Prison guard criminal Others follow me. superior You, you, up yes They only have one person Gotta catch her Give me a rush Give me a rush Chief Sir, Sir Chief Sir, Sir Go! Go! rush Are you leaving? Smooth Flow So much nonsense. So cool It really hurts Can you be gentler? Then you have to endure it. People are not frivolous Wounds heal naturally faster How is it? Is everything arranged? Arranged This time, thanks to you And let Master Liu suffer so much for me Thanks Fortunately, there was no mistake. Hello, Miss. Who are you looking for? I Mr. Ma invited me here. Are you You're in the wrong room. How could I have walked into the wrong room? This was the room last time. The money hasn't been paid yet. We agreed to get married this time. Wrong room. How could I have walked into the wrong room? I just don't want to give money. Sooner or later, you will have to pay for what you have done. Go back, quickly Go back soon Hurry up, hurry up Sir, please What, go back? Chief Please, sir. Right there, just let me go Chief What's going on? There is a situation Professor Takeuchi Get out of the way quick Get out of the way Get out of the way Get out of the way Run fast Run Get out of the way hurry up Hurry up, hurry up Murder Cheng Cheng Quick, quick, quick Pay attention to concealment Over there quick stop Follow me Let me go Fast, fast Mr. Takeuchi is taking a break How long have you been resting, sir? After the two women left Until now Bitch Tell me who is that man Beat you to death Freeloader You dare to hit me, Beat you to death Beat you to death beat Letting go Beat you to death good Beat you to death How do you drive? Sir, there's a disturbance ahead. what to do Go fast Hurry up, hurry up Quick, over there, over there quick Go, Go This way, quick , Who are you? Why, kill me Twelve o'clock is your deadline You have one minute now. You know Who am I? Ryuta Ichi Japan's Special High Police Office in Hong Kong Seventh President of Tokugawa Corporation Then you should know What are the consequences of killing me? You now Thirty seconds left I don't know you, why Twenty seconds Who hired you? I can pay double the price ten Nine Nine seven six five Four Bastard two Bastard Put me down You dare to let me go I will kill all of you Chinese. You want to kill me Who hired you? No one hired us The Japanese pirates are to be killed by everyone Bastard This side hurry up Look at this. Look at this. You're the one who's dawdling. You're late. I'm wearing high heels. Retreat stop Surround them go ahead shooting quick Walk Go fast Bastard Report Come in Come in Sir, a suspicious person was spotted outside. Several people two two One outside the gate One on the roof Sir, do you want to take action? Chief Don't alarm them I want to catch him alive yes Walk Don't move Go fast quick Lanlan, come here quickly Kimura Beichen, there are enemies ahead. I'll block it. You go outflank them. Chief It should be just a small group of enemies rioting There is no need to mobilize a large number of troops Your safety comes first Bastard executes orders Chief Quick retreat Go fast Chief Emergency Assembly Chief This must be a small group of enemy riots Sir, the shooting has stopped. Bastard Bastard yes coward coward Chief We have arrived at Xiguan Street The terrain is very complex. Suitable for ambushes Order to stop Chief Gao Ming but This time we had Kimura's breakfast This lunatic will be very angry. Let's drive Order to evacuate Notify our people Go to the Army Hospital to prepare to pick up Lao Liu good All Japanese Yen Boring I'll go check it out Let's sit like this. That's not a solution. What do you want? I don't know either. I just want to hear what you think. I thought so I'll wait for Kimura to come. We'll go if we have a chance. No chance, retreat. Isn't that what the lieutenant said? So, tomboy We can't act rashly, you know? Ninth Sister Did you know I just saw a doctor Holding a Such a big wallet Yeah Where is it? Look That one Look, my pockets are still bulging. This is not just now, The guy who kicked us both out? Tomboy Stay here quietly, don't move. Wait for me to eliminate harm for the people, rob the rich and help the poor good How about it They didn't take action What to do then Let's go to the Army Hospital first. Go pick up Jiu Sui Hong and Lan Fenghuang Walk Damn kid, how dare you lie to me Dare to lie to me your Go away, hurry up later What happened Why send so many people? Oops, Oops Tomboy is in trouble , Don't be impulsive Brother, where is the ambush? Ambush, what the hell? Don't you see they are all devils? Let's go back first. That old six Old Six I hope everything is ok. I'll talk to you when I get back. Walk ten Nine seven six Hurry, go five Four We meet again What are you looking for Is this it? Why no sound? And this doctor He doesn't have a medical license. So he was arrested too. Walk Walk Who is this person? Are you a doctor? , they really caught someone Who is this person? , The doctor was arrested. Go up, quick. hurry up , , , Don't mind if Chinese people beat up Chinese people. , withdraw Walk Almost beaten to death Who are these people? Bastard Didn't you see your compatriots being beaten? Chase me yes Bastard Imagine We are old friends. This scar is given by you. In your Chinese words Should this be called Those who survive a great disaster will surely have good fortune in the future I'm not I really regret not killing you with one punch. Girls, don't curse. Be gentle Do you understand gentleness? Be gentle with your head Little devil, come at me if you dare Why do you touch a girl? I didn't see you in Hong Kong You're not with them, are you? You can't control this. I just want to kill all you little Japanese What? You'd better kill me now. You'd better kill me now. Killing you is certain. But not now Because you are very important to me. Stop talking nonsense to me Want us to be important to you Stop dreaming. If I want to kill you, do it quickly. She is a woman, I can forgive her for cursing You, no Son of a bitch If you were a man Just put me down. Challenge me You are a woman after all Dealing with women I have many ways I'm not You bastard, let her go. Let her go. Report Sir, Kimura is awake In your office Wait till I come back Your friends are coming soon. , This is your most important role. Coward, you coward Sir, I'm not a coward. You can put the knife down. Sir Sir Bastard yes How can you use such a despicable method as drugs? Chief I'm concerned about your personal safety. No Beichen You are thinking about yourself Think about your own achievements You want to take advantage of this opportunity Catch your opponent Isn't it? very good Beichenjun I was right, right? You are taking your superior Using your superior as bait Chief I'm concerned about your personal safety. How dare you talk nonsense? Bastard All right then Since I am your bait Chief So Please tell me I helped you catch some big fish Answer me Answer me The Chief is coming Sir, are you okay? Beichenjun You are disrespecting your elders. Sir, get up quickly. Get up quickly Hokushinjiro You will pay for your actions. Bastard Chief Suspicious person found at the back door They finally arrived Want to take action? No Remove all mobile posts at the back door I want to make sure none of them can escape what to do It doesn't matter They'll come out again in a bit. No matter what happens Keep a close watch on the torture chamber. yes Tears It can't solve the problem We can only fight unyieldingly To be able to shit We are all tied up here, why are we still fighting? Not fearing sacrifice is the best form of struggle Bullshit is all bullshit It's not good for girls to swear. So what do you want grandma to say? It's all your fault If you hadn't followed suit, We completed our mission long ago and returned to Hong Kong It's all your fault Girl, you don't know We have an irreconcilable hatred with Kimura This murderer killed seven of our brothers. We followed all the way from Shaoguan Can your brothers come to rescue us? Yes But you'd better not come Why Look outside There's not a single guard. This is clearly a trap. So if you want to get out alive We have to rely on ourselves What to do then? struggle Unyielding struggle You are so nagging. Are you done yet? Please tell me what to do. Xiaomei changes clothes Don't turn around yet Sacrifice yourself for the survival of more people This is my value The devil's butcher knife The blood of brothers and sisters I will make them pay with blood. The ancients had a poem saying Everyone dies since ancient times Keep your loyalty to history Okay, okay. Stop blowing the train. Do you see that pillar? It is the main beam of this house. In this prison Such a solid support This is the spirit. Great Spirit You are really sick. I mean The main beam broke and the house collapsed. We can run away. run You want to be a deserter? alright alright The neck is twisted How about it Alright? Wait a minute, Amei and I will go in first. You are responsible for staying After Amei went in You must find out where Lan Fenghuang is imprisoned as soon as possible. I'm responsible for providing cover at the commanding heights. You two should remember Unless absolutely necessary Don't alarm the Japanese. OK Prepare for action I'll be back again, hurry up With your attitude, you are not worthy of fighting against Japan. I'm against you. You, you speak foul language I'm dirtying your head I'm gasping for breath I didn't say anything this time I said your head you You're taking it too far I'll tell you again you How did you do that? What How to untie the rope I didn't tell you Can I shrink my bones? Big brother, do you want to take action? action yes Commander Kimura requests to fight Keep an eye on him no matter what method he uses yes hurry up What? Help me untie the rope Hurry up, my grandma is cursing quick Brothers, please don't come. Judging from the noise, it should be the Long Gun Team It seems that the person caught by the hospital One of them What to do now I'm going there You must find out where Lan Fenghuang is imprisoned as soon as possible. good What are you doing? Don't just look at it, come and help me I'll come The house will collapse. Aren't we also crushed to death in there? According to the cyclotron principle Just hit it at a 19-degree angle The sound waves from the bullet It will continue to move its position Until you fall, Help me smash it Go! quick I see You still want to run? Don't be afraid fine Big Brother I think the Japanese's fighting power is just like this rush Jade Egg Li Si Quickly, quickly Quick, quick It's time to close the net Quick, quick quick Quickly hurry up Don't be afraid, I'll protect you. Protect your head. I'm afraid of being smashed to death. Why did the gunfire stop? Almost Sir, all the enemies have been captured. all Is there any A cripple No So to speak Our game is not over yet Take them all to the torture chamber Sir, Sir Kimura is awake woke up What's the meaning You asked me to keep an eye on Chief Kimura I had to knock him out. Bastard How is he now? Very angry Let him cool down. Tell him we have captured the prisoners. Now being taken to the prison yes Your standing there yes hurry up Go Faster quick Prisoners of war Our Don't Kill them all All Kill idiot you are so Beautiful Just a little bit Since it's just that little bit Then let me finish it. You can't go The pillars could fall at any time. This is the safest place Why is it so bad? Bastard Bastard There is a sniper Everyone, everyone follow me Sniper on top Chase Sister Meizi, Sister Meizi You guys go quickly Brother, brother, go! I don't know who designed this building. I don't know who designed this building. Really no taste Waste of space No beauty You see, it's better than before. There are two more mobile whistles I'll go in. Ninth Sister Who are you looking for? Is Boss Hu here? exist Boss Hu, someone is looking for you Mr. Liu is coming Boss Hu Long time no see Yeah yeah Secondary School Pour a cup of tea for the guests Okay This is the city defense map you want. Give me some money Give me some money Give me some money Bastard Bastard Bastard Let's go Look how good this color is. This is also good This one looks good. This one is pretty good. Like this yes Thank you, thank you, thank you Robbing the rich to help the poor again Gave it all Let's do it to the end Got the stuff, let's go According to the scheduled plan Amei and I will go in first Guaizi Ma, Lan Fenghuang, you two should take over Nine-year-old Hong, Mr. Liu stayed behind Yes, let me emphasize again. In not receiving Before the final attack order ' Everyone must remain absolutely calm. Especially you, Lan Fenghuang Leaders are assured Our main task this time is Just explore the path If you have the chance, do it. Evacuate if there is no chance Absolutely no alarm is allowed Do you understand? clear clear Someone is coming , Thanks to Beichen I can watch games every day And it gets more and more exciting I like this way of saying goodbye yes Know Beichenjun I guess the show tonight is over. yes Then you should rest early. Who stop