- [Occupy The Web] Go and or listen to them, get started. There's hundreds, and most of 'em are bad. - You and I have spent a lot of money buying a lot of books, and I'm really glad that you said in the so that people watching don't have to go and buy all the books, but just buy the books (upbeat music) Everyone, David Bombal If you haven't seen our previous videos, he's the author of this book, &quot;Linux Basics for Hackers&quot;, a fantastic book if you from a hackers point of view, great book. He's also the author of this book. Welcome and tell us you have or you are writing more books. Is that right? - [Occupy The Web] That is correct. Thank you for having me back, David, I've always enjoyed being I am writing more books. Hopefully my &quot;Network Basics for Hackers&quot; is out by the end of the year. That's gonna be an interesting book for those of you who read my other books, in that it's gonna be exposition of many of the different network protocols and how they can be broken. Well, including automobile hacking, automobile networks, and radio frequency So, we're gonna start off and all those protocols. And then we're gonna advance into these more esoteric, maybe esoteric. - [Occupy The Web] And we also gonna have some real heavy coverage of wifi cracking. So we're gonna go really deep into wifi, and I know everybody's favorite subject is wifi and wifi cracking. So, it's probably gonna be, you know, one of the most in depth with a lot of examples and how wifi actually works. So, look for that book, hopefully it'll be up on And then I have another one coming in 2023, and it's scheduled for February 7th, but I can tell you right now, it's not gonna be out February 7th. I've told the publisher to, you know, push that back a little bit, but it had taken pre-orders for it now, and it's actually selling pretty well in pre-orders already, so. - For everyone who's watching, what I really like about the situation is, Occupy The Web is but he's written his own books, so he's an author. And what I wanted to try and but Occupy The Web, this is What books would you recommend that someone buy or have a look at if they wanna become a hacker like you? And I mean, you've obviously you've got your own books, but is there any of your favorite books? - [Occupy The Web] Okay, well, yeah, I've read most of the book, not all of 'em, but most of obviously I'm in the and I read other people's books. So what I've done is that I think are high quality and should be on your list to read if you wanna be a hacker, all right. So, let's start off with the obvious. The obvious is if you wanna you gotta start with &quot;Linux I mean, that book was designed for just that purpose is that this is for, it meant to be small, compact, accessible, and give you the essentials of what you need to do So, that's number one. Not necessarily the best, I'm saying it's a first in your path. - Now, let me play the nasty role just to keep this unbiased. I've had feedback from people that say the problem with your &quot;Linux is it's also a bit old. - Are you gonna make perhaps looking at next edition of this perhaps or something? - [Occupy The Web] Yes, It was published in 2018. It was mostly written in 2017. I am in discussions right to come out with a new that's all gonna be updated and have some new material in 2023. So we hopefully you'll - And this book, it I don't wanna jump again, is that right? - [Occupy The Web] That will It was written in 2019. It really needs some new so, we'll come out with a Then there's a number of other good books that are out there, and so I wanna mention a few of them. A few of them, I've got that these are high quality, good books. - Just for everyone who's watching Occupy The Web hasn't told me which books he's recommending, so, it's gonna be a surprise But hopefully I've got some of the books and you know, so let's continue. - [Occupy The Web] &quot;Gray is an excellent book. It's really big and really in depth. - I think I've just got the - [Occupy The Web] Six edition, there you go, you've got. And it's quite thick, yeah. - [Occupy The Web] Yeah, it's a big book. And so it has, it's got what? - 647 Pages or 670 pages? Sorry, I thought you were but just talking about - [Occupy The Web] Yeah, it's 2305 to rent, what is it? It's like 4634. It's a big book, lots of information. It's one of those books as kind of a reference on your shelf, and I keep on updating it, which is good. So, it's always relatively up to date. So, that's one you wanna have. And if you can read the whole book, great. If you can't, then, you know, it's one of those books you There's another book that is called, &quot;This Is How They Tell Which is written by Perlroth. She's a New York Times writer, and there's a lot of books out there. - This is not a techie book, is it? - [Occupy The Web] It's it's more about the industry. This is how they tell me number one Best Seller This seller tell me, The World Ends a Cyberweapons Arms Race, this is really a good book, right? So if you want something a relatively up to date perspective on what's happening in the hacking world, she's not a techie, but she has enough technical knowledge to be able to explain what's going on. And she interviews all of these hackers from all over the world. If you're just starting out and you wanna have some idea of what this world is like, you know, what the hacking world is like, Perlroth does a good job. She also has an audiobook, so it's one of those things on your commute or when - I'll say this, Lex interviewed her, I'll put the link below, a great interview where you asked to. - [Occupy The Web] I'll This is a good book, I have read it. It gives you a real good overview of what is happening in hacking around the world on a global scale and how it's impacting security, how it's impacting law enforcement, how it's impacting geopolitics. So, she does a really good job. It's a book that I wish I had written, (David and Occupy The Web laughing) actually, I had been planning but she did it before me, and she did a really good job, so. Okay, moving on then, the next book is one on people's best books It's called &quot;Hands On Hacking&quot;. I like it mostly for the way that he, it's Matthew Hickey and Jennifer Arcuri. - I got too many of these, Yeah, it's like 600 pages about, yeah. - [Occupy The Web] It's a big book. I like the way that it's developed. I like the pedagogy of it, the way that they go through each of the different areas, that's the way that it I think the way the book And so, I like this book a lot. Become an Expert at Next Gen - You and I have spent a lot and I'm really glad that, you know, you said in the beginning, you know, people watching don't have to go and buy all the books, but just buy the books - [Occupy The Web] Yes. there's hundreds, and most of 'em are bad. If you are looking for technical books, I think it's important going It's important for somebody who's starting out in the industry to get a perspective of not just from a technical perspective, but from a global perspective and that's why I like Perlroth's book. Some people like the I don't particularly, I mean, they're like fairy tales, you know, the Mitnick books, but for each their own, right? I don't particularly like them, so, they're not on my list. - I think the audience and for me, I want you to give us your opinion because you well respected, you've been in this game for a long time. A lot of people watching so it's nice to know the and why you recommend them. - [Occupy The Web] Next book A Hands On Introduction to Hacking. When this first came out, which was quite a few years ago now, it was really a great book. You can see some of it came out in 2014, so it's a little on the, a little long in the tooth now. I know that Georgia is working on an updated version of this, and that's Georgia Weidman. It's a good book. I say at one time it was a great book, but now it's kind of, because it's a little bit old, I'd say it's a good book She does a real good job here. - So, just by everyone watching, I don't know what's coming, so, I mean, I'm just having to see if I've got the books, but here it is. So, another quite a long book, worth it. - [Occupy The Web] I'm sure that you probably have a lot of these books. - 490 pages or so. - In other words, this is a bit older, but it's still relevant, right? - [Occupy The Web] I would say, you know, one of the things that she's trying to teach you So, it's good for learning the mindset of a penetration tester, but the hacks are aged, So that's the drawback, but it's still useful in trying to learn how to be, what it needs to be, what the mindset you need to the process. Next, I wanna put on, my &quot;Getting Started - What I like about your books is, I mean, this is not a I'll just say this, I would've been surprised if you didn't mention your own books, but just so that it's not biased because people will say I'd say everyone go and have Amazon non-biased reviews, if you like. There's a lot of great reviews. So yeah, highly recommend - [Occupy The Web] Thank you. It's designed once again for people who are just getting started I think that my books, you know, I try to make them easy to understand, I try to use simple language. I realize that a lot of people who are reading my books, English is not their first language, so, I try to keep that and try to be as simple without using a lot of So hopefully that's on your list of books that you should read in the near future. Next on my list is, you know, one of the things that is often overlooked by penetration testers, There's a couple of good books, but the one that I like is Now, Hadnagy has been He's had some problems, but his books are still good no matter what problems, personal problems he's had. This is a excellent book. The Science of Social Engineering. I think a lot of hackers kind of overlook social engineering. They all want the technical aspects of it. But as I've pointed out even the best hackers in the world use social engineering to inside the system, oftentimes, usually. I would say at this point that you're probably looking at 80% or something better than have an element of social engineering. And Hadnagy does a good job of laying out the science So, give you a better understanding so that you're not just sending out a bunch of phishing emails hoping somebody will click on it, which I get hundreds of every day. So he's like, okay, what motivates people so that you can get them or to give you the I'll also point out that my &quot;Getting Started has chapter 17 on social engineering. That tells you how important I think it is that I create a whole separate chapter on social engineering, Don't overlook social engineering, social engineering is a critical Next on my list is &quot;Black Hat Python&quot;. Excellent book. You probably have this one too, don't you? - Yeah, just for everyone who's watching, I interviewed the authors. - [Occupy The Web] That's right, you did. I did see that, yep. Okay, well, here it is. You interviewed Justin Seitz, I remember that you had And this is a really good book. You know, it's Python, which is part of the skill set that you need to be a hacker. (indistinct) And mostly, there you go, okay. It's really probably the best Python book that is designed for It starts off and just and then uses examples, kind of similar to my &quot;Linux My &quot;Linux Basic for Hackers&quot; is designed to teach you fundamentals of Linux from a hacker's perspective. Justin Seitz and Tim from a hacker perspective. So, there's a lot of good If you're looking at simply using Python in a hacking pen testing environment, I really like this one, I think you should read this one. - What I really enjoyed is how humble Justin and You really can see when when they're not bragging about it, it's just part of them. And yeah, great authors, great book, yeah. - [Occupy The Web] Good I can't even say that I I watched it part of it, I need a TikTok interview. (David and Occupy The Web laughing) - I'm going to do that. - My attention span is only 60 seconds. - You're showing your age, you're only 19. We gonna put you on the spot here. I'll keep, Occupy The Web, you've got it now, explain - [Occupy The Web] I'll try, I mean, that's about my tension span, so I'm gonna have to do it. But I have constantly said that hacking is one of those things that takes a lot longer than you'll see on TikTok or YouTube. Oftentimes take years to But we'll try to condense some information into 60 seconds for TikTok. - That'd be great. - [Occupy The Web] Next on my list is, I know that you have an interview, you did an interview with Alissa Knight. - Yep. If you're interested in hacking cars, this is probably the best book out there. There's another book that's that is okay, right? This One's better and more up to date, gives a better perspective So, this is what I recommend. By the way, I'm doing a car hacking course next week, so probably it'll be already passed by the time you see this video. But this book is probably the best book on automobile hacking So, if that's an area I think she's done a really good job of putting this book together. I like the way that it's designed, I like the information that's in it. And part of writing a good book is, how do you walk the people And that's one of the that I liked about &quot;Hands On Hacking.&quot; I like that book for the way it walks people through the process, the pedagogy of trying This is another good example that walks people through the process in a way that makes it understandable. Next, this is kinda an old It's probably one of the first books that ever was written. &quot;Hacking: The Art of Exploitation.&quot; A second edition still is if I remember correctly, right? This is a classic book that some of the things well written, well designed, another No Starch Press, I think No Starch turns for those of you who are interested. Yeah, this came out in 2008. The original edition came out - And you know it's old - How do you do fellow kids? - [Occupy The Web] Right, right. Good book though even though it's aged, Now there's another book that came out in the last few years, Philip Wylie and Kim Crawley wrote this and it's gotten really good reviews and it's basically a starting a career as an ethical hacker. This is another excellent book, okay. It's mostly as a career guide, so, if you're new to hacking and you wanna make this your career or cybersecurity a career, this is a good place to explore what it means to work in this industry. And this came out I think and these are people who, you know, these aren't people who are just writing, these are people who They come at it from a perspective of people who are knowledgeable. The audio came out in 2021, I think the book came out in 2021 as well. - It's quite an easy book to read as well, I love it that he-- - [Occupy The Web] - Career stuff, yeah, it is. - I think it's less than 200 pages. &quot;Hacking APIs&quot;, you've got that one, you've interviewed them, Corey Ball. - Yeah, I interviewed Corey. I'll put the link below as well. - [Occupy The Web] All right, No Starch again, okay. If you go to No Starch Press, you can't go wrong with their book. What No Starch does is they won't put out a bad book. They work really hard to I know the publisher pretty well and he's really committed to The last one, I'm sure the Bug Bounty hunting book by Vickie Li. You interviewed her as well. - [David] Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I'll put the interview below. - This book is probably the best book that's been published so far. Another No Starch Press book. Again, another plug for No Starch. It's probably the best book that's been written so Not only how to get started, but then actually how to look Primarily it's focused Of course, Bug Bounty hunting isn't limited to web applications, but her book is designed and that's where most of goes on as in web applications but it's not limited to that. So, her book is focused on Bug Bounty hunting of web applications. You can see that hers is the number one. Most of the books I've chosen have come back as number That's not hard to do because Amazon has so many categories. (Occupy The Web and David laughing) And so, you gotta be number But that's 13 books that if you want to work in this industry. And there's not in any particular order, except that if you're and you're not familiar with Linux, start with &quot;Linux Basics for Hackers&quot;. I think I can say that without any bias that that's the place to start. And then try to fill in, depending upon what interest and what area you want to go into within the hacking pentesting world, try to pick up some of these other books. You don't have to have all of 'em, but try to get some of them and try to give you some perspective on how you can develop a - One subject you haven't spoken about, so, I'm gonna put you on the Have we got a networking-ish book? Because I think your is the book we should look at. 'Cause a book like this is just crazy. I mean, this is another No But if you like, if you're a networking type person, this kind of stuff is like-- - [Occupy The Web] That's - This is crazy. - [Occupy The Web] There's that's kind of a reference book. And my &quot;Network Basics for Hackers&quot;, which is coming in, should be on Amazon by is designed to give you And unlike the TCP/IP guide, where are the vulnerabilities? How can a hacker use what they know about those networks to break them, right? Whether it be a cellular network, whether it be TCP/IP, whether it be a automobile network. So, it's designed once again to how to go ahead and break them. It's not designed to make but to provide you enough information that you can find flaws - And that's great. I mean, I think for put your comments below. Are there any books that I strongly would back that. A lot of the books he's I really wanted Occupy you know, personal recommendations because he's been in this game a long time and obviously as an author it's great to get his viewpoints. Occupy The Web, anything I don't want to like end it at that point. Anything you wanna wrap up with? - [Occupy The Web] I just to not get discouraged, Go and grab, you know, one or two, or listen to them, get started. You don't have to read 'em all, in the six months or something like that. Make this kind of something that when you get to it, you'll read it. But if you're just starting out, some of these books are key, like &quot;Linux Basics for Hackers&quot;, like the the Blueprint book, those are good places And then you can add the - So, let me put you on the spot. what do you think about this book, &quot;The Web Application Hackers Handbook&quot;? A lot of people recommend this book. - I know a lot of people recommend it, but it's pretty aged, you know. I find that the information and if it was updated it would be great. When it came out it was a great book, but now it's specifically web applications and it doesn't include new technologies. What it does discuss in there is stuff that is 10, 15 years old. It came out in 2011, so it's been around like - This comes up a lot. We've spoken about Python, what about Go? So here's a book &quot;Black Hat do you think it's necessary or just stick with Python? - [Occupy The Web] Right now in our industry is Python. A lot of people are And quite frankly, I've and it looks good from what I can tell, but I haven't really read the whole book. I think a lot of people So, if you wanna kind of Go will probably be it, Go It has a lot of advantages over some of the other scripting language, but right now Python is still probably 80 to 90% of the scripting that takes place in the industry. - That's brilliant advice. I think especially for beginners, it's overwhelming even So, it's great that you like, give a bit of direction and just to plug for another video that Occupy The Web and I working on is Top Skills to Get. So, make sure that you Make sure that you so that you see when But to continue with books, a lot of people also like what do you think of these? - [Occupy The Web] I've read them and I don't particularly like them. Yeah, I know that a lot of I think that there's a lot, There's like all of these different hacks and not enough depth in them. So rather than taking and then providing the depth, like, well try this out, and then try this out, So that's my impression of them is that, I know they get good is on some people's best I don't particularly like - Life is interesting because and you know, different views of things. And what I really like which I highly respect, is that, you've been doing this for a long time and you've been in the game a long time. You've bought a lot of books, some you like, some you don't like, but I think what's really great is you've given us a bit of a roadmap. So, if someone's got limited funds and they want to like you've given them a So, really appreciate you sharing. - [Occupy The Web] Thanks I enjoy doing this again. - Brilliant, Occupy The We'll speak to you next time. And just before we wrap up, for everyone who's watching again, put below in the comments questions, things that you want me in future YouTube videos, - [Occupy The Web] Let and let us know what Let us know what books you think are really good or not, what skills are important, what kind of videos you wanna see. And we'd be happy to - Occupy The Web, as (upbeat music)