When highlighting software that contributed am now, there's one title that might top SimCity: The City Simulator, developed by on the second of February, 1989. SimCity is an undisputed classic that had and the millions that played with it, myself More specifically, the one I first owned was It was the first boxed retail game I ever software that wasn't just a bite-sized shareware our Packard Bell 486. And it thoroughly blew my seven year old mind. Gazing into that little 13" VGA monitor time was like an epiphany. Here was an entire virtual world that let More than anything else I had played to date, of control, paired with an unending urge to SimCity induced a mindset I'd never experienced its symbiotic systems, revealed that the physical and more fragile than I realized. As a kid I learned that my house resided inside my parents worked in commerce, that my hometown's could attack at a moment's notice with disasters Okay, so SimCity was never completely realistic. And that playful sensibility is a large reason because, let's be honest. When you first pick up SimCity, you more than and bulldozing the world. That being said though, the older I got, the into what made the simulation tick? That's when I started to truly appreciate was developed in the first place. It's a pretty well-known story at this point, Will Wright and his first commercially-released Distributed by Broderbund in 1984 for the helicopter shooter with more complexity than Instead of simply shooting anything that moves, Empire by way of defeating the very infrastructure Enemy units came from factories, factories and vehicles, vehicles rely on canals and the longer you play. The oft-repeated tale is that Will Wright buildings and infrastructure than bombing programming an increasingly detailed level However, it's also pertinent to acknowledge Alexander, and Stanislaw Lem if you're Over the years, Wright has repeatedly listed The Seventh Sally from The Cyberiad as direct Urban Dynamics describes the systemic structures decay based on computer simulations in the A Pattern Language lays out 253 interconnecting to be universal, with solutions on everything And The Seventh Sally is a science fiction inventing a miniaturized world filled with much to the horror of his friend Klapaucius. With each of these inspirations in mind, it would result, although early on it wasn't The pre-release Commodore 64 iteration from considering it was about managing a microcomputer It wouldn't last though due to a potential Micropolis, a manufacturer of hard disks and But being a simulated city, SimCity was a And once Will Wright met Jeff Braun a year things really got rolling. Braun had a multiplayer jet fighter simulation was becoming interested in Wright's city publish both of them through Broderbund. Braun's flight sim launched first in 1988, it Maxis's first published game even though Then in February of 1989, SimCity came out computer systems, with the popular IBM PC-compatible And it's the MS-DOS version we'll be admiring from my point view, SimCity defines the overall A feeling comprised of 16-color EGA graphics, and a feeling of captivating confusion and actually happening on-screen. Removing the outer sleeve of the 1989 IBM emblazoned with the original Maxis logo. Following this is a richness of physical content, floppy disks in both 3.5" and 5.25" forms. You also get a product registration card addressed commercial lot in Lafayette, California. Nowadays, it's now the Stillpoint Center Personal renewal, I presume, and not the urban kind. Next in the box you get two advertisements, and another for the Covox Sound Master. The latter of which was the only sound card one that is now exceedingly hard to find. Then there are a couple of sheets going over and installation stuff. Along with a fold-out reference card going copious keyboard shortcuts. Then there's the all-important copy protection This was to thwart duplication attempts using provide an illegible muddied image due to And lastly, there's the SimCity instruction amount of information regarding each and every It even has a whole section on the history Ellis, providing a brief summary on urban and the automobile, the importance of open And it wouldn't be complete without a bibliography adults alike, a section that would become Speaking of legacy, collecting SimCity releases can quickly become an obsession if you're not careful. My own obsession began when I first noticed original release with artwork displaying the Apparently Godzilla's owners, Toho, had a Godzilla-like monster on the packaging, featured the tornado disaster box art. Well, unless you were outside the US, with Australia overlaid with brightly-colored drawings And that's just scratching the surface, dozens upon dozens of releases for tons of systems. But yeah, let's go back to the DOS version And the first order of business is to determine it comes with a ton of 'em. Several monochrome modes, 16-color modes, the right patch installed. We're gonna stick with the hi-res 16-color with three menu options placed onto a classic You can start a new city, load an existing a new one has you choosing your city's name The latter affects your starting capital, maintenance costs and more. And seriously, hard mode is no joke. Barely any money, citizens are constantly strike incessantly, even simultaneously. If you play hard mode and manage to avoid five minutes, then my hat's off to you. Maybe stop playing SimCity and go fix real As for the rest of us, let's begin with starts with selecting an initial map location one of two types of power plants: coal or Then you'll wanna start dropping down zones types, each of which comes in fixed 3x3 cells And not unexpectedly, zones have to be powered SimCity this is accomplished by connecting already-powered zones. Transportation is also a requirement, with being the two transportation options on offer. Each powered zone will generate traffic so tile directly adjacent to it. And yeah, that's it for the necessities Compared to later games in the series there's pipes, not bothering with subways or buses, leaving zoning density up to the simulation It doesn't even have outside connections, Really, as long as you have a power plant a city with growth potential. And at its core, SimCity is all about that or decay, while balancing the demands of commercial, Half your time playing SimCity will be spent CRI indicator on the left-hand side of the idea of what's in demand. The other half of your time will be spent up every new year. But it's a good idea to open this budget some invaluable info on how much money you're It's also where you adjust the citywide police, and fire services. Speaking of which, traffic, crime, and fire most common types of "disaster" in any given city. Unless you're playing on hard mode of course but let's pretend that didn't happen. Anyway yeah, traffic! In particular, heavy traffic is treated like sense being how utterly debilitating it can Same with crime, because nobody wants to move give you the time of day. And of course fire is a standard disaster, menu along with all the others. And it's a scary thing in SimCity, with out the entire map if you don't pay attention. Still, the way you tackle these issues is Heavy traffic can be solved by constructing for your highest-density zones. Solving crime is a matter of keeping your wherever you've got the most awfulness. And with fire, just place a buncha fire stations because fire can't spread over blank land. Oh yeah, land, that's a thing. It has a value attached to it determined by with its proximity to crime, pollution, and All of this stuff is referenced in the map of the stats laid out and color-coded on top. There's also a graph window for referencing is awesome if ya love graphs. And I mean, if you're into a game like SimCity Oh and there's also an evaluation window, how you're doing in the eyes of the people. Y'know, in retrospect all this stuff might've to obsess over YouTube analytics decades later. Huh. Finally, you have three more buildings on supporting a specific zone type. Sports stadiums provide extra incentive for and come with passenger planes and traffic and incentivize industrial growth. And yep, that's the gist of SimCity! Plop stuff down, watch it do its thing, address until you're satiated or until something I've seen SimCity gameplay compared to gardening Placing zones is like planting seeds, power watering, disasters and broken infrastructure SimCity is a garden of pixelated people. And it's a rather zen-like experience even I love how rapidly I can still get sucked despite the relative simplicity of the simulation. And considering how unique it truly was back Yet I can also see why it was initially such partners and to the general public. It took years for a publisher to take a chance took a bit of convincing with gamers, reportedly months at retail. SimCity just wasn't like most other games Sure, players could run out of money or fail simulating, never provided a traditional game There was plenty of discussion as to whether definition of its day. As Will Wright himself put it, &quot;Most games and the requirement of a climactic blockbuster My games are more like a hobby - a train set Basically they're a mellow and creative playground SimCity sparked a sort of revolution in the Meier chiming in to say, &quot;SimCity was a revelation The idea that players enjoyed a game that construction over destruction opened up many Perhaps all of this is what led Maxis to later rather than straight up games, pushing the of what interactive entertainment could accomplish. Whatever the case may be, once SimCity got word of mouth did its thing. Newspaper articles, high-scoring reviews, It took time, but SimCity started to catch By 1992, SimCity had sold over one million games in history, and had won over two dozen This led to an onslaught of positive buzz future products and constant requests for &quot;The CIA, Defense Department, Canadian Lumber Association, and the Australian Tax Board, among others, all contacted us,&quot; recalled One piece of software that resulted was SimRefinery, SimRefinery was a simulation of their refinery as to how a refinery works. "It wasn't so much for the engineers as walked through this refinery every day and There was even a story about a high schooler each of the city's mayoral candidates to The only candidate to succeed in the game would go onto win the election for mayor. Somewhat controversially too, seeing as he'd just been released from prison on a felony assault conviction. On a lighter note, SimCity also gained a sizable foothold in education, being used in classrooms around the country and paving the way for to produce their own teacher's editions of SimCity. At one point SimCity was being used in over making it one of the few fascinating examples and mainstream gaming. With this unprecedented success and press would receive some addons, the first one being The Terrain Editor was a separate program allowing players to generate new maps, customize waterways, and even modify save files to change Next came the SimCity Graphics sets, with Effectively, these were tile packs to customize more than give the existing content a new These were Ancient Asia, Medieval Times, Wild And as mentioned almost seventeen minutes taking everything from the previous releases Well, depending on which version you got, Graphics, and CD-ROM versions all available And even after all this we've only looked One could easily dedicate an entire series and canceled prototypes, the Mayfair card nuclear energy and urban renewal, Interplay's spin-offs like SimCity Junior and SimTown, the oddly late to the party Commodore 64/128 on future urban planners, and who knows what decades and a single YouTube video cannot So lemme just say that SimCity had an incalculable give both the game and its designers massive props for that. But that's only why I respect SimCity. It's not why I love it, that's far more For all the awards and accolades, for all for all the worldwide influence it had on Eh, I mean, that's secondary stuff. For me, it all goes back to those early mornings front of a Packard Bell CRT, basking in the commercial, and industrial demands. No music playing, very few sound effects, of the underlying simulation. Nonetheless, SimCity was the most detailed experience I'd ever had back then. It was the first step on what would become of my surroundings, the synergistic systems live their lives and make those systems possible Playing the game and studying how it worked greater at a time when I didn't even know And to me, that is what makes SimCity an all-time even after thirty years. And if you enjoyed this episode of LGR, then excellent. I've talked about more SimCity things in future, with new videos on all kinds of topics And as always thank you very much for watching!