- [Narrator] On this island near Shanghai, a massive industrial About two decades ago, the Now it's a shipbuilding powerhouse. - That single shipyard has than the entire US naval - [Narrator] In 2023, more than half of the world's commercial from China alone. The US accounted for less than 1% of that. Here's how China became and what that could mean for (gantry crane engine buzzes) At San Diego's Nassco shipyard, thousands of workers clock in by the largest naval Despite the increase in spending, the country's once thriving has dwindled. At the same time, China's shipbuilding footprint - China has over 200 times of the US. - [Narrator] As a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and in Washington DC, China's shipbuilding - You can see the deep green hull and you can see the Evergreen Its shipbuilding empire as its economy has been We're talking about over being injected into the - [Narrator] China to build up the world's In 2023, the US Department China had over 370 battle force ships. That's about 78 more than the US. By 2030, China expects to reach 435 ships while the US fleet is projected to stay the same size or get smaller. - We have less ships, but they're bigger. We also have an advantage when of missiles that our ships are So larger ships, more firepower. - [Narrator] The US has more 11, compared to China's two. This means the US Navy can in multiple areas and launch But China is catching up. Recent satellite imagery analyzed by CSIS shows significant progress on China's third aircraft carrier and other key naval vessels. - [Matthew] It's unlikely the same number of aircraft just because it doesn't have or the desire for the but it is trying to erode that the US enjoys. - [Narrator] All of this because of China's colossal shipyards. Like this one at Changxing Island. Satellite imagery shows dozens of ships under construction - [Matthew] It's not just It also produces them quickly. Part of that is the - [Narrator] It hasn't For decades, the US dominated the international reaching its peak in World War II. - [Newsreel] The mightiest the USS Iowa. - [Narrator] But by the 1980s- - The subsidies that had been went away during the The US shipbuilding industry - [Narrator] Meanwhile, and China continued to heavily - [Matthew] If you look what you see is an effort for China to make the facilities dual use. The dry docks, the assembly halls, the fabrication facilities Those are also being used in leverage to produce military vessels. - [Narrator] In 2023, China dominated the commercial producing more than Japan, South - US commercial shipbuilding industry has essentially gone away, where there is no in international scale. - [Narrator] At most US shipping of contracts come from one Without a commercial the nation's shipyards, workers and suppliers are reliant on - If you're counting on it's hard to tell sometimes certainly it's gonna cause of having confidence in making investments and training for and paying new workers. - [Narrator] In a statement, that it is, &quot;Collaborating to achieve the necessary speed and scale to deliver continuous Some US shipyards are battling backlogs, a lack of suppliers and ballooning costs. For instance, Pennsylvania's is still struggling to make money despite more than $1.7 In 2023, it reported a net Philly Shipyard did not respond Shipbuilding experts say the Too many of its ships which requires costly and And new ships are increasingly expensive and taking too long to build. In April, the Navy released for many critical shipbuilding programs, with some running behind - Doing maintenance on ships can be quite challenging. In some cases, and certainly for ships that were built during the Cold War, repair parts suppliers may - [Narrator] In China, are pouring in for not but also container ships, oil tankers and bulk carriers for - And just one Chinese company, CSSC, which is state owned, is actually one of the in commercial ship production. CSSC is massive and it of subsidiaries, so a shipyard five surface combatants, from foreign companies as well. - [Narrator] Last year, signed a $3 billion deal with Taiwanese company, Evergreen Marine, sends large contracts its way too. The commercial and military overlap can be seen most clearly at Jiangnan Shipyard. Commercial container ships, are built alongside wartime This merging of resources to build big ships and build them fast. - If you just look at three year period, you'd maybe putting two or three Whereas for China, we're - [Narrator] China's of its transformation into but it's also a pivotal strategic asset. In the event of a drawn for instance, naval experts would give its military an upper hand. That's because it would be able to quickly replace lost ships But naval experts say the US might be slow to ramp up shipping facilities mid war. - If you're only producing a handful of military hulls every year, when you're losing X number of vessels at any given time in a particular battle, how are you going to - [Narrator] In a statement, &quot;We are addressing delays, and ensuring our fleet remains the most capable in the world.&quot; That's why the US is investing and maintenance. In the past eight years, Congress has added an extra more than any other part - They're looking for funding of dollars of what's of the older facilities that we have to try to catch - Chinese submarines are what the US is able to put into the water. In just terms of raw capabilities, the US still has a pretty but it is shrinking. - [Narrator] Despite these US advantages, naval strategists say China's fleet size will ultimately give it leverage The more ships the better. To ramp up shipbuilding the US Navy has proposed of a 30 year plan, but all of them require an from $245 billion, to as - [Matthew] If the US did to produce both commercial the question might lie outside We might wanna look to like Japan and South Korea, that are leading producers and they also do produce (bright music)