I look at this face far too much. I mean Minecraft is literally my job. It's hard to avoid it sometimes. But even though the creeper is a staple in Minecraft gameplay, I want more explosions. I don't know if you guys noticed this or not, but I'm kind of a fan of chaos. - What is that? - Oh, uh-huh. And what better way is there to cause chaos than a good old fashioned explosion? So because of that, I found this. Oh boy, we'll get to this guy later. But first, let's talk about your mission to save reality from creatures of mass destruction. You guys have all done wonderfully. The mission has gone incredibly well and you guys have completed all of the goals that were set up before you. Now, how in the world do I know about a top secret mission that only you and Agent 500 are supposed to know about? Well, you see, the reality of those situations can be twisted. Sometimes people might not be who you expect. What if reality could be better? And what if there was nothing you could do? (laughing) (computer sounds) Hello? Hello? Can you hear me? Does this thing even work? I'm not getting any visual confirmation. I'm really hoping this is going through. This is Agent 877. Nothing is as it seems. I repeat. Nothing is as it seems. The creatures they beat us to it. They reached full power about three days ago. We didn't see it coming at all. I lost contact with command about 2 days ago. Which means we're probably on our own. I have a very limited amount of time because the moment they pick up on this broadcast I'm toast. There is still some hope. I found a way to extend the timer. With a lot of trial and error I managed to get into their systems and extend the date of their final attack. I only was able to push it about a week, but that is enough time that we could actually take them down. So, to anyone that can see this, go to the link down in the description right now. You could still manage to secure one before it's too late. We can still capture these creatures and save reality. Hold on, I even managed to make it easier to get one. You can use this code for 10% off of the plushie. I'll put this in the description as well. I did manage to secure one myself. Fair warning, they are absolutely terrifying when you first receive them, but they become very passive after a while. Once again, I repeat, go to the link in the description, get yourself one of these creatures of mass destruction before they completely destroy reality. You can use this code for 10% off. This mission isn't over yet. I gotta go. Whatever you just saw don't worry about it. It's probably not important. This is a regular old creeper. Hey, man Hey, man, calm down calm down. Something You'll notice is that they don't really get that close to you before they blow up and their explosions are fine But they don't do all that much damage plus I could pretty easily escape this guy if I just you know Walk into a home. Yeah, he just completely lost sight of me. He's just dumb So that's where this first mod comes in and it's simple, but it's effective. Lemme just sleep real quick here. Ah yes, a beautiful new day and our creeper buddy is none the wiser or is he? This is Creeper AI Updated and you'll notice a few new things. Oh Geez. Number one. Um, that's a lot of fire Number two creepers can actually jump towards you. Whoa, there he goes Geez once again lot of fire and number three creepers will now try to get as close as possible to you and that means um Yeah blowing through walls here he comes He's I'm last time he couldn't get through but yeah that time he could oh boy This can only go well, right this can only go well. Look, they're still coming towards me Just blew through the wall. I gotta put the fire out Put the fire out before it burns my house down! Get away from the walls! Oh man. Oh, man Oh, man, my entire forest is on fire now. What did you do? The freaking creepers (screaming) Hey, I didn't die That's kind of a-- Next up. We have baby zombies. That's not what I meant to spawn. Baby skeletons? Enderman, that's what we're after. No, wait, hold on Cave spider? Baby Witch? Baby Ravager? That naturally comes with a baby pillager No, no, that's not what we're looking for. Although, this is pretty funny We're looking for the baby parrot not really I'm kidding. Baby creeper! That's what we're looking at and if I just go into survival nothing could po-- gosh freaking dang it man I didn't mean to do you freaking you guys you just do I'm grabbing all my stuff Ahhh it's a real ravager! It did it did a splode My point is baby creepers exist and they do a tiny splode compared to the normal creeper explode and there's just there's just more babies There's babies of like everything. They're all small. Everything is tiny and they're adorable Ahh it's so small. It's a normal sized elder guardian but like guardian, you know? Look it's the same size as them. They're the same except that one's now tiny And you're small now Tiny shulker! That's so weird What about tiny ghast? Oh, he's so small. Do you still explode me? Oh, you need to stop man Does he still even explode me? What is going on? Oh, geez. Oh, I have mining fatigue. Oh, geez Ravager You're tiny now, haha. Oh, hello tiny creeper. Oh, yeah, that's right Yeah, I guess I should have expected that but baby creatures weren't enough for me So I actually installed another mod alongside this one (ENEMY AC130 ABOVE!!) I don't I don't know. This is the tactical creeper Yeah, it just explodes. It's like a baby creeper but like more. And in survival mode There's no hope. what happens if I put him inside this house? Yeah, there's no house anymore cool those guys are great I guess. This guy though right here kind of cute He's kind of adorable. Oh, it's gone. Oh But what if we turn creepers into plants? I mean they're green so they must photosynthesize. So now instead of causing damage to the surrounding area these guys Just give you spores. You see that little icon in the top right? That means I'm infected and after about three minutes I I'm I'm the host ah ha You. This is a creeperling. Hey little guy. How's it going? He's just gone. See you bud. See ya They're also natural prey for cats Here we are in the wild Watching a cat getting its prey. That was the worst Australian accent ever I apologize to any of my Australian audience because this just sucks. Look at him go! Look at- Look at- he's really he's really trying He's really going! You can do it jelly. Ibelieve in you! Come on go go faster Go faster you can get him you can get him what if I push it back towards you What if I push it back towards you wait wait no come back creeperling come back no no no no you're not supposed to stop Stop it. Stop it. Go back. Stop it. Go back. Go back. Stop it. Go back (sigh) This is a vicious cycle. What about that there we go there we go now. They're trapped. Haha There's no escape now creeperling ha ha ha Good job kitty you did it. Oh Subscarb Honestly, this is a really cool take on how creepers should work. Over time these guys will just grow back up into adult creepers because they Photosynthesize like literally they grow up in the sunlight like that's-- they require sunlight to grow now They also take more damage to fire because you know they're like they're like dry leaves basically yep Bye see ya, but charged creepers are actually still Oh Yeah, that's what I meant to do! Charged creepers still do damage Cuz they're charged creepers so collecting mob heads is still dangerous. I don't know I didn't make this mod I didn't write these rules in fact if you want to check out this mod for yourself You can see the original creator with the link in the description It's a pretty cool way to do it, but let's go to the next one because this is where it gets super cool These are elemental creepers. We've got water fire earth air electric light dark ice magma hydrogen reverse miner illusion firework cookie and rainbow All of which do different things and oh boy This is gonna get hectic don't mind me just hanging out in survival mode. There's so many of those Ahhh! What the heck? I'm trapped in here now! Oh no! Everything's dying what do I do? Oh, there's a creeper right there? Oh, I got illusion gunpowder. What does that mean? I gotta get out. Oh man. How do I get out? I think I'm stuck. Come on. Let me out. Yes. I'm free. Oh, there's still more creepers cookie creeper. Yay cookies! Show me your things Whoa Darkness and light. Two conflicting sources Dang whoever's house that is is probably in danger Oh shoot that's my house. Oh, no. What is this guy still doing here get out of here! Oh, I guess we missed one Is this the earth creeper? Hey, man? Oh, we missed a couple earth creeper. Oh! DIRT! This I think is the firework creeper. Go fly. Oh, yep Firework. Oh, that was cute. Ope. There's someone over here. Hey, man. How's it going? Oh, you're the uh-oh I guess I did say I like explosions. That was so many elements. That's so crazy. Oh, man. What's going on in here? What's happening here guys? What's going on? Huh. Oh this guy's got a weird face. COOKIES!! COOKIES!! RAINBOOWWWWWW!!! OHHHH!! WOOOOOOOOO!! Woah Woah Woah! WOAH!! OH NO!! I'm trapped down here with all them! Uh oh! All right, let me just clear all this up (pop) Perfect. It's time for more creepers though. These guys are ore creepers. And what do they do you may ask? Well That's a stupid question. I'm kidding. This is what they do. First. I gotta I gotta dig out a I gotta dig out a hole. Perfect. Hey, give me the diamonds. Yeah, I sure do love me some diamonds These guys turn whatever stone is around them into the ore that they are This grassy part of this world isn't great though So let's go underground. Just gonna spawn a few of these guys. No big deal or anything Just gonna... Just gonna spawn a few of them. Don't worry about it We're just gonna cover the ground in all of the things. I don't think this is I don't think this is enough yet Hey look naturally spawning ones. Come on boys. We're gonna turn this entire tunnel into valuable resources Yay! Not now zombie I'm converting everything into valuable things Look at all of you! You don't belong. Get out of here. Yes! Particles! Yes! Yeah- Ow. Ow. Ow. Get out of here! Freaking ya stupid zombie! It's all so perfect it's great. Oh, what ore are you? Hmm. I wonder where I could have been these guys are pretty cool though I actually really like this concept the fact that they do spawn naturally is kind of awesome. It gives you a chance to run up to them get a few extra ores and yeah, they're not as bad as these dudes. Oh no. There's also a way to get them all. I don't think this isn't survival, but you can you can make the ore creepers. Deepslate and stone? That's so cheap. It is time my friends for you to become the ultimate form of yourselves Take this blessing of the ore creeper-ness and turn into Wow. That was so much smoke YAY!! This is the best- Did any survive? Oh Geez. Some of them did. Oh no! OH! Hey free diamonds yo nice so that's the ore creepers They're pretty cool, but I think it's time for a creeper overhaul because surprise surprise That's what this next mod is called and you'll never guess what it does it overhauls creepers What? That's crazy. Also, there's a tiny cactus. Just figured I'd point that out. haha get it? point because it's pointy because point it's pointy? point- Let's start with the jungle creeper this guy naturally spawns in jungles You'd never guess it. But when he explodes, he does a really cool animation and it looks amazing In fact, I think most of these creepers have really cool animation This is the bamboo creeper and I don't think he actually explodes. I think he's actually a nice guy What happens if I aggravate him? Does he get aggravated? He doesn't really get aggri- Oh, he does get aggravated He attacks me. Hey, no, no calm down Calm down! Calm down! Get out of here- He hits kind of hard too - oh Rest in peace. These here are the desert and Badlands creepers. These are actually kind of sick Whoa, dude, the eyes glowing are actually kind of awesome. How about the hills creeper? He probably is found on hills. Does he attack me? Hey, man, you're chill chill creeper Do I punch you - oh and I have two hearts. Can I survive the entire thing? Savannah creeper! Whoa, you're cool. I guess this guy's also pretty passive unless you attack him. Oh run away! Hey man. Calm down Oh my gosh, there's like a little villager on there. Little villager. Ow. There's a slime. There's a creeper on top. That's so cool The answer was no I couldn't survive the whole thing. But at least I still have my tiny cactus! Let's go! I'm back and better than ever though Let's take him down Haha haha. Acacia We got the mushroom creeper, which is very cute looking. Once again passive unless I attack him. Swamp creeper which I assume yeah, no, he's not passive. Oh, he's cool looking though. That's crazy Look at you. Whoa, that guy's sick dripstone creeper, which I assume is also not passive. Cave creeper Oh, you're made out of AW look at your face Look at that guy's face. It's so cute until it explodes on you. Great. Dark oak creeper woah you're spooky. He's really cool I like the mushrooms. Oh, I'm blind. Whoa, whoo, Spruce creeper. Hey, man. Hey, calm down, please don't- Beach creeper Oh, yep, that's yep. He's yep. He's just gone. Ocean creeper. Oh, it's just a fish guy Oh, oh jeez. Okay, and before I die to poison this is the snowy creeper. Oh, it's a yeti guy No way, man. How's it going? Look at you. I like that some of our passive and some of them aren't this guy feels like he shouldn't be All right. Oh, he died. He he dropped fish. Woah, there's different types. Oh, that's cool. These guys are cool What do they do when i'm in the water? Are they just like puffer fish? They're very wow Wow! Naturally you can find these creepers spawning in their natural habitats, please help. Hello cave creeper. How are you? Not well, I see. Aha yes just as I expected the dripstone creeper i'm gonna die Oh good. That went quite smoothly. Ow. Needless to say very cool big fan You know, it's big and not a not a fan. I assume. I mean I I assume it's not subscribed. Um But you could be subscribed. Hey, you should subscribe. You should do that. Oh, this is my forehead It's the mutant creeper. Ow immediately attack. What is happening? Oh, oh jeez run. I gotta run I gotta go the mutant creeper terrifying. This guy is the ultimate creeper He not only explodes but he explodes more than once. I really gotta gear up for this. Hold on. Here we go All right, buddy. I'm taking you down. There's nothing you can do about it. I guess there is something you can do about it Oh jeez he has such a long reach. Come on buddy. Come on. I take any sort of Oh my gosh. Oh jeez Please don't destroy my house. No Oh jeez Run away I'm just gonna shoot you from a distance. There's nothing you can do when you're in the water. Yes Oh jeez, that's you can do that in the water. Uh, oh. Oh wait, what what is he doing? What is he doing? No, no, no. Oh hearts. What was the what was the hearts there? Does he like- He doesn't he doesn't love me I don't know anything about this guy. So we're just kind of going in blind. I don't have anything to get out of water Oh jeez. Okay. All right swim and now he's stuck in the water. You can't do anything. What are you doing? Please don't please don't do anything that looks dangerous. Okay, I guess we're fine. I guess we're fine. I guess we're fine No, no, what is that? What he's drawing me in? No Well, at least it was in the water and my house is a okay. Oh Oh, maybe not. Oh, well, that was fun Let me know in the comments which creeper was your favorite and we might do something like this again in the meantime though I'm exhausted. What is happening in here? Oh great Say hi to me in the comments! Man if I had known that this is how I would have gone out I think I don't think I would have become an agent. I want to be a youtuber