Breaking news at this moment, Trump doubling down on Matt Gaetz as his pick for attorney general. Mr. President, are you reconsidering the nomination of Matt Gaetz? No. That comes as we are learning tonight, the confidential files, including a deposition with a woman who says she had sex with Gates when she was 17 years old have been breached. Gates, meanwhile, is working the phones on his own behalf, trying to get senators to commit to backing him for attorney general. Maharaj, who is OUTFRONT on Capitol Hill, speaking to all of those senators and Trump tonight. Manu standing by Gates tonight, though, more GOP senators are calling for the release of that House Ethics Committee report, which will be crucial. And, you know, we know this. It's got a lot of damning information in it. Yeah, a potential clash is brewing between the House and the Senate. Republicans. In fact, the incoming Republican chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, which will consider this nomination. Chuck Grassley, told me that if they do not receive this report, it could slow down the consideration of this nomination, even as Mike Johnson, the speaker of the House, is defending his decision to call on the House Ethics Committee to withhold that report, contending that former members like Matt Gaetz, who abruptly resigned last week, should not be subjected to these ethics reports that come out in the public, even though there have been instances where former members have seen their ethics reports come out. Now, I asked senators about that argument from Mike Johnson. And some senators, including Mike Rounds of South Dakota, pushed back. I think if there is an ethics report out there that is being or that has been completed, then I think the Senate is going to want to see it. It may very well speed up the vetting process. On the other hand, if it's not available and we have to recreate it ourselves, that would delay our ability to make a decision on a very critical nominee. If he were to recess, appoint any of these nominees who were rejected by the Senate, I think a recess appointment is going to be very challenging. And that last point could become critical because Donald Trump has called on these appointments to be installed via a recess appointment, essentially bypassing the Senate altogether. But you could hear there some pushback there. And Aaron Gates behind the scenes is trying to lock down support. He's been calling individual Republican senators. And tomorrow, J.D. Vance, the vice president elect, will be on Capitol Hill with Gates meeting with some senators as they try to lock down support and reassure them over their concerns. But unclear, Aaron, if this House ethics report will become public. That panel meeting behind closed doors tomorrow to decide how to proceed. We're getting new information about very confidential files that were breached, including a deposition with a woman who says she had sex with Gates when she was 17 years old. CNN's chief legal affairs correspondent Paula Reid, is working the story for us. What are you learning, Paula? Well, Wolf, yesterday we reported on this civil litigation down in Florida. This is a lawsuit brought by a friend of former Congressman Matt Gaetz. And as a result of this lawsuit, they discussed really they through the discovery process, they created this whole new trove of evidence, including depositions with, as you just noted, the woman who says she was just 17 when she had sex with Gates, as well as other women who were at the party when this alleged encounter took place. They've created this evidence that sources tell us the House Ethics Committee has used in its probe. We've been told that the Ethics Committee has really looked at this lawsuit as a roadmap in terms of who to talk to and what kind of evidence they can gather. And we have learned that some of the records in this case, they are confidential, including that deposition with a 17 year old girl that is under seal. It's only available to the lawyers involved in the case. And this confidential records, they are stored in a secure online document sharing system. And we've learned that lawyers in the case were notified by another lawyer yesterday that that secure online system was accessed by an unknown third party who had access to that sensitive material That, again, we believe is similar to what could be in the House ethics report. Now, we asked at least one of the lawyers if they had notified authorities about this third party breach, but we haven't gotten a comment. And of course, this development comes as the House Ethics Committee is going to meet tomorrow to discuss that report. So unclear, though, if that report will be released Wolf. All right, Paula Reid reporting. Paula, thank you very much. President elect Trump was asked about the controversy surrounding Matt Gaetz just a little while ago and he doubled down, insisting he is not reconsidering his choice for attorney general. But concerns are clearly mounting right now up on Capitol Hill. CNN's chief congressional correspondent Manu Raju is following all of this for us. Manu Gates is now calling Republican senators, asking them to, quote, give him a shot. He is, in fact, doing that. And tomorrow, Gates is expected to be on Capitol Hill with the vice president elect, J.D. Vance, meeting with some key senators on the Senate Judiciary Committee, trying to lock down support. But there are growing number of Republican senators who want to see that House ethics report that goes into allegations of sexual misconduct with Matt Gaetz, one which Gates has denied, including some Republicans who can weigh whether they would vote for him or not or have raised serious concerns, like Senator Lisa murkowski. I would like to see our committees do their full job. I don't I'm not interested in a process that would just say, well, because the president has named him and you have Republican chairs coming into the new Congress, we just move people out there needs to be legitimate vetting. So when I say legitimate, I mean just throw vetting that the committees do. This is our job. But don't be sexual misconduct allegations, including sex with a minor. Give you pause. Well, this is what I mean. I mean, this is the right response to that money was we can either play the hearsay game where it's drip, drip, drip. This person said that, this person said that. Or we can say we're going to move forward with the confirmation process or we're going to allow him to address all of this and lay out his vision for the department and sexual misconduct or statutory rape. In the case of of in the case of Matt Gaetz, is disqualifying. And of course, Gaetz has denied those allegations. But tomorrow, Wolf, the House Ethics Committee will meet behind closed doors and to when they weigh how to proceed with this report. If a majority of that ten member committee votes to release it, that could become public. But, Wolf, that would require one Republican to join with Democrats. It's unclear if that will happen. And then whether what they'll report will come and see the light of day remains an open question, even as GOP senators demand it Wolf. All right, Manu Raju up on Capitol Hill, thank you very much. I want to get some reaction now from our political experts who are standing by. Ana Navarro, let me start with you. Trump says he's not reconsidering Gates for attorney general, even as he's privately acknowledging the odds of his confirmation by the Senate aren't good. What do you think is going on here? I actually believe that, you know, there's there's people who think that Matt Gaetz is being used as a sacrificial lamb by Trump so that he can get all his other appointees. So I don't believe but I think that Donald Trump feels himself in this invincible with the when he had with a Republican Congress where the Supreme Court has given him basically immunity, I think he feels he has no guardrails. I think he feels these Republican senators owe him that they wouldn't be in the majority but for him and that they're going to make it happen for him. Also, we know that Donald Trump is not a person who admits mistakes, is not a person who has regrets or apologizes. He doubles down and he tries to get things, ram things through. Look, I remember when Kimba Woods and Zoe Baird, attorney general, appointees of Bill Clinton, had to withdraw because of issues with a nanny. I remember when Neera Tanden, who was an appointee of Joe Biden's, had to withdraw because she had written some pithy, controversial tweets. These are a whole bunch of different standards or lack thereof when it comes to Donald Trump appointees. Right. It's not just Gates. It's Gates. It's headset. It's RFK, It's Tulsi Gabbard. Now, pick one that you're going to battle with. Let me get Scott Jennings into this conversation. Scott, Trump is working the phone himself for Gates, calling senators. Is it good for the GOP for Trump to spend his political capital forcing senators to vote for someone accused of paying a minor for sex? Yeah, great question. And obviously there's going to be tremendous resistance to Gates. And I don't know how successful Donald Trump is going to be at this. I mean, this goes beyond just the handful of senators who normally have problems with Donald Trump or who have feuded with him over issues in the past. I think the resistance to Gates goes into people who would say they strongly support Donald Trump but have serious concerns about this. So we'll see if he sticks with it. You know, there's still a lot of time between now and the next Congress convening and at some point, you know, when you're the president and you've got a nominee for anything, you have to ask yourself, do I want to suffer a defeat? Most people don't get defeated. They just withdraw from the process. It is obvious that all this information that's coming out about Gates, whether the House Ethics Committee acts to release their report or not, is going to find its way into the hands of the Senate. They're going to, I think I saw John Cornyn say tonight that they can just re-interview all the same witnesses that interviewed with the Ethics Committee. So I think of all the nominees that are sitting up there right now, I'd just put Gates in a separate category. There's more resistance to him than anybody else and obviously more issues coming out by the day. Bakari Sellers is with us as well. Bakari. Elon Musk is also weighing in on this posting on X that Gates says, and I'm quoting him now, a spine of steel and an ax to grind, end quote, adding, and I'm quoting once again, Gates will be our hammer of justice. Is that the role of the attorney general, you think, to be a hammer with an ax to grind? It's definitely not when you are a chief judicial officer and the person who is supposed to administer justice fairly and freely and without any intrusion or interference from other branches of government. Elon Musk has his thumb on the scale of government far too much. I mean, I think that his his input, I think his impact, I think that the transactional nature of both the organization that he and Vivek Ramaswamy are supposed to lead, as well as the fact that he has just been feeding off of the United States government throughout most of his career to build his businesses. He's a brilliant man, but his impact and impact on this government, I believe, will find to be wrought with with conflicts of interest. But I think this got in on it. We're both very, very correct. I mean, I don't necessarily care for Kristi Noem's politics, and I think we can have a robust discussion about policy, etc.. But she's somebody who probably needs to be voted in. I mean, you look at him at odds over science. I mean, you don't you don't necessarily care for the campaign he ran or maybe you have disagreements over politics, but you have the president gets to choose their cabinet. But when you come to people like Hesketh, when you come to people like Tulsi Gabbard, when you come to people like Matt Gaetz and you have these sincere and serious care laws that lead into something else, I think the country has to take a pause. And I'm glad that the Senate, all of them, including Republicans, are taking that role seriously. And as Bakari just mentioned, Trump is naming another TV host to his administration, naming Dr. Mehmet Oz to lead the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, which impacts millions of Americans who rely on Medicare and Medicaid. Is he qualified, do you believe, for that role? Look, that's a that's a role that's an answer that has to be found out by the members of the Senate. Certainly, there's concerns and there's concerns that should be asked about. Right. His quackery, his misinformation during the beginning part of COVID 19, some of his financial interests. So, look, if Donald Trump wants to fill his cabinet with TV people, that's up to him. But they they need to be qualified and that is up to the Senate. Scott, how do you see it? Yeah, Dr. Oz, I think is likely to make it because principally I've already read tonight that both of his home state senators who he ran against, by the way, a senator elect, Dave McCormick, has thrown his support behind him. And even John Fetterman has already said as long as he is committed to protecting Social Security and Medicare, I think we need to give him a chance. So when you have the support of your home state senators, two guys from two different parties that you've run against, I think that bodes well for your nomination. Normally, the person who takes this job really, really loves spreadsheets. And it's true. Dr. Oz is a TV person, but he's also a very celebrated and very decorated surgeon. And so I think he obviously has an interest in public service. That's why he ran for the Senate in the first place. The fact that he wants to do this, I think, is a good thing because we do need to attract people into government who have a sincere interest in public service and the fact that his former opponents are for him. I love that tonight. So I think I think this is a good nomination. And of course, he'll have to go through the same hearings. But this is going to work out, hopefully for President Trump. Tomorrow, the House Ethics Committee is expected to discuss the fate of its report on Matt. Matt Gaetz, the former Florida congressman who's both accused of having sex with a minor, and Donald Trump's choice for attorney general of the United States. Donald Trump shows no sign of changing his mind as we first reported last night. He's calling Senators will have to vote on the nomination, including North Dakota's Kevin Cramer, standing there next to Elon Musk at today's Space X launch in Texas. The president elect was asked about Gates just a few minutes later. Mr. President, are you reconsidering the nomination of Matt Gates? No. How far are you willing to go to get him confirmed? As you saw, he didn't answer that. As for Gates himself. CNN has learned that he's also been calling senators and will be visiting with some on the Hill tomorrow. At the same time, some of the confidential material used by the Ethics Committee may be out in the wild somewhere. Multiple sources tell us that someone gained unauthorized access to several documents, including a deposition with a woman who says she had sex with Gates when she was 17 years old. And tonight, the lawyer for two accuser sat down with CNN's Erin BURNETT. Joel Leppard told his clients, told the Ethics Committee that Gates paid his clients about $10,000 for sex over two years and that their allegations, he believed, represent only a fraction of what the committee has learned. You have to understand that my clients are only two out of the over a dozen witnesses that testified. I was present for two of those. And so what I'm telling you is just a fraction of the evidence that's available. Of the thousands of documents, the and the 25 subpoenas, 12 witnesses. So that's and I guess that's the crucial part of this. The House Ethics Committee is scheduled to make its decision on releasing their full report. Do you think the allegations you're talking about here in detailing which have to do with your two clients are a large chunk of their report, or do you think that this is the tip of the iceberg? Well, I do think that's probably the tip of the iceberg. Again, the president elect is standing by Gates. So is Elon Musk, who posted this about him on social media. Quoting now, Matt Gates has three critical assets that are needed for the ag role a big brain, a spine of steel and an ax to grind. He is the Judge Dredd American needs to clean up a corrupt system and put powerful, bad actors in prison. Gates, he concludes, will be our hammer of justice, which may sound like the name of a pro wrestler. But Linda McMahon, who co-founded what would become the WWE wrestling Empire, is actually expected to be tapped to become the next secretary of education. And once again tonight, a lot happening both in the open and behind the scenes. Before we start things off with CNN's Kaitlan Collins, anchor of The Source, the top of the hour. So, Kaitlan, we heard the president elect saying he's not second guessing his choice in that Gates. What are you hearing about what's going on behind the scenes? Well, yeah, Anderson. I mean, he's not until he is that's kind of how things work in Trump's orbit, where he'll stand by someone. We've seen this before. But that doesn't necessarily mean that that won't always be the case. Right now, it is certainly the case behind the scenes. We've been talking to Trump's allies and advisers all day about this and what this is going to look like. And right now, the president elect is willing to use his political capital to stand by his pick for the attorney general. He wants to see him confirmed. He has doubted his chances of actually getting confirmed because, I mean, he's being told the truth by his advisers as they've been having conversations with Republicans on Capitol Hill. But right now, Anderson, they are standing behind him. We're seeing Senator J.D. Vance, who is the vice president elect, to go up with Matt Gaetz and these other nominees to Capitol Hill. In the coming days. They're going to be trying to meet with these Republican senators and trying to convince them to at least give them a chance to to consider this nomination, to not be opposed to it right away. But that comes as we're also seeing more Republican senators come out and say this idea of a recess appointment or sidestepping the Senate confirmation process and having that confirmation hearing is just not going to work with them. Thom Tillis just said that a few moments ago to reporters on Capitol Hill, saying that he doesn't believe anyone should want to be confirmed in a high profile position by recess and that the Senate should not get rid of its one responsibility here in terms of vetting these nominees to do so. So I think that's really the question here is not necessarily whether Trump is standing by him. It's whether the Senate Republicans are going to be willing enough to vote for him. And we've heard some skeptical voices at Mar a Lago tonight about whether or not that's going to happen. They have a very clear eyed view, Anderson, of how this is all shaping out right now. Is the Trump team expecting any pushback on the choices of Mehmet Oz to run Medicare and or oversee Medicare and Medicaid? And Linda McMahon to run the Department of Education? I we've heard from some of them who say, you know, when you look at the slate of picks here, because there are these more controversial nominees that are getting all of the attention right now, it could help the others sail through. I mean, these are some of these nominees who four years ago or eight years ago, Anderson, would not have had an easy confirmation process. I mean, Trump making his personal attorney, naming him as a deputy attorney general, would have been considered controversial a few months ago or a few weeks ago. But now, given how these dynamics have shaken out, he has shifted the spectrum here and where these seven or eight senators are operating from and what they're looking at with men that eyes, of course, he ran for Senate unsuccessfully in 2022, but he is being tapped to lead a very powerful agency and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. I mean, it insures about 150 million Americans and it operates under the tent of HHS, which, of course, Trump is nominated or a junior to run. So if both of those individuals get confirmed, they would be the leading figures within that department. And I think that is going to be how you're seeing senators look at this, because they are deeply familiar with Maimonides, not just because he tried to join that body a few years ago, but he was actually called to a Senate panel about a decade ago, Anderson, where he was grilled by senators on on his promotion of weight loss drugs that were not proven to work using his his TV personality. And so they're looking at all of that right now. But, Anderson, it's moving very quickly here as they're trying to finish these other positions. I should note, J.D. Vance has confirmed last night he and Trump were looking and interviewing potential candidates to be the FBI director. That is the clearest signal yet that Trump plans to fire Chris Wray, who still has three years left of his ten year term that Trump appointed up to now. Kaitlan Collins, thanks very much. We'll see you on the source at the top of the hour. We'll have more on Dr. Oz in shortly. But first, Gates the Gates pick and how far the president elect may be willing to go for it. Joining us, Republican strategist for Michael Singleton, former Pennsylvania Republican Congressman Charlie Dent and journalist Gretchen Carlson, co-founder of the organization Lift Our Voices. I mean, Gretchen, given the kind of drip, drip on this so far and who knows if this thing has been hacked, what may come out? How far do you think the president will go to keep it? Yeah, look, I think the headline in this whole story is being vastly undersold. It's interesting to me that three of Trump's top three picks have sexual misconduct allegations against them. You know, as an advocate for women and girls on these issues and on behalf of so many women, we find it highly offensive that that's not an automatic disqualifier. Off the bat, and the idea that that can just be brushed aside and never mentioned and that Matt Gaetz is going to be a hammer for justice. Well, that's why releasing this report is so important. There are survivors of sexual misconduct in Congress. So I'm hoping that they have a conscience along with other people. You know, you have Senators Grassley and Cornyn, Republicans on Senate Judiciary, which is responsible for investigating these appointees or nominations. They're asking for the House Ethics report to be released. And if it's not tomorrow, look, there are other ways this could happen. It could be leaked and it could also be shared in secret. Over at the House of the senators. Just went over to look at it. Congressman, do you think if the House ethics chair ever you were the former House ethics, or do you think the committee's meeting proceed as scheduled tomorrow, that the GAGE report will be released? And we should remind people the Ethics Committee is is pretty unique. It's evenly split between Republicans and Democrats. Well, hard to say what the committee will do. I don't think the speaker did. My guess my guess, the chairman of the committee, who's a good man, put him in a tough spot. But look, this this report, I believe, does need to be released. Ordinarily, when a member of Congress is resigns because of a scandal, they usually go away quietly. They go about the business of reconstructing their lives. They have relationships with family members and their reputations. They don't get elevated to the attorney general, The United States, the top law enforcement officer of the country. And we have, as Gretchen pointed out, the United States Senate as part of their official record and official duties in this confirmation process. Want to see this report before they vote on this really important position. So, Congressman, you do know you are referring to a time when there was shame. Well, yeah, I understand that innocent, but but still, look, Matt Gaetz, there are ways to get this report out if the committee chooses not to send it out. A member can go to the floor of the House and make a motion, essentially to have it released from the committee. And then there would be there would be a vote of the full House. And given the fact that Matt Gaetz doesn't have a whole lot of friends in the House of Representatives, I suspect that motion would pass overwhelmingly. So I think it would behoove everybody if they just simply released it. I was chairman of the committee. There's plenty of precedent for releasing reports of former members, one for sexual misconduct in 1990. The individual was involved with a sex with a 16 year old, and the report was released after he resigned. And there are other cases like that. So I don't understand what the big pluses. Sure, Michael. I mean, Elon Musk is saying it's great that Gates has a, quote, ax to grind. I mean, is that a great quality to have in an attorney general? Well, look, I think the president elect has been pretty clear about what he expects out of many of the individuals he's appointed, and that is to completely shake up many of these agencies, particularly the Department of Justice, based on his experience with his legal experiences, that is. And he's pretty been pretty clear that he believes federal prosecutors have too much influence, too much power, and a significant amount of discretion that he would like to see change or limited. And I think a lot of Americans would probably agree with that. As a political strategist, however, I'm looking at this from two different perspectives, if you will. But you think a lot of Americans would agree that it's good to have an ax to grind. I think a lot of Americans would agree that the Department of Justice needs to radically be changed, Anderson. I mean, I think if you found yourself prosecuted on trumped up charges, let's say you're not a wealthy individual or a powerful individual such as the president elect, you would probably look at the criminal justice system and say, this system does not work for the vast majority of people, particularly if you're poor. That's my point. Do you but do you think what do you think Gates is being sent there to cure the ills of the criminal justice system as it relates to people who are underserved and can't afford attorneys, which is certainly a valid point that, yes, obviously, you know, if you have a you can afford an attorney, you have a better chance. Somebody gets a public defender who are overworked and understaffed. But I don't think that's what he's aiming to do. Do you? Well, I think the president elect's premise is pretty clear on this point. Radically transform it, shake up the agency. And I think a part of shaking up the agency would be indeed limiting the power of some of those federal prosecutors who have a significant amount of power which oftentimes go unchecked. And so we could argue whether or not Gates or someone else is the best person to move forward with that agenda. But I think the premise of the agenda remains consistent, whether it's Gates or ultimately someone else who's confirmed by the U.S. Senate. Congressman, just to respond to that, I mean, as somebody who served is an ax to grind, a quality. You want an attorney general? No, absolutely not. In fact, you want an attorney general who is going to exercise measured judgment and discretion. You know, this is these are really this is a really powerful position. And you need somebody there who's who's not going there to torch the place to burn it down. I mean, Usher, the Department of Justice needs reform like so many of our departments do. But we have people there who just can't have somebody in there who does have an ax to grind and wants to destroy the place. I mean, they're upset about what the Trump is being prosecuted over his handling of classified documents. Had I done that, I'd have been taken out in handcuffs as a member of Congress. I mean, that's what I'm trying to understand. I mean, what's what's the problem here? Gretchen it does seem for, you know, obviously the former the former president, now the president elect has railed about the weaponization of the FBI, the Department of Justice. I mean, setting up Matt Gates to be the attorney general with an ax to grind. I mean, that that is a weapon that serves right into Trump's dialog about what he was going to do. Right. And we've said from the start, at least I have that I believe everything he says. He said, we're going to get rid of the enemy within. And he feels he was wrongly accused and prosecuted and he's somehow convinced a heck of a lot of voters that that was the case. So I guess he's looking at this like an eye for an eye. He's going to put somebody in there and get his justice. But I still go back to what I said earlier, that we should be discussing what disqualifies Gates from the beginning, which is this sexual misconduct charge potentially. And the report should be released. And should. Michael, I mean, if the Gates nomination does get pulled or he's defeated in the Senate, is there a political cost the president elect, I mean, doesn't really I guess in the past there might have been, but it doesn't seem like there would be with this. Do you think so? No, I don't think so. I mean, look, Kaitlan Collins, at the top of the show advised or reported how many of the advisers, I should say, have advised the president elect on how this may go? He's clearly standing behind Gates as it currently stands. He has the political capital and the momentum, I would argue, to do so. But they're also advising president elect there's a good chance that this may not move forward the way we want. I'm almost certain if they're good advisors and many of them absolutely are, they're experienced political practitioners. They're likely already looking at other individuals to present to the president elect to say, hey, here's some alternatives in case we do lose this battle. That's what a good adviser should do. But if the president elect to send, hey, this is my guy, I want to stand by him, at least for now, then those advisers, their job is to make those calls to those Republican senators and attempt to articulate the president elect's case. And if those staffers are saying, well, we hear you, but this is what our bosses are saying in the Senate, then they're going to report that news back to the president, ultimately say, Mr. President, here are our options here. What decision do you want to make?