For local business trying to get their Google business profile is I want to show you why. This is a quick example of what it looks On the very top we have sponsored. This used to be called ads. But Google really wants more So now they're called sponsored. Google's parent company, Alphabet, from you clicking on those ads. Now, roughly 5 to 10 percent of the click on one of those sponsored results. Below those sponsored 60 70 percent of the searchers one of those three map results. And those are not your website. Those are your Google business profile. Below the map, we have 20 30 percent of the searchers And those actually are your website. So that is the organic results. two to three times the traffic. The customers will go to your map result. Then we'll find your organic website. My name is Caiulb Hulku. I started an SEO agency in 2016 and grew And recently. We've pivoted to what I'm So this video is going to be a complete on how you can use AI to set up and I'm also going to tell you how you can synergized with your Google Business which is highly, highly important, Now, personally, I've helped their own successful SEO agencies. And this video is based on So before I dive in, I just want to after local ranking so you can see regular basis and knows exactly what's Okay, so this first one is West Columbia. Before and after. Next we have Concord, And the third and final one I'm going to All three of these happen within methods I'm going to show you here. If you need any help with these, with The way the Google Business calls it a blended algorithm. It's based both on your website As well In addition to that, one of the the distance from the searcher to the So if you walked into a plumber's plumber, you'd probably find that The goal is The goal here is to improve and farther away from the business You show up for more and That's why, for local searches, you earlier so we can see how And the way we do that, improve rank work to build more trust with Google. And that allows us to outrank if those other GBPs are closer. We also want to make sure the Google way, so Google knows what types of Alright, so the first step that your Google Business Profile. Now, back in the halcyon days We thought it was hard at the Easy. Okay. And we called it a Google My They changed that name. All we had to do back then was address, business phone number. Google mailed us a postcard, we We were verified. Now in the last. 12 months or so, almost every that I've created for clients has On top of that video verification, approved if there's online evidence Google wants to see that business So the first thing we're going to do Profile is make sure Google can see So, your first step, search The business name that you're going And if there are no results we need to create results. We need to get that on the interwebs. So, you'll want to buy a domain Niche city, such as Plummer Houston, You could also use the business name, Go ahead and do local citations, that matches the business name. Your business name, I should have the name of the formal business formation bill, Or, ideally, all of the above. It needs to have some sort of paperwork So do the press release, do the Go ahead, if you're not sure or citations, my favorite source Go ahead and create a website Talk about the service, what you do. Don't worry about it too much, this just so that when Google crawls it. it sees that it exists. Go ahead and order a car magnet, domain, a yard sign, and finally, wait. About 30 days is what I found is enough but keep in mind that Google generally So we want to wait. We want to let all of the press website, we want all of this age Then we're going to do the there are two steps to that. The first one, Google's automated And then the second step, Google will not it's a real business and to verify it. Now, after doing hundreds of these, we've also included a sample video verification If you're interested in it. I have a link in the It's no charge at all. Go ahead and grab it. It's just a lot more in depth than I Okay. So once you have your Google business go ahead and start filling it out. And the first place we're Okay. And we want a lot of services. We want like 20 to 30 different services. And if you can't think ChatGPT can help you. In fact, here's the prompt that generate services for your niche. You are a local SEO expert. What services should be added to a Google installation company in Houston, Texas? Please be specific and list at least additional ones that are highly relevant. Each service should be a specific Also, include variations of services commonly searched for by target customers. Okay, then you'll get your Check through it, make sure it makes them to the Google Business Profile. Now we're going to add categories. There's a good reason We want four or five categories minimum. Most business owners only add one Google allows you to have five, so So for those categories, it can be So again, here's a prompt for ChatGPT Thanks. You are a local SEO expert. What additional categories should their Google business profile? Here are 20 services that And again, we wanted to add the match the services with categories, Okay, so now we have services, we have And of course, the place that we're going So here's the prompt to get You are an expert in local Business Profile rank position. Please write a Google Business Profile and service company in Houston, Texas, This business has been serving local unique selling proposition is a five Clearly change how long they've been in proposition to match you or your clients. Okay, so let's talk about I've heard from a lot of SEOs anything, don't prove rank position. And honestly, maybe they're But, it only takes a half hour of Google Business Profile Posts. And things that only take a half It also only needs to be done one time. Not worth split testing something And ChatGPT can write Combine that with a tool like them out very easily forever. So write a dozen, maybe twenty, GBP week, and after you run out, Your 21st the first post before you post the 21st, Just do it, and then it's done And it's the same thing We know that Google removes the data don't know if Google uses that data that that data might impact ranking. Maybe it does, and maybe it doesn't. But, just like the GBP posts Geotagging geotag them before you upload them. Now, all of your photos, you should get them from the business itself. Okay, and if you can't, for whatever itself, AI generated is a very, Much worse than business generated. But stock images are a no no. Do not use stock images, Google knows that So geotag them, and then with a tool like GoHighLevel. You can schedule those photos to depending on how many you have. If you're interested in checking for a 14 day free trial in the Okay, so from a review standpoint, I've are not very important to ranking a GVP. And I stand by that. If we take another look at that Plumber beginning, there's a massive range in from over 3, 000 reviews to just 150. More than that, if you hit show dozen plumbers that have over 500 three, even though there are a couple 150 is still a lot of reviews, Houston, highly, highly competitive. So that's my point. Now, the difference is once you are very important to build trust with your business profile instead of So reviews are important, just what a lot of other people say. And by far, when it comes time to get ever used is to give the business with a direct review link for the GBP. And ask that business owner it to prior customers of his. That request coming from his phone, the ask, the response rate is massive. It works really, really well. to get solid reviews. Other methods can also work, but The second best one that I've used is to When you set up the automation, link click on the GBP review link. Then create maybe half a dozen or so and send it over a period of three We don't want to spam our customers. The automation will stop when when someone You know, they've No problem. This has maybe a 10 to 15 percent success or 70 percent text rate if the business we want to make sure that your google big sign for this is the holiday hours. Okay, you can't fill up holiday hours you do it for a few months in advance. So give yourself a calendar So you go in and you fill out all You want to show Google And when reviews do come in, every single of you that's left. Go high level can do this with or you can do it yourself. Try to work in services or other You also need to respond to It doesn't matter if you reject them or Okay? Also, there's a lot of little boxes You need to fill out If you have any trouble thinking of It will help, but every single So, let's talk about being responsive. Gbp messaging is a way that a customer Google business profile, but you I have seen negative rank impacts So if you or your client, if you're not Gbp messaging, you can simply turn it off. I don't recommend turning it off are using GBP messaging to text If you can't respond or don't want automatically respond to GBP messages for you and your client a text message or come in, so you can go in and respond A massive help. To trust in ranking if you And honestly, it's the same I have seen negative rank impacts And this is clear why Google wants a good user experience. And if a user searches for something, The user calls that business That's a bad user experience. So you always, always Okay. And stay on the phone You can just hang up if it's a marketing Okay. All right. So let's talk about the website synergizes with the GBP services and This is a big deal to Crawls your website and sees things your GVP talks about. So, I'm going to give you a prompt. Uh, it'll work really well if you're Okay, if you're a plumber in Houston, But in a low or medium competition space, all of the categories as an H2 tag. And then, underneath that h2 tag can talk about the service that's Here's the chat GPT prompt that homepage content with that focus. So the first thing, grab all the you homepage content for a website Business Profile for HVAC Houston. The Google Business Profile HVAC Contractor 2. Air Conditioning Contractor 3. Heating Contractor 4. Heating Equipment Supplier 5. Air Quality Consultant Please rewrite this keywords for each category as H2 tags. When you provide the content back, so I can quickly evaluate your edits. Under each H2, a single relevant a paragraph about how that service The services provided by the client 20 services that you have, I'm So with that prompt, ChatGPT is going matches the business categories and Hugely important to create that that the information on your website Now, if you're in a high competition all of this on the home page. In a high competition space, what you'll page for each of the GBP categories. You'll internally link those The H1 and title tag for those service and the H2 should be the service The URL slug should also The prompt I just gave you, you write those service pages. And again, as always, use a Your human editor is focused on two Number one, fact checking. AI tends to hallucinate, which is things up, so you need to make sure And number two, AI is typically human editor to add uniqueness. Now if you're not sure whether it like you're high competition, I know it's a lot more content, but AI is just a lot less expensive now than spend a lot of time evaluating whether Now we just treat almost everything All right. This was a lot, there's a lot I hope you found this video GVP and website for local search. Your ideal new client have had a website they've just been struggling to rank. Applying these methods is going top three in just a few months. I mean, unless they're in Houston or what we did to those three new clients I And as you know, there is massive one of the top three positions. If you're interested in more agency, please give me a subscribe. I publish videos all the time Give me a comment or a like if If you you, and don't forget to check out the to recording the GBP verification video.