Oh say, can you see By the dawn's early light, What so proudly we hailed At the twilight's last gleaming Whose broad stripes and bright stars, Through the perilous fight Over the ramparts we watched, Were so gallantly streaming. And the rockets red glare, The bombs bursting in air, Gave proof through the night That our flag was still there. Oh, say, does-- - I pity a country that The synergy with air, land, and sea forces and our ability to and seize the high ground is devastating. All countries respect the and they respect how dominant And we get better and better and better. (drums pounding) - Tonight to ten, a rare glimpse of China's in one of the world's We report from the South China Sea, where the Chinese are warning off anyone who comes too close to - We continue our look this morning at what China does not want you to see. The United States says the superpower is reclaiming land in the South China Sea. - The fact that we're dealing where we, the US, has to in dealing with the Chinese government. - CNN has learned that the US Navy is about to send a destroyer there. Let's go to our CNN chief-- - [Announcer] CNN got US surveillance flights over the islands. - [John Narrating] The threat The media is beating the drums of war as the world is being as a new enemy. - [Announcer] China's alarming creation of entirely new territory is one part of a broader military push that some fear is to challenge - [John Narrating] China in the South China Sea on disputed islands condemned by an international tribunal. This is now a flashpoint for war between China and America. What is not news is that These American bases form a giant noose, encircling China with All the way from Australia to Asia, and beyond. - If you were in Beijing looking out, you stood on the tallest and looked out at the Pacific Ocean, you'd see American warships. You'd see Guam is about to sink because there's so many You'd look up at Korea and see American armaments pointing at China. You'd see Japan, which is basically, Japan's a glove over the American fist. I think if I was Chinese, I'd about American aggressiveness. - And we have China surrounded and we're doing more keep it surrounded and deepen But China presents a fascinating case of a country that is independent, doesn't have foreign growing very rapidly, not as rapidly now as it did for 30 years, but still the second-ranking - We have an adversary and that adversary is unless there is dramatic will be our enemy someday. - One myth I think really is that somehow China's and gonna run the world. (laughs) First of all, the Chinese The West, with its Christian roots, are about converting other The Chinese are not about that. Again, I'm not degrading I'm just pointing out the inherent nature, the DNA's of two different cultures. The Chinese 2000 years to keep the barbarians - [John Narrating] As the moves rapidly to Asia, the is to deploy the majority and the Pacific. This massive military buildup the &quot;Pivot to Asia.&quot; The target is China. The great power game in the 21st century is called perpetual war. For America's unchallenged arms industry, the annual prize is huge profits from almost 600 billion - [Announcer] Once an the electromagnetic gun is now reality. - You're sitting here thinking about these next-generation and futuristic ideas and we've got scientists and it's coming to life. - [John Narrating] And the - As a Pacific nation, the United States will play a larger and long-term role in shaping this region and its future. I have directed my national security team to make our presence and a top priority. - In one sense, is the US - Yes. On the ground and in the air. The winner of the Nobel Peace has committed to trillions of dollars to our nuclear arsenal. He's committing trillions to war in space and we need and China's the perfect enemy. - The aim of this film The United States and China and nuclear war is no longer unthinkable. In a few years, China second biggest economic power. The United States is the with bases and missiles and ships covering every continent, every ocean. China is a threat to this but who is the threat? This film is about shifting It's also a film about the human spirit and the rise of an extraordinary on the front line of a coming war where the words &quot;never for all of us. (somber music) - [John Narrating] This is Bikini, the rim of an ancient underwater volcano in the Marshall Islands. With its necklace of 23 islands, Bikini is a place of beauty Look closely where the Emerald Lagoon suddenly falls into a vast black hole. This is the crater of one of the greatest manmade explosions, the hydrogen bomb they call Bravo. It vaporized an entire island and poisoned almost As our plane flew low, we seemed The Marshall Islands lie between the United States and Asia. Captured from the they've long been it's stepping stone to Asia and China. (guitar music) People here sustain themselves with abundant fish, They were skilled navigators Westerners might call this paradise. All that changed in 1946 when the United States took as a Trust Territory with an obligation to protect the health and A nightmare began. The islands were turned into a laboratory for the testing of nuclear weapons and the people into guinea pigs. - Crossroads, scene 24, take two. (clicks) - [John Narrating] In the Bikini islanders are being deceived. Unknown to them, plans to destroy their paradise forever. - Will you ask King Judah that now wants to attempt to turn this great, destructive force into and that these experiments here at Bikini are the first step in that direction. (speaks foreign language) Tell them that's fine, everything being in God's (speaks foreign language) - [Announcer] 87 ships off Bikini to suffer the shattering impact of the fifth atomic bomb. - [John Narrating] An armada of warships was assembled in Bikini Lagoon in order to blow them to bits. (chain clanking) - [Announcer] The decks anchored in Bikini Lagoon are scenes of feverish activity as scientists plot experimental programs designed to furnish data on blast effects of the mighty atom bomb. Animals of many kinds-- - [John Narrating] Animals like a perverse Noah's Ark. The experiment was to see how they died, how they burned. - [Announcer] Special to determine their protective quality. Other parts of the exposed areas are being left bare to the atom blasts. - [Soldier] Three, two, one. (eerie music) - [John Narrating] Being on Bikini today is disturbing ghosts. I struggle through the where they pressed the of the H-Bomb test. Now claimed by the undergrowth, it's like a subterranean They drank Milk Maid Powdered Milk, smoked Lucky Strike Cigarettes, and later this sign was It says, &quot;Please leave this &quot;thank you for your (water drips) (jovial music) - [Announcer] The Momselles and you can just bet that audience is giving - [Male Announcer] The bikini, named after the atomic explosion in the Pacific. The bikini was an explosion everywhere. - [John Narrating] In 1946, the to celebrate the nuclear explosions that had destroyed life on Bikini Island. The inventor of the bikini, a Frenchman, made his fortune. Today a bikini body is as an object of desire and good health. The bodies of the people are the most irradiated in the world. All these women have had thyroid cancer. Today, Bikini is unfit for human life. Radiation poisons the food and water, and issues registered The abandoned cemetery looks out to where the sun rose one morning, then rose again as apocalypse. The equivalent of one Hiroshima bomb was exploded in these islands everyday for 12 years. A scarred beauty has but the people haven't. Exiled to barren islands, In 1968, President it was safe to go home. (Geiger Counter clicks) But it wasn't safe. And the US authorities - What happened as a was that a cover-up was launched very shortly after March one. There's such a history outright lies, deception. There was no attempt to take and make sure that everybody was okay. - They knew the way the And they took that risk and went ahead and detonated the bomb, knowing full well which way it was going to go. They still had an opportunity to evacuate, even on the day of the shot. But these people were not evacuated, we were not evacuated, and the people in the So that only leaves one to believe that number one, the United States to study what the effects And that's a pretty strong indication that the United States knew that. - It seems extraordinary, here we are, this far into the 21st century, talking to people still frightened of all that nuclear all those years ago. The impression I get is that there's so little trust among people. - The US is trying to provide as much information, as much good And so I wouldn't accept there've been lies and cover-ups. - The word guinea pigs comes - I would refer you to our - I've read it. - And that question was looked at during the Clinton administration and that was not the - [John Narrating] The secret is Project 4.1. Declassified documents that began as a study of mice and became a study of human - [Radio Announcer] Chicago And to the AEC Argonnne came seven men, natives Levin is from Omelek. He and the rest were irradiated by our March 19th '54 hydrogen bomb test. John is mayor of Rongelap, which is 100 miles from Bikini. John, as we said, is a savage, but a happy, amenable savage. His grandfather ran almost The white man brought money and religion and a market for his copa. John Reeds knows about God The iron room is a radiation Inside John the mayor, whose first visit to meant San Francisco cable and streamlined trains, whose first visit to meant the iron room. A savage governs his life by ritual and he understands this because he thinks of it as a new ritual. Sitting alone inside the room, outside, a strange kind of When the ritual of the iron it began for the others. As each finished, he was told it was over and he was given apples and Then he took off the ritual clothing and the seven men put on they had been lent in Hawaii which they would return in in the Marshall Islands in the - The United States government documents clearly demonstrate that its scientists conducted human radiation experiments with Marshallese citizens. Some of our people were injected with or coerced to drink fluids Other experimentation and premature resettlement of people on islands highly to study how human beings absorb radiation from their foods and environment. (guitar music) - [John Narrating] These They are part of the They're being returned to Rongelap, an island 100 miles from They were told repeatedly, This happy couple believed The man is John Anjain, The &quot;happy savage&quot; from His wife is Madura, and this They had no idea of the They are being returned to an island described by a US atomic energy official &quot;as by far the most He added, &quot;it will be &quot;of human uptake when people &quot;live in a contaminated environment.&quot; The people of Rongelap for 28 years as guinea pigs. The objects of regular, (bell rings) The islanders pleaded to move them to safety as evidence emerged of the second generation, the children were also poisoned. Desperate to leave, the islanders called on Greenpeace to rescue them. This ship, the Rainbow Warrior, moved the entire population They called it Operation Exodus. (native music) (eerie music) This is Doctor Robert Conard, a leading medical scientist of Brookhaven National Laboratories. Conard devoted his distinguished career to examining the islanders. He wrote, &quot;the habitation of &quot;will afford the most valuable &quot;on human beings. &quot;The various radio isotopes present &quot;can be traced from the &quot;and into human beings.&quot; Doctor Conard gained the when he brought the islanders he showed them the sights and had them over for a barbecue. When John Anjain's son Doctor Conard sent the a sympathy card. From your friend, Bob. In 1957, Madura Anjain was seen here on her way back to Rongelap, unaware of the danger This is Madura 28 years later, grieving the death of her son Lekage from radiation poisoning. Like her son and her husband, Madura died from a virulent cancer. - I don't see any great established by, if not certainly not by the US government. - There's a clinic downtown in Majuro. There's also a Whole Body Counter. You can have the plutonium in Anyone can, for free. - [John Narrating] This is where they'll tell you People waiting to be tested are welcomed with a video showing their islands being blown up. And this reassuring commentary. (speaks foreign language) This is Rinok, a refugee from the poisoned island of Rongelap, whose family owned land and Now she lives in a shack with her children and grandchildren. She has no water, no sanitation. - [John] And power, she has electricity? - [John Narrating] In granted limited independence on condition that they accepted a mere 150 million dollars compensation for the damage caused by nuclear testing. A claims tribunal was set up and soon ran out of money and appealed to the US Congress still awaits a reply. Darlene Keju-Johnson was who became the champion of her people after she discovered the full caused by nuclear testing that many more islands were poisoned (applause) This remarkable speech in - I bring greetings from and throughout Micronesia. We have hundreds of women We have leukemia cancers. We have thyroid cancers. We have stillborn babies. We have nowadays, I and I've talked to many women is that we have babies A baby is born on a labor table and it moves up and down like this. It's a colorful, ugly thing and it is not shaped like a human being. It moves up and down like because that thing is breathing. That is a baby. - [John Narrating] In 1982, the author of this tribute to his wife. - Darlene was one of the liveliest, most entertaining individuals that I have ever had the pleasure of knowing. She was a voice for the voiceless. - [John Narrating] Like so Darlene died of cancer, age 45. This is the largest of occupied by one of and secretive bases. Known as the Ronald Reagan Test Site, it's a missile launch pad that commands the Pacific Ocean all the (waves crash) Here, the people of the Marshall Islands are once again being of weapons of mass destruction The base is part of a remarkable plan known as Vision 2020. Devised in the 1990's, officially as full-spectrum dominance. This means control of all land, sea, air, cyberspace, and space. - [Radio] Five, four, three, two, one, ignition. - [John Narrating] From the US Air Force tests it's by firing them at the Marshall Islands. - Imagine a missile coming It's absolutely terrifying. I think that there's really that would be more terrifying than this. And we're talking about devices that any one of them could go off course. - [John Narrating] None of where small town America a wonderland of the suburban good life. - Thank you. (upbeat music) - Fabulous. There's nothing better than - I pretty much have It's great, I love it here. - [John Narrating] Just across Known as the slum of the Pacific, more than 12,000 people live here on a strip of land less than a mile long. Many of them refugees from and from islands poisoned Every day, people from Ebeye are brought to work on the missile base to water the gardens and the golf course then they are ferried This is apartheid in the Pacific. (flies buzz) - Ebeye needs a lot of things. Medicine, education, and jobs. Vegetables and fruits. - Vegetables and fruits. - Yes. - Here we are, it's a tropical island, and you need vegetables and fruits. - Yes. - [John Narrating] Fish, were once abundant on Ebeye. Today, fish is contaminated says the Environmental Protection Agency. Now the only food most people can afford is processed and imported. They have the highest rate - When someone gets really ill, do they go to the because they've got a pretty - They don't treat them with medicine. They just go there for taking - So what happens when - They cannot do anything. - The most consistent example given is the example of the and Ebeye next to it. On the Ronald Reagan Missile Site is a vivid example of the United States, golf courses and swimming pools and all kinds of amenities. Right next to it is what is - It's a challenge. Ebeye is in great need right now. We've talked about infrastructure. One of the projects the US is working with our Australian colleagues and is a sewer and water project Ebeye's overcrowded, - Actually, the US military and found that the sewers didn't work and the water didn't run and It only happened not all that long ago they found almost exactly the same thing. Why hasn't that been fixed? - There's complete agreement and not only because of of the Ronald Reagan Space but there's also now that is providing for global security and that's the Space Fence - [John Narrating] Every missile fired on the Marshall Islands by the US military costs 100 million dollars each. This derelict school bus They can't afford to replace it. - The base is not good for us, the people of Marshall Islands, - [John] It's been used to test missiles to fire at countries like China. - Yes, and anywhere else if they want to. - [John] What would you - I want our land back. (violin music) - [John Narrating] This is Shanghai, the historic port on the Yangtze River, China's greatest city. I have arranged to meet James Bradley, whose The China Mirage, reveals an of American power and modern China. - It was almost illegal to know of Chinese for almost The Chinese came to America to mine gold and build the railroads we didn't like the competition, so in 1882 we had the which kept the Chinese for about 100 years. So you have the largest that can't come to the United States, so at just the point we're putting up the Statue of Liberty we were erecting a wall saying, we welcome everybody except those Chinese. - [John Narrating] Fear is the latest chapter in that presented the Chinese To western popular and political culture, the Chinese became the Yellow Peril. (piano music) And racial stereotypes of fear and threat. - [Announcer] Boris Karloff His passion for power as he revels in the horrors of Behind the mask of Fu Manchu. - [John Narrating] This concealed another agenda: opium. For the American elite China was a goal mine of drugs. - Warren Delano, the grandfather of was the American opium king of China. He was the biggest American opium dealer second to the British. He welcomed the first to help out with the opium wars. Much of the east coast of America, Columbia, Harvard, Yale, Princeton, were born from opium money. The American Industrial Revolution was funded by huge pools of money. Where did this come from? It came from illegal drugs in the biggest market in the world: China. - Let me get this right. The grandfather of arguably Franklin Delano Roosevelt, - Yes sir. Franklin Delano Roosevelt never He had public service jobs but he had yachts, he had summer homes, he had mansions in New York City. The kids went to private schools. He inherited a fortune from who was the American opium king of China. If you scratch anyone with John Forbes Kerry, Secretary - That's the present Secretary of State. - Yes sir. You'll find opium money. His great-grandfather was an opium dealer. How big was opium money? Opium money built the in the United States, It built the first five Opium money all over the east coast, but it wasn't talked about. It was called the China Trade. And if you go to various museums, you can see teas and silks exhibited and they keep quiet about - [John Narrating] In the China was invaded and colonized by Britain and the other imperial powers. Foreign armies grabbed This is the American Peking, in 1900. Great cities like Shanghai were taken over and declared concessions and foreigners lived a life amidst terrible poverty A resistance known as the Boxer Rebellion was put down with a savagery. This rape of China set the tone for how China was perceived in the West well into the 20th century. This is the distinguished historian Theodore H. White, an speaking in the 1960's. - Perhaps China is too vast Yet if Chinese mind craves order, they must be brought to recognize they are the biggest factor And we must untangle the The most difficult task in the world is to reach the minds of men who hate you. - [John Narrating] What White was the loss of a China that the imperial West could dominate and the defeat of General Chiang Kai-Shek, who with his famously Mei-ling Soong, guarded That is, until they by a communist revolution - Mao had beaten Chiang in huge battles involving Mao was a winner in this contest from the early 1930's on, but we and people don't - [Announcer] Shanghai as foreign businessmen Go now, go quickly, for communism marches. Take what you can, but flee. In pell-mell haste, the Western powers evacuate the city they have built, for good and bad alike must leave. The businessmen come for profit as well as missionaries come to heal must say goodbye as out the Yancy steams the last of Western influence and farewell to a century. (shouting) - [John Narrating] Even today, the paranoia ignited by Mao's revolution. - As we look at China on the map, we can see that China is the basic cause of all of our troubles in Asia. - I believe that for it is necessary to be of a Chinese missile attack - [John Narrating] One is that he was an implacable (chorus singing) Shanghai today is a still run by the communists, - When I was last in China the loudest noise was the Mao had just died, the streets were dark, the universities were closed. The chaos of the cultural revolution had given way to a great silence. &quot;We're exhausted,&quot; was the Coming back, the change Here in Shanghai, the Yes, there are issues with human rights, especially the right to and challenge its power. Since I was last here, millions of people have been lifted out of poverty, many of them into an This epic is still barely or should that be willfully misunderstood? The truth is that China at its own great game of capitalism and that is unforgivable. - [John Narrating] One measure is the Hurun Rich List. This league table of China's mega-rich is published by Rupert Hoogewerf, an old Etonian whose He's received many awards, including China's Man of the Year. - This year, 2015, has probably been the most extraordinary in the history of China again. I've been doing this I've never seen a year like 2015. Normally for 200 million we find say about 800,000 people. This year, 2015, it's doubled. There'll be more dollar than in the US. So the US, up until now, has been the leader in terms of the most successful business China 2015, will have overtaken the US. So, amazing. - [John Narrating] Modern China not least this museum where Mao and his the communist party of China in 1921. Today it stands in the very capitalist shopping district. - When you leave this shrine you're confronted by a surreal spectacle. For right outside where the Chinese communist party was born, are the very symbols of capitalism. Starbucks, Apple, Cartier, and down there perhaps the bottled water that insures you live young, costing six pounds for a Would Mao spin in his tomb if he was here? I'm not so sure. Hidden history is always Five years before his great Mao sent this secret &quot;China must industrialize,&quot; wrote Mao, &quot;this can only be done by free enterprise. &quot;Chinese and American &quot;economically and politically. &quot;America need not fear that &quot;We cannot risk crossing America. &quot;We cannot risk any conflict.&quot; Mao received no reply. Nothing has changed. - Mao Zedong was looking to be a friend with the United States from the beginning. Mao says, I will go meet Franklin Roosevelt in the White House. Mao reaches out in 1950 to Harry Truman. He reaches out to Dwight Eisenhower. His hand was tossed away. - [John Narrating] This opportunity that might have changed history, prevented wars, saved countless lives, was lost because the was denied in the State Department officials were condemned unjustly - Everybody who knew Mao, In the 1950's, the State Department had no employees who spoke Chinese. It's resulted in us not having relations with the number one, most - [John Narrating] In 1979, this man, Deng Xaoping, became He said, &quot;Socialism does This was code for the most radical reform since Mao's revolution, the but this time controlled &quot;To be rich is glorious,&quot; Deng was reported as saying. America was now threatened of a vast image of itself. This is one of the many very exclusive gated communities in Shanghai where an apartment is one of the prizes of the new communism. I'd arranged to see a close aide to the late Deng Xiaoping, the man who changed China. - Deng is really, extremely with an exceedingly for his country and for his people. China is still following that path. Actually, this is really a tradition from China's long history. You look at even like Mao. He said we should surpass UK, by which we should so these tradition continues to this day. Even Xi Jinping to this day Actually, what many Chinese have problem with the Western media is If you contend with stereotypes, If BBC broadcast something, they are happy to always mention this autocracy. Actually, with this kind of label you cannot understand this China as it is. But if you watch BBC or and try to understand It's impossible. - Multiple parties fight and everyone holding on to them as the only path to salvation to the long-suffering, developing world. - [John Narrating] This is Eric Li, a Shanghai entrepreneur and typical of a new, confident, outspoken political class. - In China, there are a lot of problems. But at the moment, the has proven an extraordinary I make the joke: in America you can but you can't change the policies. In China you cannot change the party but you can change policies. In 65 or 66 years, China has yet the political changes in China these past 66 and broader and greater than probably any other major country in modern memory. - So in that time, China Is that what you're saying? - Well, China is a market economy. It's a vibrant market economy but it is not a capitalist country. Here's why. There's no way a group of billionaires could control the party bureau as billionaires control So in China, you have a but capital does not rise Capital does not have enshrined rights. In America, capital, the interest of capital and capital itself has risen above the American nation. The political authority cannot That's why America is a capitalist country but China's not. - [John Narrating] This of a best-selling book by Zhang Lijia, a journalist and critic - Many Americans imagine live a miserable, repressed That's not quite true. If you speak to many they will tell you they feel Some 500 million people and some would say probably That's a great achievement. For many Americans, the Yellow I think there's a fear about China. There's a fear of China's rapid rise, but it also has a lot to do with China's label as a communist state. - China's objectives are modest compared with their weight. They're not trying to run the world. They're not even trying I think they want to keep America from dominating the Asian-Pacific. So they have what they believe is their rightful place because of all civilizations and all the history on their side, so their objectives are really modest compared with their capacity. - The new wealth in China, they often say this is the product of self-made entrepreneurial skill but is it not also the product of the exploitation of people at the bottom, what are known in China as migrants. But they're not really - (laughs) If you really go to talk to these migrant workers, you will find quite surprisingly, over the past five to seven years, they have experienced a than any other social groups. China is not a class society. - [John Narrating] But These are the homes of migrant workers, people who build and Here it's not uncommon for three families to share one tiny flat. - You know, you associate a but unfortunately it seems China has become one of the most unequal societies in the world. The income gap is widening. Governments, I feel, the responsibilities, left but the market does not Some private companies to hire child-bearing aged women. And sometimes when women became pregnant, they would sack them. Because they don't want to And in fact, the income between men and women. - Your old boss, Deng Xaoping, presided over the bloodshed What would you say to the because so many of those did fight for what they saw as - In 1989, there were One of those were presented Their hero was Mikhail Gorbachev, who happened to be in Beijing. Their slogan was, &quot;Soviet Union's Today So the idea was political reform first, other reform second. Otherwise, China would be hopeless. Deng's message was the opposite. He thought Gorbachev was an idiot. He thought China must have other reform second. This priority must be set clear. Unfortunately, at that the two political forces That's when the tragedy occurred. - [John Narrating] It It was a massacre of which the memory remains a - Why does the Chinese The few who speak out, - Liu Xiaobo? (laughs) - [John] Exactly. This man won the Nobel Peace - He violated Chinese law by a big margin. So actually the freedom of expression, similar views are aired by many people but he really going to the extreme. - [John Narrating] Liu Xiaobo to implement democratic reforms and he spent a total - Why can't a confident China accept a criticism like that? - Nobel peace committee They owe the Chinese an explanation. If you cross a line, you you violate so many laws, (somber music) - [John Narrating] And yet in China today, the spirit of protest and dissent lives on in different forms. In 2015, strikes and community protests and activism reach record levels. This resistance is seldom - So there are lots of protests in China. Typical for example, land being grabbed by officials for commercial development and the farmers are not But the farmers now know, are more aware of their Or young workers from the factory, they demand a better wage and but many of the protests not political driven. They are regional, not nation-wide. So this kind of thing is unlikely to develop into real movement or so-called, you call that revolution. - [John] So the Mao's revolution was the last revolution? - (laughs) Well, never say never. (helicopter whirs) - [John Narrating] The is occupied by 32 military installations. From here, the United Vietnam, Cambodia, Afghanistan, Iraq. The sky is full of planes and helicopters. (helicopter whirs) Wherever people go, they are fenced in and told to keep out. Okinawa is the front with China. (people shouting) Aged 87, Fumiko Shimabukuro is one of the leaders of that's challenging (people shouting) - [John Narrating] Fumiko is a survivor. A quarter of the civilians on the island were killed in the and a fear of war has been (gentle music) Today, those who witnessed these horrors live in a place of extraordinary beauty surrounded by coral reefs It was here in Henoko Bay that the survivors of and it's this they're It's an epic struggle that against the greatest - This is the office of a Ota Masahide. What is done is create but an appeal to the outside world to understand the resistance in Okinawa, to understand the suffering, to read its hidden history. It begins in 1945 when Here's General MacArthur A second invasion happened 10 years later in what became known as the Bulldozer's and Bayonets campaign. American forces seized burned farm houses, and killed livestock. The dispossessed people of Okinawa march the length of - This wall is devoted to that never ceases. Everywhere people go on the island, they are confronted by this sign. It tells them they must not go past this fence topped with barbed wire. These fences run like great and the bases themselves But all around them are people with this continuing demonstration, this continuing resistance. And they have a message. It's: &quot;People of the World, &quot;Watch what Japan and the US are doing. &quot;Don't let them force - [John Narrating] All this will be lost when much of the bay becomes concrete runways for the huge US Marine base behind this fence. (applause) In 2014, Okinawa elected a new governor, Takeshi Onaga, who won by Stopping the new base at Henoko. This was election night at Camp Schwab. (cheering) We shall overcome We shall overcome someday Oh, deep in my heart I do believe We shall overcome someday The New Year's celebration was bittersweet. The government in Tokyo resented this unprecedented challenge to its authority. The issue is now in the Japanese courts. Japan's prime minister, Shinzo Abe, has also made clear that with the backing of his powerful patron America, he wants to reawaken Japanese nationalism and reclaim it's military power. (helicopter whirs) (drum pounds) (singing) While we were filming this on a day when people paid respect to their departed loved ones, giant American helicopters intimidating as always. The threat of these low-flying aircraft is a constant presence in Okinawa. Teachers often can't and the fear. (somber music) This was the carnage crashed into a primary school after the pilot had ejected to safety. Haru Akira, aged seven, Akira suffered throughout his youth and died from his injuries age 21. Another tragedy waits US military aircraft have been involved in 44 accidents on the island. The latest threat is this notorious for its safety issues. (dance music) Wherever the military is based in Asia, there is a relationship with local people, especially women, that In Okinawa, this resentment Scores of American GI's which were set alight. For Washington and it's it's this kind of During the making of this film, a young woman was raped and murdered, allegedly by an American from one of the bases. (chanting) It was the latest of and it brought massive demanding an end to the military occupation of their country. (aircraft rumbles) This is a Mace missile, designed to carry a nuclear warhead. During the Cold War, the United States secretly installed nuclear weapons at this launch pad in Okinawa. Most of them were aimed at China. Today, the nuclear missile site is run by a Buddhist organization, the Soka Gakkai, as a peace museum. - In 1962, the atomic weapons, that were on the missile, was almost launched. - They were almost launched? - Yeah, according to the said they were ordered to prepare. Then we received second order to stop it. - [John Narrating] One of whose job was to fire the Mace missiles has since revealed that during the Cuban missile crisis in 1962. - We were told that we had But we only had one missile and we did not see why we should have to involve The captain suggested that so it would take less if the doors were cracked open. (beeping) - [John Narrating] One of the launch crews was on the point of firing their missiles when a duty officer suspected - The officer that was on the B side was told to send two and to shoot anybody that tried to launch until the situation was resolved. And it would only take like 15, 20 seconds to run the distance between So those two men kept while we made a decision as what to do. And it wasn't very long, maybe where a very nervous major issuing the stand down order. And then we just kind of we could have exterminated The major who had given the launch order was quietly court-martialed and dismissed from the Air Force. - That morning is just as familiar to me and as clear as yesterday morning is. And this is 53 years later and how clear blue the sky was and there was just some very light clouds and there was a perfect breeze blowing at the perfect temperature. I did not know what the temperature was, but it just felt perfect. And we were all just kind of taking it in and taking in the smell of the air and the sea and the land mixture together and everything smelled so beautiful. - This is very interesting the cities in China where these Which ones do we have here? - This Okinawa Island. So within 2000 kilometers Xi'an, Jiuzhaigou, Hong Kong, Shanghai, Taiwan and Taipei, and Within the range of missile. (aircraft rumbles) (somber music) - [John Narrating] This is the work of the Okinawan sculptor, Kinjo Minoru. It's a tribute to the of the people of this island. More than 1000 miles away on these symbols of struggle The work of Korean sculptor Koh Gil-chun, represents another fight of (gentle music) A semi-tropical sanctuary Jeju Island is a world heritage site. The government of South Korea declared it an island of world peace. But on this island of peace has been built one of the most provocative less than 400 miles from Shanghai. Like Okinawa and the Marshall Islands, this is America's &quot;Pivot to Asia.&quot; Here in once unspoiled Gangjeong Village, the South Korean Navy has built a base for American aircraft carriers, nuclear submarines, and destroyers equipped with the Aegis ballistic missile aimed at China's defenses. China's lifelines to the world depend on shipping that comes through chokepoints like this. - The US pivot into the Asian-Pacific is really intended to create the ability to put a loaded gun to the head of China and say, you will do as we say otherwise we will be able to restrict. We'll be able to shut down, choke off your importation of oil (chanting) - [John Narrating] For often twice a day, these Catholic priests have staged a mass that blocked the gates of the new military base on Jeju Island. (singing) In a country where can be easily banned, the tactic has produced this (man speaking on loudspeaker) (speaks foreign language) Father Mun Jeong-hyeon has led the fight to stop the base being built and several times (singing) - I sing four songs everyday. Before the Mass, during the and the end of the rosary. The content of song is very beautiful. The writer and composer is the musician from this island. I love him very much and which I practiced and I became a master to sing that song because I - [John] You sing it with such passion. (singing) - Sometimes we just wait. Typhoon, typhoon strike! - [John] Do you sing then? Do you have a Mass when - Oh yes. No exceptions. - [John] What will happen if this base becomes operational? - They have destroyed the environment, they destroy the life of all of us. We should be witness of their - [John] Why do they do it? - They'd like to rule the They'd like to make China The US government want to (laughs) - [John Narrating] Meanwhile, joins them with his own ritual of protest, accompanied by an artist - [John Narrating] This that never speaks its name, whose power is represented in of American military bases. 4000 bases in the United States, almost 1000 bases spread - The archipelago of empire, the bases that we have around the world hidden in plain sight are the but at the same time we in Japan or South Korea or Germany. They don't have autonomy when So it's a very sophisticated whereby we pat ourselves on the back for helping to midwife democracy in Japan and Germany and South Korea while keeping the lid what these countries would do if they were fully independent. And the beauty of this system is that most people pay no attention to it at all. They think it's just a natural occurrence to have 50,000 American troops in Japan. - There's no country that has (laughs) cred, then the United States. And we are not trying to recreate the glories of the British Empire. We're arguing that the world is round. We have a global policy and all nations have global rights. - No ocean has ever been dominated the way the US dominates the They claim that in the of the Pacific Command, for 52 percent of the Earth's surface. And when you look at their logo, it shows an eagle over with one tail coming down and the other coming So Beijing looks at a network of bases, a real archipelago of empire that's been built up since the Korean War. - You have had and still have an arc of bases that start in Australia and go through the Pacific-- - No. We have no bases in Australia. - You have Pine Gap, you have Darwin-- - No. - And you have a new facility - No, to speak precisely, we have no military bases in Australia. What we do is is operate But we're not in the - There's a growing collection &quot;lilypad bases.&quot; These are bases that have no family members, very few amenities, and they are often quite secretive. They are bases that are within a foreign country's and generally are not - [John Narrating] Many of to combat China's worldwide From these bases, the United in 147 countries. - If you're gonna be a free country rather than give in to every you're gonna have to take a risk. 'Cause the gangsters, good people in the world so they can-- and in China, they want to they want to dominate. Just like Japan wanted Their goal was to dominate Today, because there's been no these guys want to dominate (mumbles) - [John Narrating] Andrew America's National Defense Panel. He's a military strategist - You've written that have a role to play in punishing China. You've described the need for sea mines. You've described the US Special Forces, and This sounds like a preparation for war. - Our first president, George Washington, said that if you want And essentially what the is responding to provocative And just as we did in the Cold War, the idea was to have a such that your adversaries to act in aggressive ways or try and employ coercion to get their way. - Just last week the US Navy into the Spratly Islands, And what was different was that Chinese fighters scrambled. That sounds like an escalator. - Well again, from an the escalation was that the Chinese beginning to militarize these moving its military capabilities engaging in provocative behavior against the commercial activities other minor countries in the region that have claim to those islands. So it's a response to - Excuse me, how is in the South China Sea? - There have been no military forces, no military bases there. The Chinese-- - Except the United States military base. - Not in the South China Sea. Not even in the Philippines because the United States withdrew - But the United States is - The Philippines and the five different locations the Philippines where US troops will be stationed on a rotational basis. - [John Narrating] This US bases on its doorstep was not an issue when an arbitration tribunal to the strategic Spratly In 2015, the US Navy rehearsed a blockade that would cut China's lifelines of oil and trade and raw materials. The danger of confrontation - The US Navy is on the doorstep of China regardless of disputed islands and is there with low-draft ships, planes, battle groups. It's right on the doorsteps. What of Chinese ships? What if the equivalent was off California? - Well John, we ask ourselves And it's important to put So look. We don't operate in the to scare China, to contain Our operations and our presence, first of all, is warmly of the coastal states, but secondly, is fully accepted by the Chinese. Time after time-- - Excuse me, is it fully accepted? - Yes, by their words. The Chinese leaders-- - [John] My impression - [John Narrating] And this A noose of bases right around China. Missiles, bombers, drones, warships. A provocation of war. - Today, I state clearly America's commitment to of a world without nuclear weapons. (cheering) - [John Narrating] Under Obama, nuclear warhead spending has risen higher than under any president - It's all a magician's show because at the same time that Obama not only is he spending a trillion dollars to modernize US nuclear forces, but he's deploying these to encircle Russia and China, which makes it impossible to get rid of nuclear - Everybody wants to See, I gotta be tough. I'm not afraid of doing anything military. I'm not afraid of threatening. I'm a hairy-chested gorilla. And you don't want to so what you do is you talk and if you don't want to do it yourself, because you maybe think it you let somebody under you do the talking. And the United States has where there's a lot of and it's really being - Yeah, that seems incredibly - That's an understatement, - When you routinely plan for mass murder, you become conditioned to it. That's what this is. We accept it. Oh yeah, we have nuclear weapons. - The Defense Secretary has just announced that there will be and planes sent to the Philippines and the Wall Street Journal &quot;the vanguard of a major US That sounds like-- - Where does this end? What's the purpose? I mean, where are we before it starts a war? And then if the war starts, America, America God shed his grace on me And crown thy good with brotherhood From sea to shining sea (wind howls) The scientific studies that that predict that the Earth can be made essentially uninhabitable the scientists have been begging well, they wouldn't say begging. But they have made multiple requests to meet with them and because they're peer-reviewed studies and they've been turned They've been peripherally told that, well we don't think the long-term environmental consequences of nuclear war are all that important of nuclear war don't stop it. That the long-term environmental are liable to wipe out the human race. - [John] In one exchange, nuclear exchange between the US and China, what could be the consequences? - Well let me just give you an example of what one Chinese four would do to a city in the The detonation of that weapon over a city would instantly ignite about six or 700 square miles on fire. And within 20 to 30 minutes, all of those fires would coalesce into a single gigantic firestorm. There would be no escape from it. So all the people there would perish. So the US, with say, hundreds of nuclear When you combine all the smoke from these nuclear weapons detonating, it actually creates Black carbon smoke that'll into the stratosphere, it acts like a solar collector. And that smoke, because of that, will stay there for 10 years or longer. And what the smoke does is it blocks warming sunlight from reaching and it becomes so cold in a that the temperature every day for one to three years. And it will become too for at least 10 years or longer. (wind howls) - I mean, there's a total disconnect with the changing world. You have a giant rising Why would you expect a giant rising power to not want to have more What we should be doing in my view is trying to cultivate a sense and we can have our differences with them. If we think they're that we don't like, let's But this saber-rattling is the worst thing we can possibly do. (cheering) - It is time to show the whole world that America is back. Bigger, and better, and We don't have victories anymore. We used to have victories, When was the last time let's say China? In a trade deal, they kill us. We can't continue to allow China to rape our country, and It's the greatest theft in (audience cheers) - [John Narrating] The new has a problem with China. The urgent question now is, will Trump continue with the provocations revealed in this film and take - There never have been two countries more interdependent on each other than China and the US in history. And China is the largest trading nation in the world and in history. So China's economy and their are linked to the entire world. Including America and the West So I think interdependence and among all the nations of the world, speak to peace. (gentle music) - [John Narrating] We don't of those who conjure up to justify the business and profit of war if we recognize there and that's us. Ordinary people everywhere, Jeju Island, the Marshall Islands, China, the United States. By speaking out, they deliver Can we really afford to be silent? We'll meet again Don't know where, don't know when But I know we'll meet again Some sunny day Keep smiling through Just like you always do 'Til the blue skies Far away So will you please say hello To the folks that I know Tell them I won't be long They'll be happy to know That as you saw me go I was singing this song We'll meet again Don't know where Don't know when But I know we'll meet again Some sunny day We'll meet again Don't know where Don't know when But I know we'll meet again Some sunny day Keep smiling through Just like you always do 'Til the blue skies drive So will you please say hello To the folks that I know Tell them I won't be long They'll be happy to know That as you saw me go I was singing this song We'll meet again Don't know where Don't know when But I know we'll meet again Some sunny day