[Applause] Welcome to the closing ceremony call on stage the awesome, incredible executive Hi everybody, how you doing? [Good] [Yeah] Yes, you are how many hackers here? How many in the to get started because I think you want to hear hear Andrej. All right, let's quick run through you happening? This is what we're going to do today: some pictures all you hackers. Did we have fun? Did we have a good time? I had a absolute blast and yes there were llamas for sure. I was there most of impressed with all of you. You hacked your hearts stage or in audience you're all completely awesome. happen? This giant number: 371. UC Berkeley SkyDeck, which I represent, and Cal Hacks educational program and student organization so I think we did This is how it breaks down - Hackathon at Berkeley give some love to sponsors. As I mentioned, we're organization; this is all because of the sponsors they come up on stage, you with me? Awesome! Okay, 140 out helping everybody. Let me tell you a bit about SkyDeck. Who hasn't heard of SkyDeck anybody? A couple of you. SkyDeck UC Berkeley's Flagship accelerator track gets $200,000 in investment from you about Berkeley SkyDeck fund. Our dedicated (that's a lot of startups for a venture fund by apply to SkyDeck July 16? I want to see all of your And hackathons at Berkeley are amazing student put us this on this event. This is, of course, what for 10 years, they do about 2500 students a year How many people here not from Cal? Hacking not from bring great talent in. Y'all are great talent. what Berkeley hackathons does. Come to their 11th them out on social media. Get on that LinkedIn and Y'all coming? Yes, okay fantastic! All right thank hackers here, including our friends down in the other great universities fantastic. Really happy to hear Andrej? Yes, please give a huge round member of Open AI! I need the applause, come on! Keep you. Hi everyone! Yeah uh, so thank you for inviting love love love hackathons. I think there's, of creativity, young people trying to do cool just like my favorite place to be, and I've had pleasure to be be here and talk to you today. Um when they invited me. So this is really large here. Um, I kind of feel like actually the scale of uh the hackathon is quite large, and I guess like one you're wondering - uh this is not normal for AI. that with confidence and uh you know it's kind of a couple hundred uh academics getting together talking together about some esoteric details Uh this is when I entered AI about 15 years ago. neural networks you're working with these tiny boltim machine, you're using contrastive Divergence these on your first layer to make sure that the makes any sense because it's been so long ago uh not as crazy. I think things have really gotten beautiful to see the energy and today, 15 years is I guess where AI is today uh and that's also the manufacturer of GPUs, which is used for all now the most valuable company in the United States live in today and why we have so many hackathons But definitely unprecedented and this is a very you maybe are entering the AI field right now super unique. There's a ton happening now. I think think the nature of computation basically is Computing paradigm that we're entering into and 1980s of computing all over again and instead of works on instructions over bytes, we have these central processing unit uh working on tokens then in addition to that, we have a contact window equivalence of dis and everything else so it's a and that's why I call this like the large language this in some more detail before. And so I see this program and uh what it's good at what it's not really how to squeeze the most out of it. So that I you have seen the GPT 40 demo that came out from and you're really starting to get a sense that talk to and uh it responds back in your hears and can paint and can do all these things. I think potentially many of you have seen this movie; if you haven't I would definitely watch it &quot;Her&quot; and actually kind kind of presently in this the AI that AI is called an OS an operating system. uh and it's a beautiful movie and I encourage movie I think the focus is very much on like the models but these models in practice in our society the digital space and so it's not just going to weird way resembles a human almost in that you can but it's not just a single digital entity maybe we can give them tasks and they can talk to each threads and they're just doing a ton of work a ton of digital infrastructure not just uh infrastructure as well. And this is kind of an happen uh slightly lagging behind a lot of the to work with bits than atoms uh but this is you to as one of my favorites. It is not well it's from from 2004. Will Smith amazing movie and robots doing a lot of tasks in society and kind people in this movie and the robots kind of like of interesting to think through and I definitely this movie takes place in 2035 allegedly which can definitely squint and think about that these things are walking around and talking to digital world and what does that look like what we make sure you know they um that they sort of this together I think the feeling that people do you feel the AGI quote unquote and what this the magnitude of what could be coming around the The amount of automation that we can and the physical space now I don't know about you This is what came out when I put a bunch of the and I don't actually like this picture. I think a few thousand people here. You're about to enter lot of this technology and you're going to be of power over it so I don't know, maybe we want I would like um so this is humans animals and this is actually a high-tech society and there automation but it's hidden away and it's uh it's is something that we want instead and you should to be like because you're going to build it. So than the previous picture but I don't know about living in that future I think so the question for a really a bunch of really cool project over the from hacking to actually changing the world and you and so what I thought I would do in this or so in the industry and I think I had a bit change and I have some takeaways and things like first thing that I find really incredible is how like all of snowballs can actually like snowball that is to watch. So as an example I have my fair some projects from a long time ago that I worked Rubik's Cube color extractor I put up some game and tried to teach people programming for games. like kind of jankie neuroevolution simulator which All of these projects actually go on to snowball. and so actually these three projects didn't It was really wasted work it was just like it still like helping me along the way I'll come tutorials actually ended up snowballing for me programming tutorials to a bunch of Rubik's Cube time and this is kind of sparked an interest student at Stanford I uh got to teach this class this was the first like big deep learning class to like this and then after that I ended up Zero to Hero series for deep learning and all. So of that continuing the snowball the project I'm and what it could look like and how I can make about building a Storyteller something like kind stories and the idea is you build everything from to like kind of a chat GPT clone in the domain think will be really instructive could be really three days ago so it's pretty raw and still excited for it. This for me is an example of a game programming and I'm working on a course you. Another example from my life I think is the as was briefly mentioned I was a founding member ago these are some images that are public of apartment like eight of us and uh open AI was Google. And Google had was like this gorilla with employed like half of the AI research industry an interesting setup I would say and we were just interesting and very similar to my background Open internally we hired some really good people and of them really did work and so as an example a very small snowball at in the early history And if you come by their desk and you're like I on a Reddit chatbot we're trying to like compete like we should be doing something bigger uh and because they're so fragile right these projects reddit chatbot and by the way don't read too much random screenshots just for illustration uh but but actually Reddit chatbot what is that? It's a Reddit but actually you could train a a language when the Transformer came out this was spun into domain was expanded from just Reddit to many other then you get GPT 40. So actually this Reddit chat ended up leading uh and snowballing into GPT 40 in the Computing Paradigm and you can talk to it to have witnessed some of those um I guess worth uh maybe somewhere just below 1 billion uh incredible to see some of these snowballs in two days have also worked on small project - small that some some of them probably won't go anywhere should continue the momentum of your projects and and that's really incredible to watch. The next concept of 10,000 hours that was popularized by believer in in it and I think that to a very large and just a huge amount of it and you should be just literally just count don't be too nervous failing etc. Just do simple B counting of how many adds up. Even the projects that I failed at and counter of number of hours I've spent developing of being able to take on these projects with examples of that. I made this like really janky project and it's called awesomemovies.life and not 100% sure. I wouldn't recommend you go there. because I was trying to figure out what to watch to build myself a movie recommendation engine. So I to mine was wow that's so cool that you got this on that at the time because it wasn't as amazing person is not seeing is that this is my 20th time see all the steps that what's going to follow. Okay write some some of this JavaScript stylesheets all I need to scrape all these web pages, I need and and all these things are things I've already lying around from previous projects and I'm just of this and so remixing everything into a new me to put this up over the weekend and it's not this only comes from having done it 20 times that would say in my life was a Tesla autopilot. So um Tesla autopilot about seven or eight years ago and joined the team was I basically ended up rewriting training codebase uh from scratch in pytorch. In team, I sort of agree with the whole thing of what it is now and I think to some extent to for me it wasn't because I was coming from my PhD knew exactly what needs to go into there I need my Loop in pytorch I need my um uh sort of configs resonet. I need to put in detection we're doing a like I'm anticipating all the steps and that only done it 20 times before and so I think this makes are may be much less impressive to you if you've to this point where you have your 10,000 hours. that's it by the way 10,000 hours if you're doing 5 years uh so it's about a length of a PhD that think it's roughly correct that that works out to actually quite useful is uh to keep the dopamine it works and what it needs to keep going and how is a reward machine and it wants rewards and way to give it rewards and in my practice It Is by publishing them and so here I have a web page on in the past and these are hackaton projects Some of them are not quite good Etc but what I one I love that projects get you to work on When you go to classes you're learning in a stuff just in case you might need it in the future. what you need and you're learning it on demand think it's a very different mode of learning that is very important so 100% encourage people to work actually also like a really good Jedi mind trick. you're going to put something up, you're thinking at it: your friends and teammates and family and the bar for your own work and it makes you at it and you feel shame if it was crappy and so extra mile to make it really good and that really are looking at your projects uh you're going appreciate it. They fork it, they work on top of it way that this comes together is you are getting build up to 10,000 hours of experience and that's small snowball all the way to a really big one and So, in summary, that's I think how it works, like on a high level. [APPLAUSE] And then hopefully, this is build together when we snowball all Uh, but not the not the first picture [APPLAUSE] Andrej Kaparthy, everybody! Thank you Andrej, that was awesome. Thank you, thank you. Alright. Let's get to those pitches. The grand prize--coming up, you're going to hear eight pitches by eight projects--filtered through 290 submissions, narrowed stuff. The grand prize is a $25,000 investment (an They must commit to hacking all summer on their And they must appropriately form, of course, a legal entity. How do you get money otherwise? All right. I would like to now tell you briefly about how this is going to go. Eight projects, as I said. Three-minute pitch. You guys ready? Three minutes? Yes, they're ready. The judges will then And then after all the pitches, the grand judges will go and Alright, I would like to because we have an incredible panel of judges. We are so pleased to have them. Please welcome our first judge, Brian Bordley with the Berkeley SkyDeck Fund. Welcome, Brian! Marcy Vu with Greycroft. Welcome, Marcy! Ninamdi Iregbulem with Lightspeed. Welcome, Ninamdi! Irving Sue with Mayfield Fund. Welcome, Irving! Kurt Keutzer, UC Berkeley faculty and serial entrepreneur. Welcome, Kurt! And Mark Nitzberg, Berkeley faculty and director of the UC Berkeley Center for Human Compatible AI. Thank you, judges. Alright, we got eight startups warming Let's give them a little drum roll. Let's give them a little drum roll, we can get 'em going. I first have to hear if the slide's up-- The slide is up first! Are you ready? You ready? Are you ready? Yes! Please give, everybody, a warm round of applause. They've been up all night hacking and they're ready to share with you. Please welcome the first project: Revision! Come yes, the mic, that would be helpful. Yeah, thank- pleasure here on the behalf of my team. Also um, I'm a rising senior studying computer science at as well as data science students on our team our project. So our project, we're focusing on authors capable of detecting and mitigating bias and there is a reason why we're doing this. When across textbooks, only 13.1% were women and featured seven of the most frequently used biology color only appear every 320 pages of text while 10 college stem textbooks published between 2016 and hard and it has been something that I've elementary school to middle school, we constantly situations where text is always there and it's And this research has been done by numerous of identifying people creating databases but there hoping to create this problem. But there is no the textbook companies actually is who we our team revision process actually takes six to 12 months working on bias checks and the issue here is that They also bring in their personal biases as well writing and revising part of this entire um this through when writing textbooks. So again here you have used Turnitin or Grammarly when you're there needs to be an additional check here for other biases and making this process affordable it's not a costly process for anyone and through chain diversity. So starting from a younger age to use textbooks that truly reflect the true prototype. So we have our text box here on the in real time, the examples of like some sort and on the right, we have an overall score and we're using machine learning models on the back And I'm not sure if I can play the Prototype can click through the different links to see the of these, we are also adding in an API through sponsors here um like such as hume API and more um in the textbook writing and in addition to actually help you also get bringing data databases sort of represent it um because bias actually through actual like text such as um representing Man and the other way is that um the entire tone hume API to actually detect that emotional So we also considered adding in the chat scientists that are like for example contributing scientists in call it a day. We would also suggest as well. So please join me and our team in you. So I I think everybody in communication diversity so it seems like you have a much Also a comment on kind of like Market sizing potential ways you could expand the market here writing textbooks is a relatively small group but new era of AI generated content, a much wider generation process so that's one thing. And then the consumers of textbooks. In some sense the bias of the equation not on the manufacturer side and to want to pay for something like those. Yeah So like the textbook would be our official it would be more of like a grammarly checker a similar comment on TAM and Market opportunity into production that if you actually had it as a more velocity um both in terms of getting the impact. Yeah I'll just I'll just like as well of hitting the theme of how do we think companies setting out communication this this problem exists everywhere so too. Okay, thank you. Yeah, thank you. Whoops! Agent OS; please welcome Agent OS. Hey there everyone! My name is Shashank I'm here the crowd over here. We built today, Agent OS! you guys are bombarded every single day and every qualms. these are things that are very hard to deal GPT llm this chat GPT that everything but you have And that's no fault of your own! The current state functionary tasks; more so it's very hard as an to even get started with even the simplest Even engineers with years on years of experience even thousands and thousands of dollars to even OS completely transforms the landscape. With agent a matter of seconds from natural language. What org structure. You have your managers. You have interns. Everyone is really good at what they do: they have their tools, their skills. Let's say John is really good at charting and making PowerPoints. Let's say Steve is really good at Python coding. Everyone's really good at what they do. In this, you have a very collaborative, working together to create this common solution for someone coming Our engineers Dhruv and Ugam were able to replicate this human collaborative process programmatically, using LLMs. What does this do? the way up to Enterprise clients, to be able to interact and use these multi-agent, agentic workflows in their day-to-day life to improve their quality of life or productivity in all in a matter of seconds and a few sentences. Let's go back to the case study of the hair salon. In the process of doing your taxes and accounting, you You have your collection from your receipts and your invoices. You have calculating your cash flow, all the calculations you have to do. You have to manage your workers and then you also have to do your general summary: what about your insights for the year? How you were spending, what you were spending on. And you have to also do a lot of clustering and analytics on impossible for modern-day LLMs at the current ask it a question for even more than three things, it'll forget what the first thing was by the time you're at the second. It doesn't work that way. With Agent OS, this completely changes, where you're able to have these complex workflows. Let's dive into another demo. So let's say I'm an analyst at JP Morgan and my boss tells me, &quot;Every morning, I want a report of XYZ stock in the morning, a detailed report on paper.&quot; How do I do that? I use Agent OS. use cases of multiple agents working together bar, you can see the use case of the analyst. Here, I have to do market research and live stock data. I have to search the internet: go on Yahoo Finance, then qualitative analysis. Then I have to do what my have to create charts, graphs and visualizations. like the one right there that says, &quot;Write me Yahoo Finance.&quot; In a matter of seconds, the common connect them to workers--you can think of workers as your these actions using the tools--and then connect to--on this screen you see four, but you can scale this up to 40, 400 basically complex, vertical, and horizontal organizations that are able to perform anyone, from enterprise to consumer. What does this completely opens the landscape up for anyone and own hands from natural language. Take your average farmer at a farmer's market. He's trying to create his marketing campaign for the upcoming Farmers' looking at his metrics, looking at the customers, brochures, papers, pamphlets and whatnot. With one all the documentation he needs in order to enact continually and grow his business at his Farmers' Market. Things like this are completely opened up with Agent OS and we hope to completely all scales, at all geographies, and all use cases within sentences and seconds. Thank you. [APPLAUSE] That's a, a compelling proposition. right now, the agents are the--the LLMs, you know, performing these tasks and there's a reliability of what they're doing. And so I--I think that in a future where we have that reliability, this would a kind of tandem subject matter expert, maybe I think next time I hear this pitch, I'd love to It's hard for me to imagine [it] serving a hair This is a huge opportunity and a big, dig a bit deeper into your tech staff and the really complex problems and issues. And I also agree Because it's--it's pretty broad and wide. I'll say, I kind of like the broad focus. There's a lot of individual startups tackling each of these or research. So it might be interesting these other tools that are out there and really these other companies solve the--the technical challenges. Yeah, I think the value proposition of creating multi-agent workflows in a matter of seconds is really compelling. I think the next step would be trying to figure out: how can you go from simply performing these tasks, to becoming the best at these tasks? So for example, going after the outliers--sort of the thesis around coaching networks. Some startups do this and they do it better for like certain verticals than others. So I think doing more research around that could be really compelling. Only thing I would add is just think about, you know, enterprise of authentication and authorization you're going to have to do for all these agents, so just have a answer for that. Well yeah, thank you so much. Thank you everyone. Thank you, Agent OS! Alright, next up, Skyline. Come on out, Skyline! Hey everyone. Hey, so my name is Rajan and I'm a first year student at the University of Waterloo, and I study software engineering. They should optimize and scale for the Skyline is a, an optimizer and it allows using agents and optimize things like traffic mobility and reduce things like carbon emissions. but I want to walk you through the case study of Los Angeles. So Los Angeles is one of the largest carbon emitters in North America. the amount of cars. And so what are ways in which the people who inhabit Los Angeles. We can extract census data. Things like age. We can look at things like gender. We can look at things like income. this information, we can start to find patterns. distinct agents. Each agent is a different citizen we can do is we can give them each their own chain of thought. Each person here has their own day in their life. For example, this person is a very young large income. He has a long day at work and after what this person may do, and now model this on a are moving around, what we can do is we can try and here is we have our own proximal policy analyzer, we believe to be the best way to understand how-how we can move around from any point A and B in-in the fastest way at the lowest mechanisms, our own machine learning models to and and how to reduce this through our transit. think the best way for me to represent this to you is through a video. I hope this video loads. Is it possible to play the video? So what we first do, is we have an agent-based simulation. These are 500 distinct things in parallel that are running. can do is we can find patterns in how they can do is now that they're all back in their original position, we can start a generation of transit. We're using these patterns to now we believe to be the most optimal. So what Skyline is--we're not a company that does analysis of transit. to better understand and better predict how optimize them using these patterns. Yeah. So, that's Skyline. Happy to take any feedback. [APPLAUSE] Wow. I-I just want to observe that twin of a city is for the-the essentially, you know, each citizen is being simulated using, you know, one of these model. It-it will be, uh, probably language model some of the statistics that sure you're getting what you're what getting But that's very impressive. like economic theory about, you know, agents and whatnot, and the thing that usually gets you is So making sure that that actually represents And then the other thing also related to value I would think about is just value capture for your own sake, because I feel like this is like a impact of this could be massive, but how much vendor is less clear to me. But it's very I guess I would be curious about maybe some more nuanced enterprise use cases, as well if it's concerts or security or stadiums. So kind of just thinking about: direct ROI with, um, for this sort of modeling. Yeah, we-we tried to consider ourselves to be a human-modeling software and this is just one of the most visual applications which is transit. Awesome, thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you, Skyline. Alright, next up we have, we have...Spark! Please welcome Spark! [APPLAUSE] Hi, how's everyone? How's Cali? We are Spark, and we're giving a voice to new entrepreneurs, young entrepreneurs. So let's admit it: cold-calling is really hard. I mean, resources are hard to get, it's hard. If you've cold called someone, you know they later.&quot; I mean, they're busy, everyone's busy. earn the time of working people. There's existing solutions: it's long and arduous for trial and error. It's expensive for a sales coach. And finally, easy if you're just meeting them, right? to our software, we go through and analyze the emotion, we aggregate this data, and we give you productive feedback. Who's our target market? who are engineers. People who love to build and you want to sell. record your cold outreach and we can tell you to hopefully land your product where it needs to be. Later on, we want to expand to call centers and sales staffs, because we think we can spread profitable. We have usage-based tiering, so 40 cents for 10,000. So this is our software, and I entrepreneur around 6 months ago, and we made an calls--100 cold calls. I got no clients. got actually three. And I realized something: up on patterns but at the same time, it's kind of inefficient because it took 800. Here, we look at the emotion between every single sentence decreasing emotions. We see that when we talk officers, it shows an increase in their interest we had. So, in our analysis page, we see in the top increased officer safety, and discussing cost to officers because we're some college students, data. Bringing this up early really helped improve our rates, and the four things you see here in the corners are the different triggers we generated So one is positive reactions, negative reactions, normalizing exciting situations. We also generate you make. We also have a RAG so you can upload your pricing information. So if you make a mistake, Maybe instead of saying this, you could have a little bit.&quot; Sorry, my team picture isn't on here guys were a great team and I'm honored to be here [APPLAUSE] I guess I need to be the first person to say that with other offerings here. So yeah. I'll say something that stuck out to me was this idea of of insights, but I-I think you know at team, and a marketing team, and an online web team. maybe it's interesting to think about: how do you pull insights from like one channel of sales or marketing, and actually bring that into are actually influencing what's going spots of opportunity there. Yeah. I could actually I want to give you an example. Say we a first cold call with one person and later on, my right in the future. And then my third founder profile for this client as they go along so we can a profile on ourselves, too, so we can learn more make sure that we're learning as we go. this data that we leverage, then we can connect benefit. Yeah, I had a similar comment. I think it would be really game-changing if, in addition to some of the real-time analyses you guys are system with information on prior calls, or this how they complement those of the other people knowledge graph around each person's strengths fine-tune the system. Yeah, thank you. You guys saw conversations--you can actually go into every it deeply the same way you did in the latest conversation. I would think about the full sales funnel. Um, this is pretty deep down in it and as able to convert or where-where is the wedge, goes into converting a sale, and it's not just calling the right people, or is the issue, like, are So just thinking more broadly about that funnel, most impact and have the right wedge into Yeah. Thank you. Alright. Thank you, Spark! [APPLAUSE] Clicker. Clicker! Thank you! Okay. Next up, we have HearMeOut! Hey guys. Hi, my name built is an AI-driven customer service pipeline, So that might leave you scratching your head, so let's just context: I'm an exchange student, and when I things. I had to deal with banking, I had to deal even had my car break down to me. overwhelmed by the sheer number of customer service calls because for each of these things, I had to make so many calls just to get things to that. We've all had our fair share of bad call representative is also upset, and nothing gets and I think that's the core of what we're trying tries to provide optimal matching and provide So we also did the research, and I think the numbers sizable market, and a sheer number of people are statement, which is: &quot;how might businesses which experience for their customers?&quot; So we think we can an improved call bot. We all are common with that sometimes it's really, really frustrating. just doesn't direct you to the right person? and third--and I think this comes hand in hand--is businesses with better visibility of both call, customer representatives' bandwidths over the this is where we put those two together: we journey through a best--through a better customer-to-service you with this data, but with-with that in and I just want to point three key parts out to you. customer agreeability with an initial robocall. want to use Hume's EVI to manage the robocall the customer's emotions as they go through the score for the customer. Second of all, whole thing on the right that goes down below. between a customer and a representative, it takes duration, the emotional change over the call, and measurement EVI. We can then also generate a call score. to this--it's the matching API. Using the two things that I just mentioned, to a customer-service representative which matches on how our custom model is developed. As a representative goes through their day, their state bandwidth adjusts accordingly. to in a positive manner, and creates a better experience can build with what we have, but with this tackle the problem that needs to be solved. That's [APPLAUSE] Nice. Yeah, I mean a-a little bit of feedback similar companies working in this space too, so I would find that core differentiation, you know, if you Yeah, I completely agree. I think a key part what you can achieve with custom models. we're creating something where we can create, in a sense, a model which trains itself. We can assess how calls might improve or get worse fed straight to the matching API so that it knows find that really interesting and we think that There might be some opportunities synthetic data pipeline here, where you like an AI bot of some sort and use that will be or not, but could be interesting. I know right now, you guys are targeting Something that could be interesting to think of the software adoption life cycle as you go and then your late majority, who's eventually like, what those ideal customer profiles are Yeah. Thank you for that. I think one key thing was, to us about how they're doing something similar that really interesting. So, happy to figure Thank you so much. Cool, thank you. Thank you HearMeOut! Alright, next up we have Hi everyone. My name is Spike, and I'm with Dispatch AI. of 911 call centers are critically understaffed. emergencies aren't able to get the support busy, and they're often put on hold. of Oakland, where last year, the average wait-time was over 60 seconds to pick up a 911 call. Now, in an emergency, every second counts and this and death. This is unacceptable, and that's why call operator designed to eliminate these wait-times. First is the voice AI. The voice AI will step into work with the caller to evaluate their situation, first-responders directly to the scene. the operator themself. So the operator will have calls, which will be automatically triaged by the Further, they'll see that the AI will automatically transcript of the call so that they can quickly once they're available. Further, they have buttons because the location's already fetched--dispatch done from a human-centric angle. callers' emotions. So for instance, when a caller work more to calm them down and make them feel at ease This system is fully designed with ethical safe-guides in mind, 500 911 calls, so that it could understand the be knowledgeable on a wide variety of possible scenarios in which a 911 operator could assist them, including fake calls or instances where This is all powered by our innovative tech stack that utilizes a AI, the emotional analysis, and of course, a Our mission is to make requesting emergency [APPLAUSE] I'll go first. I thought you did a great job. I thought you presented the problem set, the opportunity, and the product very clearly. all the relevant points. Thank you. The one thing I would encourage you to think about a little bit, is sort of like the optimization people in Oakland are waiting 60 seconds to a reason for that. I don't know what that is, that's how they want it to be. And so I would AI to this problem, doing the potentially it is that these municipalities are actually Because it seems like a no-brainer when you for some reason that is probably nuanced and-and tricky. Any other feedback? Well, just just following up on that, I think the key is ease of adoption. I mean, I think you--it's easy going to be, easy to make a productivity argument to the city of who's actually installing? Who's Okay, think that's good. Thank you so much. ASL Bridgify. Please welcome ASL Bridgify. Hello. My name is Eisha, and today I'll be presenting ASL Bridgify: the next generation of sign-language interactive learning. Okay, sorry. So, what was the inspiration language after Spanish and English. of hearing loss deficiency, which is why of-for people with hearing loss deficiencies vice versa. And next, there's over a 15,000% return on investment over a 10-year period, demonstrating the value proposition. not take into account ASL learning, which is why platform where individuals can retrieve Now, our solution includes three the Random Forest algorithm in order to, in order to of frame length of 200 t-to the predicted, um, predicted Al alphabet from A to Z. Next, we also use an LSTM model, which captures sequential pose coordinates to the actual word. RAG calling in--calling in link chain as well as learning that get chunked and transformed in a vector-dimension space. Now as you can see here, this is a hand-pose estimation extraction using the media pipe library. So you can see A, B, and C. And here's our platform, alphabets signs as well as sentences. We even real time to capture the sign that you are and give you the accuracy for that. So here's an actually extract all of the hand key-points. Here are some videos where they're over-- over hundreds of words that you can actually view Now, this is our--this is our proprietary RAG and we've collected a variety of ASL learning. Potentially in the future, YouTube transcriptions that can actually be, that within our vector-dimension model. doesn't just--hand pose estimation doesn't There are plenty of other opportunities for fields like dance, martial arts--where you can can also get feedback generations the future, this could also be integrated into [and FaceTime Video. So if there's--so given you can get in real time the actual [APPLAUSE] That's nice work for 36 hours. Um, I-I spent some time blind, and-and I would be just very aware of it and who will be paying. I think that will Thank you. Yeah, as you think about the market, you know, are tricky to kind of scale to meaningful Rosetta Stone whatever 20 years ago, and then gen, but there aren't like that many that get to about that market and what are the kind of I think even as I mentioned previously, apart from just hand-pose estimation, I think that there's a big market for body- pose estimation. I think especially in things like military. Even dance performance there are actually specific techniques in which they think those are also potential markets that You chose more traditional machine learning algorithms that may be the right answer. That's not obvious need to explain why you're not using more Yeah, so initially, we were actually thinking about using more en-encoder based transformer models, but we also ran into some struggles so we just But in the future, we would obviously of the state-of-the-art transformers and even in poses, that could be an easy encoder-to-decoder, multi-self attention model that you could train. Okay, thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you! Alright, our last contestant for the grand prize is Greenwise! Please welcome Greenwise. [APPLAUSE] When I was 14, I stopped months. Now, even though I still eat meat, there have a huge impact on your carbon footprint. the carbon footprint of your meals by six times. beef to chicken for everything: for your shoes, Everything has a carbon cost and a carbon footprint that all their purchases and the carbon footprint of decisions, and research about how they should We seamlessly integrate with input what the consumer is already doing, for example, through receipts or through emails. We have integrated with Apple Pay, with their purchases into our system. compare it to our vector database. This database products that we've analyzed and made sure Additionally, by using the vector embedding, we accurate. It's not an LLM that can hallucinate. predictions. From there it directly can tell them has a less carbon footprint. Additionally, this businesses want to analyze their carbon footprint venues. So from good intentions to It's a very innovative RAG use case. I would have Um, we're not using RAG here. It's similar in that it uses a vector embedding for, um, finding similarity, but the similarity is directly the output. Is this a subscription product? Or you would We would or you can talk. Uh... probably not. We, like Instacart or Safeway so that they can the carbon footprint of certain products is on to use on their own as demonstrated here. Okay I think that's all the comments. I would now like to invite our esteemed where judges make their decisions and we are going bunch of sponsors came to make this all happen. the support of these sponsors and they're not just bring them on. In just a minute, you're going for today. I also want to thank our community hung out and helped our young hackers with their first special prize is going to be announced by the Academic Innovation Catalyst. I'd like to you about AIC, one of our newest campus partners Thank you so much Caroline, it's just a created Academic Innovation Catalyst or AIC to for positive social impact and we're focused for good, which is why we're here today. How do so no strings attached, non-dilutive grants to take that idea, carry it through commercialization do. We're thrilled to be here today and we'll be plans or innovations involving the use of AI to be more excited to announce them in five seconds here. teams--it's been an extraordinary weekend. Thank you to two; it was tough but I think you'll see that it to my partner, Paul Work, to announce the winners [LAUGHTER] This is what happens when you get old really thrilled to be here as Matt said, fact that so many of you are putting your for the betterment of humanity. And AI has the most important is to make the world a And so with that, we're thrilled to announce Bridgify. So these are, you know, tremendous was so strong. May I ask, actually, both here? And thank you again so much for the terrific work. I think as you heard, ASL Bridgify is doing for sign language what and it is so important. It's incredible and not served market. And their technologies are what can you say? I mean, it's such an important be able to get a response when you need it, and of too many mass catastrophes, the time when you you're often most short-staffed. And so, Dispatch AI is using artificial intelligence and a variety of technologies to speed that process up and that the dispatchers are helping. And so, can I ask recognized? It's a great job. Congratulations to all of you and and to everyone who is here today. Thank you so much. Thank you, Matt and Paul. Thank prize is going to be introduced by our very own [APPLAUSE] Hello everyone. Hope everyone has had a and a half ago, we launched the SkyDeck Climate Tech university with $150,000 to build out the track. We grew our advisor network from, you know, maybe 30 advisers that are in the climate tech space. three to five startups every batch that were per batch in the climate tech space, and we really announce that the winner of the SkyDeck Climate still in the green room 'cause they just pitched. they really kind of represent the type of start-- early-stage startups. It's three team members Oh, they're all here on stage! Come on out. I wasn't best friends from middle school representing they've built a platform with actionable recommendations for their overall carbon footprint. So please, help me [APPLAUSE] Alright, thank you Sibyl. Thank you, Greenwise. special prizes from Intel! Intel, come on out! Gabriel Amaranto! Hi everyone, thank you all having us. We've had such a great weekend and your projects are so amazing--so thank you to everyone who joined our track. As you can see the We have our raffle-winner, Ayla Aeress. Third place is place is Dispatch AI, so let's give them a hand projects! If you won, please meet us outside. I want please meet us outside so we can take pictures and Thank you, Intel Alright, next up: AWS. Come on stage, AWS! We've got that's what they're going to tell you, go ahead Rohit! Well hey, thank you so much SkyDeck team extremely impressively run operation and we're this hackathon. Today, we have three different We have Brandon, Kevin and &quot;Ro,&quot; Rohit--we are members of with top generative AI startups like Anthropics, development of their large language models as well organic growth strategy including investments as well. We have four of the teams that we have place prize is for $10,000 in AWS credits, and we have two other prizes-- one for climate tech and then one for responsible AI, which are 5,000. impressive startups and founding teams we could give prizes to all of them. We did want and I think we have these conversations with Generative AI accelerator, as well as our AWS I'll go first. I'm going to be announcing prize out to DisasterAid. Is DisasterAid And then for responsible AI, we have a 2.5k for each team in credits. And that's GPT [APPLAUSE] Alright, and I'll round us out. Our that we heard and saw today--is going to in the building, stand up real fast. Let's give you a round of applause. I don't see them, but God bless you and keep doing what you're Thank you Intel! Our next amazing partner, Oh, out of order. Let me see if I can find you. There you are! you so much. Thank you to CalHacks. Thank you to be with all of you today, and thank you to from across the world. My name is Tony, and I'm from there's no drama here. We want to congratulate Frodo, Aman Kush and the team: if you are here, please up front. You are in the right place. Thank you so say at least, or $1,000 cash prize so please, early-stage at tech VC firm investing higher-ed, and workforce in tools that expand Many of the companies in our portfolio were founded better place to find great ideas and great talent living that experience? So, if you're building Thank you, Tony. Next up, we have You.com. We have Rex! prize. Applause, please! Hi everybody, thank you so much. Yeah, so we wanted to announce--I'm Rex, we're from You.com. This is Oliver. As you know, to our LLMs to make sure that they're as accurate best use of You.com's APIs to Transparify. So you're here--there you guys are--yeah, thank you they were live streaming videos, factchecking and You.com search APIs so it was really incredible and Assistant. Yeah, so for our Best Custom Assistant, and Davesh. So Oliver and Davesh, can you please there, yeah. So we were particularly impressed handled booking, searching, and even talking You.com in a way to actually find these them and can't wait to see what they do in the future. will give you your awards. Thank you, Hume--or You! going back to Hume now, with Zach. Great [APPLAUSE] Hi! So first, just a huge thanks to event and inviting us back and to all event. So I'm going to be announcing have: our best empathic AI most innovative empathic AI, and then just here, we've chosen ScamScanner. Can ScamScanner-- applause. For most innovative, we have Bloom Buddy. job, you guys! Talking of plans. And then, best a personalized learning assistant. Are are. Okay. Congratulations, you guys! Come take pictures, and thank you so much. Thank you next year. So take care! Alright, thanks Hume. there they are--please welcome, Jose Menendez. Hey everyone, very nice to be here. groq.com, experience the fastest inference groq right now, but our special &quot;groqstar&quot; award So these guys have a product that I want my potential scams--who doesn't want that for Now, they get 1,000 credits on Groq Cloud, There's two special mentions I have to read so you guys? Another awesome solution--these guys are something that I would use right now as well. You've been mentioned as well. Transverify, with instant fact-checking, am I right? Now, my special surprise for the day: I want to make a very special mention of Nathan Bog. Are you I'm going to give a special Technical Excellence ran on his CPU for doing very interesting dom- Not only that, Nathan is invited officially to he can. That's it guys. I'm very impressed with all the work we saw. Thank you very much. Congratulations. Thank you, groq! Alright! Our Please come back judges, come back so we can all enjoy the grand prize. Are you guys ready? Do you have a guess? Is there a voting? Do we have guess the top--your top two choices for grand prize and then, I'm going to ask who got it right. Okay. So as our wonderful judges take going here. Any other shout-outs? Okay, alright, grand prize is a $25,000 investment from the our Pad-13 program at SkyDeck AND a special prize: we are happy to announce that OpenAI is providing $2,500 in credits for this winner. So I think we're ready for the drum roll, take your guesses. Only the judges know--I don't know! We're Where are you? Come on, come on up! There's stairs right there. Come on, come to the front stage--there you go--thank you judges. I want to invite--while you for coming. I want to invite Spike we go: Dispatch AI, Grand Prize winners! Well done, well done. I'd like to invite the SkyDeck staff to come out, and the Berkeley Hackathon staff to come think some of them did not sleep at all. Please round of applause. Thank you everybody. Thanks for [APPLAUSE]