On March 11, 1314, according to other sources, it was March 18 a bonfire was built on the Jewish Island in the city of Paris. The bonfire was a pillar to which a 70-year-old man was tied and surrounded with brushwood soaked in flammable liquid. The old man was tied up by 2 executioners. The 3rd executioner threw a burning torch, the bonfire instantly rose and embraced the old man with its fire. The old man according to legend shouted the following: &quot;Pope Clement, King Philippe, Knight Guillaume de Nogaret! In less than a year I will call you to the Judgment of God. I curse you, a curse on your royal family up to the 13th generation!&quot; The last master of the Templar Order, Jacques De Molay, was burning at the bonfire. I quote from the book of Maurice Guillaume de Nogaret died a year before the events described, and King Philip the Handsome of France and Pope Clement really died within the next year, and Jacques De Molay, - the last grand master or grandmaster of the Templar Order, finished his journey at the bonfire. It's hard to believe, but really 2 years before the events described, it was the most influential organization in Western Europe. Eight centuries have already passed since that moment, and journalists return to the topic of the Templar Order. organizations, perhaps the most powerful organization of its time. The order has many secrets, legends of untold treasures, curses Jacques de Molay, which we will talk about later. What was the Templar Order really like? In the last release, we talked with you about the crusade. Here, as a result of the first Crusade and several other possessions of the Western crusaders or possessions of the Franks, as the Arabs called them, appear. Yes, these are all kinds of city-states that had different relations with the Kingdom of Jerusalem with the Arab world. Nevertheless, the Franks and Western knights came to the Middle East, followed by pilgrims, because the road is under the control of the knights. Pilgrims were coming from Europe, robbed and killed on the way. Well, as usual. not without that. It is clear that they went with some simple belongings of their own, but there were a sufficient number of dashing robbers at all times and the pilgrims suffered a lot from this. and now a French knight whose name was Hugo de Payne and his comrades, according to various estimates, there were either 9 or 18 of them, appear in Jerusalem at the court of King Baldwin II and tell him: &quot;Dear King, terrible things are happening to pilgrims in general. We would like to protect the pilgrims on their way to the Holy Land. We want to protect them completely free of charge, we don't need anything from you. we are filled with such a mission of service.&quot; King Baldwin was imbued with all this and gave the place of residence to these knights, which became the temple of Solomon or the Al-Aqsa Mosque. That is why the knights of the temple were called &quot;templars&quot; or &quot;Templars&quot;. Because &quot;temple&quot; is French for temple. That's how the Templars appeared in the Holy Land. The organization began to grow. I must say that the first crusade was really in many ways a campaign in the name of faith, in the name of the liberation of the Holy Sepulchre; indeed, a lot of people sincerely believed that they were doing a good deed and, in general, Hugo de Payne was certainly such a knight and his companions were the same. The news that the Order of the Temple in the Holy Land was created, it immediately began to spread throughout Western Europe and knights began to join the Templar Order, nobles from all over Western Europe began to join. It has become prestigious, I don't want to use the word &quot;fashionable&quot;, but nevertheless, yes, of course, if you want path of really good deeds in the name of the word of the cross, in the name of the cause of Christ, then here you are the path lies to the Templars and the order began to grow. He had more and more brothers-monks. He does not have a charter yet, will be written by Bernard of Clairvaux, a famous monk mentor of two Popes. The man who preached the second Crusade and largely thanks to him the second crusade took place; the man who preached the crusade against the Slavs. Indeed, not all campaigns were to the Middle East, the Holy Land, there were campaigns against the Slavs and there were even campaigns inside France. We will talk about this in the next release. In general, Bernard Klervosky was a man who was an active preacher of this crusade and, in fact, he wrote the charter of the Templar Order. In 1139, the most important event in or papal decree, if we speak ordinary Russian in a language called &quot;OMNE DATUM OPTIMUM&quot; every gift is perfect. The bull said that now the Templars are subordinate only to the Pope, they are exempt from taxes and they can travel to any Land they please. In other words, a new organization has appeared in the Western world, which stands above kings, which stands absolutely above any average nobility and which subordinate exclusively to the Pope. At that time, no one understood what this organization would develop into, as long as it was really a union of knights or a union of militant monks, if you want, who protect pilgrims in the Holy Land and help local kings and local feudal lords to fight with the Muslim world. Because they fight well. The Templars, for example, participate in such battles as the Battle of Al-Bukai in 1163. This is a battle with the Emir Nuraddin, a rather famous emir. In general, the Templars show themselves there from the best side. In 1177, they fought in the Battle of Ramla. In general, this is such a crusading special forces, in other words. Let's talk in more detail about what the inner structure and inner life of the Templars was like, As I said, joining the Templar Order was very honorable for any knight, but life was was hard enough. An ordinary Templar warrior is a knight who looks like this: chain mail, armor, over a white cloak with a purple cross sewn on. This is the distinctive sign of the Templars, which will be from the moment of foundation until the last days. The Order will even be known there for several centuries further. I'll also tell you why later. What does a Knight Templar who comes to the Holy Land do? Well, first of all, he denies all worldly goods: a vow of celibacy, no one can be hugged and kissed, even mother of sister. Austerity, bread, water, very simple food, no frills, fruits are allowed on some special holiday. Life consists of several things: you pray, you knight had to do this. Of course you are fighting, because there is a constant war with Muslims in the Middle East. Monastic orders, despite the fact that they were called warrior monks, knights do not accept monastic orders. But nevertheless, in life, in asceticism, in poverty, in the severity of everyday life, in constant prayers, of course their life was close to monastic. They were really poor knights. And here is the seal of the Templar Order, it looks like this: you see, two knights are riding on the same horse to emphasize that we have no other thoughts but good goals. We are absolutely poor people, we have one horse for two knights. Yes, that's the way we have to fight. This will become the seal of the order and then Philip the Handsome will return to this seal and explain in a different way what it means. A knight, as I said, cannot kiss and hug his sister. He renounces physical pleasures and takes a vow of celibacy, moreover, so that God forbid there would not be a night of fornication when the brothers do not see, the knights were obliged to sleep by candlelight, so that the shadows of Satan at night could not lead the knight into fornication and tempt him in this way. The actions of the knights were regulated by a document of 72 points. Here are 2 important points. This is the prohibition to kill Christians, which the knights of course violated and the prohibition to retreat in battle. It was not by chance that I called the Templars knight special forces, because indeed, legends were made up about their ability to fight. The knights almost never retreated and almost never surrendered. Almost. I will also tell you that there were exceptions, of course shameful exceptions. Violators of the charter were punished quite harshly, they were flogged, they were expelled from the order (this is generally the most cruel thing that happened). They were deprived of the right to wear a cassock with a cross sewn on, and people who committed malicious offenses and misdemeanors were put on bread and water for several months or even for several years chained in stocks. So that they can pacify their flesh there in this way and pacify their thoughts. The Magister was allowed to give horses and weapons to anyone, and in general he could give anything to anyone. It was impossible to refuse the master. Everything that the master ordered you to do, you had to do immediately, if you were able to do it, I mean, if your health allowed you. That is, the master of the order was a man to whom everyone obeyed implicitly. The power of the order is growing, up to 15,000, and at the time of the peak up to 30,000 knights were in the Templar Order. Where did the money come from in the order? Because there really are legends about the countless treasures of the Templars. Knights joined the Templar Order in different ways: poor knights joined, rich knights joined, members of influential families and noble houses joined. All the property of the Templars who joined the Order went to the order. This is the first source of wealth. The second source of wealth is roads. The Templars built an extensive network of roads in order to protect the pilgrims. Earlier, in the Middle Ages, in order to travel on the road from one county from one possession to another, you had to pay a toll. Because all the roads belonged to someone. There were no free roads. The Templar roads were free, but each road had several, as they would say now, several hotels, and then simply inns, where pilgrims could have a snack, stay overnight. All this brought money to the order without any taxes. As I have already told you, they were exempt from taxes. Another story, this license for a fleet in the Mediterranean. The Templars transported merchants, pilgrims, and diplomatic mail across the Mediterranean. They took money for all this. They didn't pay any taxes either. But they are still practically monks. The next moment, when you enter the Holy Land, when you go on a Crusade, or even when you may not be going on a Crusade, but you have disputed lands (and this was just every day in the Middle Ages), there is a village on the border of our two lands, which it is unclear to whom belongs, then either to me, or to neighbor Vasya. And we are constantly at war with this neighbour Vasya. What needs to be done so that no one takes this land from you by right? Even if you have a problem with your documents, as they would say now, you handed everything over to the Templars for management, and nothing could be taken away from the Templars. Go get it from him! You can't even complain to the king, because they'll say: &quot;Wait a second, we have nothing to do with the king, we have the Pope here, goodbye.&quot; This is another source of income for the Templars. It got to the point that entire provinces were bequeathed to them. Alonso I, King of Aragon, who was the owner of Navarre, among other things, after his death, bequeathed all his lands, Aragon and Navarre, to the Templar Order. the elites bought off them with quite a lot were all over Western Europe. It was important to cooperate with the Templars, it was profitable to be friends with them, because they could give protection, they could protect your lands and they could lend you money. Because the huge amount of free funds that the Templars accumulated, they allowed to grow. That is, they were engaged in usury, which was of course prohibited, but they circumvented this law and simply overstated the cost of the loan that you took from them, thus hiding their commission. It was much more profitable to work with them than with Jews, for instance. Jews, who were traditionally engaged in extravagance, gave money at 25%-40%. Italians, Venetian Genoese merchants from 30% to 40% worked. The Templars worked at a gentle, as they would say now, rate of 10% percent. And of course it was very profitable to work with them. we often talk about non-cash payment, payment by bank transfer, this is the same bank transfer invented by the Templars. How? It was dangerous to carry money from Burgundy to Holland (well, there was no Holland at that time, there was Flanders). Or it was dangerous to carry cash from Spain, from Madrid, from Barcelona to Paris. Because you were robbed all the time. by gangs of wandering knights. Therefore, the Templars came up with checks. What is it? The Templars have a cell in Milan, a branch. You left Milan and handed over 100 thousand in gold to the local Milan branch. You were given a check &quot;they took 100 thousand gold from Ivan Ivanovich.&quot; You took a thumbprint, applied it, it was your seal. You put the check in pocket and went to Paris without money. In Paris, you came to the Templars, gave a check, you were given 100 thousand and some commission was taken for it. It was the first European, the first world non-cash financial system. There are disputes that the Arabs have come up come up with the same system before, but I will not give the cup of first to anyone now. In Western Europe, the Templars were definitely the first, and therefore, if you want, these credit cards, which everyone now has, are what the Templars came up with. It's just that back then, such bills, such checks with a thumbprint served as credit cards. Another such fact telling about the influence of the Templars is the story about England. In England, in London, this place, which is called Temple, is still partially preserved. There was a temple in Paris, there was a temple in London. The head of the English Templars takes a seat in the Royal Parliament, that is, in other words, translating into Russian, in the State Duma. This is a very important person and the Templars thus gain influence throughout Europe. it is necessary to structure. How was the Templar organization structured? The Order was divided into 10 provinces: Jerusalem, Tripoli, Antioch, France, England, Poitou, Anjou, Portugal, Apulia and Hungary. Provinces were divided into commanderies and priories, which were divided into even smaller units, which were called &quot;houses&quot;. That is, the structure was absolutely clearly formalized and very well branched. The main persons of the order: the master is the absolute ruler of the order, does not obey any of the kings of the earth, except the Pope. A Visitor is a clergyman authorized by the head of the order to inspect all the monasteries under his jurisdiction. Seneschal - this person who is in charge of the supply and life of the order, acts as a representative of the Great The Master in his absence. And while the master is present, he is his chief adviser. The marshal of the Order is the person responsible for military training and during the war, the marshal, as a rule, leads the Templar army, unless it is it is headed by the Grand Master. The caretaker of clothes is a person who is engaged in equipping brothers. The commanders of 3 East provinces: Jerusalem, Tripoli and Antioch are all subordinate only to the Master General Chapter. Each of them has his own marshal and his own army under his command. The teams of the province were followed by the Shatilens, these are the managers of castles, in general, the Templars built a huge number of castles, a huge number of Gothic cathedrals. There is a myth that here they found the very Grail that gave them the highest knowledge about construction, architecture and mathematics, so that they could calculate how to build fortresses and how to build cathedrals. Well, according to more mundane versions, they took this knowledge in the Middle East, where fortification had already moved much further forward than in Europe. Caretakers of houses, sergeants, they were managed by the rural possessions of the order. The order had a huge amount of land, cows grazed on these lands. There were some people who cultivated allotments, harvested crops. That is, it was quite an agricultural part of the Templar corporation. Knight commanders or or unit commanders commanded the highest ranks, but they did not have much power over the soldiers themselves. The brothers-knights and sergeants of the convention were just warriors who dressed in white cloaks with scarlet crosses, they could have up to three horses, they could not have more. After all, the order is an emphatically poor organization, as it was thought. Therefore, only three horses were allowed to them. Turkopoly - are light detachments that were recruited from mercenaries, usually local residents, if we are talking about Middle East. They fight on the side of the Templars. A non-commissioned marshal is a person who commands sergeants commanders. In the battle, along with a guard of knights, led the march. Flag bearer (and also a very important person) this is the knight who carries the Templar standard. It has an important function, in addition to the fact that the loss of the banner has always been considered simply the greatest military crime, because if the banner is lost, a military unit can signaled with flags during the battle. How was the knight dressed? He has a hat with a knitted balaclava over his hat, then a chain mail helmet and another helmet on top, that is, plate armor. You don't hear anything. The only way to control you, if a person is not next to you, is with the flags of the standard-bearer. The most important function is almost like radio operators in modern warfare, that's the function they carried. The sergeants of the commander of the houses are the people who ensured the combat capability of the troops.And the most recent rank in the order is a clothier - a person who, as you might guess, was responsible for ensuring that the cloth or the knights' uniforms were in proper order. That is, as you can see, the structure was super branched, it had everything: finance, diplomacy, internal troops, external troops, and even, as we see, the agro-industrial complex. It was It was basically a giant corporation that did not obey any of the kings, had a huge amount of money. And you understand, where there is money, there are connections. You transport diplomatic mail, you learn some secrets, money is borrowed from you, because not only some simple uncle Vasya, kings borrow money from you, the Pope himself borrows money from you. You understand what level of issues you can solve. I started talking about battles. Indeed, the Templars were considered good warriors, not that they were considered, they really were good warriors. Warriors who never retreated, but here was one of the shameful moments. The year 1187 of the Crusaders throughout the Middle East is being crushed by the absolutely brilliant Arab warrior Salah Al-din. We know him by the name of Saladin. Which, in general, breaks these crusaders in the tail and in the mane. And during one of the battles, the Grand Master of the Order Gerard do Ridford gets captured by Saladin, spends some time there and was released. And evil tongues say that the grand master exchanged his freedom for the fact that he converted to Islam. A couple of centuries later, this legend will also be remembered by the French King Philip the Handsome. One of the high points in the history of the Templars in the Middle East is the capture of the city of Acre. It is 1911. The city is recaptured from the Muslims and the Templars enter the city. The city becomes part of the Kingdom of Jerusalem and another Templar headquarters in the Middle East unfolds in Acre along with Jerusalem. 100 years more, for 100 years the Templars have been in the Middle East and the city of Acre becomes their capital. In Acre, in addition to the Templars, there are two other orders: the Order of the Hospitallers and the Teutonic Order. The Teutonic Order, he will mainly be known for his deeds on the lands of the Prussians, the Balts. He will be known for his warriors with Poles and Russians on the other side of the world. But while they are there in the Holy Land, there is fierce competition between the orders. For example, when there is a war between two Italian republics, the Genoese and the Venetian - these are the two main traders on the Mediterranean Sea. Both republics hire on their side, some Templars, some Hospitallers, some Teutons. The Templars take an active part in all these feuds. I told you that they can not kill Christians, but in 1241, for example, they conspired, the Templars I mean, with Damascus, conspired against the Teutons and Hospitallers, and during the skirmishes they quite harshly cut out fellow competitors from other orders. As I have already told you, they have more and more money, more and more influence, and in general, in the Middle East, the Templars, of course, mainly fight on the side of Christian kings or on the side of the Franks, as the Arabs called them. But they absolutely do not disdain to enter into an alliance with Damascus, to enter into an alliance with some Arabs and with great pleasure to fight for money or for some political ambitions. a huge corporation that has its own fleet, which has its own banks, which have their own private military corporations. And then the first question becomes, because when we talk about the Europe of the Middle Ages, then there is no such thing: a nation of the French, a nation of the English. it'll show up later. A nation of Spaniards. England and France will be born as nations during the Hundred Years' War, when the Spaniards will win and finally expel the Arabs from the Iberian Peninsula. So far, this is still a feudally fragmented Europe, where the power of kings is just beginning to strengthen and it is unclear, or rather it is clear that of course the Templar Order is an organization that is probably more influential than some kings. Perhaps not more influential than the King of England or the king of France, let alone a king from some Hungary or the Czech Republic... of course, who is more important than the Templar. Of course, it is more important to negotiate with them. It is in these 100 years that the Templars acquire the peak of their power. At the same moment there is a fall of the Western Kingdoms, fall of the Crusader kingdoms. Because the crusades are losing their popularity, luring people into them is becoming more and more difficult. Because in in one of the crusades, the Crusader brothers plunder Constantinople, which is a Christian city. There is a constant massacre, money withdrawal, internecine strife already between the crusaders themselves in the Middle East.And the idea of a crusade falls into oblivion. Naturally, in order to protect their possessions, a constant influx of people from Western Europe is needed, but there is no influx. The Templars certainly have some kind of influx, but also not so serious. This is used by the Muslim rulers of the surrounding area, they gradually tighten their iron grip and kingdom by kingdom they overturn the crusaders into the sea and expel them. At some point, namely by 1291, the city of Acre, where the Templar headquarters stands, becomes the last stronghold of the Western knights or Crusaders in the Holy Land. In 1291, Acre comes to an end - this is an epic assault, which should be told separately. It all starts with the fact that, having remained the last stronghold of the Crusaders, Acre is crying out for help to Western Europe and now the Pope is sending mercenaries. 1600 soldiers from Lombardy sail to the city of Acre and everything would be fine, but there is one small nuance: Pope of course sent them, but did not say who would pay for it. And they say, &quot;We are fighting here in the name of Christ, why are we going to pay? We won't pay you.&quot;. The King of Cyprus, which at that time is the last big major crusader kingdom, he also does not want to pay for it. What do mercenaries do? Like all mercenaries at all times, they go outside the city, because the Templars do not allow them to rob in the city and begin to rob the neighborhood. They start robbing the neighborhood, they start taking cattle, provisions, money from people. And at some point, a skirmish also begins in the city, because it is necessary to understand how life is arranged: this is not a city in which only Templars, Hospitallers, Teutons and other residents of this city sit, they are all Catholics too. No, absolutely not, Jews live in the city, Muslims live in the city. Moreover, the Templars agree with the Muslim rulers that you do not offend our pilgrims, and we will not touch your Muslim population in Acre either, they have a mosque, please. And all this somehow exists, that is, there are no such absolutely ruthless clear boundaries. If the war is not going on. And now the Lombards are attacking Muslims, robbing, slaughtering, of course raping someone. And this becomes known to Sultan Kalaun, who by that time is already one of the most serious players in the Middle East, this is the Mamluk Sultan, he demands immediate ... Of course, in fact, his goal is to demolish Acre, demolish the Crusaders, already liberate the Neighbor East of the Franks. And he uses this beating of Muslims as an excuse, he sends a letter to the city of Acre and says: &quot;Dear fellow Templars! Extradite the criminals, arrest them, send them to me. I will judge them myself. To which the Templars replied: &quot;No, we have found everyone, dear Sultan, we will punish everyone. And the Templars make a feint, they take, pull out of prison convicted of serious crimes, murders, robberies and violence and I think there are 10 people there and they say: &quot;Dear Sultan, you know, we executed the instigators.&quot; The Sultan has his own spies everywhere, he says: &quot;Well, listen, let's finish these games. You are deceiving me and that's why I will come myself and punish your rapists here.&quot; He gathers a huge army and in the autumn of 1290 he moves to Acre. But in the campaign he dies and his work is continued by his son Khalil, who next year in 1291 in March moves to storm Acre. Now it is difficult to understand how many people he had, according to various estimates from 60,000 to 600,000. I think there were not 600 thousand, there were 60 thousand quite possibly. In general, as I now understand, the storming of Acre has become a tool for filming all films about the Middle Ages or all fantasy. Well, in particular, I'm sure that the writers and directors of the battle scenes were inspired by them when shooting Game of Thrones and filming the Lord of the Rings. Now I'll explain why. This huge army of Mamluks is moving towards the city of Acre. There are about 15 thousand fighters in the city. These are Templars, Hospitallers, Teutons and royal units. They are preparing to guard Acre. A huge number of throwing machines, ballistas, catapults are moving with the Mamluks. Each catapult was built so huge that each catapult had its own name: Mighty, Merciless, The Avenger and so on. That is, if you remember if you remember the storming of Gondor in the Lord of the Rings, there is this huge ram, in which the fire was in the wolf's mouth, it was also called somehow. And these things, this is something mystical, when inanimate objects like cities acquire their names. Of course, this instills almost magical horror. The siege of Acre looks down and sees that the whole valley is strewn with scarlet tents, it's the sultan's army that has come. The same 60,000 people who are starting to place catapults, ballistas and stone-throwing machines in front of the city of Acre. What is an Acre? Now it is located on the territory of modern Israel, it is a city, high fortress walls, in front of the fortress wall on one side is a moat, and on the other side is the sea. And this is a huge advantage, because the city cannot be cut off from water and provisions. The residents of the city have their own fleet. And now the siege begins.How does it happen? A classic siege is to take a city in a circle, deprive it of provisions (i.e. food, water) and the city will surrender itself. At the same time, you can also throw all sorts of stones at it, storm it in, try to fill up the moat that is in front of the city with earth and go on the assault. It was more difficult with Acre, because you can't block it from the sea, ships were constantly coming up, bringing food and water. There is water supply in the city, everything is fine there. The Mamluks are trying to approach the walls and fill up the moat, they are shot from the walls with such a hail of arrows, bolts from crossbows, boiling resin, boiling water, that it is absolutely impossible to approach this, the moat cannot be filled in, because fortification, or rather engineering of the Middle Ages is arranged in such a way that sappers come, the moat falls asleep, they begin to dig up the tower that the tower, the fortress wall was collapsing. This cannot be done, moreover, the Templars, using their own flotilla, put catapults on ships and shoot at the Mamluks with fragments of rocks from the sea. are protected by cowhide shields and it is impossible to pierce them with a bow in any way. One of the catapults was so big that the ship was overloaded and at some point sank. Using the fleet, the defenders of the city land troops. One night they land, because the cavalry is there and the cavalry is fighting well. And this cavalry is landed on the shore, it tries to seize the Sultan's camp at night, but the horses in the dark get bewildered by the ropes with which the tents are nailed to the ground, (fall, confusion begins. In the Arab chronicles there is a mention that the head of this sortie at night, without seeing where he was going, got into the cesspool with the horse, that is, into the toilet and actually drowned there. I don't know if it really happened or not, but in general, all this has been happening for quite a long time. But on May 17, the Mamluks finally manage to fill up the moat. How? They built huge screens, these are stretched cowhides stretched between two wooden sticks and there are several wooden sticks that cover the sappers from above from being shot at with a bow and a crossbow.They make a tunnel and the assault on Acre begins on May 18. The first part of the bastion fell, the evacuation of the civilian population begins, because the first encircling wall is collapsing, the second remains. The city begins to evacuate. The Templars manage to save their treasury, they load it onto galleys, the galleys leave for the island of Cyprus and the Templars (to give them their due) they provide cover for the evacuation of the civilian population. A huge number of people are drowning, because it is clear that all this is happening in a big panic.In particular, the patriarch fills his boat with people, so many people he takes on board so many people he takes on board, that the boat sinks together with the patriarch. The Templars take refuge in the castle and the storming of this castle was really difficult. The Mamluks at some point finish storming it and decide to deal with the Templars in peace. How? They agree that the Templars take weapons, insignia, flags and calmly leave the fortress, board the galleys and leave. of the movie Kingdom of Heaven, only there it was about the assault of Jerusalem. The Templars come out, at the same moment one of the Mamluk military leaders is walking around the city and he sees that the sultan's standard is raised on the last one on the main Templar tower on the magister tower and he sees that there is some kind group of local people. And he and his squad are trying to capture them or rob them, not realizing that it is according to the agreement that the Templars and the last civilians are leaving the city. The Templars are fiercely resisting him, in such way that the Templars violated the terms of the truce. He announces the next assault. The Templars around 200 people, remain in the tower and the last assault begins. Speaking about Acre and the retreat of the Templars, I would like to say that, for example, Guillaume de Beaujeu, a man who was at that moment the master of the Templars, he fought on the front edge during the siege and died. When there was the first assault, an arrow hit him and when he saw that the Templars were starting to retreat, he turned around and said, &quot;Don't you see? I'm not running! I'm dying!&quot; He was taken to the hospital, he died there within a few hours. But really they showed absolutely unimaginative miracles of bravery. Returning to the last assault. 200 people with a small number of civilians are hiding in the magister tower, on May 30, the assault begins, that is, what kind of assault? Sappers dug up this tower, the tower crumbled and the last defenders of Acre died there. And those who did not die were finished off by the Mamluks accordingly. This is how Acre fell and thus ended the era of the Templars in the Middle East. They are moving to Europe. After 50 years, the pilgrim Ludolf Saddam travels to the Middle East and meets two old men with families who turn out to be the last two Templars. They somehow survived, they converted they were not touched. They and their families live in the mountains, grazing or shearing sheep there, in general, some kind of peaceful craft. They told that they are the last two Templars and Ludolf did everything so that they and their families are evacuated to their homeland. They are received by the Pope, the story that they converted to Islam is of course immediately hushed up, they will tell that here they are the last two heroes, 50 years later they returned to their homeland. This is how the history of the Templars in the Middle East ended and the last period of the history of the Templars began already in Europe. The last part of the Templar history is connected with France. In general, the Templar Order is associated with France. The majority, the overwhelming majority of all its grand masters are French nobles. The Order makes its capital Paris, or rather there will be a fortified fortress in the center of the city of Paris. Nowadays it hasnt been preserved. Before we talk about the defeat of the Templars, we need to tell about the French King Philip the Handsome. I have already said that at this, when the war begins because of the formation of the nation, the war for a rigid centralized state, Philip the Handsome is the man who began to consolidate France, fighting with everyone in a circle: with the British, with Flanders, with the Burgundians, with small and large feudal lords, subordinating them to his will. Naturally, this war requires money, Philip constantly needs money, the French crown constantly needs money. Where to get money? Of course, money should be taken from banks. But there are no banks, there are usurers and the main usurers are Jews. Philip the Handsome arranges several Jewish pogroms. In particular, Jews are accused on all sorts of far-fetched grounds that they eat children, for example, or that means they somehow blaspheme the faith of the cross. All their money is being withdrawn from them, and Jews are being expelled from France. And actually, why is the Jewish Island the one where the last Templar master was burned? Why is it called Jewish? Because a Jewish family was burned there. Precisely because they are (I don't remember this accusation anymore, there the child was eaten or there they spat on the ikon). But they were accused of something because they were a family of loan sharks. Money was taken from them. Philip is constantly engaged in the seizure of money from Jews, from Italian moneylenders and from some aristocrats with whom the crown is at war from time to time. That is, the crown needs money, the crown receives this money. The second part of Philip's war is a very important war against the Pope. Because (well, the war is cold after all. Weapons, even Philip the Handsome did not reach this point, you can't fight with the Pope with weapons) who is the main ruler of the Western world? The King or the Pope? The Pope believed that it was him. Because by God's grace. And I am the representative of God on earth, that is, the highest authority. Therefore, let you obey me.&quot; The apotheosis of this war is the war of Philip with Pope Boniface VIII. First there were arguments in letters, then at some point Philip forbids the export of precious stones, silver, gold and copper from France. This means that the Pope is deprived of income from French churches. The Pope immediately calls Philip the Handsome to his court and says: &quot;In general, I am the representative of God on earth here. You're only a king at all, that's why you're coming to Rome. I will judge you.&quot; And the exchange of letters begins. The pope issues several bulls accusing Philip the Handsome of arbitrariness. And in France, in the elite of France, fermentation begins. Because the elite also does not understand now it is necessary to support the Pope or Philip: &quot;What if the Pope now excommunicates Philip from the church and what? Will we be sinners together with him?&quot; But still, the elite was already more attached to the local king than to the Pope. And at this moment Philip the Handsome gathers the States-General. Many consider this to be the foundations of parliamentarism in France, because the States-General is the highest deliberative estate body, where there are representatives of all estates who gather at important moments for the country to make important decisions. In fact, he gathered them so that the elite would say &quot;We are together with our king, we are against the Pope.&quot; And indeed, the elites say this, and Philippe thus demonstrates that France, or rather the elites, have completely firmly rallied around their king, that is, &quot;We are not afraid of the Pope.&quot; Philippe sends his representatives to Rome. According to rumors, Boniface XVIII is being killed, perhaps he is dying himself, perhaps he is being killed and Philip the Handsome is behind it. And at this point, another important historical event begins - this is the Avignon captivity of the Popes. Indeed, the Popes were not always in Rome. Philip the Handsome, hiding behind the fact that the time is very rebellious, constant strife, war between small and large feudal lords, it is very dangerous for the pope to be, he proposed to make the city of Avignon the capital of the papacy. And popes move there for several decades. The so - called The Avignon captivity of the Popes starts. The pope is mostly chosen exclusively from the French at that moment , and Clement V becomes the first such pope. As you understand, all these Popes of the Avignon captivity period are directly dependent on the French king. And this is probably the moment of the highest heyday, the highest point of the French state of the Middle Ages. And now comes the year 1307, the year when the Templars are smashed. What happened? Philip the Handsome, tough autocrat king, who defeated the most obstinate local feudal lords, who defeated the Pope, looks around and realizes that in addition to the royal power in France there is the power of the Templars. They have a lot of supporters, they have a lot of lands and castles, they have a huge amount of money. The most important thing is that they have a huge number of influential debtors. Pope Clement V owes the Templars money, Philip the Handsome owes the Templars money. There is a legend that during the Paris uprising of the rabble in 1306, Jacques De Molay, the grand master of the Templars, hid Philip the Handsome in the Templars in his castle. And there Philip saw how the Templars live, a huge amount of treasures, gold, precious stones, the cellars are filled with them. And Philip the Handsome thought that of course with so much money and freedom, well, this is some kind of flaw. And Philip began to prepare an unprecedented police action. On October 12, the daughter-in-law of Philip the Handsome is buried and Jacques De Male, the Grand Master of the Templars, becomes one of the main organizers of the funeral procession. That is, nothing portends trouble. The king is next to him, the Templars, influential respected members of society, are hand in hand with him. The next day is Friday the 13th (it is from here that the belief is believed to have gone that Friday the 13th is a bad number). And at night, on Friday the 13th, Templars were arrested all over France at the same time by order of the king. First, Jacques de Molay was arrested then Hugo de Perot, his general visitor, is arrested, and Templars are being seized all over the country and put in prison. This raises a question that I don't have an answer to. How did they allow to get arrested? If they had connections everywhere, there were spies everywhere.I have no explanation for this. I think that at that moment the Templars considered themselves a state within a state. Such an influential corporation that they thought: &quot;Well, what can they do to us? Well, according to the king's slander, now even if we are captured, we will fight back. Well, I mean, either we will pay off, or after all (we are subordinate to the Pope), the Pope will intercede for us and solve the issue. But it didn't happen. Here I must say that Philip the Handsome was a cruel man, but very cunning and resourceful. Obviously, at all times you can't just take someone and arrest them. Especially if this someone is a respected member of society. The necessary Pr campaign needed. As unprecedented as the police action was, the Pr campaign was just as cool. The Templars are accused of the gravest heresies, of renouncing Jesus Christ, of having secret rites, spitting crucifixions. The worship of the idol of Baphomet means the goat-bearded horned with hooves idol Satan, who is the main pillar of the Templar society in general. According to legends in the basement, in Paris, it is made of pure gold in the eyes of emeralds, they worship him and instead of crosses around their necks they wear ropes with which this figure of Baphamet is wrapped. They are accused that they eat people, that Satan personally attends their meals. They kiss this idol in obscene places, well, it's clear in which ones. They do not bury the brothers of the deceased, but cremate them, and mix the ashes into food and eat at common meals. And then two points. I told you that one of the grand masters, That 100 years ago he converted to Islam and since then the Templars have converted to Islam and also believe in Satan. Here is such a mixture of beliefs, and most importantly - the seal. Here you see two knights riding on the same horse. The Templars will tell you this from poverty, but in fact this is the main gay community. Well, of course, two men are riding a horse. Why are they riding a horse? Why is one hugging the other? Well, it's clear why? They are accused of sodomy and even bestiality. In general, such a set of theses is thrown out on the heads of the uneducated French population. And of course everyone is horrified, because it is clear that the money is from Satan and from homosexuals, well, where else can there be money. It is clear that a man of the Middle Ages (not only medieval, nowadays they are happy to believe it). In general, the arrest of Templars all over the country begins, the trial begins. The Templars are tortured, the Inquisition acts in the cruelest way. And Grand Master Jacques de Male and Hugues de Pairaud, and hundreds of knights across the country plead guilty to all this. Yes, they say Baphomet was kissed in obscene places, cremated dead comrades, engaged in bestiality, engaged in sodomy every day. Naturally, it was possible to admit that they even tried to eat the Pope. And many of the tortures do not stand up and confess and a long trial begins.That is, in 1307, everyone was captured, and trials continue until 1311. Pope Clement does not intercede, moreover, Philip involves him in this story and the Pope becomes one of the main accusers. In October 1311, a trial takes place at the Avignon Cathedral. On it, the churchmen, led by the Pope, decide to dissolve the Templar Order. For several years, the order has been smashed, the Templars have been imprisoned for life, they go out or leave the prison being really old. Some of the money can be withdrawn, and the bulk of the Templar treasures disappear. And this is one of the main legends that I will tell you about a little later. What does this mean from the point of view of history? Philip the handsome wins the main victory in the history of his reign, he subdues the papacy and transplants it to Avignon, he smashes the most important transnational corporation in Europe, this is the Templar Order and takes their money. Money is taken for a reason, after all, Philip the Handsome tried to put everything in such a pseudo-legality. The money is withdrawn in favor of the Roman Church and transferred by the order to the Order of the Hospitallers. This is a poor order, let's give the money there. And after some of the Templar money comes there, Philip the Handsome withdraws it from there. Because we have been conducting lawsuits, we kings have been conducting years, so we need to pay it. And you will pay for that. It turns out that you are now the heirs of the Templar treasures. And their money was somehow seized by Philip the Handsome. Trials of the Templars are taking place all over Europe and in all countries they are taking place with varying success. For example, in Spain, the Templars are practically not persecuted, in Italy with varying success, in Germany managed to escape further there, to Scotland. Sure, nowhere is such lawlessness happening to them as in France. According to legend, the Templars' treasures, including the famous Holy Grail cup, are taken out by the Templars. Two orders are being created. The first order is the Order of Mantez. This is an order in Spain, it becomes very influential, and that's why it is believed that the French treasures of the Templars went to Spain. And then the Order of Christ appears in Portugal, in which these purple crosses are also worn. And when I say that the glory of the Templars will be ahead of them by several centuries, when the era of great sea discoveries, great geographical discoveries will come, caravels under the Templar cross on their sails will go to discover new lands. And there the Order of Christ will exist for a very long time. It will be very influential and no one will touch them. Some of the Templars will still settle in Scotland. On October 13, 1307, the King of France, Philip IV the Handsome, orders the arrest of the master of the Templar Order, Jacques de Molay, for being a heretic and engaged in obscene affairs. After a fair trial with support Pope Clement V, the last master of the Templar Order was arrested and burned on the island behind me with the words &quot;The Lord protects our death.&quot; Jacques de Molay and Geoffroy de Charlet two people were burned on the Jewish Island. Different dates are given: March 11, March 14 or March 18, 1314, they ascended to the stake, previously Jacques de Molay recanted all his confessions, he said that the confessions were made under torture. And so, according to legend, from his campfire he curses Philip the Handsome and curses Pope Clement and says that &quot;In less than a year I will call you to Clement will die on April 20. Philip the Handsome will die in November of the same year. According to legend, he will have a stroke while hunting and he will die. In addition, Jacques de Male cursed all the French kings up to the 13th generation, and indeed the children of Philip the Handsome die one after another without leaving descendants, and actually Charles 4 the last of the Capetians also dies without leaving offspring in the male line. Thus, the Capetian family is dying out. Moreover, there is another legend that when, already in a later period in the 18th century, the Great French Revolution takes place and when Louis 16 is executed on the guillotine, after his head is cut off, a man climbs onto the scaffold, touches the scaffold with his hand, touches the blood that remained after Louis 16 and shouts in the crowd &quot;Jacques De Molay, you are avenged.&quot; Well, of course we can't check it, but the legend of the Middle Ages ended its days. I have already said that two orders, one in Spain, the other in Portugal, were formed after the defeat of the Templars, but in general, the history of the Templars goes even further. The Rosicrucian Order of Germany considered itself the heir of the Templars, the Masons of modern times, some modern Masonic lodges consider themselves the heirs of the Templars. In America, there is an order called 'Children members. Even in Russia there is a Templar sect. I started Googling, I saw a photo of funny-looking people, so we won't insert them here. Because this is completely clowning. What I want to say at the end. This is how the main transnational corporation of the Middle Ages was defeated, thus the answer was given that where will Europe go? It will follow the path of rigid absolute monarchies, or she will continue her path in this feudal fragmentation and Popes, monastic orders will be more important than royal families. Europe, following France, chose the hard path of absolute monarchy. To end on a romantic note, I would like to say that many historians (French in particular) later working with the archives the Templars were lied to, that they were not to blame for everything. They just wanted to deprive of money and influence. Therefore, in this way Philip the Handsome dealt with them. But one thing is certain with the end of the Templar Order , that very romantic one leaves Medieval chivalric Europe, Europe of the Crusades, Europe of noble knights, Europe of the defenders of the Holy Sepulchre and a completely different Europe begins.