- [Narrator] This video was Click the link down below to get 70% off an annual subscription, plus an additional month free. Also, stun your friends, turn heads, get compliments. Buy yourself some along with a very honest Link in the description down below. Okay, Mrs. Lincoln, this is it. One last push and we're done. (grunting) Nine months and four days ago. My father brought forth and gave to her a child and dedicated to the proposition that I will drink num-nums from a bottle and do little poo poos in my pantses for the next two to three years. Now, what is it babies do again? Oh yeah. (cries loudly) I am not touching that. Abraham Lincoln grew up with his relatively poor family in Kentucky, eventually moving to Indiana, and finally, Illinois. He read a lot of books, wrote some questionable poetry and finally entered the law profession. Despite being self-taught, he turned out to be a pretty In one case, a guy claimed he and Lincoln was like, &quot;How in the dark?&quot; &quot;There was a bright full moon.&quot; &quot;A what?&quot; &quot;A bright full moon.&quot; &quot;Can you say that again, please?&quot; &quot;There was a bright full moon.&quot; &quot;A dim half moon?&quot; &quot;No, a bright full moon.&quot; &quot;That's funny because &quot;there was a dim half moon that night which makes you a liar!&quot; &quot;Uh... &quot;Well, I got a bright full &quot;Now that's what I call a rebuttal.&quot; (claps loudly) - [Narrator] Lincoln and his cheekbones, weren't only interested in law however, he also dabbled in the world of politics, serving as a legislator in both local and national assemblies. And what a time it was. Not even 100 years after all men are created equal. Politicians were already asking, yeah, but what does that mean exactly? It means all men. Yeah, but what does that mean... Exactly? And not just that states' rights versus the federal government. What are the executive Is cereal a soup? The founding fathers left perhaps a little too And the biggest question an ugly mark, and what should have been a revolutionary new nation Thomas Jefferson had written in the declaration of independence, but out of fear of losing it was removed. Hey guys, do you think will create any unforeseen Cannonball. And those unforeseen problems were now beginning to As the nation developed the along two very different lines and two very different Northern cities began while the Southern climate of labor-intensive crops. As a result, one half of the while the other half dependent on them. In 1793, Eli Whitney's cotton in the South to explode, while in the North a growing was taking root. A general mistrust began to and the South. As Northerners felt the on expanding slavery and fear that the North wanted to In 1819, there were 11 free states and 11 slave states, a perfect balance, a happy medium, a harmonious relationship. Hey guys, nice to meet you. I'm Missouri, and I would Hey buddy, welcome to the nation. We'll be happy to accept No, you don't. You're trying to get one over on us. Missouri is gonna be a slave state. Okay, listen why don't what it wants to be... Slave state. Well, then allow me to introduce to you the newest freshest state Hey, you can't do that. And you can't have any more What? The issue of slavery is solved and it will never come up again. A few years later, it came up again. You see, as America expanded westward, each new state or territory that was added threatened to up and the delicate and free States. If one faction managed it could gain an easy majority on the opposing side leaving a huge portion of the population, feeling spiteful and depressed. For awhile compromises, and kept the volatile balance in check as new free and slave states but then one landmass mass and ruin everything as usual. (gun shots) The addition of Texas enter into a war with gaining a huge amount of land out West and creating even more problems. Hey guys, nice to meet you. I'm California and I would Hey buddy, welcome to the nation. We'll be happy to accept you No, you don't. You're trying to get one over on us. California is gonna be a free state. Okay, listen, why don't we just ask and we can... Free state. Well, then allow me to introduce to you the territories of New Mexico and Utah able to freely vote Hey, you can't do that! And we can enter Northern to recapture escaped slaves! What? The issue of slavery is solved and it will never come up again. (crowd shouts loudly) A few years later, it came up again. In 1854 a democratic Senator from Illinois wanted to build a really and proposed the territories be created open to slavery, even though they were clearly above the Missouri compromise line. Obviously the Northern But the Southern Democrats at the time were like, and democracy so much, then you should let them should be legal or not.&quot; And so it was. Huge numbers of pro and rushed to Kansas to sway And while they were all there, they began to beat crap out of each other. One of the settlers was a former businessman who failed at just about everything he He was a radical abolitionist to the underground railroad One night in revenge for an earlier rate by pro-slavery forces, he and his sons killed a in the territory, helping to known as Bleeding Kansas. Kansas and Nebraska both of outlawing slavery. But from here, the tension In 1852 author Harriet Beecher Stowe penned Uncle Tom's Cabin, a bestselling novel that of slavery to the world. How awful. How morally corrupted nation must be to allow such things to happen. Your majesty, what should we do about all the starving children Nothing! In 1854, the Republican party was formed, and Abraham Lincoln emerged Southern Democrats viewed with mistrust, believing it to In 1856 a politician named Charles Sumner gave a speech in Congress, calling out slave owning &quot;If slavery was a woman, &quot;And the Senator from South Carolina &quot;would like to boink her.&quot; Representative Brooks, I have a rebuttal, all right? Yeah, here's a rebuttal for you. (loud bangs) Come on, surely this isn't allowed. I dunno. I'll have to consult the rule book. Hmm, I can't find anything about caning a political opponent, allowed to wear a woman's underwear. News of the violence, on the Senate floor took Southern slave owners sent to replace his now broken one. And on the floors of Congress, in self-defense, which In 1857, the Supreme court that all people of African descent slave or free could not be citizens and therefore could not under any circumstances, undoing years of progress Now within all this there were many nuances Republican versus Democrat, States versus the federal government. But let's strip all of that away. For 4 million individuals this wasn't about political It was about the basic Men, women and children were and brought to the American they were considered to be property, forced to live in poverty and work from sunrise to sunset, plantation overseers did whatever they felt was necessary to get Punishments were often barbaric. Families were regularly separated and parents could often only watch as their children were auctioned off, never to be seen again. Thousands of slaves took of running away and many escape by the underground railroad. As bounty hunters entered Leading figures within included many significant But it's important to note that from many of the anti-slavery in the North, opposition to slavery was not a moral one. As many worried large plantations and livelihoods away. Abraham Lincoln knew that and he regularly spoke out against it in powerful speeches that helped him rise through the ranks of the He lamented at the hypocrisy of a great American nation meant to stand as a shining beacon of freedom while also enslaving 4 million He most famously declared against itself cannot stand, that one day, slavery However, even Lincoln was He didn't want to outlaw it entirely but simply prevent its expansion. So that given enough naturally die out. Thankfully history would force his hand. In October, 1859 one abolitionist decided he tried to single-handedly take down slavery by force. Who'd be crazy enough to Ah, it's our good friend, John Brown. He planned to seize arms of Harper's ferry, free the slaves there and continue South inciting along the way, a noble cause, a bad plan, and terrible execution. Brown's van took the but we're quickly surrounded and his US Marine. Brown was captured, and he was executed for treason. Northerners sympathized with Brown, but Southerners were like you see this, they're coming for us. Soon, there'll be a million John Browns. A million John Browns? What on earth are you thinking about? The John Brown farm. Yeah, me too. To make matters worse, new Northern free States really were outnumbered feel bitterly, spiteful and oppressed. Further fear began to spread in the South, when news broke that a relatively secured the Republican party Abraham Lincoln mostly well northerners had made some worded speeches against at the time. And now there was a chance that he and his cheekbones for the South, that would be too much. In the 1860 election, Lincoln's name, didn't in 10 Southern States, when the final results came in Lincoln had won by an Lincoln himself tried to calm their fear. How many times do I have to tell you, I'm not gonna take away your slaves? Yeah, right honest Abe. We've had enough of you northerners. We're gonna go form our own country. You can't do that. Why not? Well, if you had won the election, would it be okay for us to leave? Of course not. Well, why not? Because that's not how Many States felt that they always withheld the right to leave it whenever they pleased. Many people living in 19th felt more loyalty to their And now with the South feeling in the federal government, South Carolina was the first to go. And over a period of six months, officially succeeded from the union with just four contested The succeeding States issued a number of official documents South Carolina proclaimed hostility to slavery that rendered the federal government illegitimate. Mississippi declared that their position was thoroughly identified with the institution of The Confederate vice-president stated that the new Confederate government rested upon what he called the great Revered American generals, such as Robert E. Lee opted to side with their States over the union. And with all the chaos, that rather than a bold bird should be a debilitated chicken. And hey, I kind of like that. One man watching the crisis unfold knew it would be his job to solve it. Lincoln was just about to hop on a train and become the president of Hey man, you're hella ugly Grow a beard or something Hmm, good idea. Hmm. Still ugly With assassination plots already underway, Lincoln had to travel to Washington DC, under heavy disguise and protection. All along the way he received May the hand of the devil strike you down. You are destroying this country. Damn you every breath you At his inauguration speech Lincoln once again, reiterated that, no, I do not wanna take but for Lincoln, he did He declared succession to be nothing but an illegitimate rebellion He said is the momentous You can have no conflict the aggressors, we are It was clear Lincoln was ready and open up a can of whether he had the support of the people, however, was in question. In the end it was the Confederates that fired the first shot. As they succeeded the Confederate States began throughout the South. Off the coast of Charleston South Carolina was one such federal property, Fort Sumpter, held by a measly The Confederate militia there a request, which was quickly denied and any remaining hope to the secession crisis probably then died when the Confederates did this. The battle of Fort Sumpter is of the American Civil War. Many of the Confederates be the end of the American Civil War. They hoped old Abe would just Unfortunately for them, &quot;You're about to get a Lincoln sent out the call and men signed up in droves hopeful for some adventure and In the new Confederate Confederate president Jefferson Davis and his cheekbones had for 100,000 men. As ever both sides hope Is it over yet? No, Jimmy it's been one week. Is it over now? No. How about now? If you ask that one more time I swear I will turn this army around and you'll all have to go back home to your wives and But in particular, the South knew the conflict would How can we expect to win with a population of only 5 million against If you count us 4 million slaves you'd have 9 million, great idea. Hand these rifles to all you almost had me there. The problem for Lincoln was that many of his top generals were getting old and were being a bit too cautious. The commanding general was a veteran of the Mexican American war. And by now he was too fat Okay chaps, we need to come up with a plan, hit me. We could wait for the Confederates Maybe we should all sit in a circle and discuss our feelings. Crossing the Delaware into Those are all terrible Hey, I'm the greatest president in the history of this nation. Yeah, we'll see about that Dingus. Eventually Lincoln's generals came up with a multi-pronged strategy. First, a blockade would cut off and starve the South of supplies by sea. Secondly, taking control of the great Mississippi South's economic artery And finally a main union force and take the Confederate bada-boom bada-bing. Skirmishes began to break out across the nation and the union army in the East began to move Everything seemed to be going well until they reached Manassas where they came upon a It's almost like they were waiting for us. How did they know? As it turned out, spies in to the Confederates Did you use Nord VPN? What the heck is Nord VPN? I'm so glad you asked. Do you use the internet? Me too. Do you like internet safety? Me too. Hey, we should hang out sometimes, so I can tell you about Nord VPN. Nord VPN has over 5,000 in 60 countries that allow with that personal data logging. Not only does it help you stay secure, but with just the click of a button, you can take a quick trip to Sweden and enjoy some Is there some amazing content on YouTube, that's still blocked in your country? Not to fear, Nord VPN is here. Nord VPN gives you access to and it has a 30 day money back guarantee. So click the link in the description below and use promo code off an annual subscription. That's only 349 a month, plus Again, that's nordvpn.com/oversimplified. And as always, you'll be So thank you. Now, where were we? Oh yeah, succession, fat man, and the union invasion into Virginia. The two sites encountered each other at Manassas and both geared up for the first major The first battle of Bull Run. The Confederates rapidly and the two sites were However, they were also A large number of civilians also wrote out by carriage from DC to picnic on the nearby hills and Nobody seemed to quite understand how destructive this war was going to be. The union forces pulled hit the Confederates on their left and the two sides fired Farm families living in the area were forced to flee the fighting including a man named Wilmer McLean. Hurry up, Martha, there's a war out here. The more you tell me to hurry The union foresaw initial success pushing the Confederates But one as of yet, fairly unknown general Thomas Jackson had arrived and he took a defensive position standing from like a Stonewall, and finally sending them running back to Washington DC with heavy casualties. The sobering reality of and the North having just lost the first major battle had to face that they may not actually win this war. President Lincoln, General the Confederates are calling Wait, that's why they're calling him that? Not because he looks like he ran face first into a Stonewall? Apparently not. Worse yet, the North had also out West giving away control All of this was terrible Especially since many of his generals in cabinet already didn't They felt he wasn't because he seemed a bit like He famously loved a long-winded I've been so busy. My wife is missing me, but her But deep down do you be incredibly shrewd. Oh Abe, you're so funny. Funny how? Funny, like I'm a clown? Abe, I was just. No, no funny how, like During the war Lincoln by some as impeachable. His administration from printing articles Some Southern sympathizers without a trial. Lincoln's criticizers began but to quote the man himself, &quot;Hey it's war, baby. &quot;What are you gonna do?&quot; By the end of 1861 with for the North, abolitionists such as Frederick that the union army weren't He continued to put pressure about emancipation. Mr. President, it's time to I don't wanna ruffle any feathers. The feathers are already ruffled. But Lincoln hanging on to hope for a quick end to the conflict, continued to fight only for It was decided, however, from the Confederacy could And many of these men were put to work, bolstering the unions, Hoping to get things moving, Lincoln made young the new commanding general up his men. He thought a lot of himself, was going to be the nation's great savior. Unlike many others, he didn't handling of the war. On one occasion, Lincoln went with him, but McClellan He kept the president waiting. And when he finally got there, he just straight up went to bed. Now that's what I call disrespectful. McClellan talked the talk, No, like Lincoln's other generals, McClellan was maddeningly cautious. Hey man, could you move What are you crazy? What if they have a big, They probably do. What? Oh my gosh. McClellan worried that he he needed to fight effectively. What if they have like 10,000 men? Okay, no problem. We'll get you 20,000 men. Well, what if they have 30,000 men? I'll need 40. Okay, you can have 40. Well, what if they have 50 I'll need 60. Lincoln tried but it was all in vain. McClellan would not make a The North's one saving grace for now, was a General out west fighting General Ulysses S. Grant and a big fan of whiskey. His chief of staff took it upon One officer said that Grant as though he were through a brick wall And that determination of key victories when others At the battle of Fort why does Stonewall Jackson get I want a cool nickname. Sir, the Confederate say and wanna know your terms. No terms. Just unconditional surrender. Hey, Unconditional Surrender Grant. That's a pretty cool Later in April, 1862, a sudden attack on Grant's army at Shiloh but the determined through his lines at the The battle resulted in in US history so far. And despite his victory, Grant You have to get rid of Grant. Why? Didn't he win? Yes, but he just threw Isn't that the point? Also he's a loony drunk. Well, what does he like to drink? I believe whiskey, sir. Then send him more. Lincoln watched as his cabinet And his generals did nothing personal tragedy struck Very much loved by the at the age of 11. Lincoln was a sensitive man and was heavily effected by the loss. His wife was inconsolable but one of Lincoln's greatest traits, what made him such a great leader was in the darkest of times with composure and determination, He knew it was his and his family together. And by doing so, he hoped and he had had it with Lincoln decided he was gonna take control. In March, 1862 Lincoln firmly ordered McClellan to once again McClellan insisted to the Virginia Peninsula and attack Richmond from the South East. Yes, said Lincoln. Okay, anything. Lincoln held onto some of from a nearby Stonewall in the Shenandoah Valley. And he sent McClellan South. McClellan landed on the Peninsula and he began to move inland. He came up against a that had dug in at Yorktown. McClellan vastly outnumbered the force but it said that deceived McClellan by cleverly maneuvering his smaller force and making McClellan believe No, you have way more men No. McClellan settled in for a for Johnston to move South time to retreat. When he finally entered the he declared it a victory Then after meeting some McClellan moved to within his Army's able to hear in the enemy capital. You still outnumber them. Go give them hell. No. McClellan once again held back moving slowly and defensively. And with his army split saw an opportunity to strike back. McClellan's advance was halted, pulled an ace out of their sleep. General Lee, you're up. Do you think we should evacuate Richmond? No. Mr. President, no need. General. Robert E. Lee, one of the most brilliant of the time was now in charge. One of his biggest read the mind of his enemy cautious and weak after moving join him. And even though he had a in a series of fast paced, that had McClellan spook, army back again and again and and returning to DC. Lee had defeated McClellan Well, that was a major success. A success? Tell me exactly what was Well, we successfully retreated. You lost. I didn't lose. I merely failed to win. Things just kept looking At least their Navy had seen of key port cities, notably past Confederate forts And speaking of the Navy both sides have begun using ironclads. So that's pretty cool. But in the East, they still After McClellan's disastrous campaign, Lincoln briefly sent that to attack Northern Virginia. Hey man, just checking in. How's it going? Well, the Confederates kicked Then they raided my camp and ran off with my money and clothes. Also, I appear to have been wedgied. Lee defeated Pope at yet another battle at Bull Run in which nearby farm families, once again got caught up in the fighting. Hurry up, Martha, there's I'm waiting for my hair to dry. Wilmer McLean sick of war where he knew the war would definitely absolutely never touch him again. But Lincoln had yet another European powers in particular the UK we're looking increasingly like they may intervene diplomatically on the side of the Confederates. They were missing their precious supply of Southern cotton because And they wanted to see a The tension between had been increasing especially were discovered on a British ship. Now after McClellan's the UK declared it impossible Lincoln needed something to prevent Europe from getting involved. And after more petitioning he decided maybe the time was about ending the institution If the North had a noble Europe would be less likely to intervene but Lincoln and his could declare something as they needed a victory, especially now that the Confederates were Aware that he had a limited Lee now hoped that if he could just threaten he would gain Europe's recognition and crush Northern morale in time for the midterm elections, With confidence at an all-time high for the first time Robert but on September 13th, the Oh boy, it's my lucky day. That's a garner field. Hey, what's this wrapped around it? Oh my gosh. That's right. The North had discovered wrapped around some cigars and in them they saw that McClellan headed out from in the battle of Antietam. A crucial battle that would It saw the most vicious remains the single bloodiest But for once the North came out victorious and Lee was forced to retreat. He's on the run, chase him No. You know what old buddy The North had won their crucial victory. Lincoln breathed a huge sigh of relief. And with that wind, he was on September 22nd, the emancipation in January. All slaves held in the as the US government was Throughout the North rejoiced knowing that their brothers and sisters would no longer be held in bondage. The proclamation also on Europe who were not end slavery and outraged Lincoln had given the war a new meaning. It was no longer just about Now, it was about creating a new union, washed clean of its original sin, a union without slavery. (upbeat music)