We will never be able to leave the At the beginning of the 24th century, extensive ecological and climatic devastation completely consumed our planet, turning it rapid melting of ice had caused the seas entire cities and coastal regions. Deforestation and the loss of human and animal lives. Meanwhile, they were poisoning us, gradually transforming In the meantime, a small fraction of us looked to where? What were our chances of finding a planet protect humanity from the chaos it had created? and hundreds of Earth-like twins were quickly our home wasn't that unique. Hundreds of spacecraft, each as large as the some headed towards the Alpha Centauri system, traveling at relativistic speeds, propelled by and only the descendants of the departing Okay... evocative, isn't it? But how once we consider all our current technological believe that we are approaching an era (more But do you really think we will one day or that we will begin to roam the No... we firmly believe not, and with and demonstrate just that... that we humans our solar system. Follow us, and we'll explain! the human species into interstellar space 1 - scientific research, 2 - the need to habitable planets in the event of catastrophes The first point is one we feel compelled to should be pursued always and in any case. And activity in space. Increasingly intelligent without us having to descend onto planets If, however, we turn our attention to the highlight that there is no need to leave our at least, especially considering that between the of resources to exploit right where we are now. what could be the catastrophe capable of During the 1960s and 1970s, in conjunction of humans and industry to other celestial overpopulation and environmental degradation. the question - when we have the entire universe demographic problems by sending the excess Columbus? So, why can't we continue this process? from Stephen Hawking and Robert Zubrin to Elon is the only long-term defense against extinction. change, nuclear war, etc.) or due to the or some other cosmic phenomenon, being confined Okay, having a &quot;Planet B&quot; available to escape it should be clear to everyone that not all hypothetical new planet... It would only be a way our species the chance not to go extinct, but it Similarly, we must unfortunately give up the idea solved simply by a massive mass migration... consider that currently, the Earth's population This means that if we wanted to maintain we would have to transport 80 million An absolutely unattainable task even with vastly In short, just to understand, there is no underestimated problem must be found within However, let's assume for a moment that, for one humanity decides to leave the solar system How could it do that? mission to be carried out with a human crew, there will obviously be a need to build if not hundreds, of people... very simple undertaking. And anyway, what As we know, the main problem in space exploration insurmountable limit of the speed of light. traditional propulsion methods - be it chemical in the case of extragalactic journeys, that not only can the speed of light not fractions of its speed is a technological With today's technology, it would take thousands let's remember, is only the closest star, and even if, with some magical device, we it would still take 4.3 years to reach Proxima the maximum speed achievable in the universe, our Sun but certainly could not establish a network &quot;Before moving on, don't forget to subscribe make sure to hit the notification bell so But let's assume that we want to colonize a all objections raised so far about the sense of travel times, the only possible solution would large spacecraft capable of hosting hundreds animals needed for food and the invasion all in a self-sufficient environment. Given the old one until reaching the destination. issues, such as how to build a spaceship capable assistance or spare parts that are not already the propulsion system capable of moving such question, and atomic energy is as well... the for micro-probes. In short, we have no cards to such as micrometeoroids or radiation. the first generation would be composed of An alternative method would be to freeze the crew that will then be grown by AI educational programs let you imagine the ethical debates of such an futility of having a thousand children completely Moreover, ethical issues are not the only is a living planet, inhabited by various aside planets inhabited by a sentient species, incompatible with our ecosystem, leading to There is another problem: staying here on determine in advance which planets, identified what could we do? Would we be forced to embark a star, hoping that the few indications of by space telescopes turn out to be accurate? interstellar travel, we couldn't embark on for both the journey and the destination. preceded by one or more probes capable of a suitable planet is 50 light-years away from planet would be located after 2600. A potential the year 3100. This is enough to understand colonization of another planet is not a feasible capable of repairing environmental damage or But let's not give up so quickly. Yes, because mass is not the only quantity crucial factor in relativistic journeys is postulates, time does not flow uniformly for all measuring an event gets to the speed of light! explanations, we must trust the verified accelerating at relativistic speeds, time passes Imagine a spaceship traveling at 95% of the away. A stationary observer on Earth would measure spaceship's crew, experiencing time dilation, In other words, between leaving the crewmembers age a little over three years, Earth. If the speed reaches 99% of the speed more slowly. At 99.99% of the speed of light, at 99.9999999% of the speed of light, aboard slowly than on Earth until at 100% of the speed These somewhat optimistic numbers about the reveal something astonishing. Essentially, their spaceship at about 100% of the speed whether it's 100 or 100,000 light-years away, isn't it? If this were truly possible, we could Trek, where spaceships travel effortlessly So, does time dilation solve the problem? to accelerate a mass more and more until it an energy practically infinite in the end. No this gift. Even if the energy problem were somehow there's also the fact that a spacecraft would be in a particularly perilous position. atoms, sometimes forming more complex structures galaxies, stars, and planets. At other towards nothing, probably not colliding with the probability of a collision between two is one thing; the certainty of the enormous during its journey is another matter. transform into a deadly rain of projectiles power when accelerated. This radiation can it dangerously radioactive for the occupants. to that of light would impart such high energy board. Not to mention that at that speed, merely the complete destruction of the spacecraft. of interstellar matter alone would be enough higher than a tenth of the speed of by no means sufficient to support a network of Furthermore, even if all these difficulties were time dilation would sever all ties between Astronauts would depart with the awareness and friends again, unless they brought them they would find a society radically Not only that, but a journey of this kind would interstellar institutions, which rely on different races, assuming a homogeneous This homogeneity is incompatible with the times What would motivate a commercial enterprise to knowing that it can never see or communicate its cargo? And what would prompt the interstellar mission about which nothing will the financiers have been gone for millennia? Einsteinian Relativity would essentially become a a past. Such an endeavor would raise profound In short, it's futile to think about it. In the or cosmological shortcut capable of making Alcubierre propulsion, wormholes... Believe something of ours reaches the stars, it but a robot or at most a transhuman. Our only one star to another in the Galaxy. For