In America, blood means big It's this whole multibillion are centers all over the The North American blood billion in 2021, and over 2% of U.S. exports. And since there is blood, demand can be hard You're at a one day supply One day supply of blood. There are still sporadic That could have life or This is a public health It gives life. It's an amazing thing. But there are still hurdles Gay rights! A historic FDA study that men who want to donate The FDA's blood ban, it's Grifols, CSL Plasma, Octapharma are huge players space, particularly plasma, and that plasma can be used big pharmaceutical The collection of blood banned in most of the The U.S. supplies 70% of the this unique American blood That reward for donating has couldn't make it otherwise. I couldn't buy gas. I couldn't pay my car Here's how the weird economy U.S. is such a major You either make what's donation, which takes about roughly a pint of blood. Plasma donation is quite donation. Or you give what's called an little more extensive, you machine. And this machine extracts yellowish plasma component cells. And that's a greater time And then you get a cookie. One blood donation can be components. That way, more treated. Look at this vial You'll see the red blood portion, a white layer in blood cells and platelets, section? That's plasma, And it transports nutrients, parts of the body that need So due to its nutrient rich used in medicines to treat conditions. The U.S. blood supply ran pandemic. With the cancellation of suddenly had a surplus of Then COVID caused of blood drives across the Plus, the baby boomers are And we're not seeing younger slack, and we need them to As a millennial, it didn't story without going and In order to qualify to be a healthy. And then there are defer someone from You have to fill out an questionnaire, also making safe for the donor. So this is me. That you haven't had exposures, some diseases. There has been a new blood in future nobody contracts transfusion. So in 1983, when due to the U.S. blood supply, there was very little known The FDA implemented a question to its blood donor sex with another man since And if the answer to that banned from donating blood. That's when the lifetime ban implemented. In 2015, it was rolled back Then in 2020, when the rolled back further to urgent need for blood A 2014 report found that equal access to donating blood supply by 2% to 4% Here we are 40 years later, government policy that and other men who have sex this false notion that diseased about being gay. There are 13 tests performed blood, no matter who At the end of this month, my be celebrating our, oh, I I'm gonna get in trouble, anniversary. Even though my have an open relationship, And that's just ridiculous. Outside of a medical product. Pharma companies treatments. Interestingly, nearly all of is sent to Europe, where the So these fractionators will component parts and then and other parts of the In the U.S., it's legal to For someone who's 60 years My name is Teresa, and I Florida. I started donating 80-year-old mother who had She passed away back in And I know she wasn't it helped the cause. I can make $650 to $700 a And that helps a lot when There's also four major basically 80% of plasma United States. And they all stem from based. These are CSL Plasma, Grifols, which is a Spanish that's owned by Takeda, pharmaceutical company, and which is a Swiss company. The profit margin is high. However, that information come by because it is a Most companies didn't get interview, but CSL Plasma contribution to the well-being of our Plasma donation are first month giving plasma. Then it goes down. Usually each time they go. Centers tend to have They have referral programs person you refer a bonus They're really being that they use to recruit donors. And once people really try and incentivize Clinics are increasingly set communities. So what myself and mapping out the location of there's a correlation center and the poverty And what we have found is overrepresented in high So both plasma donations and been on the rise. That's more money in for those who depend on the El Paso, Texas is the city plasma is collected. In the U.S. People crossed sell their plasma and they And if you did this actually make more money you would make working full CSL Plasma said it selects population density, property, and local zoning PPTA, a plasma industry significant amount of Companies consider feedback access to a skilled data on the local key consideration to ensure Americans can legally equaling 104 times a year. The impact of losing that hasn't really been one small study of 64 70% of donors experience They do something that physiologically. I've heard they need to wait a little some liquids if they feel and they might feel woozy The only thing that I find tired and then I'll take a I drink lots of water, too. I've heard of people that So far I haven't, and I'm I'm trying to help and make time. CSL Plasma told CNBC, plasma socioeconomic groups. We work to ensure plasma comfortable, and safe to the highest standards of The safety net is not States and people need to People do what they have to There's the viewpoint that exploitative. That these low-income neighborhoods of vulnerable populations. And then on the flip side, opportunity here that's It's one of the few legal literally spend an hour and bucks. That might make a their lives. The FDA has all the tools it lift the ban and follow the Italy and Spain and Great It's really a matter of They are moving in the The FDA is now conducting a Variability and New also known as the ADVANCE whether donor deferral can assessment instead of the deferrals. And if the ADVANCE study enough men and can show then the FDA has the data, will allow them to roll I don't know what they'll that they will roll it back assessment. What we're advocating for blood donor questionnaire their identity to a blood screens people based on the could place them at risk that window period of time modern testing might miss blood. That should apply to will create the safest Ochoa says that starting to donations have on the would be a great place to In the United States, the people can give plasma, but particular research that times per week and it's It really is more of an If you go to Germany, for the other countries where plasma, but it's about half could collect from a single And so I do think it's researchers to investigate impacts are. The FDA told CNBC that a safe procedure. The FDA first established of plasma donation after available data on the product quality and committee in 1973. If it's low-income people of plasma more often and these are more prone to outcomes, then are they debilitating their body by they're trying to make ends there's no way to answer The PPTA told CNBC, We that would allow the private plasma donation donation. This would the EU, thereby reducing plasma from the U.S. and improving global access across the world to Another thing that's worth diversity. That is a very, all of our red cells are a genetic thing. For American donors are usually with sickle cell disease. We really want to work hard there and have a diverse diversity in America. We need that very badly, blood donation a regular Let it be on their birthday some way to turn it into a