After years of traveling Japan we've compiled trip. GO Taxi. This app is our go-to solution for it's cheaper and it dominates in Japan. Also no in Japan because the government makes it really problem there are a few taxi apps in Japan and the a taxi. It works just like other ride sharing card. But note the app may not let you complete Japan. So keep that in mind. One of the benefits you won't need to explain to the driver where need to know any Japanese and in Japan addresses won't know the location of where you want to go trust it. So again with the app it makes it really going to ask you for a confirmation number so if probably asking for that, so just show them that every driver we've had has been excellent and little bit of English. But why use a taxi when me give you a couple of examples. Recently we when we got off at Niseko station with a few type of Transportation around. So luckily we had job and we were off to our hotel. Another example familiar with Tokyo Station it is a huge crazy shinkansen to places like Kyoto or Osaka chances our case we didn't want to use the local trains luggage. So to make our lives easier we just use hotel and it was a smooth stress-free Free ride. Japan is an easy way to pay for transportation on on the reader. With an IC card you don't need to or having to worry about paying by cash and just low. If you have an iPhone 8 or higher then you sorry but currently only Android phones digital IC card hopefully that'll change soon then Transit and under Japan you'll see SUICA, all of these cards work equally well across Japan or the physical IC card. The digital IC card is a short supply. In early March of 2024 I went to told me that the regular cards were out of supply So again this is a good reason to get a digital IC digital IC card is that they are easy to top up recommend using the Apple Card since topping up using an Apple Card then please check with your any additional fees. You can also charge a stations at the train stations and even at some IC card also shows your balance and a list of all money you have left on your card and where have digital IC card. You can still get a welcome SUICA in Tokyo. If you are arriving in Osaka you can that I use most frequently. Again all of these Train Card Balance. If you don't have a digital IC have. This is a simple app that's available for scan your card and it will show you your balance is great so you know your balance and you won't you can also store multiple cards on this device. alerts including J-alerts in English. I highly broadcaster in Japan and having these alerts you have the notifications turned on. Here's how Select notification settings, under earthquake leaving this setting this will notify you of in Japan. To give you a sense of the scale, prefecture on the 1st of January 2024 measured a under earthquake was a 7 intensity. So again five warning on. Under Breaking News you will receive you don't want this on you can turn it off. Google is the best navigation system for using in Japan intuitive, and usually correct. Google translate. have translations available even when you're restaurant menus, know ingredients lists, and A currency converter will help you accurately in Yen compared to your home currency. On iPhone I use the XE Currency Converter app. They're both purchase a pass such as the Whole Japan Rail Pass app by Navitime is a good choice. It will help you so you don't make a mistake. Enter your starting pass. It will show you whether or not a route is to store your luggage from 1 to up to 30 days help you find a storage location near you and with to learn more about storage options in Japan we luggage. Link will be in the description below. tickets and keep them all organized in one shinkansen bullet trains. With these apps you'll enjoy your trip. But none of these apps are going connection. I've tested a bunch of internet our video on the best pocket Wi-Fi or the best