- [Derek] This is a video about how Japanese swords are made, swords that are strong to slice a bullet in half. The access we got for We were able to film everything to smelting the iron, forging the sword, to sharpening and polishing it. They even let us use it. - [Petr] That is so cool! - [Derek] The method has remained virtually with everything done by hand. They are still considered to - The Japanese made a weapon that was the absolute pinnacle and the materials they had at hand. - These swords are held that one from the 16th century has been appraised at $105 million, making it the most (sword thwacks) (river noises) In the Shimane province of Japan there is a smelter that is lit where steel is made in the It's known as the Tatara method, and only steel made in this way ends up in the very best Japanese swords. And we were invited to come film it. (drums and flute music) Just after 9:00 AM, the and the fire is lit by a Shinto priest. Everyone that will be working for at least the next 24 hours. That includes Veritasium producer Petr. - I'm committed. We're gonna do this. It's gonna be fun. - [Derek] Sword making in Japan but in those days, swords We're not sure how people but it was likely related to pottery. - In that you were using these rocky oars to make glazes and such for pottery under very controlled atmospheres. And then find maybe the in the bottom of the furnaces This possibly gave them the idea. - [Derek] Bronze was because it's an alloy of both metals with low enough melting points that they can be smelted The problem with bronze is that although it can be sharpened, it's too soft to hold an edge for long. So Japanese sword makers in the Heian period. This is what most people would recognize as a Japanese sword. It's made of steel with a curved blade. Steel is an alloy of iron, the fourth-most-common The oceans of the world used But two and a half billion years ago, cyanobacteria started The iron reacted with that oxygen precipitating out of solution to be deposited at the Incidentally, the cyanobacteria that they themselves produced so it's thought that when they died off, and as a and iron no longer Then the cyanobacteria and the cycle repeated. That's why most of the world's of sedimentary rock called Each layer of iron was formed during a global flourishing that infused the ocean with oxygen. The majority of the global iron supply comes from these banded iron formations because of their high up to around 60% iron oxide by weight. (gentle music) But Japan, with its has barely any of these And this is likely why to the steel production game. Archeologists have found which is modern day Turkey, But in Japan, metals including steel, were imported from China and Korea up until the eighth century when Japan started making its own steel. So where did they get the raw ingredients? Well, igneous rocks still contain iron oxides, just in much lower concentrations. But as the mountains are weathered, these iron oxides are broken Eventually they become part of the sand. The Japanese noticed are denser than other they accumulate in places where the river changes The heavier iron sinks to the bottom and the lighter material is washed away. To amplify this effect, they deliberately created to increase the concentration of iron. - What do you do is you and then you drag sand into it. Because iron is heavier than it is the thing that gets left behind and everything else - [Derek] With this method, with 80% iron oxides by weight. That's more concentrated And since it has fewer impurities, it's an excellent source If you heat up those iron oxides to over 1,250 degrees Celsius, you can break the bonds with But pure iron is actually So in its elemental state, But nature gave humans a lucky break. One of the few ways you to 1,250 degrees is with charcoal, and charcoal is basically pure carbon, and if you add just a little it creates an incredibly - Yeah, a lot of people I see it as a chemical process. - [Derek] Alloys are usually because they contain and this reduces the ability of atoms to slide past each other when - So I've just been given gloves, So things are very much getting real. I'm genuinely quite worried. (serious music) Here is the room with all of the charcoal that we're going to be using overnight. There's just bags and bags of this stuff. (charcoal rattles) (flame crackles) There's a Buddhist saying: &quot;Before enlightenment, After enlightenment, So we're lining up on the (charcoal rattles) Oh. Oh boy. Didn't do a great job of that. (chuckles) (thunder rumbles) So the rain is coming, so we're quickly getting and then measuring it. So each bag of these is 10 kilos. Okay. (serious music) So with the iron sand, it because if you don't mix it with water and you put it on the flame, But if you mix it with too much water, then there is water that's gonna heat up. It's gonna become water vapor, and the whole kiln could explode. Terrifyingly enough, they do this by feel. They mix in enough water But again, if it's too much, Okay, put some iron in. It is just past four in the afternoon, and over the last couple of hours we have added 250 kilograms of charcoal and nearly 60 kilograms of iron sand. So yeah, it's a slow process, but I think we're I have no idea because but it should be growing. - [Derek] To achieve the high temperatures required to make steel, you need a strong, For hundreds of years, this was provided by huge It would've taken an by many men to maintain - When I came here, I was a little bit sad that I really wanted to, you know, have this proper workout of stepping on these bellows for 24 hours. (serious music) - [Derek] The temperature gets up to 1500 degrees Celsius, just below the melting point So the iron being smelted isn't liquid, but it's soft and malleable enough to clump together into No matter how high there will always be some impurities, like sulfur, phosphorus, They combine with carbon from the charcoal and melt at a lower temperature than iron, so they become liquid This is known as slag. After many more hours of it is time for the first Before the first removal of (steelworkers clap) - Oh, that's insane. (slag sizzles) (serious music) (hammer pinging) Whoa. So for the last three hours, there's been three processes One is adding the charcoal, and three is opening up to break apart the impurities (shovels scrape) Just want you guys to know and I'm still here and I'm really sleepy. (subdued music) So it's currently six o'clock We've been smelting for 21 hours. I'm exhausted, but the and it's been pretty We gotta close these doors really quick before they get mad at me. - [Derek] At 9:00 AM the next morning, the smelting is complete. A total of 614 kilograms of iron sand and 670 kilograms of charcoal At this point, in a traditional smelter, the only way to get the steel out would be to break it apart. These days, a crane is used to take the smelter apart. - [Petr] Oh wow, okay. Oh! - [Derek] And what is left to is a 100 kilogram block Only around a third of this to be used in sword making. (crane whirs and clunks) - Oh, that's insane. That's so cool. The result for all the hard work. This is step one of (subdued music) - [Derek] The steel is sorted which is also done by eye, in fact, this is one of to be certified as a swordsmith. Then, the different grades to one of 300 swordsmiths Only 30 do it as their full-time job, and one of them is Akihara Kokaji, who we went to visit next. This is when the forging In a coal oven with hand-pumped bellows, the steel is heated until Then using hammers, the master swordsmith In the old days, this would've and three apprentices. The swordsmith using a smaller and the apprentices would use big mallets to flatten the steel. (hammers clank) - Woo. That was terrifying. - [Derek] These days, When the steel is flat enough, it is then bent back on itself, (fire crackles) and it is then hammered again to press the steel back (gentle music) So why go to all this only to fold it back on itself and end up with a chunk of Well, because folding does First, it spreads out the impurities like silicon, sulfur, and phosphorus. It spreads them out throughout the steel. This ensures a uniform consistency Second, it gives the steel a grain. After folding the sword, in the direction that it and as a bonus, the steel So there is a small amount of oxidation creating which when folded makes There are some swords which Now this doesn't mean the sword has been folded a billion times since every fold doubles so you only need about 30 But usually a sword is resulting in a few Now a blade isn't made from The carbon content affects So different carbon percentages are used in different parts of the blade. Because carbon atoms are they can fit inside the These trapped carbon atoms then apply an outward force to the lattice putting the steel under stress. The higher the carbon percentage, the harder and more rigid the steel. But this hardness comes at a cost. The steel becomes brittle, making it more likely to chip So what swordsmiths do is they use steel with for different parts of the blade. The edge is always high carbon steel to make it hard and rigid so it can maintain a sharp But the spine is usually which allows the sword This is done by welding with different carbon contents. - So we have about a 15-minute break because you know it takes to heat up and then meld together, and then we're back in there. It's very hot. It's It's kind of unbelievable that he can do this for - [Derek] After the sword which is a straight blade, it a thick layer for the spine, and a thin layer for the blade itself. It's then heated in the furnace and then rapidly cooled in water, a process known as quenching. Now, because the layers of clay the rate of cooling is faster When the steel is heated, and since the spine of the it will cool slowly, giving time for the carbon This will lead to a very but the carbon atoms will be caught by other iron atoms and created a type of The combination of ferrite and cementite is known as perlite, and it's a mostly soft though parts of it are So per light forms the spine of the sword. In contrast, the very thin means that it cools very rapidly, so more of the carbon is This forces the lattice structure to change from cubic to tetragonal making a form of steel Since the trapped carbon martensite is incredibly hard, exactly what you'd want The tetragonal lattice also takes up more space so the edge of the blade curving the sword backwards. The iconic curve of a samurai sword comes from the formation of martensite. You can actually see the boundary between different types of by the difference in color. This is known as hamon, which - At the Victoria Albert Museum in London, there is a Japanese sword that has a very detailed and I've looked at it many times. I don't, okay, I don't know - [Derek] About one third of all blades shatter during the quenching process. - You quench it once and you thank the stars that you made it. - [Derek] The sword is then to evaporate any remaining water. This also provides a little bit of energy to loosen some of the crystal structures making the sword less brittle. - And that's about the extent of the tempering process which that that might be but they kept the edge much harder than you would've in the West. - [Derek] After the sword is forged, it is sent to a polisher. The polishing and sharpening of a sword is also done by hand with whetstones of different coarsenesses. It can take a month to sharpen - One of the things that this table is sloping down and the entire floor over So when you like add the water, all of the residue and all the water, you know, flows downhill (hammer taps softly) - [Derek] Sometimes the swords are also engraved with beautiful patterns, though this is quite rare. And after all that, the sword is done. To learn how to use a Japanese sword, Petr got a lesson from a He is the 10th-generation student of Miyamoto Musashi, a legendary samurai. Musashi killed his first at the age of 13. He spent the rest of his life inventing a new technique with two swords. Musashi fought in more and he won every last one of them. (serious music) (subdued music) There is a story about a duel that took place during a snowstorm. As he faced his opponent, Musashi was so calm and that snowflakes began to accumulate on the thin edge of the blade. - [Petr] So during the lesson, I thought I would get to use a katana, but instead we spent the entire time learning how to take the and then put it back in. So when I actually got to slice through some things, (katana thuds) (playful music) - [Producer] Well, it I'm so scared. Okay, so this has been an amazing day. We've looked at some beautiful katanas, and now these wonderful of their just unbelievably to chop some things. (Petr exhales forcefully) (katana thuds) Oh. - Woo! Like this is kind of the best day ever. (subdued music) - [Derek] There really about Japanese swords. The amount of care, that each step requires, from the gathering and to the smelting, to the forging and sharpening a sword, each step takes so much time and skill. It's incredible that all by trial and error to produce that they are still (steelworkers speaking Japanese) (steelworkers clap) - [Derek] Before I made this video, I didn't really appreciate that swords can be art. To me, it's a good reminder you should do it with deep and love for the craft. (both speaking Japanese) - Do that enough times and you might just make (audio chimes and warbles) Hey, this part of the video was brought to you by Henson Shaving. You know, making high and as far as I'm concerned, Henson make the highest-quality the katanas of the shaving I've been using their AL-13 and it's the best razor One of the reasons for that is Henson really understands because as aerospace they understand how to They get precision. Human hair is much harder than and as a result, typical razors drag and pull on the hair while cutting. What a multi-blade that the first cut will be ineffective, and so they build in extra before it can snap back into position. And that does result in a good cut, but it also increases friction leading to razor burn and skin irritation. Henson carefully studied that problem and realized that you didn't you just needed to properly Virtually every razor on allows for too much play in the The result is an effective cut without the additional Seriously, a Henson is It'll last you a lifetime. You will get a better and you'll also save So head over to or scan the QR code here and enter code &quot;veritasium&quot; with a purchase of any razor. I wanna thank Henson Shaving and I wanna thank you for watching.