If there is one thing we have it is that life can In the amount of time it to put on your lipstick, it can happen just that fast. Nobody knows that better What happened to them our heads in utter disbelief. It is a story of imaginable and an undeniable miracle. A twist of fate that will make of your neck stand up. It starts with the worst We knew when we first got wanted kids right away. Well, we were definitely a-- I think best described as And there was plenty of dancing And I think we just liked LORI: Oh, here's your crazy It was the day after My mom was with us that day. And we wanted to go somewhere We decided to go center that had a Ferris wheel. And Kyle wanted to go We went on the merry-go-round, Everything the kids loved to do. It was getting pretty And the kids kind of So we packed the car and started to head home. While we were driving were watching a movie on TV. And Kyle was playing he just got for his birthday. After 10 minutes I was stuck, stopped in traffic. And I turned around And that's when I noticed So I reached back and And that was one of the A big rig truck, loaded slammed into Lori's minivan Lori was knocked unconscious. But her mother, Cindy, remembers everything. CINDY: All of a sudden, was metal bending and And it was the worst sound RICHARD: It was the most I've ever seen. And it just happened so quick. Alls I could think How are we going to get these And I couldn't. I couldn't get them out. The next thing I up on the side of the freeway. OPRAH: Lori had a Her mother, Cindy, They were taken to one hospital. In order to handle Kyle and Katie were And four-year-old Chris was at work when he Doctors wouldn't until he got to the hospital. I literally ran to the They took me back And the doctor told me, I'm A few more minutes went by. They told me there was from Saddleback Hospital. And I got on the phone. And the first thing I said was, And he said, I'm sorry, So I just dropped the phone. I just couldn't believe It's almost like my world went Emma was at a third hospital from where we were. It was one of my own children. I couldn't even make with everything going on. OPRAH: Chris had to tell Lori LORI: I just remember screaming. And I didn't know how I could be And I asked about Kyle. They didn't know if he I didn't want Kyle to be alone. I didn't want him to be OPRAH: Chris rushed to be with And I could see Kyle on a around him. And he was laying there I had some hope for a moment So the doctor talked to me and-- and pulled me aside. His brain hadn't been and he wasn't coming back. They suggested to So we decided to get so we could say goodbye I got to hold his hand and talk tell him I'm sorry Wish I could go in his place. Wish I could change things. Brushing his hair back His eyes were open. And I thought he was alive. I thought they were all wrong. She was climbing as best she can to hug Kyle. And saying, he's got to go His sisters are waiting for him. And so we stopped life support. The machines went dark. The room went dark. And I, uh, held my And-- until his heart He was gone. Well, it's obviously very to share their story. But I have to believe that they today and help us all no matter what you somehow you can one foot in front of the other. Thank you both for How were you even able I mean, how-- I'm sure that there was a where you were just Yes. I think I was numb for-- for months I'm still numb at times. OPRAH: This was three-- LORI: 3 and 1/2 years ago. 3 and 1/2 years ago. It was hard to get up to even take a shower. You somehow just do it. We did it for them. But we, you know-- you're obviously in shock And denial would be the most OPRAH: Yeah. Because when you can't believe that it happened. You're hoping that CHRIS: Yeah. The worst nightmare Every morning, And you were happy to be asleep, so you could get away from We wanted to tell the Cobles' not just so that we could but because of their to keep standing, up and put one foot in front As we go to break, Chris and of Kyle, of Emma, and of Katie. LORI: Kyle was an amazing kid. Loved life, he was outgoing. He had lots of friends. He was just very unique. He was an angel. CHRIS: My fondest were the adventurous She was independent and LORI: She had a She loved to dance. Emma was always bouncing around. CHRIS: Katie was She was the youngest, of course. She was very outgoing and loud. And she would dress And she'd put on her and dance on this little mat. Hi, Daddy! When, you know, you'd and three children are I'd have to open my arms big and and give everyone kisses. So that was the best OPRAH: You spent a thinking about the I think the reason I survived I believe that he couldn't And I think that I survived so OPRAH: So three months Lori and Chris decided to So first, tell us about I think that was the I think we had so much the kids would want They'd want us to That seemed, like, very simple. Yeah. We always described ourself as-- at that point-- parents I mean, when you have your whole lives are And you love it. So what happened next Almost one year to the of their children-- Kyle, Katie, and Emma-- Lori gave birth But not just triplets. Two girls and a boy. Doesn't that give We are thrilled to introduce old Ashley, Ellie, and Jake. [APPLAUSE] Ashley, Ellie, and Jake. Ashley, Ellie, and Jake. Hi, guys. Hi. Can you say hi, Jake? Hi. 2 and 1/2, you get You get whatever you can. So do you consider Yes, definitely. Definitely a miracle. OPRAH: I mean, really. Triplets. A boy and two girls. You probably want the A little story. What-- what happened here? Well, we had decided children prior to the accident. So we had to do-- Daddy? We had to do in-- Daddy? We had do in vitro OPRAH: Yes. And we found out that it We took that as a And we put them-- we put all back in. And almost, you know, nine OPRAH: Unbelievable. Do you think-- say that when somebody it feels like the spirit of I heard you describing, you Do you feel the spirit of Definitely. We see their little And definitely by their looks. Hi. Say hi to Oprah. OPRAH: Hi, Ellie. Hi. Definitely by their looks, yes. Their looks, their mannerisms. They have fun together. Yeah, it's great. It brings a smile to our face Emma, and Katie come back. OPRAH: A little part of them. Now, have you-- have you about Kyle and Katie and Emma? Yes. They know that they and a brother in heaven. And we go to the cemetery OPRAH: Really? As much of a picnic that a OPRAH: Yes, as much Yes. But yeah, I guess you will integrate the who are no longer here-- Of course. --with this? Because they still are Of course. OPRAH: And the reason for They will grow up I mean, we have all the pictures still, of Kyle, Emma, and Katie. And we look at them And so they definitely will knowledge of them. OPRAH: Be part of their lives. That's amazing. So tell us about LORI: The triplets have as Kyle, Emma, and Katie. OPRAH: So you-- they carry LORI: They do. LORI: They do. They'll never be but they will know A miracle, don't you think? A miracle.