Translator: Emanuele Rossi Let me tell you about my mom. My mom was 42 years old when I was born, and she started exercising She started by running around the block, and then she started doing 5K races, And after that, she ran a marathon, and after that, my mom did a triathlon. By the time she was 57 years old, my mom was trekking uphill (Laughter) And let me tell you about my dad. (Laughter) When I was a kid, He was also my calculus teacher (Laughter) I wanted to crawl under the desk. (Laughter) I learned something important from my mom: The value of health. And I learned something the value of science. And these two values have guided me and they've helped me appreciate And it's not Ebola. Instead, it is the epidemic A half billion people worldwide are obese. And you would think that 50 years after on the dangers of tobacco was published Today, a billion people Tobacco and obesity of premature death. Solving these problems is like We engage in unhealthy behaviors because of brain neurotransmitters, because of environmental influences Each of those pieces of the puzzle are not things that you and I But there is one piece of this puzzle Our choices about what we do in addictive behaviors Our choices. There is a new science of self-control that may hold the key to reversing It's called willingness. Willingness means allowing while not acting on them by smoking But actually, I'm not talking about &quot;power through your cravings.&quot; Instead, I'm talking about that looks like this: dropping the struggle with your cravings. Opening up to them, and making peace with them. Now at this point (Laughter) I was when I first heard about it A friend of mine came to me He said, &quot;Jonathan, this book will change your life forever!&quot; And I said &quot;Oh, OK... So I went through it and thought, and tossed it aside. Until some years later when my wife brought me to a workshop on willingness and I was blown away. So then I read the book, and then I read a lot of books and I got trained in it, and what I learned was in the Acceptance and Commitment Therapy It's a broad approach to behavior change that's being used to help people even some innovative companies are now using it to help improve and reduce their stress. Now, to understand why I was blown away, you have to understand In my research world, a common way you help people is you teach them to avoid their cravings. Avoid thinking about smoking, There's a song from a Broadway show It goes like this: (Singing) When you start to get confused don't feel those feelings, hold them in instead. Turn it off like a light switch We do it all the time when you're feeling certain feelings Treat those pesky feelings (Laughter) (Applause) We all live in this world, where the song we keep hearing is Now, let's take a look at these cookies. (Laughter) They just came out of the oven Ah, they're so delicious. Mm-mm, just feel that craving Ooh, they're lovely, they're so good. Now, turn it off! (Laughter) Turn it off! You want those cookies You see the futility You can't turn it off! And maybe you don't have to. Maybe, you can leave the light on. Here is how: My research lab at the Fred Hutchinson is conducting randomized clinical trials to see if showing people is effective for quitting smoking. We are conducting trials and a telephone quit smoking hotline and in an app called SmartQuit. These technologies have the potential with interventions That's pretty amazing. And let me tell you about the data. When you pool together the results all six that have been published to date, including trials what we see is that for the people to the avoidance approach - some of them quit smoking, and it varied depending on the study. However, for the people who were randomly twice as many quit smoking. Very, very encouraging. Now, of course, the data only tell us So, to help you see willingness in action, I'm going to weave together in counseling people for quitting smoking. And I'll together refer to them that we'll just call Jane. So, as is typical of people who come in Jane was a 45-year-old person who started smoking She tried to quit smoking several times So, she was very skeptical was going to be helpful and yet she was really hopeful So, the first thing that I showed Jane that is to be aware, So to notice where she felt cravings And what I did was I asked her to journal that, and just to track and to see if she'd smoke afterwards. So in the middle of explaining this, &quot;What are you talking about? So I said, &quot;Well, why don't you try it, and if it doesn't work, So she came back a week later &quot;You know, I've been tracking my cravings, I've been tracking them all the time. And now I can't stop (Laughter) What am I supposed to do?&quot; Well, before I tell you my answer, Now, what was probably going on here was that Jane and like a lot of us, (Laughter) You wake up in the morning, you have a cup of coffee, you get in the car, you smoke a cigarette. We're often just not aware of So, my answer to Jane was to be willing, and one of the ways was with an exercise called So, one of Jane's thoughts &quot;I'm feeling a lot of stress right now, So I asked her to add the phrase &quot;I'm having the thought&quot; like this. &quot;I'm having the thought that I'm feeling a lot of stress right now Then I asked her to add the phrase so &quot;I'm noticing that I'm feeling I really need a cigarette.&quot; Now, we can all do an exercise like this Like for my thought (Laughter) and I'm having the thought So, what this exercise did between me and my thoughts. And it's in that space that I can choose not to run off (Laughter) And the fact is we don't act because if we did, we'd all be (Laughter) So, this was helpful to Jane, that was really difficult for Jane. I felt a lot of compassion That was the judgment that she felt from people when she would be The criticism from her husband and the self-loathing And she dealt with this shame which gave her relief temporarily So, I said to Jane, &quot;What would it be like as part of the human experience? If you had a close friend I said to Jane, "what would you offer this friend and could you then offer those words And she looked up, and she had this look of this temporary which made it just not to act on the craving. So, here is the secret to self-control: the secret to self-control Because otherwise, we get into a tug-of-war with a monster, And the craving monster says, &quot;Come on, smoke a cigarette. And you're on the other side saying, &quot;No craving monster, I'm going to ignore you, And the craving monster says, And you're just back here and you're going back and forth and pretty soon the craving monster -- you have that cookie, until the craving monster comes back. And then you're in the tug-of-war again Unless - unless you drop the rope. And what you discover is that if you just allow to occupy a space in your body, you discover in a few minutes that the craving monster is not And sometimes, he even goes away. As we break for lunch, we're going to have (Laughter) When you see them, try to be aware try to be willing to have those cravings. See if they pass on their own. Whatever choice you make, and kindness to yourself, for that is the mountain Thank you very much. (Applause)