This is Princess Rosalina. She was created in her voice, you might've noticed something Here's a clip from 2011. And then here's how she sounds now! Her voice sounds pretty different in each of those changing Rosalina's voice actress. Considering why has her voice been so inconsistent? Why in this video we'll answer that mystery. Here's Our story begins in 2005, when Nintendo started Galaxy. This game was set in space, and a space princess to guide players on their a powerful being who watches over the cosmos. Now, Mario princesses - reserved, calm, even a little had a much warmer side to her that players would as the mother of the Luma characters, and also a deeply sorrowful past. In other words, And so, to find a voice actress suitable for this It was at this time that a voice actress named Now, Mercades Rose wasn't exactly a gamer - in life! All she knew was Pac-Man and Space Invaders. princess that her agent had sent to her, she found was Rosalina!", explained Mercedes Rose. "I also Mario in many many years. Plus, I think of myself But, what should Rosalina sound like? What the little fact sheet she was sent by Nintendo Lumas. And this struck a chord for Rose. into [Rosalina's voice]." she stated. "I am a natural fit." And so, Mercades Rose put on and to her delight, she got the role! Here's Now, after Mario Galaxy's release in 2007, and Mercedes Rose continued voicing the and Mario Kart Wii. But then, after that, Mercades and her character Rosalina was recast. In 2016, Mercades Rose was asked whether it was "It was not. And thank you for emails from frustrated fans on a come back. It was never my decision. So, why did Nintendo recast Rosalina? my theory. In the years after Mario change. She became more upbeat, she would and her tragic past wasn't really this change in character, Nintendo wanted So, around 2011, Nintendo of America held And one auditionee was voice actress Kerri Kane was kind of the opposite of Mario - she first got into the series with but she'd also played Mario 64, almost every It almost doesn't need to be said that it was And so, just a few months after finding herself a was recasting the role of Rosalina, and so she to! But almost immediately afterwards, she started audition, I of course, second guessed myself! "Why etc. Finally I gave myself a break and thought, So, Kerri Kane didn't think she got surprise! "I was shocked when I heard I didn't believe it... I didn't believe it on it when I was in there recording, nor on At the studio, she was asked to make "yeah" and "hoo". The longest sentence So what was the final result? Mario Kart 7 was released featuring So Mario Kart 7 was the first game featuring Kerri would be the first of many. However, just as Kerri Kane was forced to leave the role behind! 3000 miles across America, from Seattle She knew that moving so far away meant she'd and in this case she was right. "I was of course So, after just one game featuring Nintendo had to scramble to find someone to they began holding auditions. And one person who by the name of Laura Faye Smith. Like Kerri Kane games. As a kid, she was practically addicted anecdote was from when Laura Faye Smith was actors would regularly play Mario Kart on their on! When it was her turn to appear on stage, she'd So, when Laura Faye Smith heard about she was pretty excited. She recorded an and then she was invited to an actual recording giving her tips as she performed. She said thinking that even if I didn't book the and how nice the Nintendo team was - they made Well, it turned out that Nintendo had a was soon informed that she got the role! first appearance was in Super Mario So you might expect the story to Rosalina's next game was Mario Golf for the 3DS. If you were listening closely, you might've those voice clips sounded more like Kerri "Those are all my voice clips in the new Mario the additional recordings! There are other ones You see, back when Kerri Kane recorded there were a handful of clips that never was these unused voice voice lines that Then, the next game featuring Rosalina was the game featured old recordings of Rosalina's new voice actress, was stating "Unfortunately, because I'm an independent I have no idea why they use the voices they do Finally though in 2014, Nintendo stopped and switched over to using Laura Faye Smith's Finally, Laura Faye Smith was back as Rosalina! but unfortunately the confusion doesn't end Nintendo released Mario Party 10. And if find a certain voice actress's name popping again credited as the voice of Roslaina, though not how Kerri Kane's name is spelt, and that's features Laura Faye Smith as Rosalina, which "My script didn't have a &quot;Here I go&quot; or the So this time round, Nintendo just as long as it's just a one-off ...Which is why it's pretty embarrassing that Laura Faye Smith's voice as having been recorded THREE THOUSAND miles away at the time. This is However, all bizarre credits confusion reprise her role as Princess Rosalina for instance, Super Mario Party, and But if you've got a Nintendo Switch then you Mercedes Rose appears in Super Mario 3D All-Stars, Smash series which includes Smash Ultimate, that Nintendo releases. It's interesting to quick succession, to the point that you can Which leaves just one question. Which I like all of them. In Galaxy, Rosalina in Mario Kart 7, she's a little in the newer games, she's bouncy and energetic. personal preference! Let me know which But that's all from me, thank you so thanks to all of my Patrons - an extra