&quot;Why,&quot; you may ask, &quot;do they love this greasy in those patties that made them so delicious. And me. I also cared. But unlike Plankton, I with all of you. The Krabby Patty secret formula Hello, Internet. Welcome to Food Theory, the mistakes of our past. In case you've been living with this particular franchise, SpongeBob all about a yellow sponge flipping burgers for But most importantly of all, it's got the single The Krabby Patty Secret Formula. he's flipping THE burger. The be all end It's a burger beyond compare, a patty so good The Krabby Patty is what ties us all together! Without it there will be a complete breakdown of social order. Dark times are ahead! Dark times indeed. Seriously? Aren't you overreacting a bit? No restaurant has ever seen lines this long. 'Scuse us, we'd like 3,000 Krabby Patties please. Unless, of course, you're talking that's because every bag has like a chance of The Krabby Patty is able to do it on flavor alone. guy who's about to die from consuming too many of it so much, why don't you marry it, right? Oh, But what makes this patty it's kept as a secret. A secret that not How can we make more Krabby Patties without the secret formula? You've got to have that formuler memorized by now! The employee handbook clearly states, and I quote: &quot;No employee may in part or in whole Commit the Krabby Patty secret formula to any recorded, written, or visual form including memories, dreams, and/or needlepoint. &quot;Curse you fine print!&quot; Now at face value this shouldn't be too hard to get yourself some ground meat, slap some the show even tells us exactly I can't put a patty on a bun with lettuce, cheese, onions, tomatoes, ketchup, mustard, pickles, and top bun all together in that order! But remember, we're not talking about itself. That is the lingering mystery but two decades, the truth behind the Krabby Rival business owners are risking life, attempts to find out what makes this I'll take on secret formula. . . to go. And today I've got it. Call me Plankton, all the footage as well as reading tons of The definitive recipe for the patty. about what's inside of it for a long time. you've probably noticed this isn't my first time And if you're not subscribed to those, here's your friendly reminder to do that now. Theory a few years ago, but to be honest, I wasn't At the time, I concluded that the whole a god tier level of marketing genius coming from never sat right with me. I mean, no amount of At least I hope not. But we're older we have ourselves a legitimate food figure out how recipes work. Which means I'm this topic with fresh eyes. Step aside, Let's start by looking at the moments in the show the episode Spy Buddies we actually get this look It's got molecules. It's a formula all right, but plus 1 equals Krabby Patty". The variable here, for x, we actually get this "x equals Krabby This isn't a formula for Krabby Patties, Krabby Patties. I'm assuming it's the that we can clearly see is offered by Patty secret formula, we need to turn In this episode, we get a direct look at a absolute gibberish. I'm not kidding. One teaspoon dhfhgh You might think that all these random I've tried. The Internet's tried. It really keyboard. Well, hold your seahorses, because when ingredients to not reveal their true identity, "Yes" with "the formula shall always remain secret". gibberish words aren't the real ingredients, Looks like someone may have overplayed their hand down, shall we? At first glance, these mysterious but look again. Four cups of ghsgehsg? That Clearly, four cups of something is going to be Well, I'm no expert in dhfhgh, but I have read actually really common to see a whole onion And what do you know, but onions are normally seen leaves us with the ingredient that only needs one looking at the formula.Right? Right. Yeah. Honestly, there's no way to tell we're not just limited to this one scene. In the episode Friend or Foe, we flashback this miracle food began as something known as Krabs and his once business partner turned we learned that the pair worked tirelessly to "The Plab Patty was proven to be However, in a stroke of pure luck, a which would turn this bad paddy into a fab paddy, those secret ingredients? Well, it's at this Bottom Mysteries, an official SpongeBob investigates some of the most mysterious source of information, right? It is an official So I decided to check it out. In their episode They focused a lot on this moment but their conclusion wasn't what you'd formula never changed from the "That's right, The Plab Patty The narrator then goes on to say that the goop actually mixed with the original formula. They were never even taken out of their bottles. Never able to mix with the rest of the batter. Excuse me? We know for certain that at least Look at the new reaction that people have the same. The narrator then has the gall to tell fell into the Plab Patty mixture, when clearly But newly uncovered footage reveals a shocking truth about those six ingredients. In short, the evidence heavily suggests withholding information and outright formula. He's gaslighting us in the So let's instead take a closer look Plab Patty mixture. First, we can contains chili peppers. Notice the long This tells us that the Krabby Patty is we have ourselves a bottle with lit fire additional hot sauce. Those bottles tend to When it comes to fire, that more frequently which would give these grilled patties a bit this one right here has got to be breadcrumbs. patty making process, but more importantly, Plankton's Chum Burgers and the Krabby and are generally shapeless blobs of ground would help the Patty maintain its structure, ingredients that literally give us no If only there was another episode out there that wait, there is. In the episode The Great episode titled Patty Caper wasn't salt, flour and barnacle shavings were explicitly We start with flour. Next we add barnacle shavings. We do the next one together eh? Now one of those things is clearly not like on there? Well, believe it or not, reality Barnacle shells are just calcium and This is what's known as fortification, having added vitamin D or your water fish need calcium to build their bones. Not a Thought I'd forgotten about that one hadn't you? shaved calcium can go a long way. So that then as well as the seven jars that we Which leaves us with the last and possibly your Krabby Patty: Chum. In the episode Friend recipe. Even in Bikini Bottom Mysteries, they Is that each contain an entire pinch of chum. That's right! The very same repulsive ingredient used at the Chum Bucket. Now if you aren't up to date chum refers to the ground mixture of fish more predatory animals like sharks. Which just selling his customers the ground up remains of Is that why they love the Krabby Patty so of fish will eat fish parts. Cannibalism is and the Krabby Patty clearly But even more importantly, we the Krabby patty is vegan. The patty is vegetarian because it contains cheese. the late Stephen Hillenburg, the It's also been confirmed by a current executive here in the Sponge Out of Water movie, being made in real life. That right there has meaning that the base of the Krabby patty isn't those four cups of ghsgehsg are more likely to to Dr. Gavin Ramsay, fava beans have the fish. But just like we see with be too much Other studies have shown that eating too much familiar? Like maybe someone getting sick enough Patties against doctors orders? This does How could the Krabby Patty be a plant of chum? Those two facts seem directly irrefutable sources. Well, even though the by definition it can also refer Vegetable matter like the true Red Algae. You see, one of the main problems with patties lack the natural juices that come It's also challenging to get those patties to characteristics of the Krabby Patty. They're got to be something more at play here, Thanks to research out of Yemoja, a vegans can now experience all the goodness that make meat lovers go wow. By a type of red algae, Yemoja has created a When cooked, Ounje changes color from red like juices that don't just congeal, they burger develops a pleasant, crisp texture when Also, this is far from being the first time for food. If you're a fan of sushi, the thin black sheets of seaweed This seaweed is actually a type of red they outright confirmed that seaweed sauce You're the one who put too much seaweed sauce in the burger. So why is Mr. Krabs so dead set on keeping it to avoid competition? Or is it because think? Mr. Krabs is far from a fool when people are notoriously skeptical when He wants to make sure that his always been for all these years hence don't know won't stop them from buying So the fact that his patties are plant based is is why he's not afraid to pull out all the stops Patty's juicy secret. But is it really necessary? like red algae and thus would be receptive, if not Yeah, they do. Some fish are known to actually In fact, fish are actually known to enjoy and even Krabby Patty: Beans, chili peppers, onions. Even to eat, making it no surprise that they ended So there you have it, Theorists. That is what's one chopped onion, enough breadcrumbs to one teaspoon of a calcium supplement, flour, salt, algae extract and of course, love. The love and baby burgers. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm going double Krabby Patty with the works. 14 year old me In the meantime, remember, if you have yourself any and all prying eyes, you best be turning Home Security. SimpliSafe is the award home with cutting edge technology and then monitoring professionals that are ready to Your safety is not something to have myself a secret burger recipe hidden personality who makes people upset with As such, having a home security system collective peace of mind. There are just a systems are historically hard to install, and First of all, they're delivering everything house or pineapple under the sea. That headaches and subsequent social awkwardness systems that you can get with SimpliSafe are They've got indoor and outdoor cameras and but also glass break sensors for windows, motion even things that you wouldn't expect out water sensors for any leaking or bursting pipes, you've had houses in the past that have had severe some of us don't want water filling a breeze with clear instructions not a bunch of meaningless gibberish True story. One night before we got SimpliSafe, we heard a door open in our basement. and we were terrified to go down there. So I grabbed the nearest weapon that I son's didgeridoo. Stupid. I know, but it was the panic. Turned out the door just hadn't been fully But holding on to a didgeridoo that for a situation like this. Now, hearing the that. When I arm the system at night, And not only are the products great, the price Monitoring Service is less than a dollar a day. professional agents are ready to send out Peace of mind for your family, your pets, is well worth the cost. And the deal gets even can save up to 40% on your security system Visit simplisafe.com/foodtheorists to customize simplisafe.com/foodtheorists which is too click the top line of the description and Because at the end of the day, just like there are no theories, LIKE