Adolf Hitler neither finished school He occasionally lived He refused to pursue a regular job. To this day, it seems inexplicable Out of nowhere, Hitler became the Fuhrer, One of the most powerful men who brought the world and death to millions of people. The nation worshiped him During his lifetime, No one should know how or who he was. Hitler's contemporaries flesh out the picture. Who was Hitler? On June 30th, 1903, visits Braunau am Inn In a historical coincidence, this border town to Bavaria, is the origin of the oldest film footage In the late '80s of the last century, my parents lived which is Bavarian by blood Adolf Hitler, Mein Kampf. The Customs Inspector Alois Hitler, occupy a small apartment on the top floor At Easter time on April 20th, 1889, Adolf Hitler is born. Parish register, Braunau. Adolfus Hitler, born on April 20th,1889, Baptized on April 22nd To begin with, from the year 1889, One thing worthy of note is the close resemblance August Kubizek, Adolf Hitler is the third He and his younger sister, Paula, are the only ones The mother is 28 years old The father is 51. Klara Hitler is related to Alois Hitler. She's her husband's second cousin. When Hitler is three years old, and decides to move on the German side of the border. Adolf Hitler lives with his family Actually, Hitler didn't speak August Kubizek. In my youth, German was the dialect Adolf Hitler, Mein Kampf. The oldest film recording was shot by foreigners, It shows Vienna, in the year 1896. In old Austria, from the Mediterranean, over the Alps, Oskar Kokoschka, painter and writer. Hitler's ancestry from lower Austria, as well as a total of 21 years do not suffice to make him an Austrian Kurt Schuschnigg, Austrians who spoke meant the national culture which is what Austrian man This cultural nation is Germany. Transporting a locomotive sixteen workhorses pull the locomotive The majority of German-speaking Austrians feel close links to the Germans and the smaller federal states already united He was a grumpy, reticent old man, and like a lot of political free spirits Josef Mayrhofer, A visit to his parent's grave. His school friends say his mother The father cold, silent and strict. Joseph Goebbels, diary, July 22nd, 1938. I never loved my father, but feared him all the more. Adolf Hitler, table talk, recorded by his secretary, My brother Adolf that he was beaten every day. Paula Hitler, later Paula Wolf. In June 1939, Eva Braun films the small farm that Hitler's father leases On May 1st, 1895, Hitler starts school in the neighboring village of Fischlham. In the year 1897, The family lives temporarily In 1898, the Hitler family moves Here, Hitler's father including 1,900 square meters of land. After five years at elementary school, begins secondary school Adolf Hitler has to repeat his first year I remember the scrawny, pale boy, who commuted every day He was definitely talented but was not in control of himself. He was considered rebellious and he didn't work hard. Dr. Eduard Humer, Hitler's French teacher. The quiet life on this little patch of land The head of the family died unexpectedly Max Zilzer, Leonding, Alois Hitler leaves his modest savings Alois and Angela, and Adolf and Paula. This inheritance is to be paid out The quiet cemetery of Leonding His widow moved to the nearby city of Linz for better educational opportunities Max Zilzer. In 1904, Klara Hitler who, due to bad grades, is again in danger to the state secondary school Look at my school grades. I had bad marks in German. That idiot of a professor I would never be able Adolf Hitler, Last grades at secondary school in Steyr. Diligence: inconsistent. German: insufficient. Geography and History: sufficient. Mathematics: insufficient. Physics: satisfactory. Freehand drawing: commendable. Sport: excellent. I don't have a photograph of Adolf Hitler There probably aren't any photos Everything that could be said has already been said from the fourth grade By chance, this drawing, The boy could only draw profiles. Nevertheless, there was something peculiarly fascinating August Kubizek. After nine years, Adolf Hitler For the following three years, not really doing anything. All of his relatives A person who shied away from the start. August Kubizek. Adolf Hitler talks to his mother He wants to apply for an admission at the Academy of Fine Arts. From early in the morning I ran from one sightseeing attraction The buildings were the only things All of Ring Street affected me Adolf Hitler, Mein Kampf. From 1904 to 1908, I was Adolf Hitler's only friend in Linz August Kubizek. Hitler, who later, was not entirely untalented, but is turned down after the second. Adolf Hitler, born in Braunau, German, Catholic, few faces, Classification list When Adolf Hitler, returns to his family Klara Hitler She's suffering from a swelling. Nowadays, it would be diagnosed as cancer. For several months, Adolf Hitler devotedly Dr. Bloch, well-loved by all, August Kubizek. To a great degree, I have no idea what dreams he dreamt. Dr. Eduard Bloch, Klara Hitler dies surrounded by her family. The death of our mother We were very attached to our mother. When she died, Adolf stopped coming home. Paula Hitler, Adolf Hitler's sister. In contrast to what Adolf Hitler remains in Linz several weeks He never tells his family, that he failed the admissions test Apparently, He was easily irritated and gave me short shrift August Kubizek. In the spring of 1908, Adolf Hitler begins living Vienna was the most thorough education Adolf Hitler, Mein Kampf. The small inheritance that was diligently had to cover both the cost of living He may have been able through the sale of drawings August Kubizek. For the next months, there is no trace He has broken off contact with his family, and he fails the second entrance test He begins to copy and then sells them as postcards. I was a young, inexperienced man Forced to get by on my own, the few kronen, often only cents were barely enough Adolf Hitler, Mein Kampf. Hitler's share of his father's inheritance his 24th birthday. Hitler met Rudolf Hausler With him, he wants to move He was just full of praise for this city. At the same time, and radishes, et cetera. Housemate of Hitler's in 1912. I had arrived in this town as a boy Adolf Hitler, Mein Kampf. The main reason for leaving Austria is probably that the later wants to get out On Saturday, May 24th, 1913, Hitler and Hausler but don't state In Munich, Adolf Hitler has found the city He does, however, remain an outsider. His inheritance helps him build on the fringe of society. It was a beautiful Sunday afternoon Someone knocked on the door It was a young man I showed it to him Frau Anna Popp, landlady, Adolf Hitler and Rudolf Hausler at 34 Schleissheimer Strasse The younger generation that we belong to but were intoxicated by foreign wars. We had no real idea what war was. Adolf's father had never been a soldier. Now and again, old men would talk August Kubizek. Diary, Monday, June 29th, 1914. Archduke Franz Ferdinand, has been killed along with his wife. The scum of moral turpitude. Henrietta Schneider, born in 1872, The incident triggers a war in the Balkans For me, those hours were release I'm not ashamed to say today fell to my knees that they had given me Adolf Hitler, Mein Kampf. On August 2nd, 1914, the day after Germany there was a big patriotic rally in front of the Feldherrnhalle. Heinrich Hoffmann Years later, in an enlargement, which is presumably Hitler's. On August 5th, 1914, I enlisted in the Army and entered I was deferred for several days, then transferred and finally assigned number 16 on August 16th. Adolf Hitler, outline of my person. For the first time in his life, In the early morning hours Hitler's regiment sets out in a westerly direction. Shortly after the first combat mission Hitler is promoted to lance corporal. He would reject further promotions This would have involved and Hitler would have lost the camaraderie For the first time, Hitler With that came the order and structure that spared him Fritz Wiedemann, Lieutenant. As of November 9th, and assigned to the regimental staff. In the eyes of many soldiers the staff orderlies are privileged cowards. Whenever death was on the prowl, and appeared to the weak body and was in fact only cowardice trying to seduce the individual. By the winter of 1915, '16, The will itself had finally become Now fate could put me to the test A young war volunteer Adolf Hitler, Mein Kampf. Hitler is respected by his comrades but he remains an outsider. In five of six photos he's either standing Hitler is wounded on October 5th, 1916, and is taken to the Red Cross Hospital By March 1st, 1917, he's back running despatches In the following months, On August 4th, 1918, Hitler is awarded the highest military honor that soldiers of his rank The nomination was submitted Lieutenant Hugo Gutmann. I never got out of Hitler, the reason The experience with Jewish officers couldn't have contributed to this. Fritz Wiedemann, Lieutenant. On the night of October 13th, Hitler's war service ends Mustard gas was used On October 13th, we came under several hours Already around midnight, including some comrades permanently. In the morning, I too experienced pain At 7:00 o'clock, I staggered taking my last message of the war with me. Adolf Hitler, Mein Kampf. After treatment in a mobile Army hospital, to the Prussian Reserve Hospital He's been on the front Hitler remains in Pasewalk for 28 days, In the military hospital in Pasewalk, Adolf Hitler and the other patients the monarchy abdicated, I hadn't cried since the day I stood Now I couldn't stop myself. Adolf Hitler, Mein Kampf. Like everything else in Mein Kampf, and must be doubted. We don't know whether it was Hitler's will that influenced his future course On November 21st, 1918, He tries to evade demobilization There are clashes between supporters and parliamentary democracy The social democratic majority the so-called Freikorps, to break the power Letter to Clara and Fritz Hesse. The volunteer corps Without them, Rudolf Hoess, Adolf Hitler keeps his distance but also from their right-wing opponents. During this period, He is under the influence the head of the Intelligence Battalion. When I met him for the first time, he came across as a tired stray dog Karl Mayr, captain of the Reichswehr. Karl Mayr also finances patriotic parties the German Workers' Party, which is founded in Munich mainly by a group of railwaymen. On September 12th, 1919, Hitler, who has, in the meantime, is sent to spy who also provides financial support. During the discussion, A second speaker then took the floor and in short, powerful words, It was Adolf Hitler. Michael Lotter, One day I had the opportunity and what I had always instinctively felt I could speak in public. Adolf Hitler, Mein Kampf. In the second half of September 1919, and participates regularly Among the various right-wing the NSDAP was by no means the strongest, but it was the most active Its significance is solely the result Ernst Hanfstaengl, son of a publisher, On February 24th, 1920, Hitler speaks for the first time at the Hofbrauhaus. He also announces which is formally valid until the demise of the NSDAP. First, we demand the unification based on the right Second, we demand equal rights in respect to other nations of the peace treaties of Versailles Third, we demand land and territory and settlement of our surplus population. Fourth, only a national comrade Only those of German blood regardless of creed. Consequently, no Jew A few days later, they changed their name to the National Socialist Hitler was the party Ernst Hanfstaengl. Because right now, here in Munich, a movement is starting so strong that all young, powerful, It is the National Socialist To make it absolutely clear, Elise Pogh, Elise Hess from 1921, A letter to her former college teacher. When the first party congress is held, At this first public presentation, I get the impression We are not alone. The idea of the fatherland is growing. Tarl Walle, Augsburg, former SA member. The German economy collapses. On August 1923, hyperinflation sets in. Everything is getting worse. Famine, a loaf of bread is 140 billion. Then reduced again to 80 billion. Famine, famine everywhere. Kathe Kollwitz, painter and sculptress. The national associations and believe that parliamentary democracy Interview with the Daily Mail newspaper If a Mussolini were to appear in Germany, then the people more than Mussolini Adolf Hitler. A large revolt from the right in Bavaria Henrietta Schneider, Report of the regional government Munich, November 9th, 1923. The day before yesterday, Hitler promised General Von Lossow that he would not undertake anything. The answer to this word of honor with pistol in hand. Hitler extorted a declaration from General State Commissioner Von Kahr. General Von Lossow At the same time, the ministers present were taken into custody Hitler presents his suggestions and mentions Erich Ludendorff over the German National Army. He asks the already drunken audience, ''Do you accept this solution ''of a greater German state?'' Then as the crowd shouts its agreement, ''Morning will either find us ''or find us dead.'' The revolt is intended in the hands of the revolutionaries, and then, with a march on Berlin The Putschists are counting on defections and the Bavarian police. This, however, failed to materialize. On the morning of November 10th, marched from the Burgerbraukeller to Ludwigstrasse at at Odeonsplatz. Ten years later, Munich, November 9th, 1933. Amateur film of a tradition that actually dates the annual march of the old fighters Leading the column, as in 1923, We retreated to Cafe Stefani. People soon came in saying there had been and the enormous crowd of Hitler men Oskar Maria Graf, writer, From My life. On November 12th, 1923, Adolf Hitler is sent He is given cell number seven. The leaders of the Putsch in the main lecture theater on February 26th, 1924. Report of the Wurttemberg emissary, I attended one of the hearings myself who you could clearly see, used every opportunity Karl Moser von Filseck. Hitler delivering his defense plea. Letter to Clara and Fritz Hess. Hitler's final statement enclosed. It is one of the best, Even those in the courtroom were deeply moved. Rudolf Hess, a student. The verdict is handed down All of the accused, are found guilty. In his 13 months in Landsberg prison, Adolf Hitler begins the transcript that portrays and his development as a politician, and sets out his worldview. I decided not only to clarify the goals but also to draw a picture With that, I also had the chance to give a representation Adolf Hitler, foreword to Mein Kampf. The biographical parts of his book are, to a great extent, However, his political goals His view of the world is voluntaristic. He sees it as he wants to see it. Hitler's political gospel is derived of a struggle for existence. It reflects the permanent fight transferred from nature to human society. This struggle is, in his view, in which so-called high quality races At its head is supposedly a white person the founders of culture. Like most anti-Semites before him, disguised as a religious community. He sees Jews in history as being parasites and as contaminates For hours, the black-haired Jew boy whom he pollutes with his blood, With the same hidden agenda, with the inevitable Adolf Hitler, Mein Kampf. In another chapter, Hitler drafts plans for his Aryan-German people. We are stopping and turning our gaze If today we speak of new land in Europe, we can primarily only have in mind Russia Adolf Hitler, Mein Kampf. Diary, January 14th, 1925. At the end of the month, Hitler wants to call of the National Socialist The only thing to do. Joseph Goebbels. Hitler's remaining sentence of three years, 333 days, according to the pedantically On February 27th, 1925, In the first round of elections Erich Ludendorff and other nationalistic groups. He only receives 1.1 percent of the votes. When Paul von Hindenburg enters the race Hitler orders his party to support Hitler and Ludendorff Hitler is now the sole leader Diary, April 26th, 1925, Hindenburg is elected. Is he the man Is he not too old, too easy to influence? Bella Fromm, German-Jewish journalist. From 1924 onwards, This leads to the five golden years Looking back on it now, I see the mad whirl as a kind of Pompeii reveal Sefton Delmer, correspondent The Nazis hated culture itself because it is essentially international Christopher Isherwood, In the 1920s, Berlin was ahead of everything It had everything. Reinhardt's Great Theater, the most beautiful bars Berlin was productive and at the same time practical, Marlene Dietrich, Art was no longer a mere ornament of life, Cubism, futurism, expressionism, whatever you want to call it, this is how we were. This was our world. So shaken and shocked Surrealism? Of course, what else? Vicki Baum, writer and journalist. Despite the lack of political success, First in Munich and Weimar, then from 1927 onwards, Diary, Nuremberg, August 4th, 1929. A stampede of people Outside, the drums are already booming. Torchlight processions are endlessly long. Joseph Goebbels, NSDAP leader of Berlin. The party conventions are without question Just as he was involved in building the SA to the color of the collar patches, he concerned himself with the planning right down to the decorations Albert Krebs, NSDAP leader, Hamburg. Through the city, a triumphant procession. Everyone cheering and throwing flowers. March past almost four hours. A sea of joy and flowers. Joseph Goebbels, diary. The continuing fragmentation is advantageous for the rise of the NSDAP. In elections, from the splinter and protest parties. After imprisonment in Landsberg, Hitler becomes the sole leader He feels chosen by destiny to show Germany Although the party and membership increases only slowly, the personality cult This Fuhrer cult holds across ideological divisions Between 1925 and 1929, is marked by activism, dynamism, Nearly 60% of new party members Street processions, press promotions created an atmosphere There were countless clashes even dead people left in the square. Horst Wessel, autobiography. On February 1930, one of the casualties For the last time, For the fight, we all stand prepared. Soon, Hitler's banners will fly over all streets. The time of bondage will last With diligence, through learning, slowly, the specter of Asian Bolshevism systematically implemented I once made the decision, On November 16th, 1928, for the first time after the ban on public speaking Hitler speaks allegedly in front of 18,000 supporters. For the first time, speaking into a microphone. For the first time, in every corner of a large space. Thirteen years regime, and as a result, just a pile of ruin, We confess to install just one party that party knows only Germany. Hail! Hail! National comrades, victory or defeat, the middle class is in destitute, the finances, so it is typically German Adolf Hitler neither finished school He occasionally lived He refused to pursue a regular job. To this day, it seems inexplicable Out of nowhere, Hitler became the Fuhrer, One of the most powerful men who brought the world and death to millions of people. The nation worshiped him During his lifetime, No one should know how or who he was. Hitler's contemporaries, flesh out the picture. Who was Hitler? October 1929, angry autumn after a beautiful summer, rain and calm weather and it wasn't the weather. For the first time on the street, Sebastian Haffner, journalist, memoirs. The SPD and since then, led a coalition government This falls apart one year after the death over domestic policy differences. In 1930, Chancellor Bruning to dissolve parliament 24 months early. Bruning is determined to govern if necessary, without a majority. Nationalist Socialists The rise of the party Ernst Niekisch, Following the example of Italy movements which are called fascist In some Eastern European states, dictatorial governments A union of fascists A party demonstration Sir Oswald Mosley, In 1930, and the National Socialists with a vote of 18%. Less than three years later, the National Socialist Party Unemployment had risen to 6,014,000. New Year's order, December 31st, 1931: The Army of Brownshirts The movement has suffered Comrades, at the beginning of this year, I thank you for everything through dedicated work You can enter the New Year proud of what you achieved Adolf Hitler. After an internal party discussion Adolf Hitler decides to run in the German presidential elections Diary: Berlin, February 16th, 1932. What a strange country must be decided between Thalmann, Thea Sternheim, art collector and author. Again, it was the politics of toleration to vote for Hindenburg Golo Mann, son of Thomas and Katia Mann. Diary: Monday, February 29th, 1932. Who will win? Henrietta Schneider, housekeeper. Election campaign flight April 1932. Soon Hitler had sunk into morose apathy. He just sat there, wads of cotton in his ears. A complete contrast to the glad-hand As the aircraft door was flung open, Hitler ducked out and immediately There he stood, his hand raised in greeting. Sefton Delmer, British correspondent Diary: Weimar, April 10th, 1932. Sunday... A second round of voting Hindenburg Harry Graf Kessler, In June 1932, Franz von Papen, on behalf forms a right-wing conservative cabinet The new chancellor and, according to Hitler's demands, asked the Reich president on July 31st. Diary: May 31st, 1932. Lotte is coming on Sunday. She's planning a trip Yesterday, Bruning resigned. Now what? Henrietta Schneider. The hero of Tannenberg, had a dull spirit, a grumpy field marshal With truly Germanic blind loyalty, he betrayed the pious chancellor Bruning was fired. His successor, the comparatively was soon the target of wild intrigue. Klaus Mann, son of Katia and Thomas Mann. For far too long, we had been content about the house painter Hitler. Carl Zuckmayer, German-Austrian dramatist. Diary: Sunday, July 31st, 1932. The hatred of the parties is awful. At ten o'clock, He is plagued with neuralgia. Henrietta Schneider. The Triumph of the National Socialists is a Pyrrhic victory. Diary: August 1st, 1932 election results. We have gained a little ground, Now we have to seize power Either way, We won't get Joseph Goebbels. As almost all the major parties want to bring down Von Papen's government. Reich President Von Hindenburg dissolves and calls new elections In the German elections of November 1932, the SPD had 7.25 million, Together, both Workers' Parties Manes Sperber, Austrian writer Many leftists believed that Hitler and had ceased to be a menace. Christopher Isherwood, January 1st, 1933. Hitler was in a good mood that evening Before he left On the first day of the New Year... Then he looked at me and said, This year belongs to us. Ernst Hanfstaengl, After Hindenburg had decided the president turned his attention to the forces of the great that operated with Hitler against Bruning, He took their view of Hitler. The reconstruction and further expansion of the great agrarian was to be taken forward. But the power was not to be transferred Ernst Niekisch, Diary: Monday, January 30th, 1933. Elsa came back from school Then we knew Hitler Henrietta Schneider. A fragment of film produced It shows thousands of extras through the Brandenburg Gate. It is supposed to remind viewers That the Nazis are enemies. Enemies for me and everything dear to me. I was not for a moment Where I was mistaken was how terrible Sebastian Haffner. The majority of his ministers were members He utterly despised the party and was convinced that he would one day To be able to carry this out, he set one condition He wanted the power Ernst Niekisch. Speech in the Berlin Sportpalast, I cannot divest myself and stand firmly by the conviction when the millions and with us will hail the new hard-won that we have created together. The new German Reich glory and justice. Amen. [German spoken audio] Adolf Hitler, Reich Chancellor. The Reichstag elections of March 5th, are the last more or less free elections On the streets, The terror that was felt everywhere but it influenced Manes Sperber. In the elections, the NSDAP profits gaining 43.9%. It has to form a coalition The majority of Germans don't want The Democratic parties because 12.3% of the voters March 12th, 1933, press dispatch. The Office of the Reichstag sent the newly elected members According to a directive, the Communist members of the Assembly Vossische Zeitung Newspaper. The Reich government does not intend But... Two days later, I was sitting not as a Reichstag deputy, I was an observer. On March the 23rd, 1933, in which the Enabling Act Artur Axmann, member of the leadership This does not change the face of communism With the so-called Enabling Act, Hitler demands extraordinary powers thus paving the way for a dictatorship. The Social Democrats were the only members [German spoken audio]. But vulnerable does not mean dishonorable. Despite my conviction, [German spoken audio]. I was not unimpressed by Veld's speech. Artur Axmann. Our freedom and our lives Article One of the Act of legislative powers The legislative Parliament has virtually abolished itself. Gentlemen... Since January 30th, a revolution has taken place in Germany, which in our history will one day be rightly called It is obvious that a historical process as with every battle, be accompanied here and there He overrode the Constitution and thus won the fight for unlimited power Lutz Graf Schwerin von Krosigk, Anyone who did not fight effectively served it. Esther, Countess of Schwerin, I, as a natural coward, kept my mouth shut. Marie Luise Kaschnitz, writer, notes. People cling to life. You could go along with it, but you could also keep a low profile Alder Schaefer, writer. Letter from prison June 7th, 1933. You know that imprisonment What could I really do outside Shrug off the sad looks of the workers with a humiliated heart and tell them It's better to be outwardly unfree and inwardly face the future Julius Leber, SPD member of the Reichstag. The first improvised concentration camps and are then taken over by Himmler's SS, At the Nuremberg victory rally SA Chief of Staff, Ernst Rohm is the most prominent and clearly his right-hand man. Rohm shows his loyalty Privately, however, he criticizes Hitler severely Thanks to his instinct for power, spread by opponents that the leaders of the SA, are planning a coup. Diary: Berlin, June 24th, 1934. Politically, it stinks. Nobody knows why exactly. A power struggle is impending Erich Ebermayer, writer. The differences of opinion especially concerning Before the SA leadership, Rohm finally calls for the German Army Diary: Sunday, July 1st, 1934. Mutiny of the SA leaders in Munich Hitler himself helped arrest the gang Henrietta Schneider. On July 2nd, Hitler announces in which Rohm was one of the last victims. He was shot on July 2nd, 1934. Hans Frank, Bavarian Minister of Justice, To crush the alleged revolt by Rohm, whose leaders have brought the police, The SS, which was formerly is rewarded for its murderous service. On July 20th, 1934, Hitler decrees: In view of the great services of the SS, particularly in connection I hereby promote them within the NSDAP. Adolf Hitler. With that, Hitler has forged The SA becomes a folklore club Hitler swore that only 77 people It had been unavoidable like Willi Schmid in Munich, for example. The SS were in a hurry to shoot without court proceedings. You have to consider how many Friedelind Wagner, Diary: Berlin, August 1st, 1934. At lunchtime, People are friendly and peaceful. Even the young people The Berliner Zeitung newspaper Condition deteriorating, pulse weaker, so the end is near. This death does not come at a good time. Erich Ebermayer. The newspaper reports the following The government has enacted that is hereby announced. The office will be merged which means all authority of the president goes to the Fuhrer Calvin Schild, retired pastor, Ballenstedt diary. Diary: Wednesday, October 17th, 1934. A law has been made. Hitler will remain the leader Henrietta Schneider. The magic formula the Fuhrer has ordered. The Fuhrer wishes. The Fuhrer accepts. The Fuhrer forbids, became the completely new, to issue directives of state life in Germany. Hans Frank. Arrived in Munich around 8:00 which was very interesting. Hitler seems popular here, John F Kennedy, At first, what surprised me as far as I could see, didn't seem to mind that so much of their splendid culture or soon became aware to be sure there lurked the terror of the Gestapo The vast majority with what had happened socialists, pacifists, and to the Jews. William Shirer, correspondent Departure for Cologne via Frankfurt. All towns are very attractive showing that the Nordic races The Germans really are too good. John F Kennedy: diary. I had to think a lot about the comments She said she went to all the ceremonies but she was never able to see him her eyes filled with tears. Eric Korte, Hitler seemed modest, middle-class, rather dull and self-conscious, yet with a strange tenderness Martha Dodd, In private, belong to his private life, he was uncomplicated. Rochus Misch, SS bodyguard regiment. Simple lower middle-class life It attracted a lot of empathy. It gave him a lot of credit Otherwise, his simple manner He often emphasized: If I'm simple and unpretentious, That way, my simplicity Albert Speer, the Kransberg-Protokolle. Goering had become fat and out of shape, and his love of medals and decorations. His greed for earthly goods Robert Coulondre, who served as an ambassador to Berlin wrote that he was still the best. Paul Stehlin, Air Force Attache It has been suggested many times that Hitler had unwavering faith As far as the Reichsmarschall this assumption is true, unfortunately. Heinz Guderian, For the rest of the evening, Do you know the difference He asked, and when nobody could answer, Goebbels is the maximum amount of nonsense Goering is the maximum amount a man can hang on his chest. Friedelind Wagner. Berlin, November 1937. In November, the hunting exhibition Strong foreign participation causing a sensation in Berlin and impressing visiting guests Our French countrymen came in droves. Paul Stehlin. He condemned the elegant passions like hunting or horse racing. These were the last remnants He made fun of them a lot. Albert Speer. Hitler's evil spirit was Goebbels. Ernst Hanfstaengl. On the same evening, A small man He was surprisingly ugly. His defect, a clubfoot, barely lessened He was, however, very intelligent, and after Hitler, Paul Stehlin. I couldn't care less what people think, Goebbels was an interesting man, He was only dangerous towards the end. Zarah Leander, Swedish singer and actress. He was capable of recognizing of the National Socialist system. He wasn't courageous enough In front of Hitler, a little man. Heinz Guderian, Major General. Speech in Munich, March 14th, 1936. With the confidence of a sleepwalker, I am following the path Adolf Hitler. Diary: Sunday, March 16th, 1935. In the evening, we heard a proclamation In answer to the adoption Hitler introduced Jubilation in Berlin. Henrietta Schneider. Interview with Ward Price, January 17th, 1935. I know the horrors of war. No gains can compensate I have seen that war but the contrary. I have witnessed Hence, I can, quite frankly, state, Germany will never break Adolf Hitler. I saw a sign on the shop door, &quot;Dogs and Jews are not allowed.&quot; Edgar Feuchtwanger. Diary: Sunday, September 15th, 1935. On the radio tonight, of today's resolutions in the Reichstag. That is to say, the laws the anti-Jewish laws. Marriage between Aryans Karl Vincelette, retired. I now propose to the Reichstag which will be read out to you Behind all three laws stands the party Marriages between Jews and nationals Our Furhrer, our savior and creator. Sieg Heil! Sieg Heil! Sieg Hail! Diary: Berlin, December 10th, 1935. The Genetic Health Act, and envisages for engaged couples If things continue like this, So far, Erich Ebermayer. Before the end of Culture Week, Even from the air, I could see the mass of people On the way back from the airport, the boiling heat suddenly enveloped me. Marching music, swastika flags and the pavements brown with people. Paul-Otto Schmidt, experiences. The march past took four hours. He held his right arm out for literally the entire time. Afterwards, I asked him His answer: willpower. Nevile Henderson, Each time I noticed their faces full of near-biblical devotion As if delirious, and greeted him Paul-Otto Schmidt. Over the years, the procedures The form, in a debriefing must be an irreversible ritual. For as long as he lives, canonization would provide with Hitler's borrowed charisma On Friday 11th of March 1938, Austrian radio broadcast It was 7:45 in the evening The chancellor was going to speak. Kurt Schuschnigg said he would capitulate to Hitler's wishes. He ended his speech with the words, &quot;God protect Austria.&quot; Dr. Eduard Bloch, Hitler's family doctor, written in US exile on March 15th, 1941. Apart from his resolve as so plainly described in Mein Kampf, Hitler had two reasons for wishing It opened the door of Czechoslovakia and the more spacious portals Winston Churchill, the Second World War. If it is still claimed today against the will of the Austrians, that doesn't coincide Fritz Wiedemann, adjutant to Adolf Hitler. Hitler's speech from a balcony As Fuhrer and chancellor I report before history, the entry of my homeland On March 25th, 1938, Hitler begins Hitler wants to confirm the annexation He estimates 80% He's more than surprised the referendum results are announced. 99.75% have voted for Anschluss, He's really very lonely, He's too soft with them, They need a man to lord it over them. Joseph Goebbels: diary. In October 1938, Willi Forst shoots Bellamy Speech to the Nazi Women's League There was a time when liberalism but the faces of German women They were gloomy and sad than today. Today we see countless beaming, Adolf Hitler. He knew that he could have He refused because he didn't know, whether they favored him Albert Speer. As for Eva Braun, and the SS knew of her Charles Bewley, 1933 to 1939. Privately, Hitler was very nice. Eva Braun loved him very much Herta Schneider, friend of Eva Braun. Diary: November 18th, 1934. I don't want it to be my fault Eva Braun. For several months Eva Braun keeps a diary. The diary includes the period probably to get Hitler to commit to her. Diary: March 11th, 1935. If only I'd never met him. I'm in despair, He only needs me for certain purposes, When he says he loves me, Eva Braun. That was when Eva Braun This act of desperation Christa Schroeder, Politically, she had no idea. You often heard Eva Braun complaining, &quot;I don't know anything, Hitler had got used but he didn't give in She was subject to a lot of strict rules. When she danced, she did so secretly Christa Schroeder. The efforts my wife and I made to take private dancing lessons &quot;No,&quot; he said categorically. For a statesman, All of these balls Besides, It's exactly this Waltz mania and how it contributed Ernst Hanfstaengl from 1937 in exile. Hitler maintains in surroundings In addition he also has a residence Unnoticed by the public, I don't have any stocks. I don't own shares in any company. I don't earn dividends. Adolf Hitler in the Krupp works, The Reich Finance Ministry declares that Hitler due to his constitutional position. As of 1934, Hitler no longer does so. When he had to make big decisions, Here life was geared Stalls around Obersalzberg, stopping in small guesthouses, the inner peace and confidence that surprised the world. Albert Speer. He didn't drink a drop of alcohol He didn't smoke. His asceticism was real Hans Frank. One of those present asked his physician forced him to keep such a strict diet, and he answered that his Spartan habits Gustaf Mannerheim, Finnish field marshal. Incidentally, the Fuhrer tried to spoil Although he didn't want he suddenly began talking about how awful Gertraud Traudl Junge, He said that enjoying meat Then again, alcohol stimulated smoking. This was how one vice led to another. Nicotine was, in his opinion, `He toyed with the idea throughout Germany. The campaign would start printed on the cigarette packet. Christa Schroeder. Hitler is driven by the notion My personal last will and testament. Berlin, May 2nd, 1938. In the case of my death, in the right-hand temple My coffin should resemble the others. My entire estate To Fraulein Eva Braun, Munich, a lifelong allowance To my sister Angela, Dresden, a lifelong allowance To my sister Paula, Vienna, a lifelong allowance To my stepbrother Alois Hitler, To my trusted Julius Schulte, and a lifelong monthly pension I appoint the master of the Treasury In the case of his death, Martin Bormann. Adolf Hitler. Adolf Hitler neither finished school He occasionally lived He refused to pursue a regular job. To this day, it seems inexplicable Out of nowhere, Hitler became the Fuhrer, One of the most powerful men who brought the world and death to millions of people. The nation worshiped him During his lifetime, No one should know how or who he was. Hitler's contemporaries, flesh out the picture. Who was Hitler? He has managed to captivate that's not even dependent that helped him into power. I often have indeed, in all social circles. Robert Coulondre, 1938 and 1939. VEHICLES STOP! BORDER CUSTOMS Grabow lies near the German border. Whenever we came up to the border, ran across the borderline, Later, I learned that who were raised to love Germany. GERMAN AND FREE - WE WANT TO BE! Ruth Elias, Czech Jew. Diary, Monday, September 12th, 1938. In the evening, we heard the close Adolf Hitler called on President Benes. If the Sudeten Germans are not protected, God preserve the existing peace. Diary, Tuesday, September 27th, 1938. Hitler spoke If Benes doesn't accept his offer, That means war. Diary, Wednesday, September 28th, 1938. Tomorrow, a meeting Daladier, Chamberlain, and Mussolini. Henriette Schneider, In spite of the harshness and ruthlessness I got the impression that here when he had given his word. Neville Chamberlain, letter to his sister. Diary, Friday, September 30th, 1938. The negotiations in Munich The Czechs have to pull out Hitler, our prince of peace. Henriette Schneider. The genius of the Fuhrer even in the face of war, without the use of force. Alfred Jodl, Major General. In Munich, the failed putsch of 1923 The SS marched through all over the city. The radio announced Edgar Feuchtwanger. [German spoken audio] [German spoken audio] [German spoken audio] Heil SS men! Heil Hitler! I swear to you, I swear to you, Adolf Hitler Adolf Hitler loyalty and bravery. On Monday, November 7th, 1938, the stateless 17-year-old goes to the German embassy, demands to speak is taken to the duty counselor vom Rath, and shoots him. Grynszpan describes the motive for his fellow believers, Walter Tausk, German Jew, Breslau, diary. Following a traditional march at a social evening Joseph Goebbels announces I go to the party reception Very busy. I report the matter to the Fuhrer. He orders: &quot;Withdraw the police.&quot; &quot;The Jews should for once feel Joseph Goebbels, diary. Diary, November 1938. In the night a pogrom breaks out all over Germany. All the synagogues are on fire. Windows are smashed the wares destroyed, Thousands of Jewish men are arrested Kathe Kollwitz, painter and sculptress. When that segment either as police and saw the destruction a sequence unfolded An unmistakable, deep sense of depression People said, I'm ashamed to be a German. Rudolf Bing, Diary, December 6th, 1938. A boycott has been issued The ban against Jews cinemas, cabarets, the radio tower, In addition, all outdoor as well as to the Reich Monument and the Zeughaus. Erich Ebermayer, writer. Harassed by the Nazi authorities, succeed in leaving their homeland Diary, January 1st, 1939. A new year. May it be a year of peace. Thea Sternheim, art collector and author. On the 13th of February 1939, that he intends to take action German propaganda is adjusted accordingly. Diary, Berlin, Foreign broadcasters are reporting arrived in Berlin today Does this mean war after all? Erich Ebermayer. In the meantime, of the statement The Czechoslovak president has declared of the Czech people and country in the hands The Fuhrer accepted this declaration and expressed his intention under the protection of the German Reich and guaranteeing them of their ethnic life Paul-Otto Schmidt, For three hours, Hitler conducted a discussion We all knew that Suddenly, the door opened. Hitler rushed out and proclaimed, &quot;People, good news!&quot; &quot;Hacha has signed the agreement.&quot; &quot;I will go down Christa Schroeder, Letter to Elizabeth Wagner, The Fuhrer drove to Prague He's staying in Prague Castle. In the morning, there will be a parade. His dream is thus fulfilled. Eduard Wagner, artillery general. Secret report Everyone is awaiting It's generally assumed he has to move on Primarily the takeover of Danzig These questions' solutions will be met with understanding Felix Dechevsky, Polish general consul. Letter to his wife, There is a break in the crisis, That is one If Hitler doesn't do anything, and if he does do something, Harold Nicholson, Member of Parliament, The summer was winding down. The weather was warm and sultry, beer and wine gardens enjoying themselves It was difficult to conceive or causing war to break out over them. William Shirer, correspondent for the Columbia August 13th, 1939, Obersalzberg, Paul-Otto Schmidt, Hitler was completely set on war. &quot;The British are guilty of everything.&quot; &quot;The Poles &quot;The democracies are inferior to Germany Was the recurring keynote The next day, was received at the Berghof. Hitler spoke &quot;I'm firmly convinced will enter into a general war.&quot; On August 19th, begin their honeymoon in upper Silesian Raciborz. They take Erich's camera. For 12 days, the newlywed Leipzigers During this time, Adolf Hitler Diary, Paris, August 19th, 1939. Announcement of a German-Russian Thea Sternheim. At the end of July, on Hitler's approval, Foreign Minister von Ribbentrop set the foundations which also includes the partitioning Hitler is in a hurry will prevent a motorized war On August 19th, with both hands after Hitler had suggested splitting the Baltic I noted that it means Russia Ernst von Weizsacker, Secretary of State Telegram to the German Chancellor, I thank you for your letter. I hope that the German-Soviet will be a turning point in political relations J. Stalin. Addressed to the Commanders in Chief It was becoming clear to me might take place at an unfavorable time. Here is the basis for this finding. It depends essentially on me, for it is a fact that probably of the entire German people as I do. In the future, who has more authority than I. My presence, therefore, is of great value, but I can be eliminated Adolf Hitler. Suffocatingly humid days Very calm. Now only a few cars, but trains. Trains almost without a break. Whistling shrilly. You can't do anything. Can't think or feel anything other than no war. Marie Luise Kaschnitz, author, notes. On August 30th, of the Oder River and Stettin, the harbor. Government cruise liners placed under the protection Two days after the honeymooners the Second World War begins. Erich Hueser becomes a soldier Diary, Wednesday, August 30th, 1939. In the afternoon, heading for the border. Poland has declared mobilization. Henriette Schneider, East Prussia. Private war diary, General Franz Halder. Demands of the Fuhrer Destruction of Poland It is not about achieving but about destroying the enemy. The means are of little concern. It is disturbing to see that he bears and accepts. Eduard Wagner. Message from Commander of Westerplatte in Gdynia, September 1st, 1939, 04:50. At 04:45, opened fire The barrage continues. Henryk Sucharski, Morning, 10 a.m., Reichstag session. Hitler appears deadly serious. For the first time in field-gray uniform, Then Hitler speaks without notes, Then comes the sentence. &quot;Since 5:45 a.m., Rudolf Jordan, Provincial NSDAP Leader. Address before the Reichstag, &quot;I've once more put on that coat &quot;I will not take it off again or I will not survive the outcome.&quot; In the early hours, I was accordingly instructed to arrange for a meeting with the Minister I accordingly handed the final ultimatum from His Majesty's government pointing out that were received by His Majesty's government of the suspension a state of war would exist Nevile Henderson, Paul-Otto Schmidt, Chief Interpreter Then I took Hitler's most prominent people were gathered &quot;What news?&quot; Asked anxious voices. I answered with a shrug: and entered the next room, while Ribbentrop stood at the window. I remained and slowly translated When I finished, there was total silence. Hitler sat as though turned to stone, After a while, he turned to Ribbentrop. &quot;What now?&quot; Ribbentrop replied with a quiet voice: &quot;I suppose the French will issue As my job was now finished, I left and told those waiting a state of war will exist Goring turned to me and said: &quot;If we lose this war, War diary, September 13th, 1939. The Fuhrer's motorcade roared by. We saw our Fuhrer. He was going to the front. Gerhard M., soldier, Flensburg. Some 16,000 members and 30,000 are wounded Sources report 68,000 dead Tens of thousands of Polish civilians are killed in the course Diary, September 28th, 1939. Warsaw has finally fallen. Mountains of corpses have to be removed. The Russians are marching into Poland and are moving up Scattered Polish divisions Udo von Alvensleben, The next day in Warsaw, The Lantschner brothers filmed him. I was standing near Hitler Mesmerized. Without exception, they appeared ready If he were to give the order, Leni Riefenstahl, director and actress. Fuhrer spoke at length and in detail of the former provinces The social strata, could be germanized. In principle, and have the right hereditary disposition. A special cultural heritage group Here, language would be He said he wasn't interested as they were supporters Gerhard Engel, Army Adjutant to Hitler, At lunchtime on May 9th, and traveled Turned the train around Under a beautiful starry sky, of the Fuhrer's headquarters, Wilhelm Keitel, Supreme High Commander In the first Armed Forces report at noon on May 10th, The Fuhrer has personally taken over supreme command I wrestled with him for half an hour He declared he wanted to remain anonymous and not diminish I did not let up, Wilhelm Keitel. Hitler took the credit Albert Speer, memoirs. Diary, Friday, May 10th, 1940. Now the war has really begun. Chamberlain has stepped down, One bad person has left, Henriette Schneider. Thus, on the night of the 10th of May, I acquired the chief power in the state. I cannot conceal that I was conscious I felt as if I were walking with destiny but a preparation Winston Churchill, The Second World War. May 23rd, 1940. We've done it. The Air Force I was able The Fuhrer wants Hans Jeschonnek, Chief to Erhard Milch, Diary, Friday, June 14th, 1940. News at one o'clock at night. Paris is occupied Flag raised for three days. Henriette Schneider. France offered a ceasefire on June 17th. I've never seen Hitler Heinz Linge, valet to Adolf Hitler. France's peace offer was submitted to him He slapped his thigh in a lively gesture. We were to one side and observed the scene Christa Schroeder, He Was My Chief. Heinrich Hoffmann, photographer. Keitel, who was carried away coined the fatal phrase: &quot;My Fuhrer, you are the greatest Franz Halder, Chief of the General Staff. Part of Hitler's growing self-deification involved believing it himself. Hitler was at the height of his power. He was the master of Europe. Gustaf Mannerheim, Germany had air supremacy over Europe. An invasion of Great Britain Ernst von Weizsacker. A few days in the English capital to recognize the difference Here, no one was considering capitulation. Julius Deutsch, Austrian socialist It was only after France thanks to her island advantage, developed, out of the pangs of defeat a national resolve Winston Churchill. Diary, Saturday, July 20th, 1940. Hitler spoke in the Reichstag. Made an offer of peace to England. Henriette Schneider. Memoirs in diary form, An unpleasant meeting von Brauchitsch, and Keitel. Due to English and other press reports, the Fuhrer, for the first time, and the strike figures. The Fuhrer is visibly depressed. Had the impression Gerhard Engel. The Fuhrer and the Supreme Commander the Fuhrer Headquarters, Nine copies. Second copy. Order number 21, Operation Barbarossa. Even before the end the German army has to be prepared in a quick campaign, Operation Barbarossa. The bulk of the Russian army should be destroyed in bold operations via tank pincer movements of strong combat units Adolf Hitler. Memoirs in diary form, The order for Barbarossa has been issued. The Army Supreme Commander whether the Fuhrer wants In my opinion, the Fuhrer himself He hopes the English will capitulate and doesn't believe Gerhard Engel. Diary, Monday, June 9th, 1941. There's a big operation here. The streets are full of military Henriette Schneider, East Prussia. When he decided on the Eastern Campaign he told Eva Braun Christa Schroeder. When Adolph heard the music of Wagner, he was transformed, He became quiet, flexible, manageable. The unease disappeared from his face. What had moved him August Kubizek, a childhood friend. Wagner's music Ernst Hanfstaengl, until 1937, He loved the Wagner Opera the most. Other than that, symphonies by Beethoven Of the light entertainment pieces, he appreciated The Bat Bormann proved his musical knowledge Heinrich Hoffmann. It was almost always the same repertoire The only popular song Hitler allowed which often concluded the concert. Gertraud &quot;Traudl&quot; Junge, You'll be hearing that It'll be the victory fanfare How do you like it? Adolf Hitler to the first bars the Russian Fanfare, June 21st, 1941. Diary, Saturday, June 21st, 1941. Wild rumors are coming from the border. Henriette Schneider. War diary of the Army Group North, Beginning of the invasion, 3:05 a.m. The entire front Hubert Freiherr von Griessenbeck, major. Is he mad, this Hitler? He could've allied against Communist Russia or with Communist Russia but he invaded both. Yes, he is mad. Thank God! Klaus Mann, a life's report. Christa Schroeder. It all began so promisingly. In the first two days in the Wolfsschanze, of a large map of Europe &quot;In a few weeks, we'll be in Moscow.&quot; &quot;There's no doubt about that.&quot; &quot;Then I'll raise Moscow to the ground.&quot; &quot;I'll build a reservoir there.&quot; &quot;The name Moscow Wilhelm Keitel, to Field Marshal Fedor von Bock The speedy collapse since Russia cannot be subjugated. The Fuhrer was concerned &quot;How much time and how much time do I still need?&quot; Russia, Army Group South, letter, 1941. It is our war, not as the enemy propaganda They don't know that Hitler We know that he would do That gives us unlimited trust. The Fuhrer leaves no comrade in the lurch, it's because there was something Horst Rocholl, Diary, October 10th, 1941, 11:30 p.m. It's snowing in Russia now, Eduard Wagner, quartermaster general. There is a winter, you know, in Russia. For a good many months, There is snow, Hitler forgot about this Russian winter. He must've been very loosely educated. We all heard about it at school, Winston Churchill. Diary, Thursday, December 11th, 1941. Around 3:00, we listened The war with America is also official now. The Fuhrer will make sure Henriette Schneider. When the German army, surprised got stuck in the Russian ice and snow, but as before, &quot;There is only a very thin veil &quot;We have to be patient.&quot; &quot;The Russian resistance will not hold.&quot; Christa Schroeder. On December 17th, I visited the generals as well as the Seventh Army Corps, to again learn The three generals were beginning Black ice, making all movement difficult. The Russians are prepared and we have nothing. Heinz Guderian, Colonel General. Hans Halder, Midnight, summoned to the Fuhrer: &quot;Disengagement is out of the question.&quot; &quot;The enemy has only made &quot;Setting up a rear echelon is illusory.&quot; &quot;The front is suffering &quot;The enemy has more soldiers.&quot; &quot;He has no more artillery.&quot; &quot;He is much worse off than we are.&quot; Adolf Hitler, December 16th, 1941. Commanders, unit leaders, to force troops to hold their position on the flank or in the rear. Only with this kind of warfare to get reinforcements from the homeland Diary, January 11th, 1942. How meek Friedrich Kellner, But the burden of work in the course of the war From the winter of 1941-1942 onward, In the end, Hitler began having Christa Schroeder. Diary, Berlin, March 3rd, 1942. The hallmarks of the situation. Further erosion Slow further deterioration of the economic Ulrich von Hassell, diplomat In Rostov-on-Don, several waves of retreat rolled The oil tanks were opened, all so that they wouldn't fall On August 3rd, 1942, Within three days, Soviet troops were scattered. Beyond Nalchik, barrier units work Not one step back. Mikhail Gorbachev, schoolboy. War diary, July 30th, 1942, day 404. In the bow of the River Don, the Sixth Army of Army Group B and the situation is at present unclear. Franz Halder. I wanted to come to the Volga, Adolf Hitler, in the Munich Burgerbraukeller, On September 11th, I was ordered to report They told me to take over the 62nd Army. My orders were to defend Stalingrad. After I accepted the order, &quot;How do you see this?&quot; I said I understand the order very well. I'll try to carry it out. Either I defend Stalingrad I got in the car and drove to Stalingrad. Vasily Chuikov, lieutenant general, The high point of the war Something unimaginable The North Cape, Pyrenees, Sahara, of a sphere Sure, there were bigger empires, but this one There was no reason for joy. You knew what lay ahead of us because the disproportion Udo von Alvensleben, army captain, diary. We knew that Hitler wouldn't stop and would keep but he sensed that it was not a battle but rather a battle to the death. Vasily Chuikov. I feel entitled to demand that Adolf Hitler to Heinz Guderian Diary, Sunday, November 8th, 1942. The Fuhrer spoke He laid into the war criminals again. The Americans Henriette Schneider. Dr. Theo Morell, diary, December 15th, 1942. Patient day. Sleeping badly Profundol. Up until the very end, that he would get them I knew that this was a terrible lie. Bernd Freytag von Loringhoven, Interrogation protocol lieutenant adjutant of the First Battalion on 1918 in Munster, Catholic. Men reached the limits of their endurance, and this limit We surrendered spontaneously. Around six o'clock in the morning, I began to cry, walked out of the shelter, At what point is one As I see it, very late. Albert Speer, The Cransberg Protocols. Adolf Hitler neither finished school He occasionally lived He refused to pursue a regular job. To this day, it seems inexplicable Out of nowhere, Hitler became the Fuhrer, He was one of the most powerful men who brought the world and death to millions of people. The nation worshiped him However, during his lifetime, No one should know how or who he was. Hitler's contemporaries, flesh out the picture: who was Hitler? His mother went to Mass I can't recall Adolf accompanying August Kubizek, a childhood friend Hitler had no emotional connection He thought the Christian religion and people-ensnaring institution. Christa Schroeder, If people think I'm a religious man, Adolf Hitler I can say with certainty I learned about Hitler's intention to liquidate patients not only incurable mental patients, His reasoning was that Fritz Wiedemann, personal adjutant until January 19th, 1939. Memoirs in diary form, August 8th, 1939. Today, we witnessed something cruel. Bouhler and Bormann showed Hitler It deals with the life and behavior in a number of sanatoriums. There was a long discussion afterward. The Fuhrer had a harsh attitude. If he had such a child, he'd request that it be put mostly for the sake of fellow humans. Gerhard Engel, army adjutant to Hitler. For many of Adolf Hitler's crimes, no documents exist that verify It's not so of the mentally handicapped, Sometime in early October 1939, Adolf Hitler signs a backdated order the day of the start of the war. With his signature, he authorizes Philipp Bouhler, and Hitler's young personal physician, Reich leader Bouhler and Dr. Brandt are entrusted with the responsibility so that patients who, on the basis of human judgment, can be accorded mercy killing Adolf Hitler. One day, we were surprised by a report that a euthanasia operation Family members received the ashes that the beloved deceased of pneumonia Through faulty communication and sometimes double deliveries of urns, unrest was created Reinhard Spitzy, The Bishop of Munster, finds the courage Sermon in Saint Lambert's Church, Now we must expect poor, to be killed sooner or later. Do you or I only have the right to live as long as we're recognized If it is legitimate to kill then woe betide our brave soldiers who return home from war If the principle that man is entitled is established and applied, then woe betide all of us Clemens August Graf von Galen, Von Galen's brave protest is based and it's successful. The conflict between the Hitler regime, and other public critics Hitler suspends the largest part for more than a year, after more than 70,000 people In less conspicuous forms, the euthanasia program was reintroduced and practiced right up The Fuhrer called me To start with, he spent a whole hour describing The Poles, only a thin Germanic layer. Underneath that, dreadful stock. The Jews, the worst that Only a master's heavy hand Alfred Rosenberg, director of the Foreign Policy Office Two days later, A brick wall about eight feet high around the entire desolate area from which all the Aryans and into which more than 400,000 Jews The entire population of the ghetto There was hardly a square yard As we picked our way the shadows of what had once been men in pursuit of someone or something, their eyes blazing Frequently, we pass by corpses Jan Karski, For a long time, researchers and prosecutors searched for the murder of European Jews. Such an order from Hitler on the Final Solution obviously doesn't exist. Service calendar of Heinrich Himmler. Himmler's lecture notes. Fuhrer Headquarters, Fuhrer, Wolfsschanze, July 18th, 1941, 4:00 p.m. Jewish question, exterminate as partisans. Restructuring of the Waffen-SS. In any case, I'm totally convinced, that the extermination of the Jews because it's unthinkable that Himmler without his knowledge. Nicolaus von Below, Immediately after the invasion the 3,000-man death squads and the Reich Security Service The political responsibility lies to whom Hitler has transferred If I'm asked whether I knew I have to say that I received an order as a spectator. I remember that we had to be A Navy captain, Liepaja. Around noon, an old man from Lower Saxony, Among the things he talked about was the shooting of Jews. He'd been told by another Colonel, Ernst Junger, Captain, Paris, diary. I saw a long, deep ditch. SS men and Latvian police were standing beside it. The terrain was overgrown with bushes, We watched about one and a half hours During this time, three to four trucks were brought in Then the victims were driven like cattle Each time, five had to march The shooting took place The victims stood facing us. I can remember exactly the victims collapsed. A Navy captain, Liepaja. Letter to the SS and Latvian Police Chief, January 3rd, 1942. The execution of the Jews is still the talk of the local population. The fate of the Jews is deplored and at the moment, you hear few people Among other things, there is a rumor circulating SS and Police Chief, Lapierre. Memoirs in diary form. A grim, gloomy mood. Fuhrer had a long discussion with Himmler, and afterward, there was the usual Gerhard Engel. Hitler never told me anything In foreign policy, the subject only arose from some country or another. Franz von Sonnleithner, NSDAP member, and after 1939, Adolf Hitler addressed in the Munich Burgerbraukeller You will recall the Reichstag session that if Judaism imagines for a moment that it can bring about for the extermination the result will not be but the extermination I was always derided as a prophet. Countless numbers of those are no longer laughing today. Those who are still laughing now Danziger Vorposten daily newspaper, May 13th, 1944. Jewry records major losses The core areas of Jewish settlement like those in Warsaw and Lublin, have today been neutralized. The settlements of one and a half are currently being dealt with Thus, in these countries alone, In other European countries, long-standing state measures Wilhelm Loebsack, Provincial NSDAP Propaganda Director During a military briefing the Reich Press Chief Dietrich In this newspaper article, it was alleged that the Russians had taken by the name of Majdanek. Pictures showed racks on which a large number well laid out in a German institution. The text said that Dietrich presented We stood there with bated breath The answer was swift. Those are the hands of Belgian children It's nothing but enemy propaganda. I believe that I have quoted In any case, we were all relieved. Franz von Sonnleithner, after 1939, Legation Councilor On the third day of the war, When I came to, there were many wounded We were at the mercy After a while, those who could move My comrades grabbed me under the arms because those who fell down Dmitrij Dmitrijenko. Since February 1938, Adolf Hitler has been In this capacity, he is responsible for the mass killings Whereas one to three percent some 50% of Red Army prisoners perish. Of the roughly 5.3 to 5.7 million 2.5 to 3.3 million die. Estimates vary. Only the grave diggers were given food. The camp was set up We scratched the bark off with a nail After a while, Boris Sheremet. Army command is fully aware and condones the starvation In November 1941, when the chiefs of staff of East Armies that the armies need but that they were starving Prisoners of war Working prisoners of war can, Eduard Wagner, quartermaster-general. Letter to Wilhelm Keitel. The fate of the Soviet prisoners of war The large majority of them have starved Alfred Rosenberg, Minister Wilhelm Keitel, Such doubts belonged to soldierly concepts Here we are dealing For this reason, I approve I keep hearing about everything. This is sheer nonsense. I know from personal observation that he knew everything. Heinz Linge, valet to Adolf Hitler. Up until 1940, Hitler looked younger After that, however, Up to 1943, he looked his age outwardly. Later, his rapid physical deterioration Professor Dr. Hans Karl von Hasselbach, The death of a human being He saw people as the links and he considered the first link Children were, in his eyes, by which the greater of a people was measured. Christa Schroeder. The Funny Privates. The soldiers that I met and only served the Fuhrer unwillingly, but all approved of war The war is the ultimate exertion This picture was deeply ingrained in them. Vilna Sturm, journalist and writer. Diary, Monday, July 26th, 1943. Mussolini has resigned. He's said to be ill. Last night Hamburg, Essen Henriette Schneider. While I endeavored for Hitler and the general staff our enemies launched five big attacks Although this action contradicted it had catastrophic consequences. Albert Speer. Diary of fighter pilot Hans Ahrens, who was born in 1921, That first night of terror on July 25th and the majority of all Hamburg residents. Personally, I'm glad As a soldier, it led to an ultimate resolute hatred Letter to Georg Zimmermann, Hamburg, July 28th, 1943. Dear Georg, we are still alive, No house left standing, The entire streets are blocked. Dead bodies are not salvaged. Impenetrable smoke, fumes Disintegration is in progress. No police anymore, nothing. Hamburg is lost forever. Magdalena Zimmermann. When I traveled to the Bardini I met an acquaintance on the train. He'd experienced it all in Hamburg It smelled so strongly of corpses that you couldn't get the stench Leaflets were dropped over Hamburg with quotes from the war speeches without any comments. Erich Kastner, writer, war diary. Hamburg, July 30th, 1943. My Hannele, words cannot express A government that cannot protect its women My Hannele, if I could only hear one word Your mother, Magdalena Zimmermann. When he traveled to Bavaria or the Fuhrer headquarters, he went by train so that he wasn't faced Bernd Freytag von Loringhoven, captain. During the entire war, Albert Speer. Dr. Theo Morell, Diary, September 23rd, 1943, 8:15 p.m. Examination after dinner. Strong flatulence, spasms from agitation, stomach shows increased fat formation. Prescribed a diet. He admired Morell and his art, and he was, in a sense, Albert Speer. New Year's Proclamation, 1944. The year 1944 will make hard The monstrous events of the war We're fully confident that we'll endure. Adolf Hitler. Diary, May 27th, 1944. An impression devastating. At the same time, Berliners are sitting amid the rubble as if it were peacetime. Ulrich von Hassell, a diplomat, Diary, May 9th, 1944. Patient A, tension headache on left side, legs trembling due to agitation. Invasion is imminent, but where? Dr. Theo Morell. The plutocratic world of the West can undertake whenever it wants. It will fail. Adolf Hitler's order of the day Hitler was told of the landing He expressed relief and said that it was now possible Nicolaus von Below, The conviction of the Germans that we wouldn't attack was a definite factor In the Omaha sector, which prisoners stated for maneuvers and defense exercises, accounted for some of the intensive Dwight D. Eisenhower, US General, Supreme Allied Commander, Europe. Heinz Linge, valet to Adolf Hitler. Among Hitler's habits, which despite our efforts, was that he kept asking the time, above all, during the war. I principally only ever stop Adolf Hitler in November 1942. On July 20th, 1944, I'd received the order to prepare from Mauerwald to Zossen, South of Berlin. It was a hot East Prussian summer's day. Mauerwald was located from the Wolfsschanze, where Stauffenberg's bomb exploded Bernd Freytag von Loringhoven. I remember thunder and at the same time, thick smoke. After a few seconds of complete silence, It was probably Field Marshal Keitel. Where is the Fuhrer? Heinz Buchholz, There were agitated calls for a doctor. A bomb exploded. Nothing happened to the boss, Christa Schroeder. Heinz Linge. When I arrived, I saw Hitler. He looked at me inquiringly with big eyes With a calm smile, he said: Linge, someone tried to kill me. Diary, Friday, July 21st, 1944. The radio broadcast details of the attack. The bomb was planted Around one o'clock, the Fuhrer spoke What would have happened The war would be over, and there would be Henriette Schneider. His confidence, but also his power consciousness now exceeded all boundaries of reason. Traudl Junge, Hitler's private secretary. Personal war diary, October 7th, 1944. Morning briefing. Beginning of the attack A long discussion with Goering. Station 12 heavy to protect the Fuhrer's headquarters. Keitel suggests relocating to Berlin, Werner Kreipe, General of Aviators, In the first days of November 1944, we moved out of the Wolfsschanze Traudl Junge. Germany was under intense pressure. At the end of 1944, Trapped in the east, Germany was strategically encircled Nevertheless, Hitler took The Nazis suppressed without mercy It was clear to us However, at the end of 1944, Germany was still able to defend itself Its military still consisted of whom 5.3 million were fighting troops. Georgy Zhukov, Commander in Chief, At just 19 years old, I was sitting on the roof of our house when I saw the postman My aunt called to the house: The death of my brother Helmut Kohl, schoolboy. Speech to the division commanders, in Adlerhorst, near Ziegenberg, Hesse. If we suffer a few more then this artificially maintained can suddenly collapse at any moment, Adolf Hitler. Hitler revealed the following Due to a noticeable weakness he decided to start the attack from there. The target had to be Antwerp. Siegfried Westphal, Major General, Chief of Staff On December 16th, 1944, General Bradley came to my headquarters our acute shortages Just as he entered my office, a staff officer came in It was through this same region that the Germans launched Dwight D. Eisenhower. German tanks have been spotted Rundstedt has ordered the tanks in nearly the same place They are heading to the Channel coastline toward Antwerp in order to stop the allies through which their main supplies come. Stefan Heym, It was my opinion that it was necessary to maximum effect. As a Gorka, I tried to get The troops pushing forward because low-hanging clouds I was worried Albert Speer, memoirs. As long as the weather it would be an ally of the enemy Dwight D. Eisenhower. Our last major offensive in the West that was so gloriously successful thanks to ten days of radiant sunshine. The Anglo-Americans were thus able Leon Degrelle, The Allies had expected by Christmas at the latest. The Ardennes offensive prevented that. However, how many men lost their lives Walter Rowland, industrialist, in the Ministry of Armaments Rudolf Jordan, Provincial NSDAP Leader, Defense Commissioner, December 25th, 1944. When we were sitting together tears appeared in my wife's eyes. Where will we be at Christmas next year? This was the question asked the question of the family's fate. This question would be asked and everywhere else in Germany. I was frightened, because I felt that but I had to remain the same person: Hitler's deputy, the spokesman of Germany hope I know today In the days after Christmas, it was clear that the expected success At the end of the year, Nicolaus von Below. Adolf Hitler, at the end of December 1944, I know the war is lost. Their superiority is too great. I will prefer to put a bullet We will never capitulate, never. We can perish, December 31st, 1944, Luxembourg. You sat there and listened to the hoarse voice Two or three times, He also got his words mixed up, but that was always the case It was significant that his throaty bellow that New Year's Eve. Stefan Heym, Adolf Hitler, last radio address January 30th, 1945. Thus, I now appeal to gird themselves with an even greater, until we can again, as before, put on the graves of the dead a wreath inscribed with the words: I, therefore, expect every German to make every sacrifice February 13th, 1945. The model of Linz is finally finished. The extensive model was now set up in one of the large, of the New Chancellery. When I led Adolf Hitler into this room, he stood for a long time just looking, as though overwhelmed I moved the spotlight to the position Now he was presented with the perspective in his retirement. Hermann Giesler, General Building Inspector Not a day went by when the government quarters When a bomb exploded nearby, the bunker lying in the groundwater The light began to flicker, so Hitler raised his voice That was close. Those bombs could've hit us. He was noticeably fearful Christa Schroeder. -Air-raid first aid kit. -Air-raid medicine chest. to the bunker under the Chancellery. Since then, he rarely sees daylight. Sometime in mid-March, Eva Braun arrived Hitler tried his best but she made it clear and no one would be able Rochus Misch, telephone operator April 20th, 1945, was always referred to as the date of the last photos and the delegation of the Hitler Youth. This is not true. They're from a different reception This took place on March 20th, 1945. Artur Axmann, leader of the Hitler Youth. -Right or wrong, my fatherland. April 11th, 1945. Suddenly, cries were heard. They grew louder and louder. We stumbled outside to discover the cause. Somebody shouted: Look, the gate! The crooked swastika had disappeared. Something white fluttered on the flagpole. The delightfully victorious minute, for which our German comrades was finally there. In the evening, Thomas Geve, a German Jew April 12th, 1945. It will not be pleasant listening. I propose to tell you of Buchenwald. We reached the main gate. The prisoners crowded up behind the wire. There surged around me Men and boys reached out to touch me. They were in rags Death had already marked many of them, but they were smiling with their eyes. Edward Murrow, On April 21st, our troops reached This success created favorable conditions Vasily Chuikov, general. That day, I saw Hitler only briefly. The boss could still not believe Rochus Misch. Zechlin, Mecklenburg. Around 11:50 p.m., Hitler calls. He gives a short lecture on the situation You will see, the Russians will suffer the biggest and bloodiest defeat before the gates of Berlin. Karl Koller, Chief of the General Staff April 22nd, 1945. This date marks the end The German Wehrmacht capitulated However, on April 22nd, a Sunday, Hitler capitulated. Rochus Misch. On April 22nd, we attended the status report I recognized immediately were hanging over the room. Wilhelm Keitel, Memoirs. I have already reached my decision. I won't leave Berlin again. I will defend the city till the end. Either I lead the fighting or I perish with my soldiers in Berlin for the symbol of the Reich. Adolf Hitler. During the status conference, Hitler had finally uttered and since then, repeated it to everybody who crept around the bunker -Nuremberg, city of the party rallies. Rochus Misch. Gertraud Traudl Junge. In the small anteroom, In a distant and commanding manner, Get changed at once. In one hour, an aircraft will come Everything is lost, hopelessly lost. Eva Braun walks up to Hitler, takes both of his hands, and says smilingly and consolingly, However, you know I will not be sent away. Hitler's eyes begin to light up and he does something not even his most trusted friends He kisses Eva Braun on the lips. The German army dissolved before our eyes. Winston Churchill. Gloom and doom began to spread Artur Axmann. The Fuhrer comes up to me, Have you rested a little, my child? I'd like to dictate something. Get the shorthand pad. Gertraud Traudl Junge. My private will and testament. As I did not consider that I could take the responsibility during the years of fighting, I have now decided, to take the girl who, entered the practically besieged city in order to share her destiny At her own desire, What I possess belongs, to the Party, Should the State also be destroyed, Signed, Berlin, Adolf Hitler. April 30th, 1945. I had close contact with Mohnke, Mohnke was often with the troops On April 29th, he reported to Hitler the Russians were a short distance away to the east in Lustgarten, to the south near Potsdamer Platz and to the west in Tiergarten. That was only a few hundred meters When Hitler asked him: He answered: Artur Axmann. On April 30th, 1945, around noon, Bormann told me Then Hitler said to me and that Fraeulein Braun The bodies were to be buried. He assigned me Otto Gunsche, SS adjutant to Hitler. My political testament. I die with a happy heart in the face of the immeasurable deeds of our soldiers at the front, the achievements of our farmers and the efforts, unique in history, Above all, I oblige the leaders to scrupulously observe the race laws to the poisoner of all peoples, Issued in Berlin, Adolf Hitler. There cannot be the slightest doubt in the Fuhrerbunker on April 30th, 1945, with his own hand, Cause of death, December 8th, 1956. Valet Heinz Linge reports He says he noted this time from a grandfather clock Adjutant Otto Gunsche cites He said he'd looked at his watch. It was not disloyalty, but rather his suicide He and his organization and thus it ended with him. This man, who rose out of nothing, had offered himself to Germany at a time when it was longing He formulated a doctrine based on a mixture of fascism The totalitarian system allowed him The mechanization of the military gave him the trump cards All of this led to repression, and that in turn led to these crimes. Charles de Gaulle, memoirs.