Soft as fluff with a crispy crust! Air curd balls! Quick donuts from cottage cheese! If subtitles bother you, turn them off! Hello! I'm with you Dina and the Recipe Collection channel! Friends, do not know how to diversify the menu of boring breakfasts or what to serve as a snack? I offer for someone a new, but for someone a well-forgotten recipe! Today we cook fast curd donuts or as they are also called curd balls. They are prepared so easily and simply that in half an hour on your table there will be a mountain of very tasty and tender donuts - soft inside and crispy outside! So let's get started! We spread 400 g of cottage cheese in a bowl, the fat content does not matter, add 2 large or 3 small eggs, Pour 1/2 tsp. salt, 5 g of soda is 1 tsp flush, a pinch of vanillin or a teaspoon of vanilla sugar and 2 tbsp. regular sugar and if desired, you can add the zest of lemon or orange. We mix the mass well, add 200-220 g of sifted flour and knead this rather sticky, but not liquid dough. If you have coarse-grained cottage cheese, it is advisable to wipe it through a sieve or punch it with a submersible blender and if pasty like mine, then you don't need to do anything with it. Depending on the moisture content in the curd, you may need a little more flour, be guided by the consistency of the test - it should not be liquid, but not too hard. Sprinkle the working surface with flour, spread all the dough and mix it lightly so that it is convenient to work with it. Cut a small sausage from it, roll it up and cut into pieces the size of a walnut, but not larger, because when frying, they will increase. We roll up smooth balls and lay them on a dusted with flour surface. If you plan to make donuts with a "surprise", make a small dough cake, put the filling inside, carefully pinch the edges and roll the ball. As a filling, you can use pitted cherries or cherries, thick jam, a piece of chocolate or marmalade. We immediately prepare all the balls, because they are fried very quickly and you will not have time to do the test. We set a narrow thick-walled pan or pan on the stove, pour refined vegetable oil and let it heat, but do not heat it up much. There should be enough oil in the bowl so that the balls float and do not touch the bottom. We check the readiness of the butter by pouring a pinch of flour into it - if the flour hissed, you can fry the donuts. Fry the curd balls in small portions over medium heat until golden brown. Turn them over periodically for more even frying. If the fire is weak, then the donuts will fry for a long time and absorb a lot of oil, and if very strong, the crust will quickly brown, and inside the dough will remain moist - on medium heat, frying donuts of this size usually takes 4-5 minutes. We lay the finished curd balls on a paper towel folded in two layers to absorb excess oil. Here we have such a mountain of fragrant cottage cheese balls! Donuts are beautiful, smooth, tender, very soft inside with a crispy crust on the outside! You can serve such an airy delicacy with honey, jam, condensed milk, sour cream, sweet fruit sauces, chocolate icing or just sprinkled with powdered sugar! If you are not friends with yeast dough or are afraid to cook real donuts, then this recipe is for you! And for those who are interested in how I cook donuts on a yeast test, I'll leave a link to the video in the description. I recommend to cook and try! If you like this recipe - like it! Thank you for watching my videos, rating and sharing them with your friends! Do not forget to subscribe to the Recipes Collection YouTube channel and click on the bell to receive notifications of new videos. I have on the channel other recipes for various pastries, both sweet and savory, look if you are interested! All links on the screen and in the description. Dina was with you.