I hear that shot, I'm on the ground, I don't understand that I am hurt at that time. That's when I'm going raise your head and I look to my left and that I see my intestines which litter the ground, that I understand that this shot was for me. In my head it was as a matter of course that I was going to die I can't do anything, I can not move. My body is paralyzed. I was very close to death every second. I start looking my kalashnikov to finish me off, to commit suicide. And I say to myself, well, there you go, it's my turn, It's up to me to die. My name is Maxime and a rocket went through my body. In 2023, I live in Belgium, I am 26 years old. I am an educator for MENA : foreign minors unaccompanied. The war begins in Ukraine in February 2022. My contract has ended in February 2023 and so I have directly took the measurements that it was necessary to be able to leave, join the conflict in Ukraine. I warned my family a few days before leaving. I went to see her one last time before my departure, I remember that my mother made me a hug, and I even believe that there is tears on his side. I know that potentially this is the last time that I see her. I'm taking the plane, I'm leaving until Krakow by plane. From Krakow, So I have took a 7am train to arrive as close as possible from the Ukrainian border. So I'm spending this border on foot. And so while walking, a soldier who ran after me after to ask me if i wanted to go to the International Legion. And that's how it is that my journey in Ukraine will begin. After training, I'm going to Kharkiv, It is a mined area, a trapped area. We heard Russian tanks who pass a few meters from us. There are always risks when we move because we are often exposed to drones, exposed to artillery... We must start from the principle that every second, they are trying to kill us. I will join my group leader who is in the fighting hole the rightmost, there was maybe about forty meters. And so I don't know in what order It's done because it's okay so fast. I just know that I hear this shot, I'm on the ground, I am not felt fall to the ground. I know that I am on the ground. In any case, I don't understand that I am hurt at that time. That's when I'm going raise your head and I look to my left and that I see my intestines which litter the ground, that I understand that this shot was for me. And so there, I just remember that I see that he there is a ukrainian in front of me who is in the forest. And so I ask help to this person there who tells me no. He makes me a nod to tell me no. In my head, it was like a no-brainer that I was going to die. And so as a species of appeasement that is coming. And I say to myself, well, there you go, it's my turn, It's up to me to die. So I start looking my shoulder weapon, my kalashnikov to finish me off, to commit suicide with my weapon and luckily, I can't find it. I don't know if she were fell below me, if she had stolen during impact or I don't know at all. I don't remember where was this weapon. I feel a little lonely at that time. I don't know what to do, I can't do anything, I can not move, My body is paralyzed, I was very close to death every second. Luckily, I asked: "Help me, help me" and my comrades arrive very quickly. I already ask them to finish me off themselves to help me, to help me leave, to not be a burden for them. They tell me no. I have no choice, at that time, I have to survive. And then they take the injury in charge. They put my intestines in a garbage bag, we put the garbage bag down about me and me I was holding the bag. But I remember that I had this mass on my belly and that I felt even though there was a little bit of weight anyway, a few kilos. They give me a painkiller by mouth. They put me on a stretcher and then a stretcher begins more than 1h30, under 37 degrees. We had no more water since 24 hours. The refueling had not been done night, as agreed. The stretcher lasted 1 hour and a half. We are arriving at the drop-off point where a vehicle is supposed to come get me back. I remember that they put me on the ground and then I see my comrades who put themselves in shell holes. So when the shells explode, it makes craters. And I had again this lucidity at that time to ask Ivan, my comrade. I told him to put me in the hole because I was going make me fart. A few minutes later, there are shells who have fallen exactly where i was and so I should have died a second time that day. This shell that fell, in any case, these shells which fell, was supposed to kill me. And so the vehicle arrived very quickly too afterwards. When the vehicle door bends down, we arrive in a war hospital which is in the middle of the forest, which is hidden. Medical teams decide to fall into a coma. My condition was not not stable enough. I was in the coma, I think, seven days. I am woken up from my coma. I am in this room resuscitation, intubated by the throat with catheters a little everywhere, wrists tied, ankles tied. My bowels were restored in the abdomen. So we say that it was put to the skin, it was sewn and it ended in a pocket. I had so prepared, psychologically speaking, to be hurt, to die or anything that the injury was so much become secondary for me. I woke up, I saw both pockets, I saw my legs which no longer worked. And I didn't react in fact, hardly reacted. The first thing I have asked, it is to the surgeon to leave me take a wheelchair to return to fight. I am returned to France in ambulance, 26 hours of ambulance, with half body open and legs paralyzed etc. It was a big mess. It never has was a doubt for me that my commitment was going to cost me dearly. There are lots of things which are different. I can't even do it anymore my shoelaces all by myself I can't get up in bed all alone or else I have to be able to do seesaws with my legs etc. I can't take things in height, I can't take things on the ground... In short, everything is different. I can't run, I can't go up too many steps either. I don't regret absolutely nothing, I am proud and happy of what I have done. For me it is a sacrifice which makes sense. And I find that what I did, In any case to give meaning to my injury and death that I could have had if that had been the case. The injury, if I had to take it back, I would do it all again.