(upbeat music) - [Narrator] And we're back with another episode of &quot;Before You Buy&quot; that show where we give you and our first impressions of And today we're talking about It's been a long time coming for this one, both the making of this So sorry for the delay. We didn't get a review copy, we didn't get it early, It happens. So I bought this and I played a ton from the So here are just some first impressions. You've probably seen headlines or comments or reviews about this one already. It is a big topic of conversation. I'm tuning that out and just trying to see if it was worth the wait. You know, is BioWare My answer really isn't as sensationalist. Ultimately so far after 10 plus hours in, I'm happy to say it's not an &quot;Andromeda&quot; or &quot;Anthem&quot; level disaster or anything like that. &quot;Veilguard&quot; is a solid game, but for me it's just missing You know, it's got cool environments, big cinematic storytelling and but it still feels like or safe, to me. It's very simple, from an RPG standpoint, it's way more action RPG and I think that's gonna feeling a little unsatisfied. It's worth noting my perspective though, where I'm coming from. So most of my experience I love that game. I know we're like years and I have played some &quot;Inquisition&quot; and this feels like way more Either way I'm just here to lay and the mechanics and stuff, what I think works and and then it's up to you So without any spoilers of course the basic story set up is this. There's basically this A rift is opened and these and are making Thedus a worse place with blight and corruption. It quickly gets way more and I'm kind of butchering but basically it's up and some uneasy alliances and save the world. You create a new character nicknamed Rook and in my experience, the character creator was pretty robust and I was actually basically able to make link from Zelda and I was pretty happy He looks pretty cool. The male voice actor for Rook Weirdly enough though who is just slotted in with some recurring and from what I've seen so far, this game is a fairly lighthearted romp. Yes, the fate of the world is at stake and the darkspawn are pretty but characters are just and the pace isn't always super urgent. There are three main classes along with some character to some dialogue here and there. But the classes are I went rogue. Combat is real time and hack and slashy you have heavy attacks, light attacks, a dodge and if you press it ranged attacks and a parry button. From there you have specialized that are based on cool downs with a face button press as and eventually some rune All special attacks are and interesting. Some are ranged, some are or stack debuffs or and the enemies have shields by range sometimes as you can mess with that to these cool finishing move attacks. So your party members are pretty basic. You don't have to worry You can manage who they attack, but you know on auto they seem Their abilities are mapped as well, but like I found it pretty easy to just bring up the radial It works pretty good. And then when you're using all that stuff, the allies seem genuinely helpful, if a little overly chatty in battle, the biggest thing you can and detonator system. So certain attacks are They essentially set up an by another ally's special attack that is the corresponding So time these right and make in battle to cause way more It makes for a decent I found combat pretty a bit repetitive feeling after a while, once I got my preferred abilities and tactics really locked in. But still it's very active. Hits are responsive, the feedback is good, the onscreen effects are and a lot of the combat animations and movement animations My character does like a round and then does a big while one of my allies on the corner of the screen is freezing an enemy. In action it can be pretty if not always very deep. As you progress, you level up, and earn points that you The skill tree is a pretty lengthy one with like a lot of different nodes. Even if some of the nodes you know, unlock 10% resistance or 3% extra attack power, But in between those are And there are also a for each class too. So say if you're a rogue who you can lean into that or the dualist specialization or if you're more ranged you So it's all a lot of stuff and it does it all in a unsurprising way. The most intensely engaging but pretty fun at least. What I did enjoy a lot was some of the bigger enemy encounters and the game feels much, much stronger when it's challenging. So consider your difficulty choice wisely and when you're going it can be simplistic and often formulaic, you know, a left turn and there's a hidden chest or a collect this thing and then walk back over here. Very standard stuff. But what I did enjoy like the cities and those types of regions just look really unique Like some of those wow factor to 'em. I was like, damn that's a I like discovering this stuff and I found myself naturally exploring some of them just for the sake of it. Sometimes you'll find some side stuff or something to read or loot. Unfortunately the loot has There are good quality of as you pick up loot you automatically get a comparison screen and an easy equip, but I just haven't seen a I've been getting by just deeply compelled to intended to just craft At the very least, some of the armor looks very cool and there's also transmog, You're managing some of this a kind of mystical home base where you can check your gear, talk to allies and get You also have like your that you can buy trinkets and then customize your room a little bit. Then you can also fast for quests here and also wander around and explore some little secrets. It's a just a good hangout location and yes, you can build So it is a BioWare game in my eyes there. It also looks pretty good, but I like the more stylized, slightly cartoonish art style here. Mostly because I like the and my character looked pretty badass. The game has a lot of bold a bit of a dreamlike fantasy And I think it helps it Like I said, it's not for everyone, but hey, at least it performs well. The game feels very polished to me, which is very refreshing honestly, I haven't really encountered Maybe one tiny visual one, It's pretty impressive. There's performance and which is where I played, and performance mode does where it does look a but at the very least the Where the game is faltered the action RPG stuff, if it's not the most complex, but it's the RPG decisions that I didn't feel really meaningful differences and impacts. First of all, Rook is a but still kind of locked That's fine, but the game does give you you know, normal or kind of Choices are great, I'm happy to have them, but in my experience, most of Like choose the gruff to just ask a character to And characters just kind of shrug off the different ways you've responded. It doesn't really seem like a lot of those like dialogue choices, moment to moment are but some set dressing. Again, first impressions, it could very well be or later in the game. But yeah, the conversation stuff for me left quite a bit to be desired. Along with that, I've where the game presents me with one of those big binary choices and the ones I got weren't very exciting. So it's this stuff that I think might disappoint some people. I don't feel like I'm like in a good RPG fashion, something I've kind of come one way or another. The returning characters but the new characters are hit and miss. Some are interesting, some aren't. I think some of it comes It's very current day and I don't need every fantasy that talk all old time-y. But here I found a lot of and some emotional beats that Again, I wasn't like the biggest &quot;Dragon Age Inquisition&quot; player, so maybe that's my bias. So with all that being said, &quot;Dragon Age&quot; feels competently made, not a glitchy mess and reasonably fun. It also feels a bit safe, and a little bit cheesy. Those are my biggest marks against it. So that's a matter of taste I really can't quite pin down how &quot;Dragon Age&quot; fans are because as much as I love BioWare, &quot;Dragon Age&quot; was never I was, I was more of a So, so far I'm putting You know, it takes some steps away from that hardcore RPG stuff that but otherwise it is a fairly solid game. It just feels a bit safe and no, nobody paid me to say this. At the very least, I am just glad BioWare made a game that isn't a total disaster. But hey, that's a &quot;Before You Buy,&quot; you know how this goes by now. I'll give you some pros, some cons, and some personal opinion. And now I want to hear Again, this is only our so chances are if you are playing it, you have first impressions as well. So let us know in the comments. If you're not into the game, chances are you're probably and we'd love to hear from you either way. However you feel about let us know in the comments. If you like this video, every single day, so click Thank you. But as always, thanks for watching, and we'll see you guys next time. - [Varric] She's gonna help us find Solas. Nav, meet Rook. Harding and I found him a while back. Our leader's an expert on trouble. - [Nav] Rook like the chess piece? - [Varric] One of the strongest