Welcome back to the second video in what we're missed the first video, it was about the low link above. In this video, I'm going to explaining how to handle them. I'll acoustic and psychoacoustic principles, video. I'm going to be using some Nectar, head to the description to download free trials Where would we be without the mids? It mids make up the identity of any Sound Source. and let's see if you can identify the instrument Play. We couldn't wait another day, so those with which. But I bet for some of you out there, it was &quot;The music is in the mids.&quot; This is you have the fundamental frequency and the which give identity to the Sound Source, allowing it is they're hearing. When we take away those in a very extreme fashion, or if competing it becomes difficult for The Listener to lacks definition and separation. So, if it isn't get you to care about mid frequencies as much let me lay out my case with some basic facts. Of balance of a track, the mids come through which makes up the majority of listening contain the fundamental frequencies and and more. Don't believe me? Bandpass scooping out the very lows and the very highs, omit the mids and leave in the lows and A beautifully mixed mid-range is the frequencies. A mix with patches in this area, can crumble the track. And finally, mid-range contribute to the presence and definition of to treat these elements with your tools Hopefully, I've laid out the case for why you into the main parts of this video, let's define where the mids are and which instruments tend in the first video, we determined that the lows hearing. So, where do those mids come in? Well, that mixing and mastering engineers refer to: low end, so from 250 to 2K, and the high mids, or lows in the video we covered last time, many, if it a challenge to have everything beautifully where you've got 20 plus people, and you have to from the little old ladies to the super tall So now that we have an understanding of where the let's talk specifically about how we If you watched the previous video we did on we're particularly sensitive to frequencies the equal loudness curve image again, you'll see starting at the lower end of This territory can sometimes contain the as well as low-order harmonics that make when I say &quot;timbre,&quot; I'm referring to the Timbre is critical in helping you understand a kazoo. If we can't make out the harmonics, fundamental frequency, we have a really hard From around 2K to 6K is where we find the high interest and sensitivity to us humans. Information The content in this range is said to be crucial to So, if we revisit our &quot;what's louder&quot; example from tone and the 2.5-kilohertz tone. The 2.5-kilohertz therefore, it gets a higher value. Remember, we full scale value. Even though it played back at the reason we're so sensitive to this is highly attuned to perceiving sounds due to the resonant properties of the ear You might notice that really important sounds in the wail of an ambulance siren, the cry of a These examples demonstrate why mid-range matters. down everything in that 250 to 6K range? Well, exposure to high levels of mid-range frequencies for some people. This is especially true if lacks proper balance across the entire frequency crucial role in the intelligibility and clarity of musical instruments. So, if you turn that stuff The other risk of turning mid-range frequencies listener's ability to localize mid-range sources. information, our ears can more accurately pinpoint summarize before we move to the next section. which are crucial for understanding the source and 250 to 2K and upper 2K to 6K regions, impacting Excessive mid-range exposure can lead to important. Mid-range frequencies contribute to localization. Reducing mid-range excessively Now that we understand a little more about how room and speakers play in affecting how you hear solid mid-range representation, you might remember I mentioned that those Auratone cubes for your low-end needs. However, you know what? I'm not saying go out and buy some cubes or they're a pretty great option if you're interested Or at least, they're great for offering a enough to own two sets of monitors--one pair that that spotlights the mids, like the cubes or Getting your hands on some cubes, unlike the NS10s whose materials leading Yamaha to discontinue them a little those eager to take the plunge for some NS10s or meaning they don't have an amplifier built into that an active version of the cubes exists. But get that passive version. You'll need an extra Now, I cannot overstate the importance of to the cubes. This is because the overall sound external amplifier. The interaction between where the amplifier plays a crucial role like transient response, the low-end frequency do a little research in the forums. loudspeaker pairing. Rings to make sure If you're looking for a good single set of you might be wondering, should I go for a two-way use multiple drivers to ensure that each driver in reproducing. A crossover is used to split the typically around 2K for a two-way loudspeaker. there's always some overlapping bandwidth where introducing certain phase issues Can a two-way speaker accurately represent system with a dedicated cone, sometimes with the animal theme? Olive, so I'm here are totally capable of faithfully reproducing you don't need to break the bank If you do want to go for a three-way design, smart design and integration to optimize great and accurate phase coherence. I'm two-way design will often perform better design. If you intend to level up to they'll most certainly come at a higher Alright, that was a lot. So, let's summarize again are suitable for mid-range representation and pairing an amplifier to a passive speaker, the sound characteristics. Two-way monitors obviating the need for a three-way Three-way systems minimize distortion Now, just as we mentioned in the earlier video, great monitors are useless without great room it interacts with the room, creating room modes you need materials that absorb and diffuse sound video, direct sound is accompanied by these resulting in a blending effect. These arrive at a specific phase relationship to the high frequencies make them more susceptible Now, within the initial 40 milliseconds, early which is characterized by boosts and/or response. Additionally, the delayed arrival of kind of smearing of this stereo image. Common side walls, and even the ceiling. You've of these reflections in your own space or sound is cranked and it's bouncing off the walls you feel like you're soaked in noise, which is creating the feeling of being at a concert or a It's for this reason that mix engineers often reduce the influence of the room entirely audio as possible. When you listen at quiet room modes, or any kind of cone filtering music. For those who like to listen loud to suppress sound reflections. Impact since don't need to be too deep. Usually, around 50 For those interested in using headphones to avoid consumer headphones as they tend which leads to poor decision-making during the studio-quality wired headphones is ideal, as And I say wired because, at the time of this support lossless audio transmission, some important audio information for the sake of of studio-grade headphones, with or without an and I'd recommend that you don't just buy whatever studio monitors, auditioning multiple sets of So bring a device that plays high-fidelity familiar mixes to carefully evaluate the sound as Additionally, it's worth noting that room profile of loudspeakers and headphones, allowing interests you, that kind of software is totally require proper room treatment to address sound can be treated using materials that absorb and filtering, stereo image smearing, and can be and ceiling. Loud listening can be influenced by impact. Studio-quality headphones are preferable headphones that alter the sound. Auditioning monitors in stores, using high-fidelity audio and can impact loudspeakers and headphones, providing So now that we've covered how our ears perceive monitors and then translated into a room, the digital environment. While there are many ways such as compression, distortion, and more, control is an equalizer. An equalizer is a tool of different mix elements. The key to deploying frequency characteristics, especially the mids, As a reminder, the low mids encompass roughly instruments and a big part of their timbre. The this range as linked to loudness, definition, important to note that when you're using EQ, you're making moves in the first place. Do edgy, round, clear, muddy? Do you want to take else? Are you trying to impart a vibe or a getting there requires boosting and/or cutting boosting, that will offer you the best results - So, what do I mean by &quot;sound better&quot;? Engineers carve those away to make the track sound more the moves I'll soon suggest won't be applicable to give you ideas for how to manipulate about the role this frequency range plays in the game is going to be gentle reduction and I mean it. Remember, music is in the mids. the tracks and overall mix feeling brittle Let's showcase a few common instruments and talk content. A common attribute of acoustic guitars especially in the low mids. In commercial those same mids I just mentioned, is often rolled a rhythmic, textured role. However, in intimate the low mids are still sheared, though not as own that territory. Whatever the case may be, I can choose a node in the low-mid region to bring more attention to the very low end of the thus refining the guitar and bringing clarity So it's important to take into account what and rumble of the guitar. We've spotlit the as well as a sparkle at the very top end around right? This is what using an EQ for definition is better than they did before. If you want to get a try boosting the upper mids from anywhere to one And I should mention, it's really important but also in the context of the entire mix, and or helping the overall mix. In the mixing world, and sculpt into something that sounds better. notorious to control, but you'll need to get a muddiness (think 100 to 600 Hertz) and honkiness critical to control and almost always a great singer matters very little here as these areas are mic. In sibilance, those pesky sounds often so a de-esser, which is essentially a multi-band better suited than any EQ for this challenge. attenuation to those regions to see if we can't Another key area for the mid-range is range. This is a really magical spectral can make the singer sound like they're stepping Let's perform some moves and see if we can So far, we've EQ'd individual instruments, but the same time? As a general rule, it's element that's masking them. When multiple distinguishing one from another becomes elements or specific notes. So, let's now revisit work that we already did, but just try to achieve That's how to negotiate masking issues between two across an entire mix for great tonal balance? of the tonal balance of your entire session, just as I mentioned in the previous video. how healthy the distribution of energy is from to put this in perspective, our individual street view in Google Maps, and Tonal Balance so you can really see what's happening in a is hard to hide from the listener, even if they're Now, one of the contributing factors to fully cooked is when the bass is way too heavy or piercing highs is what Tonal Balance Control scenario, the mix engineers over-emphasize from the low mids to the upper mids all the way we can help to construct this bridge by Tonal Balance Control, and then using tools just are overlapping in areas that they shouldn't material - a kind of creative connective tissue Now, knowing just where the gaps in the pathway experience and practice, but calling up the Balance Control, look for areas where there where energy is lacking or missing altogether, to masking issues more than instruments particular region. Consider using an EQ to you can't add what's not already there with an enhancers like saturation or distortion to Ideally, the lows should be under control The bridge from the lows to the highs using the instruments together into something cohesive or this, and more like this. And the key to control of that mid-range. Finally, if the mids sometimes bringing them up and down at the answer. Sometimes, to uncover them, you simply EQ principle we employed on individual tracks we can reveal and make something sound better. perk up and be heard, which can influence Let's summarize one more time. An equalizer frequencies in the digital environment. characteristics, especially in the mids, The low mids (250 to 2K) consist of fundamental of instruments. The high mids (2K to with loudness impact, definition, Removing boominess and muddiness in the to instruments like acoustic guitars, Masking issues can occur when multiple but you can mitigate this by removing unnecessary the bridge from the lows to the low mids by and solving masking issues is also going And there you have it. In this exploration of the shaping instrument identity and presence in a the mids, the influence of monitors and room impact of EQ in controlling these frequencies. clarity and definition, ultimately improving the that critical mid-range bridge, which can help In the next and final part of the the world of high-frequency content. tips to help you craft exceptional