Are solar panels on your home worth it? I've shared my experiences living with solar Including the pros and cons of it. I just moved achieving net zero energy, which means more solar. years. Both with the same solar installer, in the did I go about sizing my solar panel system actually lived here? And what challenges did we Hopefully you'll find something to take away from I'm Matt Ferrell ... welcome to Undecided. This video is brought to you by Before getting into all the details on my new point: there's no one-size-fits-all answer when lay out your personal goals before wading family's goals were (in no particular order): fossil fuels from our electricity sources. We Security: Gaining some energy independence for Financial: We can save money on ongoing costs for our home. This is our If you want to see the details on my old I'll put links in the description. Overall, we 55-60%. That equated to about $1,500 a year panel array was actually a nice selling So what about our new house? It's much easier net zero energy home if you're actually living I was able to learn a lot from the Span smart the circuit data from Span to see how much we TVs, EV charging, and other things that I wasn't sure about the energy needs water heater, and appliances. It was For all of this I had to rely on the Energy and costs. For our HVAC and hot water I relied on engineer put together for us. I actually had a to share it, but I've completely lost it. At the end of the day, I had a rough monthly net zero energy production over the course of a that was never my goal. I could go on a tangent grid tied energy management solutions, like Being a mini electricity generator for the dead of winter my solar production will be summer I'll be producing more energy than I need. so it will (in theory) even out over the The end result ... we went with 43 REC Alpha which means a total system size of 17.2 kW. For for a total of 9.49 kW and roughly 7,000 kWh/year. what the old one was capable of, but unlike the better angle of the panels and less shading means panel. We have several large roof areas that face a small number of panels on the front of the of the last light in the afternoon and evening. kWh/year (17,998 kWh to be exact). Much better out means about 1,500 kWh/month. In our old My energy use estimates for our new place put curious to see how accurate, or inaccurate I was as this plays out. Based on our first month Since this is our forever home we went with and outlast the solar panels. Best part is the metal roof to install the panels. Unless accidentally drives a screw through your brand And speaking of not getting screwed, there's of the control around your online privacy. And I've mentioned this before, but I signed up for a I did I saw a major increase in the number companies I've never heard of. When that happens brand new roof. That happened because that company you've experienced it too. Incogi can help with brokers delete our information, but it takes a gave them the legal right to work on my behalf, updates on your account for which data brokers have complied. It couldn't be easier. I've me for quite a while now and I'm very happy with want to take back some of the control around give Icogni a try. The first 100 people to get 60% off of Incogni. Thanks to Incogni and back to getting screwed ... well ... why Solar installers use special clamps to attach These clamps are very easy to move, remove, intrusion points the solar installers had solar panels are like peanut butter and jelly. solar installation team spotted when they went up but someone from the team building the but it did cause some delays with the solar area until the repair was done. And that power lines from the panels wrapped around Good times. The solar crew took it But that's just the panels. Each panel has The microinverter changes DC electricity to AC it goes to a battery and into the house. The because of the peanut butter and battery system. I don't know why I have When I finally get the batteries installed, the a blackout. Basically, a battery can only take so continuous power. For instance a Tesla Powerwall which means in theory that you can't push more solar panels are generating 20 kW of electricity, the excess power can't be used or sent to the the system's controller turns the solar panel of power going into the battery. In a blackout lot of potential power. Well, the Enphase system hit a load that can be used by the house and Their system can even be configured in a similar which is HUGE! If the power goes out and panel array will shut off for the safety of the system will disconnect from the grid as normal It dials back the number of individual panels draw in the house. It's really slick. Hopefully affiliated with them in any way. I'm just very So what about the cost of the system? which yes ... is pricey. The cost of installing your area. You can pop your eyes back in your but I financed the install through Atmos full transparency. They had a great interest rate likely be paying that loan off very quickly to pay off their loans within 6-7 years, which I this time too. It also didn't hurt that Atmos so customers who bank there are helping to closed-loop, completely climate-positive banking in the description if you're interested. The Federal solar tax credit is 30%, which this year by $16,600. This knocks the out of that by around year 7, we'll hit net positive benefits of production. But there's also be able to take advantage of to knock We're also getting batteries installed but I'll be getting into the details of that in I qualify for. For example, my solar panels in Massachusetts. REC stands for Renewable Energy to a Solar Renewable Energy Credit (SREC). That's but different. Right now the program pays If I produce the estimated 18,000 kWh a year, year. The credits are sold at market rates, to estimate. For back of the napkin math, I'm The battery system I'm getting installed Solutions virtual power plant program, much like my battery storage to help with peak shaving Then at the end of the year they pay you for I'll link in the description and will go into But no project is perfect or goes according surprise anyone, but I'm not talking about west when it comes to solar panel regulations of regulations in the industry, causing a crazy unfortunately large number of shady companies was surprised by the local regulations in my town experience elsewhere in Massachusetts, but every with a handful of panels left to put up, when they the town inspector could see all the junction the panels went up. Some towns do that, some a bunch of panels, get the rough-in inspection, final inspection after that. The solar team were requirements vary so much between towns. The help installers streamline the process, speed So at the end of the day, I think I did a pretty energy needs will be, but the jury is still a betting pool to see who comes closest. Would design of the system, but I would have made some talked about this in my "Net Zero Regrets" issues between the different teams working on conduit runs preinstalled in the attic and ever showed up. But because of the communications forward without doing any of that work. The so in the end it did kinda all work out, No matter how close I get to my net zero of energy each year. This will save me a lot goals I brought up at the beginning. But But if you are interested in solar, it can be as well as how much your house will be able to "Achieve Energy Security With Solar" guide! It you don't know. I've been there. I want you to your home and personal goals. My guide helps you also suggests suitable equipment for your house This will even help you decide if solar actually all of the steps I used when starting to figure buy the guide, you'll get any updates I make update about home batteries for it. And if you in time for filing next year's taxes, it's but I'm a partner of EnergySage. It's a great get quotes right in your online portal, and and reviews. It's a completely free service and I liked them so much I used them twice! I'll guide in the description if you want to learn So do you think I'll hit my net zero energy comments and let me know. And be sure to where we'll be discussing some of your who get ad free versions of every