I stood on the city tower and thanked this man. What's going on? What's going on? Come here again. You stinky beggar has no eyes. The spring flower girl from Baihualou smells so good. Come on, let me kiss a good stinky beggar. You wait for me. Wait, I'm waiting for you. You beggar wants to eat roast chicken. Do you have money? This advantage is not so easy to take advantage of. Just give it to his brothers. Come on, stop chasing my roast chicken . Don't run away from me. Stop, brother, are you okay? Come after me. Stop. Don't run. Don't let him run. You go to Baihualou. Stop, don't run. Run away. Stop, stop. Don't run away from me. Hurry up. Come on, come on. Come on. , a good ball is coming from here, pass it quickly, waiter , good water refill. Shandong heroes are famous and popular. The bamboo boards rattle in all directions. The story is told by the jingle bell. The man said it, old man, you said it. What? Don't be anxious. Listen to me slowly. Guest officer, where did your water go? It's from the Kwantung Army. Where does the Kwantung Army come from? It's across the sea to the east. The Japanese live in the Japanese barbarians. The uncivilized people of Jiaodong burned, killed, plundered and snatched wives. Many people in Jiaodong suffered hardships and were bullied. At this time, reinforcements came to the Eighth Route Armed Forces to protect the local area. The martial arts from all directions responded to the heroic heroes. The Chinese people gathered together to awaken the lions. Who dared to bully the devils and traitors all trembled in Japan? The Emperor is about to be beheaded. What's going on? This is our Shenzhou Peace. We have a date. Our Shenzhou Peace has a date. The Eighth Route Army 's contribution is number one. You can take it. I said, Huang Mingfeng, Su Chuqiao is so amazing that bullets can't even hit them . I'm telling you, the little devils are so scared that they wet their pants when they hear their names. But I heard that they were killed by the Japanese. Who said it? It's nonsense to say that these heroes are all peerless masters. The little devils can kill them. Come on, Taijun, please surround me. Taijun, get up here, you, get out of the way. What are you going to do? Taijun, we are all good people. You storytellers spread rumors, talk nonsense, and insult the imperial army. How dare you say that? All good people, please listen to me. The imperial army said that anyone who spreads rumors will be arrested as a traitor. Don't talk nonsense to them. They will all be taken away. The anti-Japanese heroes have made our reputation famous. We, the children of Jiaodong, are not to be outdone. The drunkards show up. This town is going to be your turn today. Boss, bastard, bastard, why do you keep following me? Girl, girl, don't go, don't go. I know you are a good person when I look at you. I just want to drink. Look at me. The bottle of wine is empty. I'm addicted to alcohol and I have no money. Give me a sip of this wine. If it doesn't work, take a sip. Old man, I am sixty-three years old and can't lift my shoulders. I can't lift my hands, so I have developed this thin mouth. Today's storyteller, I am not seeking fame or profit, just to tell the Japanese a few words. We Chinese people cannot bear the shame and come to kill the enemy. Why should we be afraid of death? Why should we be afraid of good bastard storytellers? You are impatient with life. You bastard kills people. Kill people. You kill people. Why can't you go? Can't you go over now? Wife, I won't drink anymore. Just let me go this time. Old man, old man, wake up. Godfather, godfather, godfather, old man, godfather, old man, wake up. Godfather, wake up, why are you leaving? Godfather, come in, please come in and say hello to Taijun. I will come to see you in two days. I miss you so much. Come in quickly. Isn't this coming? Come on, let's go up and go . Go back and come back in a few days. Stop, you guys don't even look at where this is. Is this where you came from? Isn't this the Baihua Building? This is where you guys came from. Yes, this is the place where you come. Aren't you that stinky beggar during the day? You kid, you came to your door yourself. Brother, I kissed Miss Chunhua during the day. No, I want to come and have a good and intimate relationship with her. You guys who look down on others, get out of the way of this man. Look, it's a real person without showing his face. Take it, bring me two bottles of good wine. Master, please let me introduce you to some new girls. I'm greeting you. Why haven't you come recently? I'm not here. Is this a punishment for you? Do you want to drink or kiss me? The good wine you want is Miss Chunhua. Miss Chunhua will be next door in a moment. Come over and tell her to come quickly. Master is still impatient. Come on, don't waste it and kill people. Oh no , let people It's settled . Stop, you've finished killing people and you want me to wipe your ass for you. You're so uninterested. Don't leave. Brother, you owe me another favor. I don't ask for much. Just bring me some good wine. Brother, my good wine. Where are you, man? You owe me such a big favor all night. You don't even want to bring me a bottle of good wine. I'm so stingy that I drank my own wine from Baihualou. It tastes really bad. Who did I think it was? It turns out to be a Japanese girl. We, one, two, three, and four, also brought four helpers. They look pretty good. They are even prettier than the Chunhua girl from Baihualou. Why don't you come over and let me pamper you well? I'll tell you, I'm not. Killing the famous drunkard Lan Rujian for me is really unpleasant. No need to sharpen your sword in the battle. Wait, let me take another drink. You four guys are so bad, they are just trash. Do you know who my ancestor is? Su Qier, I The master said you can't hit women. I won't hit women, but the invaders must be driven out of China. Brother, brother, I said you came too late. Where is my wine? I said your beads are poisonous. Who is that man in black? He actually uses this kind of wine. It's impossible to use inferior weapons. I saw Liu Tiansheng die with my own eyes. Could it be a banshee? She's not dead yet. It must be her. I know who you are. I know who you are. Aren't you the goddaughter of that storyteller? But there's one thing I can't figure out. Understand how you know how to use that embroidery needle. It should be Liu Tiansheng and Liu Daxia's unique skill. What's your name? Don't follow me. If you don't tell me your name, where can I find you? You still owe me a good drink. Wine, bring it to me. I saved your life, so I need to know your name. Otherwise, how can I repay your life-saving grace? Get out of the way, otherwise don't blame me for being rude to you. If I don't let you, if you don't let me, I won't let you. You are a banshee, Su Chuqiao. I just said that. The little devil said that you all died in Shanxi. People don't believe it, and I don't believe it either. Besides, those two blows from the female devil yesterday couldn't cure you at all. You mean to say that I am a banshee, Su Chuqiao? You mean I'm the banshee Su Chuqiao, right. I told you to stop pretending. Although you only used three successes in that slap just now, if I hadn't been able to hide quickly, you would have saved me last night in vain. Apart from the banshee Su Chuqiao, there is absolutely no other person who can practice the bone-transforming cotton palm to this level. Su Nuxia, Su Nuxia, fellow villagers, I am announcing something that happened last night. Two people killed the Imperial Army's abdominal commander. If anyone finds out, report it immediately. The Imperial Army will reward you with ten yuan. Do you understand? Do you understand? But ten yuan, why are you standing there? You are embarrassing yourself as soon as you come out. Why don't you hurry up? Get in the way, you scared the military master. Military master, I'm sorry, stop, go quickly, stop that woman, surround her, and walk away, my dear, run, godmother, run, godmother, go, let me go, walk fast, that's great, iron Hello Brother Tiger , he is just like a trapeze artist. Let me introduce you. This is Commander Liu, the commander of our column. He is the ghost Iron Tiger. Iron Tiger says hello to Commander Liu. Comrade Tie Hu, you are now an Eighth Route Army soldier. Put away the Eighth Route Army. Soldiers should look like Eighth Route Army soldiers. Tie Hu salutes the commander when ordered. Commander Liu, the assault team behind enemy lines, Tie Hu, reports to you. Okay, great hero. Iron, let's go over and talk . Commander Liu, how about sitting here? , The injuries are all healed. Report to Commander Liu, the injuries are all healed. Okay, sit down and I saw your skills just now. I know that you should be almost recovered. According to me, even if it is more powerful than before, what do you think? Iron Tiger is still okay. Brother, while I was recuperating from my injury, I have been thinking about the kung fu my master taught me and I have gained some experience. The light kung fu has improved a lot. This shows that you have fully understood the mental techniques taught by the master. The kung fu on your fingers has not been tried just now. I thought you crushed the pigeon to death. Pigeons do not bully living creatures. They are very kind and should not die. It is well said. Since ancient times, knights have always been people with great love. The reason why Comrade Tie Hu is called a knight is worthy of the name. Thank you, Commander Liu, for your compliment Tie Hu. Just don't do it if you feel it shouldn't be done. People who say good things are all from the heart, but you can't pretend. Comrade Tiehu, I heard that your Eagle Claw Skill is amazing. Can you open my eyes as a commander today? Brother, what's wrong with me? You don't even give the commander's face. I'm afraid that the commander will see the joke. Then it's more important to show some real skills. Since Commander Liu wants to see it, Tiehu will show off his embarrassment here. Commander Liu, show off his embarrassment. You are so humble. Your eagle claws are well-deserved. I see that they are more stable, more accurate, and more ruthless than before. If Dapeng throws bricks, I may not be able to catch them. Ming Feng, Tie Hu, don't be too sad. Liu Tiansheng and Du Dapeng are both great heroes. The people will never forget them. Their bravery, fearlessness and dedication are inspiring all our soldiers and civilians to devote themselves to the battle against the Japanese invaders with fuller fighting spirit and confidence. I will definitely give them to them. They avenge Tie Hu, let me tell you, brother, do you have a new mission? Huang Battalion Commander Huang Battalion Commander Huang 's underground party in Jiaodong sent news that they found Su Chuqiao in Weihai. Miss Su is so nice. Xiao Zhong, immediately report to Tie Hu. The tiger went through the discharge formalities with the help of sugar-coated haws . Sir, are you sitting here? This little Japan has been quite rampant recently. Have you heard that the Japanese over there in Hubei won and defeated the national army? One army is not one army, it is dozens. Tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of national troops guarding Liuyang. Although Liuyang was not defended, the Japanese were also killed. Tens of thousands were killed, right? Not tens of thousands, but hundreds of thousands or hundreds of thousands. The national troops fought very bravely . The supply line was cut off by the Japanese, and they finally ran out of ammunition and food. No matter how many people died, the Japanese army could not defeat Liuyang City. The national army was isolated and helpless. I heard that outside Liuyang City, there were corpses everywhere and rivers of blood. Old man, don't sigh. We Chinese people are united as one. These little devils can't survive for a few days. Well said, this little devil can't grow up. Someone on the rooftop opposite may have a situation later. Look at my eyes and act. Could it be Miss Su? We won't know until she takes action. Run quickly, Xuefei, are you okay? How about Xuefei Shanmu, be careful to hide, and never expose who he is. The successor of Wing Chun, known to everyone as the magic boxing boy Liu Yingchun. If you ask me who I am, I will scare you to death if I tell you. You yellow-haired girl has a bad tone. Hey, listen carefully. I am Huang Mingfeng's junior sister Mu Xuefei. I am here today to take the lives of you little devils. Xuefei Huang, Battalion Commander, is she really your junior sister? This dead girl is not a hero if she wins with more than with less. I am a hero. There are only enough people. This young boy is too reckless. Big Brother and Junior Sister 's Wudang Sword Theory is 80% popular. I think that Wing Chun boy is not bad. It's really useless. We haven't finished the fight yet. How do you know we can't beat them? Lan Rujian, it's you. She was very pretty two days ago. This little girl changed her clothes today. She's neither male nor female. She's too ugly. You finally showed up. Xuefei, you're not hurt. Go away. It's embarrassing for you, Xiaozhong. We'll meet you at the appointed place. I'll cover you. You go quickly. Follow the command. I'll keep an eye on that Shanmu, her special operations team. They are coming soon. I will stop them. Remember, you must not fall in love with Xuefei. Don't chase you. Is it okay? The one doing Tai Chi is the hero Huang Mingfeng. Iron Tiger hero and Huang Mingfeng are here today. We have opened our eyes. There are embroidery needles, Iron Head Man and that banshee Su Chuqiao. If they were here, this little devil would have a hard time. But I heard that they are all dead. Shut your stinking mouth and I tell you, They won't die. They will never die. You guys, just wait and see the good show. You guys, just wait and see. It's really nonsense. It's nonsense. What's the matter? I've gone through so much trouble to come to you, but I have a straight face. Why did you run there? Of course I came to Jiaodong to find you. I'm looking for you. I'm here at Liu Yingchun. We are going to join the Eighth Route Army with Brother Huang. What about us? Do I have anything to do with you? I'm talking to my senior brother. What does it have to do with you? Senior brother Xuefei, I don't know him at all. He Xuefei is good, as long as he is sincerely anti-Japanese, we welcome senior brother. I don't know this person at all. You don't know him, and he risked his life to save you just now. Or, to be honest, I don't know him in the first place. How can you say you don't know him? Aren't we together all the way from Hubei to here? We also ate and drank together in Pingyao, Shanxi. The day you said you wanted to find your senior brother Huang Mingfeng, we killed several Japanese together. I don't want you to follow me. Who asked you to help? You have to follow me. How can I follow you? I am also looking for the great hero Huang Mingfeng. It's just a coincidence that we are on the same road. I say this brother, let me be fair. This big brother, please tell me what I saw in you. I've been following someone's girl all the way for a few days. That's me. Brother, you see, I won't let him follow me. He has to follow me and he can't even drive me away. I said, you girl, it's true that we meet each other. Why should we have known each other before ? Since you two If we are destined to be on the same road, why should we refuse people thousands of miles away? What's wrong with you, do you help him or me? Do n't take Xuefei's drunken words seriously. I won't mess around with you here. Farewell, Brother Lan, please Stay, you know who I am. Of course I can study drunken boxing and rope darts so well. I ca n't find anyone else in the land of Jiaodong. It seems that people are afraid of fame and pigs are afraid of being strong. This big brother, you can tell what you have to do with me. I'm a happy person and I won't beat around the bush. Huang Mingfeng, captain of the anti-Japanese enemy behind enemy lines commando team, Lan brother, I have long heard about the killing of five Japanese officers. I admire you, so I want to ask you to join our anti-Japanese enemy behind enemy lines commando team. Let's fight against Japan together. Join the Eighth Route Army to mess with you. I can understand it this way for the time being. Then I have to try whether you are just a vain name or you are really capable. How do you try it? How about a comparison. Whoever falls first will lose. How about if I win? If you win, I will respect you. From now on, eldest brother, you will let you send your orders. A gentleman ca n't chase my senior brother. He is a drunkard. How can you drink better than him? You haven't realized that you have to drink this wine today. Wait, why don't you drink it? I'm afraid that you guys will look at it. What situation are we in now? Shanmu is hunting us everywhere. If the Japanese come after us, both of us will drink and get down. If there is someone who can master drunken boxing and rope dart in this Jiaodong land, I can't find the second one, but I can beat me. Drunken Man Lan Rujian drank down not even one person named Lan. Don't talk so early. You have to find out at the wine table early. The Japanese are really going to come later. Let's have a good time together. No problem, drink wine. Now the beauty is here. Can I have a few drinks with the hero? If I can kill a few more Japs, I, Lan Rujian, will die without regret. Drink well, Senior Brother, if you win, please let Brother Lan lie down. Big brother, Miss Zhong, are you okay? I am okay. Camp Commander Huang and the others are up there. Come on, let's follow you and throw him to the ground. Senior brother Xuefei, help me there. Slow down. Senior brother, why are you so nice to him? He, he is a talent. You want him? Join the squad, otherwise why would I drink so much with him? Brother Huang, what kind of Kung Fu did you just use? Tell you. I'm warning you. If you dare to tell me, I'll cut your tongue. Xuefei, don't be rude to anyone. Who are you? You are all your own people. Liu Daxia, you are very vigilant. Let me introduce you. This is Zhong Xiaoxian from our assault team. This is Tie Hu. It turns out to be the sharpshooter Zhong Daxia and the ghost. Iron Daxia, I was so sorry just now. Liu. Yingchun has seen my little brother. It doesn't matter. It's still very necessary to keep a high degree of vigilance. It's very necessary. Camp Commander Huang, what's going on? Let's compete with that drunkard. Look at the Jiu Xian Lan. I got drunk and fell down. Camp Commander Huang, you're fine, he's fine. Brother, drunkenness hurts your vitality. It's worth losing some vitality just for Hero Lan to join us. Where is the Banshee of Firwood Zhongsao? Report that the Banshee of Firwood Zhongsao has been tightly besieged by us here. You have done a very good job in this courtyard. My subordinates are willing to listen to the orders of Lieutenant Colonel at any time. Today, I will definitely let her die without a burial place. I didn't expect to see the banshee so soon. Old Hu, don't worry, I will definitely complete the task. Chun Xi , The sky is going to change. Master, we are enough to deal with a banshee. You go and rest aside, Miss Su. Over here, chase quickly. It's Lao Hu. Lao Hu sacrificed the code pad. The code pad is here with me. Brother Tie, it's easy to move. , why are you here? Big brother asked me to protect you secretly to ensure that the code book is foolproof. This old ghost is Shanmu's master. So many imperial soldiers can't stop you, including the twelve most outstanding disciples of my Blue Dragon Society. Shanmu is right and can't. I underestimate you, you are a ghost, Tiehu, you are a banshee, Su Chuqiao, I am right, right? China is my second hometown. I have been coming to China since I was a child to learn martial arts under my master. I have stayed in this beautiful country for fifteen years. I like it very much. China, but I finally left it. Do you know why? Because there is no one in China who can be my master. Huh, you are an extremely arrogant dog thief. China is an ancient civilization. Courtesy and courtesy are the virtues of the Chinese. You are very rude, just you guys. A dog thief deserves to talk about being respectful and courteous to Chinese Kung Fu. Twenty years ago, both the Southern Boxing Champion and the Northern Leg Champion were my mentors. I'm afraid that's all you have, little girl. Twenty years ago, when I learned martial arts from my apprentice, you I'm still a toddler. How about my Chinese Kung Fu? If you don't surrender, I will kill you. But before I die, I will let you see the Chinese Kung Fu that you have never seen before. How about my Chinese Kung Fu? Are you dead or alive ? Master Kong, silly girl, you said that you need to risk your own life to deal with this kind of person? Master, how did I tell you to use the embroidery needle first, then the flying sword, and finally to use Ying Fei to scatter? This devil has long since seen the King of Hell. May I ask who you are? You ghost girl, how come you don't even recognize Master Yunkong? Why are you here? Tiehu, what's wrong with this girl? It's a long story. I'll tell you later that Master Jingwu, the descendant of Emei, spent his whole life My secret knowledge was passed on to a female disciple named Yunkong. You must be that old woman or something. If you dare to call me old woman Tiehu, take Chu Qiao and leave first. Today, my aunt, I want to teach this rude bastard Master Yunkong a lesson. , be careful not to tremble, hide away. Twenty years ago, you killed the two masters who taught you South Boxing and North Legs. Later, you poisoned Master Fakong of Shaolin Temple. The move you just made to lure Yun Jianri was clearly from Tai Chi master Zhang Zhenren. Self-made It seems that you have joined the disciples of Zhang Zhenren again. You must have had something to do with Zhang Zhenren's sudden death. So what if you can't get away from it? I just want to completely eliminate your Chinese Kung Fu. We will drive you arrogant guys to death. Let us The Japanese martial arts dominates the world, you ignorant thing. Today I will eradicate you, this scum, for Nan Quan Bei Kou Wang and Zhang Zhenren. Just be careful with your old woman. Master is poisonous and can be taken away. If you have nothing to do, don't chase after the old witch. The future of Japan is here. Okay, we want to run away later, it won't be that easy. What about you bastard? Are you okay? I'll help you up. Are you okay? It's okay. Huang Mingfeng. I'm going to have a good meeting with your brother today. Be careful with Camp Commander Huang. Huang Mingfeng, that's all. Brother, come on, Master Ming Feng, you damn girl ran away without saying hello and made me look for your master everywhere. Why did you come here? I brought him here . I'm late. It's not too late, Master, why didn't you kill that old devil just now? Master is a virtuous person after all, so he can't attack people behind his back. Taoist Master Yiqing, don't you think so? Aunt Yun said it was father, they are not human beings. Even a beast must die. You know it's not Ming Feng. You lead Xuefei and the others to leave first. I and Yun Gu will break up the rest. Your senior brother is seriously injured and leave quickly. Master, no one is allowed to act rashly. This old devil is quite good. Zhiqu Taoist Master, let's go. Don't let the children worry. I also have the intention to go. Master, the Chinese martial arts are unfathomable. We are no match for these two old ghosts. It's not good. If there is any situation, the dog will bark to inform you. Everyone moves immediately. Lieutenant Colonel Sugi, everyone is here. Search for me. What are you doing? Come on, come on, let me go. Come on, go from here. Come on, how did the little devil know we are here? Come on, come on , don't worry about so much . Come on, Xuefei. What should my father do? Come on, little Zhong Xuefei, let's go. It's you two again, I said. Chief, show your hands. It's quite comfortable to get me a stool. How about here? There are devils and devils in the west. The whole village is surrounded. To the east is the wharf. There are more Japs in the mountains and there are Japs in the back. There are quite a lot of them. Brother, Captain Wei's boat is in front. It seems that this is the only way. Take the good route, Junior Sister Taoist Priest. Have you had enough fun? We've had enough fun, let's go. Huang Mingfeng, you can't escape from my grasp . Let me chase you. Let's go. Huang Mingfeng didn't expect us to meet again so soon. Xiao Zhong, you get on the boat first. Do you think you can escape? Don't be too high. I estimate that I should go quickly and be more careful. Brother, don't say anything. Here we come, Camp Commander Huang, Taoist Master Tiehu. Pay attention as we go, they are coming. God bless me, I will fight with you. Come on, go Huang Mingfeng, get off quickly Huang Mingfeng. We have fallen into a trap. How about we live and die with the truck ? Miss Su thought that it would not be easy for me to pass quickly. Hurry up over there, Tiehu, and retreat quickly. Big brother, senior brother, big brother, big brother, big brother, big brother, big brother, big brother. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. This is Order Huang, Camp Commander Huang Mingfeng, to go. If you lose, I will kill you. Junior Sister Shanmu, Senior Brother, Brother Xuefei, Brother