- You know the logo. You've seen the memes. To hear some tell it, you or double knee pants unless or know the difference between - Getting chilly out. Better grab the Carhartt. You got about 10 seconds to take that hoodie off before I call the cops. Everybody wants to wear Carhartt until it's time to do Carhartt sh*t. - What? Most of the blowback is but there's a reason why with lava soap users as those Carhartt branching out from dirty work to fashion follows a phenomenon that's driven many fashion staples. A good deal of what we wear originates be it the trades or the military. Jeans are now eons away from Drake. While the trench coat in World War I to the front of workwear established by Carhartt is also An aesthetic that's as red, white, and blue as the baseball cap or baseball, all of Today we're gonna take a look and break down why the brand and is just as at home as a wine bar in Dime Square. Welcome to Speeed. This is everything you Before Ford sold its first and company was founded in 1889 by a man named Hamilton Carhartt Ham. As he was known, first left school to start a wholesale furniture business. Then he pivoted to work wear and after struggling initially began to see success when he workers to his bib overalls. If there's one thing I always say, if a railroad worker gives They are wise men and The second industrial of of railroads, large scale and a boost in manufacturing. Thanks to a little thing You ever heard of it? The tough, durable clothing and Carhartt catered to them and its duck canvas, which contrary to popular belief is native ducks at all. Now, this bib overall featured rust proof buttons, and But even with such beefy bonafides, it remained breathable which is important because about railroad workers. One, very wise giving men, and two, the boys get moist work hard, and they perspire in a trade Carhartt set of its customer. The men who - Wear things of our and sin you of this country. Now, rough work, honorable though it may be and the man who has been heaving or driving an express train night, or holding the boat's or whirling white hot That man is not the same at He has no time or inclination He simply wants something to protect him from the twin or to avert the cold - That's a, that's an ad in 1900. That same catalog offered for AP print overalls, ranging from $5 75 to $9 25, the most expensive Ski blue denims made for and wider cut, more fabric, more money also on offer at of trousers and jeans as well 10 years later and just over 20 years after starting with just five employees and two sewing machines, Carhartt boasted mills in South Carolina and Georgia, in addition to sewing facilities in the company's business also and the UK with France to follow. Soon when World War I broke out, Carhartt offered its to manufacture military carbons. Hell yeah, dude. It was also around this introduced it's Cho. After surviving the Great Depression and the death of its founder, Carhartt began producing its but the more lasting development of this time was Carhartt's cowboy jackets. Quilt lining was also introduced, which ended up being a major for the trans Alaska pipeline. A tremendously difficult undertaking because of permafrost and the remoteness of the work sites. Carhartt received its with 5,000 quilt line coveralls. Now, besides the overt the crews in Alaska demonstrated that the work wear could handle as any work. With nearly a century of and work wear, Carhartt really of the workday or night which has long held Americana and now makes it more faithfully than most American companies. Carhartt found a lifestyle but even more importantly, a to Carhartt as part of its uniform. Like other hip hop staples, such as the Timbaland Wheat Boot, or gaudy gold chains, for Carhartt within hip The now brand safe word for drug dealers, Carhartt's Rumi Cuts that allowed laborers to move freely lent itself that baggy clothes we're the style. Now plus Carhartts are warm, which is perfect if you around on the corners and streets of New York City for no reason, much like the music itself. Carhartt is gritty, Carhartt is tough, and for the rappers who what the hustlers wore, they It was the likes of Eazy-E In the nineties, the adherence by Nature, house of Pain, and more continued the legacy as hip hop grew in popularity of its intended purpose. New York favored Mustard Brown and Hunter Green to go with their Tims. Los Angeles opted for darker colorways, buttoned all the way up to the collar. Key pieces included the Detroit jacket and Watch Cap, If we ever make a speed beanie, we're calling it the - There on watch. You need head to be warm so you - Lemme see my watch cap to promote its newly In 1990, Tommy Boy Records embroidered its logo on them and handed them out to Taste Makers. It's like the original of which sold recently unworn for nearly $4,000 through Sotheby's. Now, the designer of this hip hop grail was godfather Sean Stussy. Although the collaboration between Stussy and Carhartt was unofficial, for the originators of street wear and work wear, respectively. Two things that have been as streetwear has existed. Now, Stussy didn't just for the record label, own embroidery on them. For more unsanctioned, skateboarding, you ever heard of street wear also latched onto Carhartt around the same time period because the baggy cuts and its toughness could stand up to repeated confrontations Those guys fall a lot and Supreme, the brand which skaters than Stussy has by Carhartt from the jump in its mission to create quality durable garments. Founder James GE had told GQ in 2019 - With a lot of skate brands. At the time, the quality wasn't of crappy, so we had to as the kids in New York Carhartt, Levi's. Our thing was to try and make things as good as but not the fashion brands, and have the quality that people are going to wear these items for a long, long time, - The dudes has half of a British accent. His mom is British. It's a very hard impression Chapter three, call Hot Whip and capital Fs. It's called Fashion sweaty. Look it up. As Carhartt was bleeding into hip hop and skateboarding in America, Swiss designer Edwin Faye of the European market in 1989, along with other American named concept. All American concept, brilliant name, Carhartt Whip Short for Work in Progress the same year as Supreme, but initially as just the exclusive Carhartt Two years later, Carhartt Whip its own designs. Now, if Carhartt proper outside of construction workers and factory guys, Carhartt Whip was youthful subcultures. Whip launched its own skateboarding and BMX teams in 1997 when its stores, it leaned into by sponsoring a number of including the legendary show in 1996 at La De and a. Then unknown Alo Black in 2010, and Danny Brown from Detroit in 2016. Danny Brown from Detroit, Detroit. Jacket coincidences don't People quit sleeping on Beginning with the launch WIP ran a yearly artist with the platform, and it even record from 2000 to 2008. When that closed down, the WIP radio website to highlight upcoming These moves helped establish the arenas that it honed in on, but the line also had to Gars being short for garments, Oh my God. They paired of Carhartt's apparel less embracing of the baggy look and incorporated a more modern and wider range of Now of course, WIP would of Carhartt proper, but and silhouettes with utilitarianism and comfort. Pre-wash reduce the by Carhartt traditionally. And WIP would also utilize and detailing that would be And while its parent company Carhartt whip is also where through it. Linked up with bait, another brand that was started in 1994 at the The list of partners that is staggering. A PC junior, Watanabe, ment and Marnie representing fashion, and Vans for sneakers, and brain dead in street wear. As remarkable as Carhartt's with a struggling business what they want to the subject of Vogue and GQ stories asking Should wear or we're still in the era of Carhartt grow garments. Deviating from rough hands to soft hands is a especially men's fashion. Serious criticism of wearing Carhartt without is pretty silly. Considering Levi jeans were made for minors Drake, and now jeans are as ubiquitous as an item of clothing can get with The military is arguably of civilian men's wear with its roots, obvious in some names. Bomber jackets, field watch caps not to be trench coats, trench warfare, trench coat. And what you may not realize is just how many other pieces trace their lineage to the military. James Thomas Brunell, the as Lord Cardigan, invented during the Crimean war in the 1850s. Cardigan sweater turtlenecks ages to protect the necks of knights from their chain issued as US Navy undergarments in 1913. Khaki pants and shirts are worn by the British army Occupation of India, pea coats the Derby shoe, the Prussian and Chaka boots, the British the US Army. Even the modern soup can be of Napoleon's army wrist watches don't come from the military, but only women wore them until the late 20th century useful in combat and finally began to switch Do I have a surprise for you? What's that? Can you believe it? My God, we're men to relegate clothing and shoes to their original They'd hardly have much We'd all be wearing bloomers dainty ones. Oh my God, bro. Oh hell What's even funnier than trying to gate keep entire categories of clothing is when people somewhere else and then they try and lay claim to that thing. Skateboarders, they wear but like a decade ago, they all became super vocal about nons. Skateboarders wearing supreme. Alright, punks don't like but a lot of their aesthetic stuff as an act of rebellion. Actual outdoorsy people, you know, guys who like the outdoors constantly but Patagonia's first item of and a fleece developed Are you a toilet? No. Then Everything is silly. Liking stuff is fun and kind of done. Fashion and clothes and videos and music and everything is just a Nothing is new, everything is iterative. Everything's a reason. Applications and it's only natural When you see an item why wouldn't you wanna see come where? Mistake. Mistake where mistake Carhartt has hardly disappeared at outside of labor, but its current upward tick Many people in the know After Corp Core's recent reign, an obvious next step from one flirtation with utility to another. The prevalence of work wear resurgence of nineties percent and street wear is rise of the monoculture has brought that inspired hip hop. Now the focal point of popular music never Eminem, 50 cent, Kanye West, through the two thousands and 2010s before what feels like every wearing a Carhartt jacket now. - Alright, so what we have a Carhartt jacket. I've got these in a number It's nice to have, it keeps you warm and I, I just, yeah, it's, it's such an essential piece for me - Of m and M's, rare Air The most valuable is the of black Carhartt canvas from 2015. Most pairs were given to friends and family with only 10 pairs through an eBay auction. Buying them now on the anywhere from 20,000 to $30,000. Who likes em and m that much? He's like, good, but like $20,000 shoe's. Good. That's wild dude. Carhartt Whip has to have its credit too. You know, they played and they created a halo effect As much as all these the most important just There's an appeal to, well-made to win out at the end. A hundred years of wear testing from heavy that Carhartt quite There's comfort in knowing that your jacket can handle it, and you are choosing a a blanket lining rivet reinforced pockets and triple stitched themes for a winter with rigors topping out But that doesn't seem overkill because it still only cost 120 bucks. You know what I mean? And you can buy it at Ace Hardware still. Carhart is cool 'cause cool people caught onto what hardworking people knew all along cool people influenced other cool people, and word spread from hustlers to rappers, from rappers to skaters, from America to Japan, from America to to America, through Carhartt to influencers, actors, and that girl or guy that is the coolest that has the perfectly faded, perfectly born in Detroit jacket. And as far as trends go, you can do a lot worse than of money with the biggest that you aren't beating it up enough. It is not easy to appeal and a creative director in of them or the other, or both. And if somehow you were to start there is no way that that Yet somehow both accidentally and on purpose, that's exactly I just want to take a second of the support that It is scary starting a new thing, scarier than I thought it would even be, but knowing that you guys and give us a chance and a lot more fun. So thank you. Please We've got a lot of really We've been making plans We're gonna start out where I tell the history of stuff, let me know in the comments and pretty soon we're gonna new shows if you will. We're gonna get out into the world, we're gonna get my hands and kick some aas. So this is just the beginning. I am so glad that you guys Not the drug, the videos. I love you. - 9, 2 5. My dad's I want the life. My beauty. I take what I want.