The English language doesn't exist. It's Those aren't my words. They're supposedly And they're the name of a book by this French who thinks the English-speaking world should [Bernard Cerquiglini in French]: It's thanks [Rob] Is he right? How French is English, So English is a Germanic language. Some people that'll become clear, but it is. Old English was brought to the British Isles to the languages that became German and Dutch, and in fact it's not totally ridiculous a better chance of understanding Old English Old English is really nothing like the English you had to put words in a different order, endings for nouns, adjectives and verbs. But a millennium and a series of historical And perhaps the single biggest event was this. In 1066, the French arrived - specifically same again. As professor Cerquiglini puts it in his book: "Without the Normans, English would today Would that be so bad? And the thing is, he's sort of right. When the throne of England, he initiates a period He kicks out all the English nobles and replaces He sacks all the English bishops - bar one And suddenly, anyone with any power in England And that remains the case for a few centuries. You know, one of England's most celebrated - Richard the Lionheart spoke barely a word of English. That's if So French was the language of the elite. It and art - all French words, by the way. As a result, French words from these fields You needed to know them to get anything done. justice and culture are from French. Words like parliament, council, court, judge, go on. And I will. Tax, bill, jury, prison, baron, duke, culture, on... And I will: words like attorney, rule, economy, I think you've got the picture. And what also happens is the names for trades on more prestigious French names. The Old English flesh-monger is replaced by becomes the carpenter. The chapman becomes And we end up with barbers, drapers, grocers, And the power dynamic between the lowly English our language today. We've ended up with two words for a lot when they are alive, and a French one for We have cow and beef, sheep and mutton, deer Because the English would encounter them on them on the plate. You've perhaps heard all of that before. In fact Walter Scott tackled it way back in noble family surrounded by Normans. In it, the jester Wamba says "old Alderman while he is under the charge of serfs and but becomes Beef, a fiery French gallant, before the worshipful jaws that are destined Mynheer Calf, too, becomes Monsieur de Veau tendance, and takes a Norman name when he becomes matter Many more of our words for a fancy banquet A servant may bring you your dinner, or serve Loads more of these coming up, But if all this talk of French has got you learning another language... allow me to help you with that because viewers Lingoda. Lingoda is a great place to learn a language you speaking to real people as soon as possible. This is essential, the way I see it, because the real learning starts when you actually And Lingoda makes that so simple. You can suits your skill level and your schedule. And each lesson comes with lots of great material I had a fabulous time. [in French} I'm Rob, I'm here to do a Lingoda is right now running a Language Sprint aimed at getting you in a daily language learning If you complete it you can get 50% cashback. And that combination of the live lessons, are all designed to keep your learning on Plus if you go to my link below and use the 25 US dollar - discount off the Lingoda Sprint So check it out. Okay, back to the many French words in English, And like with the meats, our names for family language. Our closest family have Anglo-Saxon names words have been with us since Old English. But niece, nephew, aunt, uncle, cousin: they're non-nuclear family members when it comes to matters of hierarchy and but not necessarily if you're only ever During this period, which we call the Middle words is pretty much insatiable. In fact in some cases, we even took on the forms. William the Conqueror and his lot brought French. It was spoken in northern France, and was pronunciations. The Normans were essentially Vikings who had lingo. It's what the word Norman means. But a bit less than a century after William passed down to the Plantagenets, a dynasty that spoke a different dialect to So check this out: where Norman French used a "w" sound at tended to use a '"g". The Normans made a "k" sound where their And they made a "ch" sound where central Now, during the Middle English period, English dialects, many of which remain with us today. We took both warden and guardian, warranty Now, these words meant the same as each other, with its own nuance. And that tactic of borrowing a word but giving that has helped make English the gloriously Because, instead of French words replacing sat alongside them. For example, we can still "ask" for something, We can "answer" and we can "respond". We can "wish" and "desire", "begin" We have the Anglo-Saxon versions and the French-derived So English takes on vast amounts of French But it also never really gets out of the habit, of the ruling class. A process that begins when the English crown and ends arguably with the Hundred Years War when speaking French in England was no longer Over the centuries since then, we've continued has always been a bit prestigious. It's... It's fancy! We've given various Anglo-Saxon nouns florid Things concerning the brain are "mental". our towns are "urban". A lot of that's just the result of a fashion And as the professor points out, in the 18th us borrow ballet, connoisseur, coquette, coterie, I actually had to look up "soubrette". maid as a character in a play or opera, usually one of a pert, coquettish, or intriguing "Pert"? The upshot of all that is that it's now day English come from French. That's huge. And if you take into account the Latin-derived of English words are actually Germanic. On the face of it, that seems like a win for language than a Germanic one. But not so fast. Because what's important here is precisely Because yes, there are lots of French words But the vast majority of the words we actually Our core vocabulary is overwhelmingly from On this list of the 100 most frequently used French. And that's the word "people" - a word and they're using it to describe their celebrities. Actually, it's funny how French has started in the first place. It's one of the big themes of Professor [Cerquiglini in French] Many of the anglicisms old French words. We know this for "tennis", which is "tenez" [Rob] His point is that French-speakers should has permeated the English language so deeply rest of the world. [Cerquiglini in French] Organization of the International English is French. Be proud! [Rob] Yeah, also "United States". That's States is an interesting one actually. I dedicated next bit but a surprising number of "st" words with E T. In the case of state, it's Etat. But also "stage" has "etage", "stranger" That's because the Old French versions of dropped the E, and French dropped the S. So we may have put our own spin on them, but language and undoubtedly, vocabulary is the most profound But it's not the only way. The grammar of English has changed significantly change happened as the Normans arrived and Now, it's hard to know how much of this English, for example, has just come into a the Vikings, Old Norse, too. But there are at least a couple of changes One of them is that we developed a second someone or somewhere and we still have both So nowadays we can say "The king's sword" The first of those reflects the Old English same formula as French does. It uses a word to suggest possession - in instead of just adding letters to the end English did. In Middle English, it also becomes possible it's not something we do that often these But we can say, for example, "move to pastures And we can speak of "time immemorial". This is a French construction that we also Procurator-Fiscal, Notary Public or when we And could it even be that the French changed had? Almost certainly yes. Because during the Middle English period, extent. Especially at the start of words. In Old English, We also see H-dropping that is more familiar vowel. But far from it being something that was seen as it occasionally is now, it was probably seen as the opposite. Because [Inspector Clouseau:] I would like to buy [Rob] To drop your Hs was to sound more French This might even explain why H-dropping is were historically of administrative and commercial of Englan. because in areas that would have had much to drop their Hs. Think about how some people They're emphasising the Hs if anything. And a remnant of this idea that dropping your the fact some people still insist on saying treating the H like it isn't there. I think perhaps some people think "an historic" which brings me onto another profound change for. Let me show you something. This is Caedmon's Hymn. Written sometime if not the earliest attested example of an The key characteristic of this, and indeed it contains amazing amounts of alliteration. It repeats the sounds at the start of words Let's have a listen to this marvellous reading Note the alliteration, but also just see if [Kara Schallenberg] Nu sculon herigean heofonrices Meotedes meahte ond his modgethanc, weorc Wuldorfaeder, swa he wundra gihwaes, ece Drihten, or onstealde. So hopefully you heard the alliteration in It didn't rhyme. Now, I know poetry doesn't have to rhyme, about the alliteration. Poetry in English only starts to rhyme after French poetry was known for its rhymes at in England too. Without doubt the best known writer of the and look at this. He ends every line, And Chaucer was well versed, so to speak, [Cerquiglini in French] Chaucer, working in [Rob] Yeah, and in The Canterbury Tales he's the English Channel. So our poetry, our grammar, our vocabulary can indeed claim a part in shaping English [Cerquiglini in French] It's thanks to French [Rob] Well, maybe. Colonialism, Hollywood and the internet might Nevertheless, it seems to me that the sheer means we 1.5 billion English speakers around just speaking badly pronounced French. If you've enjoyed this video, I think you And if you can read French, check out the great. I've got a totally free newsletter about You should sign up to that and I'll see A la prochaine. Cheerio.