This story begins before I was born. The year is 1990 and a retired couple has discover - Heaven's to Betsy! - it didn't come with *any* window blinds. So to make a little extra money, they decide newspaper. &quot;Back in my day, the internet came in the *Meanwhile!* My mother was about to return My brother and her brand new baby daughter, My mom worked in sales at a greeting card between stores to check what kinds of cards You know, happy birthday, sorry your grandma But spending so much time in the car is not &quot;Meh&quot; So she started looking at various daycares. *Evaaaalllluating* them. *Inveessstigating*, if you will. You can't expect her to leave her brand new *Maybe* one of those used babies with a few screen protector at least. The first place MomTom visited was a licensed (doorbell) The lady running the place warmly She would have offered a place to sit, if with papers, laundry, and various garbage-y A baby was crawling in a literal pile of dirt over him. Where did you get licensed? The back of a Walmart? In the words of lemongrab, it was... not great. And almost every place she went to had the After weeks of searching, she had nothing. Personally, I think the feral dog would have Eventually she looked in the local newspaper, &quot;Will babysit, in your home, two kids.&quot; And my mom was ecstatic! &quot;I can hardly contain myself.&quot; Now, *I* don't remember this, because I didn't asked the lady about babysitting, and if they In the background you could hear her shout Are we going anywhere today?&quot; &quot;...No&quot; I guess after years of raising their to calling each other Dad and Mom. They agreed to meet. So my mom dressed my sister up in the cutest distract from her horns. And it worked! Emma would babysit, but just for a bit. You know, until she made enough to get blinds. Well, a few months turned into a few years. My mom got married, and soon after, I was Emma was there to give me my first gift, a Later, when I learned to talk, the only other him Blue Pooh. But Emma wasn't having any of this new baby She told my mom, &quot;I can't watch another baby! You'll just have to find someone else.&quot; And find someone else, she *didn't.* Unlike ended the second we rolled out of the hospital. So, if Emma wasn't gonna babysit me, I had I may be only a week old and I may be easily country, nay my mommy needs me! My job was to sit in a comfy lil stroller A few days into Take Your Potato to Work month, - pulled the cover back on the stroller: &quot;Oh better go I'm not feeling well.&quot; ...WHAT THE? She just coughed in my little baby face. Needless to say, that was the straw that broke When Emma heard what happened she said &quot;Well You just leave him with me 'till you find And the way *I* like to tell the story is A few weeks later my mom still hadn't found looking right now. You can find somebody when - he's a little He doesn't need some stranger coming in here...&quot; For years my mom would ask if she should find hush and leave that baby here... My Timbird needs me.&quot; And now I'm gonna skip a few things to when My mom was single, and struggling to support So when she met a charming and successful let her quit her job to focus on raising us, might as well have been on the moon it was Emma was such a big part of my life, from her grandma. She *was* my grandma. So, moving away was devastating. I remember leaving her house in tears, &quot;Grandma, to go.&quot; Luckily, the guy my mom married turned out Before we moved in to his house, *he made That's bad enough, but there's more! When I was a kid, I was just bursting with You're telling me this guy's my new dad? Hell yeah. One time I sat next to him on the couch and he... shoved me to the floor &quot;I'm not your And that's how I learned about emotional damage. One time he told my sister to clean her room, a little kid. But! She left some socks sticking out of the top (mocking) How terrible! Anyway, he thought that was a good excuse I remember hiding in my room and trying not And I don't wan't want to overstate it, because Like, my sister. I just experienced a taste of trauma, and At some point, my mom looked through his browser site talking to other women. His username was something like Handyman1234. Ok. But the way she handled it was ice cold. She used *67 so her number wouldn't come up used a really flirty voice, &quot;Hi Handy.&quot; That's the best I can do. Anyway, he laughed and asked who it was, and And with that, we moved back to a place just We were gone for a year, but we made it home. I'm so lucky to have had her in my life. Emma taught me so many things, but I think to be blood-relatives to be family.