Private jets are affordable nowadays been looking for a private jet, sit back, private jets out there. Uuurrrrhhh order of prices, because of the increasing prices can be unpredictable, but even remain the cheapest. Welcome to Honda Jet jet was introduced to the market back in 2015, Aircraft, which is the first aircraft developed private jet, personal jet, &quot;jet&quot; in it, not including jetliners haha, looks like some nice shoes, its lavatory, (it's the only very light jet with a lavatory), which is its most unique feature. Most are just copying each other, but you can't The Honda Jet over the wing was designed to maximize space by engines on the rear of the fuselage, the Honda jet offers a lot more room quieter than competitors because the of the plane. It is powered by two each pumps out about 2000 pounds of The HondaJet is faster than any maximum cruise speed of 422 KTAS at and has a maximum range of 1437 accommodate six passengers including optional seven-seat layout that adds a the Honda Jet is available for but if you want the Elite version, it will used market, you will find Embraer Phenom 100 cheapest product you can get from Embraer, the phenom 100 as an entry-level what it is) with next-generation technology. comfort, performance, and two rear-mounted Pratt &amp; Whitney Canada PW617F1-E thrust each, which helps the phenom 100 to The maximum fly is 1178 nautical miles, which is a this jet is that the airframe contains which makes it a little lighter (relatively), with a structural life is 28,000 flight designed with the highest and widest so it can sit four passengers in normal crew. Because of the innovative oval jet provides more head and With the choice of 11 you can really make the aircraft and according to the manufacturer, the the largest among entry-level light jets a luxurious natural light (Wait, was the Cirrus Getting this but if look into the used market, for the early models. This jet has been in development long before I don't know what the but this jet is a game-changer. it will not with its superior performance, the Cirrus finally in production (that's just a at the case of the Cessna TTX vs the and some better range is not always all it a Parachute to the 716 if Well enough of the blablabla. Whether you 716 is basically the 714, but more passengers and payload. This jet was focusing on simplicity and docile operation. The Stratos 716X's engine thrust contributing to the and low pilot workload. As a Very making the Stratos 716X handling simple and The 716X is designed make exceptional performance enjoyable. high-performance twin-engine light jet of a single-engine turboprop aircraft. Canada JT15D-5, which helps it 2000 miles of range with full fuel a the 716 can only go 1356 miles, or Currently, you can only get the 716 as a Everything will cost you about $2.5m. The Citation Mustang is best utilized the most economical private jets out there. which measures 9.8 feet long, giving it a total cabin volume of 210 cubic feet, but the maximum It features oval windows, all leather like a high-end sporty sedan, more Using two Pratt &amp; Whitney Canada PW615F which pump out 1,460 pounds of thrust each, cruise, but if you throttle it up, it can go 1343 miles. It has a service allowing you to fly over inclement weather, G1000 avionics, which is one of the mustang from the market in 2017, so you $1m to $2.5m, depending on the year it was built. This jet was introduced to the market back jet in the world. That time, Eclipse because their dream was to make unfortunately, it was a dream that company went out of business. Production due to a lack of funding, just two The cabin of this jet is pretty it measures 12.3 feet long, 4.7 feet wide, and 4.2 volume of 109 cubic feet, making it maximum configuration seating 5 with Pratt &amp; Whitney Canada PW610F fly for a maximum range of 1294 miles knots, making it perfect for trips around longer in production, you can only but with this current surge of private Cirrus Vision Jet smallest and the cheapest private jet you can with a wingspan of 38.7 feet. The enclosed It can seat up to seven second and third rows each seat two, and third row, but the third row is only The SF50 is the first jet to come with making it the safest aircraft in the largest cabin in its class, the carbon with unexpected head and shoulder for an immersive experience. It is powered that produce 1846 pounds of thrust, which with a range of 1381 miles the seats, you will have to carry less fuel, it perfect for super short trips. Prices start but if you want the G2 reaching $2.75m with options. You can used market, I have seen one listed for sells them brand-new, well that's and if you want to buy from Cirrus, you Learjet 60 improved version of the Learjet 55, with a engines, which have been in the market since 1993. So, if you want some extra passengers, and go farther, go for the you do need two pilots to fly this Canada PW305A turbofan engines, thrust each, making this Learjet one of it doesn't just take off, it blasts off it will ascend to 41,000 feet from sea level of over 4000 ft/min. it has a maximum miles and a maximum speed of 463 43 inches yielding an 18-inch longer a fraction under six feet, and these eight passengers with a maximum A Learjet 60 nowadays can go for around making it the cheapest private jet on the list.