Disinfected &amp; dried. Let's get to work! As thoroughly as possible. We always have around 1 ton of veggies. If my kid eats this school lunch, I want them to enjoy it. I want them to like the food and eat it with a smile on their face. Thinking of our own children when making the food, we wouldn't want any dirt or bugs in it. And because everyone is being so careful and thoughtful, we're able to make these delicious school lunches. Delicious. We can be confident about the taste, right? I enjoy my work here! We have spring and summer breaks, so I feel like I'm back to being a student. It's fun. Let's get to work! Our shoes too... ...are disinfected and dried. I'm getting off any dust or hair. Cleaning thoroughly, under supervision. As thoroughly as possible. The nails too. Not just here, but here too. I have to get any dirt off. Today's menu is grain bread and milk, rice with hashed meat and sauteed asparagus and sausage, and some strawberries. So we're only cooking 2 dishes here today, but usually we have several tons of veggies. Today is around 1 ton. Or a bit more? We're making food for 13 schools. 9 elementary schools, and 4 middle schools. And starting next week there'll be new 1st graders, so we're making 7000 meals. If my kid eats this school lunch, I want them to enjoy it. I want them to like the food and eat it with a smile on their face. That's what we're all thinking of while preparing the food. And I believe that's the most important thing. Thinking of our own children when making the food, we wouldn't want any dirt or bugs in it, so we are all extra careful. And because everyone is being so careful and thoughtful, we're able to make these delicious school lunches. If a knife gets chipped, the food might be contaminated, so we always check the tools. We usually don't get to hear the kids' voices, or feedback like &quot;It was delicious&quot; or &quot;Thank you!&quot;. But the schools ask them to write letters to us, and those make me really happy about my job. If you don't hurry, you won't be able to catch up with the work. When I first did this, I often had tears in my eyes, and everyone around me was so fast at this. So I've been giving my best to catch up with them, and get faster at peeling. 9 baskets, each 10kg. And this here is 3kg. This is beef! It's a lot! This is 93kg. And the one that came before that was 62kg. Water quality test! We do a water quality test in the morning, before we start using the water. We let the water run for 10 minutes, filling up the sink, and start washing the vegetables in it after the test. It's a basic step to make sure we provide safe school lunches. This machine has many blades, so we can cut the veggies very fine. We have to separate them like this, since we have so many kinds of seasonings. Excuse me! This one, right? Salt, pepper, and oil. Go ahead! Today we have stir-fried sausage and asparagus. A nutritionist at the local government decides the menu, by considering nutrition, calories, salt content and the likes. And based on that, we try to make the dishes as tasty as possible, using only the predetermined ingredients. Everyday, we consult with each other and decide on how to prepare the food. Thank you! Tastes like school lunch! Go ahead! We put the containers in the refrigerator according to the number here. There are 2 - 3 containers per elementary school. This is the food container for only the side dishes. The tableware has already been transported to the schools. The container with the tableware was already taken to the schools in the morning. We put the food we've prepared here, and it is then delivered to each school. I'll pour it in! Go ahead. Ok! I'm making two round trips! I'm so nervous! Yeah, we took our masks off too! We only had 2 dishes today, so it was easy. It's delicious. We can be confident about the taste, right? It's thanks to everyone's hard work. I'm very grateful.