Portugal - Portugal is full of natural wonders. Follow us on our journey as we explore the sun-kissed southwestern corner of Europe. Our road trip through Portugal started along the beautiful Douro River in the northeast of the country. Forming a natural border to Spain for more than 100 kilometers, the Douro has cut a deep canyon into the landscape. Several remote viewpoints provide travelers with impressive vistas of the countryside. Whereas the Douro is entirely tamed in its later course, here in the northeast of the country, it still exudes a feeling of wilderness. We spent all day exploring the little trails of the area, which, to our delight, became more and more challenging. Some of the trails were steep, while others were narrow or rocky - and some were everything combined. With the day drawing to an end, we made our way to one more viewpoint, where we were rewarded with a wonderful sunset scenery. The entire landscape was bathed in beautiful golden light, while the river flowed past gently. Early the next morning, we visited the first of many Portuguese castles: Castelo de Algoso. This medieval castle was one of the most important fortifications in the northeast of Portugal and looks back on at least eight hundred years of history. Nowadays, this region is extremely peaceful However, in past centuries, frequent warfare with the neighboring castles and watchtowers, many of which have survived to this day. The surrounding landscape is nicknamed ,,Terra Quente", translating to Hot Land, as it is governed by an arid climate which is ideal for cultivating olive trees. Whichever direction we looked, olive plantations dominated the scenery. To make the most of the limited water in the region, several rivers such as the Rio Sabor have been dammed, creating large artificial lakes. While marveling at the view, we spotted a small gravel road leading towards the lake shore. Of course, we didn't think twice and immediately headed down the path. Conveniently, it was time for lunch, so we packed out our camping chairs Needless to say, we also went for a refreshing skinny dip in the lake. After driving back up again, we soon found Even though Portugal is known as a warm weather destination, especially in the north of the country, But luckily now the sun has started to warm up the After some early morning off-roading, we arrived in the village of Gimonde. The small settlement is known for its ancient Roman bridge Lucky for larger vehicles, there is another bridge just 150 m upstream which leads straight towards Montesinho Natural Park. The winding roads through the eastern part of the park are mostly tarred, but regularly give way to narrow cobblestone streets when passing a village. One such settlement is Montesinho, which is considered the most picturesque village of the park by many. While driving through the narrow streets is possible, Exploring the village on foot, it did not take us long to discover that the local human to cat ratio is about 1:5. Continuing towards the western part of the park, we steadily drove uphill. Meanwhile, the landscape started to change as the Intrigued by the rugged hillsides, I decided to go on a hike. Following a gravel road, the trail led past pastures before climbing up towards a heath landscape. It didn't take long until both the trail and the conditions became rougher, however, the granite rock formations proved to be worth the effort. Upon returning to the car, I was not surprised Shortly after, we set up base at a lovely spot next to a river Our efforts were soon rewarded which provided us with a generous yield. The next morning the sun had disappeared and we were engulfed in fog as we made our way towards Peneda-Geres National Park. Portugal's only national park is home to lush forests of oak and pine and is considered one of the last strongholds of the Atlantic European flora. Due to its four mountain ranges, the park is governed by numerous micro-climates resulting in rapidly changing weather. Rainfall is much more common here than elsewhere in the country with the low-hanging clouds creating a mysterious atmosphere. While the park is the habitat of a few remaining wolves, However, travelers are guaranteed to spot cows which regularly cause traffic jams. Most of the parks remaining inhabitants still live from agriculture and the region is renowned for both its cheese and beef products. After passing through some narrow alleys, Not long after, we discovered our first waterfall in Portugal. As a result of the frequent rainfall, scenic waterfalls Even in moody weather, it is a delight to watch the water gush downhill. One of the most impressive waterfalls can be found at Ponte de Mizarela. Here, the relentless force of the water has created a Despite the incessant drizzle, we took our time to enjoy the scenery. Unsurprisingly, the weather showed little signs of improving that day. Trying to make the best of it, Lucky for us, the enchanting scenery was beautiful to look at, even in the rain. Leaving the tarred roads behind, we followed a gravel track through the lush forest. Interestingly, this particular trail is an ancient Roman Road that follows the course of a nearby river. Not as old, but arguably just as scenic, are the many mountainous roads of the park that beckon visitors to go on a road trip. Another 16hours of rain later, we found ourselves camping next to a little rivulet. Fortunately, the clouds had finally had enough and the sky started to open up again. We seized the opportunity and drove along some narrow roads before ending up on the bumpiest cobble stone road to date. Our destination was a remote mountain village, Tracing back its origin to Roman times, the village was mostly Celebrating the comeback of the sun, these horses have lived in the area for at least 20.000 years and are perfectly adapted to the rapidly changing weather. We are surrounded by about 50 tomb-like structures, that in the past were used to store grain and corn for all the families of the village. And they are built on stilts for a very simple reason, and to keep the grain safe. While the stilts keep rodents away, the slits on all sides are an adaptation to the high humidity of the regional climate. As moisture is known to cause crops to rot, These granaries, which are called Espigueiros in Portuguese, In almost every village, travelers will spot several granaries built from wood or stone. Only a few of these granaries are still in use today, but they are preserved by the locals as they represent an important cultural heritage. While the weather remained unpredictable, which is beautifully set in the surrounding mountain range. If you intend to legally fly a drone in Portugal, in our backpack we carry around this stack of paper: authorizations we needed to obtain before coming And these include gps coordinates, flight radius, the dates of the flights, and so on. But, worst of all, you do not only have to contact a single agency but depending on the location up to four separate agencies. And of course they all need to give you their approval for flying. Now it is up to you to deem if it is worth to go through this process of 20 odd hours or not. Located on an isolated hilltop, Castro Laboreiro looks back on more having changed hands multiple times during that period. Today, only ruins remain, Leaving the national park behind, before meeting up with the Atlantic Ocean. After following the coastline south for a bit, we soon headed inland again. Taking small roads through the countryside, we made our way towards Ponte de Lima, where an old Roman bridge crosses the Lima River. Shortly after, while looking for a campground, we were caught in a low-hanging cloud with visibility dropping to a meager 15m. Instead of continuing in such dangerous conditions, we quickly looked for a spot to park and were lucky enough to end up above the clouds. The next morning, we could barely believe our eyes With the sun finally breaking through, we headed down the mountain towards Braga. Regarded as the religious center of Portugal, the most well-known sight of the city is the pilgrimage church of Bom Jesus do Monte. Especially striking is the monumental Baroque stairway leading up to the church. Aside from its beautiful nature, Portugal there are medieval churches and and iron age villages such as this one - at that was inhabited two and a half thousand years ago. Little walkways lead through the archeological site into how humans lived in the past. Just a stone throw away, the town of Guimaraes is often described Strolling through the narrow alleyways, we discovered a traditional bakery where we purchased a selection of pastries that we promptly enjoyed for breakfast. Heading east, we drove through an undulating landscape Situated in the central north, Parque Natural do Alvao, However, it protects one of the largest waterfalls of Portugal: Fisgas de Ermelo. Dropping down 250m over several cascades, Hiking in the park, we noticed that many pine trees As it turns out, these bags are used to collect pine resin, a natural product that is processed for such things as paint, cosmetics, and car tires. That evening, we finally tried out our outdoor kitchen for the first time. Folding down the sand tracks on the side of the vehicle results in a fully functioning cooking area, perfect for preparing dinner. The next day, we headed south and soon met up with an old friend again: the Douro River. At this point in its journey, however, it is not the wild river we got to know earlier, The reason for that change are wine growers The Douro River valley is especially well known for the production of port wine, a typically sweet red wine which in its original form is an Other than growing grapes, the river shore is Continuing onwards, we followed the course of the river until we arrived in the port wine capital of the world: Porto. Porto lies on the northern shore of the Douro River. The city on the southern shore is called Vila Nova de Gaia. As that is impossible to pronounce for foreigners, both cities are usually referred to as Porto. Our exploration of the cities started on the southern shore from where we looked onto Porto including its most famous bridge: Ponte de Dom Luis I. The two-level metal arch bridge spans the River Today, it is one of six large bridges that connect both cities. A good way to see all bridges is by embarking on a boat tour on the Douro. Gently swaying on the river opens up a new perspective onto the cities. It also allowed us to throw a glance at the historic riverside quarter of Porto as the wine merchants must have seen it in the past. Before the use of a railway, the wine was transported to the city in small boats. While the mode of transportation has changed, Filled into wooden barrels, Aside from fermented grape juice, Porto is also known for its Azulejos - colorful ceramic tiles that adorn many buildings of the city. One of the most lavishly decorated buildings is the Sao Bento railway station which depicts countless scenes of Portugal's history. The main attraction of both Porto and Gaia Bustling with activity, they are home to countless restaurants and shops, and the playground of street performers. Despite its undeniable charm, Porto remained somewhat of a mystery to us. It is a lively city abuzz with music, creative street art, Based on its breathtaking riverside location, However, we also came upon countless derelict buildings which left us with mixed feelings. But as everyone came together to watch the sunset over the river, we were grateful to have had the chance to visit the city. Leaving Porto behind, we shortly stopped at this beautifully ornamented church, before heading back into nature. One of Europe's last untouched coastal marshlands can be found at Ria de Aveiro. A haven for numerous bird species, We were especially delighted to spot some flamingos in the shallow waters. Wading through the lagoon at low tide, they use their specially adapted bills to separate mud and silt from shrimps, algae or insects. Of course, human fishermen have taken inspiration from the birds and are equally on the hunt for eel, cockles, crabs, seaweed, and many different fish species. Fascinatingly, the water is so shallow, instead of sitting in them. To cross over to the other side of the lagoon, we needed to board a vehicle ferry. After a 15min boat ride, we disembarked and carried on towards the ocean where we came upon even more birds. Instead of following the coast further, we decided to head inland once more. Traveling on some narrow mountain roads, we steadily climbed uphill We are currently strolling through a mountain village built entirely out of schist. This is an incredibly peaceful spot: there are no barking dogs, no traffic, no reception just the babbling of the brook and the chattering of the birds so truly a place to wind down. While the village itself is more than 300 years old, In the early 2000s a project to revive the traditional schist villages of the region was launched and Cerdeira was reborn. Today, the town is both historical and modern, As such, it is a perfect retreat for artists, nature lovers and travelers who enjoy silence. The nearby village of Talasnal looks back on a Still a construction site in parts, the settlement is equally charming and peaceful. Wandering around the scenic alleyways, we promised ourselves to return one day, when we are in need of doing absolutely nothing. For the moment, however, we carried on and drove back to the coast. Finding ourselves a beautiful spot along the sea, we sat down on our roof terrace and watched the sun sink slowly into the ocean. As soon as day turned into night, the stars provided us with a stunning vista. Early the next day, we were reminded of the importance of momentum when it comes to driving in soft sand. Staying on sandy forest trails, we continued towards Portugals most well-known surfer destination: Nazare. The formerly quaint fishing village During the winter months from October to March, Mainly responsible for this ferocious unleashing of nature i s a deep submarine canyon which abruptly ends at Nazare's north beach. Combined with massive Atlantic Ocean swells, the collision of two wave directions, the wind, the tides, and the sea currents, athletes find the worlds biggest surfable waves at Nazare. To deal with these extreme conditions, a technique called Tow-in-surfing is used. Holding firmly onto a rope while being pulled by a jetski allows the surfers to catch even the fastest waves. Once they let go, they are on their own, racing down waves that under perfect conditions reach heights of more the an 20m. Crashing under such conditions is life threatening Meanwhile, on the cliffs above, hundreds of onlookers watch in fascination as the surfers battle the elements. Switching up our mode of transportation, we hopped on a boat and headed towards the island of Berlenga. Situated around 10km offshore, the island is well known for its jagged coastline including submerged rocks, arches, caves and tunnels. Strikingly, Berlenga is made up of pink granite, The same type of rock was used to build the islands most famous landmark: Connected to the island by a narrow walkway, the fort was used to fend off pirates and enemy fleets. Since its construction in the 17th century, it was destroyed and rebuilt several times. Nowadays, the island is much more peaceful as it is part of a nature reserve that protects Back on the mainland, we set out to explore the Erosion and the incessant pounding of the sea have created many interesting rock formations in the area. The waters off the coast are also teeming with fish, Some of the fishing spots are only accessible via steep ladders, a climbing adventure, I simply couldn't resist. After almost 3 weeks on the road, we decided it was time for a little treat. That is why we checked into a stylish hotel called Areias do Seixo, where we spent our first night in a fairytale-like shelter. The perfect getaway for a honeymoon, this charm tent is spacious, cozy and private. Of course, we immediately lit a fire which only added to the magical atmosphere. Unanimously, we decided that the next day would be fully dedicated to relaxation. For that purpose, we tried out every single of the many resting places of the shelter. Around lunchtime, we changed into one of the Our classy bathroom even came with a private whirlpool. As before, our main activity was to relax, which we promptly did on our private porch. In the afternoon, we met up with Luca, the garden manager of the hotel, who is in charge of supplying the restaurant with fresh produce. He was kind enough to take us around his domain Portuguese cabbage, the interesting thing that I noticed I've never seen cabbage grow with such a big stem Yeah, it's like a tree! I've always seen them like spreading from the ground and I think it has to do with how the climate here is very constant. We also discussed the importance of sustainability when it comes to growing food. We're not used anymore to see people growing We're just used to see tractors and then we see supermarkets and the food is ready but we don't and what it should taste like. Sustainability will be that more which is what we eat, what we put in our body and Upon returning to our room, I lit a fire in the unusually shaped wood stove while Anna prepared our bubble bath. Fully relaxing one more time, Instead of following the coastline south, Embarking on a route of castles and convents, which scenically overlooks the Tejo river. Not far away, the Convent of Christ in Tomar The knights' influence is clearly discernible in the Today, the entire castle complex is protected as part of the Unesco World Heritage. Meanwhile, in the small city below, the spirit of the Templars still lives on. Whereas all previous churches exuded a degree of calm, the Sanctuary of Fatima was more of a religious outdoor festival. By some accounts, Fatima is the most with more than 6 million visitors annually. The site is held in such high regards as, in 1917, three Shepard children supposedly witnessed an apparition of the Virgin Mary here. After some thorough research, the Catholic Church To show their devotion, or as an act of penance, Others bring sizable devotional candles which are then thrown into a fire pit. Several tons of candles are burned that way every month. To add a little break on our castle and convent route, Discovered in 1947, the web of underground tunnels is known to stretch at least 8km. While the rock formations were truly impressive, we were rather disappointed by the crowded character of the guided tour. Back in the land of the living, we looked at one of the smallest castles to date before arriving at Mosteiro de Batalha, an absolute unit of a convent. Work on the monastery started in 1386, Taking 131 years to complete, The result is a richly ornamented building that has no peers in Portugal. Every detail of the monastery is a work of art. Equally part of the Unesco World Heritage, the Monastery of Alcobaca is even older. Dating back to 1153, Founded by the first Portuguese king, who dedicated their lives to religious meditation We are walking through the dormitory and it is but that must have been a downside if one of would have heard it everywhere. The final stop on our history route was the Palace-Convent of Mafra. The construction of the palace, which has no fewer than 1200 rooms, was mostly funded by mining gold and diamonds Our favorite room turned out to be the library Having completed our inland loop, we happily returned to the coast. Our destination was Cabo da Roca, Leaving aside its geographical importance, The surrounding cliffs drop more than 100m towards the sea Due to its prominent form, the cape is also easily spotted from a distance. Driving along the coastline, we often stopped to marvel at the scenery. All around the area, the ocean has shaped fascinating rock formations. After we enjoyed some very empty mountain roads, we arrived in the town of Sintra, where we quickly realized we had picked a bad day for our visit. Abandoning our intentions to visit the nearby Palace, Portugal's capital is equally the largest city of the country, Situated along the Tejo River, The city is well known for its narrow alleys As the city is built on seven hills, walking up stairways Alternatively, visitors can take one of several elevators or funicular railway lines that connect the lower and higher levels of the city. Even more iconic, however, are the historic yellow trams. After purchasing our tickets, we boarded tram 28 During the trip, we noticed that Azulejos are extremely widespread in Lisbon as well. Fascinatingly, their color and style differ vastly leading to an interesting variation of this ornamental art form. During the last weeks a considerable part of and chiefly among these Pasteis de Nata, the Portuguese invented right here at Mosteiro dos Jeronimos. Back in the 18th century, monasteries used large quantities of egg whites for starching clothes, while the egg yolk was left over. Tasked with finding a solution, Catholic monks developed the When the monastery closed, the monks sold the recipe to a nearby bakery The fascinating and admittedly delicious thing about Pasteis de Nata is that depending on where you will buy Some are crispier, some are creamier and so every Not far from the monastery, the Monument of the Discoveries celebrates the Portuguese Age of Exploration during the 15th and 16th centuries. A little further down the river, the Torre de Belem when leaving the city, and the first when they came back. Today, the fortification is Lisbon's most famous landmark For us, Lisbon was at its most beautiful when the sun While the clouds were painted in spectacular colors, we sat down in a riverside cafe and watched the day turn into night. Leaving the city southbound, it didn't take long until we were exploring the cliffs and beaches of the Setubal Peninsula. Our excitement grew even more, when we discovered Providing prominent views of Lisbon in the background, the trail led on top of a cliff and was a lot of fun to drive. Much less visited than other capes, Cabo Espichel allows for silent contemplation while enjoying the spectacular cliffside views of the promontory. Throughout the day, we drove along the scenic coastal roads of the peninsula, navigated the narrow streets of Sesimbra, and marveled at the clear water and beautiful beaches of Arrabida Natural Park. While we initially followed the ocean route through the park, This turned out to be a stroke of luck, Embarking on a ferry once again, we left the Setubal Peninsula behind and continued our southward journey. An interesting contrast opened up in Sines, where the local surf break is not far from the massive shipping harbor. Undeterred, both surfers and kite surfers braved the windy conditions. Staying as far away from the main road as possible, we explored many of the sandy backcountry trails of the area. To our joy, we also discovered a trail that led directly on top of the cliff. Even better, due to its remote nature, we had the track all to ourselves. Some time later, the trail got rather tight, After a massive thunderstorm overnight, the sun was a little shy the next morning. Having now officially entered the Algarve, we immediately headed back on as little a trail as we could find. The combination of sandy trails, low shrubbery and ocean vistas soon reminded us of our off-road adventures in Australia. Needless to say, we very much enjoyed ourselves as we were utterly alone, Even though it started to drizzle after a while, our spirits remained high. They were lifted even more, when we looked down this particular cliff where it appeared as if the dark rocks were bleeding onto the beach. As the sand was getting increasingly soft, we lowered our tire pressures accordingly. With less air in the tires, it was all smooth sailing, even along the uphill parts. For the remainder of the day, the weather couldn't decide on a clear course of action as frequent bursts of rain and phases of blue skies chased one another. The only ones who weren't bothered by all this were the The next morning, we got up early to watch the sunrise at Of course, the local fishermen were already up as well. They weren't the only ones hoping to catch fish though. Gazing out onto the ocean, we discovered a big pod of dolphins in the distance. Behind me there is water. So much water in fact, that people in the past thought this was the end of the world. The Atlantic Ocean stretches for thousands of kilometers from this southwestern tip of Europe and only the seafarers from Portugal, Spain, and Italy in the 15th and 16th century discovered that With the sun back in full force, we paid a quick which was heavily damaged in the notorious 1755 earthquake Taking a turn off the main road, we headed onto small gravel trails again. We were thrilled to discover that the rain had left behind countless big puddles which allowed us to re-paint the car in muddy colors. Once more, we were lucky enough to discover several magnificent viewpoints. Generally, the western coastline of the Algarve turned out to be one of our favorites as it was stunningly beautiful while not being overrun. In comparison, Ponta da Piedade is no such secret anymore. Wind and weather have crafted the 20 meter high cliffs The entire area is riddled with caves, arches and other rock formations, while the water of the surrounding sea is incredibly clear. Naturally, this is also a popular spot for taking Instagram photos. The cliffs are especially beautiful during sunset, when the landscape is bathed in a soft golden light. Many people will come together to watch the sun slowly sink into the ocean. With a little bit of luck, someone might even play the guitar. Because of its pleasant climate and beautiful scenery, the Algarve has seen a huge surge in tourism in recent decades. A downside of this development is the construction of large apartment buildings Especially along the otherwise stunning Seven Hanging Valleys Trail, the vicinity of the hotels frequently impedes the view. Nonetheless, countless breathtakingly beautiful spots remain to be discovered as the entire coast is littered with picturesque limestone caves and grottoes. Occasionally, one can also find sinkholes where the soft rock has collapsed. We just performed a routine check of all of sometime in the last days, so we sprayed some water and it does, so now it's time for a tire repair. First, we needed to remove the screw for which we used pliers. Surprisingly, the stubborn little thing put up quite the fight. As soon as it was out, we took a reaming tool to widen the puncture slightly. Following that, we prepared the rubber plug which would seal the hole, We then cut off the remaining bits with a knife, filled up the tire with air and soon were ready to go again. Continuing to hug the shoreline, we drove east until the scenery began to change. The previously rocky limestone cliffs were replaced in an area that is called the Sand Algarve. Walking through the streets of Faro, we discovered a cafe with a rooftop terrace. To get to the top, we had to take the narrowest spiral staircase ever. Overlooking the roofs of the town, Turning around, we saw a stork clapping its bill mere meters from us. The rooftops and church towers of Faro are immensely popular among storks. Their characteristically large nests can be seen on many buildings. During the day, the birds often strike up a song, clapping their bills in unison. Similar to other birds, they find rich feeding grounds in the nearby lagoons. Walking on a little trail, we made our way towards the The hundreds of rusting anchors along the beach are a solemn reminder of the traditional fishing methods used to catch bluefin tuna. With the rise of large-scale commercial fishing, After having explored all of Portugal's southern coastline, Following the Guadiana river, Similar to many other settlements along the Spanish border, the cityscape of Mertola is dominated by a castle. Due to its strategic position, the area has been settled for thousands of years by different peoples including Phoenicians, Romans and Moors. Today, the town is somewhat of a walkable history book, Continuing our journey, we drove through the If you ever bought a decent bottle of Now, cork is a natural material as it is won from which grows abundantly in this part of Portugal. Cork oaks are dotted around the landscape which indicates the year they were last harvested Portugal is regarded as the number one cork producer globally, supplying around 50% of the trade volume. Aside from being used for wine bottles, cork is a versatile, durable and sustainable material that has been growing in popularity. While the cork oak survives on very little rainfall, For that reason, the Portuguese dammed the Guadiana River and created one of Europes largest reservoirs, the Barragem do Alqueva. Now, the permanent presence of water allows farmers to practice agriculture, protecting livelihoods in a region that suffers heavily from emigration. Additionally, the damming of the river has fundamentally altered the landscape, making it much more interesting on a road trip. Looking into the distance, we saw dark rainclouds approaching and before long, it was bucketing down. Escaping the bad weather, we went indoors, Undeniably a morbid piece off artistic expression, the chapel was built by Franciscan Monks in the late 16th century. The bones of around 5000 corpses were exhumed from nearby cemeteries to decorate the chapel walls. Lifting the spirits of everyone who enters, &quot;We bones that are here, wait for yours." Considering the experience we just had, we slept surprisingly well that night. Possibly a spiritual site as well, the Almendres Cromlech is a megalithic stone structure While its actual purpose remains a mystery, Meeting up with the Guadiana river one last time, we visited Juromenha Castle before driving north on narrow countryside roads. Upon our arrival in Marvao, we discovered that both castle and town Spending much of the next hour driving in or just below the clouds, we continued to head north until we arrived at Portas do Rodao. Here, a stunning geological formation creates a portal in the Tejo river. A narrow mountain road leads all the way to the top of one side of the portal from where a little keep overlooks the picturesque river landscape below. Always heading north, we left the Alentejo behind and drove towards the more mountainous regions of central Portugal. Along the way, we stopped in the village of Monsanto, one of the most unusual settlements of the country. Built on the side of a hill, the townspeople simply incorporated To take it all in, we sat down on top of one of these boulders for lunch. Of course, the castle above the village equally includes such rocks in the makeup of its outer walls. It's a little windy up here! Naturally, the wind didn't stop me from climbing up the ramparts, although I almost came to regret it. Fans of lost places will find the former Aguas de Radium hotel much to their liking. Built at the beginning of the 20th century, the one-time spa was said to cure a number of ailments using radioactive treatments, a business model that didn't fare well in the long run. And then, on our way to the summit of Serra de Estrela, it was finally time to hit some mountain roads again. However, as we gained in altitude, we noticed that the wind was starting to pick up in force. Once we reached the first plateau, it had turned into a veritable storm, but this was only a taste of what was to come. While the landscape was stunningly beautiful, the quickly passing clouds were another indicator of the weather at the top. Unperturbed, we carried on, only to find the conditions deteriorate further. Needless to say, there wasn't much of a view at the summit. Returning to our car after a one hour lunch break, we found it completely iced up. Others even struggled to leave the parking lot. Let's just say we expected our visit to the however, there's a raging snowstorm outside, our windscreen keeps on freezing every but this is a real adventure up here. Look how pitiful he looks. I am so miserable! Trying a second time the next day, we were blessed with blue skies and sunshine. Before long, we drove through an icy wonderland of surreal beauty. Heading towards the summit, we were flabbergasted by how different the landscape looked compared to the day before. At 1,993 meters, the highest point of mainland Portugal is known as Torre. Less a distinctive mountain peak and more of a plateau, the summit is marked by a trig point and two old radar stations. While the previous day's snowstorm had been replaced by sunshine, its remnants were still very much visible. The entire landscape was covered in a thick layer of ice which resulted in some beautiful natural artwork. Driving through this world of ice and rocks, With the sun slowly setting, we headed down the winding mountain road, Getting up early the next morning, we watched the magnificent sunrise which promised us yet another beautiful day in the mountains. After freeing our windshield from some ice, we went out in search of the smallest trails in the area. It did not take us long until we found a gravel track leading through a landscape of low shrubs and big rocks. During the summer, this region is perfectly suited for extended hiking trips. Equally, off-road enthusiasts will find the countless Leaving the Serra de Estrela behind, we followed some narrow roads until arriving at Foz de Egua, a picturesque mountain village built out of schist. Best known for its historic double bridge, the tranquil village is still a hidden treasure. After embarking on some roads that re-defined the term ,winding', the weather started to turn south once more and we were left with zero visibility. The weather today has been downright hideous, but luckily the living quarters of our expedition vehicle are large enough so that we can snuggle up in the back with a cup of tea, watching the Lord of the Rings for the umpteenth time. Hearing some weird noises outside, we looked out the window, only to find a Shepard braving the rain with his flock of goats. Having waited out the rain, we embarked on one last adventurous road. Carrying the name Portal do Inferno e Garra or Hell's Gate and Claw, this mountain pass sounded like an absolute delight. As soon as we started to climb up the steep road, we knew we were in for a treat. After several hairpin turns, we arrived at the portal which towers 1000 meters above sea level. Providing us with sweeping views, this pass turned out to be one of our favorite drives in Portugal. After 5 weeks of traveling all throughout the country, our road trip ended where it had all started: along the shores of the Douro river. Blessed with a magnificent display of stars, we spent our last night reminiscing about the adventures we had had. Several times along the journey we had realized how our preconceived notions about Portugal were shattered in front of our eyes. More than just a sunny beach destination, Portugal delighted us with its variety of landscapes, its rich history, and its scenic roads. Portugal has proven to be diverse, wild and rugged - and as such, a perfect destination for a road trip.