Every country size comparison. Okay, we are beginning Then we have Vatican City, Compared to a cruise ship, I would have thought Vatican would have been maybe twice but it's more After Vatican should be Monaco. Yeah, we know stuff. Nauru and Tuvalu, Then back to Europe Bloody hell. It's 160 kilometres squared. It is so much bigger than San Marino. It'd still take to walk from the north to the south. I guess that just shows how small Then we have Marshall Islands, We've had quite a big difference here. We have a lot of oceanic countries Lots of Caribbean places, it seems. Bear in mind, this is only All this spare ocean in the middle, Barbados, Antigua. I like seeing the way Seychelles! Best flag going! Other than, Saint Lucia... What's after Seychelles? Palau, okay. Andorra back in Europe. Saint Lucia, there it is. What's all these dots? Micronesia. Micronesia's landmass is You can understand why I can't really visualise Oh my God! I want to go. Look at the runway! This is still number 177. Singapore is a very small country Then Tonga is a really Dominica with its beautiful purple parrot. It is so weird seeing all Big step up there in order to show what? I feel like you've been a bit premature. Luxembourg is ranked 168. There's 30 countries that are I feel like this whole time I thought of Luxembourg as one of the fifth smallest Okay, next we have Samoa. Cape Verde. Cape Verde isn't necessarily but it's just because of how far Cyprus, very recognisable. I love seeing Cyprus with its flag because the outlines in the flag, I wish it was centred, I'm not going Okay, so we know what all of the biggest countries are, but I don't really know how Look at Gambia, Why have we zoomed out so much? Something crazy, surely. Israel is actually bigger I would never have expected that. Then we have Rwanda, Haiti, Burundi, Equatorial Guinea. Look at that. Then Solomon Island is popping up. Solomon Island is a lot Then we've got Armenia, Lesotho, Belgium. I cannot believe that countries like much smaller than Belgium. There we go. Netherlands and Denmark side by side, Slovenia. What's that about? Croatia and then Toga, Toga actually slightly smaller Sri Lanka is a country that you don't but it is ranked 119th. There's 70 countries in the world But you always compare it next to India, you think of it as a teeny, But here it is, nearly the same Then we've got Sierra Leone, United Arab Emirates, think of as really small, Then Jordan. It's going to be mad when stuff like Russia and China and Brazil It's going to be such a huge difference. Guatemala, Cuba. Cuba being a very annoying Bulgaria is actually Never would have expected that. Bernina, really bizarre shape. Eritrea, once again, than places like North Korea, for example, Bangladesh, Tunisia. Okay, we must be due a big Cambodia, Syria, Senegal, Same with Kyrgyzstan Guyana. Romania, making it into United Kingdom, 78th biggest country. Then I always think of New Zealand I suppose it's not too different. Philippines, though, for some reason, Italy is actually which I never would have expected. Norway and Vietnam being a similar size Germany, ranked 60 Well, that can't be right. Rank 58 for Iraq. Morocco. Morocco, but everything Africa is distorted, Cameroon, nearly the top Thailand. Then Yemen sneaking in. Kenya, Botswana, Madagascar. What did I tell you about Africa? Ukraine is bigger than Kenya and Botswana. I would never have expected that. I always think of everything in Europe Somalia. What is it? Chile is ruining our graph Chile, top 37, which is All right, Venezuela, Nigeria, Lots and lots of African Look at Ethiopia Columbia, South Africa. I wouldn't have thought We're in the top 20 now. We're going to start seeing Canada's got to be here at some point. Peru looking wild with its You don't always see that. Look at its cheeky little llama. Yeah, we definitely Mongolia, massive country. Iran, bigger than I expected. Libya, massive country. Sudan, absolutely huge. 1.8 million kilometres squared. Indonesia, gigantic country. Mexico, bigger than you think. You don't think top 13. Saudi Arabia, I mean, it's big, Greenland, not technically a country, Democratic Republic of Congo. Alger, right, we now reached the top 10. Kazakhstan, Argentina, India. Okay, we've had a big upgrade. What you sticking Oceania in for? That's not a country, that's a continent. Ignoring Oceania, We've got to have Russia at number one, Canada at number two, Then is it USA? I'm probably going to get this wrong. China. I'm sure I've missed an obvious one, and I've definitely But what we got, China. We must have had India already. United States at number three. Canada at number two. Finally, Europe. Get out of there, Europe. It's just comparing the continents. Kind of mad that Russia There it is. Then we get to see South America, Then we've got North America at rank Africa looking absolutely bad ass there. There's Asia, The entire Earth land area, You ruined it. Imagine putting all that data together and then putting a P Either way, make sure you check out LeeZY Comparisons at the top Subscribe to this channel if you