The archives are open. In its history classified many documents - until now. Now, these Here are fifty of the most of the FBI - including details on one #50. Alive or Dead? In the aftermath of World War II, the entire world Hitler. But despite the confirmation that his life marched in, rumors started to spread. Did Hitler maybe to South America? Did he shave his mustache as one ill-advised sitcom imagined? The rumors the FBI investigated evidence of his survival. And It wasn't the only FBI #49. The Wife J. Robert Oppenheimer, the brilliant physicist winning the race to the atom bomb, was largely leftist ties. But he was also married - A trained biologist, she worked for the government vulnerability to radiation. The FBI was more involved with communist activist Joseph Dallet Jr. being investigated by agents about current ties, But many FBI investigations during #48. Detention! Even before President Roosevelt's infamous the United States' Japanese-American population, During the war, anyone deemed a security threat during the national state of emergency - and it German-Americans, and Italian-Americans were and the FBI kept an exhaustive But being investigated by the #47. The Money Man It's rare for someone to play a key role in the wasn't an ordinary man. The stock market magnate Woodrow Wilson, and advised President Roosevelt When anyone is that close to the President, Did they find any red flags on the man? United Nations Atomic Energy Commission And in some cases, it's about #46. Operation Paperclip When the US government decided to recruit space programs after the war, they knew they they were okay with some Nazis, but not with digging into the wartime activities of valuable and relatively clean enough to become can dig into the original reports of figures But sometimes, the FBI was looking #45. Flying SOLO While the US never went to paranoia was high about the communist nation That's why the FBI created SOLO, an intelligence within the Communist Party of the United States to communist nations like the Soviet Union by two agents - now declassified as Russian whose background gave them the skills needed But not every espionage #44. In the Bag How do you get a search warrant when the Simple - you don't. During the 1940s and was called Black Bag Operations. This was when the businesses under the cover of darkness and search of the search that they were being watched. Many so they weren't disclosed until the files until 1966 when the bureau ordered it stopped, But not all targets of FBI #43. The Lady of Peace Jane Addams was one of the most a tireless advocate in the progressive era She even became the first American woman to be in the anti-war and anti-imperialist movement. How about a treason investigation? When World War and she founded a women's party devoted to peace. communist activists, the FBI started monitoring But one peace movement led to more #42. Yippie? The Vietnam War was deeply controversial, investigated by the government. whose brushes with the law would lead to what His group, the Youth International was frequently investigated by the FBI over a FBI archives will find a whopping fifty-part being portrayed by Sacha Baron Cohen in One bloody day would come to define the Vietnam protest movement and lead to #41. Blood on American Soil It started out as any other peace rally in in Ohio protesting the National Guard presence But what wasn't typical was the National killing four students and wounding nine others. and massive rallies around the country none of the Guardsmen who fired were criminally the shooting - and all those documents can But some FBI cases are a lot less serious. #40. There's No Place Like Home? Few pieces of movie memorabilia are more iconic- of Oz. That's why it was such big news when they This theft was reported to the police, but the by the FBI. It took the government organization and even then it took multiple agents shoes were returned back home where they belonged. But some cases may be a little silly. #39. Sing That Song "Louie Louie, oh no. Me gotta go". The right? But what does it actually mean? No When the popular song by The Kingsmen debuted wondered if the song was hiding a dirty little they hiding a coded political message? The FBI creators - and came up empty, as the lyrics remain It wasn't the only time the #38. Not Fab Everyone loved the Beatles - if their But the government wasn't as fond of the administration had a particular grudge against convinced that Lennon was plotting to influence FBI launched an investigation that led to the the process of deporting Lennon. While Lennon was plans for an American tour - a victory for Nixon But you might be shocked by just #37. Before the White House Ronald Reagan having an FBI file they probably like to know about the radar long before 1980. In 1947, when he he had a file - but why would they want surely the last suspect anyone would have as strong anti-communist that he and his then-wife over the name of actors they thought might be But one more beloved figure had FBI ties as well. #36. The Mouse's Secret Walt Disney was notorious and the man behind Mickey Mouse and the Disney the illusion of all-American happiness in his political views which led to his deep ties on World War II propaganda films, and long them - giving them information on un-American with them through his death in 1966, and was even But many celebrities have files #35. The Lady Sings Why would Whitney Houston have an FBI file? and it got her on the government's radar. her often chaotic relationships landed her in her associates. Many people from her including a stalker who tried to blackmail But why would one of the least-controversial #34. Take Me Home? John Denver seemed like the guy next door, with the type your parents sing along to on a long Up until his death in a plane crash, Denver It was mostly concerned with his anti-war activism but it also followed stalkers and death The FBI even got involved in #33. The Bombshell Anna Nicole Smith was famous for marrying She inherited most of his fortune, much to the The two were involved in a vicious account - vicious enough for Marshall to to an FBI investigation that ultimately decided it was all for nothing - Marshall and Smith died But even the original bombshell #32. Government Prefers Blondes? Marilyn Monroe has been the subject due to her mysterious death. But the FBI wasn't with her love life. One of Monroe's many who was believed to have Communist leanings. eye on her - which led many to believe the She wasn't the only icon to #31. Loooooooocy! Everyone loved Lucille Ball, who along with iconic sitcoms of all time. But Ball was an up spy chatter with her tooth fillings. The FBI as the comedy star had been affiliated with repeatedly interviewed and denied having any never placed on the notorious blacklists But some stars had a rougher road with the FBI. #30. Hardly Silent Charlie Chaplin was best known for physical his silent film The Great Dictator. the screen - he was a political activist who Chaplin was a British citizen who worked a lot in make that more difficult. He even famously blocked which led Chaplin and his wife to This next target wasn't afraid to fight back. #29. Turnabout is Fair Play Truman Capote likely expected to be the author behind Breakfast at Tiffany's who supported Fidel Castro in Cuba and exposed the the colorful author have a two-hundred-page FBI enemy of J. Edgar Hoover by spreading rumors that Sometimes, it's not anything someone does #28. Hard Rock Rock Hudson was one of the first true matinee sensation in the 1960s. But he had a secret - a closeted gay man, was interviewed by the FBI online - but not all of it. The file is still what the FBI wanted with Hudson, who famously Sports brought a surprising number #27. The Breakthrough Few figures in American history have become more who broke Major League Baseball's color barrier. be quiet and play ball. He became involved in the candidates from both parties. But what got Harlem facility for the International Workers But one sports icon was on the FBI's #26. Shame of the Yankees George Steinbrenner was many things, during one of their most successful periods. illegal donations to Nixon's re-election and then campaigned to be pardoned of the his shady financial dealings led him to have an Sometimes, people get investigated #25. The Man for the Jobs? Steve Jobs is a big name to anyone who but he was on the government's radar as early appointing him to the Export Council, and the they found wasn't routine, and it likely they find out that he experimented with LSD as but many people stated that they believed But why would the FBI investigate...Helen Keller? #24. Silent No More Most people know Helen Keller as the young by vision-impaired schoolteacher Anne Sullivan. she was determined to never be silenced opposed President Wilson's policies, Liberties Union. A proud socialist, she where she has a forty-five-page FBI file. But many of the FBI's files were #23. The Big Man Few names appear in the FBI's archives more than While Al Capone's most storied opponent was FBI - but the bureau was keeping tabs on up not by his smuggling and mob activities, and was nabbed for tax evasion - something Even Supreme Court Justices #22. The Good Judge Thurgood Marshall had a complex rights activist and lawyer to becoming the But his FBI file doesn't look the same as most Marshall knew that he would be spied on. J. Edgar Hoover in the 1950s and met with FBI he helped to protect the organization from But not all judges had such a stellar reputation. #21. The Bad Judge? When Abe Fortas was appointed to the Supreme Court ally of the President - maybe too close. He was and when he was going to be elevated to the investigation picked up heat. The FBI files threats. Ultimately, his nomination for Chief And some cases are more by public demand. #20. Where Did She Go? When Amelia Earhart disappeared during her the Atlantic ocean, it was highly unlikely that she had encountered some mechanical never to be seen again. But that didn't stop the looked into. Countless Americans wrote in to the while there was never an investigation, It wasn't the only disaster #19. Up in Smoke The Hindenburg zeppelin disaster became one when the massive airship caught fire, killing a tragic accident, the FBI initially investigated Spah, a comic acrobat who was one of the first before the ship crashed, suffering only minor activist and accused of being a saboteur, the FBI Another, even more famous disaster #18. The Challenge When the Space Shuttle Challenger went up in the cold war was still at its peak Could the Soviet Union have struck a The FBI investigated, with over a hundred much like the Hindenburg, didn't come up Sometimes, the FBI gets closer to #17. Reel Life Why would the FBI have files on a noir film from for the FBI" and it followed the story of a The film was a patriotic thriller as a justified response to the threat of Communism sure they were being portrayed well and But not every FBI file is serious business. #16. Thumbs Up Why would Gene Siskel, the late film critic on which film deserved a thumbs-up, be in the of The Silence of the Lambs, which he memorably only one page - a letter from FBI Director William Plate Award. Receiving that letter from the FBI It wasn't the only time the FBI got involved #15. Hollyweird While Lucille Ball was investigated on her own, the FBI files. In 1977, the FBI was pulled into they were tipped off by studios that someone of famous movies and TV shows. In addition to Family and The Twilight Zone. Not exactly high But not every file the FBI has #14. So YOU Want to Be an FBI Agent If you want to wear the badge, you'd better start the best information you might get comes from the agents was released as part of the FBI archives, procedures they use to track the bad guys. Just version released is almost twenty years And you might be surprised by who #13. My Privacy! Digging through the archives, you'll find both FBI's radar. They can spy on just about anyone don't get charged and never find out they were on everyone - even you. If you're feeling you can find out. A Freedom of Information Act exist and aren't classified - if you're ready But some FBI cases are just #12. The First Memo Guy Hottel was a special agent working at be a competent man, which made it all bizarre memo in March 1950. He claimed Force investigator about the recovery Not only did he describe them in detail, extraterrestrials were recovered. Needless to But it wouldn't be the only #11. The Con Man Silas M. Newton was already a powerful man in He claimed to have a device that could and was generally regarded as a charlatan. a flying saucer crash-land on his territory and he later changed his story. The FBI's years of con artist tactics, but it hasn't But was the FBI really concealing the truth? #10. Not So Majestic It was one of the biggest bombshells in "Operation Majestic 12". Sent it revealed a conspiracy dating back to recover and investigate alien spacecraft and memo would have been the biggest scandal An investigation revealed it to be a forgery, and But some famous UFOs were investigated. #9. What Happened at Roswell? For over seventy years, the events in Roswell, And while it's been exaggerated in many one-page FBI memo describes it. People shaped like a hexagon and suspended from a with many people thinking it resembled an One particularly terrifying #8. Those Poor Cows In the 1970s, western and prairie states animal mutilations, mainly cattle. The them and seemed like they had been mauled by the descriptions said. While many possible including satanic cults, no answer to It was enough to get the organization #7. Look to the Skies There were enough reports of strange sights in the National Investigations Committee on Aerial the FBI to share reports of unexplained flying correspondence didn't actually result in any working with them as well as cooperating with the But did the FBI ever crack the code of #6. Let's Break In! Sure, a bunch of guys on the internet thought but we're no closer to figuring out exactly what's really - Area 51 isn't under their jurisdiction, To get some clues, you'd have to look at their Area 51 in some documents - with no details, But the FBI did investigate #5. Mind-Readers Is ESP a real phenomenon? Are there actually before they happen? The FBI vault states information about events beyond what can be It's a vague phenomenon, and the investigation years and likely a lot of money to determine And sometimes, the FBI might #4. The Rivalry The FBI handles domestic affairs and You'd think that would make them natural allies The two agencies can be bitter rivals and leads to missed opportunities for cooperation, are plotting against the United States And what does the FBI say about that fateful day? #3. The 9/11 Files Few files were more anticipated documents on the September 11th, 2001 attacks. would shed light on possible involvement by the conspiracy theorists wondered if it would The documents shed some light on intelligence Sometimes, Hollywood doesn't live up to the hype. #2. Declassified? When CBS announced a new documentary series many people wondered how they could get secrets? Would the FBI break the door down on all counts. The six-episode documentary but didn't declassify anything - which But one case might be more #1. Getting Hairy There is no American legend that Is there really a giant, hairy humanoid lurking FBI actually investigated the legend in the footprints, and waste material. In 1976, couldn't be matched to any species. The inconclusive - which was more than enough for For more on the government's secrets, check or watch this video instead.