MICHIO KAKU: We are entering what I call We have not just new energy and new financing and a new vision emerging. For Elon Musk of SpaceX for Jeff Bezos of Amazon, he wants to make Earth all the pollution, goes into outer space. And Jeff connecting the earth to the moon. And so he the planet Earth to make Earth a paradise and Now, I once talked to Carl Sagan and he said shooting gallery of asteroids and comets and with a planet buster. Something like what we need an insurance policy. Now, he was clear population of the earth into outer space--that our own on the earth like global warming. We not flee to outer space. But as an that humans become a two-planet species. And now, of course, Elon Musk has revived this He wants to put up to a million colonists on the by a combination of public and private funding, including anti-matter rockets. Some of these be available till the next 100 years. However, postage-stamp-size chips to the nearby stars. So and have thousands of them sent into megawatts of laser power. By shooting this by energizing all these mini-parachutes you the speed of light. This is with doable of engineering. It's a question of political there's no law of physics preventing you from That means Proxima Centauri, part of could be within the range of such a device. Now after 20 years of launch, we might be able to And it turns out that Proxima Centauri B the closest star to the planet Earth--what a staked out our first destination for And that is Proxima Centauri B, a planet that goes And so this could be the first of many But remember, we're talking about the future of settlers on Mars you have to have a million You have to have fleets of workers to you create the first self-replicating robot. then four, then eight, 16, 32, 64, until you cities on Mars. And so that's the weak link. dome cities on Mars as part of our science these dome cities? I say, they're going Robots that can make copies of themselves by And then beyond that who knows? Maybe our Remember that on the earth, 99.9% of all species think of Mother Nature as being warm and cuddly. savagery of Mother Nature is revealed. And if you under your feet, right now, are the bones of all that were doomed by the laws of nature. And the And that's why I say given the fact physics have a death warrant for humanity that In the history of science, we've had some First, we had the Manhattan Project which Genome Project which allowed us to map the initiated the Connectome Project, a project to map the brain directly to a computer now. Stephen watch videotapes of him and look at his right in his right glass that communicated by radio to a laptop and it allowed him to type mentally. minds with the internet, send memories, send it? The United States Pentagon. The United States GIs from Iraq and Afghanistan who have spinal and connect the brain directly to the muscles possible to create an Iron Man exoskeleton. there was a man who kicked the football and about that? That man was paralyzed. He couldn't an exoskeleton, connected to his brain and he was initiating the World Cup games. Now going to be like in the future now when Eventually, computer chips will cost a There'll be everywhere and nowhere including blink and you'll be online. And who are the College students taking final examinations. They right there in their contact lens. And this could and there's some very important people there who they are, in the future, you'll know exactly who date, they could be great because, of course, he's rich and he's successful. But child support, that he's three times So yes, we're going to have almost infinite mentally. That is, we'll be able to think and send them on the internet. Already, we can memory, short memories in mice. Now it's being They'll push a button and memories will come you'll push a button and have that So we're entering a new era where the internet replace digital internet. Instead of zeros memories on the internet. And, of course, happy face at the end of every sentence, they'll first date, their first kiss, will be right there entertainment. Because remember the talkies? When business. No one wanted to see Charlie Chaplin nothing but sound and a screen. Think of what will what the actor is feeling. Then the movies dinosaur technology once we have brain net capable I think we're entering the fourth wave of power. When we physicists worked out the laws energy you get from a lump of coal to energize a was the first big breakthrough. The second electricity and magnetism. When we physicists us the light bulb, that gave us television, revolution took place when we physicists opening up the world of high technology. The that is artificial intelligence, nanotechnology, between biotechnology and artificial intelligence First of all, the job market is going to explode and baby boomers have disposable income, not next year. And so there's going to be plenty cures for horrible diseases like Alzheimer's, for these--but a tremendous amount of effort is Also, take a look at cancer research. We're using nanomedicine. That is individual molecules cancer cells using nanotechnology. And the next In the future, your toilet will be your because your bodily fluids--blood and your bodily of maybe a few hundred cancer cells in Think about it for a moment. There are people who have cancer growing in their body, maybe they won't know it for perhaps 10 years, when you forming a tumor. We will have what is called for the signatures of cancer at colonies of a proteins circulating in our blood and bodily will tell you that you have cancer; do something, ladies and gentlemen, what I'm trying to tell you from the English language. We will have years cells growing in our body. And our descendants Cancer is going to become like the common it doesn't really kill anybody except maybe if you the common cold because it's too difficult to In the future, we may see cancer in the same varieties of cancer. We can't cure every single And we will eradicate it in the same