Manifold Garden is a beautiful game. It's a of five years and released in 2019 for the PS4. structures, reportedly having a fascination with to a new medium. Finding most materials too one place where he could explore near infinite Manifold Garden is a puzzle game that works room is endless, having solutions often require and yet somehow connecting these rooms after its original release, in 2021, it was I had always seen games as art, this game At the time, I was a very small channel still even wanted to make after years of experimenting, essays. And so, with a lot of unrefined passion delve into this world and come out the other is the title of a youtube video I made now nearly sitting nowadays at around 25,000 views, but is Video games are far from the first medium to be a good book or show or movie knows that one or to time and time again. They vary in how easy or different... while also being very very different- me, has a slightly different answer than the rest, Now you don't need me to tell you this, everything else is that you interact play. What this means is that when it comes there's theoretically much more that you media are experienced mostly in a line, your route through a game is just one line your first experience ever could be. Your even for very linear games, it's one sliver This isn't just limited to where you go well. Difficulty settings, for example, change environment, being able to get away with more the game and how it works to beat its harder from actual physical locations to silly modes entirely uproot the game's design, letting you fly area of exploration is larger in every sense However, the degree to which you can replay games the whole of this experiential space, varies spoken a few times now on this channel about increasingly more common as time has gone on. lot like a sport. You're given a set of rules, a rules and place alone is fun and interesting One of the decent-er examples is Rocket with its playable area literally and confines of an arena. You and either 0, 1, 2, number of opponents in 5 minute matches of car arena which both gives you extra speed and enough skill and practice. This and just a few is and has been at its core since release, and The natural extension of this sort professional competitions between the very best esports support at big events for games since competitive games used to be released evolving with each new one and having the former aiming to be esports want to be like actual However, companies keep finding out just how hard played competitions, the list is very, very and never popularized, or died out, or mutated abandoned is uncountable, but when it comes right to its existence. Even though there's logistical work to create leagues, if they could still be played and new federations would However, these video game sports, these forever and as such have many different complications. the game and the universe and means by which to to make, so where other sports could be proposed existences rely on the success of these games, without intervention. It takes money to keep to the pro players, but to every single person And so, when the vast majority of them start to need to start implementing life support. Constant game modes, new characters launching every 3 their solution is to keep trying to expand the things already inside of it. The longer that time, sifting through its new content, the confusion but for gamers, you can never get used even with these measures in place, the vast Even Rocket League, after several years of and didn't wanna see if it would stabilize or after being bought out by Epic, the game went before then there was new game modes this became a constant thing. Microtransactions other of these sports games, but it has only on. And all of this, this constant shuffling to fight exactly one thing: the irreversible The time around a game's release is normally knows what's good and what works, so ideas are game is and could be. Wild and unrealistic new tricks get discovered constantly, and makes the community rabid to discover then... they discover everything the game has to Once the scope of the game is found, its limits to be directed inward. As players improve, the large swings and daring plays to smaller nuances execution meaning more and more as time goes on. the functional playable area of what you can the enjoyment for winning with each and every This whole wide world of interaction, all gets smaller over time. And as the functional to months after release, two things happen. or it dies, very very slowly. And it honestly that whether it lives or dies basically boils cannot possibly account for the exhaustive game does to its DNA or how the culture around The most recent example I've seen is with been out a bit longer than a month now, and the game is starting to come to an end. It with video essays trying to answer why is game fun? And still, at this point, of fun with the game. And yet, without If you saunter on over to Helldivers twitter or find landmines among the terrain. "We need to using anything but the right breaker gun, kick. kick. If they don't have either Railgun or Nade to set a standard for high rank pug play. You own or friends time, but if you not using these This isn't much helped by the whole mini-industry soon as physically possible to tell anyone and ideas and items and vehicles and setups are for becoming more and more common these days to not but to intentionally do so quicker for the sake focuses on the best stuff and on overarching for some things to be nerfed or buffed, Now, many games do delay their death by a good but it's nearly impossible to keep up with how of these games, too, they don't start with mass. For anywhere from months to years they launch with bug fixes and new cosmetics sold in is cement the core of this game in the minds to be added, a large part of the players will And so, once the developers go into life-saving cracks right down the lines of these communities. both hold on to the core and continue to add and changing too much for the original fans and not So the type of games that survive are either the keeping a core audience that grows, and the Fortnite, without a doubt, is a brilliant empty and entirely soulless, but the one thing they will never run out of things to do. forever games failed, which is the willingness the sake of entertainment. There is some vague and it has held on to its primary game mode be utterly uprooted and betrayed at any moment In this way, I actually respect the stick to its core and adapt to the whims of a sacrificed its integrity straight out the gate. a video games. It becomes whatever the community stability. I'm weirdly happy that such a game is utterly unapproachable. The and then restricted is by never being However, this sort of replayability rot is not our minds have a tendency to absorb whatever and it's not just something that happens with 3D from 3D to 2D to top down absorbs us into through. With our adaptable minds, it seems own for a while. And, so, what happens if we could to put it more broadly, what would happen actions? This idea has been explored many but the thing it concludes Undertale, the most video-essay-prone game of all Flowey. Undertale is a video game about game structure into defined parts and that includes the ability to save and thing at any given time. Before you arrived a flower injected with determination, the And, as we near closer and Flowey's motivation becomes clear. Above at least, he no longer wants to exist in this Flowey was initially given god-like abilities and at the start of his existence at the end of it. using his lack of consequence to solve everyone's every dialogue tree, to kill everyone, to burn less and less real. Everything was determined, As weird as it sounds, the more we play a game, can treat it as a world, as something unique and jumps a matter of acceleration and base speed weighed in quality by start and end lag, repeatable ways to reliably break the No place that's real is so easy to define, and some of these characters, to In Undertale, we have the privilege of not None of these characters do. And yet still, to us, explored every angle, absorbed every fact, back. We all have those games we return to amount for months or years, coming back not to reignite the neurons that first absorbed this exhaustive knowledge you have of it. However, like a museum of the past, and then leave, My greatest fascination in all of this are reason or another are best experienced only once playthroughs. There's a few different reasons but the most straightforward examples to talking about puzzle plus some other genre, Puzzle games are a part of a genre I like games where the primary thing limiting you where the way you progress is by gaining it. solving a puzzle is not knowing how to to solve every single puzzle in a game, game developers aren't stupid, so they've Mosa Lina is a randomly generated puzzle game. set of levels and told to try and find a solution. inhuman precision in a relatively imprecise game, the act of actually solving a level set. Instead jungle, some unfair, untamed beast. Many purely entirely towards enthusiasts, making their puzzles number of esoteric options could be the solution, In terms of simplistic puzzles, shitty with the simple solution of making so many puzzles them, continuously and forever. And yet, still, not extensively long, and irreversibly Not even forgetting over time truly changes quick playthrough, and even though it had I remembered essentially nothing, the problem instead of figuring them out. Taking these bits works I've built from my first playthrough, even before and know I can do it again changed was me exploring chambers and reliving past However, with the proliferation with the widespread growth of consumer-grade tools the power was given to small teams or even One undercurrent in the topic of replayability in costs 10 dollars and you get 30 hours of gameplay or a game that could be played potentially forever that offer is being made with the However, more and more these days, there are them. Most of these games, from the perspective but some are simply meant to be one single, whole example of this. Developers are given a theme one entire game before the time runs out. As their singular game is, a sort of sampling of their toes into any game that catches their There are many games, too, that serve as small releases by the developers themselves. One a game released to itch.io entirely which turns all of the mechanics of Celeste The any% speedrun for this game is 15 seconds bit under 8 minutes. Compared to the monolithic this game was meant as a fun little getaway, Landfall, the studio behind Totally Accurate examples of gag games. Starting from they've released or changed something and first gag game was Supertruck, a mix between having time only move when you move in the they released Totally Accurate Battle Zombielator, having you travel around the world attempting This game in particular is near and dear to on it to document it, as the game is no longer its contents are pretty meager, and is mostly vibe. The next year came Totally Accurate in 2 weeks as a parody of the battle royale are profitable and started genuinely working It's a rare and appreciated thing to and styles forged by specific companies and not necessarily designed to Another in the genre of single-use games are video While most games are a big space that you take one experiential games are more like a hallway. odds with each other, for the simple don't really have stakes in this world. There's act cautiously or not just steal everything occasionally limit the player's freedom in order tries to tell a deeply affecting story, In that way, the player and the character they're video games as a product. The player represents provide, being this amazingly stimulating toy media simply isn't. On the other, the character a world with real stakes and depth and meaning character, the more that these worlds Most games do an awkward compromise between then breaking them up with cutscenes, allowing without us being able to actually affect them. In without sacrificing player freedom. However, it story itself. One of the most common complaints when the story is made irrefutably important. our playthroughs will always have some change. What these experiential games do is The game is structured entirely around the story, us being the one that actually does the actions interface with the world in a way unlike any other replay. It lacks the convenience of a movie or gamey video game. However, replayability isn't has been used deridingly for years now, describing around in, but these often become some of the Firewatch is a game I've already spoken about in the game impacts you because of the fact that you of Henry and his wife, Julia, someone he meets and on-set dementia. After being unable to take care after her for the rest of her life, you see an with nothing left, with everything you Firewatch, as a story, is about escapism. Shoshone get to see in the story, and it serves as plot of the game is largely conspiratorial, broken up by moments of deep suspicion and but the first part of the game is the most of it, the gameplay is just the life of and talking to Delilah, another lookout The game does its best to give the feeling of including in the ways you navigate it. waypoints or other UI to direct you to the gameplay loop of Firewatch is navigation, with each new task Delilah sets you out the lookouts before you, little tidbits about forest is given just as much character as Henry or more not just about our two main characters, but Most narratives in other mediums use the idea understanding and the character's. Even some video main character doesn't to build tension. However, as viewers of different perspectives on different simply the eyes and limbs of the main character, behavior at the beginning sooner than Henry, we're very first strange instance, Delilah seemingly understanding and suspicions are guided by Henry's We're taken, revelation after revelation, through of it ourselves instead of as an outside observer. beginning of the game seemingly missing, finding breaking into a government site that seems to you find a wave receiver, you sneak out Henry are in the same position, stuck in As our fabric of reality becomes unstable, so are convinced that someone, something greater than themselves. Around 1/3rd into the fire in the middle of the night. This fire happening before all of the biggest, craziest day. Measures are made to suppress it, to and only continues to grow and grow Just like your paranoia, just like Henry's former consuming. Firewatch, the game, is burning to the this grand conspiracy, was nothing more a war veteran with PTSD, trying to Through all of this paranoia we've inflicted on what we've been left with is an escapist life of this forest, only for it to be story comes largely through the fact that we Through exploring its depths, wandering around on its cliffs, its marked locations, Shoshone with history stretching back much further Every moment of your charmed life with Julia and rocks and water and life. The ground human signs built and placed only memories made and words exchanged and Nothing besides reality itself could no media could cast such an explorable, filled with man-made routes and ecosystems, all if you want, choosing to stay behind. Shoshone a place separate from the real world, an absolute reality right in front of our eyes. An There is no real reason to replay Firewatch. To would be to make this experience less real, more secrets, find out what each dialogue answer at its base price on Steam, is 20 dollars. Its you for hundreds of hours, and yet, it will it has been far more memorable than In the search for infinite enjoyment, that more is not all. If a game gives you one you through twisting, unfamiliar hallways, Manifold Garden is both a puzzle game if you could call it such a thing, around in order to solve puzzles and move times by infinite copies of the island you're forcing you to fall through infinite space The rushing sound of wind while falling, in accidentally running off a cliff or going too simultaneously has no bounds and is still limited only be 5 seconds from the nearest piece of land. are no hazards, no risk, not even significant The entire game, from head to toe, is obsessed UI to crowd the screen and as few instructions new just by how presently obvious at no point, becomes incredibly complex, some creative problem solving. No hurdle is making the puzzles more of a means to stimulate The game consists of 7 different chapters, all garden on each plane of gravity and one more the moments just after completing each section, It is possible to walk the entire game from nearly every game's world is broken up that this isn't a real world, Manifold Garden And yet, the game constantly reminds you that The level design itself is as unnatural as concrete, angular structures with the only and buttons. Gears are shown in far machinery powering everything, but no answers The final chapter, after you've finished the garden up until this point, you would need that you would plant, growing the tree on each plane of gravity, but in the final you get one more seed to plant. This flocks of birds and a rainbow hue coloring one more thing sprouts alongside the city: a way to see something you haven't seen anywhere else Turning back shows an endless wall, the Where you're moving to, now, is an entirely character in this game was to reach the but for one purpose and one purpose only: to into the nothingness as long as you'd like, but there's only one thing left What you're met with, eventually, is an all melting in with each other. Structures forming and this collapsing universe around you. You're the dimensional bubble entirely, viewing it from from infinite, to many, to 4, to 3, to 2, to 1, The first time I saw this ending, I was completely This ending is absolutely emotionally impactful, of a building tension and stakes that is finally games, in most cases, still delivers a solid literally everything, but Manifold Garden to give a comprehensive analysis of the game you need to replay it. Many, many times. However, second and third and fourth and fifth time, The game, as you might expect, has no voiceover is some sparing context given to the game. One and specifically, its song names. Rather whatever aesthetics it may have, nearly every in multiple different contexts. "Indra's Net" "Bloom", "Raymarching", and "Refraction" refer ideas like "Petrichor", "Sky and Water", the creation of our own Some songs refer to other works, like "House non-euclidean space, and "Tetrominoes", but notably also literal building blocks, means With every recurring playthrough I had of the it only became clearer to me how intentionally simultaneously designed to suck you in, but to these monolithic indications of something assets the moment they were re-examined. It in this world created the game, just a There is no main character in Manifold Garden. themselves, and so, the only logical idea is given eyes and a means to explore this world. wherever you wish, you have no real freedom or stimulates you other than progression, and it beating Manifold Garden, you have been given the The achievement you get for beating the game itself collapsing in front of you. That leaves the And, to me, the answer is fairly obvious. We're into ours. The satisfaction of the game comes with actually being allowed to leave. To transcend back And, yet, William seemed to understand that the There is more in the game, specifically one game actually has to say. Throughout your first a door that you have no ability to access. You but you just keep going forward, through the end of the game entirely. If you feel you might go back into the game, and start you find something. Almost immediately and in the next room, you find a door locked by As you keep going, you find more and more hidden chapters of the game entirely, and so, a question the end of the game without growing a single smooth experience of the game proper, this route scouring every tiny little piece of every game-wide problem solving, all to get to the This route, seemingly, was made intentionally up after 3 or 4 hours of being lost and found necessary to figuring it out, meaning basically unlike the smooth experience of the base game, Instead of a steady progression, you zip from one some solutions have you boringly go in and out It feels weirdly punishing instead of rewarding, That "Transcended" achievement is not the and PS4 shares the exact same list except for 1 additional one on the PC. of the time because they tend to reflect the from funny to serious to absurd, but Manifold Some are run of the mill, like "Thinking with to another game, but most of them are things level. Color Change, change the color of a cube, through a portal, Discover Hydroenergy for using Tree. Each of these achievements, in fact almost going through the main route. You must do all of Achievements in games tend to either be a of your way for, but that latter category of course, the achievement for beating the in contrast to the tone of the rest, is, "The Game so out of place for me appears to be intentional, people who want more out of this experience Even further, in the Steam release, one more other achievements, with the name, "What does it or rather, serving as some meta representation With every recursion, every new journey through nothing new, it was a reinforcement of the game's universes we create, of the flimsy nature of what barrier between character and player, places in a universe stripped of plot or any idea There is no illusion given, no world that is bare in the very first playthrough. You are world is William Chyr. This is an art piece and by the nature of it, it's a representation of their entirety. Boiling its message down, sifting in your mind. A place where your only purpose is is no longer existing inside of it. It's a world I had analyzed many things before, made videos life from in my mind, some way to translate very first game I made a conscious decision and the first thing that happened with that my decision to do so. It was both funny as Nowadays, I know that when I choose to analyze I'm sucking the life from it, turning it into a I'm giving words to the ghost of my former words in the present, immersing the viewer in a ideas and feelings and collapse them, tailor them something nice and digestible. I'm taking the abstract space constructing my entire lines and possibilities, and turning them When I cover a game I used to cherish, Five Nights at Freddy's, Super Mario Galaxy, to my childhood, thousands of memories and revisit these games to understand why I loved and then to finally leave them behind. I feel a because I know that my feelings will no longer be It's nice in spirit, to make so many more people but I'm not you and you are not me. In statue that attempts to translate my passion views. I got the game's custom font from and talked about its themes for about 19 what's left of my passion. Manifold Garden is