The person who writes down the thing has tremendous like blue. when you're a little bit of could take Nietzsche from, you know, 120 years best tweeter of all time. yeah, exactly. There are certain like just over and over in history. Tell me about that. a generative AI tool where you feed it an Five years from now, you know, we'll be sitting all changed. You heard it here first. in an interview that I thought was fascinating to build peace. And you said that you wrote me about rage. It was the, it was the specific event Um, and it was the, it was the onset of COVID if you remember the banner headlines about basically masks. The prediction was all the was that period actually where the hospitals And so, and then there was just this like there were people in the White House like masks. Like, oh, there was like this competition. like crazy thing. Um, and then, um, and then at hospitals, um, in New York. de Blasio, uh, put on a call. Could people in hospitals? And it's like front page wall and I was just like, all right, this is it. Yeah. This is ridiculous. Yeah. Right. And topic in like American culture, right? Which build things? Um, and we could have a long reached a point where we're, you know, looking of the national productive spirit. Was it Hemingway, was it Hemingway said writing, letting the blood spread out of the page. my, my version of that. Where were you? What You were at home? It was the beginning of get the sense of you're a real night owl. You just go to So that was at the beginning of COVID. So office at that point. the office, you know, during, during the day. room at work at home and I had this, you know, and it was like, not or group, I can. So, started. hours a day on zoom calls. And I like had body. Yeah. It stopped working out. And so happening. And I was, you know, I felt terrible I felt terrible because our companies were Um, and so it was kind of during that whole me, if it's, yeah, the writing, it'd be, it'd late at night. So what happened? So you sit And then I get the sense that that piece wasn't write it and then you ship it. Yes. Hopefully, when you say it wasn't edited, No, that's just from research. Normally, when oh. Well, you have said like a decade ago is that you don't really And then I just vaguely remember you saying right after. We did you think, I think the key, at least for me, people, like, what a lot of people do when a very different voice than how they talk, stilted and unnatural and, and, and for, at best form of their writing is when they're Conversation with them. So I figure like if out onto the page, like that's as good as it's kind of, it's kind of that now, you know, format, so it's an easier, it's an easier Well you're your best I think, I, I believe that's feel that. Yes. A little bit of energy. Yes, energy. Yes. Exactly. Does that happen a lot? of my writing, like I don't, and you know, like to be much more professional about this. all these, you know, interviews and seen your the professional writers have these systems was it Alberto Echo book at one point about catalog system. have any of that. Right. And so it's just people all day. Basically stuff is showing mass. Um, and it basically, it's a two part put, put out an outline as fast as I can. as I can. So I just tried to get the structure pass. for your writing. The reason that it's surprising about an idea, they just get to it. an go even faster. So that first phase, I'm trying points out. And I don't want to slow down by trying to turn them all into prose. novelist would have or something like that. points. I sort of think in terms of bullet if I can list the 15 or 20 key points, then at this point, for me to be doing this at long enough where I have a bunch of stuff And so I try to put it all down. And then some sort of sensible order. or was that an emergent property as a sort of the, I mean, that was the, I mean, You're like, it's to build. Well, it's got it for what I, you straightforward, punchy, right. It's got to I, I'm like, I'm trained, part of this is the whole art of marketing is like, you have world is awash with media of, of every kind. that they want to get, so it's gotta be like I just, I wanted to broaden out, you know, historically as software, we have to recapture um, and that we sort of a drained out of our So tell me about do you fit that in? Because I was looking published most recently. Yeah, like 30 minutes sections that I want to hear about, but you How do you actually build that into So one is, um, I, I have a very, I have a twist, um, in my career and in the following to talk to all day just in my day job, tend Um, and, and specifically the, the founders, the, the tech founders who kind of get all to like get in the room with us. Like they, but they tend to be the leading people in that, that, that they're talking about. you know, kind of conversations with them. to explain themselves as best they can. Cause us to understand what they're doing. Cause what they're doing. just, they, they just tell us everything. we didn't even sign NDAs. They just like come so, um, and then I've got, you know, the ones got all the ones my partners meet with that the notes from all the ones that, you know, who's a specialist in topic X. that's not obvious. Um, so that's part of every day. I've always been like this. I just, I have on your phone, iPad, sort of everything. pods are probably the single biggest technological kid that like actually really mattered. books, um, and podcasts and interviews and probably two to three hours a day. And it's, to bed at night, all the drive time, like else is going on, I'm always listening, listening What's your podcast? To audiobook ratio. So rabbit hole on something that I'm, that I'm interviews. And, and then, oh, the other thing for this now 'cause the tech, tech tope stuff Um, and so, you know, more and more on like to speech. And I use this thing called natural and in fact, Apple's actually producing audio spectacular. It's like, it's really starting Um, And so if I'm down the rabbit hole, I'm Um, if not, I'm, I generally am trying to I try to get back to audio books as much as books are my opportunity to really learn a about. aside 10 or 20 hours of audio time for, you that, I can really go deep on it. that you like doing on audio books versus you fairly indifferent to the trade offs So for non fiction, I am trying to actually actually like over the summer got my whole like it worked on all this And I might be Probably shouldn't admit to that. Of course which is actually generally true But in practice, But then look, the other part of it is just, you know, it's reading online material of try to, my, my general method is to try to stuff that is super current, uh, or it's stuff Um, and so what I'm trying to do is not read, anything that's from yesterday through to all that stuff out. And so I'm trying to be current is talking to people who are currently right? the fire hose on Twitter. Um, and then for almost all books, but I kind of go back and I'm either listening to like a book on usually Or some new demand that I'm trying to learn, happening in AI today. chats? Like you are the group chat king, and chats is very interesting. you know, these days for people to be like, compared to real world and all this. And I actually think like, there's some truth of that is also very true. Which I think you you're on a chat app with or in a group chat every day, every day, right? you know, basically communication. So I've got, I don't know, some set of friends across is. limited for obvious reasons. And then, in which every discussion could happen fully Um, and you know, and actually I, you know, along with a lot of people. So where Quran effectiveness of that? Right. I mean, he's, relevant. When I started being active on Twitter, 2012, you know, not that early, but 2012, you know, like incredibly naive assumption. that you're thinking about on Twitter. Turns the hard way, you know, sort of several times. in a time, you mentioned teamers work. So know, basically this is a private private And it's just like we live in an era for better think the level of public lying is like, you time high. Well, to that this would be. You know, if insofar as you can actually get interesting things out of truth, how would you think about curating Because there is something that happens, like and eight people who have high trust. And sudden you get stage fright and all of a sudden like a, it begins to be a performance or something And I wonder how, how would you think about best people of it. And then I maybe put an orthogonal is this well known sort of concept of group of studies in this, you, you put a group together direction. for some period of time. They all end up much so, you know, there's a stereotypical example like shooting guns on the weekends, but aren't Yeah. A year later, they're going to be like, second amendment. Yeah, exactly. Or whatever, members. Exactly, right? Because, because existing tendencies reinforce each, you know, social proof effect, where They kind of all And so I, I think part of it also is it, it's do this. Well, it's actually several or many. to have a whole bunch with, with people with different perspectives, very different inclinations. of, is what you kind of watch them all and in their, in their own direction. And then, or locked in or down a rabbit hole, you know, one and kind of reset the dynamic. to your point on selecting things is like, party. Every person matters. It's very easy. easy to have a dinner party where nobody's, is that interesting? easy to have a dinner party where there's right? It just makes it all about themselves. social protocol of like, so if you'd say you and everybody kind of realized everybody, one other person shouldn't be there. like, you got to make sure the other person You know, it's funny The last 10 years of reading your writing, this deep drive that you have to be prolific That is core and it's back to that rage. Like but at the same time, this public image that you've been around and you sort of have gone and starts. That's true. Yeah. Yeah. Very know, this is maybe a general problem also You know, if, if, if I were like a full time just representing myself, you know, there get involved in that I find very exciting like I, you know, I represent a firm. I represent I represent all the companies we work with. in public kind of going through this, but where I want to be true to myself and I always and I want, you know, we have a point of view We want to get that point of view out. But that. I have professional responsibilities say pick my topics, but also pick my methods process, for example. So the current arrangement I respect them enormously, uh, for helping an active tweeter, right. to get in trouble on that. Um, but I am allowed can write essays. Right. Number one is just like fully articulate yourself. Right. Um, can take excerpts out of an essay or out of a single, like the way you can take a single It's like, it's, it's harder to do that out because they're actually is this, people don't can actually see the surrounding context. it's, it's essays and conversations is what, I miss the Straussian days when your Twitter was very, yes, yes, there's real signal there. This is the, uh, and then I would literally pieces on me about my Twitter likes. And again, like Marc Andreessen, private citizen, that But, you know, we're representing, you know, Like I can't, I can't do that. I can't put explain to their employee bases why Mark likes because you, you are kind of a meme Lord. the world. Was it something like that? Yeah, But more what I thought was a statement of the wasn't provocative enough because I thought the world was going, but the thing that made Um, was that was the, that was sort of in know, we, we had just started the firm and we're looking around and it's just like, mobile's SAS is taking off and like all these things newcomers and broadband and mobile broadband Social networking. And it's just like, wow, it's just this like explosion of an option. of went, you know, kind of really went hit central to everything. And how did that piece Like what was the Genesis, the, the big bang No one's written on a frustration. Maybe it's pattern here. Yes, exactly. So, so again, It didn't take very long, but it was, it was and sort of building up the thesis and kind Um, and then it was just frustration, it was frustration of the daily headlines that were overly negative. Um, and, um, you know, people And, and, you know, look, I, I, I, part of frustrated when I think people don't understand it, that actually, that, that I, if, if I because I haven't explained it, and I should Um, and so, um, it's up to people whether Um, and so, um, yeah, it was to try to basically a thesis for, um, you know, for, for actually and then outside the tech industry, uh, you understand what's happening. about your approach to distribution that that 10 years later, you write, it's time to build. that you have. Um, so we, um, you know, we, we just assumed it's the world thing. the wall street journal, but we talked to and I would say by, yeah, so 2020 was, was thought, you know, we might as well, like, were like, nope. like major pubs and they were like, nope. um, and it was actually a catalyzing moment I, like everybody else, I had tracked the kind of mainstream press towards tech, you But I still was at that point, like holding you know, the venue for like serious thought that was when they convinced me, they convinced in retrospect, probably what I should have audience much faster. isn't news to you, but dude, you invented Well, and yes. And I played some role before so the tweet storm, well, it's okay. So the say and you know, this 140 character thing Yeah. And Elon hadn't come along yet. So you were the early days of that like? Probably more things that I want to say. And so I'll tweets. And then of course it was an enormous, let's say half serious and half comic, half Right. Which is like, you know, you're doing medium. And I was like, I, I, you know, I that's, that's what they're there for. There that just seem to recur over and over in history. out of fashion, right? Uh, and so there, there right? And, and so the, you know, these, these, like half of what Nietzsche's output was like and all these people would write it as aphorisms. self, there was like a self has like a, you And at some point they got corny and people witty little asides and stuff like that. It tweets, right? Twitter is aphorisms as a service, but it's continuity there, right? And it's actually from, you know, 120 years ago and put him of all time. yeah, exactly. He'd have a, great banner image know. God is dead. Yeah, exactly. He was great the other one is the essay. Right. And I, I never really read essays growing up because, it was, you know, basically all the serious, with like long, you know, long form narrative Um, but you know, there were prior eras where lot of older, if you read books, by the way, or 200 years ago, like A lot of books in those of essays, right. You know, today they were like a hundred cha a hundred small chapters. And then a lot of books were serialized or, articles and then they get rolled up into of short form narrative pros thing, but then century and became like a mass market thing, the format everybody wrote in. you know, eight or 10 chapters, 200, 300 pages. literary academic thing that nobody really And then all of a sudden the essay is back, these, basically they're these, oh, then my Like when I was a kid, it's like poetry is in the old days. And it's like some, you know, you know, normal people don't read. And then you know, poetry, right? Yeah. Right. Um, So it turns out these literary forms basically And then, and then it turns out the, the internet of meta medium for all of these. Ultimately, um, sort of communicates sort of information is the internet is capable of representing visual art, right. of a sudden, right, aphorisms and essays and blog posts and rap lyrics are just like explosively, know, primary means of communication. blog? lot to say. Well, actually a lot, a lot of okay. Frustration. A lot of that was, uh, Um, and so there's just, you know, there's. bad advice in the world generally, but specifically advice. that maybe have not actually been through talking about. And for better or for worse, the mistakes and I've seen it all. And I've that you make at a startup. to write some of this stuff down. What'd you having Venkatesh Rao around? Breaking Smart Smart. He was our first and only philosopher I would like to do again. I, I just, we've again. I've only ever met, I think I'd say I probably my life who I would describe as basically, R I A L, lateral. Um, uh, in that, and I actually Srinivasan, and it's Peter Thiel. very different, you know, they're very different But with what they all have in common is when think about it the way everybody else does. And so as a consequence, like I'll spend as of those as, as, as I possibly can. Because thinker, but they're, they're much better two things. Um, one is they're just really Um, and so they're, they're able to, to sort kinds of knowledge together. Um, Uh, but the it's not even habit, it's just how they are. if, what I find is if I spend time with them, I just, I always think like, okay, well, you the way they are, like, how would I think Um, and so, you know, being with them over okay, when somebody says X, like never just know, okay, there's another way of looking a certain plan of action. Right. Or somebody Like let's come at it from multiple angles wouldn't you just hire like 10 insane lateral hundred grand a year and just have them around? fruit. You have the internet. Like, why don't It the, the practical objections for it would know, if they're so smart, shouldn't they No, but it's smart along a different vector, billion dollar startups, but he's doing this He's lateral thinking. He's getting you out of thought. This just seems like the easiest why people good idea. It's the group dynamic thing. It's the room. like, it's just every person in the room changes by what they have to say? Because these guys, wait to hear what these guys say, even though And then why are they not in the room? They're people in the organization are like, wait room. I should be in. So it's just a, it's a good challenge. Um, yeah. I, I mean has we, we did. had him, but like, is that ever, has anybody Peter Thiel totally does it. He does that but I will tell you, I mean even, it's a good causes problems. his broken glass, you know, and then there'll, be jealousy, like, you know, he has, you know, ear. I don't know. So it's, it's, there's but it's a good, I'll, I'll think on that. of course the obvious one, you know, the, of has looming over their head right now is. there be an LLM in every room, right? And should there be like a, a, you know, a bot That's well, you can see, of course, nobody of a single instance of anybody doing that. You know, actually voice, voice recognition disambiguation is getting really good. So transcripts or group conversations, which have it be weighing in, you know, five years doing it. does your background as a software engineer up in your writing? That's a good question. genre. Um, you write software code as, as, I got a D minus in computer science and actually... hour, 15 minutes late and I got a D minus failed the class, but the professor definitely minus. like break nightmares? I actually, you know, you were the reason was in North Carolina, and I went to these you not, I promise I'm not just blowing smoke, why would I go to a lecture with some random room, and then I ended up finding YouTube, thing that sent me on this journey of saying, then I was like, wait, this is a two way medium. And that was like the greatest thing in the for me. Yeah. Well, it didn't seem fun like are still hanging out there and we still have that into account. system that doesn't take this into account. to, to, to either of the, uh, of those aspects. and I, uh, I think this is a very interesting of writing a novel and building a bridge. and start by saying it's not the same thing you know, it's not the same thing as building a bridge, you would never want to drive on that has ever shipped in the history of the Right. want to do for the Brooklyn Bridge. It's not that kind of civil engineering, which not just because software people are like want to get things right. it. That is just missing from things like building bridges isn't creative in a way, is gonna be an initial design. The implementation fall over. creating all the way through. And the creative Like the software actually has to work structurally. like painting a painting, which is like different, different, it, it, it, it needs to be a form are very good at doing that. hybrid thing. So, so the way to think about and qualitative. wrote a book called Hackers is that. Um, and then the specific form of right? same way that you would write a poem or the Right. It's structured writing. And so it, and so forth and say, you know, the little but yeah, you do write it. you comment it. Right. And so you, you actually Yes. And then what, what's happened is programming getting higher and higher level over time, more out of the details of like how the computer of higher level abstractions. more productive. And now you've got a giant new coding, the old coding interface was your where all the bugs are and you try to fix got your code and then you've got a chatbot. your code and like giving you like real time got this wrong. Right. Um, or the chat bot you're giving it feedback, you know, you idiot, you've got this concept. pair programming, where you'd put two coders they could talk to each other and kind of pair. And that was always a rare thing because. just going to have pair programming happening And by the way, I think this hasn't happened happen for every other form of writing. Yeah. writing and everything else in the future, to be working in that kind of format. dialogue going with an AI at the same time are, are, are in charge of the overall that Silicon Valley's contribution to writing arguments. to thinking of writing a structure. Well, of outlines, um, it's because code effectively yourself to go to learn the code? I taught of a book before I owned a computer. yeah, when I was like 10, when I, because of hit adolescence, right? As the computer discovered computers, computers are all over They didn't like exist yet. rolling, ultimately, later on, ultimately, when I was like, you know, nine, 10, 11, you hit, it was like when Apple became a big thing cover of everything at the time, uh, you know, Uh, and then, you know, I'm like 10 or whatever. like, you know, a hundred miles where I was. was like, learn how to code. It's like, okay, all day, all morning and all night, you know, in the back reading the book and writing code. I, this school, this school, there was not Um, so I, I don't even think I kind of schooled pretty standard, a rural, a middle of nowhere. So not, not, not, not a but, um, but, um, uh, yeah, no. have a systems orientation to things. systems and structures and, and, and, you people who don't just want to do that, right? just like an actuary or account or something element are able to do that. So what's the binding constraint on you writing no, no, no, I'm telling you, actually, that's eating the world really fast and you wrote be So, yeah, so I've been, yeah, this is a perpetual this is a perpetual project. Like I shouldn't right now. So nice. Well, writers in history who do really well by writing And then there's other writers who it just Frankenstein, she was like on a trip in Switzerland just poured out. So, I think that time, I'm constraint. There we go. Performance. Performance. I just. inspiring. I deal with, I go 100 students excuse that they possibly can. And I, it's not the best. Okay. I'll tell you the thing topic of everything. back, I was spending a day with a guy named um, he's a television film writer. Um, Deadwood he's, you know, a legendary guy who's like living, he's one of the best living fiction Um, and I spent the day with him and, um, gave me one of those looks. Um, and he's like, it never even occurred to me to write fiction. but every time I make my list of things that like I need to try to do that. you could write a TV show or a movie. Yeah. occurred to me, but it was one of those, it like, okay, if that guy's telling you, you to try it. So I do have an idea. Here's what I really want to write. There want to write. I want to write a Romanticlef. which, um, all of the names and dates and happens in it actually happened in real life. or memoir, right? Um, and so there are various would be the, if you've seen the show, Ray fixer. Uh, the guy who goes around and like everything screwed up Hollywood. but the legend has it is that every single that actually happened in Hollywood at some you know, 30, 30 years now in tech, like I've write it. and I would never like, you know, basically or in any way that's identifiable, but I've one of my, one of my crazy ideas is like basically ever seen and then, and then weave it into So anyway, if, if, if maybe this, if, if I it will have actually happened. You heard Exactly. Well, this is funny because this noticed about you. Which is, on one hand, desire to be prolific and in public. mean, look, the nature of what we do, it turns know, sometimes they get really happy with Um, you know, look, the drama in the tech You know, you know, when I became involved cute and fun, right? coverage for all the new products were like, boy, this product isn't as good, but maybe you know, it's just like every say, it's just area of human life and all the big issues Two write a book that is like Tim Wu's book about about what you're saying about the different book. Next thing, how much internal writing So what form does emails, a lot of, uh, text, a lot of the art we, we, we process lots of written material, long form here. If I'm writing something long initiative, like, or like, uh, or like a topic And I'm trying to kind of write down in a are the different considerations and here's that once in a while. So that's like an internal your actual writing there. Do you have a process take a different form when you're doing that? a certain way than, than when it's in public? think it's the same thing. Same thing. I actually If I'm writing that, it's because something right? And it's either there's a problem we to jump on. it follows probably some long period of discussion around here for a while and then it's time of an artifact. Well, by the way, one of the is the kind of thing where I feel like everybody actually act on it, or maybe people don't down the thing has tremendous power. in an organization or in the world, there down the thing. Um, and so I see, we see this one of the ways you find like the up and comers wrote down the plan? And that doesn't mean that they had all the their thoughts that actually have the energy communicate it in a written form. Like that, that that was, I would always kind of assume of people who will actually write anything know, with that requisite level of like comprehensiveness I is low status. if I had this in my career planning or not, to part of my standard advice to kids, which who voluntarily like takes notes and then then you have to fairly represent everything You have to fairly represent everything. I the other thing is say that some rando wanted written email, I would say that the chances Now, I don't want to like flood your inbox my goal. extremely well written emails that came to expertise, well written, chances you're going Yeah. Yeah. It's very, it's very rare. What's inefficiency or there's a broader topic here, spend all day long and something badly written, I think all the time. If I see an old book, book had to be written. And then in order to write the entire book down. I mean, rabbis hand, but that's how books used to be. Now, V, send it off, and then you can send it to And so it's like, it's gotten too easy to Exactly. So, so here's, here's the paradox. that we are absolutely awash in bad content. bad tweets, bad books, bad laws, bad text spend all day long just drowning in bad content. the other hand, like it ought to be, these to be a giant explosion of high quality content to also be a wash in like the most amazing entire lives in every genre. the good stuff? Yeah. Like where are the, authors, screenwriters, novelists who are at much higher speed? I mean, is trying to create those people. in some sense has created a flowering of new and I still just feel like at the absolute more. Exactly, right. Because all those people And it just, it seems like a weird inefficiency. Why Is that why? Yes. It's a nice firm color. You're sitting in an office, it had to be some into the H E X code and This at the time. So at the time we were doing like a lot of com, a lot of graphics, computers had some eight, eight bit color, eight bit see all 256 colors and it's kind of like take They could have been salmon. Yeah. Right. to be something that like actually stood out gonna be blue, red, purple, green. I don't the, by the way, I also, I didn't quite get The other thing I did was I don't like reading are a little sensitive to light. And so the, the backgrounds are always gray. And so it to get a lot of black for that. But what I, was dark mode. 'cause the displays weren't good enough to back then was hard to read 'cause you didn't quite get the, you didn't, didn't have screen What's your read on why there's been such At this point, you're asking very fundamental invented the internet. where I could ask these questions. one you just asked is, why are there so low, which is a human condition question. the devil his due. So like, I will tell you counter, a few things where I think comments well. Um, and I think those guys figured out Steve and Alexis figured out like a formula, like works like incredibly well, like. have been really positively surprised by YouTube this experience, but like for at least a lot a good job of surfacing quality contents bearing actually has gotten a lot better over the You need some sort of consciously calibrated way, LLMs also should help with this because and so you, people should, this is probably should be running, you know, if you're building evaluate it. ask LLMs, like, is this text good? But you emotional loading on the text? The LLM could or happy or whatever. And you could say, you say bury the ones that are angry. um, on look on the systems that, um, you know, you just have a, you know, you just, you just the bad stuff, the missing feature that doesn't didn't weren't able to get in. a writing layer, the commenting layer on top it. We hadn't actually in the original version the idea was basically, the idea basically an asynchronous medium. reading it at different times at different we might be on there at the same time. Um, you might've had an interesting thought and your thought to that, right? in the format of the page itself, you would But we had, we had this idea that there should a commenting system overlay on top of the right? at a web page and either us at the same time that we're both looking at it, each of us that, that, that everybody else can see. And commentary. I call the, uh, the annotation server. Uh, of all the annotations on top of all the web to bite off. Cause the annotation server was web. Um, and so, and then there was all this UI that we never got to. Um, but there, there there is a on earth too. Um, there are, there's writing environment. Online writing morphed in a way that's different ago. forum now in which politics plays out. Is time, that was not the case. Um, and if you had political discussions on the internet, but it was, like, isolated in, like, some about that. if you were in, like, I don't know, like, you know, San Francisco Bay Area Usenet group, topics. It was just, like, a, it was just, Um. It would have been a considered rude to Um, and then it's a switch was flipped in where all of a sudden it's just like everybody. And I think part of that was just an external went into a different political realm. Um, not, not just the, the, something external Like in the Martin Gury sense. Yeah, exactly. And so therefore everything changed. And so But I, but I also think, look, the other thing central. Like the, the internet just became about everything and learn about everything And so part, part of it is I think the dog central to people's lives and then we became one of the things that one of the things that So if the internet became central and it lies, And all internet content was going to become of what basically has happened. And I like was, yeah, maybe just, that was as big a shock believe it was happening when it was happening Do you ever read for style or do you only content? Um, in practice, I would say I only fun. I read reading for content and I come style. It, it is amazing how much it still example, like, but I, like, I read a lot of Teddy Roosevelt biographies, but Ed Morris Yeah. And like Carol probably still is maybe like one notch below Carol, which is, which Right. And, and just the. This, the stylistic to another one right now that I won't, I won't like, you know, it's, it's very good. on a different president right now, but, um, fall off is like dramatic. You just, you kind goes back to the LLM topic, right? Which is could be like that. things about style that Are really sentence word ever. The deliberate the deliberate Is it the vibrancy? computer science thing is a lot of for me. It's like, it's like everything flows exactly of time on each topic. Um, it has exactly the right words. It, it, it creates the exactly like incredible, it's, it's, it's actually is, you know, most of what I read, I would It's professional, but it's not, you know, level. But then every once in a while, I'll level, and it'll remind me that it actually it's just like, yeah, it's just like, that's, it. like, well, I got to go back to the work, is a lot more common artists, right? Like Like there are just certain people who are Elroy. Who's that? my god. All right, good. Okay, good. I'm glad is. Oh, so he's the, I think he's the greatest crime novels, but that's a little bit like Elroy El Elroy is writing a series of novels history myth. work is LA Confidential, um, which you may movie. Okay. , new World for me, Mr. Andreessen in la uh, it's a crime movie set in LA in these, all these great actors. I want to ask her, isn't it great? And then expansive. It's just like this incredible And, uh, in the 1950s, he wrote a recent novel he's writing, um, about the 1940s. older. Um, but, uh, perfidia is one of his thousand pages, incredible detail. Um, but Angeles the week after the bombing of Pearl they thought they were next, like in real Like they, they thought literally LA was like going to show up at any moment and like destroy into like an incredible, like a, just like Um, and so that was the, you know, that was was when the Japanese internment camp program potent, intense period of time. And he creates you read interviews with how he works, um, own a computer. he lives in the, he's like very deliberately he like, he still goes to the library and in the 1940s. I like that Yeah. Like you get a sense of like, okay, he does this. I think I'm finally seeing what it was like like 1860, like this is really what it was the stench and the, you know, and people desperately that you haven't that's a huge influence on you. I don't know. Maybe it's just, there's so I mean, by definition of science fiction is you're, you know, you've got novelists doing act, but in history, real people actually And like so many, like just incredible bananas, incredibly bad things happen in history. And decisions. Another good thing that David Milch drunk all the time. Right. been worked on on this. It turns out like uh, and back to the Kelowna era, people used they do today. Wow. And part of it was they roll out of bed and start drinking beer. the clock. And so, and then they wonder why all these horrible things would happen. And and be getting in all these. And it's like, you have to. the hand and like makes it clear what that that you can experience yourself. drugs like weed, wine, beer, how they influence I think they influence like the entirety of So I think, I think it was to start with, And so the classic example of this was the the cutover from alcohol to tea and then coffee. catalytic event. The, it was the chemical Uh, right. And then, and then actually led financial markets actually started around Lloyd's of London. So yes, I've heard an insurance it's, and so Lloyd's London was one of the It was literally just a group of people who would basically just like underwrite policies. was people would meet at coffee, coffee houses get together and, you know, American whaling People would be hanging out with the coffee Paris. Yeah. Right. Exactly. All the literary you know, revolutionary, you know, salons, got these kind of, you've, you've, you know, you know, there's some group of people who other and trying to figure things out. conclusions and activities. And if they're ever Yes, exactly. Right. Exactly. Exactly. three 15, you know, drink, have whiskey, snort like 2am starts Exactly. Right. Exactly. Well, or another on Benzedrine for 30 years, the amphetamine, um, essentially meth. Um, and, and, and it like over time, it actually like degrades Um, and then in our era, right? Um, in our but also we have withdrawn nicotine, which all these very interesting questions about levels. And there's a fair number of people of the decline in smoking. side effects, um, and then you're pulling if you're, if you're replacing nicotine with going backwards because you're replacing a So it's almost like you're reverting back was drunk all the time. like about green tea? Um, it's a, it's a, amount of caffeine. Um, if I drink a diet Died coke. Yeah, yeah. So I need a, I need I need to not let, if I, if I drink the amount skipping heartbeats. continuous. So how many of these do you have All the time. Oh really? Yeah. like you love this place. And the funniest put them on shelves. Yeah. like shelves made. I know I, I order books all the time. What's I just think it's an interesting thing that sort of emerged here. So basically when I, making money, I basically just decided I'm going to want to read. buy all the books, buy all the books. And up. And then, yeah, in theory I should, I I don't. So they just pile up. It's cool. keep the piles relatively. organized. a night owl. So you have this really cool do your writing. home office. Books, books, I don't know. Books, I, you know, I like listening to music, um, days. Um, so I like, I like, I like a lot especially I like a lot of classical music. of different kinds of, different kinds of been doing recently is on, on YouTube in particular, called Future Garage. get music that is like the right level of part of the brain to be stable but is not I really want to get in the mood. Are you No. I would get too frustrated. Okay. All right. Okay. Yeah. Same times yesterday. Yeah. It's great. Yeah. experience, it can't have a song with that the song. Or it starts to get old and then So yeah, something with like a consistent walking, working out influences your creativity? so. Really? I have all these friends who, really do that. Um, when I, when I, when I, Um, sometimes I'm on Twitter, but yeah, I, For me, like once I get my heart rate up going creative time. I don't think so. You know, hours a day, you know, he would walk eight And I think literally that's why his books is because he would just like write in his in a book and ship it out the door. What do think we could learn from your partner, Ben, he's an actual successful A real writer here. Okay. So now we get to, yeah, now we get to It actually becomes useful. Oh, this was all Ben, Ben has a, Ben has a number of, of, uh, father was a very successful, is a very successful So his, oh, so his father is a guy named David a very active political writer, activist. American politics because he was on the far of what was called the Berkeley Free Speech hippie movement and the anti war movement And then, uh, David actually was a fundraiser when they were like the, when they were like And then in the, in the news, so he was very a magazine called Ramparts, which was like in the, in the seventies, in the sixties and And so he was like a literate, he was, so was. was writing and he was writing books David went hard right. Um, and so he signed sort of moved further and further to the right And he's now like a very enthusiastic Trump done the whole arc. Um, and so Ben's, Ben's, One is Ben is as non political as you can his father is stay out of politics. And, and leaning into controversy and was always getting And so Ben's very nonpolitical by, by orientation, David was always writing, um, and has written, you know, an infinite number of, David's one series of like his, like, you know, assembled Oh, his autobiography is called Radical Son, this whole journey that he went on. That's up, um, you know, kind of with his father in the seventies wrote three bestsellers, And it was biographies of the Fords, the Rockefellers, And actually Ben was a research assistant Ben met, uh, uh, uh, uh, Bobby Kennedy Jr., Ben met him in the 1970s when Ben was like Bobby Kennedy was in the news for a lot of Um, so. So he just, he's just, yeah. So he's a literary family. Um, yeah. And then he, our company we did together, loud cloud. Um, say he had enough sort of assemble scar tissue, Um, and, uh, and that went really, and that This was one of the things I was thinking a lot of people who write like business books books of different kinds, but most of them But every once in a while you get one that And Peter's, Peter Thiel's book Zero to One About Hard Things is like that thing just you say they can like 27 languages now or What your actually, okay, I can tell you exactly what on a thing right now, I'm working on a big, the big thing, um, it'd probably be 30, 40 big, um, but, but I am, I am behind schedule. as the Kanye of blog post writers. I'm getting over there about behind schedule. It's first the entire interview. So I was, it was supposed I, I, I have a very high bar on this one. Wanted to rip. Yeah. And so, um, uh, I'm, imposed schedule. Um, and certain people around Um, but Ben said, what are you talking about? In other words, by the way, he's referencing Sure, sure, sure. I'm of different things. So what does that um, it's going to take the time it's going then it's going to be good when it comes out, be good. your writing be missing right now? Oh, so have it, this one's, this one is like, this argue for a philosophy, right? So, so on an about a very, a very important thing in the Um, and so, um, and it's, it's, it's on, it's Um, and, um, there's just, there have been time who have been thinking about it, writing society has been something that like a lot and I've read a lot of, you know, I've, I've lot of content there and there's a lot of And there's, you know, I'd say there's both both good and bad in society. Um, and so, For any, anybody who'd like knows all of that, I want them to think, okay, I may or may not the topic. it all. He's responding to the actual arguments skipping it or not paying attention to it. thought about writing Yeah. So, this one is, uh, yeah, so this is written, probably the biggest thing I've written. same. It's just the, you know, think, think kind of get my, get my own kind of head organized it's been kind of working through outlines, sort of bump it out all the points then start Um, and you know, kind of fill in, fill in, in on the hat and then start crafting, you Google docs. Uh, yeah, yeah. Right. At this And I've just like, I, I could go back and probably, I'm just not gonna cite anything. cite anything. I'm gonna make all kinds of not going to. Why? Um, 'cause I don't need actually care. Um, but I am gonna give a reading if you want Yeah, I'm gonna give a reading reading list, you would have documentation I, I, I claimed. Um, and then, um, yeah, then it's a manifesto, so it's a polemic, you know, it's intended to rally true believers, um, and energy to it. I've been reading a lot kind of get, get kind of into the right spirit. it's amazing. Yeah. This is one of those things. more manifestos. Like it's such a, you know, went anywhere. But if you look at the impact or like I read, reread the, um. Or, um, have you ever read the Futurist manifesto? Yeah. The, uh, Miriadi. Yeah. Um, of course, literary statement that captures the spirit of fascism. actually played a role. It was one of the was, it was sort of simultaneously artistic it, it, It was sort of political, um, except and things like that. predict, you know, again, it's like 1910 or have, you know, he'd have no way to predict, later, you know, even the people who are overtly the fact. When you ask for to get feedback on? you know, ego stroking. Yeah, um, Mark, this never read something like this. People make that's my main motivation. so several things I'm looking for. So one people mad? Um, especially for, for unintended, to make people mad, I want to know I'm going make them mad. mad in the past. Um, and then, um, that's you know, does it make sense? Does it convey honestly, you know, especially from people like, is it, you know, does it, does it move? is itty, is it stylistically good enough? Well, it's like the old, it's like the old you write your thing and then you take your And I'm always kind of thinking like that. hit hard enough upfront? Is it gonna keep, through? And it, it's really, you know, you written one of these things, you're too close You read it with fresh eyes. And so what do making people mad. So, so, uh, yeah, dialing know, like, you know, like I'm going for, so, you know, some of the feedback will be polemic or this is awfully, you know, and You know, sometimes the feedback is like, going for. Like, I'm not, I'm not trying to not trying to be the sort of, you know, 30, I'm trying to like, you know, it's all something in the middle of. if, yeah, David Milch weighing heavily on about for something like this, eight minute hits. That is not a bad idea. That is actually is a good idea. Exactly. point for the assist. That is a very good is a great example of like, and there are Um, but yeah, like that arguably was the one remember what it was. now makes possible, maybe there should be If you're doing a with energy, throw it in a film, eight minutes do pretty Well, and again, it's the circulation of mediums a thing, but they're not. Have you ever been No. I went to these a couple of times in college. it's just, it's a weird genre. genre because it's just like, you know, what films is like the minute you get into it, pullback, you know, kind of thing. And so Um, but there's your point, like there's something but I, I really feel like we're on the verge like, the LLMs, like the generative, you know, started working and it already works incredibly So it's like this step function thing from and it works incredibly well for helping on generating art. And we're sitting here in a year or two, there is going to be a generative will give you the short film. we're almost on the verge of that. And then, you could hand do that. You could use, you And you could do what you're talking about, do it myself, right. like, we're at this, but like, you know, as doing this most professional artists, you that this latent ability is there and we're it's hard for me to. from now, you know, we'll be sitting here changed because all of a sudden both verbal are, are able to express themselves so much How do you on Twitter? Yeah. You follow a lot of people. I follow lists. Yes. I do. I do use lists. Um, and another thing. The list used to be public. writing hit pieces on my lists, um, so I, But um, Elon thinks I'm a wuss by the way, Um, it's like, why do you care? Um, I'm like, like, I got people working for me. And I'm to the barbell idea. So basically my primary basically. specific for twitter. I'm looking for like now. And I'm looking for that from like basically can find. Um, and so, um, and so, so basically follows my, my rule is I follow on the basis Um, and then I block on the basis of a single and it's actually, this is actually the power are a fair number of people now who I, you they are geniuses, um, based on a single tweet. was just like, wow, like there's something and it will be like within 140, like there's, you're just like, okay, this person is really it is unbelievable. It takes two to three switched on and high IQ and has a variant Yes. Like three sentences. few characters, you know, that's very few. different combinations of words that you can have people who jump out. Right. Who it really those people. and horrible thing in the world, right? Like, about how horrible it is, but it's equally And so I'll unfollow on a tweet. I'll block And that, and so the overall follow list is you know, the world kind of coming at me. of lists that are more curated and then by I do is I, you know, they change, I change, You know, there are certain, you know, there agitated, you know, it's like, and they're it's like, okay, they're, they're doing something Last question. Tell me about p Marco. When I was, when I was in college, um, and at Illinois that I worked at, no, nobody had like a college kid. Um, and so, but my, my, was sort of famous, uh, that he had, he had He had his regular one, and then he had one is the one he actually read and it was, it was a little bit of like, okay, he's like two email addresses, but it was also a little a big, important guy email addresses. to say P market, cause it implied that I was the two email addresses and now everybody eliminated the utility of the whole idea of Well in there, that was Thanks Matt. Good. Awesome. Thank you, David.