- Prime rib is often of a holiday table. So today I'm gonna show you how to make the best garlic and herb crusted prime rib that is worthy of that coveted spot. This is an easy, no-fail recipe. And the meat is so tender and juicy, your guests will definitely be swooning. Now, similar to the turkey recipe I shared a couple of weeks ago, prime rib is up there in terms of intimidating recipes. Mostly because it is big and expensive, and you don't want to mess it up. But you guys nailed that turkey recipe and I am confident you are gonna do a fabulous job with So let me show you to make it. The first thing you'll want to do is take your prime rib out of the fridge two to three hours before It's a big chunk of meat and bringing it to room temperature will help to ensure that it cooks evenly. Now, when it comes to you have two options. Choice and prime. Prime cuts of prime rib and have beautiful fat marbling, which is what I have today. Choice cuts have slightly less marbling and are also slightly cheaper. On your prime rib, you'll also notice a fat cap. Make sure to leave at least for the best flavor. And with bone in prime rib, but the best thing to do is have your butcher cut off the bones, but then tie them back on. The bones act as a natural rack to keep the meat elevated while cooking and insulate the meat to keep it extra juicy. And you'll see at the end how easy it is to just snip the string and remove the bones without any extra work. For today's recipe, I've got a six pound prime rib, which will serve about But I've got tips on the website to help you figure out what size prime rib to buy. In terms of equipment you'll need, it's pretty simple. Just grab an oven safe pan like this cast iron pan. Of course, you could also use a roasting pan and a rack, but they're definitely not required. And then you'll need an so that you can cook the prime rib to the perfect temperature and not accidentally overcook it. But if you've got a probe thermometer or leave-in meat thermometer, those work as well. And lastly, you'll need a sharp carving knife, or chef's knife, to slice it up. If you made my turkey recipe a couple of weeks ago, this herb butter rubs And while prime rib is utterly delicious with just a simple salt and pepper rub, this garlic herb crust really takes it to that next level. So finely chop one teaspoon of rosemary and add that to a half a cup of butter that's been softened at room temperature. Then chop up one teaspoon of thyme. To remove the leaves of thyme, just slide your fingers down the stem and then use your knife to finely chop it up. And once that's done, add it to the butter as well. Next step, peel and I'm such a fan of garlic. And while I think six cloves is perfect for prime rib of this size, you know, I've also got no objections if you want to add one or two cloves more. To that, add one And make sure it is kosher salt and not table salt. And one teaspoon of black pepper. Use a fork to mash that all up so it's well combined, and nice and soft, and spreadable. And then set it aside. At this point, you can preheat your oven to 450 degrees Fahrenheit and then use a few paper towels to blot any moisture from the meat. This is a really important step because the drier the skin, the easier it will be to spread the butter all over it and the crispy the outside So slather garlic herb butter all over the prime rib with a very generous coating, and don't be silly and use a spatula. Get in there with your Now, if you do notice that you're having a hard time getting the butter to stick, it's likely that your prime rib is still cool and it's hardening the butter. Just soften the butter for five to 10 seconds in the microwave and you should have no problem. And once the prime rib is fully coated, just place it bone side down in your pan. I'm planning to make a Red Wine Au Jus to drizzle over the prime rib. So I'll add one sliced onion to the pan just to flavor the drippings. But if you plan to serve your prime rib with a horseradish sauce or another sauce, you don't have to add the onion. You can just leave the prime rib all by itself in the pan. Place the prime rib in the oven so that the meat is centered and cook it at this high for about 20 minutes to sear the outside. Then reduce the oven temperature to 325 degrees Fahrenheit and continue cooking the prime rib for about 13 to 15 minutes per pound for medium rare, which is arguably the best way to serve such a pricey cut of meat. Baste the meat every 20 minutes or so with hand drippings as this will help to create and start checking the temperature about 20 minutes before You can always cook the prime rib longer. But if you overcook it, you unfortunately can't reverse the clock. If you want a medium rare prime rib in that 125 to 130 degree internal temperature when it's done, you need to take it out of the oven between 118 to 120 degrees. And that's because of carryover cooking, which means that the will increase the temperature another seven to 10 degrees while it's resting. I took my prime rib out at 117 degrees and you can see, just a few minutes later, it's already up to 122 degrees. Place the prime rib on a cutting board and tent it with aluminum foil for 20 to 30 minutes while it's resting. And while it's resting, I'm gonna make the Red Wine Au Jus. If you have a fat separator, you can pour all the drippings into that to remove the fat and pour the drippings back into the pan. If you don't, just try to remove the majority of the fat from the pan, otherwise your Au Jus will be a little bit greasy. Add two cups of beef broth to the pan, and one and a half cups of red wine. And I'm using a Cabernet Sauvignon, but any full bodied red wine works. Give that a stir and bring the liquid to a simmer. You'll simmer it for about 15 minutes or until the liquid reduces by half. So while the sauce is simmering and after my prime rib has rested, I'll snip the strings that were connecting the bones. Just pull the strings off to remove them and then the bones There's no need to carve them off, which is always a lovely time savings. When you slice into the prime rib, the outside pieces will be but as you slice in, you'll get to the medium rare pieces. And prime rib is generally about a half inch thick. The lighting in my kitchen isn't doing this prime rib justice. But if I move the camera angles, you can now see how perfectly pink it is in the middle. The outer edges will always be a bit more well done and the only way to reduce that is if you do a reverse sear where you slow roast the prime rib for about double the amount of time, then sear the outside at the very end. If you're interested to see that method, let me know and I will do it in a future video. All right, while I was my sauce reduce down a bit too much, which is always the dilemma of being just one person who's not only cooking, but trying to film herself while cooking and moving camera gear around. Strain the sauce and remember that an Au Jus is meant to be a thin sauce. It's not thick like gravy. But if you want to stir in a little starch as a thickener, I won't tell. All right, it's time to plate up this beautiful prime rib. I'm adding my garlic herb roasted potatoes and green beans with shallots as sides. And both of these recipes And then I'll drizzle a little bit of the Red Wine Au Jus on top. This prime rib is seriously flavorful and I hope you guys love it as much as I do. And with that, I'm going to take my bite. I will see you again in next week's video.