Jules Boykoff, thank you so much for My pleasure, Dave. Great to be with you. please, why people should oppose Five reasons? Okay, well I think we should athletes are what make the Olympics special tide of athlete disgruntlement when it paid for their efforts around the Olympics. There was a really important study that came out alongside Toronto Metropolitan University. And revenue that Olympic athletes got compared to Premier League of Football, Major League Baseball. Major League Baseball and whatnot, athletes were and 60%. What they found with Olympic athletes, even less than that when you think about direct You set that next to the fact that for a nonprofit sure is profitable, at least for some of their from ProPublica revealed that the director general made $1.4 million in 2021. And together and something's very much not right. in addition to pay, athlete well-being. We've inside of the Olympics, fear, and there's some a shout-out to one group right now called which is speaking up in the Canadian context. Athlete pay and well-being needs to improve. the rank exploitation of the athletes with their struggle. What's reason number two? Olympics are essentially what I've been calling you write one number on that Etch-a-Sketch International Olympic Committee. You shake that your Etch-a-Sketch. And just the examples abound. Oxford University finds that every single Olympics The most recent Summer Olympics in Tokyo are to cost $7.3 billion. Instead, they cost more was because of the one-year postponement due there. The Sochi Olympics were supposed to cost more than all previous Winter Olympics combined the end of the day? It's usually taxpayers. So table for host cities. Everyday working people in these big enterprises, enterprises that they can't So that would be a very important second reason you're going to get hosed financially. And the know you could have gone chapter and verse to far All right, what would number three be? since the 1990s, the International Olympic but its follow through has been minimal pretty terrible track record, especially just looking back to the 2018 Winter they actually sliced through a sacred mountain ski run that was required for the skiing events. that they could have used, but instead they Similarly, four years later in Beijing, where a number of endangered animals live. And the follow through has been minimal, and this is So that's an important one, greenwashing. And Shaq footprint, because to call it just a carbon airline flights are a carbon footprint. O'Neal size 21 shoe carbon footprint. It Absolutely. And a really important point to add the Olympics calculate their carbon footprint, and then they use carbon offsets, which the tricks of the trade to try to make it seem as between the lines like you're doing there. do you have as number four? eviction. So unfortunately, the Olympics bring for working class populations in city after displaced more than 1,000,000 people. The some 800,000 were displaced, many of them thrown it time and again. In Atlanta, 1996, the homeless them were given one-way bus tickets out of town. chopped down the largest standing public housing Techwood Homes. So you often see public housing And we saw this one with our own two eyes, interviewed two women and a man who were displaced and then they were getting displaced from their Tokyo. So this is one of those issues that affects That's right. We were in Tokyo together in 2019. we investigated there together, was Fukushima and safe place for the Olympics to congregate, to even We saw mountains of garbage bags filled with It was. And that fits perfectly with greenwashing saying, if you help us host the Olympics in Tokyo, Fukushima. It was going to be this &quot;recovery from journalists to elected officials told us the opposite. They said that, actually, Fukushima because the cranes were going to Tokyo And you remember, we were traveling with a dosimeters that measured the radiation. And at you're safe. That guy's dosimeter said 3.77, around. So some 18 times higher than was safe. to go back there because it was an Olympic promise So that's number four, displacement. It's our own eyes. What do you have for number five? space. So when it comes to the Olympics, forces use the games like their own private special laws that they'd never be able to get you end up in 2012 at the London Olympics with apartment buildings and on top of towers in town. people that were living in those apartment that surface-to-air missiles were ratcheted slipped under their door -- By the way we were None of them were very happy about that. a sudden become some sort of terrorist target. it becomes a way also of doing sort technologies when it comes to civil the original plan was to have facial recognition know that they were postponed a year, and then so they scrapped that. But it was going to be this highly racist system -- Facial recognition -- In it becomes the new normal after the Olympic Games. host city, I would definitely want to be keeping And I would just say one other thing, Dave. The in the summer of 2024. And every single one of are in play in Paris, despite the fact that they and they said that the Paris Olympics guess what? They're not actually all that No, not at all. And Paris, of course, has been the Currently, it's being convulsed by President demonstrations, which people are defying. There do you think we could see more disruption in Paris given the temper of the times? especially when you look at the strength operating across France right now. They know that they wouldn't normally have. They can withhold of the system -- Which, by the way, will ramp get better deals for themselves. And I think, I groups using the Olympics to their advantage Jules, you've been asked this question a I know the people watching this are thinking it. promise actually be something that you could the displacement, the militarization athletic exploitation, those were the five that Well, Dave, if you would've asked me this a very different answer. In fact, I was asked in how I would fix the Olympics. And at that time, I thought could make a difference for athletes and ideas that were roundly ignored by So with 10 years now of experience of thinking construction of the International Olympic to have a humane Games, because they are not we have been talking about. And they have been and they have no intention whatsoever of I don't think in their current formation they can. Committee and you dwindled down thereby making the carbon footprint smaller, the you could start to move in that direction. But International Olympic Committee has no interest they're outside the purview of the games, although Some people also suggest, why don't you just five cities for each of the Summer and Winter costs and so on of building and whatnot. But the I was debating a couple of years ago the longest Committee, a guy by the name of Dick Pound, and that's just like a non-starter. So because of that meeting in place, we don't have a lot of hope That was Jules Boykoff with five reasons to your town. Hey, thank you everybody for News Network. For everybody out there listening, Thank you so much for watching The Real News and struggles that you care about most. And please tap your screen now, subscribe, and donate