In January 2024, researchers from Institute of Technology published Graphene is an interesting material. to incorporate it into transistors and When this research was first it got a lot of attention. I was asked to take In this video, we break down this recent ## Beginnings Graphene is a sheet of carbon atoms arranged in It is atomically thin. Literally a nanometers. Thusly people classify it as which is made from silicon, It can be rolled into nanotubes, a 1D Graphite itself is apparently held together with van der Graphene was first isolated in 2004 by two Geim and Konstantin Novoselov. They later won the Remarkably, they did it by using off flakes of graphene from graphite. and works surprisingly well. No million Graphene has many interesting properties. the Wikipedia is extremely Our goal here is to learn those ## Graphene's Mobility Graphene is most often noted for how or electron holes can travel through it. A The charge carrier mobility of pure graphene - fast, measured at anywhere from 10,000 to Even higher based on specific conditions. that if you suspended the graphene, the mobility By comparison, silicon's intrinsic per volt-second for electrons and 450 electron holes. So graphene is anywhere Why is this mobility such a big fabs sped up the switching speed shrinking the size of the transistors Nowadays, silicon transistors struggle to scale leading to short-channel effects, negative The high level thinking is that we carrier mobility for ultra-fast digital with silicon. This is the dream of the ## A Basic GFET A field effect transistor is named as An external electric field helps ability to conduct a flow of In its most basic form, a graphene-based source and drain with a strip This transistor structure sits on top of some both electrically isolate it and give some what is used depends on the Field Effect Transistors require a gate Where we place this gate in relation Most silicon planar MOSFETs are gate sits on top of the channel. More The first fabricated GFETs were &quot;Bottom-gated&quot;, channel layer. This was mostly for practical graphene using the Scotch Tape method, and this But as new, more advanced methods of based on chemical vapor deposition emerge like side-gated and top-gated GFETs. ## The Bandgap The most frequently cited issue with tied to the recent January 2024 A bandgap refers to an energy gap valence bands. Electrons usually When they travel and do the conduct electricity Semiconductor materials like silicon or bands that do not overlap. As in, there When sufficient energy is applied, the band into the conduction band. Thusly, the silicon Graphene's valence and conduction are called Dirac Points. But there is no gap. Pure graphene not having a bandgap makes and other things. But it also means that then you get a faucet that you cannot shut off. Modern digital logic chips are based on the CMOS paradigm, which consists of a pair CMOS is dominant today because which in turn depends on the power NOT flowing not being able to shut off the current makes ## Making the Bandgap Okay the lack of a bandgap sucks and everyone Right off the bat. You can to produce a Maybe one that takes advantage of a where electrons somehow quantum I shall say no more of this for There are also a few scenarios where you can theory implies that you can make a bandgap by some force to stretch or shrink which is possible but extremely difficult. Or you can pattern the graphene into very narrow nano-ribbons about 5 nanometers wide. resembles a bandgap because of something The issue with these known methodologies without also hurting graphene's incredible 5-nanometer wide nanoribbons are intuitively This missing bandgap has remained an issue January 2024 announcement by the Georgia ## Epitaxial Graphene Roughly speaking, there are two major schools There is one group exploring the use of Chemical certain metals and experimenting with the result. solar cells or touchscreen components - searching But there is a second school of research Walter de Heer. Their focus is on epitaxial Epitaxial refers to epitaxy, a type of technology. This type of deposition is notable for how it aligns the crystal structure of ## Buffer Layer was first discovered in 1975 by He produced this epitaxial graphene by first heating silicon carbide to a high This causes the silicon atoms in the uppermost sublimate - or go directly from a solid to a The silicon going away leaves which then re-crystallizes as graphene. In between the silicon carbide layer we have a layer of special graphene-like carbon. They call this carbon layer the atoms in it is a bit special. Organized in but with some bonded to the Research in the late 2000s hinted that properties. The problem has been producing The original van Bommel epitaxy method leaves because we are sublimating silicon off process doesn't go orderly. ## The SEG So what the Georgia Tech-Tianjin team more orderly buffer layer of what they are I am summarizing, but the method consists a seed and source, facing one another. They are placed inside a crucible, where they McCarthyist accusations in When done right, a slight temperature cause carbon atoms to travel over from the This method reminds me of another semiconductor methodology. and coverage of step structures, but Anyway, the resulting SEG material is indeed electron volts, roughly about By comparison, silicon has a bandgap of about 1.12 electron volts and silicon And - with one caveat which we material also retained graphene's about 4,000 to 5,000 square centimeters ## Problems Theoretically, this SEG material can source and drain. Then voila, you have a There are a few things I want to note is not particularly large. I mentioned it that SEG transistors might suffer transistors? Like their instability Another thing is that caveat I earlier material into a top-gated GFET and off, which is good and largely The issue was that the field effect moved through the transistor - was about This was nearly 200 times slower than Considering that silicon MOSFETs do this depends on the configuration and how you The Tianjin-Georgia team believes that this is insulating material. Which brings up this thing into an integrated circuit. It is worth to mention that general semiconductor as the bandgap grows. Considering the for data center products, I don't switching speeds if it also comes at the ## Conclusion The R&amp;D roadmap of transistor the next 5 or so years. After The current consensus is that after the transistor and then Complementary FETs. 2D-based Graphene is the first 2D material to be isolated, in semiconductors but there are others. Over Several show more potential than Graphene. metal dichalcogenides or TMDs. They are a class of 2D material made from a combination of They are also plentiful, while also of 1-2 electron volts. And people have been The Tianjin-Georgia group argue that their necessary properties to be used in properties are far superior to any other 2D I am not too sure about that, considering the every 2D material, graphene included, the Fab. The search marches on. Let