The Nightmare Before Christmas is a world that it's been that long since it released, and the lore. The Battle for Pumpkin King released within really makes me wonder about what the eventually grew to become the monster he is. In to the Nightmare Before Christmas, and how the world we've all grown to love. All starting from So let's set the stage because there's a lot to Boogie competing in friendly challenges. And this of buds. Neither Jack or Oogie seem to be upset healthy friendship. They are kids, and everyone about how people age in Halloween town, but this yet. But it isn't long after this that we see the fact, he's not even driving the car. It seems and they are the one making the announcement. draping collar, adorned with a spider web broach Jack o lantern, darkened in its core with various and his hands look to be gnarly wood - a true been the Pumpkin King for a very long time, if it's immediately after meeting this character as not long after they announce they want to they have an aside thought about how they wish and through them, all of Halloween itself. So there's a new old king of Halloween?!&quot; spooky fun like Jack Skellington, Up until this point the concept and role of the is the king, and that in the video games, Oogie we'll talk about inconsistencies with the games never knew who the &quot;ruler&quot; of Halloween town was. it the Mayor? Someone who claims that they are King themself? Heck, Death is lurking in Halloween shots in the movie. The Grim Reaper really seems But this story kind of frames things a bit we find out is named Edgar (whether or not there mentioned), Anyway, Edgar seems to be powerful and of competitions between Oogie Boogie and Jack role of pumpkin king. But all the while, Edgar think he's identified Oogie as the more easily a 'vessel' to be filled with whatever. In this contests play out, Edgar is always whispering into the rules, and to take advantage of shortcuts naively impressionable because being the Pumpkin he wants to win against his friend Jack, like Oogie was more so transformed into being a villain Eventually Edgar takes young which fans will recognize as Oogie Boogie's Edgar would eventually give the lair to Oogie story, Oogie Boogie has already lost the first (The goal being to retrieve as many pumpkins as pumpkins and thus has less 'whole' pumpkins than but assembled a jack-o-lantern out of the pieces. the takeaway from the contest was that Oogie felt notice of this and feeds into it by telling Oogie Edgar comforts Oogie and then eventually turns himself. Edgar states &quot;He's not going to is the only way to win the game, then the By this point lots of bugs, snakes, and other them for quite some time. Edgar seemingly draws them up into cups. The first batch of snake Oogie Boogie ingests, the more twisted he seems to seems like Oogie Boogie got lured somewhere and true goal is to make Halloween town a truly and he needs his successor to feel the same. what Edgar said at the beginning of the graphic and even halloween itself.&quot; Them being the new destined to be Oogie Boogie. And as the story believe that Edgar filing Oogie Boogie with &quot;vile during the second challenge we realize that So the second challenge involves building a tower will be deemed the winner. But as the towers are bringing bones to Oogie so he can build without boneyard area. (This seems... a little disrespectful Edgar reveals that he has the power to control from a lore perspective, there isn't really a We have a mad scientist who creates things, and Jack's Christmas experiments, but the fact his bidding is very interesting. Is this the power scarecrow has always had? Jack's tower is blown The third challenge involves carving pumpkins, be had here as well. Long story short, Oogie heckling Jack then he does actually carving a good Edgar casts Oogie out as he claims Oogie did rules in his favor. By this point Oogie is already this more sinister version says he doesn't need He casts aside his friendship with Jack as he and then the old Pumpkin King retreats to hill. He mutters to himself that it's a shame out. Meanwhile as the story draws to a close, again as he overtakes Edgar's old lair. And Oogie Boogie never broke free it could have just been in Oogie Boogie's core the setup between Edgar and Oogie that makes If a demon hands you a cup and you drink from it, the idea of winning friendly competitions twisted when something so monumental was added even when he thought Edgar's advice didn't Edgar's eyes, Oogie was expendable, as Edgar the book he claims &quot;Oh well... For now, at Edgar. And this just goes to show how uncaring forgetting about how bad the day was, Oogie Boogie as far as I can tell, still seems to be under those core obsessive traits may have always that Edgar didn't play a role in creating the up with bugs and evil ideas, but Edgar divided a and at the end of the day, the old Now those of you who have watched, read, and the Nightmare Before Christmas may be thinking... Jack and everyone else children? I thought the minus that one time right after when the original becomes a father. Yeah, that one was a bit of a tell what is canon and what isn't, truly. Like Jack and Oogie haven't even met yet, despite movie. Whereas this graphic novel depicts Jack already knows who Sally is, whereas I think he meets Sally for the first time there is definitely some inconsistency with have different mediums - a movie, games, books, written piecemeal over the span of 30 years, But the implications of this story in particular are BABIES in this. We see how they first interact Boys" from babydom. But were they born here? Did it apparently can grow? (no spoilers for pumpkin sewing on longer hair? And although the mayor is here like forever ago. We have Edgar over here how he isn't ready to do so, meanwhile, the mayor Edgar's position as Pumpkin King is one of tenured served for. And yet he's also the only person who sliding down chimneys and making reindeer fly. aside from general obsessive curiosity, I don't On that note, Edgar does eventually lay to rest that's where all Pumpkin Kings eventually the spirits of past kings? Although in thing remaining of him after a million years cemetery, and pumpkin patch are all next But there's just here's something about The that sets my creative heart afire with the finding that next thing to create has never been writing, painting, animation, EVEN CLAYMATION diving into a classes, like Lucy from Ballyhoo creepy sewing projects - she gives best practices have the right tools for each creation. And, Kaho's class perfectly blends the creepy side for some otherworldly results! It goes over how everything into one truly one of a kind animated into too - anything to follow your creativity, a new career, you'll find on Skillshare! AND! will get access to one of Skillshare's best year of Skillshare membership! That's 30 days of 500 check it out soon using my link, because wanted to do. I can't wait to see what you make! Canon or not, although the challenges themselves at times, I did really enjoy the deeper meaning world in the Nightmare Before Christmas. But I'd this origin story of Jack and Oogie? What did you Thank you, friends and fiends, for diving into this new Nightmare Before miss the next spooky creepy thing crawling