Saket, every time when we go for a Product the Product Owner role and its responsibilities. I just want to know how would, how do we answer Because when we come to Scrum Master, we know day to day life. How do we summarize that for a Product Owner? Perfect, I would say this is a difficult question Product Owner role is defined in Scrum and in many organizations or many times when they might be different. A relatively Scrum Master role is, I would covers the part, the whatever is explained It usually involves more things than a Scrum called a Scrum Master, rather than a role could be reversed. The way things have been explained in Scrum overall directions and kind of a CEO of the Now in the many organizations, I am not seeing is what not they expect from Product Owners. They may expect part of that role. I would say it is difficult to generically What I would prefer is that if you are looking to explain what you have been doing before. Now, many times you find the Product Owners people, so they, rather than they know the requirements to the development team. In a way, it's not like someone who is thinking do in the product. But, someone who is facilitating the conversation what is the best requirement? What kind of a requirement we need to take the development teams? In general, I talk about the two kinds of One kind of a Product Owner is that who really He has a good insight on customer needs. He understands how the selling of this product He understands how he is going to make partners He's quite aware of the competition who is He's the one who tells everything based on That's a one type of Product Owner. Usually I don't find that kind of a Product kind of a Product Owner role where this person who have expertise in these directions. Someone in the stakeholder might be having be having great insights on the technological having great insights on partner development be knowing how to take this positioning and based on every, these kinds of stakeholder A Product Owner becomes a great facilitator, to find out the priorities, the right priorities Now he may not know on his own, what are those The first thing is, I would say the role of right requirements? What are the needs? Why we are building something, because that's of Product Owner, sometimes you yourself discover somebody else is doing it. You coordinate, you interact, you engage those on and this information gets populated in Now before you populate the product backlog, thing, which might be consolidated or populated Product Owner, either he creates himself or coming up with a vision or so he gets the Yeah. Like the second type of Product Owner gets from others. The first type of person may give this big a second kind of person. You may talk about how you facilitated the picture, how you facilitated stakeholders of the business and coming up with a big idea. Once the big idea came, then how you facilitated into small chunks, so you kind of identified be able to work on. When I say business increment means somebody, customer as soon as it gets done. Once he's done, you help them in coming up in the form of features or user stories. So that's kind of a customer need. Any question till here, we have few more things What we can say, it's a vision, it's a, finally and finally putting all these ideas into a to see the priorities and value in those backlog. Yeah. Saket, Can we say that as analogy or that and, there's a bridge between the Product Product Owner facilitates there is a bridge that alignment. It's a nice way. It's a nice way to elaborate and understand Just maybe you want to be a little careful sometimes it makes people feel that you can't So, it's like that. Yes, he's a facilitator to discover the requirements He facilitates with the stakeholder as well members and also interacting with the stakeholder It's not like that I should be always in between, perfect analogy. Maybe if you just share it with someone, they a middleman between these two. It's not a middle man, but yes. There's the whole thing. So, this brings me to. We will talk a few more things. You'll talk a few more things. So, till here it's okay. Like visioning things and for our backlog. Yeah. Yeah. This makes perfect sense. Now many times, the idea goes extended further. This particularly is coming up with, why are develop up on? So that's the whole thing now, as far as the also responsible for, projecting how these What kind of releases business launches the on? One is that you are identifying, what should The second is that you also identify which you create releases. You, with the help of a stakeholder, you identify will go? And what will be the content of that release? This is like, because the Product Owner is requirement. He's also expected to facilitate delivering He projects or he facilitates identifying At the same time, based on the information he also projects, the timelines for those wants to know that, okay, when are we going how much money we can make in that particular So, the Product Owner is in many cases, in of collecting and sharing and collaborating stakeholders. They are aware where do we stand from our goal? If there has to be done something like if to be adapted, he facilitates discussions. If it looks like that, we need something soon We need to find out what can be removed from way of delivering supports that particular He's a facilitator to come up with those adjustments It is not about doing sprint planning. It is more about that, having a vision, having product, then coming up with a set of visibility continuously working on providing the transparency in their sprint reviews, sharing them, sharing information, the way people want to communicate, mechanism. The stakeholders are aware of what is happening What kind of challenges the team is facing, when and how we are going to put this content He probably uses it, the sprint review, very Yeah. So this is like a second part. Third is continuously working with the development Identifying fine green details of the user we call them, always doing just in time information backlog refinement sessions so that we don't That part is something on a team level work. Like a three broad thing, sometimes you may into external oriented responsibility and team point of view. There will be things which the Product Owner There are things which the Product Owner is is more to do with the stakeholders releases, This is kind of a role it is. Now you need to find out what you have played it up the elements from these things. You may not be doing all the things. When you don't do all the things, then you things and how you facilitate discussion so and overall, it fits into the vision of the So more or less this, yeah,