Oh my god Good morning, babe It's I've been begging her to stop dude. Can you stop studying? We need to go out It's Halloween No, but have school today no, I can you tell mommy come on Did you tell them where we're know a salad now is back in college It's Halloween. It's hallowa hallowa hallowa Isn't that They are people now are doing Yeah, I don't know you okay I don't know my wife, and I don't like that. Where's my cool hip lovely wife So No, it's just stop studying Okay, Asala's doing her master's degree tell you all about that later But today start of the Halloween season with members And there's so many things we want to do. Oh my god. Where do we start pumpkin patch Decorating Halloween outfits. What are you guys gonna be for? What are you gonna be for Halloween? I'm gonna be spider-man Stop can you guys guess what What's going on under here? No? No you didn't see what he put in there Is he an undercover CIA Spider-Man? Okay, so we gotta go. Oh yeah, okay. Because the stores will close. Okay, but did I even know what's happening? Oh, okay, I forgot. No one's even, okay, can we Okay. Hello, Anazala family! So! Okay. Here is what we're gonna be doing today. So, first thing we're doing. Halloween shopping. Yeah. We're gonna go to the Halloween store decorations, all that kind of cool stuff. And maybe a pumpkin patch. We're going to do a lot of Halloween stuff. Number two. Whatever you guys saw on the thumbnail Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We're going to tell you Actually, we're going to show you. We have footage and we're going to to show you what's happened. OK, it's been it's been a journey. Yeah, it's it's been a journey So we'll show you everything but for now, we head out and we All right, let's go. Bye! Oh, wait, wait! Oh, one more thing, guys, that we forgot. We are gonna be starting the And those are usually the people that we So, if you want us to mention your to have the post notifications on. And the second the video gets posted, comment under it so we see your name And that's it! So let's go! Here we go guys. First stop. Oh my God. I've seen some of these on TikTok Look at yourself. This is weird. Why do people have these things? I don't know. I thought you wanted to decorate. Yeah, but what is going on? Okay guys, so usually we don't We usually decorate the inside But this year this year we're really from the outside and we're gonna go like a competition between the neighbors and they're not winning One of the neighbors is really challenging Okay, stay tuned for that Oh my god. What's happening here. I don't think you're supposed to It's actually I think he's stuck was he up? Yeah Who pushed him? I didn't push him. Did you push him? Alan, did you push him? I remember this one, last We had it when, yeah with Jordan. So Jordan and Salish came over to our thing in there where we hid the key. The real Anazala OG fans No, that was when we lived in the cellar. They're getting married like you guys. Oh my god, yeah, she looks like you scary Okay guys look at this Oh my God. Alan, how many years did More than me? I think so. How did you manage to do that? You know, I actually found out about ever since I was young. So I just put them in. Oh, you know, today in this video, we're going tell them everything We found what was in there. We'll tell you off camera okay. Okay we'll tell them off camera but you Oh my god guys look it's Chucky. It's all the creepy dolls. Imagine I have this No I actually would move out and leave. Should we do it? Yeah. Perhaps. So guys we actually have a Wait for it. Oh my god, we ordered something off Amazon. She's gonna be really, really mad. But it's gonna be later It's probably in... What? How many? Okay, the second we get home, Okay. Don't look at no one. This thing is gonna jump. I Find it very weird to Oh my god, what's in here? Let's go. Oh my god, this is actually crazy. Oh Honey, you look really good in the dark. I love it You know, what's the scariest creepy dolls that came to life in movies If you put an animal next to me, Oh my god, look at this one. Look what it says, try me. No, no. Yo, if anybody actually buys We should do a video unboxing the Oh, that'd be nice. Comment below I'm gonna go on Google and be stuff, and then we're gonna order comments you wanted to do this video. It would be insane imagine Why would you want to do that after If there's any time to expect some crazy Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha you know, it's and she's like, oh, it's probably a Oh So why are we here because we want Yes. Yes. Where are the costume? So much I want to do this what is this oh my god inflatable carrot this halloween we're going to be getting yes yes yes you guys will know i think so we're going to get multiple outfits because there are going to be a for halloween okay don't tell them yeah below what i should be for halloween so I don't think you should do anything especially with the Okay, that's cute. I love you should be a chicken nugget. Yeah, why don't you be a chicken nugget? No, no, it should be this. Chicken nugget or this one. Oh, these are really cute. Do you want to be the chicken? Wait, look at this one. Okay, this is turning into chaos. Each person here get two outfits and Okay, guys, we'll come Who's this? Hello, who's this? What's your name? Puppy girl. Hi, puppy girl. hey honey babe you would look so good in and you I thought that me and you should this is actually cute this is actually those two okay Noah's coming first okay tell them which one you like so have to pick for Noah between Ninja Turtles they picking for you so I kind of rushed got the skeleton jumpsuit or I got the true to pick also for a silent yes I did here we guys what I picked I picked the inflatable okay my turn and then Mila okay go all a police officer or a not gonna lie i feel would actually be scared you'd protect even protect myself i can't even protect turn so my option is joy from inside inside Because I couldn't find . Because you couldn't find what? Yeah, she's cool. Okay guys, so you saw all of our costumes. And now it's up to you guys. We want your actual opinions of I think it's so cool for us that you guys And then on Halloween, we This is actually crazy. This is exciting. Yes. People are going to choose. Oh, yes. You're right. Okay, guys, we're So please let us know and we will count actually goes through the comments the numbers for every item? Yes, the percentages. I say, okay. Are you guys ready to go? You guys we just got home. Okay guys, so now it's time It's time Okay. Wait, wait, we'll tell them in a second. Can you just make sure the kids We're about to prank us We have a prank on a silas, so So It's mad at no, okay listen So I thought I was the rat But what she doesn't know is her you see this so we got this like and we're gonna hook it up to the rat. We're gonna hit it gotta get up Which rat So we're gonna go to the backyard We're all her to explain to you guys What happened that we're gonna stick this to her back thing is that when she starts running the And the rats gonna keep following Okay, so which one big yeah Get it on the camera. Yeah, she looks We need a tape We'll get a tape and come back. Okay, you got some tape Dude, Asala will Asala is gonna be the scariest person back so hard Asala is a prankster guys. Yeah Guys we do actually have an update have real rats in the house, so I will but I'll have her say what in real This is the rat Go she'll freak out. She'll freak out I'm gonna start talking back and guys the kids also know what we're hey honey are you ready to tell them yes Alan doing okay honey so we're gonna explain to them I know it's beautiful come on sit down sit down okay let's Are we not doing the outro? Okay, let's sit down. Are we doing the outro? Come on, we gotta tell them. Why are you coming? What? Stay there. Okay, sit down. Okay, are you ready? Yup, but it's too sunny. It's better, you look better like this. Like I'm squinting. No, no, no, we look good. Okay, tell us about what's happening. Um, oh, about the attic, right? Yeah. Okay, so guys, basically. Oh my God! They're out here! Oh my God! Oh my God! Oh my God! Oh my God! Do this here! Laughing You Where is the sticky, what happened? She ran so fast it flew I am No one's gonna do it with me, Okay, go. Noah, show me the rat. You know what, this Yeah, oh my goodness. Okay, we actually gotta still I'm gonna get you back. That actually made like my stomach drop. I love you. Like the Chipotle I ate is now like funny. No, watch what I'm gonna do to you. You better watch your back. Honey, you have to be open to pranks, baby. That's what we do. How many times do you prank me per hour? Yeah Every hour she keeps pranking the you a little prank No, I just didn't expect why would we do it when my eyes squinting? Okay, so honey, are you ready to tell them? No, are you ready? I'm not ready. Why? Because I need to think what just happened. Okay guys, so we showered, It's now night time. And it's time to tell you what Okay, are you guys ready? Okay, I think before we Okay, okay. So first, I'm going to show you the Yeah, it's supposed to be clear. That's what we understood. Yeah, but let me show you first We'll see what's happening, Okay guys, so basically, pest attic, and went to the backyard. And we're gonna tell you Yeah, so they basically found a correlation Yeah. That's what they said. We'll tell you about that Okay, here we go, okay, Okay, okay, I'm gonna take you guys Okay. Babe, don't fall. Are you good? We just showered. My dad's gonna be good. Oh my goodness. Oh my god. We just showered. Guys, back up. So guys, basically what they said is any rats here or any animals and they From the rat residue. But they did not find the rat. So wait, I'll show you now where find the rat somewhere else. I'll tell you in a second. Yeah, so look here. There's no rats or anything. Everything is clear and perfect, see? The droppings were there and there. Okay, so that's the attic part, It was a very, very big rat. No, it was like this big. Okay, come on. It's not that big. It was the tail was this big. How big was it? Okay, okay. The body. I'm being honest. Yes. I will tell you where they found it. The rat was bigger than my arm. Yeah, you saw the rat, right? Yeah. Okay, okay. Let me show you where the rat was. Babe, I'll close the attic in a second. She wants us to close it right away. There's nothing I'm gonna Okay. Let me show you where they actually went out the backyard here and for where did they find the rat? Yeah, so guys you see this hole here through here and then it would go behind would it like survive like eat I have no you see it was living right here so and they saw it and then they took it so we do not have a rat in our house to live right here Yeah, I just chill Okay guys so before we end out today's out to Lily we love you so much Thank you And guys, if you want us to mention your to do is turn the post notifications comment done right under the video. And we will find your name and We love you guys so much. The love and support everywhere, everywhere has been insane. You guys are honestly the Everywhere I go on TikTok, I see your We repost all of them. So make sure, guys, you keep doing it. We love you so much, and we'll