this meditation, I invite you to rest in exhausted, angry and afraid. God said to you turn to sleep, he says this to you as revealed himself to Moses in a burning so God asked Moses to take off his shoes. your shoes and as you turn to sleep, I Set them aside trusting that where you God is, this is holy ground too. So part of your body. Slow your breath. Exhale, letting go of anxious thoughts. breathe out the day's troubles. As you settle into a good night of sleep, of God. No matter how close or distant into his presence and sink into his love. Father God, as I finished this day, I while I am sleeping. Even while I sleep, you can restore my exhausted mind and you can reveal your love to me and fill As I have taken off my shoes for bed, I I rest knowing that those things that will help me with these things tomorrow. God speaks the words for you tonight you.&quot; He wants these words to burn bright burned before Moses. He wants his words penetrate deep into your inner being to blazing fire of goodness, warmth and hope. him and to hear his faithful words, &quot;I Moses had trouble hearing and trusting too. been strange and messy. Nothing about his choose him to lead his people out of down the river in a basket, a Hebrew king. Moses was a murderer who hid in the for hero of the Israelites, Moses would minds. blesses, he embraces, he uses unlikely God too. He was lost in the desert and even still God says to him, &quot;Moses, I will God is with you. Your life doesn't need life can be messy and strange and even Allow these words deeper into your heart this good news in your breath. Allow the into your darkness by breathing in and then also breathing out, pray, meditate When I say Moses' life was strange move in a nice clear clean straight line. turns, many layers of confusion and basket and covered it with tar and pitch She placed Moses as a baby inside and Nile, a wide long river. His mother didn't sent her daughter to follow it as it It was the Egyptian king's daughter who King, the Pharaoh, had ordered that all the Nile and it was Pharaoh's daughter what Moses's name means: How have you been cast into the waters among the reeds, caught in the perilous How have you been abandoned, thrust out &quot;I will be with you. I have been with you. You are named Moses too. You are the one I out of the pit, out of the miry clay and in the current of today's dangerous Allow him to draw you up from the sole self-dependence. As you allow yourself to give yourself to God's care. Become In this story of Moses, in the waters of baptism. The waters that instead cleansing healing waters. Yes, our seeking whom he can devour. Yes, like the you. He wants you to be covered by the this danger. Through these very same rescue you. He draws you out of death you, ending a day, giving yourself to resting in God's love. This is sacred, As you are being washed, you are more and presence to trust in his watchful care. Rest, sleep, believe, heart and mind, &quot;I will be with you.&quot; See speaking goodness into your heart. Breathing in, saying to your soul, &quot;You are meditate and trust saying again, &quot;You are messy and confusing. When he came of age, mattered most to his life. He understood stranger in the house of Pharaoh. He was from the riches of the oppressor was thing when his own people were enslaved, of Egypt? When he saw an Egyptian beating was given a chance to prove his identity vindication, he killed the Egyptian, into the desert to hide from Pharaoh's Years later, Moses had married, raised a father-in-law Jethro tending sheep on no doubt content to be removed and of Pharaoh's daughter. He had no expectation that God had any idea that his life was about to change This was a wilderness place where God likely have not experienced a literal of burning bush experience. This would be accept the truth of God in a way that would be a moment when he especially experience, maybe a worship service, a perhaps a time of prayer or even a of you and you haven't been the same &quot;But I haven't taken God as seriously as much. to trust God with my life. I continue to my strength than God's love.&quot; Moses would speak to me?&quot; He worried about his stutter when I opened my mouth.&quot; Moses would drift away from God too. He the people he was leading. and doubt. Even still, God says to Moses, &quot;I you, &quot;I will be with you.&quot; No matter how God still says, &quot;I will be with you.&quot; No God still says, &quot;I will be with you.&quot; Once again, place yourself before the sleep, believe these words deeper into Rehearse this good news in your breath. is with me&quot; and then also breathing out, God is with me.&quot; invite you to consider one more part of to Pharaoh, &quot;Let my people go.&quot; can I speak for you? Why would the king God replies, &quot;Tell Pharaoh that 'I Am' sent Great &quot;I Am&quot; sends you. God is being behind and before all other else in the universe was created. He is and have their being. &quot;The Great I Am&quot; says 'I Am' The Being who will always be with give yourself to sleep. Rest in God's faithfulness for he alone Lord bless you and protect you as you the radiance of a burning bush. May he be healing sleep. allow yourself to let go of today by breathing out, &quot;My God is with me. My God Amen. God speaks the words for you with you.&quot; He wants these words to burn fire that burned before Moses. He wants to penetrate deep into your inner being God is a blazing fire of goodness, warmth us to see him and to hear his faithful words that Moses had trouble hearing and bush had been strange and messy. Nothing would choose him to lead his people out sent down the river in a basket, a Hebrew King. Moses was a murderer who hid in the for hero of the Israelites, Moses would minds. blesses, he embraces, he uses unlikely Moses doubted himself. He doubted God too. despair of his terrible mistakes and be with you&quot; and God will be with you too. to make sense to you or to others. Your still God says to you, &quot;I will be with you.&quot; Allow these words deeper into your heart &quot;I will be with you.&quot; Rehearse this good fire of God's voice to shine into your your soul, &quot;God is with me&quot; and then also saying again, &quot;God is with me.&quot; When I say mean that his life did not move in a life's journey had many twists and turns, His mother took a papyrus basket and would float. She placed Moses as a baby reeds of the Nile, a wide long river. His would be found. floated away. drew him out of the water. The Egyptian Hebrew baby boys were to be thrown into who drew him out of the water. That is the water. left to drown? caught in the perilous current of life? How have you been abandoned, thrust out &quot;I will be with you. I have been with you. Moses too. You are the one I draw out of out of the miry clay and set your feet of today's dangerous rapid waters. Call Allow him to draw you up from the sole self-dependence. As you allow yourself to give yourself to God's care. In this story of Moses, we have a waters of baptism, the waters that are cleansing healing waters. Yes our enemy seeking whom he can devour. Yes like the you. He wants you to be covered by the this danger. Through these very same rescue you. He draws you out of death you, ending a day, giving yourself to in God's love. This is sacred, holy, more and more free to be near God to watchful care. Rest, sleep, believe, heart and mind, &quot;I will be with you.&quot; See speaking goodness into your heart. Breathing in saying to your soul, &quot;You are meditate, and trust saying again, &quot;You are Moses's life had been strange, messy and to sort out the things that mattered ways that he was an alien and a stranger one of the oppressed. Benefiting from the How could he enjoy any good thing when tirelessly for the brutal king of Egypt? his Hebrew brothers one day, he was given Israelite. In a fit of rage and the body in the sand and then fled into Years later, Moses had married, raised a father-in-law Jethro tending sheep on Moses was no doubt content to be removed son of Pharaoh's daughter. He had no expectation that God had any He had no idea that his life was about Horeb. This was a wilderness place where likely have not experienced a literal of burning bush experience. This would be accept the truth of God in a way that would be a moment when he especially experience, maybe a worship service, a perhaps a time of prayer or even a of you might protest here, &quot;But I haven't taken hasn't changed that much. to trust God with my life. I continue to my strength than God's love.&quot; Moses protested too. He said, &quot;Who am I He worried about his weaknesses, &quot;I can't mouth.&quot; Moses would drift away from God too. the people he was leading. He would Even still, God says to Moses, &quot;I will be will be with you.&quot; No matter how much still says, &quot;I will be with you.&quot; anger, God still says, &quot;I will be with you.&quot; Once again, place yourself before the sleep, believe these words deeper into Rehearse this good news in your breath. is with me&quot; and then also breathing out, meditate and trust saying again, &quot;My God to a close, I invite you to consider one Moses to say to Pharaoh, &quot;Let my people go.&quot; can I speak for you? God replies, &quot;Tell Pharaoh that 'I Am' sent Great I Am&quot; sends you. He is the true, true. and before all other things. He is the universe was created. He is the one in their being. &quot;The Great I Am&quot; says to you 'I Am' The Being who will always be with give yourself to sleep. Rest in God's faithfulness for he alone Lord bless you and protect you as you the radiance of a burning bush. May he be healing sleep. allow yourself to let go of today by breathing out, &quot;My God is with me. My God Amen. God speaks the words for you with you.&quot; He wants these words to burn fire that burned before Moses. He wants to penetrate deep into your inner being is a blazing fire of goodness, warmth and see him and to hear his faithful words, &quot;I Moses had trouble hearing and trusting too. been strange and messy nothing about his choose him to lead his people out of down the river in a basket, a Hebrew King. Moses was a murderer who hid in the for hero of the Israelites, Moses would minds. blesses, he embraces, he uses unlikely God too. He was lost in the desert and even still, God says to him, &quot;Moses, I will God is with you. Your life doesn't need life can be messy and strange and even God says to you, &quot;I will be with you.&quot; Allow mind, &quot;I will be with you.&quot; Allow the burning fire of God's voice to and saying to your soul, &quot;God is with me&quot; and then also breathing out pray, and trust saying again, &quot;God is with me.&quot; messy, I mean that his life did not move life's journey had many twists and turns, His mother took a papyrus basket and would float. She placed Moses as a baby reeds of the Nile, a wide long river. His mother didn't know where the basket follow it as it floated away. It was the Egyptian king's daughter who king, the Pharaoh, had ordered that all the Nile and it was Pharaoh's daughter That is what Moses's name means: drew him How have you been cast into the waters How have you been lost among the reeds, How have you been abandoned, thrust out &quot;I will be with you. you alone. You are named Moses too. I will draw you out of the pit out of rock.&quot; You have been in the current of to God for help. Allow him to draw you up busyness, rush and self dependence. As you give yourself to God's care. Become God a foreshadowing of what we gain in the meant for death turn out to be instead prowls around like a roaring lion Egyptian king, our enemy wants to drown dangerous waters of life. Get through waters, Jesus meets you. you out of death into new life. Allow giving yourself to sleep, resting in As you are being washed, you are more and presence to trust in his watchful care. Rest, sleep, believe, allowing these words deeper into See the burning bush of God's presence Rehearse this good news in your breath. with me&quot; and then also breathing out pray, with me.&quot; Moses's life had been strange, he began to sort out the things that in deeper ways that he was an alien and was a Hebrew, one of the oppressed. oppressor was troubling. his own people were enslaved, working When he saw an Egyptian beating one of a chance to prove his identity as an vindication, he killed the Egyptian, hid the desert to hide from Pharaoh's wrath. family and was working for his the backside of Mount Horeb. Moses was no from his previous life as the son of He had no expectation that God had any idea that his life was about to change This was a wilderness place where God likely have not experienced a literal of burning bush experience. This would be accept the truth of God your life. This would be a moment when he person, an experience, maybe a worship someone, perhaps a time of prayer or even inside of you and you haven't been the &quot;But I haven't taken God as seriously as much. to trust God with my life. more through my strength than God's love.&quot; Moses protested too. He said, &quot;Who am I about his weaknesses, &quot;I can't speak for Moses would drift away from God too. He the people he was leading. He would Even still, God says to Moses, &quot;I will be and God still says to you, &quot;I will be with that stir inside of you, God still says, &quot;I stubbornness and anger, God still says, &quot;I Once again, of God's presence. Rest, sleep, believe mind, &quot;I will be with you.&quot; Rehearse this saying to your soul, &quot;My god is with me&quot; meditate and trust saying again, &quot;My God to a close, I invite you to consider one Moses to say to Pharaoh, &quot;Let my people go.&quot; How can I speak for you? Why would the king Pharaoh that 'I Am' sent you. &quot;I Am,&quot; &quot;The sends you. He is the true, true. He is the God is being behind and before all other else in the universe was created. He is and have their being. &quot;The Great I Am&quot; says Being who will always be with you.&quot; In give yourself to sleep. Rest in God's dwell in safety. May the Lord bless you face shine upon you like the radiance of kind, granting you deep healing sleep. May allow yourself to let go of today by breathing out, &quot;My God is with me. My God is with me.&quot; Amen. that he spoke to Moses, &quot;I will be with and clear before you like the fire that to break through your darkness to grow in you confidence and love. God is a Yet it is often difficult for us to see will be with you.&quot; These were words that His life before the burning bush had life made it obvious that God would slavery to freedom. He was the baby sent raised in the palace of the Egyptian Moses was a murderer who hid in the for hero of the Israelites, Moses would minds. blesses, he embraces, he uses unlikely God too. despair of his terrible mistakes and be with you&quot; you. Your life doesn't need to make sense Your life can be messy and strange and with you.&quot; Allow these words deeper into will be with you.&quot; Rehearse this good fire of God's voice to shine into your your soul, &quot;God is with me&quot; and then also meditate When I say Moses's life was strange and in a nice clear clean straight line. His many layers of confusion and suffering. covered it with tar and pitch so that it inside and set the basket among the His mother didn't know where the basket She sent her daughter to follow it as it It was the Egyptian king's daughter who King, the Pharaoh, had ordered that all the Nile and it was Pharaoh's daughter what Moses's name means: drew him out of How have you been cast into the waters How have you been lost among the reeds, How have you been abandoned, thrust out &quot;I will be with you. I have been with you. Moses too. You are the one I draw out of out of the miry clay and set your feet of today's dangerous rapid waters. Call you up from the soul numbing currents of allow yourself to go to sleep, give dependent. In this story of Moses, we have a waters of baptism, the waters that are cleansing healing waters. Yes, lion seeking whom he can devour. Yes like drown you he wants you to be covered by this danger. Through these very same rescue you. Allow these waters to wash you, ending a God's love. This is sacred, holy, precious. more free to be near God to enjoy his Rest, sleep, believe allowing these words be with you.&quot; See the burning bush of God's presence Rehearse this good news in your breath. with me&quot; meditate and trust saying again, &quot;You are messy and confusing. When he came of age, mattered most to his life. He understood a stranger in the house of Pharaoh. He Benefiting from the riches of the How could he enjoy any good thing when tirelessly for the brutal king of Egypt? his Hebrew brothers one day, he was given Israelite. In a fit of rage and the body in the sand and then fled into Years later, Moses had married, raised a father-in-law Jethro tending sheep on doubt content to be removed and hidden Pharaoh's daughter. He had no expectation that God had any idea that his life was about to change This was a wilderness place where God You likely have not experienced a some kind of burning bush experience. when you came to accept the truth of God your life. This would be a moment when he person, an experience, maybe a worship someone, perhaps a time of prayer or even inside of you and you haven't been the haven't taken God as seriously as I I still struggle. I still don't know how I continue to resist him. Each day I live Moses protested too. He said, &quot;Who am I that his weaknesses, &quot;I can't speak for you, I Moses would drift away from God too. He the people he was leading. He would Even still, God says to Moses, &quot;I will be will be with you.&quot; No matter how much God still says, &quot;I will be with you.&quot; No God still says, &quot;I will be with you.&quot; Once bush of God's presence. Rest, your heart and mind, &quot;I will be with you.&quot; Breathing in saying to your soul, &quot;My God pray, meditate and trust saying again, &quot;My meditation to a close, I invite you to God instructs Moses to say to Pharaoh, Moses fusses, &quot;But how can I go back? How Why would the king of Egypt listen to me?&quot; you. &quot;I Am, &quot;The Great I Am&quot; is with you. &quot;The He is the real, real. God is being behind one by whom everything else in the whom all things hold together and have tonight, &quot;I Am with you. 'I Am' The Being who give yourself to sleep. Rest in God's can make you dwell in safety. May the sleep. May his face shine upon you like gracious and kind granting you deep May you be filled with peace. Continue to rehearsing in your breathing in and is with me. My God is with me.&quot; Amen. that he spoke to Moses, &quot;I will be with and clear before you like the fire that to break through your darkness to grow a new confidence and love. God is a blazing fire of goodness, warmth us to see him and to hear his faithful words that Moses had trouble hearing and bush had been strange and messy. Nothing would choose him to lead his people out sent down the river in a basket, a Hebrew King. Moses was a murderer who hid in the for hero of the Israelites, Moses would minds. blesses, he embraces, he uses unlikely Moses doubted himself. He doubted God too. despair of his terrible mistakes and &quot;Moses, I will be with you&quot; and God will be doesn't need to make sense to you or to strange and even still God says to you, &quot;I deeper into your heart and mind, &quot;I will your breath. Allow the burning fire of by breathing in and saying to your soul, out pray, with me.&quot; When I say Moses's life was did not move in a nice clear clean many twists and turns, many layers of a papyrus basket and covered it with tar placed Moses as a baby inside and set wide long river. His mother didn't know her daughter to follow it as it floated It was the Egyptian king's daughter who King, the Pharaoh, had ordered that all the Nile and it was Pharaoh's daughter what Moses's name means: drew him out of How have you been cast into the waters among the reeds, caught in the perilous How have you been abandoned, thrust out &quot;I will be with you. I have been with you. Moses too. You are the one I draw out of out of the miry clay and set your feet of today's dangerous rapid waters. Call you up from the soul numbing currents of allow yourself to go to sleep, give dependent. foreshadowing of what we gain in the meant for death turn out to be instead prowls around like a roaring lion Egyptian king, our enemy wants to drown dangerous waters of life. Get through waters, Jesus meets you. He reaches out to into new life. Allow these waters to wash sleep, resting in God's love. This is holy, precious. As you are being washed, God to enjoy his presence to trust in Rest sleep, believe allowing these words deeper into See the burning bush of God's presence Rehearse this good news in your breath. with me&quot; and then also breathing out pray, with me.&quot; Moses's life had been strange, he began to sort out the things that in deeper ways that he was an alien and was a Hebrew, one of the oppressed. oppressor was troubling. his own people were enslaved, working When he saw an Egyptian beating one of a chance to prove his identity as an vindication, he killed the Egyptian, hid the body in the sand and then fled wrath. Years later, Moses had married, father-in-law Jethro tending sheep on doubt content to be removed and hidden Pharaoh's daughter. special plans for his life. He had no there on the backside of Mount Horeb. spoke to Moses and a burning bush. literal burning bush, but you have had This would be that turning point when way that changed the direction of your especially revealed himself through a service, a time when you were serving a powerful sermon. Something shifted same since. You might protest here, &quot;But I should. My life hasn't changed that much. to trust God with my life. I continue to my strength than God's love. Moses would speak to me?&quot; He worried about his stutter when I open my mouth.&quot; Moses would drift away from God too. He the people he was leading. He would Even still God says to Moses, &quot;I will be will be with you.&quot; No matter how much God still says, &quot;I will be with you.&quot; No God still says, &quot;I will be with you.&quot; Once bush of God's presence. Rest, sleep, heart and mind, &quot;I will be with you.&quot; Breathing in saying to your soul, &quot;my God pray, meditate and trust saying again, &quot;my As we bring this meditation to a close, I Moses's story. God instructs Moses to say Moses fusses, &quot;But how can I go back? How of Egypt listen to me?&quot; God replies, &quot;Tell Great I Am&quot; is with you. &quot;The great I Am&quot; real, real. God is being behind and before everything else in the universe was hold together and have their being. &quot;The you. 'I Am' The Being who will always be Rest in God's faithfulness for he alone Lord bless you and protect you as you the radiance of a burning bush. May he be healing sleep. allow yourself to let go of today by breathing out, &quot;My God is with me. is to Moses in a burning bush, the place was So God asked Moses to take off his shoes. your shoes and as you turn to sleep, I Set them aside, trusting that where you God is this is holy ground too. So part of your body. Slow your breath. letting go of anxious thoughts. Breathe the day's troubles. As you settle into a good night of sleep, of God. No matter how close or distant into his presence and sink into his love. trust that you desire my company even you can heal my hurts. Even while I sleep, body. Even while I sleep, you can reveal and mercy. As I have taken off my shoes them to you. I rest knowing that those trust you will help me with these things tonight that he spoke to Moses, &quot;I will be bright and clear before you like the his words to break through your darkness to grow in you confidence and love. God hope. him and to hear his faithful words, &quot;I Moses had trouble hearing and trusting too. been strange and messy. Nothing about his choose him to lead his people out of down the river in a basket, a Hebrew King. Moses was a murderer who hid in the for hero of the Israelites, Moses would minds. yet God blesses, he embraces, he uses doubted God too. He was lost in the mistakes and even still, God says to him, with you too. God is with you. Your life others. Your life can be messy and will be with you.&quot; Allow these words be with you.&quot; Allow the burning fire of God's voice to in saying to your soul, &quot;God is with me&quot; meditate and trust Moses's life was strange and messy, I nice clear clean straight line. His many layers of confusion and suffering. covered it with tar and pitch so that it inside and set the basket among the mother didn't know where the basket She sent her daughter to follow it as it It was the Egyptian king's daughter who King, the Pharaoh, had ordered that all the Nile and it was Pharaoh's daughter what Moses's name means: drew him out of How have you been cast into the waters How have you been lost among the reeds, How have you been abandoned, thrust out &quot;I will be with you. I have been with you. Moses too. You are the one I draw out of out of the miry clay and set your feet of today's dangerous rapid waters. Call you up from the soul numbing currents of allow yourself to go to sleep, dependent. In this story of Moses, we have a waters of baptism, the waters that are cleansing healing waters. Yes, lion seeking whom he can devour. Yes, like drown you. He wants you to be covered by this danger. Through these very same He reaches out to rescue you. He draws these waters to wash you, ending a day God's love. This is sacred, holy, precious. more free to be near God to enjoy his Rest, sleep, believe, allowing these words deeper into See the burning bush of God's presence Rehearse this good news in your breath. with me&quot; and then also breathing out pray, with me.&quot; Moses's life had been strange, he began to sort out the things that in deeper ways that he was an alien and a a Hebrew, one of the oppressed. Benefiting troubling. How could he enjoy any good working tirelessly for the brutal king one of his Hebrew brothers one day, identity as an Israelite. In a fit of Egyptian, hid the body in the sand and Pharaoh's wrath. Years later, Moses had for his father-in-law Jethro tending Moses was no doubt content to be removed son of Pharaoh's daughter. He had no expectation that God had any idea that his life was about to change This was a wilderness place where God likely have not experienced a literal of burning bush experience. This would be accept the truth of God in a way that would be a moment when he especially experience, maybe a worship service, a perhaps a time of prayer or even a Something shifted inside of you and you protest here, &quot;But I haven't taken God as changed that much. to trust God with my life. I continue to my strength than God's love.&quot; Moses protested too. He said, &quot;Who am I about his weaknesses, &quot;I can't speak for Moses would drift away from God too. He the people he was leading. He would Even still, God says to Moses, &quot;I will be will be with you.&quot; No matter how much God still says, &quot;I will be with you.&quot; No God still says, &quot;I will be with you.&quot; Once bush of God's presence, into your heart and mind, &quot;I will be with breath. Breathing in saying to your soul, breathing out pray, meditate and trust bring this meditation to a close, I Moses's story. God instructs Moses to say Moses fusses, for you? Why would the king of Egypt that 'I Am' sent you. Great I Am&quot; sends you. He is the true, true. and before all other things. He is the universe was created. He is the one in their being. &quot;The great I Am&quot; says to you will always be with you.&quot; In peace give faithfulness for he alone can make you and protect you as you sleep. May his a burning bush. May he be gracious and you be filled with peace. today by rehearsing in your breathing in God is with me. My God is with me.&quot; tonight that he spoke to Moses, &quot;I will be bright and clear before you like the his words to break through your darkness to grow in you confidence and love. God hope. Yet it is often difficult for us to will be with you.&quot; These were words that His life before the burning bush had life made it obvious that God would slavery to freedom. basket, a Hebrew raised in the palace of who hid in the desert. If there had been Moses would not have had a strong resume Moses was an unlikely leader yet God people. Moses doubted himself. He doubted He was lost in the desert and the even still God says to him, &quot;Moses, I will and God will be with you too. God is with to you or to others. even still God says to you, &quot;I will be your heart and mind, &quot;I will be with you.&quot; Allow the burning fire of God's voice to in saying to your soul, &quot;God is with me&quot; meditate and trust saying again, is with me.&quot; When I say Moses's life was did not move in a nice clear clean many twists and turns, many layers of a papyrus basket and covered it with tar placed Moses as a baby inside and set wide long river. His mother didn't know her daughter to follow it as it floated It was the Egyptian king's daughter who The Egyptian king, the Pharaoh, had to be thrown into the Nile and it was the water. That is what Moses's name How have you been cast into the waters How have you been lost among the reeds, How have you been abandoned thrust out &quot;I will be with you. I have been with you. Moses too. You are the one I draw out of out of the miry clay and set your feet of today's dangerous rapid waters. Call you up from the soul numbing currents of allow yourself to go to sleep, give dependent. foreshadowing of what we gain in the meant for death turn out to be instead our enemy prowls around like a roaring the Egyptian king, our enemy wants to the dangerous waters of life. Get through waters, Jesus meets you. He reaches out to into new life. Allow these waters to wash sleep, resting precious. As you are being washed, you are enjoy his presence to trust in his allowing these words deeper into your the burning bush of God's presence Rehearse this good news in your breath. with me&quot; and then also breathing out pray, with me.&quot; confusing. When he came of age, he began most to his life. He understood in deeper in the house of Pharaoh. He was a Hebrew, riches of the oppressor was troubling. his own people were enslaved, working When he saw an Egyptian beating one of a chance to prove his identity as an vindication, he killed the Egyptian, hid the desert to hide from Pharaoh's wrath. family and was working for his the backside of Mount Horeb. Moses was no from his previous life as the son of He had no expectation that God had any idea that his life was about to change This was a wilderness place where God You likely have not experienced a but you have had some kind of burning turning point when you came to accept the direction of your life. This would be himself through a person, an experience, were serving someone, perhaps a time of Something shifted inside of you and you protest here, &quot;But I haven't taken God as seriously as I should. My life hasn't changed that I still struggle. I still don't know how I continue to resist him. Each day I live Moses protested too. He said, &quot;Who am I about his weaknesses, &quot;I can't speak for Moses would drift away from God too. the people he was leading. He would Even still, God says to Moses, &quot;I will be and God still says to you. &quot;I will be with that stir inside of you, God still says, &quot;I stubbornness and anger, God still says, &quot;I yourself before the burning bush of words deeper into your heart and mind, &quot;I in your breath. Breathing in saying to also breathing out God is with me.&quot; As we bring this consider one more part of Moses story. God instructs Moses to say to Pharaoh, Moses fusses, &quot;But how can I go back? How of Egypt listen to me?&quot; God replies, &quot;tell Great I Am&quot; is with you. &quot;The Great I Am&quot; real, real. God is being behind and before everything else in the universe was hold together and have their being. &quot;The you. 'I Am' The Being who will always be In peace give yourself to sleep. Rest and you dwell in safety. May the Lord bless face shine upon you like the radiance of kind granting you deep healing sleep. allow yourself to let go of today by breathing out, &quot;My God is with me. My God God speaks the words for you tonight you.&quot; He wants these words to burn bright burned before Moses. He wants his words penetrate deep into your inner being to God is a blazing fire of goodness, warmth us to see him and to hear his faithful words that Moses had trouble hearing and bush had been strange and messy. Nothing would choose him to lead his people out sent down the river in a basket, a Hebrew King. Moses was a murderer who hid in the for hero of the Israelites, Moses would minds. blesses, he embraces, he uses unlikely He doubted God too. despair of his terrible mistakes and be with you&quot; and God will be with you too. to make sense to you or to others. Your still God says to you, &quot;I will be with you.&quot; Allow these words deeper into your heart this good news in your breath. Allow the into your darkness by breathing in and then also breathing out pray, meditate saying again, &quot;God strange and messy I mean that his life straight line. His life's journey had confusion and suffering. His mother took and pitch so that it would float. She the basket among the reeds of the Nile, a where the basket would be found. She sent away. it was the Egyptian king's daughter who King, the Pharaoh, had ordered that all the Nile and it was Pharaoh's daughter what Moses's name means: drew him out of How have you been cast into the waters among the reeds, caught in the perilous How have you been abandoned, thrust out &quot;I will be with you. I have been with you. Moses too. You are the one I draw out of out of the pit out of the miry clay and in the current of today's dangerous Allow him to draw you up from the sole self dependence. As you allow yourself to give yourself to God's care. Become God a foreshadowing of what we gain in the meant for death turn out to be instead our enemy prowls around like a roaring the Egyptian king, our enemy wants to the dangerous waters of life. Get through waters, Jesus meets you. He reaches out to He draws you out of death into new life. Allow these waters to wash you, ending a resting in God's love. This is sacred, you are more and more free to be near his watchful care. Rest, sleep, believe allowing these words be with you.&quot; See the burning bush of your heart. Rehearse this good news in soul, &quot;You are with me&quot; and then also saying again, &quot;you are with me.&quot; Moses's confusing. When he came of age, he began most to his life. He understood in deeper in the house of Pharaoh. He was a Hebrew, riches of the oppressor was troubling. his own people were enslaved, working When he saw an Egyptian beating one of a chance to prove his identity as an vindication, he killed the Egyptian, into the desert to hide from Pharaoh's raised a family and was working for his the backside of Mount Horeb. Moses was no from his previous life as the son of He had no expectation that God had any idea that his life was about to change This was a wilderness place where God likely have not experienced a literal of burning bush experience. This would be accept the truth of God in a way that would be a moment when he especially experience, maybe a worship service, the perhaps a time of prayer or even a of you and you haven't been the same You might protest here, &quot;But I haven't life hasn't changed that much. to trust God with my life. I continue to my strength than God's love.&quot; Moses protested too. He said, &quot;Who am I that his weaknesses, &quot;I can't speak for you. I Moses would drift away from God too. He the people he was leading. He would Even still, God says to Moses, &quot;I will be will be with you.&quot; No matter how much God still says, &quot;I will be with you.&quot; No God still says, &quot;I will be with you.&quot; Once bush of God's presence. into your heart and mind, &quot;I will be with breath. Breathing in saying to your soul, breathing out pray, meditate and trust bring this meditation to a close, I Moses story. God instructs Moses to say Moses fusses, &quot;But how can I go back? How of Egypt listen to me?&quot; God replies, &quot;tell Great I Am&quot; is with you. &quot;The Great I Am&quot; real, real. things. He is the one by whom everything the one in whom all things hold together to you tonight, &quot;I Am with you. 'I Am' The peace, faithfulness for he alone can make you and protect you as you sleep. May his a burning bush. May he be gracious and May you be filled with peace. today by rehearsing in your breathing in My God is with me. My God is with me.&quot; tonight that he spoke to Moses, &quot;I will be bright and clear before you like the his words to break through your darkness to grow in you confidence and love. God hope. Yet it is often difficult for us to will be with you.&quot; hearing and trusting too. His life before messy. Nothing about his life made it lead his people out of slavery to river in a basket, a Hebrew raised in the murderer who hid in the desert. If there Israelites, Moses would not have had a Moses was an unlikely leader yet God people. Moses doubted himself. He doubted he was lost in the desert and the even still, God says to him, &quot;Moses, I will God is with you. Your life doesn't need life can be messy and strange and even Allow these words deeper into your heart &quot;I will be with you.&quot; Rehearse this good fire of God's voice to shine into your your soul, &quot;God is with me&quot; and then also saying again, &quot;God is with me.&quot; When I say mean that his life did not move in a life's journey had many twists and turns, His mother took a papyrus basket and would float. She placed Moses as a baby reeds of the Nile, a wide long river. His would be found. She sent her daughter to It was the Egyptian king's daughter who The Egyptian King, the Pharaoh, had to be thrown into the Nile and it was the water. That is what Moses's name How have you been cast into the waters, among the reeds, caught in the perilous abandoned, thrust out of the safety of you. I have been with you. Moses too. You are the one I draw out of out of the miry clay and set your feet of today's dangerous rapid waters. Call you up from the soul numbing currents of As you allow yourself to go to sleep, dependent. In this story of Moses, we have waters of baptism, the waters that are cleansing healing waters. Yes, our enemy seeking whom he can devour. Yes, like the you. He wants you to be covered by the this danger. Through these very same rescue you. He draws you out of death ending a day, giving yourself to sleep, holy, precious. As you are being washed, you are more and presence to trust in his watchful care. Rest, sleep, believe allowing these words be with you.&quot; See the burning bush of your heart. Rehearse this good news in soul, &quot;You are with me&quot; meditate and trust saying again, &quot;You are messy and confusing. When he came of age, mattered most to his life. He understood stranger in the house of Pharaoh. He was from the riches of the oppressor was How could he enjoy any good thing when tirelessly for the brutal king of Egypt? his Hebrew brothers one day, he was given Israelite. In a fit of rage and the body in the sand and then fled into Years later, Moses had married, raised a father-in-law Jethro tending sheep on Moses was no doubt content to be removed son of Pharaoh's daughter. He had no expectation that God had any idea that his life was about to change This was a wilderness place where God likely have not experienced a literal of burning bush experience. This would be accept the truth of God in a way that would be a moment when he especially experience, maybe a worship service, a perhaps a time of prayer shifted inside of you and you haven't here, &quot;But I haven't taken God as changed that much. to trust God with my life. I continue to my strength than God's love.&quot; Moses protested too. He said, &quot;Who am I about his weaknesses, &quot;I can't speak for Moses would drift away from God too. the people he was leading. He would Even still, God says to Moses, &quot;I will be will be with you.&quot; No matter how much God still says, &quot;I will be with you.&quot; No God still says, &quot;I will be with you.&quot; Once bush of God's presence. Rest, sleep, heart and mind, &quot;I will be with you.&quot; Breathing in saying to your soul, &quot;My God pray, meditate As we bring this meditation to a close, I Moses's story. God instructs Moses to say Moses fusses, &quot;But how can I go back? How of Egypt listen to me?&quot; you.&quot; &quot;I Am,&quot; &quot;The Great I Am&quot; is with you. &quot;The He is the real, real. God is being behind one by whom everything else in the whom all things hold together and have tonight &quot;I Am with you. you.&quot; In peace faithfulness for he alone can make you and protect you as you sleep. May his a burning bush. May he be gracious and may you be filled with peace. Continue to by rehearsing in your breathing in and &quot;My God is with me. My God is with me.&quot; Amen. that he spoke to Moses, &quot;I will be with and clear before you like the fire that He wants his words to break through your inner being to grow a new confidence and God is a blazing fire of goodness, warmth us to see him and to hear his faithful words that Moses had trouble hearing and bush had been strange and messy. Nothing would choose him to lead his people out sent down the river in a basket, a Hebrew King. Moses was a murderer a job opening for hero of the Israelites, to our minds. blesses, he embraces, he uses unlikely God too. despair of his terrible mistakes and be with you&quot; you. Your life doesn't need to make sense Your life can be messy and strange and with you.&quot; Allow these words deeper into Rehearse this good news in your breath. shine into your darkness by breathing in and then also breathing out pray, with me.&quot; messy, I mean that his life did not move life's journey had many twists and turns, His mother took a papyrus basket and would float. She placed Moses as a baby reeds of the Nile, a wide long river. His would be found. She sent her daughter to It was the Egyptian king's daughter who King, the Pharaoh, had ordered that all the Nile and it was Pharaoh's daughter what Moses's name means: drew him out of How have you been cast into the waters, among the reeds, caught in the perilous How have you been abandoned, thrust out &quot;I will be with you. I have been with you. Moses too. You are the one I draw out of out of the miry clay and set your feet of today's dangerous rapid waters. Call you up from the soul numbing currents of allow yourself to go to sleep, give dependent. foreshadowing of what we gain in the meant for death turn out to be instead our enemy prowls around like a roaring the Egyptian king, our enemy wants to the dangerous waters of life. Get through waters, Jesus meets you. He reaches out to He draws you out of death into new life. Allow these waters to wash you, ending a giving yourself to sleep, resting in As you are being washed, you are more and presence to trust in his watchful care. Rest, sleep, believe, allowing these words deeper into See the burning bush of God's presence Rehearse this good news in your breath. with me&quot; and then also breathing out pray, with me.&quot; confusing. When he came of age, he began most to his life. He understood in deeper in the house of Pharaoh. He was a Hebrew, riches of the oppressor was troubling. his own people were enslaved, working When he saw an Egyptian beating one of a chance to prove his identity as an vindication, he killed the Egyptian, hid the desert to hide from Pharaoh's wrath. Moses had married, raised a family and tending sheep on the back side of Mount removed and hidden from his previous he had no expectation that God had any idea that his life was about to change This was a wilderness place where God likely have not experienced a literal of burning bush experience. This would be accept the truth of God in a way that would be a moment when he especially experience, maybe a worship service, a perhaps a time of prayer or even a Something shifted inside of you and you protest here, &quot;But I haven't taken God as changed that much. to trust God with my life. I continue to my strength than God's love.&quot; Moses protested too. He said, &quot;Who am I about his weaknesses, &quot;I can't speak for Moses would drift away from God too. the people he was leading. He would Even still, God says to Moses, &quot;I will be and God still says to you &quot;I will be with that stir inside of you, God still says, &quot;I stubbornness and anger, God still says, &quot;I yourself before the burning bush of words deeper into your heart and mind, &quot;I in your breath. Breathing in saying to also breathing out pray, meditate and we bring this meditation to a close, of Moses's story. God instructs Moses to Moses fusses, &quot;But how can I go back? How of Egypt listen to me?&quot; God replies, &quot;Tell Great I Am&quot; is with you. &quot;The Great I Am&quot; real, real. God is being behind and before everything else in the universe was hold together and have their being. &quot;The you. 'I Am' The Being who will always be In peace, give yourself to sleep. Rest in God's faithfulness for he alone May the Lord bless you and protect you like the radiance of a burning bush. May deep healing sleep. allow yourself to let go of today by breathing out, &quot;My God is with me. My God Amen. We hope this meditation brought you of Biblical bedtime stories, download the