Hello Ding-a-lings, my name is Michael and Problem. But why? Why should anyone discuss the Monty Hall Problem. It has been discussed ad nauseam. There are so many articles and videos about recent video about paradoxes on Vsauce 2. Check that one out, please. Does the world really need another discussion No. But maybe it does. You see I believe that true understanding possible, discuss something from as many perspectives to talk about the Monty Hall Problem and why osmosis the greater your understanding will been driving around on my commute to and from ab out the Monty Hall Problem. If you see me talking to myself in my car I'm literally explaining the Monty Hall to intuitively get it and I feel like I have I'm not saying it's the best but I wanted So let's dive in. First of all what is the Monty Hall problem. Well it was named after game show host, Monty One of the challenges he would put the audience number one, door number 2, and door number Now Monty would honestly tell the audience was a goat. A goat. Yeah. But behind one of the doors was a bunch of Let's say a million dollars. Now the audience member got to pick one of that had money behind it they would get to had a goat behind it, well they'd get a it and travel back home with it. Point is, you weren't supposed to want the have replaced the goats with pieces of poop. Fewer people want poop. Some still will but the point is you're If you pick a door that has poop behind it home, and take care of it and feed it, all So here we go. Uhh door one. Door one. Okay. Awesome. Before I open door one, I'm gonna tell you It's good that you picked door number one two. You see that? There's some poop. Oh you don't want that. But now, Hannah before I give you what's gonna actually let you switch. You can switch to door number three or you After you've done that, either you've whatever is behind the door that you have Would you like to switch or stick with your I'll stick with my choice. Why? Because it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter right? It kinda feels like a 50/50 right. You know that there's no money behind door behind door number one or door number three. So you have a 50/50 chance right? I mean why not just stick with your first right and ya switched. Well then you would really hate yourself for It would feel like you lost the money. Like you had it and then you lost it by switching. If it's behind the door you didn't pick You don't feel like you're losing something not to switch. But mathematically you should always switch. In fact if you switch you will win not half If you switch you will win 2/3 of the time. And if you don't switch you'll only win So you have a 66.6 repeating chance of winning Why should that be? Why is it not 50/50? Well it comes down to two extremely important The first one is quite easy for us all to It's the fact that when you make your first you the result. You stuck with 1, and Hannah just like I said, You shouldn't always switch, let's be I'm not telling you a strategy to always I'm just telling you the best strategy in So you chose to stick with one but there's The money was behind three. So there it is, a million dollars to scale. So, let's get back to these two important The first is that when you first choose a the money is 1/3. Okay that's the chance that you'll be The money is behind one of three doors. You have a one in three chance of picking bat. That's pretty clear but that also means does not have money behind it. More doors have poop behind them than have The second and much more important fact is behind and the host will never open a door I believe most disagreements over the solution over the rules of the game. So let's make it extremely clear. First you pick a door. Next the host opens one of the two doors you And the door the host opens of those two will You are then asked if you would like to stick door that you didn't pick that the host This is why it feels like a 50/50. We know that the money is either behind the didn't open that you didn't pick. It's behind one of them because it's definitely The host only ever opens a door with a goat But surprisingly to switch or not is not a Switching allows you to win 2 out of 3 times. If you chose a door like Hannah did, door a coin and randomly opened one, sometimes behind it and that would be terrible television host would say okay well you were wrong, would closed. Of course you wouldn't. It wouldn't matter. The game would be over and it would be over. Instead the host always opens a door of the it. Okay. Or a goat depending on which version you wanna So what does that mean? Well it means that sometimes you choose the That's awesome. And in that case it doesn't matter which The host could have a rule where they always flip a coin and open one or two. Either way, the host can open either door. But most of the time you didn't pick the 2/3 of the time you pick incorrectly. In that case the host is forced to open one The host has no choice. The host cannot open three because the money The host must open the other door to reveal This is why you actually have more information The host is always avoiding the door with So by looking at which door when you have You actually know a little bit more about In the case that you picked correctly the the host has decided to open one door and But most of the time you're choosing incorrectly The door that the host left closed was left you should switch. Okay. To make this really really clear, if I choose no money behind it. If I don't choose correctly the door that So if I'm wrong with my first choice I should If I'm correct with my first choice I shouldn't Okay? Perfect. Here's the thing. You choose correctly much less often if we much less often than you choose incorrectly the money behind it 1/3 of the time. 2/3 of the time, most of the time, you will it's goat poop behind it. So most of the time you should switch because door. There's an analogy that I think makes this And it involves a sack. This sack contains 3 marbles. Two are white and one is black. We can say, let me put them on the bag, great. Okay now we can say that the goats are represented are the black marble. You want the black marble and when things I just have to reach in there and pull one get to look. Perfect. I've pulled one out. I don't know if this is a white or black Remember that. But now what happens, an analogy to the Monty I give this bag to the host. The host then looks inside the bag and pulls The host will always pull out a white marble marble. The host will never open the door that has be at least one white marble left in the sack are two white marbles in here. If I chose the white marble then there's Either way the host has a white marble to The question now is should I switch? Should I go with the marble I initially picked? I don't know what it is. Or should I switch tot eh bag? I should always switch to the bag because marble. The host then removes the other white and If I choose correctly with my draw that means are two white marbles in here. Well then of course when the host removes the bag and I shouldn't switch but I choose time. Most of the time I am handing the host a bag marble. The host's job then is to remove a white marble that I want in the bag and so I should in my hand. Now you should be prepared to make a killing Very good. Stay curious, keep exploring probability and Oh yeah! Oh I'm grr baby grr. Get it? It's Borat.