From the astral world. We come at birth Someone asked me why we should try To this I reply, because that is where you will You were there as a soul and because you are not there now is why all your misery persists. By entering that otherworld, and healing of all suffering and diseases. We discover the secret of our existence. What happens after death and how to live in the material world This world has a lot of limitations When a soul leaves the expansiveness that human baby finds himself restricted and wants to get out of it, but can't. For nine months he has to wait. Then he is subjected to the helplessness He must fight his way through passions if he doesn't control, Then he marries, struggles to support a family, But as he gets older, everything and eventually he dies. Every day, be its minor variations, and still you cling to this world It is not. If you could perceive the astral world, infinitely more real than the Earth plane, without the enlivening powers Material existence higher, finer dimension of reality. This world is the result The blueprints of everything conceived. All the forms and forces in nature, have been first produced are made visible in forms of heavenly Then they are materialized But the astral body of man of everything in nature more expressive of the harmony than what we perceive when The astral world is not the ultimate liberating experience. The soul attains complete ascension realization of its oneness Nevertheless, to disengage into the higher awareness Learn to be more transcendent now. Identify with the life of your astral self with the astral world. How to get to that You are always there, with the physical perceptions of your that powers those thoughts and perceptions Your soul sojourns there every night only you are not conscious of it for just a little while. During wakefulness, The rest of the time it is in the astral. Whenever you are using the subconscious or employing its creative power of visions you are to some degree So it isn't that you do not get there. You are always there, unknowingly from which the life and intelligence are constantly flowing. You are working from that astral plane even though you think you are a material You are not. You should learn to get acquainted Suppose you have two houses, constant turmoil in the beautiful section of town When you go to your better home, That is what I urge of your finer astral body As long as you enslave yourself of the physical body, so long Much trouble. Why are you so attached to the body? Only because you have chosen to be. Meditation is nothing magical. It is the natural process and transferring your consciousness We meditate not only for the peace and joy but also to free ourselves from The body is a remarkable machine. Normally it keeps on running for decades. Yet it is still a nest of troubles. Heat and cold. Disease and weakness The doctor, like the mechanic who repairs but the real control of the physical body is in the astral world No doctor knows because any trouble of karmic origin, the astral body The cure lies in employing the proper flow and consciousness Just as when the lights in your house you have to check the wiring If there is something wrong there, will be out of order. So with chronic disorders you have to repair your flawed connection Dynamo of power. Everything in the material world in the astral world, is a gross one, limited and distorted The principle of duality or relativity is inherent Shadow as well as light, is necessary a universe of separate forms Relativity operates but on that plane Everything is perceived of light, not else in the material world. Delusion is deeply embedded in that law consciousness from understanding things You don't perceive things in their essence because the instrumentality You instead experience liquids, and gases as so radical and try to walk across the liquid ocean, Even though you can cognize the shore as liquid, You differentiate the solids vibrations of light, You can glide just as easily or you can walk on liquid light As Jesus showed to him, both his body and the sea were not which he could alter He demonstrated that a fully can control the astral That is how he performed his miracles, such feeding multitudes with a few loaves There is not one human experience for which the astral world You can experience birth and death and diseases and everything that you see Relativity of light can create sensations experienced as real in the material world. Because the law of relativity Man is constrained by those realities. In the astral world, everything is How important it is I am all the time there. Even now, as There are no words In this gross world, Even the most enjoyable things But in the astral world, You will never tire of that world. If you want to be young, you can be. So if you want to appear as a man or in any form you wish, you can do so. You do not have to worry about money A mere command of your will provides Wouldn't it be wonderful This earth is so limited. Some persons have plenty, But in the heavenly astral world Every being has according to his desire. If you want an opulent palace, If you want snow or heat or light or rain, you can have it With astral light, You are free from all limitations The kingdom of God, is God, a hoary man sitting on a throne surrounded by winged harp playing angels. That is a limited concept held whose understanding cannot conceive The infinite absolute. Men without wisdom consider me like a mortal being. Taking a form, My unchangeable, unalterable nature. I, the unchanging and everlasting, sustain the entire cosmos The Bhagavad Gita 724. The invisible saints who by samadhi meditation higher than the ordinary astral world, Tell us that God is not only formless, In fact, it is that one spirit who He is not only the impersonal absolute, manifesting as the Heavenly Father that his devotees want to see, but God and all his angels are absolutely one. Likewise, is imposed on those souls But because souls they can reappear from the light At the time when a soul is liberated The Lord and his ascended and there is great rejoicing in the supernal astral and bliss. In that Paradise. If there were only the one light there would be no guests, Just as the one beam of light passing through a film of individualized can show a grand festivity So in the heavenly celebrations, God in a deity form All are made of the inconceivably subtle differentiated by their own When the celebration concludes, into the ecstatic merging into the One Light, one spirit. There are no limitations, Advanced and actions just as they please. It is freedom, eternal. If you want to go to the farthest star. Traveling through the ether faster You can be a star, a human being, an angel, These are some of the advantages of the ultimate realms Of course, most souls after death do not They go to one of the higher or lower as determined by their good or bad karma, Souls who have been evil desires and attachments to work out their materialistic Souls who are fairly virtuous on earth have the chance to stay longer and when they reincarnate on Earth again, impetus towards We go to the astral world but why wait for death freedom now, Unless you are somewhat advanced, state may be more like interspersed with short periods until you wake up in your next But if you can consciously you will be able to go there and you will be able to come back again When the time is right for you to continue your lessons and when your earthly karma is burned up, and never have to take another forced What is the use of giving I am not wasting my time here because I made the necessary effort Even when I'm working in the fields or mixing with people, Such joy every minute, every second. No matter what I am doing. Once in a while I feel I'm in this world, the Lord withdraws my spirit in ecstasy There is no wind, There is no ocean. There is no breath. There is no temple. There is just one light, and then as my consciousness comes down, into the temple, into the wind, It is like the movies. The one beam of light is throwing How pure is this light? How powerful and how terrible is the movie That is how life is when we keep our minds on the light. It is wonderful. But when we concentrate on the world, we are caught up Until you realize this through meditation. The world is a prison, all trouble Most of the people are poor. Most of the people are sick. Most of the people are unhappy. You may think you are all right now, but the next minute. Why don't you seek to know your real self, instead of being subject In this gross world, body is not well. Eyesight is going. Stomach is weak. Why should we tolerate these things? We have subjected our souls Everyone looks for the latest diet a little healthier. But all these things you make such a fuss That is why Jesus said, take what ye shall eat, neither for the body, Now do you understand why he said that? He wanted us to concentrate not on matter. Think of those in Europe by the bombs of war. This earth is perpetually a place of war, the battle of good and evil Bombs of suffering are falling everywhere. The animals fight and eat one another, and supposedly superior man behaves If you were animals, you would say, And if any other animal comes near me, That is how territorial But where will the instigators be? 100 years hence, and it will have no more importance Man should rather use his brief span here to find freedom in God. The only purpose of life is to get away Wait no longer. How dare you forget God! I testify to you of the existence of God's Now why don't you seek it? You are always trying to create But it is fruitless. You will never succeed, for this world That utopian dream is memory Methinks that sometime, somewhere In a little kingdom all my own. I built a castle of my dreams. A beautiful garden Paradise all my own. Methinks I lived there These kinds of dream imaginings in the minds of everyone, and Imagination is not unreal. It is the borderland of Everything you imagine can be created Jules fiction, Think of all the wonders that once were Somebody imagined the automobile electric lights, and another And now these marvelous Imagination is a portal through which you can transcend All creative persons Whatever you can imagine I tell you that things which do not exist now in this world will be created for you. Imagination can be materialized. When you develop spiritually, when you sit still as far as you can into the realm And if you can hold your mind to one pointed concentration it will be shown to you And if you apply strong willpower ultimately it will manifest. Healings can be affected. Success. Successes attained. Disasters in your environment Seemingly impossible needs or worthy Your mind, united with your soul, is such And yet you don't utilize that power. Why shouldn't you? By increasing the intensity you can consciously realize of the astral world. In meditation, when you think you are Try to be even more calm. Gradually, your consciousness will become Get out of limiting material consciousness working to manifest through the universal to develop mental imaging. I used to sit in a room and concentrate in another unseen room, until my immediate and I was seeing in exact detail By practice, develop proficiency the mind's eye on what you wish to achieve Banishing any images that distract These powers of imagination power of inner and opening of the spiritual and increased ability form, such as the power of thought. The Lord's creative principle into manifestation then as subtle and then by materialization As self-realization students know, in meditation, you see the astral light as a ring of golden radiance and at the center of five pointed If you can penetrate that star, you are immediately So learn to concentrate Though the spiritual man experiences and works through the instruments He does not identify himself He is always centered I never take my mind away from there, If you keep your mind there the calming from the astral world will make you Don't have restless, shifty eyes. If your eyes are always distractedly your mind is likewise wandering. Eyes that are constantly blinking reflect Keep your mind calm and centered not flitting restlessly in matter Your mind should If your and you keep your gaze you will experience the blessings That is why saints in ecstatic communion with upturned gaze, By concentrating on the spiritual eye one can penetrate into that Your astral body is there now, though and physical body are here. You depend on what you can see and that keeps you continually diluted. If you look into the spiritual eye, of everything and can receive the right You can use this power all the time. It is unlimited within you. When you live at will in that astral I am not giving you this lecture a desire for the entertainment The point is to awaken a limited mortal, helplessly subject You live, move, breathe, act because of your innate astral self This true incarnate nature is what I want Know yourself as connected Imagine. Affirm will meditate to realize your true cloaked in a wonderful astral form That thought alone, far energizes your life and accomplishments When I work, I concentrate I do it, then forget it And if I can't do it, Some people with their little home and little job are all the time Any person who is nervous If you are calm and happy, Always work from the astral world, and as soon as the physical world Get away and retire into inner silence. If you develop the ability you can remain in the calm state That ability shows the astral influence I can go to sleep at will. Even if cannonballs were flying around me, that is why it is necessary to meditate and live more in the consciousness In the physical world, there are You will go crazy Unless you can draw strength and guidance Just think, when you were a child But when you had to start out on your own, The way to fly away from your material is to have recourse to that astral world. Money does not make happiness. Having reasonable financial resources But your first necessity is to have God. I could make myself crazy this minute for this work. But there is a time for everything. My time with God comes first. I am ready to do everything for you, But my happiness I remain in his astral kingdom. That is my home. I am living on the earth in the house of his employer. I know my home is elsewhere. So must you live. Do not form attachments to this world. If you do, you are in for trouble. You are going to be sadly disappointed. This is not your home. The heavenly kingdom of God is your home. Live there now. No matter what you are doing, concentrate Keep your mind at the spiritual eye and keep your thoughts busy Meditate more. Turn the ether with your prayers. Until out of the silence, If you want to know God in this life, never go to bed at night If for one whole day and night Remaining in your room that God will come to you. He would definitely respond. But who is willing to give Such is delusion. The consciousness of outer duties and and you remain attached and limited Dear ones, do not forget the message Use it. Meditate deeply and regularly and you can fly through it to the astral Remain always in the sphere of happiness No matter what happens. Live in the consciousness Without fail, practice of the techniques of the Kriya This world is a terrible dream. I hope you all realize this I shall tell you how to get out of this Do not wait for one evil thought and one good thought So get busy with yourself. Then, at the end of the trail of life, the wonderful harmony, He is waiting for you. He is very much worried about you without your cooperation. Concentrate on that great peace within you and you will see all shadows of world And that behind this motion there is a heavenly astral world, Throw yourself at the feet of the Lord Cry to him. Cry for him until your head and your heart You must come reveal thyself to me. If you do not give up, He will awaken you from this dream world and lift you immortality, and freedom.