How did we get from this? -I didn't mean to at first. -Really, I didn't. To this: -&quot;it shot in L.A., and it paid so much&quot; &quot;and it was like there was this This is what Oscar winning acting -&quot;Take my advice. That guy's a phony. I didn't ask your advice.&quot; Compare that to what most acting feels like today: &quot;Is everything okay? Yeah. Why? You seem. I don't know, like something is. Everything's fine. Okay.&quot; -I don't think these performances from 'It They have a charming quality, are and they certainly fit the bill for what was expected from a But they also feel almost nothing like we expect a &quot;good performance&quot; to feel How did we get from here: &quot;All right. You've had your little joke No, Sam. No.&quot; To here: &quot;I'm standing around Waiting for a what? Waiting for you. Waiting for what? Waiting for you to get rid of me. -For much of the early part of film's and emotional authenticity Realism wasn't the order of the day, clearly enunciating dialog &quot;Gentlemen, And later playing the type that would reinforce your role Film writer Isaac Butler describes it believably applying your type to your films, whether it was the dashing Flynn or the hardboiled &quot;You boys find a gun on on Taylor when they So, for example, Bogart, right, when playing a role in &quot;The Big Sleep.&quot; &quot;I don't like people who play games.&quot; Or in &quot;The Maltese Falcon.&quot; &quot;And this will put you in Would not have been that concerned or creating a realistic performance Instead, his primary goal or type that he was known for while communicating the necessary emotion This kind of actor I think Tom Cruise is a good example. While he's capable of realistic character known for is not transforming himself for playing the type of guy and for the technical craft But this is kind of a dying breed. The Academy Awards don't really honor And Tom Cruise is often referred Instead, what is usually when an actor feels like We feel &quot;good acting&quot; is an actor who can play a range of characters when the performance feels so real that we're watching an actor &quot;Can makes something special for you. How do you like to feel?&quot; When we don't just know what emotion because we can see it on their face, or maybe even the actor really felt So what happened? Why does acting feel so different now? This video is sponsored by MUBI library of hand curated cinema Over ten months ago I dove into really to this question, But to really understand the last century, beyond the most surface more complicated than I thought I hope to untangle some of the complicated you better understand how acting works acting transformed from old Hollywood into the multifaceted, naturalistic form And I want to try to thread of telling that story but also without getting too lost acting teachers. &quot;Surrender to the soup, Barry. -I don't know what that means. -Let's pick To begin our story, let's go to the performance that is usually considered pivotal By the end of this video, several misconceptions but it still makes for a Now, out in the 1951 film, we can literally see the transformation theatrical style of Hollywood acting to the more naturalistic style Vivien Leigh, who won an Oscar recognizable as the representative What would you love these long, And Marlon Brando, recognizable as a more &quot;You know, there's some men Hollywood glamor stuff and there's -Brando's performance here and his Oscar winning performance would go on to widely be considered And in a sense, they certainly were. These performances acting that was taking place All right. Okay. No, no. But these performances are also the center and misunderstanding was allegedly using behind the scenes. We're going to have to address We need to talk about the boogeyman We're going to have to talk about... This is Robert De Niro's actual New York City Which he got while he was preparing for As a driving record. It's clean. It's real clean. Like my conscience. The acting teacher that De that &quot;if the actor can make the situations vivid and believable, then De Niro believe that if he of the life of the character what it was actually like then the emotion necessary out of this. Developing this understanding for De Niro included working actual shifts picking up and dropping off riders, of the criminal Arthur Beemer This kind of preparation for a role was For a role in banging the drum, how to play baseball, even further on Later projects De Niro spent a year hanging out with the real Jake LaMotta, He learned how to box, gained 60lbs and stayed in character on set, and crew to address him by the character's These tactics of trying to literally live that Robert De Niro are what we commonly refer to now &quot;When Andy steps no? -You mean me, I step in. You're playing Andy in this movie. -I know but you act like I'm And this approach has grown in infamy Other almost exclusively in Robert De Niro's footsteps Daniel Day-Lewis is perhaps the most to use this approach, and Jared Leto Daniel Day-Lewis has repeatedly gone He reportedly spent a month preparing for his role He made everyone on the set of Lincoln President. He caught pneumonia on the set of Gangs of New York And he spent two years learning dress, making for his latest and final film, Jared Leto, on the other hand, was allegedly doing things mates on the set of Suicide Squad Shia LaBeouf on the set of Fury refused to shower for eight months Many such stories abound about Jim Carrey, Whitaker, Christian Bale and others. The press and the Internet together this style of method the extremes actors But just as often, method acting has faced For example, Jeremy Strong's intense commitment and which involved at times isolating and showing up for work, cast member Brian Cox, who even said &quot;I worry about what it does to him.&quot; A Wikipedia article acting lists fear, anxiety, as potential harms and beyond the harm Many cast and crew members have talked can be to work with and the behavior this approach engage in under the guise can tip into the territory of cruel &quot;So I always say about people who do you only ever see people doing the method when they're playing an asshole.&quot; I think much of the criticism of working this way is completely valid. While an intense level of commitment has produced some great results that I love watching on screen. Just as many times actors might go to these intense lengths and the performance is remembered antics than actually for the quality of the performance itself. And while many actors who engage in this kind of acting feel that this approach is crucial in a performance, that we see out there that don't involve possible to do great acting without this I'm not bringing all this up I think that's been done The reason I mention all of this of American film acting without and where it came from. But that's complicated because. You're not a method actor, right -No You would say no to that. You? No, When Daniel Day-Lewis was asked about method acting, he said, &quot;I don't follow it.&quot; Nobody can get their story straight Isaac Butler, in his book how Lee Strasberg himself, with the method, criticized would call method acting Greatly distressed Strasberg. Speaking of Pacino, he said that an identity with him It isn't healthy. And Lee Strasberg was publicly criticized So what is going on here? The more I dug into this, Are these guys in What is method acting? Does it even exist? Why can nobody agree on what it is? Richard Brest off in his book says this about the methods The formula Lee Strasberg equals Marlon Brando acting genius. But that equation is hopelessly misleading Here: I'll get it. Is the real moment walked on to a film screen. It is this and it is coming. Mickey. But waiting for you It's John Garfield in the role of Mickey Garfield's performance, nomination at that year's Oscars, by today's standards. &quot;Say. This is no joke. These are good links.&quot; But if you compare it directly &quot;Modern tone forms I call 'em.&quot; The differences become more evident. Here. Where the other actors in the film with the kind of Hollywood theatricality There's a relaxed presence searching in his face that seems to betray It feels less like he's he is the character. It's a clear shift from what representational acting towards presentational acting, by Hagen's definition in her book, Respect for Acting. The representational actor deliberately chooses to imitate The presentational actor through a use of himself, and consequently an understood Instead of acting with the goal a specific emotion The presentational actor an emotionally realistic performance with the character and what the character Whatever technique he was applying, for this role in four daughters, that doesn't quite fit into the neat types and that at that time However, it's not Garfield, with giving the first method performance, It's not that difficult to see why. While you have to be paying attention Brando's performance loudly and boldly Ultimately, though, Garfield, who was taught by Lee Strasberg teacher, would have been and what Garfield was doing behind Get married. Would have had no resemblance ultimately taken by Robert or many of the actors that we label So what was John Garfield doing? Lee Strasberg, who called his teachings Asian exercises, concentration For example, an actor like a mug and Then the object would be taken away and the actor would be asked details of the object, These exercises had the goal imaginative capacity. method and its most controversial element involves Affective memory is sometimes oversimplified You know, like if you're trying to cry for a scene, &quot;Attach it to something that's real for me.&quot; &quot;-Right. Exactly. Have some some memory, some sense of mom or a dear friend.&quot; But the actual technique Instead of going into the past Strasberg taught his students and recall and recreate So, for example, they felt when they found out a close friend died, they wouldn't Instead, they'd remember where they were, they were in and the color of the walls and what they were wearing Some actors find that when recalling in as much detail as possible, And you can then repeat this exercise and over, conditioning yourself and feel that emotion. Then you could use the exercise for a bunch of different memories of easily accessible emotions that could For Strasberg, the well-trained actor emotional responses He placed emphasis on control the emotional material for a scene who would then channel and apply them Strasberg's method of affective memory but there were many who were also critical and there was a lot of concern by actors and recalling emotional events, some of which may be traumatic You can also imagine how this approach I've heard stories of acting teachers into a traumatic experience in their past, because they didn't While Strasberg himself and his method in their own right at the time. He never taught actors to actually make the fiction Isaac Butler recounts Strasberg saying, If you don't hit me, I won't get it. Well, that's not acting. Sure. What's the acting in that? The whole point is that I seem to hit you. And yet the way in which I hit you that you fall down and you are hurt, For the sake If I'm referring to the specific thing I'm going to call it going forms of the method, But how did Method acting come to mean laid out by Strasberg, but instead this Well, this is where we get to a second One of Strasberg students, one of the fact of memory, would go on This woman named Stella both Marlon Brando But while Strasberg and Adler's neither of them really were teaching They both taught their own interpretation of a set of teachings called the system. My sister Michaela. Gets this stuff. I'm going to call you back. Let's take a look at a scene from the Social Network and analyze The social Network tells the story In this scene, Mark Zuckerberg, the budding start out from the East Coast His business partner, Eduardo, to move to California right away Hey, man. Wait an hour for you at the airport. If we look at the script for this scene, it doesn't give the actors any direction for what emotion There's just dialog. &quot;What time is it? It's midnight So let's imagine we're Andrew Garfield. We're trying to understand what the character of Eduardo The first thing we might want to look at What is the character experience and the script? Where is he? Who is he? This can be everything from the fact when he shows up to the fact that Eduardo and Mark have known each To the fact that Sean Eduardo's business We also need to consider and how they relate to the story. A task is what the character We might consider that he's trying to help He's trying to keep things legitimate and above board This larger task has a sub task of convince Mark that Sean But we also want to consider tasks of the character, Perhaps in this scene, getting Mark to apologize There's more analysis we could do here, all the given circumstances, if those circumstances were true. And if I was Eduardo, what would I do? Suddenly, if we look at the script now and what he's trying to accomplish, the So when Eduardo says. Wait an hour for you at the airport. We understand but why he's saying it, and maybe even a feeling of betrayal later &quot;You got to move out here. Wardo -Did You hear what I just said? We understand that The emotional subtext of this line Why are you ignoring everything I keep Most importantly for this scene, we start to understand &quot;I'm afraid if you don't come out here, This sentiment from Mark threatens At the same time, with Mark, about being able So theoretically, if Garfield, puts himself in the shoes finds his rival unexpectedly at the house, or an acknowledgment from Mark not just unapologetic, Then the frustration and anger appropriate for the performance What went wrong? 100 plus, including five. And you're aware of that At least that's my probably inadequate analysis techniques Konstantin Stanislavski in the early 1900s. Stanislavski He called the system a way of approaching It's given circumstances, actions part of Stanislavski system. There is much more to the system we've already covered, like relaxation exercises But it would be impossible for me to detail It was an extensive collection which were constantly evolving It involved charts that looked like this. And this book here, an actor prepares, which Strasberg based is just the first of five volumes And it contains passages like this one. Our aim is not only to create but also to express it An actor is under the obligation and then give to his experience I ask you to note on the soul is particularly important Here's what Stella Adler, for teaching Stanislavski ideas in Don't read his book He came from a culture entirely alien Well, I think that's an exaggeration. Ultimately, Stanislavski himself was the ideal way to teach the ideas preferring instead in-person And yet, within this complicated, there was a set of ideas not just how some actors approach acting, about acting and even film and literature Something which I think puts into context has had not just on acting, Is the fact that the very term subtext meaning beneath the surface of a text David Birdwell in his book about how Stanislavski ideas and therefore the way even stories For Stanislavski, was to convey truth and realism Actors, in his view, what the characters were experiencing, experienced the role as they acted. It's not that there's no value to what we would often call theatrical Representational acting which grips you while you are watching But for Stanislavski that was possible Representational acting can manage to provide or give you the theatrically beautiful But when it comes to the expression it is either too showy or too superficial to really give this new style One that conveyed truth You might find yourself asking, How do you find truth Stanislavski says When everything on stage colors, makeup, costumes, What kind of truth is that? His answer is not in the external reality, He says, I don't need the truth out there. I need the truth in here. This internal truth is found by allowing the given circumstances, to become real If everything around me on This is how I would respond to this The system used both an interior approach relaxation, concentration and affective Strasberg taught and combined them which involved physical movement, to achieve the goal of realism or creating a presentational performance. Doing this, according to Stanislavski, Part of this intensity was grounded allowed the theater in Soviet that was deeper than what was subject The text of a play can be censored by the government, can't be what was communicated This truth that Stanislavski was after mere entertainment and become a piece What Lee Strasberg taught in his classes the method on was his interpretation And when Strasberg's pupil, Stella Adler, broke off from his class class, where she would teach Marlon Brando she was teaching her interpretation Adler placed more emphasis and other influential acting teachers Meisner, Robert Louis and Uta Hagen also Each American teacher emphasized but there was a core language and approach that can be found throughout all of them. Stanislavski ideas have basically part of the language people they've studied Stanislavski So when Margot Robbie studies the movements of a honey badger for her an exercise that can be traced back and which was taught When Daniel Kaluuya, in this interview, about the power of repressed emotion. Crying mix is heartbreaking. But seeing someone trying I mean, so is that kind of like I'm happy I hate this emotion. He's echoing Strasberg's approach to emotion then suppress it, find the emotion, Then hold it back When Billy Bob Thornton talks what the legal jargon If you don't know what it means audiences are not stupid. Once I knew what it meant, then you can. Then you feel like a lawyer. He's expressing Stanislavski idea the circumstances of the play the actions will stimulate the proper When Steven Yeun says the. Task is always as difficult to, I really live in their reality. He's reflecting again, Stanislavski. And when Don Cheadle talks teaching him to ask the questions ask themselves about a scene like. What's going on here? What's the text? What's the subtext? He's asking the same questions When Robert Downey Jr says, Here. Always know what your action is. Because then when you come in confident you can't hit your ass with both hands. He learned that from Warren Beatty, who learned it from Stella Adler, Nobody I just mentioned identifies of going method or engaging in the kind of process that DeNiro When Brian Cox, actor, criticized Jeremy Strong's He's playing out a rivalry between and the more British classical acting If you've heard people talk about method the story of Dustin Hoffman for three days to match the character's In response to this, his classically Olivier, famously said, My dear boy, Classically trained actors receive and have a foundation and performing But these days, most of them also receive training in Stanislavski teachings So how did Method what was originally just an interpretation come to refer instead Because Strasberg based his teachings on Stanislavski There's a tendency to conflate acting by Stanislavski with the method. Strasberg himself played into this. He tried to take credit even though Brando studied Brando, in his autobiography, said for teaching me how to act. He never taught me anything. To me, Regardless of the accuracy. However, the conflation of the two stuck. Once Marlon The public's understanding of what method from what Strasberg taught and shifted in Stanislavski, his teachings, with the type of guy Stella Adler, for her part, also completed Stanislavski had his method, and the method is something But also, she said, I'm one of 2 million She saw herself as passing But she also had no special love She claims once when an actor came to her he was a method actor, she interrupted him I don't want that around. It's So in the fifties when Brando was performing, even though nobody could really agree Both Adler and Strasberg were claiming but they taught different things To this day, As I write this, the Wikipedia article Stanislavski teachings Adler and Meisner together, The article list of acting techniques are also based on Stanislavski ideas, such as those of Stella Adler But these are not considered Here's the way Isaac Butler recounts it. Ever since Brando's ascension, comprising of Strasberg's teachings based on the law After De Niro, these two forms of method as elaborate tales of preparation, became a major component of media The method became synonymous with a baroque process transforms their body and refuses What was already a confused label when it was being applied when it became associated with De Niro's I think the new definition took over because while Stanislavski actual and easily be summarized in a news a role is very attention grabbing sounds If a group of actors are going in character and get up to a bunch It makes sense to have a name for that, acting just happened to be laying around It also just happens into the whole marketing When Jared Leto was doing promotion he was telling all these stories and then after he started he later said that a lot of it Was he just changing his story these stories up in the first place And further, as many of Stanislavski, went from being the novel new approach for how acting is done. Giving it a specific label became The problem, though, is that now when they could be referring to anything approach more broadly to the very specific, intensive approach One question I still had at this point, for the modern idea of going If what De Niro was doing wasn't the original method, Adler placed more emphasis This could mean anything from the way to what was communicated through She said Everything is based in actions. An actor develops That's With Adler's to try to bring up emotions Instead, like Stanislavski, she taught that if you imagined of the world, of the character the appropriate emotion What's important for understanding this, though, the commitment to the circumstances They both worked Committing to the circumstances imagine them It didn't mean actually recreating them, since that would have been impossible or trying to live So when De Niro learned to drive a taxi he was influenced by the stress of understanding the actions But again, what Adler's teaching here teachings in the book The Art of Acting, places more emphasis through observation and imagination However, while she never explicitly staying in character or other extremes I can definitely see how the way spoke she had about the craft might have pushed She treated acting Don't for any reason except death, Don't get a cold, don't get a backache It doesn't belong in theater. You must study the theater the way You cannot possibly use a sword with a specialist for at least six months. If we truly do these actions, If we're actually doing something, And I think when some of these ideas got there was a lot more room to try to make While performing on set and directors De Niro and those who followed in to commit to the circumstances It's a conceptually subtle shift finding the truth of a performance to trying to make the given circumstances But what the shift looks like in practice It's this more literal commitment that we now label going method. De Niro's in Adler's teachings But so do many, many other acting techniques used by actors today The fact that some actors have used going that end up being uncomfortable, abusive, for the film's cast and crew is something while separating it from the value his teachings and his influence And when these actors that go method I think there's probably one of two things On one hand, they might be trying to just dodge that method acting has gained, even though it's literally gave it a bad reputation Or some of them might be informed enough has basically no real relationship to Stanislavski or Strasberg's teachings. Stanislavski was a shit actor, didn't really know what the fuck I want to mention here that I think for trying to make the given circumstances I mean, it's not uncommon for actors to perform on a well-made set And it makes sense that the less you have to do about your environment, you have to direct towards making the But I think there's an obvious line what a good costume room or walk or set and trying so hard that you push the boundaries emotionally and physically for yourself Even a lot of what Adler taught when not taken to an extreme For example, Riz Ahmed spending Sign Language and how to play the drums We just met up every day for seven just speaking in ASL, Absolutely brought a depth and realism to that performance and which helps The story is about. I think this kind of work can be done respectful and sensitive That kind of work just doesn't tend to But anyway, my goal here is not to try to defend or to rescue the term After all the research and reading it seems like the term is far too If someone says method acting, to know what they mean And applying the term teachings to me I think what's more useful at this point, people think of method or anybody else really is a method actor, for influencing the history of film and talk about the specific influence ideas and teachings not just the way actors worked, that actors were trying to achieve So here, finally, I want to shift that is the method and towards actually changed acting forever. As I've been doing the research acting evolved. Most of what I see talked about we've been talking about so far, where they came from, who taught them But I think the techniques and actors were using Let's go back to that Brando performance These performances but there are multiple ways One common narrative you hear which produced realistic results. He gave a great performance, and so it's But what if the specific approach than simply the fact that he and director aiming for a different outcome than most actors in Perhaps what was most psychological realism And while there were others who had the same goal Brando just happened to be the first It's also worth there were some more naturalistic that weren't coming from The Method One example is this performance Exactly who you tell about them. I'd tell the police unwise and down. It was in the sixties and seventies, that was brought to the screen by actors Warren Beatty, Harvey Keitel, started gaining more attention And many of the actors in this time by Stanislavski and passed on through But as this was happening, was began to shift away and towards realism and naturalism This shift was supported towards realism and naturalism Adler Nowadays, we don't want artificiality, And that's why if the audience From a contemporary perspective, it's easy to think nowadays Wasn't realistic performance The answer is no, actually. Here's a story Uta Horgan tells in respect one actor had towards a realistic, French actor backstage and said, I apologize. It will never happen again. His approach to acting A genuine experience on stage that it would muddy or blur the acting. When film was born in the 1900s, realism and in the silent era, a film performance was expected to be more expressionistic A lot more had to be conveyed through expression And some of this carried over Most of the time in film, the actors that people expected to see in theater In the early 1900s, Moscow art theater It was the hot new thing. It began inspiring not just to teach his methods, in acting. By the mid 20th century, However, the influence towards realism was coming from many directions Around the same time, actors like Brando were bringing a new level of realism The influence of the French New Wave making its way into American cinema The new Hollywood directors, influenced by international cinema, from the old studio How movies were lit, And as all this happened. Equipment was improving. Lighter cameras, smaller newer film stocks and better audio outside of the studio environment which brought a new sense of realism More realistic acting simply fit better And at the time, if you were an actor wanting to learn most of the teachers were teaching Some of the teachers claimed best way to achieve But I think the reality is that more realistic results. While Strasberg Adler and Stanislavski on the techniques that many actors still use today they certainly don't have a monopoly These days, naturalism and realism sometimes see it used even in performances The inconstant moon or less that they love prove What should I swear by? Do not swear at all. To this day, this the wrong way to perform Shakespeare. But art, whether it's on stage It's constantly shifting good changes. Some of my favorite performers with incredible range and depth, subscribe Here's Sandra Huller, who gave two of the best performances &quot;Just do it.&quot; Paul Giamatti, who also gave one &quot;I've unlearned a lot of things, I realize about acting. Man, Robert Pattinson, who has given some great My only technique is sprinting up I'm not trying to devalue any teaching but my research on this topic to craft a narrative in this video for the evolution of acting on Filmmaking is a collaborative medium Their performances are shaped Writers, other cast members, What is clear to me is that Stanislavski that caused a seismic shift And it's certainly possible that the shift towards But if we uncouple the dominoes of acting history, many do lead back to the system. But even Stanislavski refused it's customary to call what we have been That is a mistake. The strength of this method lies precisely No one invented it. From the small amount of acting from watching a lot of performances, they were made and now reading a bunch My takeaway is really Like music, all you want, and learning music theory But what matters at the end of the day but whether the music connects Many of the best musical artists even though they inevitably employ Acting, The system is a reference book, Work on the system at home, on stage. Put it aside. You cannot act the system. There is no system. There is nature. And while the realism of presentational was the true goal and art of acting, and realistic performances the most evocative and deep performances That doesn't mean to more theatrical representational And even though there's been a seismic being the bar by which we judge who still give very theatrical You could possibly even make an argument that these types of performance is A lot of people profess an unironic love who I've rarely seen I love Mia Goss recent work and Pearl Cannes is hilarious and Barbie and perfect Willem of his role in the Lighthouse, and it was one of my favorite June Starchitect Winslow. And much of the acting in One of my favorite directors but many of these strike me as a unique blend between stylized There's a way psychological truth For example, Emma Stone's now Oscar in Poor Things might seem like it But is it? In interviews, I get the feeling just trying to represent the emotions She was just full of of joy and curiosity and a true love. That was an amazing and amazing lesson and to try to get to live And so I really miss playing her. I miss Bella. These are the kinds of things you would expect to hear from an actor to the given circumstances And it seems like there was, on some level the experience of being a child's brain even if the end result looks Like any art, an ever evolving mess of ideas and practices. What resonates deeply might feel stale, boring in another. The same techniques that have crafted and emotionally Not role requires the creation of the life of the human spirit, But when some actors do manage magically and artistically to capture that, Two movies from 2023 that I think capture both ends of the spectrum of acting Passages deliver some incredibly leaves, leans more into an anti But I think if you watched both of these, can convey Both of these movies in the U.S. are available exclusively on MUBI my sponsor for this video. MUBI with an incredible selection of movies You can find a great selection of arthouse classics, It's a great library to just explore that you can't find anywhere else, and also a tool you can use to expand Check it all out by going to MUBI.com/thomasflight where you can sign up for a 30 day That's right. You can give it all a try for free Just go to mubi.com/thomasflight I love MUBI It's a great resource for anyone who's interested in film com slash ThomasFlight Thanks again