- [Mr Beast] I built two massive circles and put 100 boys in one and whichever circle has more people after 100 hours wins $500,000 but if you touch the red - [Boy] We got that! - It's on! - I'm not leaving. Woo! - It is a team competition, The challenge is officially beginning. Whichever circle has the splits the half a million dollars - Even if we leave, if our - [Boy] That's sick! - [Boys Chant] Boys rule, girls drool! Boys rule, girls drool! - [All Girls] Boys, you suck! Boys, you suck! (teams continue chanting over each other) - Do any of you wanna leave? - [Boys] No! - Nobody? Oh my gosh, two people (group groans) Don't lie to us, why'd you get out? - So I told my girlfriend - Can we get a simp chant? - [Boys] Simp, simp, simp, simp! - How are you gonna keep - I got a lot of (growls) in - Brute force it. - Woo! - Are we really gonna stand - [Group] No! - You think if I left during - No, probably not. Wait, oh my God. - No, you are one of us! - Take two steps back Hey, what? What is going on? - I can't lose my job I just graduated. Hopefully you win five It's been 20 minutes and 5 boys It is not looking good for the boys and in case you're wondering, &quot;How will we know if someone Well, we have over 65 different cameras covering every square-inch and a team of people monitoring We will know if they're out. I have a present for you. He has no idea how to drive - Oh my God, this is not like the Wii. - Watch out, he's not forklift certified! - Woo! - You all now have a way to poop. All right, goodbye. - And now he's drifting the forklift. - Now the boys have a place to poop and the girls have a (dramatic music begins) - My cat is alone in my apartment. - Food, water? - She has food for like - I did not take off work tomorrow and I'm going to Chicago on Friday, I have a flight at 3:00 PM. - [Mr Beast] So many people expecting them later that which is exactly what I wanted to happen and why I didn't tell 'em anything about the challenge before we started. You said you're leaving - I have a baby. - Someone had to leave It's okay, it's okay. - We both have to leave tomorrow anyway. - Yeah, I'd like to still - One of the GoPros on the red lines caught something interesting. Gather around, gather around, my children. One of you got super close to the line and you need to decide - [Group] Ooh. - [Mr Beast] Is that out or in? - He's in! - Let me play it a couple more seconds. (group of boys groans) He stepped on the line anyways, he's out. A bunch of girls are leaving on their team winning without their help. The girls were destroying the boys and now the boys are in the lead. - Literally, another four just left. - $5,000 would change a lot - It would change mine! - We're girls, we can do hard things. - Clearly we're not. Honey, we left. (sad music begins) - 20 girls are out. - It sounds like a lot so that's good news, 'cause we don't have a clue how many are left. (upbeat music begins) - [Mr Beast] And now that the challenge, we brought You know, we gotta see who wants it more. - We're eating this oatmeal on this big pile of money right here. The oatmeal is not good though. - This oatmeal is psychological torture. - [Mr Beast] The boys lost The girls, on the other - Did you guys enjoy your food? - [Girls] No! - And I don't like raisins. - [Mr Beast] And how many raisins - About 20. - It is almost dead even, this is crazy. - We are all so close to each other. I look to my left, person. Look to my right, toes. - [Mr Beast] Throughout the first night, seven boys and nine girls left. The boys must have gotten - Our goal today is just to be louder and better than the boys. - [Girls] Three, two, one... (girls scream) (boy scream louder) - Morning. These are the troopers that Do you wanna know how many boys are left? - [Girls] Yeah! - I'll go count 'em, I'll be right back. I'm not coming back. 62 of you survived the Do you guys wanna know - [Boys] Yes. count 'em, I'll be right back. I'm not coming back. (upbeat music begins) I don't know why, but excited for their oatmeal. - [Boys] Oatmeal, oatmeal, oatmeal! - [Mr Beast] The girls, on - Oatmeal, yay. - You're gonna tell me that's good? - [Mr Beast] The contestants at this point, so the girls started creating stuff with the money. They made a money jump They even made these little money dolls and the boys, well... (boys cheer) - What is going on? - Mr. Beast, forgive us for our sins. - [Mr Beast] People were getting Some people got out on accident, some couldn't handle the pressure, and this girl got out to literally save another contestant's cat. - My cat will die. (cat meows) - I feel very accomplished. (upbeat music begins) - Do you know how long - [Girls] 24 hours! - Exactly, and as a reward... (claps) All right, take your blindfolds off. (girls scream) to cook their dinner in front of them. - It's showtime! (girls cheer) - 24 hours on oatmeal and this is perfect. - You know what I just realized? - What? - For the past two hours, we've been hearing the girls having fun. I'm literally going crazy in here. - Are you ready for the surprise? - [Boys] Yeah! The surprise is now here. (boys cheer) - I'm feeling good now. - I think I'm feeling good. - Eat your protein. (boys cheer) (glass shatters) - Attention! - [Boy] No! - Can you confirm that's you? (boys groan) (boys applaud) - [Mr Beast] Since not I let Karl and Nolan annoy the contestants while they were asleep. - We're gonna give the boys and girls a present from each other. Let's do this. - This is a present from the boys. (loud siren begins) Let's get out of here! - Is that a siren? - That's really annoying, even out here. (siren continues) - We should go now. (girls cheer) - They smacked it! - I can't take this much longer, man. - This is the worst day of my life. - The girls already turned theirs off. (siren stops) (funky music begins) - Morning of day three, it's 'cause no one has showers. We're still pulling through. - We have a loss of by this Muscle Milk here, our - [Mr Beast] Last night, that he has an important So Nolan got him a suit and a laptop so he could attend the call This seems like a bad idea. - Start us off by just telling us a little bit about yourself. - I'm an Elementary Ed Major. - Everyone get in the camera, and just... - I'm in a Mr Beast video right now, they're all behind me doing something. - Very committed. - What life lessons have you learned? - Party all day, party all night! - Kevin, you are keeping and I'm really proud of you. - I think he's gonna get the scholarship. - Bye y'all, thank you. - Kevin, Kevin! - I wonder what the guys What are y'all guessing? - I'm gonna start getting real rowdy. (screams) I might start losing... actually losing my mind. - It's been 43 hours for putting their body on which is why I custom hide it in that porta this pink Nissan that I'm gonna take the key and and whoever finds the keys first keeps the car. But once we got the porta potties placed, we sat and watched while without finding the keys. - Oh my gosh, she's walking out. - Oh, no keys. Oh, the second person went in. - Literally, any of them could - Oh, here she comes. Nothing. - [Mr Beast] It was taking the keys, so Karl checked and the key was actually gone. - Who has it? - Oh, he does have it, yes! (car horn beeps) - Oh, my God. I won't forget y'all, man. - And get him five grand to (horn beeps repeatedly) Then the boys were wasn't the only hidden So they started looking. - [Boy] And we just broke the glass, in hopes of finding - How does it feel to be the most destructive person in here? - Pretty fun. (funky music continues) - Everyone in both circles has (girls cheer) Yes, you're halfway and to celebrate, bring In front of the girls and in front of the boys It's a race to see which team can solve all the Rubik's cubes first. Well, whichever team loses, (girls gasp) - I don't even know how to do this. - Solve the white side and - [Mr Beast] We didn't started that only one boy... Oh, they're literally handing it to him... and only one girl actually knew Out of all these guys, he's the only one that learned how to solve a - Oh, I'm not leaving. - And while the teams are I wanna tell you about Current. - The first one's done! - Only 99 more to go! - Current is the mobile banking app that's changing how money works. Old banks hit you with all kinds of fees, but Current has no monthly fees and is all about saving you money and what makes Current different is they give you 4% Does your savings account - Yes, 'cause I use Current. - Oh wait, you actually do. He actually does. Six have been solved. Eight Rubik's cubes - I'm trying my best. - The white side needs to - 25 done. - And if you do your direct you can get your money Since the boys were getting I decided to make things interesting. We're gonna offer the one guy in there that knows how to solve them I love how he's still solving. We got $10,000 right here, you can just walk out the circle. - [Boy] Do it, do it. - I'm out. I would leave. (boys groan) - $10K is $10K! - The boys were blowing I paid the one guy who knew Now, if you don't win, So win for me. - You're almost halfway done, - [Mr Beast] Current is 100 of you will win and use the code Beast250 to enter. Even if you don't win the $250, I'm gonna be personally giving you a gift to every single one of and use this code right So if you haven't already, and download Current right now. - Give me another one, I - Go faster Zeke, you're making me mad. - This is the last Rubik's cube. Bro, he's shaking. I really hope the girls (intense music begins) Oh my god! Chris, you might wanna move. - All right. The girls' circle is cut in half, because they lost the Rubik's and the only girl that knew how to solve a Rubik's cube ended up leaving. Hopefully all of her - I did 96 Rubik's cubes but I still lost. - [Mr Beast] With the I wanted to find out which - This is an empty briefcase. I'm gonna put it outside the circle. Let's see if we can get somebody out. - [Boy] What do you - All right, let's go. - [Boy Participant] No! - I did it, yay! - The briefcase was empty. (laughs) - [Mr Beast] Then Nolan - [Boy] Oh! - Please take your briefcase. - [Mr Beast] And tricked the boys again. - And I got cereal. - [Mr Beast] And again and again when one boy got out trying to grab it without leaving the circle. - [Boy] Go for it. - At least you got what (boys groan) - [Mr Beast] So, of course they tried the same trick on the girls. - [Girl] If there's no money, you're gonna look like an idiot. - Yeah, I am. - All right. The girls are clearly - It's 1:00 AM, we're - They cut our circle in half (girls giggle manically) and we're losing it. - [Mr Beast] I can't After three days, both of winning the half a million dollars. It's officially hour 70. How many girls do you - [Boy] 20. - 20, so you don't even think On day four, one of the girls said she had a surprise for me. - I found some car keys in the porta potty and we don't wanna tell the other girls 'cause we don't want them to freak out. - Okay, give me one second. Here is your brand new car! (girls scream and cheer) Hey, if Chris scratches You don't have to get your brand new car's right there. - I'm definitely staying in. That's dedication. I have a podium with a giant red button, I'm gonna put it in there and say nothing. Let's see if anyone presses it. (dramatic music continues) - What does the button do? - Cuts their circle in half. - This is so suspicious. - We're playing it cautious, (boys protest) - He didn't even explain what it was and that boy instantly pressed it. - All right, gentlemen, do - [Boys] No. - It cuts your circle in half. - No! - All right, well I'm Any of you press this? - [Girls] No. - [Girls] Boys suck, boys suck! - How we feeling? - Yeah. - You wanna just clap once for me? (boys clap) And now the room is painted. One of the girls convinced our camera guy to borrow a drone to spy on the boys. - We have the controls to the drone and we're flying it over to the boys. Oh my God, dude. - Oh! - We almost saw into the boys. (dramatic music begins) - [Man] Look at this dude. (laughs) - [Mr Beast] And on night four, we decided to let them because tomorrow we'll - We're 85 hours into this - I don't plan on leaving, there's no way. - I don't think many of us will last. I think the girls are winning. (dramatic music continues) - [Mr Beast] For the final we split each of the There is now 10 hours and 10 zones in your circle. So just so we're clear, if you touch these red lines, you're out. And every hour, they have to decide which section to block off. - And I think this one (girls agree) - [Mr Beast] Which led to some pretty interesting conversations. - We can fit nine in the porta potties, so we can get real close. - All right, boys, oh, - [Boy] We picked so quickly. - [Boy] Yeah, we're blocking this off. - Final decision? - This one? (dramatic music continues) - The fact that it's is so statistically improbable, It's been an hour boys, Wait, the money pit? They seem very confident and - That side. - It's time. - [Girl] That one! - Boys, what am I spray painting? - [Boys] No more pit, no more pit. - [Mr Beast] With only four hours left, the teams were going over how to best use the remaining space. - There's no way we can - It's the money pit or the porta potty. - If we come... if we do cut it down, we have - [Mr Beast] Then this happened. - Boys, boys, boys. Change the lights. I think you can guess what this means. You'll see a finger drag across (boys groan) Xavier, you clearly touched it. Not only did Xavier get after he stepped out of the porta potty. Look at all your reactions afterwards. There's actually a third. Who is that, good sir? Come here, good sir, I'm sorry about that. Boys, salute! - We're losing people If we cut that out, then we're good. - [Mr Beast] After that, and made it until the last It is officially the last hour. So Chris, get to work. Well, there's a pile of a bunch Oh my gosh, how many are in there? This last hour will determine who gets the half a million dollars in cash. (dramatic music begins) - We're gonna make it. - I just hope 33's enough. (dramatic music intensifies) - [Boys] Boys, boys, (dramatic music intensifies) - [Boys] We will win! - Ladies and gentlemen, the Meet me in the middle of the dome. (boys cheer) - [Boy] Let's go! (girls scream and cheer) - When we started, we had 100 These are all that remain. After 100 hours, we have (girls scream) - [Girls] Girls, girls, - Congratulations, they just - 35. Two people. - My friend's gonna be so proud of me. - If you haven't already subscribed, we're closing in on and it would mean the world to me. Should they subscribe? - [Girls] Yeah! - I really wanna hit 100 million, hit it if you haven't already. MrBeast6000, oh