In this video I'm going to show you 10 crazy, Notebooks, pens, school bags, pencil cases Check it out! Hey guys! It's almost time for school! Yeeey... I hate school. OK, I know that going back to school may not got to admit that preparing for new school a pretty exciting part. And this year I want you guys to have the I put together the most crazy, unique, epic I'm going to show you 10 ideas and Sue from Her video will be linked at the end of this But let's not wait any longer, because school We're going to kick off with this epic bottle It's hard to imagine that it's actually made Take two bottles, a zipper, glue gun and scissors. Cut your first bottle right below the point This is just below it's neck. The second bottle needs to be cut much lower, When both bottle pieces are ready it's time Place it on a flat surface and apply a bit While the glue is still soft, stick on the Apply the glue all along both sides of your Then simply roll both bottle parts down so That's it! If your zipper is too long, you can cut away with this awesome pencil case. I love how inexpensive this DIY is plus it's To make your new pencil case even more epic These pens are so unique, pretty and sparkly But hey you gotta make your own! And relax I got your back because I'm going liquid pens with a lava effect. I know - awesome, just awesome. To make these magic pens we'll need a transparent glitter and a glue gun. Take a pen that should be about as wide as Unscrew the front part of the pen, take one Fill the front of the pen with a bit of glue Grab your pvc pipe and apply some glue on Quickly stick in the front piece of the pen. You can also screw it a bit so that the glue Now it's time to mix together the liquids! Take a bit of food coloring, I went for orange, Use a syringe or a funnel to pour some of Fill it about half way. The most exciting part to me is adding glitter. So go crazy and pour a lot of glitter in the I went for several colors like dark blue, and stars. Yep a full on party in a pen! Suck some baby oil into a syringe and use Apply hot glue all around the edge of the Make sure that you are using a glue with a waterproof. Lastly cover the opening with the end cap Yay, we are all done with this gorgeous glittery, What a mouthful. I also made one in pink and blue, so pretty. I wanted to make mine extra crazy so I used make yours shorter. Like this one for example. How cute right? I seriously think these pens look amazing When I said we're making crazy and weird DIYs The next one is a notebook made using potatoes! I remember making potato stamps in primary but really cool painting method! You need a notebook, a piece of white card-stock paint, paint brush, and a black permanent Take an inexpensive notebook and stick on other glue of your choice. Place a piece of white card-stock paper on to be decorated. For the watermelon notebook, cut your potato Cut it again to get a potato quarter, which Squeeze some red acrylic paint from the tube. Use paint brush to apply it on one potato Press the potato on your notebook cover to I like how this stamping technique makes the I think it looks so beautiful! Besides the red watermelons I also want some Using orange acrylic paint and another potato empty areas of the notebook. OK, now let's make these red and orange half-circles Dip your brush in green paint and draw a line Leave a bit of white in-between to make it For the finishing touch grab a black pen or watermelon slices. This detail really brings the design together Watermelon is such a pretty fruit - I love Plus I like how it reminds me of summer and All these facts combined, this notebook just You can make any kind of shape using potatoes. Here I made triangles stamps from the potato Put on a bit of acrylic paint of your choice. I'm going to use three colors and the first Press it on the notebook cover and there you My next color is pink, then a blue and repeat. I went for the pattern where every other row You can see that even if you're bad at free beautiful creations using paint. You really can't mess it up with potato stamping! I honestly had such a great time making these You know what they say. One man's trash is another man's treasure. I'm going to show you how you can make an Hehe no, out of your favorite candy bag. This DIY is so much fun and let's be real, You'll need a bag of candy, duct tape, glue Take your scissors and trim away the upper Flip it around and make a vertical cut along Next step: Eat all the yummy candy! Just kidding, you can totally save some for Now you need to decide how big you want your I want mine quite small so I'm cutting away eight inch square. Take some duct tape or washi tape and use This will make our pencil case more sturdy Grab a zipper and place it on a flat surface. Apply a stripe of glue along one side. You can use hot glue or any other glue that Stick the candy wrapper sheet on like that. Flip your work around and temporarily fold I'm using some hair clips to help it stay Apply a stripe of glue along that side of up to stick it in place. This is what we have so far! Unzip the zipper and flip your pencil case Glue the sides together like this. It is really important to have the pencil never be able to flip it inside out! OK, the glue has set so flip your work around Isn't this the cutest thing ever? Candy bags are always so colorful and pretty. And the fact that you can turn the wrapper case is just the best thing ever. With this one you would totally win school's existed. Desk organizers out of old jeans? I told you we're making weird DIYs today. This one is super easy and handy. You know when you are making shorts out of Well this is a great DIY that makes use of We're gonna need the bottom part of any jeans Start by cutting about seven inch long piece Flip it inside out. Take a glue gun and apply a stripe of glue Fold the edge up and hold till the glue sets. Apply a bit more glue and stick the back piece Now we are left with a little pocket. Turn it on one side and fold it down like Apply a drop of glue on the bottom corner Do the same on the top corner but this time Flip the pocket basket or whatever you wanna I like to roll the top edge down as I think To jazz up these organizers I decided to stick You can also use badges or fabric markers They look so adorable and they are super handy You can put in your pens and pencils or other These jeans pockets will keep your desk tidy so they're a perfect little desk decor. I love this DIY because it's so creative and It will only take you a few minutes to make at home. You need an old lipstick, a pencil and a small Pull the eraser out of the pencil's ferrule. Now roll a piece of parchment paper around Secure it in place with a piece of tape and Next we gotta melt our lipstick. Make a double boiler, take a piece of lipstick Optionally you can also add some glitter, Wait for the lipstick to melt. Give it a little stir and pour the mixture I like to pour it up to a quarter or half Finally we can unwrap the parchment paper I think it turned out so cool and I love all I also made one blue lipstick pencil. And I have a tutorial on my channel on how different methods. You can tell how how much I like these lipstick Look at this galaxy inspired one - so gorgeous! You never know when a cute guy will walk into you ready at all times. I'm kidding, with or without lipstick you are just as beautiful. But this is a really cool DIY and you'll be pencil, which is quite awesome. This is probably one of the coolest backpacks You can make this beautiful snapchat rainbow backpack that you own. We'll need a backpack, paint brushes, and First I like to sketch the design on my backpack. You can skip this step and paint directly hand painting is not my thing. Alright, time to grab the fabric paint! For the lips you can use any color like red, I went for red, since red's a classic. I get asked a lot about the fabric paints And yes, fabric paint is completely washable. So no worries if rain catches you on your Of course we want our backpack to have a big in white. To make the edges neat and precise rest your There we go, a perfect smile! For the rainbow vomit... eww, that doesn't rainbow waterfall or just rainbow-fall. Anyway for the rainbow feel free to use any I don't have a violet or orange fabric paints I'm just gonna use what I have. So I colored the first wavy stripe in pink I could also mix blue and pink to get a purple little bit different rainbow waterfall. You can use any kind of fabric backpack for It could be white or a darker one like mine I actually think that this colorful design The rainbow is done and the backpack looks If you look at the snapchat filter, you can there on the rainbow. So dip your brush in white and draw a bunch A flat stiff brush works best for drawing Voila, our backpack is complete and I couldn't I think it looks so cool, unique and trendy! Awesome backpack can be very expensive, while So this year make your own dream school bag! You'll save some money and have a lot of fun Who should we examine today? Actually, we don't have time today... Let's continue with lessons. School can get very stressful and nerve wracking! So I had to include an easy DIY stress ball Even if you're not at school - these are To make your own stress ball all you need Turn the heat on and pour about 2 deciliters Add a spoonful of corn starch. Keep stirring until the mixture thickens and Take the mixture from the heat and pour it Now blow your balloon, I chose this yellow Something like this is more than enough. Twist it a couple of times to prevent the opening like this. To fill up the balloon simply turn the bottle You may need to shake it a little to make Pinch the balloon at the top and pull it from Let the air escape from the balloon so you You can make your stress ball smaller or larger We' re finished! This is so satisfying and squishy. You can also tie a short piece of string around school bag. That way you have it on hand whenever school And I also think it looks very nice as a little Anyway, whether you still go to school or DIY to make. For all you cereal lovers I have a fun DIY We're going to transform them into pretty What we need is some wrapping paper, cereal First you have to cut your cereal box diagonally Now take a wrapping paper of your choice. I went for this bright green one. To cover the cereal box, start in the same The only difference is the top part where Here I like to make four straight cuts going As soon as you feel that you have reached Lastly fold the wrapping paper inside the You can also secure it in place with a piece There we go, our cereal box organizers are I also made one using hot pink wrapping paper, in my room. I think they look very pretty on the desk, What an easy and inexpensive DIY, right!? Sara! You're sleeping again?! Let me present you world's most gorgeous and sleeping pillow. You know like water bed, this is a water pillow. I am completely obsessed with this glittery Even though this DIY looks out of this world For your own glittery liquid notebook you paper, glitter, food coloring, baby oil, and With a help of an exacto knife and a ruler, the cover. I placed a cutting sheet under the cover to We are left with a notebook cover that looks Set that aside and let's now work on our waterproof Put two transparent acetate sheets into the Take an iron and iron along the edge. Heat will melt the plastic and seal the sheets One side is done, we still have to melt these When the plastic melts it turns white. This is when I know that the edge is 100% The most exciting part of this DIY is making Grab two glasses and fill up the first one Take a bit of food coloring, I went for the Grab any kind of glitter or sequin of your Then just take a moment to admire how pretty No joke, when I was filming this, I totally liquid for 10 minutes, because it's just beautiful! Ok let's continue. With a help of a funnel, pour the glittery Oil and water don't mix, so together they To make our liquid pocket completely waterproof, Do that in the same way as earlier using a There we have it - our liquid glitter pocket let's quickly stick it on the notebook. Take a glue gun or other glue with a good of your notebook cover. Last step is to stick it on the liquid pocket amazing notebook my eyes have ever seen. I wanted to make mine look like a galaxy so and sequin. I think being generous with glitter really You can find a great selection of inexpensive They have all the possible colors too. I'm kinda tempted to make these notebooks like I just need them in my life. Don't spend a lot of money on pretty school Because you can make so much more epic and buy in a store. That's it for this video. I hope you guys liked it and give it a big video on my channel. Also, tell me down below when do you start different from country to country and I really Make sure to check out Sue's video for more - subscribe to her channel. I've been watching her videos for years and Thank you so much for stopping by, I love Bye! Whether it concerns school supplies or life way and stand out. Because that's exactly what makes you so special