This time, it is located in Higashi-Shinbashi, Tokyo. We took a closer look at "Bento no Kawano" Preparing the minced meat for the minced meat bento Today's fish is Gindara, a high-quality ingredient. (Today's preparation starts) at 0:15. I'm already sleepy The owner, Mr. Inoue, works every day after midnight. He prepares over 800 meals by himself. (I've been working here) for about four or five years now. Thank you for the long time no problem, do not mind I'm a hard worker Daily special rice bowl with golden sea bream, oily flounder engawa, and whelk shellfish Today's bowl is complete This is rice cooked with japonica, burdock root, and fried tofu. It looks like this This is a sample Like this Take a photo of today's lunch and post it on your blog Today's fish is miso pickled silverfish. Prepare side dishes Lunch box is 600 yen Packing side dishes in bento boxes in preparation for the start of business fry the fried chicken fry minced meat Preparing lunch boxes one after another The side dish macaroni salad is completed Spinach with sesame sauce Boiled fried eggplant Pack your reserved lunch boxes before the store opens. The rice is specially cultivated rice from Miyagi Prefecture. We use carefully selected rice that tastes better when it cools down. Made by the shopkeeper's daughter Surprisingly low prices for side dishes at 100 yen I love that you can choose between brown rice and white rice. daily soup Iberian pork soup with eight ingredients This pork soup is packed with vegetables and makes your body happy. "Extremely delicious!!" Opens at 10:30 There was a line even before the store opened. Customers started coming in one after another soon. welcome thank you We will continue to make bento boxes even after the store opens. Cooking over 200 kg of rice per day Cooking continues from the start of preparation just after midnight. We will continue to make bento boxes even after the store opens. Cook rice one after another Bowls sold out 30 minutes after opening Cook brown rice one after another 11:40am The line outside the store is growing. Line of around 30 people Lunch boxes are selling like hotcakes It's past 12:00 and the line is getting longer. Line of around 60 people There are even more lines during peak hours The lunch box shelf that used to be on the wall has become deserted. After that, sales continued and there were only a few bento boxes left. Cleaning up started when the store was almost sold out. What matters most is It's scary if you make a mistake when it comes to food. Because it's a matter of life The best thing to do is to avoid accidents. Bento shops are different from other restaurants. The time you have to interact with customers is fleeting. Under these circumstances, we received opinions and connections on SNS. I would really appreciate it if you could say something nice about it. Some of our customers have been coming to us since they were new employees. There are people who have been in this area longer than me. Those kinds of people bring their juniors with them. I think it makes me happy to hear about people getting promoted. Because the price is low, it's a good value I definitely don't want to use strange ingredients or fake things. So in that part We sometimes purchase small quantities every day. I created it based on how I would feel if I were a mother. When thinking about menus etc. For example, it's summer and I'm getting tired, so I'll eat eel. For example, maybe it should be a little more salty. Just like a mother would make for her children and husband. I made it with the image of making it for the person I love. I also want to do it with side dishes that can take center stage. It's not a bento where you don't know which one is the main character. It seems like Gindara is the main character today. I would like to make a bento like that.