Of all the rabbit holes I get stuck in I don't know any quite as powerful Seeing beautiful patterns from above... Dropping down into street view... And seeing the planet in ways I would never So when I came across this post on Reddit, It described "undocumented markings" in near a location called "Tebalbalet tomb." Visible on Google Earth. There were 22 of them, each with 12 420 meters apart, at longitude 4'20 East. It almost sounded like a joke. But then I copied the coordinates and I looked. There they were: identical circles in an almost 160 kilometers from any signs of life in the in the middle of the biggest country in Africa. This is a story about the limits of what you About all the different ways of And about going all the way there. Over the course of the last 20 weeks, as we tried to figure out one thing... What could these circles be? So this whole story starts back when I first saw the Reddit post. I wanted to figure out what and make a video out of the entire No matter how long it took. Because the answer had to be out there. And, step one, I knew I was going to have For weeks, I reached out to everyone Algerian experts, officials, tour groups... even the closest hotel, in a city I read up on the town the circles were located I asked the commenters on the Reddit post... and we even tracked down a Twitter account who posted this question to several subreddits I tried English and French... organizations, academics, locals... And then... I waited. But there was one easy thing to clear up first. Were these circles real? Or were they just some kind of So I asked a teammate who Sam, he produces our series Atlas. And he pointed me to the company that takes for Google Earth: Maxar Technologies. I feel very confident that those are indeed because we see them in multiple images So, I know it wasn't an artifact of the processing And then a colleague of mine who has spent said, "You know, this is a very rich area "This looks very similar to what we see Oil radically changed the course &quot;Oil from the wastelands of the desert...&quot; &quot;And it's believed that the Sahara is immensely rich in it.&quot; When oil and gas were discovered there against the backdrop of a brutal Today, Algeria is one of the world's top What Steve is talking about here where geophysicists analyze the Earth's surface Depending on how those seismic waves researchers can tell what resources can be Steve thought that, maybe, seismic pulses could produce something like this. So, we had a hypothesis. But I wanted a second opinion. So I asked Bob Hardage at one of the world's leading experts He responded by email: "I can assure you with 100-percent the features in this imagery used in oil and gas exploration." First, the shapes themselves weren't right. "...there will be hundreds of thousands as either a single straight line or as hundreds of parallel straight lines." I looked up pictures from NASA and you can see what he means. Second: the fact that we could even see them "... the objective is to leave the landscape &quot;If a seismic crew created something like a return visit would be made "I have no idea what the circles &quot;Whatever they are, the people who wanted those features to be permanent." "Closeout: I don't think we need to chat." Thanks Bob. So I kept Googling. I found geotagged pictures from the nearest on a site called mapio.net. These old stone wells sorta looked like But reverse image searches were a dead end. I didn't know what to do next. So we looped in Vox video's senior researcher, So, I was trying to find what this thing was. I don't know if you remember he calls it the Tebalbalet tomb. Do you remember that? So I found this article. This is from like 1985 -- I mean, The "Well of Tebalbalet" is at the And that's approximately where what And it says there are two circular tumuli. I had to Google that, I don't know that word. -Tumuli. What's a tumulus. Tumulus. It's an ancient burial mound. Which seems... that sounds about right. "... encompassed by two concentric mounds &quot;The two rings are respectively 30 and 21 So a document from 1885 said that, around 1) a bunch of wells, and 2) tombs with "rings of great regularity." Now, the sketches weren't an exact match. But they got us thinking: what if these things So I sent the pictures to a Tunisian archaeologist We spoke in French because of decades of French French is still used in many contexts And she had a new clue. [in French] These monuments, they are [in French] because I know Ain Salah very well... [in French] These monuments are related to... [in French] Water. [in French] It's a desert environment, it's the [in French] It is practically the hottest place [in French] It's an area which is very well known for the difficulties of this heat there, [in French] So the people, they dig. [in French] It has a name: the Foggaras. Foggara. It's the North African name for a 2,500-year-old that goes by many names, but is often called Builders dig a well at an deep enough to tap into groundwater. They then dig parallel shafts These provide air flow for diggers as they all the way back to the main well. With a slope of 1 or 2 degrees, the channel powered by gravity alone. In a part of the world with barely any rain this technology can provide water year round... making human-made oases possible. [in French] It's curious, eh? This was the most promising lead yet. It explained the desert location, the circular Even the closest municipality's name, And those mapio pictures of wells But I wanted to run it by more people Qanats are actually more than just I think they are the very raison d'etre: the basis of habitation in such harsh climates. They start from outside of the city, into the city or into agricultural lands. But when it came to our circles... I have no take on it, honestly. I'm looking at it now. Right. Okay, that's interesting. There's something like 20 of them in a row. Yeah. So that's definitely a foggara. So at the end of that, there should be a town. There should be an oasis or something. But if there isn't, that means that probably or foggara has dried up since a long time. You should talk to Dale Lightfoot. He is the American geographer who knows everything about qanats. These are what we're looking at. I couldn't even say with confidence whether But I can tell you they're definitely not We also found these pictures. Do you think these could be What you're showing me pictures of here I've seen these in a lot of places. To me, this is not the same thing. I think you're back to square one. Back to square one, indeed. Don't rule out space aliens. I've heard they do crazy things, too. So they might be wells, but probably not a And maybe not even related to water at all. Could we at least rule that out? That's when Melissa found a database of With lists of the people who help manage Like Mohammed Brik, a farmer in I don't think it was done to fetch water. Because the point of going out is to meet the needs of the population and agriculture. If there's nothing for 160 kilometers then that's not a valid hypothesis. Right. Because there is no village, no... There's no village. There's no garden. There's no oasis. There's nothing planted. There's no population. We were three months in and it seemed like was probably out. Then I got an email. Back in early October, Steve Wood high-res images from Maxar's archive. Finally, we had them. It was the clearest look we'd had yet. And Steve believed it showed a new detail: If that was right, it would mean someone had I kept asking people. Historians... Algerian officials... Archaeologists... And nearby residents... But after a while, I felt stuck. Like we had exhausted what we could find out And there was nowhere else to go from here... except to the circles themselves. The longer this project went on, the more We could keep interviewing more and more people, and ultimately have no way to back them up. Or... we could figure out a way to get someone Try to film it... and then, maybe, we could know for sure. So I asked my teammate Christina -- who works if she knew anyone in Algeria. And that led us to Samir Abchiche, a video I'm about to be a dad. So no more adventures for me after this. We hired Samir to be our on-the-ground journalist... to use his expertise in the area to help us The next part took months. We knew this wasn't going to be We were asking him and his team to go do something potentially dangerous. But Samir took this story into his own hands. He was obsessing over every hypothesis, figuring out all the details of how to get 15 hours away by car to Ain Salah and then deep into the desert Finally, Samir figured out how And at 7 pm on a cool February night, he and set off. And it begins. Shit. It does not begin. We can't find a hotel. They're all closed. And we're going to try Hotel El Djanoub. We have the Royal Suite. I just woke up. It's starting to get super hot. There's no service. It's yellow everywhere. But it's beautiful. Yeah, but it's beautiful. Which way to Ain Salah? 300 km to Ain Salah. 150 km. All we've seen is the horizon. They'd already spent 24 hours driving Now, they had to go another 160 km from But they had to pick someone else up first. Farid Ighilahriz, an archaeologist national archaeological research center and managed one of Algeria's largest He's here to help the team identify How are we going to do this without cell service? No no, I made a map. From there, they prepared. They got groceries... Bought fuel... Interviewed local officials... Planned the GPS route... And they assembled a team. A driver, an archeologist an assistant, and a desert guide. It's right about here that I lost communication And I wouldn't be able to hear from him With, hopefully, a definitive answer. No sandstorms, so that's good. That was making us nervous yesterday. It's still a bit risky, because nobody passes through this way. Almost nobody. And we're just two SUVs. This one is reliable, the other one, we don't really know. What's weird is that as the crew got closer They started finding signs pointing to every First, tire marks from seismic survey trucks... Then, a well system... Water is always just three meters below. And finally, ancient tombs. We just saw something from far away. Yep, it's a tomb. There's another one. So this is a tumulus. It's one of the oldest kinds of funeral monuments. And on the morning of day two, they checked We're going roughly in the right direction. So we're 11 km from the first ones. I think we found them... False alarm... Did you see? We are approximately Let's go! We got really excited, but they weren't there. Apparently they're just 500 meters away. We're not far. Right there, you can't see anything. You can't see anything. Right there, yeah? 10 ... 11 ... 12 .... There we go, we have After 160 kilometers of driving off-road in they were there. The 22 circles, all in configuration. They were surprisingly faint. You might not notice them if you happened As Samir and the team explored the area, they And the next ones. This one's a bit clearer. The hole comes out of the ground. And a lot of them had something in common... metal wires. They're connected. And there ... Come see up close... ...they run underground. Can I dig a little? No, no no. Not here? No. Sorry. So maybe they dug just a little bit... It's dynamite. Okay. Under these little mounds was dynamite. But here we have something else, too. We call these &quot;attachments.&quot; It's what you'd put around a wooden crate. That's how they must have brought in the dynamite. That inscription reads SOTEMU -- that's the "Tunisian company of explosives But one of the wires looked different It still had a yellow plastic coating. This is where it got a little scary. Is it possible... Was this one not detonated yet? Well get out of there, don't stand there. Be careful. We gotta tell everyone to be careful. Eventually they decided that the dynamite was probably harmless, because it would have So they started to dig. It must go down at least a meter. But it was buried quite deep. So, at some point, to be safe, they stopped. And then they found a clue no one Farid? Ah, yes. Bricato... Francais... &quot;Made in France.&quot; Old cans of sardines and tuna. Here we found a little tin can. That was used for food... ...by those who worked here... ...who carried out this exploration. Oh, there's color. Whoa... This could be the solution. So we knew what it was: dynamite, And when Samir and the crew finally got home... I called him to hear all the details. My English, is it work for this? Yeah, it's perfect! We think that we have--we know the solution. So it's a method of searching for petroleum. But it was an old technique. At the very beginning of this journey, that anyone ever suggested. Is that it had to do with searching for petroleum. Which is crazy that it's finally confirmed. It's the same thing that they do today instead of more finely tuned technology. This is crazy, this is so much more wild Ironically, it put us right back right Seismic surveying. The circles are the remnants of surveyors This whole time, that first guess was right. But only sort of. Because Bob Hardage at the University of Texas that this doesn't remotely resemble seismic Because this isn't how seismic surveying It's an older technique, from the early that uses dynamite explosions instead The explosions would provide the seismic waves ground underneath and that would tell surveyors that something was underground and worth digging for. The circles looked like this because of the happening underground. From this moment, a new question came. Who did this and when? Knowing it was a seismic survey wasn't enough. But we had one other clue from the sardine cans. I reached out to Saupiquet which seems to be the only one of these companies but they said they couldn't identify So I found someone who's been collecting for over 40 years: Philippe Anginot. He even made a museum out of it. And I showed him the pictures. What we have here is what's called a three-body So these are typical cans from the 1960s. After 1960 the "Arsene Saupiquet Cannery" became the "Saupiquet Company." When it's still labeled &quot;Arsene,&quot; it's from So because this can was labeled Arsene Saupiquet, changed their name in 1960. Because of its 60s-style "three-body" late 1950s. Granted, this is canned food, so it's possible actually eaten. But I think we can safely guess that these by an oil exploration crew sometime All that was left was to figure out who those Before going into the desert, Samir recorded along the way. And there was one interview with someone who in the late 1950s. The father of the desert guides, Peace be upon you. Here are the photos, Belhadj. I see the small holes placed like the hands When did the drilling of [that area] take In 1953, the vehicles came to Djebel So this place existed and a Yes, it is true. What were they doing. I know that they were digging, that's all. What was their name? I no longer remember. But I believe CREPS. I know that, at that time, CREPS was CREPS -- a French acronym for the Sahara was a joint venture between CREPS had a permit to explore and extract from 1953 to 1958. Lining up that map with Google Maps shows And according to these French Senate records Within that time, CREPS became the first company in Edjeleh in 1956. This spurred a rush of oil companies into And the struggle over control of Saharan oil war against Algerian Independence. &quot;It was the end of nearly &quot;And the African nation won its freedom Even when Algeria won its independence in France maintained rights to Saharan oil for These circles are the scars of colonialism. They're evidence of one country's attempts And they're only as isolated as they are Everywhere that it was, was transformed forever. So, we figured it out. These circles in the Sahara were made by French They were made by underground dynamite explosions arranged in circles along a straight line And based on the dates of the CREPS permit, we can safely say they were there around 1957 When we figured it all out, I emailed Bob. And he said this: &quot;You have certainly done a persistent &quot;I am comfortable with the conclusion that your features analog recording of seismic data.&quot; &quot;An unbelievable preservation.&quot; &quot;Comparing 1950s seismic equipment and is similar to comparing propeller airplanes &quot;Essentially, there is no comparison but two different worlds.&quot; &quot;Well done.&quot; Thanks, Bob. We only know this thanks to the help of dozens someone's sixty-five-year-old trash, a lot and a long, brave journey into the desert. Of course, a story like this could always But at some point to finish a story, we have to ask ourselves And I think this one is.