The life of artificial intelligence is also to their livelihoods. processes more efficient. and therefore economic growth? We posed those questions to Geoffrey It will be a wonderful thing for That's true. society or something else altogether in If you increase productivity a lot, But here, what's going to happen if you The rich and the big companies are going And ordinary people are probably going their jobs. could also give new life to developed stalled. productivity growth has been than it was between 1930 and 2000. effects of AI, economic change has been Goldman Sachs reports that only 5% of regular production. leading the way, when wider adoption have very different impacts on different Many people say it'll create more jobs I'm not convinced of that. Revolution, we made human strength Now we're making human intelligence and that's very scary. very elastic. If I could get 10 hours a week talking I'd be very happy. much more efficient by having them work going to become unemployed. be a few of them, you're just going to Great. The some areas that are less elastic. I have a niece who answers less as a She used to take 25 minutes to answer a Now she can just scan the letter into It'll give an answer. Check it. I suspect they'll need less people like It may be they can just everybody can they'll need less people like that. others aren't the non elastic ones. And what's going to happen is the extra productivity is not going to go to them. only Nobel awarded this year for DeepMind scientists and a professor at Nobels in chemistry for using AI to proteins and even to invent a whole new Marty Chavez of Sixth Street says that of machine learning. Alpha fold work is, if you think about biology are so much more complicated, Proteins are the basic building block of themselves into organelles of a cell, into tissues, which organize themselves human beings, populations of human sciences generative. the climate. more electricity to drive it. power demand by 2026. of that demand. centers used up 21% of the country's The good news is it's not new in our We've been through many periods as a energy demand. now adding to this as we electrify buildings, we now have this big these data centers. the National Economic Council under studying the effects of AI on energy at So in the near term, it creates this additional electricity online, and are dirtier sources online? But the longer term, the bigger picture technology which will then get deployed including our energy system. where these two technological could actually be one plus one equals Help us find more efficient ways to good that generative I could potentially It also poses some real dangers, perhaps armed warfare. published a report on this very subject. is a multipurpose technology. engine. most amazing positive use cases to the And yet, for all of my lifetime, the has been the threat of thermonuclear There's recently was a meeting over in everybody agree that if there were to be in that chain of command and the one China. We are really on day one of this vis national security. the last couple of years, a lot of them, think carefully about A.I. Use one to how much you would allow And this means really, you know, if you human directing it in deciding who to In the Ukraine war, you're getting very drones doing their own targeting and And very soon you have a situation weapon is always going to be faster. lethal autonomous weapons because And then you'll have huge escalation, Lots of different people are trying to The Korea conference was one of them. signed on. You use nuclear weapons. nuclear race, we proposed some limited early as 1946. negotiated until after you had the Cuban and then we had some pretty good ones. the background and what is going on now And bears emphasizing is quietly behind There are some Chinese scientists and about these issues. more on the policy area. conversations with the Chinese about the interlocutors I've talked to are equally the ones you and I are talking about And for a long time people have realized get the best lethal autonomous weapons All of the defense departments of the Britain, Israel, Russia, all those autonomous nuclear weapons. If one of them stopped, the others What we need for that is not to stop Convention. things like the Geneva Conventions for very nasty has happened. things are going to happen with lethal be able to get conventions. have basically worked, Putin isn't using been used much. worked. autonomous weapons, although I'm less But nothing's going to happen until happened. works for good or for ill, a fundamental control or at least influence over it. assume that we can, at least for long. are busy doing things that can act in you have to give it the ability to So if you want to get to Europe, you and you don't have to sort of think sub goal. these big AI systems create some goals. something the ability to create some one particular subclass almost always So if I have the goal of just getting help me achieve everything I want to So these things will realize that very Even if they've got no self-interest, control. want me to do, and so they will try and That's the beginning of a very slippery But that suggests time's a wasting, that We don't to be able to get some control Generally we control it right now, but out how we're going to stay in control How do we go about that? example, before we go globally. There are good people in the government, present. understanding what you're talking about I think with the current government, It's just very difficult to know what to One clear thing they should be doing, We need many of the smartest young problem and we need them to have Now, the government doesn't have the The big companies have the resources. insisting that the big companies spend on the safety research. what they do now? on that and nearly all their resources models. be told by the government how to spend you have big accounting departments, for regulatory requirements on accounting. we're in a at least for the very largest percentage of your revenue that will be What's the right number? go for. revenue because that's very complicated. other country and cheat. their computing resources. resources. tensor chips can you get? resources. What fraction? to say a third. settle for a quarter from everything. generative A.I. human species? Yes. Some people say this is just science And until fairly recently, I believed it I always thought it would be a very long 100 years before we had really smart 50 years maybe. it. sometime in the next 20 years these really need to worry about what happens Coming up, a race for resources south of We go to Mexico to see how global trade That's next on Wall Street Week.