The following under a Creative Your support will help MIT to offer high quality To make a donation or to from hundreds of MIT courses, at ocw.mit.edu. PROFESSOR: So, started on the new from the previous lectures? No questions? Yeah. AUDIENCE: I have a question. You might have said but when is the first exam? PROFESSOR: Ah, excellent. Those will be posted on the Yeah. AUDIENCE: OK, so we're with observables, right? PROFESSOR: Yes. AUDIENCE: And mentioned that whenever function with an PROFESSOR: OK, so let me This is a very valuable So, thanks for asking it. So, we've previously observed with operators-- that in more detail and the statement was mean that acting on a wave is like measuring And it's absolutely that acting on a wave has nothing whatsoever to do observable. Nothing. OK? And we'll talk about and what those things mean. But here's a very I have a wave function. I want to know the momentum. I will thus operate with Completely wrong. So, before I even tell you let me just get that and then we'll talk through over the next lecture. Yeah. AUDIENCE: Why doesn't it PROFESSOR: We're non-relativistically. Quantum Mechanics to be a universe in which If you ask me that more I will tell you a But it doesn't violate At all. We'll talk about that-- just that will be a very deal with in the last two when we come back to Bell's Other questions? OK. So, let's get started. So, just to review where we are. In Quantum Mechanics our first pass at the is that the configuration of think about a single the configuration is specified by giving is a function which but a function of position. Observables-- and this is of the state of the system. If I know the wave needed nor have access to about the system. All the information specifying is completely contained Secondly, observables are associated with operators. Something you can to observe or to measure is And by an operator, I something that tells you I will give you a OK? An operator is just a and spits out another function. Now, operators-- which I as long as I can remember come-- and in particular, the to care about, linear operators, in detail last lecture-- with a natural set called Eigenfunctions with Your operator, acting gives you that same function So, that's a very An operator will take some other random look all like the It's a very special thing to back times a constant. So, a useful thing is just in the case So, I'm going to consider to rotation around the OK? So, under rotation around I take an arbitrary vector Which vector is completely I rotate by a small I take this vector and I take that vector, Everyone agree with that? What are the Eigenvectors by a small angle AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] PROFESSOR: Yeah, it's doesn't change its direction. It just changes by magnitude. So there's one, right? I rotate. And what's its Eigenvalue? AUDIENCE: One. PROFESSOR: One, because Now, let's consider the Rotate by small angle OK, that's a different operator. I rotate and I I rotate and I I rotate and I Yeah, so what's the Eigenvalue AUDIENCE: Two. PROFESSOR: Two. Right, exactly. So these are a very This is the same idea, but we have functions. Questions? I thought I saw a hand pop up. No? OK, cool. Third, superposition. Given any two viable that could describe could specify states or an arbitrary superposition of could also be a valid There is also a to being in an arbitrary sum. For example, if we know that and it could be be in an arbitrary superposition And that is a statement in The electron is not white. It is in the It does not have And that is exactly we found inside our apparatus Yeah. AUDIENCE: Are those Phi-A or are they supposed PROFESSOR: Excellent. So, in general the It's an excellent question. The question was are these or are they specific of some operator? So, the superposition says a very general thing. It says, given any two an arbitrary sum, an is also a viable wave function. But here I want to mark And this is why I chose Given an operator with a special set of functions, We saw the last time. And I claimed the following. Beyond just the usual the set of Eigenfunctions corresponding to physical your observable, like momentum. That corresponds to an operator. Consider the Those we know what those are. They're plane waves with right? u to the ikx. Any function can be of those Eigenfunctions of We'll go over this in But here I want to emphasize a special property that-- for corresponding to observables-- a basis. Any function can be expanded of these basis functions, being the Fourier expansion. Any function, any can be expanded as a sum and any function can be expanded as a sum of This is the same statement. The Eigenfunctions e to the ikx. So, this is the same that when the observable this is the statement that be expanded as a superposition, and that's the Fourier theorem. Cool? Was there a question? AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] PROFESSOR: OK, good. Other questions on these points? So, these should not yet be If they are, then that's we're going to be for the next several The point now is to give you Fourth postulate. What these expansion And this is also of the meaning of What these expansion is that the probability that to be a particular Eigenvalue of the expansion coefficient. OK? So, I tell you that be expanded as a superposition with definite momentum-- And those coefficients I'm talking about. What these coefficients that I will measure the value, the Eigenvalue. OK? Take that coefficient, that gives me the probability. How do we compute these I think Barton didn't but he certainly told you this. So let me introduce to you this like. We can extract the if we know the wave function taking the wave by the complex conjugate of doing the integral. And that notation is this and Psi is my notation And again, we'll still see And finally we have if we go about measuring then we will always, always of the Eigenvalues We will never measure If the Eigenvalues are one, you will never measure You will always And upon measuring you can be confident that that's I observe that it's then it will remain white if I What that's telling you is of white and black, is that corresponding of the observable. So, somehow the process is a disturbing statement, to the process of measuring the wave function from our to a specific Eigenfunction, of the operator we're measuring. And this is called the It collapses from over possible states to upon measurement. And the definite corresponding to the value Yeah. AUDIENCE: So, when the does it instantaneously not anymore? Because originally PROFESSOR: Yeah, that's So I wrote this only but I should more So, the question was, does this precisely, does it cease Thank you. It's very good question. So, no, it doesn't cease It just says that you know upon doing is that Psi, as a function call T star, at what is equal to this wave function. And so that leaves us with is another way of asking What happens next? How does the system And at the very end we answered that-- answered that-- by introducing And the Schrodinger equation, Much like Newton You can motivate it, It's just what we mean by And Schrodinger's equation I can determine the time rate of changes of and determine its and its time derivative, if you will-- is one upon I h on that wave function. So, suppose we measure A takes the value of the Eigenvalues of Suppose we measure at some particular Then we know that is Psi of x at that We can then compute of the wave function by acting on this wave hat, the energy operator. And we can then integrate that in time and determine how The point of today's to be to study how time mechanics, and to look and basic strategies for problem in quantum mechanics. One of the great surprises hold on just one sec-- one of mechanics is that in a very specific sense It's preposterously simple. In particular, time evolution is How many of you have studied where the time evolution is Right. OK, all of you. The harmonic oscillator. But otherwise, not at all. Otherwise, the equations are generically The time rate of change is the gradient of the force, some complicated You've got some capacitors some magnetic field. It's very nonlinear. Evolution in quantum and this is going It's going to lead to some And we'll turn want to put that your that that's something on to as different from And we'll come back to that. Yeah. AUDIENCE: If a particle observed as a not PROFESSOR: That's The question is, look, I'm going to paraphrase-- and I observe that it's here. OK? Subsequently, its wave function and we'll actually study that will evolve in some It won't necessarily be But if I just keep measuring it I just keep measure It can't possibly evolve. And that's actually called the Quantum Zeno problem. So, it's the observation measure a thing, have its wave function And not only is it a cute do in the laboratory. So, Martin-- well, OK. People do it in a Come ask me and I'll tell Other questions? There were a bunch. Yeah. AUDIENCE: So after you measure, also gives you the PROFESSOR: Oh, crap! Yes. That's such a good question. OK. I hate it when people because I had to That's a very good question. So the question goes like this. So this was going to be a in the lecture but you stole So, here's the deal. We have a rule for time and it has some In particular-- let me talk this equation is linear. So what properties does it have? Let me just-- I'm to your question but first I want to set it up to answer your So we note some properties evolution equation. The first is that it's The derivative of is a sum of the derivatives. The energy operator's meaning the energy operator is a sum of the energy operator You guys studied linear right? So, these are linear. What that tells you solves the Schrodinger equation, different functions of solve the Schrodinger equation, alpha Psi 1 plus Beta Psi 2-- Psi, and I'll make it solves the Schrodinger Given two solutions of a superposition of them-- also solves the This is linearity. Cool? Next property. It's unitary. What I mean by unitary is this. It concerns probability. And you'll give a of what I mean by demonstrate that, in fact, is unitary on your It's not on the current one. But what I mean by unitary is Whoops, that's an o. Conserves probability. IE, if there's an have an object, a I'm treating as a quantum it's described by The integral, the probability places it could possibly because it had better be That had better If I solve the Schrodinger forward for half an be the case that the of finding the That means things And much as my socks a counter example of that, It just doesn't happen. So, quantum mechanics quantum mechanics is a demonstrably good It fits all the observations No one's ever discovered of unitarity of I will note that there is of unitarity in quantum is dear to my heart. It's called the Hawking Effect, due quantum mechanics, black places from which light So you throw stuff and It's got a horizon. If you fall through we never see you again. Surprisingly, a black hole's and it sends off radiation. As it sends off radiation, It's shrinking. And eventually it will, collapse to nothing. There's a quibble over whether it really or whether there's nugget of quantum goodness. [LAUGHTER] We argue about this. We get paid to argue about this. [LAUGHTER] So, but here's the funny thing. If you threw in a dictionary and where did the information go if it's just thermal So, this is a which to a theorist says, ah ha! Maybe unitarity isn't conserved. But, look. Black holes, theorists. There's no of unitarity anywhere. And if anyone ever did it would shatter the basic in particular the So that's something we would It depends on your You might hate to see it. And the third-- and the most important-- is that is a time derivative. It's a differential equation. If you know the and you know the derivative, in time. And they're existence and The system is deterministic. What that means complete knowledge of the if I know the wave function I can determine function in all subsequent Unambiguously. There's no probability, there's Completely determined. Given full knowledge now, I Does everyone agree is a deterministic Question. AUDIENCE: It's also local? PROFESSOR: It's all-- well, OK. This one happens to give me a better So give me a definition AUDIENCE: The time evolution happens only at a on the value of the derivatives and its potential PROFESSOR: No. Unfortunately, We'll see counter The wave function-- So let's think about What this says is the of the value of the wave and some moment in time is the at x of t. But I didn't tell you what The energy operator But it doesn't have to be-- function everywhere. The energy operator's a map and tells you what And so, at this level there's in to the energy see just how bad that can be. So, this is related about special relativity, and We don't have that But keep that in your when it seems to come up. Because it's a very, question when we talk Yeah. AUDIENCE: Are postulates if the Schrodinger equation PROFESSOR: No. Excellent question. That's a very good question. The question is, look, there's given any two wave functions functions of the another state which function at some moment in time, function. But number six, the Schrodinger really the linearity equation-- so it needs to be question, but it says It doesn't just say that any function and another It says that, specifically, equation plus any other solution is again the So, it's a slightly than postulate three. However, your question is have been that the respect superposition? Well, you could imagine We could've done a It might not have been linear. We could have had that equal to dt Psi. So imagine this equation. How do we have blown linearity So we could have added plus, I So that would now be It's actually refer to as the Well, people mean by the nonlinear but that's a nonlinear So you could certainly It's not linear. Does it violate that any two states could be superposed to at a moment in time? No, right? It doesn't directly violate. It violates the spirit of it. And as we'll see would cause dramatic problems. It's something we don't I don't usually emphasize but I will make to mark the places where But, so this is actually although morally-- is a technically related point number three. Yeah. AUDIENCE: For postulate three, PROFESSOR: Absolutely. AUDIENCE: Can you like creating discontinuous PROFESSOR: Oh yes. Oh, yes you can. So here's the thing. Look, if you have two functions like two smooth you add them together-- You get another smooth Take seven. You get another. But if you take an mathematicians are sneaky. There's a reason we keep far away from us. [LAUGHTER] They're very sneaky. And if you give them an infinite they'll build for you a Sneaky. Does that seem No. It's what happens when you paper and time, right? So, I mean this less but it's worth being a In a physical find that there are of possible things So, for example in this room, It's described by a That's an uncountable Now, in practice, build an experiment but it is in principle of possible positions, right? You will never get a for this guy, because to divergent as you showed on the So, in general, we will often where there's the the machinery-- the to create pathological examples. And yes, that is a risk. But physically it never happens. Physically it's that such infinite Now, I'm not saying But we're going to be very and just assume that when say, superposing an infinite leading potentially or singularities, that they will be relevant-- or they will forced too, so for we'll be able to identify. So, this is a very We're not proving We're not trying to be rigorous. To prove a mathematical have to look at all and say, those we can deal with To a physicist, exceptional They're irrelevant. They don't happen. It doesn't matter. OK? And it doesn't care about the mathematical I mean, I publish so I have a deep love But they're not salient for we care about. So, do your best to try not in the way of your understanding I don't want you to I just want you not Yeah. AUDIENCE: So, in mentioned that was a experiment that this collapse [INAUDIBLE] But, so I read that it PROFESSOR: Yeah, so as with many that's a fair question. So, let me make a slightly than answering that Many things will-- how to and experimentally you almost You can show that a prediction So there's always going in your measurements, going to be some uncertainty However, in the absence theoretical on to what you've got it as and this fits the Right? So, does it prove? No. It fits pretty well, comes even within the ballpark. And there's no that's better than our So, I don't know if could prove such a And I'm a physicist. I'm looking for things that fit. I'm not a metaphysicist. I'm not trying to give you about what things are true That's not my job. OK. So much for our review. But let me finally that we've observed let me come back to was asked a few minutes suppose we take We evolve it forward for some evolution. Notice that it's time reversal. If we know it's could run it as we could run it We could integrate or we could integrate So, if we know the wave we can integrate it forward, in time. But, If at some then the wave And subsequently, the to the Schrodinger this new initial condition. So now we seem to We seem to have-- was the question that was asked. I don't remember who asked it. Who asked it? So someone asked it. It was a good question. We have this problem to be two definitions of time One is the Schrodinger says that things evolve forward in time. And the second is collapse, things non-deterministically to some possible state. Yeah? And the probability by which wave function you have. How can these How can you have two different So, this sort of at the heart of much about the interpretation On the one hand, we the world is inescapably Measurement comes with and leads to collapse On the other hand, when the system evolves And this sounds horrible. It sounds horrible to It sounds horrible to me. It just sounds awful. It sounds arbitrary. Meanwhile, it makes it It evolves differently depending or not. And that-- come on. I mean, I think we can all So what's going on? So for a long time, physicists in practice-- for a almost exclusively and said, look, It fits the data. It makes good predictions. Work with me here. Right? And it's really hard to You have a set of rules. It allows you to compute things. You compute them. They fit the data. Done. That is triumph. But it's deeply disconcerting. So, over the last, I or the last quarter, of the 20th century, started getting more So, this notion of just which has been enshrined goes under the name of the which roughly says, Don't ask. Compute the numbers, And people have questioned the And in particular, so I refer to the Copenhagen as the cop out, disavowal of responsibility. Look, it doesn't make responsible for making sense. I'm just responsible Come on. So, more recently has come And we're not going to until the last couple Decoherence. I can't spell to save my life. So, the theory of decoherence. And here's roughly The theory says, you have this problem between evolution of a quantum measurement leading that in the case of measurement you're not really studying the You're studying the evolution a little thing that you're with your experimental of 10 to the 27th particles, to the 28 particles. Whatever. It's a large number. OK, a lot more than that. You, a macroscopic object, are a good description. In particular, that the quantum effects You're washing out of fringes, which is why and not have it split into functions and where it went. So, dealing with that is hard, want to treat the system you have to study the the dynamics, of every particle of freedom in the system. So here's the question that If you take a system where subsystem that you're and then again a gagillion some of which you care some of which you don't, of gas in the room, If you take that whole evolution in the end for that single And the answer is yes. Showing that take touch on it at the end of 804. But I want to mark is one of the most deeply in the basic story and that it's deeply that we're presenting it. And there's a much although still you that quantum mechanics That's inescapable. But at least it's not illogical. it doesn't directly So that story is the And if we're very try to get one of my friends guy to talk about it. Yeah. AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] that we get two PROFESSOR: No. No. No. There's never any ambiguity You never end up in a state that decoherence is You never end up in a situation I don't know. Maybe it was here, I'm really confused. I mean, you can get because you did a don't end up in that in a superposition state. You always end up when you're a classical end up in some definite state. Now, what wave you doesn't to you being in a simple state. You might be in a superposition that. But, when you think this, And when you think that, OK. So I'm going to leave but I just wanted to mark of the quantum mechanical story. OK. So let's go on to solving So what I want to do is talk about solving So when we set about solving the first thing is that at the end of the is just some And in fact, it's a particularly It's a first order linear Right? We know how to solve those. But, while it's we have to think about what So, just like the Newton we have to specify before we can actually solve In f equals ma, we what the force is before from p is equal to f. So, for example. So one strategy to solve is to say, look, it's just and I'll solve it using techniques. So let me specify, for What's an easy energy operator? Well, imagine you had a harmonic physicists, that's your go-to. So, harmonic squared over 2m plus M Omega But we're going so we replace these So that's an energy operator. It's a perfectly And what is the differential What's the Schrodinger Well, I'm going to put the ih bar derivative with respect is equal to p squared. Well, we remember that upon i, derivative So p squared is minus h bar to x squared upon 2m, or Psi prime prime. Let me write this as dx squared. Two spatial derivatives acting omega squared upon 2x So here's a And if we want to know how ie given some initial evolve in time, we just take and we solve it. And there are many tools to equation. For example, you could and just use NDSolve, right? This wasn't to the physicists at but they were less timid than we are, because they So, this is a very equation to solve, to solve it in a We're going to study the What I want to emphasize for some specified energy operator, has some definite And given that energy going to lead to a So one way to solve the is just to go ahead and But, at the end of the Schrodinger equation going to boil down morally of solve this Questions about that? OK. But when we actually look like this-- so, say we have It's got a derivative so we have to specify There are many ways to solve it. So given E, given given some specific there are many ways to solve. The resulting And I'm just going to mark a PDE, because it's got to time and derivatives And roughly speaking, fall into three camps. The first is just brute force. That means some analog of go to the closet and pull and tie them to the and then put them back. But some version of a use, by hook or by that allows you to solve OK. The second is And you'd be amazed how So, extreme see both of these for the harmonic oscillator. That's what we'll do next week. First, the brute the clever way of solving When I say extreme is a more elegant use You know something the mathematical structure of And you're going to to figure out a good way to equation, the good way And that will teach you physics. And the reason I distinguish in this sense is you just get a list of numbers. Cleverness, you learn the physics of the We'll see this at work And see, I really should And here I don't just mean Numerically, it can for a bunch of reasons. First off, there where no classic technique or no simple mathematical leap to the imagination And you have some horrible have to solve, and you Very useful lesson, and how many of y'all are thinking stripe or other? OK. And how many of y'all experimentalists of OK, cool. So, look, there's this in theory against numerical It's myopia. It's a terrible attitude, Computers are stupid. Computers are They will do whatever but they will not tell you They have no idea. So, in order to solve an you have to first and organize the that a stupid computer As a consequence, you learn It's extremely valuable to numerically, and we're going in the course in to be required to some of these But it's useful because and you can check lets you in the process how to solve the problem. You learn things So I want to mark that as a So today, I want to by looking at a of solving the And I want to start by looking And then once we understand how evolves in time, once we to the Schrodinger going to use the linearity to write down a general solution OK. So, first. What happens if we have a So, suppose our wave function equals zero is in a known is an energy Eigenfunction What I mean by Phi sub E of x is and I act on Phi sub E the number E Phi sub E of x. OK? So it's an Eigenfunction of the E. So, suppose our that our system equals zero in this state with cool with that? First off, question. Suppose I immediately measure the energy What will I get? AUDIENCE: E. PROFESSOR: With AUDIENCE: 100% PROFESSOR: 100%, because this it's a superposition except there's only one term. And the coefficient is one, and the probability to be equal to that value is and that's one norm squared. Everyone cool with that? Consider on the other hand, if and I had multiplied it What now is the probability What now is the probability to have energy E? AUDIENCE: One. PROFESSOR: It's still one, of a phase is one. Right? OK. The overall phase So, suppose I have this Let's take away because my life will be easier. So here's the wave function. What is the Well, the Schrodinger that ih bar time is equal to the energy And I should be specific. This is Psi at x at time t, is equal to the energy operator But what's the energy operator AUDIENCE: E. PROFESSOR: E. E on on Phi sub E, which This is the number E, Psi at x zero. And now, instead of having side, we just have a number. So, I'm going to write this differently, ie time is equal to E upon ih bar, Yeah? Everyone cool with that? This is the easiest differential So, the time derivative Well, times itself. That means that is equal to E to the minus i Where I've imposed the initial equals zero, the just equal to Psi of x at zero. And in particular, I know It's Phi E of x. So I can simply write Are we cool with that? So, what this tells me is a state which is initially remains in an energy Eigenvalue. The only thing that changes is that its phase changes by rotating with E to the minus i, the times time upon h bar. Now, first off, before we we should first check the to make sure we So, does this make Let's quickly check. Yeah, it does. Let's just quickly check. So we have that the exponent OK? And this should have dimensions AUDIENCE: Nothing. PROFESSOR: Nothing, exactly. It should be dimensionless. So what are the AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] PROFESSOR: Oh, no, the the units. What are the dimensions? AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] PROFESSOR: It's an action, So the units of are an energy times as a momentum times a position. OK? So, this has dimensions of and then upstairs of energy times time. So that's consistent. So this in fact is dimensionally Now, this tells you a In fact, we just At time t equals get if we measure the energy? E. At time t prime-- some will we measure? AUDIENCE: E. PROFESSOR: Yeah. Does the energy No. When I say that, what I that you expect to No. Does the probability that No, because it's just a phase, is one. Yeah? Everyone cool with that? Questions at this point. This is very simple going to have a lot of power. Oh, yeah, question. Thank you. AUDIENCE: Are we going to deal change over time? PROFESSOR: Excellent question. We will later, but not in 804. In 805, you'll discuss Nothing dramatic have to add more symbols. There's nothing deep about it. It's a very good question. The question was, with energy operators My answer was no, not in And what you'll find is Nothing particularly We will deal with systems where instantaneously. So not a continuous at some of them you turn or something like that. So we'll deal with But we won't develop a that depend on time. But you could do it, There's nothing Other questions? OK. So, these states-- a which is of the form e where Omega is equal This should look familiar. It's the de Broglie relation, Times some Phi E is an energy Eigenfunction. These states are called And what's the reason for that? Why are they called I'm going to erase this. Well, suppose this is my wave What is the probability I will measure the particle or the probability density? Well, the probability density it's just the norm squared This is Psi at x t norm squared. But this is equal to to the minus Psi Omega t Phi But when we take this phase cancels So this is just equal to the energy Eigenfunction norm So, if we happen to know that Eigenfunction, then for finding the particle does not change in time. It remains invariant. The wave function rotates but the probability density It's insensitive to and so the probability remains constant in Hence it's called Notice its consequence. What can you say about of the position as Well, this is equal in the state Psi of x and t. And I'll call this Psi It's the integral of the x, positions of the probability of x But this is equal of Phi E of x squared x. But that's equal to expectation or time zero. t equals zero. And maybe the best way to write So, the expectation value In a stationary state, energy-- these Everyone cool with that? And it's because that the wave by a phase under the system is an Questions? OK. So, here's a couple of Are all systems always Am I in an energy Eigenstate? AUDIENCE: No. PROFESSOR: No, right? OK, expected position of my I am not in-- so obviously, Energies change in time. Positions-- expected typical We are not in That's a highly So here's another question. Are any states ever truly Can you imagine an that is truly by an energy Eigenstate AUDIENCE: No. PROFESSOR: Ok, there Why? Why not? Does anything really No, right? Everything is getting by the rest of the universe. So, not only are these not only are stationary but they actually never So why am I talking So here's why. And actually I'm So here's why. The reason is this guy, the which tells me that if I can build And this statement-- linearity-- which says solutions of the I can take a a new solution of the So, let me build it. So, in particular, the linearity of the Schrodinger Suppose Psi. And I'm going to Psi n of x and t is equal Phi sub En of x, where En n labels the various different So, consider all the energy n is a number which labels them. And this is the solution to at time zero is just Eigenfunction of interest. Cool? So, consider these guys. So, suppose we have solve the Schrodinger equation. Solve the Schrodinger equation. Suppose these guys solve Then, by linearity, we to be an arbitrary superposition n of x and t. And this will automatically by linearity of the Yeah. AUDIENCE: But as the sum of the by just applying that and PROFESSOR: Excellent. So, here's the question. The question is, you said no system is truly in But can't we put a system by just measuring the energy? Right? Isn't that exactly what the So here's my question. How confident are measure the energy precisely? With what accuracy can So here's the unfortunate truth. And I'm not talking about I'm talking about it in practice When you measure the energy of and the box has a dial, it has a finite width, has a finite sensitivity So you never truly measure You measure it to And In fact, there's a there's a fundamental bound on make a measurement, which And this is the analog of We'll talk about but let me just jump Suppose I want to So I have some at that signal for 10 minutes. OK? Can I be absolutely confident a plane wave with the given No, because it could But more to the have been small There could've been could change on a time that I measured. So, to know that the on a arbitrary-- that I have to wait a very long time. And in particular, how confident is bounded by the time over your uncertainty is bounded in the Delta Omega, Delta t is always approximately. What this says is to be absolute confident you have to wait an Now if I multiply this I get the following. Delta E-- so this is that signals analysis-- is greater than or This is a hallowed time- which we haven't talked about. So, in fact, it is an arbitrarily precise What do I have to do? I have to wait forever. How patient are you, right? So, that's the issue. In the real world, we can't make and we can't isolate systems of time. So, we can't put things in by measurement. That answer your question? AUDIENCE: Yes. PROFESSOR: Great. How many people in this expression, the Oh, good. So we'll talk about that OK, so coming back to this. So, we have our solutions that are initially I claim I can take an arbitrary and by linearity derive a solution to the And in particular, what another way to say know that Psi of x times zero if sum Psi of x-- at some particular can be expanded as sum over my initial condition, is some superposition, then I at subsequent times. The wave function by is equal to sum over Omega nt Phi n-- sorry, this n of x. And I know this has to is a solution to the Schrodinger and at time t equals So, this is a solution to satisfying this condition at Don't even have to So, having solved the for energy, to solve it for However, what I just I need one more argument. And that one more argument is of three that we talked is that, given an we find the set of E, the Eigenfunctions with Eigenvalue E. So, given the energy operator, Any wave function Psi at any function of x can Specific superposition sum And if any function as a superposition of and we know how to an arbitrary Eigenfunctions, and find to the Schrodinger equation. What this means is, we can take and compute the full solution All we have to do is figure out Everyone cool with that? So, we have thus, using Eigenvalues, totally solved and reduced it to the problem coefficients. Meanwhile, these expansion They correspond that we measure the to the corresponding And it's just the norm So those coefficients And they allow us to Cool? So this is fairly abstract. So let's make it concrete So, just as a quick aside. This should sound an awful And let me comment on that. This statement originally was and general operator. Here I'm talking But let's think about a or more familiar example. Let's consider the momentum. Given the momentum, we can What are the set of Eigenfunctions of momentum? What are the Eigenfunctions AUDIENCE: E to the ikx. PROFESSOR: E to the ikx. Exactly. In particular, one So I claim that, for every I get a different value of p, to this guy is p is That's the Eigenvalue. And we get that by acting is h bar upon i, h bar times Derivative with an ik times the same thing. H bar multiplies the and leaves us with an overall This is an Eigenfunction operator with And that statement that an arbitrary can be expanded of all possible But k is continuously so that's an integral e to the ikx times And those coefficients but since k is continuous, I'm And just to give it a name, I'll call it f tilde of k. This is of exactly Here is the expansion-- is the Eigenfunction, here here is expansion coefficient. And this has a familiar name. It's the Fourier theorem. So, we see that is this statement, statement principal, for the We also see that it's true And what we're claiming true for any observable. Given any observable, you and they form a basis on the and an arbitrary function can So, as a last example, We've done energy. We've done momentum. What's another What about position? What are the Well, x hat on is equal to y Delta x minus y. So, these are the states with x is equal to y. And the reason this is true x is the operator that But it's zero, except so we might as well So, there are the And this statement that we can represent of x in a superposition of f of x is equal to the integral coefficients dy delta x coefficient. And what's the It's got to be a function of y. And what function Just f of y. Because this integral had better give me f of x. And that will only be So here we see, in some of the delta function. But really, this is a statement the statement that any as a superposition of operator. Any function can be of Eigenfunctions of momentum. Any function can be of Eigenfunctions of energy. Any function can be of Eigenfunctions of any OK? The special cases-- the Fourier the superposition postulate. Cool? Powerful tool. And we've used to write down a general to the Schrodinger equation. That's good. That's progress. So let's look at some I can leave this up. So, our first example is going So, a particle whose has no potential whatsoever. So the energy operator just equal to p squared upon 2m. Kinetic energy. Yeah. AUDIENCE: When you say be expanded in terms of-- PROFESSOR: Energy position Eigenfunctions, AUDIENCE: Eigenbasis, have to come from an operator PROFESSOR: Yes. Absolutely. I'm starting with AUDIENCE: OK. PROFESSOR: So, again, of the axioms of We'll make this more precise, later on in the course, as we of this. And there we'll talk about and what operators are But for the moment, the correct answer is, to each observable values. Yeah. AUDIENCE: So are the set of in the vector space as the one with PROFESSOR: That's an In general, no. So here's the question. The question is, shouldn't it be that the our basis for the are inside the space of they should also be Because if you're going consider two dimensional And you want to be expanded in a basis of pairs like x and y. You really want to make inside your vector space. But if you say this can be expanded in terms and that vector, you're That's not going So you want to make sure vectors, are in the space. For position, the basis Is that a smooth, continuous No. For momentum, the are plane waves that and have support everywhere. Is that a normalizable No. So, both of these So, at that point you might say, But here's an important thing. So this is a totally and for those of you who don't worry about it. Well, these guys live in the space of reasonable, smooth, What you can show is that in the completion of that space. OK? So, you can find a that are good wave functions, that eventually that to these guys, even So, for example, for the the delta function is not a It's not even a function. Really, it's some god- awful It's some horrible thing. It's the thing that tells it'll give you a number. Or a function. But how do we build of totally reasonable functions? We've already done that. Take this function with you can round this out by OK? We did it on one of And then just make it And keep making it more narrow and more tall, keeping And I claim that eventually of functions, converges So, while this function is it's in the completion in the sense that we take a And that's what you need for That's what you need And in some sense, was really the understanding that That was totally But that answer your question? AUDIENCE: Yes. PROFESSOR: OK. Every once in a talking about these because I really like them. But it's good to know that can't matter for But it's a very good question. If you're confused about no matter how elementary, ask. If you're confused, someone So please don't hesitate. OK, so our first example's And this operator can be We can write it as minus-- so this line is upon 2m to the derivative There's the energy operator. So, we want to solve So let's solve it in terms of energy So what are the We want to find the such that this is That's not a vector. That's a hat-- such as this is But given this says that minus h bar squared 2m-- Phi prime prime of Or equivalently, Phi prime squared Phi of x So I'm just going to annoying to write it over h bar squared. Well, first off, What are the units Well, you could do it two ways. You could either do dimensional or you could just know that we sensible equation, of this divided by length twice. So this must have to So I'm going to like k squared, units of one over And the general that phi E E of x-- well, this equation that will have two coefficients-- A e to the ikx A state with definite momentum where such that E is equal to h And we get that just from this. So, this is the solution of the Just a note of terminology. People sometimes determining an energy Eigenfunction that's refer to as the That's a sort of cruel because the Schrodinger's evolution, and this equation Now, it's true that energy in a particularly simple but it's a different equation. This is telling you about And then more done in the notes, which I will But I want to do one more Wow. We got through a lot And the one last example It's a particle is going to be important so I'm going to go ahead and as quickly as possible. So, example two. Particle in a box. So, what I mean by I'm going to take a system So what I'm drawing here U of x, where this is and this is the is the position x is position x equals l. And I'm going to idealize I'm going to be interested so I'm going to just treat And meanwhile, my don't think about curvy think about things So, my idealization that the well is So out here the and in here the U equals inside, between So that's my system So, let's find the And again, it's the same as before. So, first off, before we the probability that I or find the particle AUDIENCE: Zero. PROFESSOR: Right, is infinitely large out there. It's just not going to happen. If you found it there, to a particle of and that's not going to happen. So, our this tells the boundary equal to zero outside the box. So all we have to what the wave function is inside And meanwhile, what function at zero and at l? It's got to actually So this gives us boundary and at the boundaries x But, what's our differential Inside the box, well, So the equation is the for a free particle. It's just this guy. And we know what So the solutions can be Therefore inside the Let me write this as E is a superposition of two. And instead of writing I'm going to write it because you can express Alpha cosine of kx where again Alpha and Beta But, we must satisfy the by our potential at x So from x equals must vanish when x equals zero. When x equals zero, this Sine of zero is zero. Cosine of zero is one. So that tells us that Meanwhile, the condition that at must also vanish-- tells us set off with zero-- this had better also be zero. We can solve that by but then our wave And that's a really So we don't want to do that. We don't want to Instead, what must we do? Well, we've got a sine, it starts at zero and But we need it hit zero. So only for a very it actually hit zero We need kl equals zero. Or really, kl is Kl is equal-- and we so I'll call it n plus Or equivalently, k is equal where n goes from zero to any over l. So the energy The energy Eigenfunction whoops-- a sub n And where kn is equal to E is equal to h bar squared n is h bar squared kn squared bar squared-- just plugging over 2ml squared. And what we found is What we found is, first look like-- well, the lowest possible energy For n equals zero, this is It does this. This is the n equals zero state. And it has some energy, And in particular, E zero E zero is equal to h bar squared It is impossible for to have an energy lower naught, which is not zero. You cannot have less Everyone agree with that? There is no such Eigenstate Meanwhile, it's worse. The next energy is because if we decrease k a little bit, we get and that doesn't satisfy In order to satisfy we're going to have to and get to zero again. And if I could only draw-- it looks like this. And this has an you can get by And that differs by one, from this guy. E one is four E zero. And so on and so forth. The energies are gaped. They're spread away The energies are discrete. And they get further and as we go to higher So this is already and we'll explore some of But here's that I want Already in the first of solving a or actually even before Eigenvalues and the energy of system you possibly could, or a particle in trapped inside a potential is that the energy of the energy, are discrete, and You can never have zero energy. And if that doesn't let me remind you of something. The spectrum of light coming is discrete. And no one's ever beam of light coming out of it. And we're going to make contact That's going to be part See you next time. [APPLAUSE]