Translator: Dan Meyer Thanks, man. I'm excited about being here. My name is Michael Jr. I'm going to do some jokes. (Laughter) (Applause) Yet, at the same time, well, how comedy works. So let's stop right here. I actually like the city of Reno a lot. I was here once... (Applause) I was here once; I was keynote speaking for a corporation and something really kind of strange Normally, I'm the type of person I don't need any help or anybody... So this CEO of this large company and normally, we have two different mics, That's the plan. Dude stays there. (Laughter) I'm standing right next to him (Laughter) And then he looks at the audience, First, let me explain this. I'm the type of comedian, I pay attention to things Take someone who goes to a nice school like the University Ask them what school they go to, - &quot;What school you go to?&quot; New York University - - &quot;What school you go to?&quot; Ask somebody who goes You get a much longer (Laughter) &quot;What school you go to?&quot; &quot;Well, see, right now, what I'm doing, Then my financial aid Then I'm gonna transfer, man. They say school kills creativity anyway. Man, I feel vulnerable. Man, I feel very vulnerable right now.&quot; (Laughter) Let me tell you a little more about me. I love being a dad. And I have five kids, yeah. And I travel a lot so I can see them all. (Laughter) Ha, ha! I'm just playing. (Laughter) No, I do. I have five kids. I live in Dallas now. My kids are awesome. The thing about having a big family is you always have We wanted to get and that stuff was expensive. So what we did to save money was looked both ways, and ran a red light. That's what we did. (Laughter) Two weeks later, (Laughter) But my son blinked so we had to do it again, This stuff is crazy. (Laughter) I was doing that joke in prison recently. I wasn't in prison, It wasn't like that. (Laughter) Whenever we're doing a big live event whenever we do a large ticketed event, we always look for a homeless shelter, to go to during the day to do comedy. So I'm so I'm doing a prison this time... (Applause) It's a TEDx talk, You don't got to clap, it's OK. (Laughter) So we're doing this prison, and 75% of the prisoners laughed; the rest of them... nothing. Then I realized what was going on. Some of them had been locked up so long, the dude next to them He was like, &quot;See, nowadays, they send a picture Then he looked at the dude next to him, &quot;A red light is what they use for traffic (Laughter) And then he said, (Laughter) Wow! Where am I at right now, man? So I'd like to explain to you This is how comedy works; Any time you laugh, this formula but specifically, with regards First, there's a setup, Let me explain. The setup is when a comedian to seize any opportunity to ensure that you, the audience, The punchline occurs in a way you're not expecting. When you catch on to this change, The results are revelation, fulfillment, (Laughter) Let me give you an example. A few summers ago, I took my family The first two days were rough because the people there The third day, I realized and it was all cool; that was cool, so... (Laughter) Did you see what just happened (Laughter) So when I was a child, I used I used to really have a hard time reading. I don't know, I just struggled with it. I read now just fine; like the signs over the door (Laughter) But when I was a kid, I couldn't sound a word out So now, looking back at it, I realize to look at a word And I just started noticing this So I would look at the font size, what's in front of it, what's behind it, I got really good at to the point in high school, I was just working it out Now as an adult, I read just fine, but I still have this ability to look seven different ways almost immediately. In fact, it's the primary place So that very thing from my past looked like it was some sort of handicap, turns out I'm actually able to use it So just like you, you've probably but if you, in a way, would embrace it, you'll probably find there's Now I find comedy all over the place. At the airport today: little white kid walked up to me, I was like, &quot;Hey buddy, what's your name?&quot; I looked at him, I said, &quot;No, you're not.&quot; (Laughter) His mom was cracking up. He was like, &quot;I am Tanner!&quot; (Laughter) &quot;No. Trust me. You're not.&quot; (Laughter) Or I'll notice stuff; I saw this dude You ever see a dude but he ain't got no muscles? (Laughter) What is that? A wife threatener? (Laughter) Depending on you'll understand that joke better. (Laughter) And his friend had on a shirt that said, &quot;If you don't speak English, Hmm... but it was written (Laughter) So I walked up to him, (Laughter) But I said it in Spanish though (Laughter) So I'm able to find comedy as a result of embracing what seemed I notice even what people say sometimes. Have you ever heard the phrase, &quot;Boy, I wish I could've been Every time I hear that, &quot;And then what?&quot; (Laughter) No, no, no, no. You want to be a fly on the wall so you could hear the information Well, I've done the research. Hmm... Flies don't have ears. (Laughter) Yeah. You would be just as ignorant (Laughter) but you would be a fly. (Laughter) Nobody even listens to a fly. (Laughter) I mean, let's say you're What are you going to do (Laughter) And you've got two days to live. (Laughter) You're making bad choices. (Laughter) Or people will say stuff to me like, &quot;Michael Jr., where you from originally?&quot; I'm like, &quot;Originally? Huh. (Laughter) &quot;Before that, I was in my dad.&quot; (Laughter) Yeah. (Laughter) &quot;And then, there was (Laughter) &quot;And I won, which is crazy&quot; (Laughter) &quot;because currently, I don't swim at all.&quot; (Laughter) I used to be pretty good (Laughter) I am not politically correct. I'm just going to tell: I know I'm just telling you. You have to watch the news If you put the right stuff in your heart, So I never tried, Some people work hard. I'm at a coffee shop; a white guy The lady in front of him He looked back at me and was like, (Laughter) I was like, &quot;Cool. Let me get that if I could... just get the Caucasian Mocha, I guess. I'm trying to learn, I'm trying to learn.&quot; (Laughter) Coaches would say some stuff too. Ever hear your coach say something like, &quot;The stuff I'm teaching here, You could apply it to life.&quot; Here's the thing, people: I thought it was true. Straight out of high school, one of my first jobs was... One of the cars was really nice The company found out, He was yelling at me and screaming I didn't know what to say or do. I thought back I looked at my boss, and I was like, You win some, you lose some, man.&quot; (Laughter) &quot;You can't let this one loss (Laughter) &quot;The important thing is (Laughter) (Applause) Then I got fired, man. (Laughter) Actually, I do play some basketball. I didn't want to perpetuate (Laughter) But in basketball, I don't really feel like So some friends recently Some people call it golf or whatever. (Laughter) I shot a 121. That's what I shot, a 121; and then we had lunch. And it was like, &quot;Hey. We're gonna do (Laughter) I said, &quot;I'm not going back Because they lied to get me to go. They're like, &quot;The greens are awesome." I was like, &quot;Cool,&quot; I was like, &quot;All right ...&quot; (Laughter) I don't know how to say I'm sorry. I just did that just for Germany. I've never really been there before. I do think working out is important. I was at the gym the other month. I was going to do some cardio, right? But they moved it upstairs. I ain't going up there, man, please. (Laughter) And I get recognized at the gym. I'm working out, I said, &quot;How you doing?&quot; She said, &quot;You don't understand Every time I see you, I was like, &quot;Uh... Keep laughing!&quot; Keep laughing.&quot; (Laughter) So there's a club in Los Angeles. When I moved to Los Angeles, there's a club there that it's It's called the &quot;Comedy and Magic Club.&quot; This club is extremely hard The way I got into this club is a guy named George Wallace He knew I was funny and clean so when I moved to Los Angeles, Now he couldn't get me on stage, They have to know who you are. So he got me into the green room. I'm in the green room and I find myself in a green room There's George Wallace, I'm brand new in town. And at the time, a football player and he lost his vision in one eye, and he was suing the league Now, all of these guys are helping for the monologue I ain't saying nothing. I'm just happy to be in the room But your gift will make room for you. So then, they got quiet, and I'm thinking, &quot;Oh, snap! This is an opportunity.&quot; I said, &quot;Let's see if I got this right. He got hit in the eye with a flag, and he's suing the league He's not gonna see half of it.&quot; (Laughter) Like, for real. (Laughter) So here's the thing: how did I get that joke that fast The truth is it wasn't because I'd been practicing in the form of a kid I was practicing just like you just didn't know you were practicing. I'm here to let you know And for a lot of you, guys, It's game time. So now, I'm in the club; This is probably I'm headlining at the club, and right before I got on stage, I had a change in mindset about comedy. Most of the time he wants to get laughs from people. And I felt a shift take place: Instead of going up there I felt like I was supposed I did a little prayer, I was supposed to give This changed everything. Because now I'm not looking to take; I'm simply looking for This is why we go to homeless shelters In fact, that very night I'm outside, people want autographs, we're hanging out taking pictures, and I look across the street, I had never seen a homeless guy But that doesn't mean That just means before, so why would I even notice him? But now I changed my mindset, and I have the thought, &quot;What about him? How could I give him And that's when we started doing and making laughter commonplace So now, as a result of doing that, we went to this one place, It's an abuse facility for children And I'm hearing all these stories, and this grandmother told us who was so afraid of his mom One of the things she's been doing So I hear this story, and they bring all these kids inside. And Spiderman is sitting right up. This little boy is so afraid of his mom, everywhere he goes, He's sitting right up front at the show. If my mindset was still there's no way I would've been able But my mindset changed; so now, I have to do the show. So I get up on stage, and people start laughing Twenty minutes in it, and the voice says, &quot;My name is Ronan." And this little boy pulls off his mask, introduces himself to me. And I can't even tell you He started talking to me like I wasn't doing (Laughter) But it was all because I made this shift. I made this change, and I say it simply. Instead of trying to get, I'm going to see if there's If you can make this adjustment, it will change your life for the good. If you're a mechanic, you may think But if you can make this shift, you will recognize you help people That will put your alarm clock My senses are there's a lot of people out there Before I bounce - bounce means to vacate the premises - (Laughter) I'd like to explain to you how life works, at least from a comedian's perspective. First, there's a setup, and then there's a punchline. Your setup is your talents, And most of the time, we use our setup to ensure that the people around us Which means the punchline occurs when you change that direction You actually use your setup The results are the same, yet multiply: But it's not just for the one it is absolutely for you In fact, if I ask the question if I ask you this question, &quot;How many people here Every one of you would be able to tell me. Because your setup is the fact you've been married, you went to school. Your setup is about what you've received. But what if I asked the question, Because your punchline is about And if you only know your setup you'll make the mistake &quot;If I could just get another degree,&quot; &quot;if I could just get married,&quot; &quot;if I could just lose weight,&quot; but what you really need Because to know your setup is an uncomfortable place to live. Let me give you an example. How many people are still thinking about The reason all you guys are is because all you have is the setup; you don't have the punchline. Yet, we've moved on and allowed ourselves to be entertained like there wasn't something missing. So we'll go to a comedy show, even though there's something missing. And that's just the story What about your story? You've been living it your entire life, and not the punchline, you're living in an uncomfortable place. And please be clear. Just like when I had your setbacks are part of your setup so you can deliver the punchline Much like a slingshot, the further you're going to reach. But what are you going to aim for? Everyone has a setup, and everyone has a punchline. You need to find your punchline and deliver it. I'm Michael Jr. I love you. (Applause) Thank you guys. Aw, you guys are awesome. Standing ovation! Thank you so much. Thank you, thank you! (Applause) Get up, dude! You too! I'm just playing. Thank you. (Applause)