Welcome back to Launch Pad, I'm Christian astronomer, and in today's video, we're are among the strangest and most exotic In fact, neutron stars really aren't stellar mutant power zombies that began stars. As we saw in our previous video on cores of these stars eventually become produce the energy needed to hold itself pressure is so strong it's squeezed into gaining mass, and when it reaches 1.4 degeneracy fails and the core implodes. to the size of Manhattan in just a few milliseconds, protons and electrons are neutrons and neutrinos. The neutrinos together so tightly they exert an even pressure. The collapse comes to a ringing kilometers. The layers surrounding the later and rebound in a titanic supernova neutron star. Because they're both unimaginably dense; we're talking about times the mass of the Sun squeezed down impossible, but really isn't. If an atom stadium, its entire nucleus would only be would be tiny dust grains whizzing that seems like a lot of empty space to fact mostly empty space! But in a neutron be filled with neutrons. This is what dense. A neutron star material - would weigh five like squeezing Mount Everest into a cup. Although, it would crash right through the table, then through the floor, then the core, out the other end, and then it planet for about a billion years turning insane density of neutron stars creates typical neutron star has a surface stronger than Earth! But forget even things to weigh yourself; you'd be quantum goo. In fact, if you dropped a from a height of just one meter, it would second later. In that short time, tidal the golf ball into a string of atoms. at a substantial fraction of the speed of the thermonuclear bombs and the world star some truly weird and exotic inside the neutron stars are difficult understanding of quantum mechanics and neutron stars is pretty mind-flattening. perfectly smooth objects in the universe. is only a few millimeters high. The crust structure of iron and maybe some helium imploded. It's effectively a solid crust Kelvin. Underneath is a mantle of almost in the core are the least well Inside, pressures are 10 to the 16th Sun. Some models suggest that under these tightly together they cease being quark superfluid. for sure about neutron stars is that star was already rotating before it spun up much faster, like a figure her rotation. But when more than a Sun's kilometers across, the rotation speeds up neutron star can spin up to a hundred insanely strong magnetic fields. How Earth's magnetic field is somewhere millionths of a Tesla...not the car, the want to ship me a Tesla, that's lot stronger, around 0.001 Tesla. Sunspots, concentrations on the Sun, reach 0.3 around 3 Tesla, and the most powerful reach 8 Tesla. But a typical neutron star other words, a neutron star at the Moon's And it would pay them off as well would also be erased. It'd be the end of debt-free. they become particle accelerators and magnetic poles. Typically, these poles are rotation, turning the star into a cosmic line of sight, we can detect them as these types of neutron stars &quot;pulsars&quot;. The Jocelyn Bell who was then a graduate She kept detecting a strange repeating After ruling out any problems with the realize that the signal was coming from causing the pulses; the signal was so designated the source as LGM-1, the hearts of most supernova remnants. surrounding gas like a cosmic egg beater, and gases. Pulsars are extremely stable precise clocks. In fact, some pulsars are has its own rotation period, so for a determine your exact location in the the golden records affixed to the include a pictogram of some known indicate the pulsation periods and the The idea was that if an alien species could reverse-engineer Earth's location thinking back in the 1970s. We've since throughout the galaxy, and that makes records a lot more difficult. But we've precess, and that changes their pulsars that were once aimed at Earth aimed at us anymore. At least not as we pulsars, we just see them as ordinary think that perhaps with enough we might one day be able to use them as can even call it GPS for short. I should stable on the timescales of years to against the surrounding remains of the time. For example, the Crab Pulsar is 1000 years old and rotates about 33 [audio signal of Crab Pulsar playing] but the Vela Pulsar is about 10,000 11 times a second. left to its own [audio of Vela Pulsar] Left to its own devices, a pulsar should But if the Pulsar is in a binary the companion star evolves, it expands close enough together, matter eventually accretes this material and gains mass. momentum, it must speed up in response. rotation periods are measured in pulsar is PSR J0437-4715. the sky. This pulsar completes one That's 174 rotations a second! But that is nothing compared to the record holder in the globular cluster Terzan 5. light-years from Earth in the about 30 additional pulsars. But this milliseconds! That's 716 rotations a minute! The pulsar is moving so fast that speed of light. Now this pulsar is too be directly converted into sound using should sound similar to another pulsar, slower at 642 times a second. [high-pitched audio of pulsar] That's annoying. The magnetic fields of millisecond pulsars are super-powerful, fields that can be up to a million times a quadrillion times stronger than the Magnetars are so powerful their into long cylinders. At 10 billion spindle 200 times thinner think about getting anywhere near one of survive the onslaught of x-ray radiation with rip you apart at 1000 about the neutron star erasing the hard Well a magnetar could do the same job rare - only one in ten supernovae ever last very long either. It's thought that surrounding interstellar medium so hard, speeds after just a few years. But while powerful magnets in the Universe. And hell literally breaks loose. field lines connect and short out, hydrogen bombs worth of energy in just a whole other level; their magnetic fields change in one automatically results in rotate at a significant fraction of fighting ultra-strong centrifugal forces. stress until it finally adjusts itself creates a tiny crack in less than a crack is less than a micron in size, a event is called a &quot;starquake&quot; and it's side of a supernova. The largest star- 2004. It came from the magnetar SGR 1860-20. starquake would have been equivalent to Earth. The quake occurred 50,0000 Earth's magnetosphere and partially light-years? That is halfway same effect on Earth as a typical solar light years, it would have triggered a worry about death by magnetar. We only probably only three or four dozen in the more rare - we've only detected a handful learned a lot about neutron stars in the continuing to surprise us. In December astronomers made the first ever map of a similar, neither showed the magnetic southern hemispheres of the neutron star. to emerge from the star's southern understanding of neutron stars is incomplete? We'll investigate that in a next video, let's talk about the last one - Many of you pointed out that Betelgeuse because it's so far away, its light the unusual dimming we're witnessing now Both statements are But since light travels at a finite star was doing until its light gets If Betelgeuse is 640 light years away, we appeared 640 years ago. Now I suppose I video, but everything. Light takes about one second see the Moon that's it appeared one Sun as it appeared eight minutes ago. couple of nanoseconds ago because it screen to your eyes. to the speed of light, and that leaves us got a fair amount of comments about my call it &quot;bay-tal-juice&quot; but some said it others were careful to note that it was translation, from the original Arabic. range from &quot;beetle-juice&quot; to &quot;bay-tal-keys&quot; to &quot;beetle-jeez&quot;. I just split the difference although I'm probably pronouncing that pronouncing it as Alpha Orionis instead orion-us&quot; or is it &quot;alpha-ori-own-us&quot; or &quot;alpha-or-e-on&quot;... thanks to my Patreon supporters who are I'd like to welcome my newest patron cosmological sponsor help support this channel for the price Patreon page. And if you'd like to see massive stars evolve and die, I've got check out once we're done here.