They say to make an omelet, you've got to break a to have to commit a few Game Dev crimes. What is purposes of this video and hopefully a catchy that you take to get a game done--generally just Are these federal-level, straight-to-jail crimes? jaywalking or using the self-checkout and saying the fancy ones. Everyone does that, right? The get games shipped--or at least not mine, and not and shortcuts are some of the most fun things favorite crimes that I recently committed while Let's start with a simple one. Have you ever the bushes are actually just the clouds but a the Deep is that the silt texture is absolutely diving in the caves, you can disturb these can conceal the enemies. I drew this silt texture just like a really basic texture and it didn't texture got used everywhere. Damage effects? Those scene? That's silt. The clouds in the credits? texture just pops up absolutely everywhere because at least these effects have a texture. Some of or I just used a default circle and then So, let's talk about the enemy AI (pathfinding) enemies that can move around in the underwater to do things like, "Oh, I took a hit; I need decided to use Unity's inbuilt NavMesh system. can tell an agent--which can be anything, in and it will figure out the best path to get do this a different way, why we didn't build here is my programmer friend Szevvy, who normally things move on in--wow, Step one is to convert the level geometry into and that's easy enough. But then, this is where system is meant for 3D games, and while it can Y-axis pointing up. That means when we generate it--it didn't seem like it was working, but then we need the enemies to move around in the same I'm changing the whole game to be Y-axis up this to get around this, the Nav agents do indeed move and then we just translate those coordinates has no idea where it is; it's just mapping a parallel universe. '\ Is there a better way we could but that's why this video is called Game But we're not done with the enemies the most natural way for them to move is kind of like they're feeling their way through. But then, squeeze past each other? It's actually possible them get stuck all in one spot, and they become to fix this? Obviously, we could figure out a avoidance working properly. But you know what's and 95% of the time, you can't even see what the we just turn off collision, and they just cruise no one will ever know except you, Speaking of the dark, the dynamic shadows are look of it and also make up a big part of the to demonstrate how all this works and why it's with the fixed camera. It's totally different from game. The lighting and the shadows are all done pretty straightforward. You have these lights, and where the light should be blocked to create a that looks correct, they need to self-shadow. That of just onto other objects. This is what it looks looks all wrong--the shadows are only casting from them. It just doesn't look right at all. This is of want to still be able to see that it's gold but caves--they feel substantial, they feel big, they way through. But if we have self-shadows on, we top of the cave, now all of the light is inside the items, the water--it's all inside, and anything. If I zoom out, you can see the system but inside is completely pitch black. So, to for this game, the water and the light need The way I solved this in the prototype always had an opening at the top of the cave U-shape--nothing's ever fully closed in. But as I and better, I started adding branching paths and and I just had to close it off. So, I needed a that solves all of these problems? Well, it turns we just have to get our hands a bit dirty we figure out all of the ShadowCaster shapes we do a test on all of the ShadowCasters and This gives us the main body of the cave, the area closed system, we should be inside exactly two of we find a point at the bottom of the cave, that contain the player are really nice and close paths at the split into one giant path. This right? Except I guess this time it's an but just where it's open is smaller than a we are on the outside of the shape but contained but the light is still able to project and cast, exactly where this split is and get into the then yes, sometimes you can get a tiny pixel Speaking of the cave, what happens if the if they get pushed through the this should never happen. Over the course of so it's really exceedingly rare. The two ways spawn of a lot of objects in exactly the wrong if you pick the Rock Slide cursed perk from a Or the other way is if you happen to be in exactly the bomb destroys part of the terrain. During the and so it is just possible to be in exactly the mitigating these issues, but you could never and I just wanted to make sure there was a it basically ends your run. You're Luckily, there is an easy way to see if you're a ray upwards and then count how many times even number of times, then we're all good, no be. But if it's an odd number of times, it we can simply teleport the player up to just point. Wait, isn't that just the we can just teleport the player to just and this puts us back into the cave because then Except it's not quite that easy, is it? My how many times it crosses the path of the cave's the ray will stop when it collides. So what we up. We fire the ray up; when it collides, we count it's not quite that easy, is it? Because if we instantly collide at the exact same point again; just the tiniest amount to clear the line, and Except it's not quite that easy, is then if we happen to have collided at then we might jump to the other side, it mistakenly thinks we've only had one. but now all we've done is reduce the chance of we could get down to essentially an infinitely corner. This can happen more often than you would and jagged, so we can actually have dozens of So, if the game thinks, &quot;Oh crap, I think I of intersections,&quot; then all I do is the test and then again, and then again. If then the game is like, &quot;No need to we're all good.&quot; This is totally just a brute It seems to work great, although I do feel find some exact right place to stand, and top and escape the level or something. That's And look, you might have watched these aren't even really hacks; this is more just And I guess that's true, that's fair. A lot of and if we want to get really specific, just really dodgy bad stuff that I've done. are going to be as entertaining to watch right&quot; joke kind of gets old pretty quick. So, we're dragging the chum down to the Deep. close to its mouth? Well, we just test everything and does that object have the word &quot;chum&quot; in never ever accidentally name anything &quot;chum&quot; or How do we know where it is safe to wild, like four if-statement, just cycling looking for the right pattern. And then we look I can't stand to look at it.&quot; So you just bump make a cute little ASCII hack house, and like, &quot;Ah, look at it, it's in its own let's never change it or fix it; it can How do we deal with setting up a massive scene together when we load from a save file in a generated? We break it up into a bunch of steps, the right order, realize it doesn't work, move it magically works and then never look at it but it does. At the end of the day, it's kind of a let's be real, all games work like this--works supported by a separate house of cards built The good thing at least is when you're a solo lot more because it's not like someone else Oh yeah, Szevvy... ways to do this. I'm sure a bunch of people are to hear it because I know there are people smarter did you know &lt;blank&gt;?&quot; But I'm not changing any of is done; it's not in development anymore, day for a few weeks. And you know what? It good. I am proud of this game; it's actually I guess there's enough layers of duct tape works great on pretty much everything. It and the game comes out really soon. August 16th is the d-... It comes out August 16th. If you're watching it right away. Wishlisting really helps; it helps But if you're watching after that, you don't it now. There are so many cool things that I'm lots of little touches and stuff that I've tucked And although the game is pretty much done, about it. I'll definitely do a postmortem on the things that went wrong, because there are have been super frustrating and really if there's anything in particular you'd like stuff that I'm going to be doing. Eventually, and the new thing that I'm going to be So yeah, I think that's everything. This is this video because things just keep going okay. And that's it. This is the part where I the playlists and the subscribe and all that, but