(UPBEAT HAPPY MUSIC) (VOICER OVER) Malta is often described as one big open-air museum. And if this is true, then this is a museum but also an impressive entrance. And with some of the nicest doors and windows Its capital city of Valletta balances its streets and numerous harbours. Then you have Mdina, dating back 4,000 years. This walled- in city, has a timeless atmosphere then stumbling into this, is totally worth In this video, we'll be guiding you through a few places we missed so maybe you shouldn't, and generally just not making a tit of yourself. So come join my wife and I in what is our to find ourselves a better front door. This is Suitcase Monkey, spending 3 full days (MUSIC ENDS) (GENTLE GUITAR PICKING MUSIC) We began with an early arrival at Maltas International We would have only 3 nights here and wanted It was because of this last reason, that we just across the water from Valletta. We dumped our bags and headed out to explore ready for checkin. If you want to be close to Valletta but not a ferry ride away from the capital, its quieter (MUSIC BUILDS) (MUSIC FADES AND ENDS. BIRDS CHIRPING) (RHYTHMIC GUITAR STRUTTING, FILM CUTS TO BEAT OF GUITAR) With our room now ready, we dropped our bags We could see Valletta just across the water the city centre. Examining some front doors along the way, streets until we got to the Sliema Ferry. Running every 30 minutes, it's a quick and Valletta is Europes smallest capital city, Hidden streets and views appear around almost the architecture alone, especially with the (HARP ADDED TO MUSIC) Malta gained independence from a dwindling Seeing tiny remnants of my own English home split had taken place. But for the first time, I knew exactly what tourist and be fascinated with a red post (SOUNDS OF CAMERAS TAKING PHOTOS) (MUSIC CONTINUES) History can be seen throughout the city however, Over the last 2,000 years, Maltas timeline Naming only a handful, you have The Romans, French and The British. And even as recent as the second World War, being fought over once again. Due to the bravery and courage shown by the invasion, they are the only country to be Typically handed out to individuals, the George honours system and is even part of the nations Numerous cannons are spread around the city enthusiasts is the Saluting Battery. Built following the Great Siege of Malta, the Grand Harbour. Every Monday to Saturday there is a cannon for us we just missed. But it did explain why we momentarily thought (LOUD CANNON BLAST FIRING, MUSIC STOPS, SILENCE) (MUSIC STARTS AGAIN) Getting a little bit peckish, we found The It might be a vegetarians nightmare but for and the dips super complimentary. As with everything seen in this video, I have below, along with links to follow us on social as it happens. Please do come and say hello. After a long full-on day, we took the ferry needed rest. Tomorrow was going to be a relaxing day, with trip to the medieval city of Mdina. (MUSIC FADES) (SOUND OF ALARM FADING IN) (ALARM STOPS, SILENCE) (GENTLE GUITAR RIFF FADES IN) Following a relaxing morning in our hotel, This is probably a good time then to discuss Ultimately, the best way to get around the If, like us, however, you've been put off from Tuscany), we actually found the bus system pros and cons. Depending on the route, buses can arrive every able to get everywhere we wanted with only Google Maps obviously made everything a lot for any buses taken within a 2 hour window Sliema did have surprisingly good bus connections Valletta is much more connected overall. And do keep an eye on the last bus home time. With it leaving Mdina around 8pm it did unfortunately night hardcore rave. Mdina is a fortified city and a previous capital With its history spanning 4,000 years, its become a perfect time capsule that speaks (UPBEAT ENERGETIC PIANO MUSIC) As the day started to wrap itself up, conversation This was the only time in the trip where not our plans. 2 items at the top of our list were Gozo and Both very popular day trips, both on another If we had an extra day, we would certainly After Malta we were actually flying to Santorini heavy days in a row just didn't appeal. As it happens however, the trip we did decide our entire Malta experience. (MUSIC ABRUPTLY STOPS) In 2017, Malta unfortunately lost its famous Being one of the THE poster shots for the discovered, there are still plenty of amazing The Blue Grotto is popular with both scuba all in by boat. It is advisable to check ahead with your hotel that rough waters won't get in your way. Tickets were only EUR8 and puts you up close and the incredibly clear blue waters below. (BEAUTIFUL PIANO RIFF BUILDS THROUGHOUT) With our feet back on solid ground, I would the top of the road. From here, you can really get a sense of the (MUSIC FADES AND SLOWS) After soaking in the site of the Blue Grotto, Our last point of call was an area known as Looking out towards Valletta and the Grand Or, depending on what map you're looking All 3 of the cities underwent a name change have seen them used interchangeably. All 3 cities have a slightly different feel worth a trip across the water if you have Starting in Bormla, we wandered through its way to Birgu. Here, we found a local cafe that served a sure if they were being ironic here. Birgu was probably the most tourist friendly harbours, along with the Malta Maritime Museum With Isla across the water, and a stroll down Hotel, grabbed some food and packed for Santorini Before our return home however, we still had So now, tucked away in our bathroom, you might If you would like to follow our Santorini become with getting a good Instagram pic, soon. I only post every month or so, so I promise, you. To support this channel please hit the like word and enjoy our other travel vlogs from Don't forget to say hi in the comments below of our next trip as it happens. Until the next video, thanks for watching