This video was made possible by CuriosityStream. and get access to my streaming service It's a plane that would have never have been and it's too large for a third of the world's do what no other aircraft in the world could: space program, and even launch spacecraft The Soviets had big plans for this plane, but the 1989 Paris Air Show, it was a plane In 1982 the Soviet Union begins airlifting enormous parts to the back of aircraft, and flying They're racing to build the counterpart to and launch system called Energia-Buran. Like at aerospace manufacturing facilities in the west, away. But unlike earlier spacecraft, Energia-Buran railways, so they'll have to be airlifted. In a rush but the planes aren't up to the task. They can have to be stripped down to make them as light some of which are nearly 60 meters long, the The Americans solved their need to transport space carriers. The jumbo jet was an ideal plane for the weight, strengthening its fuselage, and adding the Americans would also use rail lines, and the water using barges. Only the shuttle orbiter would would need to airlift their entire launch system, And with Soviet leadership pressing to start come up with a solution. So, naturally they looked Under development in the early 1980s the Antonov capable transport in the world, and But even the enormous 124 wasn't going to cut it, And to do, it they'd lengthen the fuselage and For more power they'd give the plane two more would easily carry a Buran orbiter, but larger redesigned the vertical stabilizer. To deal prevent it from damaging runways, they'd give it 32 wheels. Larger and more capable, this new titan the An-225 is unlike any aircraft in the world. Six thrust, giving it the ability to lift nearly double plane so large, the Wright Brothers could have made The 225's primary mission would be to carry envisioned using the plane to do what had never directly from mid-air. That's because the 225 would plane and its payload up to the lower stratosphere, of 8 kilometers. Allowing it to reach orbit at The reusable launch system would and its development was well underway by 1988. The to serve as the backbone of their In November of 1988, the Soviets stunned the world that point, few in the west would have had any idea of the Space Shuttle. And the following year look as the enormous 225 carried a Buran to the but experts were puzzled. To get to the air show, right through a rainstorm. A move NASA would have But by this point, damaging the Buran was the least country was going bankrupt and could no longer spacecraft would never launch again. Without the the 225 was paraded around at Western air shows use for the giant plane. And it seemed like nothing the 225 to deploy a Ekranoplans for maritime plane as a launch platform for their own proposed proposal for a massive triple deck airliner. But Soviet Union collapsed and before long, the 225 was was scavenged for parts. The world's largest With the fall of the Soviet Union, Ukraine's for their aircraft. But they did find a new source fly cargo. With An-124s having more lifting found a brisk business transporting everything But every so often, they'd get a request couldn't manage. By the late 90s, the case for But it wasn't a straightforward decision. Unlike the 225 was a relic of the Soviet space program, with a fuselage heavily reinforced to handle external payloads. And unlike the 124, the plane had loading cargo. But Antonov bet that the plane could dollars were invested into new engines, modernized On its first chartered flight in January of A feat that would have otherwise required two had been given a new lease on life carrying cargo And over the course of the next two decades, the payloads it transported. But the plane's outsized of 30 thousand dollars an hour to operate, the 225 And with only one of the type ever produced, the crowds wherever it flies. A second half finished And despite regular headlines about how it one will ever be enough demand for a second The An225 was built in an era when technological to be achieved no matter the cost. And in the Buran to catch up to the American Space Shuttle technology to gain a tactical advantage in the But by being virtually invisible to radar. You technology and the incredible F-117 Nighthawk streaming site I helped create, along with some of