We just got dropped off And we're going to spend the next And there goes our only way out. We're now stranded Why are we doing this? For content. This once beautiful city because of war, which means the only people here At least that we know of. So I guess we start off We knew that our first objective and find a safe place to call home which starts All right, let's see what's down I assume under this wood is a floor. Only one way to find out. All right, this is crazy. I feel like I'm This is wild. Oh, look at this. After a little more exploring, we stumbled upon an area Oh, my Gosh. I think this is where You can see the entire city Plus, we have a And now that we the next step was to open up the supplies crate left Let's pop open this crate We need some gear. This crate contains we'll need for the next seven days. And so we don't have to carry stuff We're just going to drop it. Chandler. We have a perfect assembly line. Kris, it's raining Chandler, there's our dinner plates. Wait, Chandler don't let it fall. Chandler. Yeah! That was the coolest thing we've ever done. But jokes aside, it was time Who wants fire - We'll get it. Kris got started on making a fire I'm personally a fan of the log Eagle Scout. While Chandler and I look This is what mattresses Wait, you found a mattress? - Yeah. On the second floor - That's all you. You should wrap so you don't get destroyed by bugs. I'm going to wrap And while Chandler took us chances The rest of us decided There's no shot that you're My back already hurts. There are so many buildings Tomorrow's going to be insane. We'll see you in the morning. Even though our first day in Something eerie did happen to occur While we were sleeping, Mark and some of the camera guys woke up to the sound not far from the camp. Which made us start to wonder if we were really alone What was it? We just heard glass shattering there. I thought I saw something. But on top of the freaky noises, this first shelter was way How'd you guys sleep? Bad. So in pursuit of better sleep, and prepare to find our new shelter. This is the first time But I'm so hungry, Well, since the raft. When have I ever been I think my brain tried So after a nutritious breakfast, to seek out a new shelter We haven't explored that building. We haven't explored those hotels. It is an actual city here. However, upon we did stumble upon - There's a cat. I'm going to land the drone Look at that shot. Kris, Kris, look, This cat has no survival instinct. I promise we are not paying As fun as playing with these cats because it's And so we started our journey to find a sufficient shelter Wait, what is this? This is pretty. It just has this type of that is like beautiful Zombie apocalypse aesthetic. Yeah. There you go. Wait, is that a pool? What the heck? This is so eerie. Back in the day, And after decades of rotting from being abandoned, Wait, there's a soccer field? The sports court. Is that a soccer ball? I almost died. I bet this soccer ball Older than all of us, for sure. Well, besides, Mark, We have two options now. We can keep exploring and go check Or with the hour of light we have left, we can prep for nighttime - Not freeze. I agree. And after spending the entire day I just can't get over We finally found a place So we don't freeze tonight. We're thinking of setting up camp We'll have a fire pit right here. We can tarp the wall right there. Yeah, Mark's I said we. The only hard part is, Our current camp and all our gear I hope this place really works out because it's going to be With the sun getting low and We made our way back and packed up We're headed into the new campsite. The new camp, the new camp. The new camp. Okay, we've got a lot of cleanup This looks like a terrible place, After finding we spent the next few hours dragging as we could before sundown. Now, because it got dark so fast, we couldn't bring all of So aside from one water bag, cans of chili and a couple of old What does everyone I like that there's no wind. And it's much warmer. Chandler? What? It was now the third day And once we got up, Be careful. These stairs actually steep. On this whole staircase, three of the stairs are normal. This beach is nice. It actually smells like a beach. It's because it is a beach. But not too far in, I think I see someone. What? Don't you see that reflecting thing Oh, I do. Jimmy, remember how we almost died the first night from glass I wonder if that's It was at this moment we actually weren't alone And once our cameraman spotted we did what anyone would do. Let's go check it out. Investigation. That building is sick. Why is this mansion beside Decades ago, this hotel stood But years of war into a city of ruins. Let's head on in. What did we just get ourselves into? We totally don't to walk in the room before we go in. Anyways. It's getting dark. Everyone, stop. Stop. Candy. We should go in there. I'll go first. Go ahead. You think it's a Feastables bar? What the heck? This is starting to get very eerie, What? Look at how deep this hallway is. Also, if you fall over here, There's a very non-zero chance and like attack us. If someone attacked us. Every man for himself. Yeah, whoever's the slowest just dies. What's that light? Hello. I'm creeped out now, guys. We spent the rest of the day but once it started getting dark, we can only hope that later And now that it's dark out, here's what Give me Big Bertha. Thank you. Big Bertha. Notice how you can't This is the world's Now you can. Bro, I bet the fish It stopped working. How the mighty have fallen. The pluses of our actions strongest flashlight at night. The negatives of our actions is that That was bad timing. It's way scarier going Yeah, a thousand percent. It really and we're just like surviving. So to avoid being murdered in cold blood, we return back the camp. We're back at camp. Yeah. I'll get a fire going. I'm hungry. There's literally only chili left. And so with the last of our supply Tomorrow, if we got - And more food. But when we woke up on the morning we realized that we were already Our bag of water is out of water. Do we have more? Point the camera at that roof, I wish I had more than a hundred Nose goes. What does nose goes mean? It sounds like you're going. He's going to need help. So Mark and Chandler to ground Zero Chandler and I, This is a main quest. While they get the water, we don't want to be useless. We? I'm fine. I don't want us to be useless. So we're going to go But we didn't get very far before Did we not know this was here? Jimmy? - Yeah? That looks like a nice bike. - Where'd you find that? This is the coolest abandoned city ever. - Having fun? All right, I'm going to go Okay, Let's go. How are we going It's heavy. The thought process is that And what do people have Tables and chairs. Exactly. Wait, hold up. Look at this. Yes. Jimmy, Jimmy. it's a chair. Mark's strong. A little help here, Chan. This bag of water is over a hundred pounds. And so my buddy Mark, had an idea to get it down But... Our rope broke. We need stronger rope. What you're watching is real. Mark literally deleted We got some bad news. Hurry up, hurry up. The rope broke and This was actually Oh, no. Are you kidding me? Mark! Sorry! Don't worry, dude, Carry this one down, please. And now that half of our water The only possible way to complete unfortunately, So Kris and Chandler volunteered leaving Mark and I to make it the full seven days. Genuinely, with anybody other than you. - I think you got it. But before they left, we wanted to have one final feast Now that's a Feastables smores. My hair. Great melting point on the chocolate, If you've tried Feastables before, you haven't tried Feastables. Our brand new formula tastes Genuinely go to Walmart, try Feastables and tell me what you think. It's honestly way better than the old I just worked at NASA, so. Well, I just had s'mores And so we launched a flare which was actually pretty cool. Bro, look how cool that looks. Wait, it's lighting up the entire city. But the not cool part is now it's just Mark I feel so lonely. It's our first day But we're going to make Our objective for today We're going to put up tarps We're going to build We're going to find shelves and tables. We're going to make this place With some of the ideas we have planned He's lying. And so we started exploring to find furnishing for our shelter, which is when we found this awesome shelf, and also this metal thing Look at this chair. That works still, man. Bro. That's comf. I found a fake TV. We can make it It's a good find. Wow, that's just so cool, this like courtyard with the arches. Each building in this city What can we do with these? We could use, like, a vent system Combined with these, Like actual wallpaper. We have wallpaper. What do we use it for? To make the house a home, It's like we went grocery shopping, we grabbed a bunch of 30-year-old garbage Honey, we're home. We found all this stuff. Now we're going to start decorating. We're no longer surviving, I like that. We literally spent the next 4 hours moving all the rubble which made us pretty thirsty. The water in these sacks which is why we all because you can put a flavor and make water taste good. This is my first time Delightful experience. You can determine the intensity. So if you're feeling really audacious, Or if you're just a wuss, I'm trying six. Six. I'll match your six. That tastes awesome. Which flavor are you using? I'm rocking fruit punch And you know what we need right now, Energy. - That's right And now that we had been hydrated, it was time to start crushing When everything's said and done, this room will be the greatest room in This is our new shelf. All right, let's see how she looks. See that? Oh, isn't that satisfying? And now that the shelf is clean, For some reason, over half And no one here likes chili. That's the non chili row. That's the chili row. This is the Feastables row right there. Now we have a table Mark has a 22 ounce bottle. And they have a metal double that you can get for free right now What a steal. It's not a steal. All right. That's going to block a lot of wind. With our new door in place, we also hung up this huge tarp, which will allow us from the fireplace inside our shelter. Oxygen comes in, fire burns, sends heat in the room, This is redneck Finally, - All right. And we have a fire. I can feel the heat coming out. Wait, Jimmy rigged this up Anyway, go to DrinkCirkul.com/MrBeast... Or scan the QR code on his face, This is the final room. We have our beds Tell me this isn't genius. This is Mark's iPad in the TV frame. Obviously some nice lighting, that is heating up the room, and a shelving unit and a dirty towel This is survival. But just as our night was going so we heard a broken glass. - Mark. What was that? Man, we were having such a good day too. I want to go see who's upstairs. I'm carrying the knife as a threat, Hey, if you're up here, I want to be best friends with you. Are you serious, you're not pranking me? Bro, I swear to you it was not me. Hello. What is this? Bro! This is the most Mark Rober thing What the heck? You swore! Yeah, so turns out Mark was pranking us, and he was the one dropping I've got a remote control here. I can be in my sleeping bag and I can start launching glass Freak everyone out. Oh, my gosh. I thought I could trust you. Now that Mark's not pranking me, Feastables me. There you go. I'll take one. I got one as well. That's kind of cool. To be honest, it was pretty easy because we only had one day left Good morning. Good morning abandoned city. Abandoned city, abandoned city. It's so much colder out here Let's go back. It's now the morning of day six. All the modifications and it was at least ten degrees - That was amazing. Mark, on our last real day, - Yeah! Jimmy, is that a kayak? I know what we should do with it. Now someone can kayak in this pool. Me and Mark really did have a lot of fun. Played baseball, played soccer. Mark even taught me how to skip There it is. And even screaming at each other - Mark! Let's throw things off the roof Great idea! To be honest, really did take our minds off Yeah! And by the time after cleaning up camp, Leaving this I'm here! - I'm here! Huge shout out to Mark. He has his own channel is very busy. Here's the channel. And let's get out of here. Let's go. By the way, for the next 20 days to people who Go buy the new formula, it tastes amazing.