You've probably heard of The Password Game at some point. The Password Game is a web-based puzzle created by Neal Agarwal. Most known for creating the website neal.fun which includes many other little games hes created such as: and dozens more. What I want to talk about today is how people managed to beat The Password Game in the least amount of characters as possible. If you aren't familiar with how The Password Game works I'll summarize it pretty quickly. You start by creating a password which is then followed by a few rules you have to follow. Eventually the rules become more and more bizarre and begin to stack up on top of other rules. This goes on for 35 rules until you're finally finished with the game. Many people tend to finish this game with a substantial amount of characters in their password like Thankfully there isn't a rule where your password must be lower than a specified amount of characters. However a few people DID treat this as a rule. The game was added to speedrun.com on July 28th, 2023. There were many categories including Minimum Characters. This is the only category we'll be talking about. Despite many people completing the game regularly with 101 characters or more, The first crucial minimum character run was done on August 16th, 2023 with a 79 character password by Romerko. Now this password was pretty optimized. This isn't a password you would see someone regularly use. This was Romerko's password. Well, this was Romerko's READABLE password. What makes this password so optimized is many singular characters in this password are being used for multiple different rules. Rule 8 specifies &quot;Pepsi&quot; was used so the last letter &quot;I&quot; can be used for the start of Which is for Rule 22 to include one of these affirmations. Doing this saves one character, same with Rule 11 requires you to include todays Wordle answer which changes everyday. Scrub was the Wordle answer on August 16th, the same day Romerko did this run. &quot;bbymy&quot; is one of the one hundred and forty-nine different captchas that Rule 10 has to offer. Because this captcha has &quot;B&quot; at the start, this optimizes another character. The last optimized character in this run is &quot;may&quot; ending in &quot;Y&quot; makes it connect with &quot;YouTube&quot; saving yet another character. Technically if you were lucky enough, you wouldn't have to go through the hassle of trying to combine words together to save characters. &quot;Kenya&quot; was the answer to Rule 14 in this run. It's possible to get the country &quot;Iran&quot; saving one character. And chess, well, the chess solution only costed three characters and out of a hundred and ninety-three different possible chess puzzles, eleven answers only use three characters instead of four characters. Although at this rate, beating this record could be fairly difficult. If you don't know Rule 33, meaning the previous prime number before 79 is 73. So to break this record, you would need to optimize six characters throughout the entire game. This also heavily decreases how many more times this record could be broken. However, nearly two weeks later on August 29th, Perorbem submits a 73 character record. This was Perorbem's password. Readable password. To start off with Wordle the answer is &quot;caper&quot;. The last letter is capitalized because of chess, as the chess solution is &quot;Rg7&quot;. Another three character chess solution that optimizes not only one, but two characters. &quot;7&quot; is also used for &quot;73&quot;, which is the length of the password and prime number. The &quot;3&quot; is also used for Rule 35, which is to include your current time in the password, which was set to 3:50. Another character is saved with &quot;I&quot; at the end of &quot;Pepsi&quot; again and &quot;I&quot; at the start of &quot;Iran&quot;, which was the countrys' answer for this run, the best country you could get. Something I should mention is captchas do not work if a letter is capitalized. All letters must be lowercase for the captcha to work, hence, why a character was not saved here. &quot;I am loved&quot; is left alone for this run. &quot;May&quot; and &quot;YouTube&quot; optimize another character again. The caterpillar serves no purpose here as well as it is not required at the last moment. The reason caterpillars are in this password is because of Rule 23 when Paul which is a chicken hatches. And you have to feed him three caterpillar emojis every minute. If you don't, well then he just dies now you have to start over. Same with overfeeding him. If there are nine or more caterpillars in your password he just gets overfed and dies. In Romerko's 79 character password, there were no leftover caterpillars in his password. While in Perorbem's run, he had one leftover caterpillar. Also these other emojis are required for other rules as well. Overall this password optimized five different characters. Now this password could've been 71 characters. The caterpillar was unnecessary and the hex color for Rule 28 could've been placed up here and rerolled until you get a good hex color that ends with &quot;C&quot;. Which would've saved, yet another character making this a 71 character run. Since 71 is the previous prime number before 73. With these run optimizations in mind a 71 character run is definitely possible. And turns out, the user thisisnotanickname, submitted a 71 character run on August 21st, 8 days before Perorbem's 73 character run. nickname's 71 character run is much different than Perorbem's run. Here's nickname's final, readable password. You may already notice &quot;Pepsi&quot; and &quot;I am loved&quot; are optimized once again. Now nickname actually got &quot;Peru&quot; for the country instead of &quot;Iran&quot;, both countries have the same amount of characters however, Peru did not optimize any characters in this run apart from the atomic numbers. You may have also noticed a few characters are randomly capitalized. This is because of Rule 18, When playing this game normally, this rule isn't the worst, since you can just, do a bit of math and research and get the right amount of atomic numbers. Since this is minimum characters though, you can't do this. Since this takes up a few characters. So the only way to optimize this rule is by trying to get 200 atomic numbers using only what you have. People either use XXXV or VVII for Rule 9, By using XXXV it only takes up 23 atomic numbers, as VVII on the other hand takes up 152 atomic numbers. Leaving you with only 48 atomic numbers left. For the most part, it'll take some time to figure out how to perfectly have 200 atomic numbers in an extremely optimized password, but apart from that, this rule isn't that big of a problem yet. For nickname's run, he used VVII as the roman numerals so one character could be saved by placing one of the Vs in &quot;I am loved&quot;, as XXXV wouldn't have saved any characters. You would also need many more atomic numbers if you used XXXV. &quot;Ru&quot; in &quot;Peru&quot; is 44 atomic numbers and &quot;Be&quot; in Beach is 4 atomic numbers, totaling up to 200. &quot;May&quot; and &quot;YouTube&quot; connecting saves another character once again. The hex color was #da71f2 Now two characters are actually saved here. Because you need to include &quot;71&quot; in the password, nickname kept rerolling the hex color until 71 was in it, Meaning &quot;71&quot; didn't take up a singular character at all in the password. Unlike Romerko and Perorbem's run where &quot;7&quot; was used for chess and, well, nothing was optimized here. nickname also rerolled his captcha until he got &quot;cdcb3&quot; So that &quot;3&quot; can be used for the current time, optimizing another character from this. In total, this run saved five characters, the same amount of characters optimized in Perorbem's run. However, if you look back at Romerko and Perorbem's run, you'd begin to see in Romerkos run, he was using a spreadsheet for every URL for Rule 24. This surprisingly makes this rule a lot easier since you don't need to spend minutes trying to find a URL that's the exact time you need. Not to mention, URLs can't have a capitalized &quot;C&quot;, &quot;D&quot;, &quot;M, &quot;L&quot;, due to the roman numeral rule. Same if a URL has too many numbers in it for Rule 5. This spreadsheet includes every URL for the game that does not break any of the rules. However every URL is formatted to make the password exactly 200 characters (atomic numbers) by adding one or two elements at the end of a URL. This was meant for speedrunning. Except these elements aren't in the URL, they were just placed after the URL so it'd be much easier. Meaning Romerko and Perorbem's run used up a couple characters since they didn't try optimizing the atomic numbers, so technically nickname saved a couple more than five characters. Now inch by inch, each run has gotten more and more optimized, and it's getting to the point where there's no extra characters to spare and you have to resort to whatever you have in your password to maintain atomic numbers and other rules. So the question is, can this record be broken? Is it possible to save four more characters somehow? Even in this state? Well, yeah nickname kind of broke the record on the same day and boy was I wrong about thinking if 67 characters was impossible. Here's nickname's 67 character readable password. I'll bold the optimized characters that have already been talked about. The countrys' answer for this run was &quot;Iran&quot;, which is again, the best country you can get. However if you look closely, &quot;I&quot; in &quot;Iran&quot; is optimized due to the roman numerals and atomic numbers VII as well as &quot;N&quot; in &quot;Iran&quot; being optimized due to a beginning chess move. It's a four character chess move however, two of the four characters in the country has been optimized which is shocking. Something else shocking is since nickname did this run on the same day he did his 71 character run, the Wordle answer is still beach. And if you look closely as well, &quot;BE&quot; is the last two letters in the hex color. Theoretically it is possible to get a hex color ending in #BEac to save four characters from Wordle. Although, there is only two hundred fifty-six different possible combinations of Hex colors ending in &quot;beac&quot;. And out of all sixteen million different hex colors possible, if you were to check and reroll the hex color every second, it would on average take you around 18 hours just to get one hex color combination ending in &quot;beac&quot;. In this run, nickname's hex only ends in &quot;BE&quot;, still saving two characters from Wordle. But in nickname's 71 character run, he also saved two characters because of &quot;71&quot; in his hex. You may be wondering &quot;Is 71 (or well in this case 67) can it be optimized?&quot; And, yeah it is. One of the captchas is This captcha on its own optimizes three characters. which is used for the current time. This run optimizes nine characters compared to his last run being five characters, or more if you count the elements. Speaking of elements, &quot;P&quot; in &quot;Pepsi&quot; is 15 atomic numbers, we already know VVII is 152 atomic numbers, as much as &quot;R&quot; and &quot;A&quot; look like they're being used for an atomic number, they're not. If &quot;R&quot; in &quot;Iran&quot; is lowercased, the &quot;I&quot; in &quot;VII&quot; would turn into &quot;Ir&quot; making that 77 atomic numbers which overshoots the atomic rule later on. So &quot;R&quot; will be capitalized for that reason. As &quot;R&quot; on its own is not an element. Now if &quot;A&quot; is lowercased, the &quot;R&quot; will be turned into &quot;Ra&quot;, which is 88 atomic numbers which, once again, overshoots the atomic number rule later on. So, &quot;A&quot; will also be capitalized, and &quot;A&quot; is not an element either. The chess move solution includes &quot;Ne&quot; which is 10 atomic numbers. The YouTube URL includes &quot;H&quot; and &quot;S&quot; which is 1 and 16 atomic numbers. And finally, &quot;B&quot; and &quot;H&quot; in &quot;BEacH&quot; is 1 and 5 atomic numbers, all added up being 200. You might've also noticed this long ago but this password has a caterpillar in it. If it weren't for the prime number rule this password would be 66 characters but because the prime number rule exists, to beat this record, you would need to optimize six more characters. and this runs' optimizations were impressive, don't get me wrong, going further with this could be impossible. Is a 61 character run possible? nickname or anyone else didn't break the record instantly like last time. Even people in the speedrunning server for the game would say 61 is barely possible and you need insane luck with many random rules like chess or YouTube or hex colors. A week had passed and, nothing. Two weeks had passed and, nothing either. But on September 12th, about three weeks after nickname's 71 character run was submitted, Flob submitted a new minimum character record of 61 characters. Many people did not think this would ever happen despite how the 67 character password was, already just about fully optimized, but this run has many new strategies and optimizations in store for us. Here is Flob's readable password. Once again, the optimized characters that have been talked about many times are bold. To kick it off, the hex color ends in &quot;61&quot; which is the passwords length and prime number. The &quot;1&quot; in &quot;61&quot; also connects with the time in &quot;1:25&quot;. As well as the time in &quot;25&quot; connects with &quot;egp&quot; which is a captcha, And, it's not over. The &quot;P&quot; in the captcha is also used for &quot;Pepsi&quot;. The country for this run was &quot;Iran&quot; who would've thought and finally chess. This chess solution was three characters, everything I just listed off, nine characters were optimized throughout the entire password. Along with the atomic numbers &quot;F&quot;, &quot;P&quot;, and &quot;VVII&quot;. However, the last &quot;I&quot; is &quot;Ir&quot; since &quot;R&quot; is actually lowercase in this run making the atomic numbers exactly 200. I guess atomics are optimized as well now. All adding up to 200 once again. This password is perfect. Well, there's still a leftover caterpillar but still. This is one of the most craziest optimized runs yet for minimum characters. Many changes that save many more characters. Although, there is one more change that you probably haven't noticed yet. Flob did this run on September 12th and the Wordle for September 12th was whisk. hold on wait where's whisk? If you notice in Flob's recording, his PC time is forward by about a month October 15th. And when you set your PC date far ahead, rule 11 is just free. You literally don't have to do anything. Because of this, five more characters were technically optimized. However, keep in mind the Wordle in nickname's 67 character run already had two characters optimized and theoretically four. So, who knows how big of a difference this is, but this run is insane getting 61 characters and technically 60 without this caterpillar. Could 59 characters be possible? I mean, if one more character is saved in any way, 59 characters would be a possibility nobody ever thought would be true. The chances of getting this 61 character run alone is hard enough. Getting the country &quot;Iran&quot; figuring out the atomic numbers 59 characters might JUST be possible with enough luck. It would take hours but, it'd be worth it. Nothing new came up for a week. Nothing new came up for two weeks. Three weeks, even a month. And, almost two months. Was it truly that difficult or, maybe even impossible to get a 59* character run? Did nobody want to run this category anymore? Well, it was a bit of both. On November 10th, just about two months after Flob returned with a 59 character world record password. It, finally happened. For a good while this category was kind of, dropped. There wasn't much to optimize in this password though, hours before Flob did this run something big happened for The Password Game, something that could possibly change this category forever. Let's just get through Flob's run real quick. The first letter of the captcha is used for the hex color. The &quot;3&quot; in chess connects with the time. Along with &quot;59&quot; being used as well for the time, password length, and prime number. And, that's it. That was a few less optimizations than the 61 character run. What happened? Only seven characters were saved in this run instead of nine characters. The only reason you may be thinking is, did something get removed or skipped? If you thought of that, you would be exactly right. In the speedrunning server, someone discovered that Rule 14 (the geoguessr rule) was completely free. No country names were in their password, geoguessr (Rule 14) was free. Not only does this save god knows how many characters but this also saved so much more time and completely removes the luck factor for Rule 14. In the password, the only rules you can reroll is captchas and hex colors. You couldn't reroll geoguessr (Rule 14) for a better country or other rules as well and, you can't reroll the chess puzzle or YouTube videos length. Flob's 59 character run did not have a country in it at all, making this the reason a 59 character run was done. Nothing was left over either but, that wouldn't matter. The prime number before 59 is 53 and, by the looks of the best optimizations being performed, a 57 character run is probably the lowest you could get this password. Now, ever since nickname's 67 character run was done, a few people in the speedrunning server were figuring out many ways to optimize minimum characters or, kill Paul in four various ways. There was a small conversation about when will people go as far as trying to get a URL that ends with part of a captcha or something else. Yeah I, think we've reached this point now. If you type &quot;allinurl:&quot; then a keyword then YouTubes' watch?v= URL, you will get every YouTube video that has that specific keyword in the URL. However, you cannot blacklist anything such as wanting the keyword to be capitalized or uncapitalized, or the other characters in the URL being lowercase such as &quot;X&quot;, &quot;D&quot;, &quot;M&quot;, whatever breaks the roman numeral rule. Or just any rule that URLs can mess up. So you have to manually look for a URL, make sure the URL is within the length limit, by the way the length for the YouTube rule can go as low as exactly three minutes and as high as thirty-six minutes and twenty seconds, making that 2000 possible different seconds. You also need to make sure the atomic numbers aren't too high, that can really mess up the run despite it can't go any higher than 48 atomic numbers due to VVII. And, you can't change the roman numerals to XXXV because that'll unoptimize a character. Eventually, around the time Flob got the 59 character record, a document for every valid YouTube URL that includes characters in a captcha or the sponsors like Pepsi or Shell, roman numerals, months of the year, and even chess. This is so a few more characters can be optimized to possibly get a 53 character run. Something else that was also discovered is when you enter a correct hex color, the game actually allows 5 hex colors ahead and behind the actual hex color, this will be important in a minute. Eventually someone took all 149 captchas to see which captchas could be valid for a hex code. Turns out there's only 35 different possible hex colors that include an entire captcha in it. You may be wondering why there are so few, shouldn't the numbers keep going? And, yes. There should be more hex colors. Double or, maybe triple what you're seeing right now. But, every time you reroll a hex color, you will never get a hex code where the digits add up to 11 or higher. This was most likely so you wouldn't get a hex color like, making Rule 5 impossible. Because of this though, there are not actually sixteen million different hex colors you can get for this rule. Instead it is lowered down to different possible hex colors you can randomly get. This increases the odds quite a bit to get a hex color that's already in your password, but, we're not done yet. Every captcha was taken again but instead of every valid captcha being in the hex color, it would only be the first four characters of the captcha. This increases the odds much more of getting a hex color already in your password. By the end of the day, there were valid hex codes that included the first four and five characters at the end of a hex code. Since each hex code is allowed to go ahead or behind five hex colors without being invalid, this heavily increases it to hex codes out of valid hex codes entirely. On average you should be able to get a hex color thats already in your password in the span of two minutes, that's if you reroll and check every second. Because of all of this, this rule could save four or five characters, now, the question is, if, all of these optimizations were in one run, would it be possible to get a 53 character run? I mean, you'd have to get lucky with chess, YouTube video length, oh! I forgot to mention something, if you enter a URL that is one second longer than the time it asks you, it'll still count since YouTube videos will show its length, but then it might just be a second shorter. And, because there are 2000 different seconds Rule 24 can give you, getting a URL you want would be 1 in 1000 technically. Also there's like sixty URLs in this document so, might as well be like 1 in 14 ok i just keep talking So... Has a 53 character run been done yet? Unfortunately, no. A few days after Rule 14s geoguessr rule broke, it was unfortunately fixed. And, many of these strategies I talked about were found out after geoguessr (Rule 14) was fixed. Theoretically a 53 character run is possible using this password. But because geoguessr (Rule 14) is back, a 53 character run may not happen for a good amount of time.. Nothing big has been discovered for a while and this is the furthest people have taken minimum characters. It's, only a matter of time until it might just happen or, another optimization could be found for the 53 character run to be a reality. And, who knows, maybe one day we'll get closer to an actual password.