Welcome to the MEP Academy. We're going CFM, RPM, Brake Horsepower, and Static Pressure. So, here's a fan chart. As you notice, looking for a certain CFM with a certain static and capacity. So ,these are the static pressures going down the chart depending on which static static pressure and you're looking for will do that for you. So at a 1/4&quot; you can get a CFM. Now the way they get more CFM using the same do 884 up to 1,179. How they do that is changing (RPM). So at the smaller CFM it's going slower, they get more CFM at the same static pressure. Now going to the right here, for the same fan, at your CFM is getting eaten up by this increase in RPM, Break horsepower, static pressure, or CFM, I want to show you again how these numbers you can determine the fourth. It's just a basic condition on an existing fan, you can determine So, in this case here, I want to show you how and CFM along the bottom, and you have your RPM, fixed curve for this particular fan. So if we had along that 1/4&quot; line until you hit the RPM line, point it intersects to see what your CFM would be, hundred, so that's 10 times a 100, you would 700 RPM the speed of your fan, you're going static pressure goes up and you have the Well you can see that your CFM had dropped off, so the resistance in the duct, the resistance to static pressure. So, let's say you had the that would increase the static pressure, increase the static pressure. So, with the same that increased static pressure would give you less 600, not quite in the middle here, not quite 700. more static pressure, is giving you less CFM. the field, you increase the resistance on the something happened to increase the the static anything that increases the resistance on but now you're getting less CFM. So, now if curves for this same fan. I'm going to pick a So in this example we have 0.4 inches of that where this line, the static pressure line there tells us how much CFM we're going to get. So if we change the RPM, we increase the speed of So you can see we increase the speed. So you're the same static pressure as the one we had before, to the next line of the column for the same fan, going to come straight down to see how much CFM CFM. So by increasing the speed of the fan, fan will allow us to increase the RPM. So if same static pressure, static pressure is not the fan, and we're noticing the results of the CFM. So you can see here, line 3, the third at 650 RPM, we increased it to 750 So with these formulas here, you can determine the chart. So in this example here we're going we want to get at least 2,200 CFM. So all you do We know the existing CFM because we've measured we've also measured it. We know what CFM we want, So we put the values in because we're looking have to be to get the new CFM that we two is new, one is old. 2 new, 1 old. So 2 1 is the old number or the existing number. you remember what ,what is new the new number we had a 1,000 RPM existing RPM1, CFM1 is the old existing CFM. You just do that speed the fan up to 1,100 RPM, CFM2. So just using that, we didn't know what the CFM was, and we're do it this way, you would do it the other way, formula works any way you want. So, CFM old or CFM over the old speed. Existing speed will tell you Now with static pressure. So with static pressure square root of the static pressure new over Pause the video, work these formulas. Look at the In this case the 2,000 CFM of existing, and let's over the existing static pressure, would So just just work these formulas out, they're the practicing. In this case, this CFM is based either one of those, you're going to get a new what you're trying to solve. So, in this and we're using the same values we used before. CFM new by changing the brake horsepower here. in order to get more CFM. Okay, here's the last So, the new brake horsepower, what is it going brake horsepower 1, the existing, let's say and once again we're using the 2,200 CFM for So to get the new brake horsepower you new CFM, divided by existing CFM cubed. brake horsepower for your new horsepower new static pressure you use the existing static squared. So once again put all those values in, do thing to do is to practice these calculations figure out any one of these variables. It's So we hope you learned something here today, and in upcoming videos so be sure to Subscribe if