Hey there guys. Paul here from TheEngineeringMindset.com. In this video, we're going to be looking and we're going to learn how it works. Now, the centrifugal type pump is the most common type and pretty much every commercial Many of our homes, houses and apartments, even ships and aircraft, they'll all have at least one It's actually pretty rare that doesn't have one installed. Now, larger sites, especially a commercial they're most likely gonna and this is to serve the different systems they have within the building. So typically, you know, or anything really where around some pipe work or the process. So, if you're in engineering or you're looking to get into this, you're gonna come across these very often. They're absolutely everywhere. Now in a typical setup, an induction motor is mounted at the back. A shaft is then run between the rotor of the motor over into the pump. And the impellor is then The induction motor rotates the shaft, which in turn rotates the impellor. Changing the speed of the motor will change the speed of And in this method, you can then change the The impellor then sits where it's completely sealed in. You shouldn't be able to look inside it or any of its components. So, the centrifugal pump has two ports, an inlet and also an outlet. The inlet is always through the center, usually on a horizontal axis like this, whereas the exit is on the vertical axis. So this is known as the suction line, and this is known as the discharge line. The impellor where it's it should always be submerged in water, otherwise it will not be and operate correctly. This can cause cavitation where the water inside due to the low pressure and this can cause severe The pump casing has a volute running around the circumference The volute, which is sitting on the has an increasing diameter the inside in a most of the pump all the way around up until This change in diameter and obviously that means an increase in the mass and overflow starts to build up. The water or fluid starts through the inlet port. As the water enters into the impellor, the force of it pushes All the water that is is in collecting into the volute. And you can see has and making its way out through the top. The impellor has these veins, these curved shapes here, and they run from the center all the way out to the outer edge. This type of impellor is known as the backwards curve type impellor, which is the most common and most efficient It's important to remember that these veins do not push the The water actually flows in between these and the veins help provide a which forces that water out of the pump. To understand how this works, let's have a look at the impellor. Now when the impellor begins to spin, it creates a low pressure this part here. This low pressure suction pulls the fluid into the center of the impellor. And we know that when you spin something, it always tries to move away over to the outer edge. So, we have this outward force here, which shows by this line. We also know that the So, we can show that with this line here. So as this rotates, it's following its radial force. These forces combined give And this resultant force shows that the fluid will exit the impellor following a spiral trajectory. So the volute is therefore and direct the fluid. As the water collects in and this converts its kinetic The water continues to And this is what pushes the water, allowing it to maintain pressure And this allows water to all the way around the building. And that is why they are used all around the world. And this is the inside of a pump casing. You can see inside of the volute there as it's increasing and going I just put my hand there so you can see that's And this is the view just so you can see how it would channel out. This is inside the impellor. You can see the blades here. And you can just turn Don't worry, it's not I'm not gonna cut my hands off. I just rotate like so. And this just shows you This is just a stock You can see the impellor in there and also a flow arrow indicating Now this is just the shaft and this would fit inside And this is looking inside So, the rotor would sit in here and the shaft would come out of here. That shaft will then as shown here. And that impellor would and be bolted onto it. And obviously you can see the volute here with the increasing diameter running around the circumference The pumps might not always They could also be on This is another view of it there. This is less energy efficient and some frictional losses So, if you can use direct drive, they're much more efficient. Using direct drive is also And these pumps will, they'll keep running a real workhorse of the industry. But anyway, that's it for this video. Thank you very much for watching. I hope this has helped. Please don't forget to And if you have any questions, please leave them in the Also, don't forget to TheEngineeringMindset.com. Thanks for watching.