Guys, if you want to become a better chess and guidelines that can really help you in your work 90% of the times. In today's chess video, play smarter moves and eventually win more BetterHelp for sponsoring this video. This is probably the most common principle very important as they allow more mobility a better chance of winning if you grab the just making a lot of moves on the side. Development in chess is nothing but bringing done here for the knights &amp; the bishops. chance of attacking &amp; winning the game. So Principle number 3. Avoid Generally speaking, you must not make in the opening. You simply waste a move &amp; develop his pieces &amp; gain central control. Principle number 4. Develop Its always a good idea to develop with tempo which pieces, but also attack the opponent with the will force him to take defensive action, So try to develop your pieces with tempo! When developing your pieces, its generally bishops because the knights generally occupy straightforward. Whereas, the bishops have a lot its better to position them later depending the knights before the bishops. the same piece twice in the opening again &amp; again, you're just wasting time. All your opponent gets a huge lead in development. So Principle number 7. Avoid Since the queen is the strongest piece on say something like this, it can easily be attacked you just keep moving your queen here and development &amp; you end up in a bad position. Principle number 8. Castle Quickly as early as possible because your king better than being stuck in the middle where your Principle number 9. Avoid moving Once you've castled, these pawns become very you move them, you create these weaknesses which moving these pawns unless you have a good reason. if your king is not castled center of the board, its generally not a good if you play d4, pawn takes, knight takes and This is something you want to avoid, so its Guys, we've covered 10 principles &amp; if you've hit the like button below this video right now! Now once you've developed your pieces &amp; castled, This way they can protect each other and these files to easily attack your opponent. Principle number 12. Place your In this position, the 'e' file is an open file to e1 is quite good because it unleashes the rook which has only one colored pawn. For example, here has a black pawn &amp; not a white pawn. So, even a control of the semi-open file. So you should try Principle number 13. Position A rook on the seventh rank is typically very fantastic move. Because it makes this rook pawns &amp; ties down the enemy king. So try to get for black, this second rank is actually Principle number 14. Doubled Rooks In this position, white already has his rooks. But he can extend his dominance as well. Now it becomes very difficult because of these doubled rooks. So try Principle number 15. Don't If you sacrifice material, make sure you have randomly sacrificing on f7 with the hope that they doesn't work. After a few checks, their attack So if you sacrifice for an initiative, make sure have a good reason before sacrificing your pieces. As the name suggests, forcing moves force Specifically, these are checks, captures &amp; responses &amp; therefore, they are easy to the pawn. Now it is white's turn, and I want you captures &amp; threats. So a brilliant move here is which finishes off the queen. And even if he forcing moves - first we threaten with the rook, then a check with the knight this time, check and eventually that's a beautiful checkmate. your opponent, so always lookout for such moves! Knights are most effective when they are than on the side of the board. In this case, they control 8 squares each whereas, black's avoid moving your knights to the side. trading your bishop for a knight its generally not a good idea to give up your better than knights in most cases so don't trade Principle number 19. Capture When you have an option to capture a piece to capture towards the center of the board. take with either of these pawns. If you take with capturing with the 'a' pawn is considered better Principle number 20. Centralize In an endgame like this, the king no longer needs your king &amp; use it more like an aggressive make it more active &amp; try to grab all these Alright, we have many more important principles thank BetterHelp for sponsoring this video. Guys, very stressful. Whenever I'm in a stressful or But most of the times, your thoughts are not in professional therapist who can take care of your be a daunting experience, but BetterHelp makes it online platform where you can seek therapy at your by answering a few questions, you get matched to is that if you don't really get along with that additional cost. So basically, BetterHelp wants to that you can start living a happy &amp; healthy life. go to this link: BetterHelp.com/ChessTalk you'll get 10% off on your first month. Link is Principle number 21. Avoid doubled Pawns its not such a great move because you've a big problem because this guy is now blocked &amp; going forward, so they are easy to target. Principle number 22. Avoid Isolated Pawns any pawns on their adjacent files. This h pawn pawns on the g file to support it. Similarly, because there are no other pawns on either so this is something you want to avoid! Now in this case, if you play c4, you've created pawn because all the pawns on its adjacent it an easy target since there is no other pawn Principle number 24. Create protected passed pawns all its opposing pawns. You must always try to pawns. For example, after black plays c5, instead be to just push it forward so that it creates a there are no opposing pawns in front of it or on promoted. Not only this, it is also a protected pawn. This makes it extremely dangerous because it it controls these very important squares in for oppurtunities to create passed pawns! behind Passed Pawns you have a passed pawn on c5 since there are no this position, a really good strategy would so that it always stays protected &amp; you can than going this way because you just control especially if your opponent goes behind it. So Principle number 26. Knights Now this is clearly a closed position since knights are way more powerful than the bishops whereas the bishop can't do much. So Principle number 27. Bishops Now in the same game, if you did not this is an open position. And bishops dominate all these squares are covered and the knight is they take some time to reach a far-off square another in a single move. So, in open games, Principle number 28. Place your pawns on In this game, if you look at both these bishops, Obviously, the black bishop is much better open diagonals. The bishop is on a dark square &amp; the other side, if you look at the white bishop, own pawns are on the dark squares. The bishop is So generally, its a good practice to place your Principle number 29. Exchange your passive Looking at the same example, we now know that bishop. So a good idea for white would be to bishop b4 is great because you force him to off your passive piece. You can now improve c7 and then going after these pawns. So making Principle number 30. Improve Now many times, it is not possible to immediately if you're struggling to come up with a move, a active piece. Look at all these pieces least active? The knights &amp; bishops are This rook is also on a semi-open file, which so a good move here would be rook to d1 since that's how you can find good moves especially Principle number 31. Avoid pointless exchanges these 2 options to exchange pieces, but none you simply allow black to develop his bishop. then you allow the queen to develop. Usually, especially when you have other better moves "To take is a mistake". Of course, this doesn't that you should avoid making equal trades Principle number 32. Trade Pieces In this position, white is struggling for space. can do. So a good option in such positions is space. Like here, he can exchange his knight for squared bishops. And after the knight moves which is much better to play with. in material, Trade Pieces but not Pawns you're ahead in material, and not trade the pawns. white is up the exchange since he has a rook for to trade off the pieces. Exchange these queens, when he is left with a rook vs knight endgame, these pawns. And having a pawn majority can be promote one of his pawns to a queen. On the other be only left with the pieces, and even after the to win a rook vs knight endgame. So, you need Principle number 34. When Down in Same as the earlier principle, if you were to the rule of thumb is to trade pawns, but not black will mostly likely save the game endgames is much higher. So, try to trade Principle number 35. Counter attack Many times, in your games, you'll find players who these pawns, we call this a flank attack. The best up the center. This is a great strategy to king is stuck in the middle. Attack the Base of a Pawn Chain has a really long pawn chain, its generally a good is the only pawn which is undefended. Rest all good move here would be bishop to b8 or even Principle number 37. Knights In this position, black has a passed pawn which forward. Now one of the best options for block it with the knight. Knights are usually jump over pieces &amp; control many squares even is a good way to use your knights. squares to punish your opponent those squares that cannot be defended by any these 2 squares cannot be defended by any of pawns have already moved forward, they cannot go Principle number 39. Occupy Now once you've identified these weak squares, minor pieces, &amp; not the pawns. So, for these 2 like the knights or the bishops. For example, a really good move because it cannot Principle number 40. Get your knights to outposts! square which is on the opponent's side of the cannot be attacked by your opponent's pawn. Principle number 41. Challenge the weak squares This knight is very powerful on this square, so we can challenge it with a move like knight to e7. black. Therefore, a better move for white is to again, you occupy the outpost with your knight. with the bishop. After takes, takes, you occupy time, its the bishop! That's how you can apply Principle number 42. Evaluate every pawn move go backwards. With every pawn move, although you time, you also release control from a few squares. every pawn move, you have to make a choice as to you have let go or the one for which you want to you have to make. For example, here, black played I want to hear from you in the comments. Principle number 43. Look I've seen many players resigning &amp; leaving a winning position. But you should keep fighting you cannot win, there are always opportunities in this position, white gives a check, he blocks in material, there is an absolutely brilliant move Can you find it? Let me know in the comments... of Two Weaknesses we look for a weakness in the opponent's camp way. However, creating one weakness is usually all his resources to its defense. That's where the a second weakness or multiple weaknesses - then attack &amp; it becomes very difficult for him to weaknesses on different sides of the board. Almost if you strike one more blow, his position will this pawn. He tries to add another defender, but is hanging. And that's how you breakthrough. You the other pawn. This is how rapidly his position Principle number 45. 2 minor pieces Generally speaking, its not a good idea pawn. They both add upto 6 points, but If its not that great because they are Principle number 46. 3 minor In most cases, three well-coordinated minor you get an opportunity to pick up 3 minor pieces Principle number 47. 3 pawns vs a minor piece a minor piece, the minor piece is usually we look at the endgame, the 3 pawns usually where they're pushing so strongly towards a piece against 3 pawns, do keep this in mind. In order to push your opponent on the defensive, a do I mean by easy targets? Look, easy targets position. You can attack pinned pieces, you exposed king. These are the kinds of weaknesses the black king is exposed. Not only this, we can like queen c3. This knight is now pinned, its like if he does, then queen g7 is a checkmate. attacking easy targets to dominate your opponent. When you're thinking in a game of chess, there your threats, your ideas. What you want to do? But is all about what your opponent wants to do? What you think from your opponent's point of view, and in this position, black plays bishop c7. The "Why did he play this? What does he want to do?" go after this pawn &amp; then target our king. it's a good idea to play something like g3 in really great way of neutralizing your opponent's Principle number 50. Practice makes a man perfect chess player, you have to play the game, you these principles in your games, you need to most of us is that we just keep thinking, I want to do that, but we never really do it. applies to everything in life, not only chess! subscribe to the channel &amp; I