Few regions in the world have remained a hotspot the Middle East has. From its pivotal role in developing civilisation of khilafa's that forged the largest empire where it is known for being a particularly the promise of returning to past glory. Its recent past has been hindered by obstacles European imperialism came and dominated the But Europe retreated from the Middle East cropped up and tried to enact their visions Ayatollah Khomeini; Gamal Abdel Nasser; Saddam Join me as I delve into the history of 9 pivotal crucial period from the end of WWII to the today. Perhaps no other issue has shaped post-WWII Middle East like the Palestinian-Israeli conflict has. The establishment of the state of Israel in 1948 and the subsequent expulsion of hundreds of thousands of Pals has caused an enmity that is still visible to the present day. The issue has been so central that all the prominent strains of ideological thought have addressed it; whether it was Nationalism, Pan-Arabism or Islamism. The conflict has led to numerous wars and has repeatedly needed the world's superpowers to step in and mediate. Through various twists and turns, Palestine and Israel have gone on to experience very different fates - with the dreams and aspirations of one moving further away from reality; whilst the other is moving towards its manifestation. Before we continue a quick word from the sponsor is an app that helps you understand the most books and podcasts in bite-sized fashion. This wide compendium of knowledge is spread wherever. Available in both audio and written form, into your everyday life. I just finished listening to the Blinks on been meaning to read this for a while and taster of what to expect from the book. World Order is much acclaimed for its prescient history which have come to shape the geo-political With Blinkist you can discover great books such as Thomas Paine's 'Common Sense' They also have an exciting new feature called add and recommend titles all in one place. All members of a shared Space can access all premium subscription. I've created my own called Hikma, which Get a 20% off Blinkist monthly Premium by They even have a 7-day free trial! (LINK) Thanks Blinkist for sponsoring, check Back to the video we go! https://www.blinkist.com/hikmahistory WWII proved to be particularly important for Certain Zionist groups such as Irgun had initiated the bombing of the King David Hotel in 1946 At the same time, Arabs were still unhappy Feeling unable to deal with a problem it had to terminate its Mandate and pass the Palestine In the immediate aftermath of WWII, the persecution in Europe certainly won the Zionist cause arena. In late 1947, the UN announced its Plan to state; the Arabs were absolutely furious, part. The very next day a civil war erupted between into a war between the newly established Israel 1948. By early 1949, Israel had emerged victorious The War is remembered in Israel as the War the conflict as the Nakba, the Catastrophe. Seen as a low point in Palestinian history, 750,000 of them were forced to flee their Israel gained 60% of the area proposed for Return in 1950 which over the next few decades especially Muslim countries, the right to The territory not conquered by Israel was which were annexed by Jordan, whilst Egypt Crucially, Israel had only signed Armistice With the absence of peace treaties, the prospect There would be three more major Arab-Israeli The first of which, the 1956 Suez Crisis saw gang up on Gamal Abdel Nasser's Egypt. In the 1950s and 60s, ideas of Pan-Arabism its charismatically defiant leader. The cause of Falasteen was left to its Arab The problem was, often times, the other Arab of their own national interests. It was only in the aftermath of Israel's Palestinian's really tried to instrumentalise the political scene. Already in 1964, the PLO, the Palestinian an umbrella organisation with various activist liberate Palestine. Key nationalist militant groups, calling themselves and the PFLP headed by George Habash. Initially the insurgents attacked Israeli bearing in mind that the West Bank and the IDF, the Israeli Defence Force during the as the IDF sharply cracked down on their activity. Then the PLO moved their bases to neighbouring the profile of the Palestinian armed struggle In the process, the fedayeen brandished themselves to pay attention to the Palestinian's plight civilian airplanes. In fact, the PLO became so powerful that it in Jordan; to neutralise the threat to his ordered the Jordanian Forces to attack it The ultimate trigger for this was actually The name Black September was co-opted by a the level of violence used, this is best exemplified By 1971 the PLO had been kicked out of Jordan used as a base to strike Israel. Lebanon was a fractured country at that point within its domestic politics. In 1975, a messy civil war erupted which the 3 years later, Israel invaded Southern Lebanon, soil. They would be forced to get involved in the invasion of Lebanon forced the PLO out of All the while this was happening, the enmity not subsided. In 1973, Syria and Egypt attacked Israel; Arabs, they did surprisingly well relative But Nasser's successor, Anwar Sadat, was neighbour to whom Egypt had lost control of In 1978, the two former foes came together president Carter, where the Egyptians agreed agreed to withdraw from the Sinai Peninsula. Subsequently, President Sadat and Prime Minister The Arab world however was shocked, its leader the enemy and sold the Palestinians out; consequently Sadat would pay for Camp David Accords with an Islamist. As for the Palestinians, their struggle had to show for it. By the beginning of the 1980s, they remained Arab world with refugee status. Israel, on the other hand, had gone from fighting comfortable position against its foes. It's often the case that negotiations take dominant. Having thus achieved the upper hand against years between the late 70s and the mid 90s, with Egypt and Jordan and even signed agreements This transition was also reflected in its As its external worries lessened, so too did From the 1970s onwards, Israel experienced its economy become more liberalised. Even as Egypt came under the influence of century, it remained a centre of dynamic avant-garde Throughout the 20th century, the revolutionary and assert Egyptian sovereignty. The pinnacle of this assertiveness was reached presidency in the 1950s and 1960s saw Egypt Arab countries aspired to be. Nasser's popularity grew to such levels and threatened to undermine any Arab government Egypt was the first Arab country to gain independence issues still plagued the Land of the Nile. King Farouk lived lavishly as one of the world's quite poor. The vital passageway of the Suez Canal was Egypt had lost the 1948 war against Israel, for the defeat. All of this was a recipe for revolution. The situation enraged almost every Egyptian the officers of the Armed Forces. On top of that, Arab nationalism had invoked a powerful force for change. In January 1952, riots and a great fire ensued policemen near the Canal Zone. Egypt had reached a boiling point, the end In July 1952, the Free Officers Movement, staged a coup d'etat, taking over the government. A year later, the monarchy was abolished, laid. This was no easy task, as Nasser had to overtake Brotherhood in order to cement his rule. To help him with this, Nasser relied on heavy dissent and empowering the secret police. At the same time, Nasser elevated the standard about wide-spread changes to society that Employing socialist-style policies, he introduced of land that could be owned and re-distributed of peasants who became owners for the first Nasser also launched a housing programme which in modern blocks of flats. The lack of medical care in the country saw His most noteworthy project was the Aswan With the Egyptian economy being largely agricultural, So Nasser decided to build the Aswan Dam to Seeking funds from Western states and organisations after he made contact with their Soviet rivals Consequently, the Egyptian leader had to find the British-owned Suez Canal in July 1956. His Pan-Arab and Anti-Imperialist appeal made the West. Due to this bold move, Israel conspired with on Egypt in October of that year. Although the Triple Alliance was winning militarily, the three invading countries were forced to It did not matter that the Egyptian Army had now the undisputed leader of the Arabs, having Egypt went on to become the capital of the As living standards and national morale hit and music came about. Through the Voice of the Arabs radio station government held unparalleled influence over In a move to cement his status as the new Syria. The historic move came about in 1958, as the the project soon ended in failure, as Egypt The inequality of the relationship naturally a coup took place in Syria in 1961 which ended Despite this setback, Nasser was still wildly Seeking to export the Nasserist ideological internal affairs of several Arab states, where and politicians in their quest to assume power. Nasser even got involved in the North Yemen war drained the Egyptian state of money and Still, enthusiasm was everywhere until 6 fateful After Egypt made it clear that it intended a pre-emptive strike in early June that completely This sealed the fate of the war. The Israelis rapidly advanced, occupying the war ended 6 days later. Nasser publicly resigned due to the humiliation, return led to him remaining in power. The tide of Pan-Arabism had shored up and shame and sadness. Its charismatic leader Nasser would die only Despite the humiliating defeat, he was still people showing up to his funeral. He was succeeded by his Vice-President, Anwar Sadat launched what he termed the Corrective to foreign policy and the economy in order Seeking to realign Egypt with the United States, advisors and implemented a set of liberal that privatized much of the economy. One important task on his agenda was reclaiming Syria on a joint offensive against Israel. Egypt was to regain the Sinai, whilst Syria On 6 October 1973, the Egyptians and Syrians The Egyptians scored victories early on, and Despite the initial shock of the attack, the gained the ascendancy by the end. A ceasefire then came into effect on the 25th Sinai. Seeking to normalise relations with his Jewish of Israel signed the Camp David Accords in The Egyptians would become the first Arab the Israelis agreed to hand the Sinai Peninsula Although Sadat and Begin won the Nobel Peace a stab in the back. Egypt went from being the leader of the Arab as a result of the peace treaty. Upon assuming power, Sadat relaxed the restrictions back to haunt him as he was assassinated by of Israel being used as the key grievance Besides Egypt, the other hub of ideological Becoming a centre of Arab nationalism early euphoric aftermath of gaining independence It had to contend with a new belligerent neighbour wars with; it also had to deal with numerous the rise of Seen as a stronghold of Arab nationalist thought, place to subjugate. In mid 1941, the British had retaken Syria Intense efforts from nationalists in the immediate in 1946. However, Syrians would find out that French that obstructed their nation building mission. Established as a democracy with nationalist political scene would remain fragile and chaotic In addition, straight after its independence, In 1948, the State of Israel was established, With its status as the unofficial home of join its fellow Arab states in its offensive The Syrian military was inefficient and inexperienced, Palestine and forced to sign an armistice That year proved to be pivotal for modern even over, the country had the first of its In March, Army Chief of Staff Husni al-Zaim at the hands of Israel as justification for Within the context of the Cold War rivalry, Communist Party presence within his country; have been made in the years after the incident. The domino effect had begun. Before the end of the year, Adib al-Shishakli unification with Hashemite Iraq became advanced. Even though the Syrian economy would grow instability would continue. In order to solidify his control, Shishakli groups, such as the Druze. Shishakli's quest to build a totalitarian merchant classes. As a result, yet another coup took place in across the political scene. A short period of democracy followed that of leftists drew the country into the rivalry known as the Syrian Crisis of 1957. Whilst Syria was experiencing extreme volatility, leadership role thanks to the modernization government that had inspired the Arab world. Gamal Abdel Nasser's message of Arab unity In 1958, with the political scene in disarray al-Quwatli signed off on the unification of Arab Republic which was to be led by Nasser. The euphoria from the merger soon subsided Syria. Positions of importance within Syria were Nasser tried to deal with Syria's political including the increasingly popular Arab Socialist On top of this, the UAR gave Syria's economy amongst the large and numerous merchant families As the former Syrian minister of propaganda retinue thought that he had inherited our All of this frustration materialized into The UAR was broken up and Syria asserted its Although its liberties were restored, its The next 18 months would see a wave of coups In March 1963, Ba'athist military officers A month before, the Iraqi branch of their Ba'athism, from the Arabic Ba'ath meaning Pan-Arab, anti-imperialist and Arab socialist Their political party in Syria had been effectively Salah Jadid and Hafez al-Assad; and the civilian Aflaq and Salahudin al-Bitar. Even at this time, the prospect of a federation but never came to fruition. An internal power struggle ensued within the by Aflaq and al-Bitar vs the radical new guard The latter emerged victorious in the 1966 of the Ba'athist Party in Syria. The Ba'athist assumption of power provided as dissent was largely banned. Out of the 4 officers who led the 1966 coup, and 2 Alawites. This meant that the country's Sunni majority They also pursued socialist policies which mercantile and political families. In 1967, Syria entered the Six Day War and important Golan Heights, causing 100,000 people The Ba'athist governing council once again Jadid and al-Assad, the latter emerging victorious in 1970. Hafez al-Assad mixed his strategic intelligence did not suffer the same fate as his predecessors. To do this, he played off of Syria's religious At the same time as promoting the idea of Hafez used sectarian divisions to further The Syrian political chambers were stacked majority, whilst his fellow Alawites were the Armed Forces. In another attempt to appeal to upper society, many of the reforms of the '60s. The fact that the country was being run by especially since the offshoot of Shia Islam majority Sunni's. Even though he tried to portray himself as the secular nature of his 1973 constitution. Islamist groups represented the biggest challenge 1976 that was to last 6 years. With the Muslim Brotherhood being cast into Hafez was finally able to quell the insurrection Foreign policy-wise, Al-Assad was largely Firstly, Israel. Together with Egypt, Syria declared war against well for the Arabs, the war finished on a a dominant position. Later Syria severed ties with Egypt in the The other important issue involved its other With the onset of sectarian fuelled Lebanese side of the Maronite-dominated government. The Syrian intervention in Lebanon would go domination of the country. It would maintain its presence in Lebanon as the Cedar Revolution forced them to withdraw Syria's next door neighbor had broken off starting in the 19th century. After WWI, it had benefitted in attaining until it gained its independence in 1943. At first the country achieved a great deal the most prosperous in the region during the Beirut became the 'Paris of the Middle East'. But by the 1970s the country would be dragged century Middle East. The Middle East has a rich tradition of religious This diversity is exemplified by the modern The country has a large population of Christians, Greek Orthodox; Muslims also make up a large of both Sunnis and Shias. Then there are numerous minority groups such Unfortunately for the Lebanese people, this Imperial powers who sought to play the different to further their own interests. The French mandate in Lebanon and Syria after Overall, Lebanon has a grand total of eighteen makes dividing power a particularly strenuous A census carried out in 1932 put the Christians the bedrock of a political system that has the affairs of the country. The Christian ascendancy and the results of Pact of 1943, an unwritten agreement between what the political structure of Lebanon would Here are some of the key points of the agreement: were both to be Maronites; the Prime Minister was to be a Shia; The Deputy Speaker of Parliament Orthodox Christian; the Chief of the General and within Parliament there would always be to Muslims. Although it initially kept the peace, the a census meant that if there was a shift in turbulence. And that's exactly what would happen. In 1943 Lebanon gained independence from the Shortly after, the establishment of Israel in over 100,000 Palestinian refugees fleeing Many felt that the arrival of the largely sectarian balance, which resulted in their society. In 1952, the Maronite Camille Chamoun became He was notable for his unbridled support of a region where Gamal Abdel Nasser's brand Discontent grew, especially in Muslim and with Arabist ideas, but felt underrepresented When pro-Chamoun troops fired on a group of injuring seventy three, tensions were ignited. The following month, pro-Chamoun candidates elections, an event that the opposition publicly Nasser took note of the increasing discontent and began materially and diplomatically supporting The following year, Egypt and Syria united in Lebanon. Demonstrations kicked off again and only grew Finally, the straw that broke the camel's editor critical of Chamoun's government Anti-government and anti-American riots broke Many countries accused Nasser of provoking tightening around his neck. Sandwiched between a hostile union, he called After President Eisenhower authorized it, the Americans did not lose a valuable ally The troops withdrew by October the same year, the slightly more moderate Fouad Chehab was Civil war was narrowly avoided for the time It is worth noting that this crisis took two and socialists, typical of the Cold War, and Muslims. The following decade was one of calm and prosperity. Aside from the political stability, Beirut's sprawling port made it the financial capital Western countries and wealthy Persian Gulf "The Paris of the Middle East." Tourism became an important part of its economy. For a time, things were going smoothly in world, disputes in other countries tended The 1967 Six Day War brought even more Palestinian in 1970 when the PLO were forcibly expelled Lebanon. An armed and foreign force was concerning but many Sunnis welcomed the guerillas, who that had so long been tipped in favour of The presence of the PLO brought to the surface previously been swept under the rug. When observing the start of the Lebanese civil incidents as beginning the conflict, but in of tensions. One key incident that can be identified within early 1975. Camille Chamoun, now ex-president of Lebanon Party, had business interests in relation He wanted to monopolize fishing off the coast port city in the South of Lebanon. The unionized local fishermen, led by former small demonstration in the city. Whilst rallying, Saad was shot and killed Exact details have not been confirmed, but the killer was a soldier in the Lebanese Army. Saad's funeral was attended by thousands, living in the city. Led in part by the PLO, the funeral evolved sometimes violent ones, erupted across the More than a dozen were killed by state security The circumstances for a conflict were brewing, state of Civil War on April 13, 1975. At a church in East Beirut, a Maronite family figures, most importantly Pierre Gemayel, As all were waiting outside of a Church, gunmen of a Leftist Palestinian group. Four were killed, but the militias missed Still, Gemayel's armed faction, the Kataeb, And so that day, the Kataeb set up checkpoints When they came across a group of civilians a bus, they fired on it and killed 27 or 28 PLO guerillas). As a result, armed clashes began. In the years following, the various militia Christians were expelled en masse from West from Communists to Shia Islamists, made rapid In December of that year, following the assassination the Maronite Kataeb set up checkpoints once The Lebanese ID cards stated religion on them, a sectarian basis. Anywhere from 200-600 Muslims and Druze were Black Saturday. The following year, another massacre was committed nieghbourhood of Karantina; over 1,000 died. As vengeance, the PLO violated and slaughtered fashion. Lebanon, once a symbol of prosperity, was The conflict would prove to be one of the history, with alliances constantly shifting But at least in the early phase of the war, divided between the Maronite dominated Lebanese incorporated Leftists, Palestinian, Shi'a, To confound matters even further, the conflict Besides the obvious involvement of the USA War, neighbouring Syria invaded in 1976 under Initially intervening on the side of the Maronite shift between the different militia groups. In 1978, Israel would also invade southern fedayeen attacks on its soil. 4 years later, they would invade again; allying the Israelis went on to besiege Beirut and to Tunisia. The Lebanese Civil War would finally come Beirut, once the Paris of the Middle East, saw mainly-Muslim factions take control of used East Beirut as their headquarters in The city was a key battleground during the by the conflict. Iraq in the 20th century encapsulates the Imperialism, oil, nationalism, political turmoil, The country embraced independence under the in 1958 as politicised army officers sought This only made the situation worse, as a violent army and assertive but extreme ideologies. Such an atmosphere facilitated the rise of for over 2 decades. Iraq had gained its independence from Britain movement in the country. But this independence was nominal at best; foreign affairs and oil supply. This fostered huge resentment amongst most of respect for Iraq's sovereignty. Iraqi nationalists were given an opportunity with the start of WWII. Led by Rashid Ali Gailani, the nationalists themselves with Germany; subsequently seizing But Iraq and its resources were too important so the British invaded the country a month again. In the midst of the British jubilation at they no longer had the capacity to maintain This was especially the case in the Middle to be a powerful force in expressing the wishes In Iraq, Rashid Ali Gailani was not alone - Arab nationalist ideas had firmly infiltrated In 1948, the Iraqi government tried to sign which would've seen British influence inside showed their displeasure in the subsequent In 1952, the Iraqi Intifada took place, with an end to the British presence in the country Popular thinkers such as Sati al-Husry had in the 1920s to allow Pan-Arab beliefs to system. From the 1940s, there emerged a trend amongst who subsequently tried to vie for power. This trend was only encouraged by the success Officers group. When the leader of that group, Gamal Abdel the Suez Crisis of 1956, the Arab world's In Nasser, the Iraqi nationalists saw a symbol military officers to organise and model themselves The Hashemite monarchy for its part had tried ideologies by promising land reforms and greater The government's position had been strengthened more money thanks to its oil revenue. But for many in the country, these reforms with them - almost all of the wealth generated small group of Iraqi elites. Iraq's increasing prosperity could not stop Everything would change on July 14th 1958. At the beginning of the year, the Hashemite Federation, a confederation that was supposed United Arab Republic that same year. Later in the summer, Jordan's King Hussein military units to Jordan for fear of a Syrian The Iraqi Free Officers saw this as the perfect The secret group's leader Abd al-Karim Qasim border and instead turned on Baghdad, seizing The coup was effective but set a bloody precedent the country. Since much of the royal family was executed, regent Abdullah. PM Nuri al-Said tried to escape dressed as Abdullah and Said's bodies were then mutilated by the angry mob. The new revolutionary government under PM cut across political factions; whilst this it also gave it a lack of direction and ideological Two main strands of thought emerged in this Qasim and the Iraqi Communist Party that focused whilst another, espoused by pro-Nasserists or Pan-Arab policies. The latter sought to unite with Nasser's supporters wanted to put Iraq first and foremost. Despite these issues, things started out well Social reforms were implemented, ties were were negotiated with the oil company. Qasim was hugely popular amongst the Kurds on his mother's side. He invited prominent Kurdish leader Mustafa give Kurds regional autonomy in return for But by 1961, these relations had soured so war began that year. At the same time, Qasim pursued an aggressive He shunned western powers, choosing to establish He also declared a number of irredentist claims The latter specifically would be menaced by the second half of the 20th century. To make matters worse, Qasim was gaining foes His refusal to expand pan-Arab relations angered Revolution. In 1959, there was even an assassination attempt a young Saddam Hussein. Consequently he cracked down on dissent, even including his friend Abdul Salam Arif who Revolution. Leaving himself politically isolated, it was Qasim's government in the Ramadan Revolution Ironically, Qassim and his comrades died the hands, the only difference was a brief show Similar to Syria's fate in the 1960s, Iraq's chaotic. Before the end of 1963, there was another overthrowing the Ba'athists when negotiations For the next 5 years Arif ruled followed shortly Their rule saw coup attempts from the Ba'athists power under Ahmad Hassan Al Bakr. President Al Bakr pursued a policy of nepotism This nepotism would have huge ramifications of placing fellow Sunni Arabs from the North the country's already somewhat fragile relations Through a mix of political genius and unprecedented the leading figure within the government, Saddam's career prior to 1968 was unremarkable man nor an intellectual; he had thrown his happened to be Ba'athists. Subsequently he was used as a strongman and assassination in 1959 being one such example. After 1968, he was catapulted into the political For as long as Saddam had been alive, massive cut across ethnic, religious, political and So he set about to achieve a dual-purpose the Ba'athist Party as well as addressing standards. But Saddam was no angel - he did not do this The great amount of freedom he was afforded increase his power within his party to the Iraq by the second half of the 1970s. Addressing the country's socio-economic amongst ordinary Iraqis encouraged him to of Personality. Saddam's rise to power went hand-in-hand in 1970s Iraq. As a result of its oil reserves, the economy In 1972 Iraq nationalised its oil industry, A year later oil prices boomed in the aftermath other OPEC members benefitted tremendously. Saddam sought to mollify and bring stability services for ordinary people. At the time what Iraq was offering its citizens across the Middle East. Saddam supervised a national infrastructure roads and hospitals. Iraq's public health system became a regional that earned Saddam an award from UNESCO. Education became public and free on all levels, to read within a few years. The government also supported farmers by providing All the while Saddam was strengthening his In a carrot and stick approach, he had fostered Intelligence Service. Initially this was mainly used against political turned against Iraqis; again drawing parallels When President al-Bakr stepped down in 1979, off a chilling and dramatic show of his power. In July, a week after becoming President, where he told them that he had uncovered a With an incredible flair for the dramatic, hurt by the supposed betrayal as the whole One of the alleged leaders of the conspiracy, be tortured beforehand, then read out 68 names These men were subsequently executed over Saddam had completed his purge and was now But what ensued was a far cry from the earlier An Islamic Republic had been established in became President. He became worried that the new Shi'a theocratic tensions - a problem that was especially worrisome though its government was largely ruled by In addition, Iraq had irredentist claims over since the 1960s. In 1974 when the Second Iraqi-Kurdish War war with Mustafa Barzani's Kurdish militia Iran. The war only ended when Iran promised to stop to border issues along the Persian Gulf at In September 1980, Saddam abrogated this agreement superiority as well as Iran's domestic turmoil But this did not happen. Instead, Iran became galvanised by the outside The war dragged on for 8 years with no territorial stalemate. Unfortunately for the Iraqi people, the war that had taken place in the previous decade. Saddam's rule would stubbornly survive until by the USA invaded Iraq and ousted the Ba'athists Saddam was tried for crimes against humanity Before I go, I wanna address something very I'm sure many of you will wonder why the There's a simple reason for that - my aim of Iraq's history from the 1940s until the This means that anything which requires me Iraqi history in this period from a birds-eye I do intend to make more content about Kurds their 20th century history, check out my video Until next time, Peace! How Jordan Became So Stable neighbour Jordan has been ruled by the same Unlike the terrible fate suffered by the Iraqi of Jordan have fared much better; under the Jordan became a beacon of stability in the This is despite its turbulent history which such as a belligerent and assertive neighbour Gamal Abdel Nasser and his Socialist Pan-Arab Within a year of WWII ending, Transjordan Britain; with its leader Emir Abdullah being Abdullah was the son of the Sheriff of Mecca, the Ottomans in WWI and the scion of the Hashemite The Hashemites maintained positive relations there was still a great deal of British influence the nation's elite fighting, the Arab Legion The first major test for this fledgling state Palestine should be split between the Arabs The resolution was met with fury and condemnation Although there is evidence to suggest King relations with Zionist leaders in Mandatory nations in declaring war against newly established This underscores a trend in Jordanian history took actions contrary to the ones it desired, or even regional circumstances forcing their In any case, the war ended up being a disaster able to keep the territory allotted to the Arab state as well. Transjordan was perhaps the only Arab country with its Arab Legion taking control of the Now that they controlled both sides of the its name to Jordan in 1949. The very next year it formally annexed the of its Arab neighbours. The country's population tripled as a result, These new citizens were then given full individual Palestinian refugees living in most other This highlights an essential point that needs country's history in the second half of country was as close to the Palestinian struggle After all, 2/3 of its population were Palestinians! However, King Abdullah's perceived lack worried many of his citizens. So in 1951, as he was visiting Al-Aqsa Mosque year old grandson, the future King Hussein, Jordan's only ruler thus far. Apparently Hussein was also shot, but the by his now dead grandfather. The throne then passed to Abdullah's son The new king introduced the country's constitution But this was the one and only noteworthy achievement Because he was subsequently forced to abdicate he was suffering from the mental illness, His son Hussein would ascend the throne at This happened at a time when the Hashemite Gamal Abdel Nasser had come to power in Egypt the process positioning himself as a foe to King Hussein also found himself getting dragged In 1955, the Baghdad Pact saw neighbouring in an alliance that was intended to serve implicit sponsorship of the United States Jordan was pressured by its former imperial The proposal triggered huge discontent inside the alliance to also be anti-Nasserist in Nasser's socialist pan-Arabist ideas were rhetoric and reassuring confidence gave hope by decades of imperialism. King Hussein reacted decisively; quelling Pact. But more importantly he sought to reduce his The close relations with the British gave ammunition to use against him, especially I imagine it would be very difficult for most much popularity and momentum Nasser had in The Egyptian leader had devoted followers Nasserist-inclined Army officers emerged in to usher in a wave of revolutionary politics. So to prevent this, King Hussein Arabised Glubb Pasha and all other senior British officers Legion was renamed the Jordanian Armed Forces. Later that year, Jordan held a general election elected government. Jordan's "liberal experiment", as Hussein Suleiman Nabulsi became Prime Minister and with the King. In April 1957, Nabulsi's government was A few days later, violent confrontations broke units. Syria sent troops to the border to support But once again the king acted decisively; where the army units had clashed. Hussein was embraced by his army, thus bringing been shrouded in mystery ever since. To this day we're not sure if this really or a staged counter-coup by the royal family. Whatever the case may be, King Hussein imposed which would last until 1989. The threat from Syria and Egypt reached its the United Arab Republic in 1958. Just two weeks later, Hussein and his cousin kingdoms under the Arab Federation. This would be short-lived though, as the Hashemite that year by pro-Nasserist military officers. Hussein had to watch in horror the news coming executed. In this period, there were several attempted But the king survived them all, and he even Despite trying his best to maintain amicable Hussein was once again dragged into Arab-Israeli Many in the Arab world already criticised dealings with Israel. Back-channel lines of communication had existed the conflict. So he felt compelled to join Egypt and Syria Even though he believed the Arab armies were to the Egyptian officer Abdul Munim Riad. On the 5th of June, the Jordanian king's a stunning surprise attack on Egypt, wiping The conflict is now known as the Six Day War Israel routed the combined forces of Jordan, the West Bank, including all of Jerusalem, For Jordan, losing the West Bank was disastrous and a vital economic centre. Subsequently, 300,000 Palestinian refugees King Hussein also now had the added headache resistance movement. This was a headache for him because the PLO headquarters in Jordan; as a result inviting The most remarkable example of this took place on the town of Karameh to destroy the PLO's But what they didn't expect was the stiff The battle restored Jordan's pride as it army. It came as a shock to Israel, but was met that Israel was not invincible. Although the Jordanian army played a much guerrilla fighters. They received a great deal of prestige and to the resistance movement skyrocketed. The PLO became so prominent in Jordan that within a state, violating local laws, shooting King Hussein's very authority was under By September 1970, the inevitable conflict In the events that have since been referred out of the capital Amman within 2 weeks, and were expelled from Jordan; moving their bases From this point on, Hussein would play the Even when Egypt and Syria attacked Israel role to the Syrians in the Golan Heights. The following year at an Arab League Summit, of the Palestinian people; this was a blow up on his claim of speaking on behalf of the Jordan's economy also benefitted from this King Hussein established with the Iraqi leader In 1988, just after the First Intifada had and administrative ties with the West Bank could establish their own independent state, year by declaring a Palestinian state consisting those Palestinians living in the West Bank The following year, the country experienced increasingly worrying state of the economy. This metamorphosised into a political issue political reforms. King Hussein acquiesced; scheduling parliamentary He also introduced the National Charter, a of Jordan. Even though King Hussein had damaged Jordan's relations he had developed with Saddam, the when he signed the Israel-Jordan Peace Treaty of war between the two countries. King Hussein would pass away in 1999 and hand Abdullah II. Nowadays Jordan is one of the most stable highlight the immense skill of King Hussein Jordan during his long 46 year long reign. SAUDI ARABIA Saudi state in barren and underdeveloped. But just a decade later, oil was discovered Supplying the demand of industrialised countries, into a regional powerhouse that could profoundly - As a matter of fact, most of Saudi Arabia's second half of the 20th century were tied First discovered in 1938, King Abdul Aziz to drill for oil and construct oil wells; it could export it to western nations who In cooperation with the American company Aramco, of the largest oil reserves in the world. By the 1950s, production had exceeded an incredible With the Kingdom becoming almost entirely ensured that the deal would continue to sustainably In the original concession with Aramco, a company would employ Saudi Arabs as much as educate native Arabs who would later be employed This Saudi assertiveness was best exemplified American company to share its profits equally Thus establishing a pattern that was followed tried to increase its share of revenue from In 1973, the government bought a 25% interest in 1980, it concluded the outright purchase - On the political front, Saudi Arabia experienced In 1953, Abdul Aziz passed away and was succeeded The new king did not enjoy the trust of his Saud's competence. He was known to be an extravagant spender, foreign borrowing. All the while, Saud's powerful younger brother politician. A rivalry ensued between the two brothers, of Saud in favour of Faisal in 1964. All this came at a time when an Arab Cold monarchies against newly-established progressive Abdel Nasser. Check out the video I did recently on the The Saudi-Egyptian feud reached dangerous War, as both countries backed opposing parties. Domestically, King Faisal's reign oversaw developed greatly, with the help of American Under Faisal, the Kingdom started to flex Even before his accession, Saudi Arabia was organisation created in 1960 and consisting In the aftermath of the 1973 Arab-Israeli proclaim an oil embargo targeting countries The subsequent rise in the price of oil sent Saudi economy to grow massively. Faisal would not live long enough to witness by his nephew in 1975. His half-brother Khalid succeeded him and modernising. The most noteworthy incident of Khalid's seized the Masjid al-Haram, the Grand Mosque Calling for the overthrow of the Al-Saud family, as the Islamic world watched in disbelief. The event did force the Saudi royal family policies and instead move towards empowering The Last Shah of Iran to say the least. Having been traumatised by its exposure to were gripped by the desire to become more In their estimation, if they industrialised of being able to defend themselves against The reign of the last Shah of Iran Mohammed Using the increased revenue of their oil sales, programme that saw Iran make rapid material At the same time however, the dictatorial society. - Scarred from being caught up in the 19th and Britain, Iran sought help from powers in the inter-war period. This became a huge issue once WWII began, country's neutrality, British ownership Oil Company meant that it would not take kindly remaining inside of Iran during the War. When the Shah refused to kick the Germans country in 1941 and forced the Shah to abdicate. His young son, Mohammad Reza Shah was installed Iran then served as a vital conduit through USSR, named the Persian Corridor. The capital Tehran even served as the location in 1943. Once the War was over, the Allied promise Soviets; who even went on to help establish country. One of the earliest confrontations of the resolved and Soviet troops withdrew. - The dominant issue affecting Iranian politics Iranians felt disgruntled by the prospect entirely in the hands of a foreign government. In 1951, Iran's parliament the Majlis named Prime Minister. Immediately, the experienced politician nationalised Oil Company. Whilst this move won him the adoration of to losing a key strategic asset led to the were imposed on Iran and the major refineries During this time there was even a power struggle latter resigning in 1952 but being reinstated at his resignation. The very next year, however, Mossadegh's by the CIA &amp; MI6. The coup put the Shah back in firm control Agreement of 1954, which split the oil revenue consortium of Western companies. - For the next 25 years, the Shah ruled in The increased revenue from oil production of socio-economic reform. In 1963, he announced his White Revolution, country, it focused on a wide-range of issues, for women and industrial development projects. Hoping to appeal to the peasantry, in the to sow the seeds of his downfall as it alienated Demonstrations in 1963 helped transform Ruhollah leader after he criticised the reforms on and accused the Shah of submitting to America The westernizing trend favoured by the Shah of his society. At the same time, his regime was constantly intelligence agency, aggressively cracked All this formulated an atmosphere in which with the Pahlavi regime; by 1978 this culminated other than Ayatollah Khomeini. Feeling his position was untenable, the Shah abolished. Later that same year an Islamic Republic was The Islamic Revolution sent shockwaves throughout Anti-American sentiment had been integral so the new Islamic Republic's relation with Late in 1979, an Islamist student group took the diplomats within hostage. The ensuing diplomatic crisis resulted in the US, which is still the case to this day. For more on the Iran Hostage Crisis, check solely to that topic! The Republic established by Ataturk was an In the aftermath of the great leader's death It had to manage its transition to a multi-party At the same, it had to deal with the fact of Ataturk's vision and thereby would get On top of all this, Turkey had to grapple violence between left-wing and right-wing With Ataturk dying in 1938, the presidency A well-respected figure from the War of Independence, the country saw him maintain Turkey's neutrality with guiding the country through the tricky Domestically, Turkey transitioned to a multi-party Hugely monumental, this development would In the 1950 general election, Inonu's CHP first time someone outside of Ataturk's Under the leadership of Prime Minister Adnan rapid growth. He also relaxed some of the restrictions placed adulation of a large segment of Turkish society. But a faltering economy and an increasingly 1950s saw the military engineer a coup d'etat Seen as the purveyors of Ataturk's vision return power to a civilian government the The rest of the 1960s was characterised by yo-yoed between Inonu's CHP and Suleyman By 1971, instability in Turkish society had felt compelled to intervene in light of the On the back of an economic recession, social demonstrations and violence between left-wing The military were unable to bring any semblance even more fractured with no respite in the Unable to form a strong government, the 70s war in the streets of Turkish cities, as ultranationalist communists, resulting in over 5,000 casualties. In the midst of all this internal strife, to annex Cyprus and thereby prompted the Turkish leading to a de facto partition between Greek All this volatility led to General Kenan Evren 1980. In the years ahead, the Kurdistan Workers' the Turkish state that grew out of discontent who had been victims to the political vision