Here's why. The rich. Oh, nothing. Here's why the rich owed nothing. I'll tell you. So I have a buddy that was in California, and he was driving down the road, and he taken his girlfriend And unfortunately, he drew. He ran a red light and hit somebody right That was obviously a bad. And so what happens is the insurance and most people buy insurance I'm going to need this to fix my car if I get hit or I get another accident, what was call, I think it was called And the damage is of, of the, And so what happened was the insurance, And then all these other things started And so the attorneys then now that they blow through the insurance and the insurance has done its thing, And so they start to go after him And so then what does he have? Well, he had a home, You know, And he had a rental property. The problem is that the attorneys So there's not enough money So they have to look at what else he owns, to get into some bigger damages And some of them are injured. Sano potentially even injured permanently. So these are big numbers just be to cover the car. And so they started to go after him And unfortunately he did not have And that's why they're rich whether they're investments or cars they go first after the person, look at what he owns This is why they're rich. Oh, nothing, because the way is that this individual, one thing in their personal name That's some kind of entity Here are some strategies that protect you, whether you have assets All in one person. That keeps me out of a lot of hot How old are the Ken mcelroy.com So this is a scenario that most people get I love that you brought this example a couple of points that that I'm a it's So number one insurance But it's not the end all be all. A lot of people just say, Get as much insurance as you can. As you can see here, you might be uninsured, underinsured, you think you've got enough money But once something does happen, Your million dollar And so insurance is always but you want to rely on entity like Ken mentioned, as your backstop, So if your friend over here had he had some backstop with entities, And real quick, before we jump off, most of us, even me, have a history Like that's how we shop for insurance and we're buying up from commission That's the other issue, too. It's like who you're buying your insurance from because some insurance agents work so they actually have different and different obligations towards you. Their, their the insurance company gets the best deal. So yeah, always be careful And a lot of the ads I could save you I won't mention any names, but there is So you could reduce your premium, potentially reducing your coverage. And that's that's the problem. I think most of the people driving around have minimal insurance Right. And then a lot of people because they get a sort of homeowner's or an umbrella policy, But those policies don't always cover you, I this was obviously a personal injury, But sometimes people think that those policies cover everything in these insurance policies. It's very, very important Make sure you plug them The way your friend protects should a protect himself there's So there's going to be a judgment And the judgment over here is going to be And what we want to do Can you do a nice job here Most people think of asset protection meaning they've got a rental property explodes or whatever, from the property itself. But what most people forget the car driver, your buddy It's like every day you're doing some dangerous activities, You're always producing liability. And so what most people forget is if somebody sues you personally, the car, you get into a business dispute you want to make sure that there's a barrier And the next level to this is to put your your rentals, your business, your gold, whatever So that way Just like the rich don't own their assets. You own an LLC that owns the asset, you have some protections under the law from actually accessing the assets It also helps with privacy, right? That's the other thing, guys, a judgment or an attorney But the public, you oftentimes to know all the stuff that you're holding, So back in the day, you know, when I, which I went to, And the first thing a plaintiff's lawyer They want to make sure that there are if they win the judgment. You want to know why they only get paid So so think about this. Why would an attorney, why would an attorney spend fighting to get you a judgment? If they're not sure that there's to collect on the other side, So the first thing a plane is more to do And this is where the concept of privacy because they're going to do a bank a real estate sweep. And your personal name starts As somebody who owns a lot of assets, they're going to take the case If they do an asset search the odds of them settling for insurance All right. So how does the average person Like what does a renter do let's say. And they don't quite yet But they're trying to. Well, everything is you want to get educated. So, you know, there's You know, you can Google But once you understand the basics, the first thing you want to do I'm not saying don't get insurance. Insurance is always But if you own a rental property, set up an LLC, usually in the state and make sure you transfer title. It's the big one. Once you set up an LLC, from your personal name into the LLC setting up a policy So make sure you transfer the title don't actually own the property itself, and you own the LLC that will protect you for example, on your property but also could protect you in a case I know we've had some issues fire, flood, you know, wind like things that have damaged And some people have even got hurt. So that what happens is they like, the apartment complex or the landlord Right? Yep. So if you have this rental in an LLC, will be exposed. So if you have a bank account or the equity in that rental But anything outside of this LLC, or your personal, residence should be excluded from that is going to be limited to what's inside So I also heard a lot of people So I put one in here. Should I put ten in here? You know, should I have an individual, Because it can get crazy. Great question. Yeah. No, it's a great question and then there's a practical answer, The main thing is that whatever is inside that LLC, the equity and the cash So if you decide to put ten properties just understand that if something the equity, So I'm not saying to have 9 or 10 in one, maybe 2 or 3 in one LLC obviously these things And at some point, just for setting up entities But, I would I would pay attention. As long as you understand that concept. I think once you understand then you can make whether you put 2 or 3 properties I'll tell you one quick story. Back in 0708, I had clients who had literally 30 They had negative equity. Well, not catering, but all 31 LLC, Right? So it's more about the equity in the homes that are inside the LLC and the cash Yeah. Anything else it owns. So one thing I will point out, though, having your car in an LLC This is why is because there's real. Remember, there's two parties So. So your buddy was driving, right? So there's two parties. Number one is the owner of the vehicle Right. So, Ken, if you lent him your car, But also the driver. Right. So even if you have the car under an LLC at the end of the day, You're going to be personally responsible for any consequences So the only time I even suggest is more to protect the vehicle. Like if I have a really like a super car, or something like that, and there might be interested Having the car protected by an entity perspective, it's Right, right. If you own a business Different ish. Right? Correct. Yeah. It's more about protecting protecting, you know, having having Let's say you don't have any assets and then there's a judgment, right? And you don't have anything. I think a lot of people think, So not a big deal. Right. But you corrected me. Yeah. It's one of the biggest mistakes When it, whenever I hear somebody say, I always respond with, you have a job, And if not today, maybe you're unemployed, but if you're not today, And these judgments, So if I get a judgment for you, are going to be fair game. So you may have nothing today, that makes a lot of money, you can go after that as well, for another ten years So just because you don't have any assets unless you're homeless your future earning power and your current that you want to be aware of. And I think it's important to understand that we create an a new entity and we roll it Right? From the beginning. Yeah. One of the biggest mistakes They get all excited, they go out and file And guess what? They forget to transfer title from their And that has to happen. It's an actual transfer to a title that's recorded so that the new legal owner is not you, So if you like this and you'll love this, Yeah, yeah, I appreciate it. This is something that your request But yeah, we talk a lot about asset price, It's legal strategies for everyone. But we talk about these strategies I've got a lot of diagrams And I actually talked about six We talked about probably the first three, but there are other layers because it's different layers If you're just starting out and you're buying your first rental, that's going to look a lot different millionaire you have about you've been doing real estate and you have multiple assets that's going to look and your estate So six layers of asset protection. We talk about those here in the book. I've been in business for over 35 years, the most comprehensive video on the most critical lessons I highly recommend