There are few living people who have had stands today. American presidents since the 1960s, Chairman Mao, Golda Meir and Vladimir in ways that are still admired, young man at Harvard. every person, there comes a point when seemingly limitless possibilities of his actuality. indeed followed a regular path. birthday, you might imagine Henry In fact, he is plainly still involved in around the world. Cairo. three geographic parts Europe, where he The United States, where he found power An Asia which he transformed. epilogue to do with that legacy. Henry Kissinger was born in 1923 in the Two years later, Adolf Hitler came to citizens. his first 15 years of persecution and to America in 1938 has shaped his world In my youth, within a disintegrating The German society. Collapsing into the Hitler period. period. And then when Hitler finally came to and all the people I knew well, became Living in a town in which there was are not welcome here and at the entrance When you ended it by trade, no car So that was why you'd think that your needed some degree of order. to tidy or for a. Stability. For creativity, then, too. but stability meant a great deal. was in the war, you came back as a You've fought in the Battle of the You saw the concentration camps. You took part in this of the rounding up That is a hinterland have. with, de Gaulle, Mao, all those people Well, I came back to Germany In the 80 4th Infantry Division of the Army. so I saw war circumstances fellow soldiers. Of survival And I was lucky that my fellow soldiers Live from Wisconsin. after Lincoln. To then edge the battle near the German of the Bulge. Which was still at the front, but not In the civilian population, but to I saw Of authoritarianism And of war Until. It's so elemental because you chose both the But also the sense of unity of of of a Then when they believe in fundamentals. that the. Better than. soldiers that because they were If better tent could be built, we'd be I your life you were dealing with world experiences. the lot. that state was the first President Bush. Western world now, they're all people. who've never seen those things. makes a difference to world politics. leaders? Leaders who have not had an experience catastrophe. options than they really do. that is characteristic of vote, exception possibly is Xi Jinping because didn't he? the terror that you would have seen. Crucial experience. After his father, a Red Army leader, was And in these conversations before he he would refer to the fact that this As you said, you grew up in this period You are seen to be somebody who wants Does not want Russia if it loses the war Is that is that in part because you saw The Germany before the First World War successful country. these things. follows. I worry about the fact An integral part of. 600 years. infinitely larger than any European And it has always been part of Asia, the aspect of Russia in comparison countries. history between. Become fully European and a fear of superiority or capacity. The world will become more stable. That it could not conquer Europe. some sort of consensus as other states do. But I don't want Russia so crushed. international politics And becomes a subject for European So. For Ukraine to be preserved. As a autonomous, strong We have substantially achieved this But now. in terms of the borders of Ukraine. concluding phases of the war. because the dissolution of Russia resentful impotence Of tensions, do you think Vladimir Putin parameter? realize is where its borders are. Vladimir Putin, that he is on one level the inherited of and therefore has the tendencies towards [inaudible] that I have described earlier. a right to be important. in which a over half of the population and under under constant threat. wanting European military power to In easy reach of St Petersburg and cities like Moscow. of the war, which was in the centre of Europe, and maybe 50 miles of St. Petersburg And as it turned out, at the age of Vladimir Putin was more Dostoevsky than Do you still think of him in that way? a Dostoevsky-type figure set by but not but very capable of using excessively in relationship I to recall that recognizes but to Europe Agreement. And I believe that this war will. They may be achievable if it's ended on Do you think Vladimir Putin can survive It's improbable. On the other side of the fence, the moment we have the Ukrainian counter-offensive seems to Do you see that as the last offensive You have to move to. I began to urge moving to urge diplomacy urged that the themselves, how they want to end it. burden, but that they would know what I think that becomes increasingly as time goes on. where the war becomes its own objective relations between powers thinking. Countries like China view, that would spread into a world conflict. real danger that the Donbas doesn't becomes sort of Europe's frontier with the arms of China? because Russia gets driven back or and this integrates as a functioning major autonomous Thought. that we were correct in resisting the We talked about China and Russia. powerfully from this particular episode Germany is probably the country that is If that happens, it may be involved in and within Europe. Spain, if you visit Italy, you can feel to the east. Berlin, so to speak. involved in supplying more arms and It looks set to become a bigger power in Do you agree with that? Germany is ready for that task? that the of of the center of gravity in is been inherent and was one of the causes of. Of the refusal of other countries to This reality, Because of the inability of Germany to the information of its own position Because the leading country. Moderation and and wisdom In balancing the interests of all the if they are to be participants in the and historically, domination After the retirement of Bismarck. Which directed India to trading with Europe in the world. So, now, And Of either the Nazi period So they have to construct the system And they're new, they're in office only a year or so. And this is not a reflection but a description of a new challenge for That hasn't existed that form before. for the other great powers? about containing, you know, first Germany, and now that now there is an If you if you are France... Well, Germany was in conflict with France since the because French policy was explicitly On maintaining the balance of power meant maintaining a division of Germany competing states. Partly, two mistakes that Germany made And Britain came to look at Germany as a So. neither the British. Nor the French leader were of Germany. that the British Prime Minister unified. be unified in 1871, This will have a greater impact than the So we are at this moment, now when a new structure of Europe has to be based on this. And I'm describing the challenge here, I'm not saying that the Germans have It's new and it's a new challenge for this generation. It's also a challenge for France and Britain. different paths, especially since sewers often in opposition to America. Union. stick with the Americans. Union. things right over the past 50 years. And I wonder, you look at France and you Who is better placed to go forward? France inside it. Britain is better placed because it That one can imagine appearing. cooperation with America America will have to be an essential Opposing all the other major power Europe is in a difficult position to do May be impossible, Better placed Britain's problem is its connection, how not how to connect with the United It the history of special partnership. the danger comes from across the oceans come from across the border. danger comes from land invasions. So for Britain to link to Europe. has organically. so And I think that you watch. might disagree with you on this, but you psychologically happier outside the Yes, I. I think it's all too. To act as a link America. unless it meant something beyond itself. his adopted homeland in 1973. 1938 as a 15 year old refugee. conversation about the United States by American. anywhere else? Uniquely American. At a dinner in Germany. Of the democratic Germany, would Britain amazingly adds to Tatler. Germany period He said. junior professor in Munich University. That brings us very nicely to the next You go to Harvard. You taught about chemistry and being an But one of your mentors, Fritz Kramer, Were you a musically tuned to history? great figure of your youth. directs you towards the philosophy of Robin, just history itself. the Spinoza. You've always been obsessed not just by Later on in life And those of Harvard. parallel, But in a funny way was a second Food from Germany in the second from the Harvard played a very important role Confident. do the direction. I was doing extremely well in chemistry, And I went to see the head of the Its name was Professor. well-known figure and I asked him whether i should have to ask me, And so I was on the the confidence to do it, I philosophy. Theory of knowledge and theory of to combine the of philosophy entities have ever been formed by any actually happened. in development. I became very theme, and i think if one read my books. Where in your life is that the idea, the the ideas be most challenged by reality. because you get reality conflicting with between managing the present So the. magnified into society's lives. the ambiguity. Emphasis on the presence leads to And that therefore, every thing else and so, how to strike that balance are too absolute, Because they demand a degree of imposition on others. It may be it may be given to us, it's to keep Appropriate level. also the story of of American foreign You have this you've always argued that wants to give optimists. we haven't been as close to be satisfied with the way we are. oceans, because whenever a society in else be neighbors intruded on them. America because of these oceans. But after World War Two and now and with So global system. It goes beyond international. and we have simultaneously to adjust to with countries that have the same And with other countries that grow up to achievement you've always said America should complex with reality. You look at the last Cold War and of liberty of those ideals, but also by people, the Marshall Plan and things If you go to America's allies, they will ideals any longer. And in terms of trade deals and things not even doing trade deals with its So America, in a strange way, is more it has been. more disconnected. more connected feed in what it except that during the Marshall Plan at new. And it was therefore that it became very policy makers, now policy makers And at that time, we had over 50 percent of the world gross national product. which is still a huge percentage. percentage discriminating. The problem that bothers me. that they're entrenching. we have not yet found That unified Americans realisation that we need a new has shrunk to a that existed at the end of World War 2. Practical when you came to power, been able to to lecture the world. difficulties then, you know, it was You had all these things going wrong. scramble. You had to try and make things work. from the seemed very strong. make allies, having to find balances. Now living in them Unprecedented. The need for those. supposed to do and given to set do in given circumstances, and how the alliances are supposed to operate, but that not every issue has a interest for every country, so that interest in global stability, but they immediate situation. I was given the opportunity to essentially the 70s and early 80s. beginning and they were in their infancy dispute. was that he was willing to face these But now they're upon us. That is an evolution of the problem. Do you think now America is a worse ally? I go to Jakarta, they will say all we first and we hear we don't want to trade We don't want to do things with you. reaching out. Biden is a little bit more polite than I would say ... but no more helpful. The debate within America has shifted to the extreames, Republicans and Democrat of their participation in which they both shared. In the present period, in which An extreme theory of America first, but in such a way that it that it and not on global interests. But anyone who wants to conduct a few the two. Do you think the current administration I think the current administration. that, doesn't do itself justice. Nowadays, there are no Rockefeller extreme as Republicans on the other. fact it's disappeared. foreign policy? I think that center still exists. have an articulate it originated. independent party in America? not had a good faith. It is important. An argument for the philosophy that I the latter because I've maintained it It reflects the necessity of a period if you consider that intelligence Of a colossal transformation Which will have to be built into But we have a paradox then when you have intelligence, you have climate change, interconnectedness is incredibly But America doesn't seem to follow it. But the essence of what is that we have opened the door that did when when the printing press It transformed the human and set off of what we call now the years. these machines. We as a question of these machines. Capable have taught them, but that we cannot brain or one machine. Give us an answer and we act on the basis That is a new reality that that will be Like the old new reality words, when information illegally at the printing states or nation states were coming to You had an immediate need to interact It was part of what appeared. in America, which doesn't I think that America will be driven by and do studying what I have and so will that an American thing So therefore it will be a dialogue Therefore, the dialogue between America even more crucial. The way we interpret reality because to we have found the key. which we didn't know existed. huge complexity of what you've Do you think that a presidential Trump offers somebody who is capable of It could be very difficult. is. We have. We have to overcome them. centred on Asia, perhaps the place where impact. represented by China, which Kissinger West. the area of his life his critics focus I put it to Kissinger that although Vietnam in 1968, by 1975, North Vietnam Cambodia, which America bombed was a I asked him whether, from the there was anything he would have done I believe. We inherited a war in which five hundred were in place and fifty thousand more. were underway In America, public opinion had turned Against the war and in violent In the street among the international Everybody was against the war. for America's defending them. Depended as it does today. task we had assigned ourselves, we Comparable problems today. Ukraine. under conditions. the control over their own fell more and more into the hands We gradually withdrew our troops. conducted enough military operations so adversary, now quasi-ally, but then-adversary did not become convinced that he could take over. an Afghanistan style which was for We had five hundred and fifty thousand armed Vietnamese in place so it was at every stage conducted. What's a better way at any one point? I still don't think so. I'm open to that argument. We reduce American casualties of the war, they were in the thousands They were reduced to. in the last year of the war. within two years. The irreducible demand we had was. Democratic government. That was not granted until the last they were the last three months of the At that point settled. maintain this settlement? we believed that we could maintain their Against all but an all out invasion from At which point the alliance issued would But we believed against foreseeable We could maintain the autonomy. And we could maintain it against even But then Watergate occurred within two Of the settlement opinion, forbid any kind of military At that point had become. It was painful. life Security advisor's office And I published in my memoirs, to show how painful he found it to agree. I think it's time we gained. we had already opened to China. either way. of the Cold War. Created a structure from which Or at least given the. During the debate said the pressures, used to indicate different views. and I'm sure that any later. books I read, not the subject that I this was what we thought and that is end, the end and the end justified all No. The end we were aiming for was an meant a peace in which we did not turn the domination of those whom they had Relying on our promises. We that we had achieved that. his proposal, the North Vietnamese the crucial point was in when the North Vietnamese negotiated, to us and said this is essentially what in January. I asked for a recess was a man called Winston Lord, who and he had thought over resigning at the fought in Cambodia. choices. a placard And so at that moment, I turned to Winston turned to him and I Turned out to be a sad statement, because we domestic support that was needed. But the effort. and if we had gone to either of the was. Upon coming into office before the China. to extricate hundreds of thousands of while the enemy would still around them Local people might have turned Words, what's not acceptable. have been that would see reality And so President Nixon came to believe. I saw it already at that time. military solution it at the time, we had had and already violent demonstrations. practical. Good that it will be debated. being in part a reason why staying there From that point of view, you went there. Important for us to show. Ended office convinced that a country of And the history of China international system international system, that it would find And so. To. At that moment, China had withdrawn all the world to And Poland was maintained as a contact point. And negotiations began on a regular that is between the ambassadors that meetings between 1954 and nineteen None lasted more than a day, with the the immediate return of Taiwan to China. A firm commitment Neither demand was accepted and so we began from that basis to establish contact. And finally found a way when President that we wanted contact. we wanted a real dialogue. We emphasized it By sending an ambassador in approach the Chinese ambassador at any were invited. fashion show. Yugoslavia. And it was at that moment we. drove up to our office, to our embassy. negotiations. Things were conducted at the time. But from there. on the specific problem of its enabling in a Which gave Russia something additional think led to the easing of the Cold War. agreement. think the first time you said we were in we went up to the mountain passes. looking over. between America and China seems to be Is that is that true today? One of the big problems is both sides it is falling and so to take the tension out of the But there is an inherent difficulty. great country for much of its history China was much weaker. its capacity was to stir up difficulty. diplomatic and potential commercial influence. Which was inherent in opening the relationship, it Gained the capacity. nature of modern technology From the beginning raised the issue. weapons. We were able to inflict the amount of of warfare so that therefore their threats grew. to begin with. thought very important. China grew stronger. more complicated, as we've discussed And as the chinese The tension became And on the American side. a subject which it had not been of So that candidate now influenced can accuse them. No. So that it's the however. Unique situation in the sense. It's the other that is the biggest It's America in their present. That the biggest threat. Either unwinnable. Or winnable only at costs that are out And so I would support And I've been urging them. One interesting thing you said you. politics has changed because successive China. for over 10 years. in China, is that his fault? has he gone in the wrong direction? The so-called wolf diplomacy in which Chinese diplomats were urged in effect to throw around so in relations with, say, Australia. which of a dramatic reduction of Chinese trade statements that made.. So it's a problem a What we discussed before about Germany That Germany suddenly became a great power, Bismarck, it's first (inaudible) in a way that translated into a You describe Deng Xiaoping, for Do you think of Xi Jinping as a great Well, Deng Xiaoping Xi After a cultural revolution which wiped experienced leaders. I don't describe it now as a great man, I think he's pursuing goals which And the American president, if they A real balancing of relationship between the two countries. What chances do you see of of of an 3, 4 years? Well, on the current trajectory of relations, I think Is probable. of relations must be altered And for the weeks preceding our There have been signs. Of trying to end them. In this sort of dialogue that I suggested, that they're moving towards it. relation to the outcome. that China has got more involved in You know, you've seen China talking to You saw China brokering a kind of truce Well, it should be an inevitable part of the into each other. and determine. core interests clash? which their core interests clash without of clashing core interests. At the moment a non-aligned country. Would it put the younger Kissinger now trying to bring India, which will be the I have not dealt with India For. dealt with China India, then non-alignment was a sort of the form of lecturing on the virtues of That choice was open to them, but not to When you are in a Cold War, you can't retreat from it, and you say you're not going to choose non alignment. with India since, I think their current is extraordinarily thoughtful and I have great respect for their foreign who is a very... I would say brilliant executor of that policy. India is a great power. very comparably to China. But it doesn't matter at that point. It will be of sufficient strength to assert itself it performs best when it defends it's own interests which overlap many of ours. Our interests as a great power are To prevent any country of dominating regions and to lose influence to achieve the final part of our conversation Henry Kissinger has remained a pretty In an age where leaders like to play on shall shortly see, tended to suppress him sympathy. I've known him has been football. had Leicester City, my football team, League? relegated from the Bundesliga last year. Indeed, he and his brother were beaten game. The first has yet to win the Bundesliga. that to happen? give a definition of infinity. and nothing quite a sort of powerful. It was a private essay you wrote when you age, I think just 22 and especially and you say Folek Sama, your foot has Your face is 40. Yet all your certificate reads is 16. and make a speech to you and your Folek Sama, I, Joe Smith, human dignity. You should be preserved in cement up generations to look upon and take stock. stopped at this barbed wire. conception in the world. Nothing done for you will ever restore You are eternal in this respect. But if something you chose to keep you think as a different way of people It was a feeling that concentration Evoked in me. Within a week. Seen the low level of dehumanization. People too weak to that. And we killed some people by mistake food. no intention of publishing it It can affect your own actions. not among papers I gave. An underlying reality. Have to recognize it's working And that we'd need to contain and prevent from breaking, and to use to prevent the barbaric side from breaking out. the hundred year point of view, do you trying to do that? But I don't advertise it. on that thing. You're talking about writing two more But how if not for that? Out of my control. The best I could. It's good. talking to Bloomberg. Happy birthday.