The city of Atlanta is heating Goodbye, Silicon Valley and The fintech and payments explode. The other piece is As newcomers flood into north live near this. The BeltLine is one of the projects underway in the Housing prices along the upward in recent years, most west, and southwest sides. What we've seen is roughly an that has followed the So you're talking about 11 to I saw the value of a loop that communities. Little did I know plans. This is a story of what could call to other cities to not mistakes. What role did this path play in is the city making more space workers? Atlanta is a leading what scholars call the New There is roughly 500,000 Atlanta. It's a really rich innovation and research here. The whole region benefits from Growth in the Metro has really From 2000 to 2020, we've gone about 6 million. It's spread out over 29 That has taxed the region kind don't have a mass transit metropolitan area. We're starting to see more of this city. Not everyone can proper limits. I think there are a confluence growth. You know, it being in through hip hop or in popular many people to this city. With this groundwork in place, labor force of around 3.2 Huge names like UPS, Coca and Delta Airlines have So Atlanta is just winning corporations that that are Experts believe that Metro continue to climb. If you believe the reports, we is going to add almost another And we believe that the from a density perspective in population. The BeltLine is a massive people on wheels. We are essentially repurposing create this 22 mile loop Atlanta. So basically it'll connect all haven't really been connected We use it in a practical We use it to jog and to come It was the idea of a graduate Ryan Gravel. There are miles that are complete. There are constructed across the What we have seen is alongside the BeltLine, but along with it. It's an are just finishing the funding which means now it can be The BeltLine is a In this arrangement, the benefits to businesses that What we're trying to do is communities. And so this means job, housing, a grocery store, facilities, all in specific don't have to get in a car. The group behind the BeltLine the MARTA system and also its path. The project is 2030. Huge swaths of the construction, but the project the city. I think it was a great idea in neighborhoods. I saw the value of a loop that communities and really create Little did I know that other Just as the BeltLine was being in 2003 and 2004, single going up a lot right near the A lot of money was made just homes. And as a result, there has been gentrification. We roughly have put about $700 date. What we've seen is investment that has followed So you're talking about 11 to And so that has caused a a number of pressures within Here's one example. We're investing in Atlanta. We're growing in Georgia. Microsoft is building a 90-acre Atlanta. It's actually going to be very very close to the west side We secured a 31-acre site, from where the new Microsoft That land will be in public And then we can curate sense for that legacy You know, when you, for Microsoft, for example, that jobs that pay over six median income for a Black over $22,000 a year. Then there's a huge disconnect be able to compete for these Nathaniel Smith was initially a the BeltLine, but he parted I felt that the BeltLine was And both Ryan and I, we both a letter that really spoke to The BeltLine has delivered on together. The path typically year. And the project has also had an That's partly because land is Atlanta. It became a public-private real make money and to speculate transit and to provide public Home values in southwest 300% from 2013 to 2021, The southwest Atlanta story is A Black neighborhood, low disinvested, redlined. People had lived through that. Their kids had lived through And then here comes the But they're not able to lost their homes in big shift in wealth away from families of color to private investors. So I think that was As the city got more expensive other families like me tended city where the prices were a time. They're not that Since then, groups like the the goal of stabilizing community. So today we are, to some And it would have been great secure more land earlier in because property values proximity to the project. In the land trust model, structure and sign a lease for As the value of the land profits to support low income I was actually the first with the Atlanta Land Trust, able to afford a home. It really reduced the price of Makeisha Robey, a former has provided the stability to entrepreneur. Atlanta, like encourage land developers to with limited success. Locals say more can be done. For example, the city could mandatory. It could also tax pay for better city services. We don't have the perfect number of institutions here including the BeltLine. Atlanta feels this sure that we retain this If we wash that out, you know, The leaders of Metro Atlanta people in the coming years. If we are intentional about how where the infrastructure for us to provide better citizens, particularly as it transportation. Atlanta has some of the worst A regional transit system communities to opportunities The challenge is that the pushed back against MARTA. If you walk around the city, the city is horrendous. It's one of the worst cities These are all things that values should have benefited And yet, the city is in a state of austerity, not The schools are constantly in It doesn't make sense. This perpetual lack of racial gaps in Atlanta, assets. We cannot address issues of immobility if we do not focus Think about the top cities these challenges: Atlanta, New We see that they're southeast. Despite these concerns, which country, Atlanta is moving We certainly are experiencing that are here, but we have so that out. One of the things that we have marketplace. If you are a convert just a small traffic, you're going to do There are some areas of the looked at for a while, so it's built, like green spaces being And really that is really