Hello, friends! In this video I want to draw your attention to the mistakes that many people make when washing clothes in a washing machine. If you have noticed that your clothes are not washing well, you did not know how much to load the washing machine and where to put the powder, then watch this video. 1. How many clothes should you put in your washing machine? The instruction for the washing machine for each program contains recommendations for the maximum load of laundry. For example, on my Cotton, Daily Wash and Baby Wash programs the maximum load is 6 kg. Mixed fabrics - 3 kg. Dark fabrics and Synthetics - 2.5 kg. Woolen things 1.5 kg. Hand wash - 1 kg. You should not load the drum of the washing machine to the very top and not until everything is tightly compacted there. You need to put in enough clothes so that there is a palm-sized distance to the top of the drum. This way, the clothes will feel free in the drum, will be properly soaked with water and detergent, and will be washed and rinsed better. 2. Where to put washing powder in the washing machine? The first section of the tray is for pre-wash. If you did not turn it on, the section should be left empty. The second one is for the main wash. And it is the one that is used most often. You need to pour powder or gel here. There may be a special tray for the gel to prevent it from draining into the washing machine prematurely. The section with the flower is for fabric softener, which the machine uses during the final rinse. The amount of washing powder and gel to use for washing is shown on the back of the package. If you wash few clothes, use less. You can also add washing powder or gel directly into the drum. Do not pour the gel directly onto the clothes, place it in the drum in the lid. Why do many people do this? Because if you pour powder or gel into the powder compartment, some of the detergent may remain in the corrugated tube. It is almost impossible to clean it well at home. As a result, mold will begin to develop in it, which can lead to the appearance of an unpleasant odor. Please like the video And subscribe to the channel! At the beginning of the wash, the washing machine took some water into the first compartment. And then turned on the drain pump and pumped out some of the water. If you use liquid washing gel, it may have drained into the corrugated tube and into the drum (while you were loading clothes and selecting the desired washing program). Accordingly, after filling and draining the water, some of the gel went into the sewer. And now the clothes will be washed with less detergent, which may affect the washing result. What is the solution in this situation? You can pour the washing powder into the powder compartment, or put the washing powder and gel directly into the drum. 3. Pre-wash. The pre-wash compartment in the washing machine tray is marked with a number 1. You can add washing powder or gel to it. For the main wash, the compartment is marked with the number 2, if you do not have such a tray for liquid products, then use only washing powder. If you have a tray, then you can use gel. If you pour the gel without a tray, it will simply flow into the washing machine during the pre-wash stage, and the main wash will be done without detergent. Pre-wash is not available in all modes. If you select a mode in which it is not provided, then when it is activated, the indicator flashes 3 times. If you select a mode with pre-wash and activate it, the indicator does not blink and the washing time increases. Look what the washing machine does. It doesn't pump out the water, but pours it straight into the first compartment. That is, it takes the washing powder. The gel is not washed off; the machine will take it away when the main wash begins. If you usually add detergent directly to the drum, you don't need to do this with the pre-wash. All the detergent will be used up during the pre-wash and nothing will be left for the main wash. As a result, the clothes will be washed worse. If you only wash with gel, then as an option, you can add the gel directly to the drum or pour it into the first compartment. It is used for pre-wash. In the second compartment, if there is no bath, the gel should be added only when the machine starts to fill with water for the main wash. These are the questions I wanted to answer today, because many people make mistakes at these stages of washing. I hope you liked these tips. Thanks everyone for watching. See you in other videos.