The Zhutang family is powerful Today, we must let the Tang family choose to save the Xia family Don't worry, our pearl is the daughter of the Xia family. Tang Yu and I are a natural match Keep your voice down. We'll talk about that after today You go down first OK where kid Are you all right? pain Be good and don't cry come Auntie treats you to candy Thanks. Xia Yibo, what are you doing? Take this little bastard away Don't get in the way of your sister's good deeds Mr. Tang haha Come come this way please Mr. Zuo, are you alright? It's okay, Auntie, just poke it. You like him? Yeah, I do. That's him! maybe He is the bandit who investigated the truth about the car accident 6 years ago Just him for three days I will enslave this woman What! You bitch What means did you use? Mr. Tang actually took a fancy to you Dad, I haven't graduated from college yet You will marry me to someone A man who has only met once This is ridiculous. I'm not marrying Humph If you don't marry, why did you steal my pearl marriage? I shouldn't have left you as an illegitimate daughter in the first place You have to marry if you don't marry Without the 50 million betrothal gift of the Tang family Go bankrupt next time Betrothal gift This is clearly selling money You should be grateful that the Tang family can bid you 50 million Otherwise you can only marry Mr. Huang, who just died with his fifth wife OK I will marry marry Tang Yu It may be my only chance to break free from their control Tang Yu actually has an illegitimate child Marriage is to find a stepmother for children Humph coax children Then I'm pretty good at it Dad? Do you really want that bitch to marry Tang Yu? Tang Yu is mine It's all delivered to the door You don't take chances Go find Tang Yu yourself What about mom? Who would have expected that this Tang Yu would suddenly have a son? Don't worry, mom is here. Never let that bitch Take what belongs to you Mom What are you going to do? Styling took 3 hours Miss Xia must be tired Have a drink of water Thanks. Tang Yue Your grandfather's will is for you to get married by the age of 32 It's not for you to find an illegitimate daughter and perfunctory Just acknowledge him in a hurry I approve of him You care so much Has Cong Cong not put down Li Wan yet? Blame this fox Engaged to you While hooking up with Tang Yi Give birth to Cong Cong The baby is just over the moon They eloped I knew there would be a car accident. I shouldn't have objected Mom, forget about the past Cong Cong is both my nephew He will always be my son Groom please take your bride Groom please take your bride What kind of bride is he? This is hey This is not a bride Who is this? You are not a foster mother Who are you? I'm Yin Mo's sister Yin Mo ran away from marriage That's why I got married runaway marriage Mr. Xia is running away from marriage I never want to kill Mr. Tang, I really don't know Now that the wedding has begun Then let the pearl be on top That's enough! Since the bride fled the marriage Wedding cancelled I didn't run away I didn't run away Wedding global staring Why worry? This summer, Yimo What are you doing here? Or else? You thought you could trap me with just your little tricks Ah! Open the door Anybody? Open the door Get off now Otherwise I don't mind going public about you The wedding continues Wait, I just said the wedding is off Mr. Tang, I need this marriage to get away from home You need this marriage to inherit the Tang family Isn't it good for us to cooperate and win together? Mr. Tang I believe you will make the right choice. Win-win cooperation is interesting Ha ha. Ah! Xia Yumo Don't regret your choice today No regrets Xia Yumo Xia Yumo Call Wasn't it quite rude just now? Now I know I'm afraid What am I afraid of? I am your wife now You can still eat me wife 50 million pieces. I'm not after your money. What am I trying to do? Of course, it's for your power. Can help me get rid of Xia Dongyang found his brother I want to ask you for a little more money. After all, you even gave 50 million, didn't you? Just like his dad Picture my money What? Shared workers? I'm afraid it's all excuses offer How much? The tuition fee for the next semester is 8,000. You are humiliating me How is that possible? As long as you are willing to pay for my tuition I'll be at your service. I swear to be a good wife Ok what you said Then you write all of this So much. Did you empty your house? I can't finish it all night I'm still a wounded soldier Either die or You? you Let me go back and marry a 50-year-old man I'm not doing it. Tang Yu Tang Yu It's raining! Open the door How can I wash it when it rains? Tang Yu open the door These hands are falling apart blood flow If I find my life I'll take him out of this hell Mr. Tang It's raining so hard Do you really not open the door? It's also a wedding night after all Is this a bit too much for a little girl? If you can find out about my grandfather's will, you can do it in advance Get ready lollipops Approaching quickly caught my attention Why do you call him a little girl? This is all planned by him Then how dare you marry her? It's not like you can't find someone to marry I think Wen Shuya is better than him Wen Shuya is just a secretary You don't think he looks like a struggling little guy. It's fun to toss But this hot water bag is so hard. hot water bag Xia Yumo, you really failed the test Why haven't the clothes been washed? Will it go down? Who said it wasn't finished? Here you go. Not only is it washed It dried. Washing machine Right. Where did you get the washing machine? It was borrowed by the neighbor Washing and drying machine Super convenient. Do you have it at home? Who allowed you to use the washing machine? You just said let me do the laundry. He didn't tell me to wash it by hand Oh, don't worry. Your close-fitting clothes are better than hand washing Dangdang Dangdang Tang Seng's aesthetics are really unique Donald Duck hahaha Xia Yumo counts you Go take care of Cong Cong If there is any dereliction of duty, go back home Old Man Already understand Wait until I take care of your son Conquer you Wow Little Angel Auntie will take you to wash your face and eat, okay? Hahaha Ah, stupid. You big fool hahaha It was you. slightly Come on. Dare to call me a bad woman Little bunny, stop for me Let go of me! Look at me! Let go of me! Let go of me and say you like me before Why are you calling me a bad woman now? Let go of me or I'll spank you! Hey, Mr. Fang, what are you doing? The meeting starts in 5 minutes After the meeting, you have to go on a business trip with Miss Wen Cancel it. But cancel Good woman, I'm looking for dad little girl Hard doesn't work Play? Dad? Good in a hurry Don't cry, tell auntie why Auntie will reward you with candy. Because you are about to give birth to a younger brother, grab it from me. Dad give me you Drive this bad woman away How could such a young child understand this? Someone must be sowing discord Who told you that? Aunt Wen said Who is Aunt Wen? Aunt Wen is Aunt Wen I want a lollipop. Tell me who Aunt Wen is first I just want to buy you a lollipop. Why did you come back from get off work so early? How dare you loose I didn't hit him He fell himself. And this carpet is so thick How could it be hurt? And so forth. You said I hit him Where did you see me hit him? You spy on me Otherwise how could I have seen you abuse my son abuse Then do you want to take off your son's pants? Take a look to see if there are any of my slap prints. See if I'm abusing you Don't spill my son Don't spill my son What are you crazy about? It hurts me. Don't play dead Hey up Hey! Hello woman Did you fight domestic violence? Squeak quickly Is it serious? Brother Tang Yu Do you know that I'm very busy? Millions per minute A small injury that can be solved with just a Band-Aid You specifically let me run Are you sure he's been out for a long time? Make sure it's not a concussion or something Brother, is he dizzy? Put it on your wife yourself You look like a teenager The old cow eats tender grass, hurry up and get out Okay. This woman is ambitious The face is quite small Is it as big as my palm? What are you doing? I said I didn't abuse him I don't know what to do, I I asked you. Really no chance Did you just think I was going to cover you to death? Or else? Isn't such a big hand just to cover me to death? Get up and pack up Accompany me to a cocktail party tonight I'm not going tonight What's the matter? I've been looking for car accident witnesses for 6 years Finally back home I have to see him tonight. But let's do it first Keep it a secret, I'm having a friend's party tonight. Young people's party Don't pull down And there's no age. Mr. Li Long time no see. It's not that Zhang Yushan is flying back to China tonight Will you attend this banquet? What! Did I play the wrong message? Come anytime Oops, Mr. Tang is newly married It's really full of spring breeze I presume this is Mrs. Tang I'm not that lucky. Just a clerk Thanks to Mr. Tang for not giving up Take me out to see the world Oh, dear. What Miss Wei said Who doesn't know that you are a wonderful person in show and wisdom? Look at this temperament Want me to say You and Mr. Tang are a match made in heaven Mr. Lin joked I'm getting more and more curious Who is this lady of Tang Zu? Ok you Tang Yu But he cheated Tang family young lady Certainly not all cats and dogs can do it At least be talented and good-looking You can't be a lowly waitress, can you? What do you think, waitress? What are you still doing? Come and pour a drink for Mr. Tang Mr. Tang is really lucky Have a sweet wife There is good help outside Then I wish Mr. Tang a happy wedding Ah! What are you doing? It's all over your clothes Fortunately, I got a room upstairs. Otherwise, you can go to the room with me to clean it. The rooms are all open How dare this woman's seduction methods be worse? I can't just carry the duck I just got Oh, no, don't be so troublesome. This black suit is invisible I'll just wipe it for Mr. Tang From the start, I think you just want to seduce Mr. Tang on purpose A fox like you I saw one. I cleaned one up. quit I will handle the change of the clothes I have prepared by myself. Hey, Mr. Tang, wait a minute, Mr. Tang Hard-prepared plan It was ruined by a small wealthy businessperson See how I treat you Ah! Excuse me. Excuse me. I'll wipe it for you. I'm not as good-natured as Mr. Tang What do you want? Lick me clean Pardon me? I don't mind your dirty tongue Lick me clean I think you are dirty. Hey You little girl He's got a temper. Relying on their own beauty Come up and seduce men, right? Which eye did you see me seducing men? Then why are you trapped in soot? let go Stealing I don't have it. Attention everyone There was a thief at the party Everyone should check their gold and silver jewelry Is there anything lost? I'll go up too, I'll take a look This is what my mom gave me back Stolen How cunning are you? I'd like to see how many gold and silver treasures you have hidden on you Security come here Hold him down. Relax You let go Crazy you let me go So many reporters on the scene Drag on Your reputation is ruined The woman who dares to snatch the ancestor from me I won't let any of them go. Hey! I stop Mr. Tang Let her go Mr. Tang, why are you back so soon? What are you doing? This girl is a thief I'm searching her The necklace is mine. I didn't steal anything. Sure, then you strip naked. Prove your innocence? Mr. Tang Even a Xia Yimo is enough Now you have to protect even a waiter What am I to you? Secretary Your last name is Wen So what? Then this glass of wine is not wronged? You bitch How dare you throw me, you are courting death Bitch, I'll fight you Mr. Tang Who the hell is he? Why are you protecting him? You don't need this. Come with me to change clothes It's not embarrassing to leave Not my feet My feet are not healed yet Twist again Can't walk anymore Hey, Tang Yu Check with me now Who the hell is that bitch? What are you trying to do at the party dressed like this? tell the truth Find someone Who to look for You have something bigger than the earth Zhang Yushan died abroad last night You're here to enchant him If you want to follow me, just say it Zhang Yushan passed away The only eyewitness also died Is there really nothing I can do? Did you avenge my mother? Why are you crying? I'm not saying I won't let you follow Next time you want to go to a party, just let me know in advance I'm not crying Don't blame me for not warning you That news He's not right You're hitting people in public He was the one who bothered me first And destroyed the only thing my mother left me only Didn't your mother do a big business before her death? They leave you a legacy. Naturally, it is all occupied by the next family Only left him with infamy You are often bullied in the Xia family How can you pity me? No. You go out first I'm going to change clothes. I'm afraid I don't think I'm interested in the little one I'm just a little younger But I will grow up grow up Just like that. Where are you looking? You rascal you go out Go out go out Tangyuan Tangyuan Tangyuan So stupid Don't chop it up and break a necklace. Pay you now Although it is not as important as what your mother gave you Really gave it to me Such a big diamond Is it true? That's a lot of money, right? If it is sold, I will contact the second-hand store now. Xia Yumo, you only have money in your eyes Money doesn't earn bastards Do you dare to sell one? Walk and eat Hey, Jiang, Tang Yu You sit here and wait for me Let me take this. OK Yo Who am I? Isn't this a wild sparrow flying up a branch? This fancy restaurant is also for people like you Hey, I really didn't read the almanac when I went out today. Stop the villain Is this necklace nice? At first glance, it is worth a lot. What are you doing? It seems that Tang Yue is not mean to you. I'm willing to give you such an expensive necklace. But you are an illegitimate daughter of a junior Do you match In the future, as long as you get good things from the Tang family Xidu Have to give it to me Or I'll tell Dad Let him use family law to serve you When did the things of my Tang family become your Xia family? Give it here. Mr. Tang I'm just kidding my sister. apologize Sorry I was wrong wait Did I say I forgive you? What else do you want? Drink it Ah! Xia Yimo, you are crazy Oh, I'm sorry. My hands have been slipping lately. Xia Yimo You wait for me. Xia Mingzhu And this is just the beginning. Even without witnesses I will also find out the truth Never let go of any murderer Pretty angry I've been wanting to splash him for a long time I just got my chance today Anyway, Thailand went back to sue me I see you are a dog with power That's better than being bullied And so forth. You call me a dog I am miserable, okay? It's miserable Medicine or eat first eat He turned out to be Xia Yinmo Humph Such an uncalming yellow-haired girl You are also worthy of robbing me of Tangyu Xia Yimo, this bitch, dare to splash me You are Xia Yimo's sister Who are you? It doesn't matter who I am What's important is that you want to know What has your sister been doing behind your back? What do you mean? This is Xia Yimo's investigation and tracking of Tang Yu She had already targeted Tang Yu's goal Hurry is just her springboard Used as a stepping stone by an illegitimate daughter What if I were you? Never give up This bitch Shimono is looking for Zhang Yushan Mr. Tang, there is a document that needs your signature Is it also to investigate the car accident 6 years ago? Mr. Tang, it's a pity that Zhang Yushan is dead Hello What's up Tang Yue, my father asked me to go home Looks fierce Can you come with me? Not available. Mr. Tang Mr. Xia asked his wife to go back It must be because the 50 million hasn't arrived yet Madam, I guess it will be difficult. Are you sure you don't want to go back? Xia Yimo It's a little wildcat. Who can make it difficult for him? To Wen Shuya Transferred to the marketing department OK I'll go. Dad, I'm back. How dare you call me dad Have you already investigated that Tang Yu has illegitimate children? Then I stepped on your sister and married into the Tang family Know so soon It seems that I still underestimate you Humph And so it did. I'll just say the 50 million has not arrived in the account It was you who got in the way You still care about 50 million The top priority is to send the pearl there Sell this bitch to Mr. Huang Yeah dad Let's go to Tang's house now Expose the true face of this bitch Take back my place Those jewels and jewelry were meant to belong to me Yeah, go ahead Tell Tang Yu the truth Then let the entire family go bankrupt directly Do you dare to go? Don't scare me here I'll tell you what. You must take the position of the young lady of the Tang family today Return it to me And so forth. Dad, you're a smart guy It's all your daughter Since I have married Tang Yu Then marry my sister to the royal family again Another 50 million Isn't it the same? bitch You stole the position of the pearl. Dare to calculate Marry Mingzhu to that old pervert surnamed Huang What a bitch As dirty and shameless as your bitch mother My mom is not a mistress She was deceived by you Squeezed all the money You have no right to say that about her Apologize to my mom You are afraid of depression I see It should be that bitch who crawled out of the grave Just apologize to me. apologize Ask me to apologize to a lowly bitch You are afraid of dreaming Either you get me back 50 million today Or return the identity of the young grandmother of the Tang family to Mingzhu Or I'll smash your mother's tombstone to pieces How dare you hit me? You scumbag Dare to hit me today I will kill you The old lady is dead bitch How dare you hit us? How dare you hit me? gentlemen Kill you Stop Stop You? Ah! How dare you hit the pearl? I'll kill you. Stop it I'll kill you. I stop Tang Yu Why are you here? You see, I said it. He is fierce Hit me and gang up to bully me I'm glad you made it. Don't worry. I will make them pay for bullying you Mr. Tang He did it first It's him who picks three When I have a meeting You call my wife home Fight like this He is now the young lady of the Tang family You are going to make enemies with my Tang family Absolutely not. Here's the thing. She is my daughter after all Call him over to discuss some family matters Isn't family business 50 million? You can ask for money. But my Tang family Shao Bendan was bullied here today It can't be like that. How do you want to solve it? He's calling the shots for me. Good opportunity to finally excrete evil My mother had a good business before she died He was in a car accident. He left a legacy. But it was all occupied by them to expand the company I put them back together. Spit out all my mother's inheritance You think beautifully That's what your mom owes me Could it be that Dad doesn't want to pay back the money? The market has been tense recently. Your mother lost all her money Can Tang always be accommodating? Do you think I believe it? You simply don't want to pay back the money. You can't come up with the money. Then take other assets to offset Right Take half of the shares of Xia Group to offset And this mansion was also bought by my mother's estate After chasing for so long, it should be How is that possible? Don't even think about it, Corporal Xia Yumo, I will fight with you I'll give you three days to raise it. Can't raise money Break the city directly Here we go. Xia Dongyang, what are you pulling me for? Are you so afraid of Tang Yu? Can you have some backbone? You hit my surname Xia How dare you hit me? It's easy to hit you. It's not that you're crazy. The Xia family will become like this Hurry up and go out and find the money for me If the Xia family goes bankrupt The next step is your fate Uh-huh. Ah! Pearl Pearl Somebody, call an ambulance, Mingzhu pain Thanks. Helped me out of trouble again today He also helped me get my mother's belongings back You're welcome. Even if you don't I rely on your ability. Getting your mother's inheritance is just around the corner The rumors are complete Don't laugh at me Are you often beaten? OK potluck I'm the punching bag for their family of three The worst hit And look at this arm. Seven stitches How can you pity me? You don't have to. The reason why I chose to stay there and be bullied by them That's because... I want to get some information from them I want to find my brother Your brother? He wasn't in an accident. Did you fall off a cliff with your mother? He's still alive. Jadi only found my mother's body But I didn't find my brother who was born I will never give up looking for him So you deliberately asked for your mother's inheritance If this Xia Dongyang knew about your brother Will take the initiative to negotiate with you OK You asked about Zhang Yushan at the banquet before Also to investigate a car accident You know it all I can guess your little thought I didn't expect him to share my goals If his brother is still alive As a person involved in a car accident, you must know the truth You can send me a copy of your brother's information. I'll help you find it. Mr. Tang, are you really willing to help me find my brother? Thank you Tang Yu Ah! If you are bullied in the future Fight back I will be your backer I really have Mr. Tang as my backer Then I must not walk sideways in the future. Why are you starting to be arrogant again? How do you speak? Since you are willing to be my husband's backer Then I will definitely Be a qualified wife Take the cub for you Cong Cong will be handed over to me in the future All right. I happen to be on a business trip tonight Auntie at home is on vacation Can you handle it by yourself? Must be done Help each other Win-win cooperation This is our wedding declaration cooperation OK I just said so much Is cooperation Pretty much. Let's go I can't wait to help you pack now Fulfilling my obligations as a wife No need, just take good care of Cong Cong Remember not to feed him He is allergic to strawberries I know that. What is fierce Heartless little thing Drive to my mother's place to pick up Congcong and go home Ice cream! I want ice cream! Snacks go Today, my aunt will take you to eat as much as you like Have fun. Ask for an ice cream Cherry flavored Ok, wait a minute. Wow balloon Hey you little naughty bag stop Change that woman's ice cream to strawberry flavored Is this money yours? It's ok. Thank you. Come on little guy Don't run around Do you hear me? Or I'll take you home right away Got it. Here you go. Here you go. Cong Cong Cong Cong Cong Cong Cong What's wrong with you Cong Cong strawberry flavor How could it be strawberry flavor? Congcong, hold on I'll take you to the hospital. Doctor doctor Come and help me take a look. My child is allergic Severe allergy Surgery is required immediately Surgery is an allergy Why surgery? Are you a doctor or something? I'm a doctor. If you delay any longer, the child will go into shock in a while Come on. Wait a minute, I'll call the baby's father. Wait a minute, it's too late. Give it to me now Hey Let go! Let go! Ah! Ah! Open the door. Open the door. Give me back the baby. Open the door Hello How are things going? Don't worry, Miss Wei Everything is arranged Tonight that child will surely die There you go. The money will be sent to you immediately. Xia Yu, since the Xia family You can't help it. Then let me clean up you After tonight The young lady of the Tang family should be replaced Surprise What are you doing? I know you deliberately transferred me to the marketing department on a business trip Without me They are all made for Xia Yumo to see. Mr. Tang, I don't mind being your undercover affair Don't bother I'm already married. I see. You got married just to find a wife to help you inherit the Down family So can I. We work so well together How can I compare to Xia Yimo's illegitimate daughter? Wen Shuya, you don't deserve to be compared to her Make this mistake again Resign immediately I can't believe you don't feel anything for me let go I don't want to see you again when I come out Tang Yu rushed into the hospital with allergies The doctor took him away Said to have surgery Tang Yu, can you hear me? Tang Yu is taking a shower I don't have time to talk to you Hui Shuya Tang Yu is sensible with you Don't bother me anymore I worked hard for his son He's picking up girls asshole Open the door. Open the door. He's making trouble Drag him out for me I see which of you dares to indiscriminate Take the child for surgery Are you a hospital or a gangster? Don't open the door again I'll call the police right away What are you still doing? Tow away let go Let go of me! Let go! Let go of me! Stop let go Xia Yimo What are you doing here? I know you. You are Tang Yu's friend. Right? Please help me Cong Cong is allergic They said they needed surgery. What surgery do you do for allergies? I knew they had a problem. Go and break down the door Open the door Otherwise, get out of the hospital immediately Stop hand Stop Immediately arrest people from the hospital for me Cong Cong Cong Cong Wake up Cong Cong Show me the child No big deal. Just a normal allergy I'll just prescribe some medicine and take it. The gangster obviously came in a hurry Damn Scared me to death If Cong Cong is there What do I have in my hand? Three long and two short Then Tang Yu must be buried with me, hahaha. Don't cry Isn't it okay? This damn Tang Yu will make trouble for me Why are you still here? i Hey, what's up? It's your wife Child, where did you die? Your son was almost torn apart Do you know What? I'll be right back Does something always happen to the soup? scram Look at Tang Yu's anxious look Must have succeeded How can there be no audience for such a wonderful show? Hello Mrs. Tang Xia Yimo bribed the doctor to kill Cong Cong Hurry up and go to the hospital! The rash is gone. I'll be out of the hospital tomorrow morning Thank you, Dr. Han Yeah. Love? Find Dr. Tao How about Cong Cong? Don't worry, Cong Cong is fine. Too bad the gangster got away Dare to hurt my son Dig three feet into the ground and I will dig him out too It's really thanks to your wife this time He's literally protecting the onion with his life Use your body to block the knife Is Xia Yumo injured? Why didn't you tell me earlier? Your hand. Thank you for protecting the onion. How do you know to come back? Do you know You scared me to death. They took Cong Cong to the operating room And cut him open with a scalpel Scared me to death Excuse me. Now if anything happens to you and Suya I will regret it for the rest of my life liar You are still fooling around with Wen Shuya You lied to me that you were on a business trip. You are a big liar You ask me What's wrong with me? This is the wife's right. OK But you're my wife now I need to tell you I have no idea how much I was with him Just a colleague relationship It's true. It's true. Yeah. You don't have to listen to my explanation. We're just collaborating. Cong Cong How about Cong Cong? Cong Cong Poor Cong Cong Murdered at such a young age Xia Yumo, why are you so cruel? What did I do? You know what you did. You want to clear the way for your children in the future So I deliberately made Cong Cong allergic He also bribed the doctor to hurt Cong Cong Cong Cong is so small So cute How could you have the heart to let someone harm his body? butcher How dare you hurt my grandson? Look, I fought with you Ah! What a noise! Grandma, are you dancing with your hands up? Yes, yes, yes, grandma is dancing How come? Didn't you say that you used demons to attack Cong Cong? Miss Wen not only knows that Cong Cong is allergic Even when he went to the operating room and was murdered Sure enough, you poisoned Cong Cong Nonsense I didn't With your clumsy eyes and sophistry You can solve the brain damage recruited by your own company. It's You Not me. I'll check it out. Madam, you have to believe me Get out Get out of here That little bitch is safe and sound How did you do it? Xia Yimo is really your fault Pearl heart attack recurred Dare to visit him in the hospital What does Xia Mingzhu's heart attack have to do with me? I wasn't going to see him anyway You are the one who caused it anyway Now Pearl's heart needs surgery You immediately Let Tang Yu introduce an expert in cardiology And the cost of the surgery, Tang Yu must also cover it all Why did you scrape together my mother's money? You dare to come to me for money Don't blame me for not warning you Only two days left It's the other way around. Do as I say. Otherwise, tell the reporter that you murdered your sister It's up to you, anyway, don't try to threaten me again Okay, it looks like you don't want to see your brother again Lawson Luo Sheng is indeed in your hands. Where is he? I knew you were not of the same mind as our Xia family Your brother is now my last bargaining chip It's up to me to die or live Don't you dare What am I afraid of? Don't even think about returning a penny of your mother's money. The surgery with pearls will be arranged immediately Otherwise, I want you siblings to be buried with Mingzhu I am also your biological daughter If you weren't my daughter I would have strangled you long ago Think about it. Humph Ok ok Why are you crying again? What's up? i I found my brother and he was born He's in my dad's hands Your brother is in Xia Dongyang's hands He made a deal with you. Isn't that what you expected? Why are you crying? He wants me to give He wants me to be buried with Xia Mingzhu I know he didn't love me and my mom since I was a kid But I didn't expect that. He actually wants me to die Ok don't think so much What did he offer? In addition to offering me to give up my mother's inheritance He also said that Let you find a heart surgeon for Xia Mingzhu Surgery and medical expenses Tang Yue Can you help me again? I finally got the news Don't cry, I'll definitely help you. And there was a cardiac surgeon out there. Let me operate on Xia Mingzhu Brother, are you alright? I don't know what kind of family that is Still in a hurry to provoke I was really fascinated by Xia Yimao You have to do this surgery Xia Dongyang has the person I am looking for Who? Xia Yimo's younger brother The only survivor of a car accident six years ago You're still looking into that? This is the true purpose of your marriage to Xia Yimo big brother You are stunned It was an accident. accident I don't believe them. The shareholders don't believe them. I don't even talk about it these days But I already put this dark room on my head I'll do the surgery How's it going? He said yes. Surgery tomorrow at 3pm Yehaha Luckily you came forward Otherwise, Dr. Han will never agree. You helped me again. I don't even know how to thank you It was you who sacrificed your life to save Cong Cong first It should be me thanking you. So he was willing to help me For the sake of saving Cong Cong You care so much about Cong Cong He must love his mother very much jealous I was jealous. What am I jealous of with a dead man? I'm going home first You really don't have to be jealous Because of my relationship with Congcong's mother It's not what you think. Cong Cong is actually Hello Tang Yue came to the company immediately I'm already married. The succession ceremony is next week Now you tell me to cancel Just for this broken file This is your grandfather's will We missed it before. There is an addition to the will You don't just have to get married at 32 And they must give birth within two years To inherit the Down Consortium Onion is my son Whose son is Onion? You and I know If it weren't for the car accident That's enough! I will give you an account of the car accident that year But onion is the blood of the Tang family It's my son Tang Yu Okay, I won't argue with you If you want Down's You must have your child in two years Don't take Tang Cong seriously If I can't Then we can only follow your grandfather's will Choose another heir from the Tang family Think about it. Cong Cong is not Tang Yu's own son Then who can give birth to a child for Tang Yu? Who is the real young lady of the Tang family? You are back. Why don't you go back to your room to sleep? Waiting for you You've been drinking? Drink a little Dog nose, so smart Did something happen to the company? Sorry, except for taking care of Cong Cong I can't help you much either. But don't worry. I will never let anything happen to Cong Cong again I must have regarded Cong Cong as my own Do you like children? Cong Cong is so cute Yes, I like it very much. Do you want to have children of your own? Ah! My own I haven't thought about it yet. I'm still young and I haven't graduated from college yet I haven't grown up yet. Still a baby It's too early. It's getting late. Go back to your room and sleep After surgery tomorrow I will accompany you to find Xia Dongyang and ask for your brother's whereabouts OK Hey My legs are numb, hug me Zhu Mingzhu, you are awake How do you feel? The surgery was successful. The patient is also awake My job is done. Next you talk Where is my brother? What is the emergency? What should I do if there are sequelae of surgery? Before Boss Xia backtracked Let's first think about whether your daughter will survive to leave this ward you Guide Jay died badly You just handed over that little beast Didn't you hear him make fun of Mingzhu's sex life? This is your good daughter Good son-in-law White-eyed wolf who eats inside and out Xia Yimo is now an abandoned child Fortunately, we still have the pearl. Pearl, do you have confidence? Recapture the position of the young grandmother of the Tang family How to hide Tang Yu is so protective of that bitch Tang Family is not him, Tang Yu has the final say alone I heard that Mrs. Tang hates this Xia Yimo very much You just need to please Mrs. Tang Don't worry about getting close to Tang Yu This is the invitation to Mrs. Tang's birthday party next Wednesday. Dad has paved the way for you You have to have confidence Dad? Don't worry. I won't mess it up this time. But what about that little beast? You are not afraid of things being exposed Don't worry. He will never speak again for the rest of his life How is my brother? What did Dr. Han say? Your brother is currently vegetative It's all my fault I should have found my brother sooner I took him for treatment earlier He won't know Ye Mu It's not your fault. But don't worry. I have arranged for Han Yinuo to organize the best experts To operate on your brother Have you ever considered The reason why your brother became a vegetable My father has been held by my father for so many years Now I'm finally willing to find But a job person who can't speak I've long suspected that there was something else going on in the car accident But I have no evidence Maybe your dad was the breakthrough One ink You want to find out the truth Then start with Xia Mingzhu You have a good idea There is a way But it's still up to you And here they are. Xia Yumo You wear such a cheap dress to the party It seems that Tang Yu doesn't treat you well An illegitimate daughter Is it for young ladies? A poor sour taste Xia Yimo, if I were you Get out of here To avoid embarrassment Today is my mother-in-law's birthday party It's you who should get out How dare you let me go Xia Yumo, you are against the sky Today I will replace your little third mother Teach you the truth of life Who dares to teach my Tang family's daughter-in-law a lesson? Wearing an outdated dress With cheap jewelry You are too embarrassed to scold my daughter-in-law of the Tang family for being poor Who are you? Mrs. Tang You don't know us anymore. We are Yimo's family I was just now, if I hadn't stopped you The palm fell on Yimo's face You deserve to be called family Yin Mo, come here So listen up. From now on Yin Mo is from my Tang family Who dares to touch him again? It's just that I can't get along with my Tang family Mom What should I do, Mrs. Tang? He must have started to hate me Don't worry, our trump card is behind us Xia Yimo was scolded so badly You don't know. Slap the past OK But it's not good to hit people in public, right? You are the young lady of the Tang family Hit is hit And What are you wearing? Tang Yu didn't prepare a dress for you All right. I don't want to hear your explanation. Come Just wear this Remember, I don't care who you were But you are now my daughter-in-law of the Tang family Don't go out wearing such shabby clothes again After the party, you take it all with you Are these all for me? I am also for the face of the Tang family Change it quickly Let me see it. Mom, you're right I'm too good Although the appearance of the mother-in-law disrupted the original plan But maybe this will anger your witch more So as to uncover some of the truth about the car accident that year You are here too So good looking This young lady has a good temperament It's not like she's a stalwart Much more stylish than Xia Mingzhu Well, you don't look at this outfit either It's priceless Yes! Mrs. Tang is really willing to give up on this daughter-in-law Mom Why is she wearing such luxurious jewelry? Mrs. Tang is clearly hitting our Xia family in the face Oops, what's your hurry? Come with me! Ha ha. It's you again, Mrs. Tang I brought Mingzhu to give you a birthday gift. The pearl is presented Oops, this china is so familiar This pattern should be from the Tang Dynasty How did Miss Xia get it? This is a picture I took when I was studying abroad in Cambridge Our country's reputation should be brought back to the motherland Even if I spent all my savings Also at any cost I didn't expect you and I to be like-minded in this regard Mrs. Tang As long as you like it. If you like it There are still some collections in the house I'll send you a few more another day. Why don't you just let go? Can you afford to break the antique? If this is an antique Those who set up stalls on the roadside can be called antiques This It's just a fine craft You speak with evidence Want evidence OK Ah! It's a priceless antique You dare to smash I want to call the police Make you lose everything Call the police, okay? You report? I was about to ask the police to catch it for me The thief who stole my mother's belongings 6 years ago Xia Yimo, we are talking about antique damage now. Why did you kick your mother? Because this fake is my mom After my mom died, you just took my mom's money Since she didn't let go of anything The three of you Xia family All thieves Nonsense Xia Yimo, you said it was a fake Do you have any evidence? evidence This porcelain enamel is made of exquisite But the Tang Dynasty had no enamel craftsmanship at all And I made this for my mom. My stamp is on the bottom. Xia family mother and daughter actually stole a fake and gave it away So embarrassing How dare you bring me a fake? Or steal Yimo's mother's belongings? No, I don't know. Xia Yimo You must have framed it, you bitch I'm sorry. Mrs. Tang We must have gone out in a hurry and got the wrong box. I'll make up a genuine antique for you another day. Don't have to There is no shortage of antiques in our Tang family. YES YES YES What we give is comparable to what your daughter-in-law gives. Xia Yimo, you are empty-handed Did you not prepare a birthday present for your mother-in-law? Sorry. I'm late. Tang Yu, why did you come so late? Because I asked him to help me pick out the box. What other gifts does the family prepare? Mom, this is the birthday present I chose for you. Xia Yimo Did you paint the picture yourself? The painting is still so ordinary You don't know how to draw, do you? This is the dying work of the famous painting master Akiyama priceless My mom has a good eye. This is the treasure of Master Akiyama Late autumn water However, I have long heard that the painting has been damaged Which master repaired this? Such an ingenious repair I'm afraid only that one. The master of falling into the water who never shows up in front of people To do Far away Near Yimo oops Oops ok ok As expected of my daughter-in-law Oops Tang Yu You have to take care of it As for the Xia family From Now On My Tang family has nothing to do with the Xia family anymore Did we go astray? Don't you want a cliche? Don't worry, it's under control. Now is the time. What's up? I was originally curious why you Must choose an illegitimate daughter It seems that you have already investigated Xia Yimo This is really not noisy. today I just found out about Xia Yimo's attainments in antique restoration Never mind. I heard about your grandfather's will I can only help you here Tonight, you guys Just make me a fat grandson Mom What did you just do? Just to get Xia Yimo to give birth to a baby for me No, definitely not. I really think this kid Yimo is good Life experience is also quite pitiful So You have to have a baby with him Let him be a veritable young grandmother of the Tang family He is mom I will have children with Xia Yumo But not now. Stay out of this After tonight I gave birth to a child for Tang Yu Then I am a veritable young grandmother of the Tang family A veritable young grandmother of the Tang family That was pretty good. Exactly. I didn't expect his daughter-in-law to be so capable. Here. Cheers. OK. Please do Ha ha. Definitely Let's make an appointment next time. Well, cheers How come? How dizzy! Mr. Tang, you are drunk I'll take you back to your room and rest for a while. scram Mrs. Tang is drunk I'm about to send him to rest Oh. Then I really want to thank you for your kindness Help Mr. Tang to the roof to rest Mr. Tang Don't think I don't know what you've done. I advise you to get out of the imperial capital as soon as possible Otherwise, wait for Tang Yu to sober up and eat less fruit than you Humph Ah! Xia Yingluo How dare you grab me? I am the young milk of the Tang family Do you dare to hit me? Xia Yumo, you ruined everything for me Why are you doing this to me? Why do you say Did you forget the car accident 6 years ago? car accident What nonsense are you talking about? Look at his guilty expression The car accident really had something to do with them Lawson told me everything Good and evil will be rewarded in the end The embarrassment of today's banquet is just revenge for your first It's none of my business Joe? I don't know what you mean. My mother was going to leave the Xia family Xia Dongyang hated my mother for betraying him So I killed him. Right? Just a bitch Who cares who he marries? We want his money. Sure enough, you killed Rome Say Who is the mastermind You're ripping me off. No. That little beast is a vegetable Impossible to speak Xia Yumo You're blowing me up? But your little trick is really lame Ah! Bitch, how dare you slap me? I want to hit you for a long time Go back and tell Xia Dongyang One day I will send your family of three in Avenge my mother strange Why doesn't Tang Yu answer the phone? Xia Yumo Doctor Han, have you seen Tang Yu? I called and no one answered. He was drugged. What! He was poisoned. It's poisoning But he'll be fine with you Are you kidding me? I'm not a doctor Oops, don't be torn One step later and he suffocated to death Hey Did Dr. Han call an ambulance? You are not a doctor You hurry up and have a look. He is poisonous Only you can solve it And I don't understand that people will really die What! No, I What is Dr. Han doing? Open the door Detoxify my brother well Someone came to open the door at dawn Hey Tang Yue Are you okay? I knew he was kidding me. I'm glad you're okay. Tang Yue Why is your face so red? a dime Help me. Ah, aren't you poisoned? Yes It's aphrodisiac It's aphrodisiac. But I will only be in love with you He is so poisonous Only you can solve it And I don't understand that people will really die I asked you to please Mrs. Tang What have you done? Now the entire imperial capital is banning our Xia family Don't leave me a way out What are you yelling for? Because you gave us a fake antique You bitch I can't get through death Pearl, how are you? Is the heart uncomfortable again? Xia Yingmo He already knows we killed them. Let me tell you something. He's going to send us to do it himself Lego, now what? All these years he's been looking for Rosen I knew it wasn't that simple So far I'm afraid only he can save the Xia family I'm going to make a call emergency One hundred thousand urgent Xia Yimo has started to investigate the truth of the car accident Tang Yu must be suspicious It seems that this is his life to marry your daughter Tang Yu is still secretly investigating the charge Yeah, so you have to come back and stop him. Yes, go back and stop Tang Yu from continuing the investigation So you listen to me do something Give me a chance to go back You wake up and look at that file Ok you I just saved you last night. I'm going to divorce me today You bastard Little ancestor take a look first South Lake Villa Transfer Letter Exclusive for schoolbag jewelry Thank you, I'm not going Why are you still working part-time when you are not short of money? Before that, it was to hide from the next family Otherwise, with my talent for restoring cultural relics It's not hard to make money So I don't want your compensation. Last night? Last night? Think of it as repayment repay kindness Show gratitude with your own body King Xia Yu, are you going to piss me off? How about you? Let me watch you suffocate to death It wasn't you who moved me last night It's you. Do you understand? you What do you mean? So stupid So happy Don't spill it. It's a tonic for my daughter-in-law It was hard to protect him last night Hehe Hey you Li Waner Are you a human or a ghost? Mom, I'm back. Where's Tang Yu? Tell me where Tang Yu is Otherwise you don't want to see another child Tang Yu is still alive 36th Floor Presidential Suite Good brother, I came to see you Did you read it? Looks like I detoxified last night It's so good. roll Hey Close later. Hand over the person to you first Check it out You were drugged last night And before that, Cong Cong was almost disemboweled in the hospital It's all about this woman Sure enough, you started with a child You're just unscrupulous If it weren't for my assist Can you have last night? Xia Yinmo, you should thank me Thanks. How about kicking your Wen family out of the imperial capital? No Mr. Tang For the sake of me following you for so many years I beg you to spare me once At least spare my family The Wen family will be completely bankrupt within three days There will be no more turning around in the imperial capital Don't you like to drug? Heino gave him a bowl of the medicine he gave me Throw him into the street Ah no Cousin, I was wrong. I was really wrong. All because of you Did you think you won? Tang Yu married you to use you You slept last night because you wanted to use you to give birth to her child shut up Hahahaha how guilty It was part of your plan that I drugged last night If Xia Yimo is really pregnant Tang Yu, you should thank me Hahaha You're just a pawn, aren't you? The person Tang Yu really loves is Li Waner Hey What nonsense are you talking about? You guys continue? You guys continue? Why don't you let him say Because I wanted to tell you personally Succession ceremony cancelled What? You're married? According to grandpa's will You can successfully inherit the Tang Consortium Because of my grandfather's will There is another way to add Just want more Have a baby So last night was really red-eyed I'm plotting to extract the truth about the car accident from Xia Mingzhu You plan to sleep, I will inherit the Tang enterprise If I sleep, you have to calculate. I am the only person in your heart Not so much money I earned it last night. Not to mention Although the uncle is a little older But the skin and technology are really good Forget it, too lazy to care about idiots But you are not curious about who Li Waner is I'm not stupid to speak Chinese Li Jianji of Wen Shuya I don't care who Li Waner is Since you didn't marry her Then she's insignificant smart Auntie will be here soon to deliver breakfast Go wash up This breakfast is coming Tang Yu Breakfast arrived so soon Mom Human or ghost It's me, I'm back, who are you? I am Li Waner. You are Li Waner Yes, also Cong Cong's mother Oh, I see. Then you talk first I won't bother I'm going out first What are you going to do? You are my Tang Yu's wife I have nothing to say to him. Tang Yu, you are talking about anger, right? You obviously love me Even willing to take care of me and Tang Yu's son You and I, Lian Yin, have no feelings at all So I am not sad that you married Tang Yu. If you just want to catch up with me Let me ask you something. You ask You are still alive What about Tang Yi? Tang Yi is still alive I'm just not in good health, so Where is he? If you want to see Tang Yi OK Then you marry me Hey, I said I don't have feelings for you anymore Still thinking about my location My temper I You married Tang Yin six years ago And my wife will only be Xia Yuluo Six years ago, if you hadn't been so cold to me I'm not going to marry your brother in a fit of rage 6 years and I've had enough Tang Yu, either you marry me today Or you will never see Cong Cong again Pardon me? Hello Mr. Zhang Young grandma is not good In a hurry, the young master was snatched away What, you call the police now? I'll be there in a minute. Tang Yu disappeared in a hurry Doing what? I didn't do anything. I was just trying to scare you. It was you who kidnapped my son I think it's you, right? As soon as you got back Disappeared in a hurry Where in the world Such a coincidence I see clearly that you want to take Cong Cong away Tang Yu You found such a brainless girl To take care of Cong Cong How could I possibly kidnap my own son? If Cong Cong has three long and two short I'm not done with you Stop arguing. Shouldn't we find Cong Cong now? Walk home I am Cong Cong's mother You can't stop me from going to him I don't stop But my car only has room for my wife Tang Yu, you hate me for betraying you To be so indifferent to me Right? I explained it. That's mad at you. let go Let him in! We'll talk about you and him later The hasty kidnapping must have something to do with him It might help us to bring him along How about any clues? Don't worry, now the map has been laid out The kidnapper should be in a hurry I see you are just sitting still You hate me, so you have a grudge against Cong Cong You're married now? You will have your own child soon So you gave up my cleverness If you say one more word, get out of here Hello Peng Yu has been waiting for a long time I just saw your son No, it's you. It's worth preparing 200 million in cash within three days Or I'll let you collect his body What a big breath Do you know how much 200 million in cash is? Even if I can raise it in three days Are you sure you can take Xia Dongyang away? Haha, don't give me a hat You don't care what I do with the money. Or I'll kill this little brat right now It really is you If it weren't for you How could Tang Yun be related to the Xia family? It also implicates my Cong Cong If anything happens to Cong Cong I will fight with you Li Waner, you disappeared for six years What children are you pretending to be? Touch my wife again I'll let you die completely Sorry. It doesn't hurt anymore. It must be the banquet that makes Xia Dongyang hold a grudge That's why he kidnapped Cong Cong Xia Dongyang doesn't have the guts to be an enemy of my Tang family There must be someone else behind him Don't worry, I will enter the company to raise money. You can wait for my news at home. You tell the girl Contact me if she moves You pretended to be quite similar in front of Tang Yu just now I really thought I had Mrs. Tang's approval Slept with Tang Yu again You can take my seat as the eldest young lady of the Tang family You even know that I slept with Tang Yu You should have been back by now You've been spying on me Yes, in that case. Then why didn't you show up sooner? You, an illegitimate daughter, deserve to ask about me I am the second teenager of the decent Tang family Do you really think you ordered your dad to get rid of my hurry? You can sit firmly in the position of the eldest young lady of the Tang family Who ordered Xia Dongyang? We both know How dare you bite me back I know Xia Dongyang as a person He's dead. You can do anything for money If you really care about Cong Cong's personality I advise you to pack up now Hello The user you dialed is temporarily unavailable Li Bai really has a problem He must have been involved in the kidnapping Hurry up and go to the bank to withdraw money! Time waits for no man Don't go to the bank It is faster to go to the company to withdraw money. You want to embezzle public funds You are crazy and you don't know the consequences The other party doesn't want money Xia Dongyang doesn't want money What else could you ask for? Who told you it was Xia Dongyang's? Since Li Waner is back Who do you think is missing? Tang Yi He brought home the wrong way What is he trying to do? What is the picture? Six years ago, I was just about to get married and inherit the Down family. He suddenly broke into my corner Now I just got married to Yin Mo He and Li Waner came back to life He is going to compete with you for the Tang Group. Then you can't use public funds This will fall into the other party's trap Am I that stupid? Mom comes to the company Play with me Two hundred million from the company account Tang Yu Do you still have eyes? Wang law, this is called embezzlement of public funds Don't say it so ugly? The Tang Group will sooner or later belong to my Tang Group It was me, Tang Yu, who hit you. Tang Yu, you have disappointed me so much. If you insist I quit immediately If I don't approve your resignation The person who should resign is Tang Yu Mrs. Tang Are you kidding me? Do I look like I'm joking? This is the document temporarily revoking Tang Yu's position as president I have asked the other shareholders to sign Take a look. Mom You can't do that. This situation is urgent Big deal You can't embezzle public funds for your own personal gain The Tang Group belongs to everyone You're not alone. Tang Yu, you have disappointed me so much. It's not irreversible yet, or No, this is the resolution of the board of directors Effective immediately Announce the adjournment of the entire group Mom Mom I have to take this money Let me explain. Don't call me mom I don't have a public-private son like you From now on, you have nothing to do with the Down Group What do you mean? Are you no longer the president of Tang's? Right I am no longer the president of Down's I can't get a ransom of 200 million What about the ransom? What to do in a hurry How could you not be the president of Tang's? It doesn't matter, even if Tang Yun is not the president of Tang's We can also raise money The big deal is that we sold the car and the house No way. Tang Yu must be the president The money must be taken from the company Why do you have to take money from the company? Do you have to force Tang Yu to embezzle public funds? I won't give up until I send her to jail. I didn't You are bloody You, you will kill in a hurry I don't want to be in a hurry Then you say Who in the world ordered Xia Dongyang to kidnap Rush? Hello Mr. Tang No, it's not Mr. Tang anymore, haha. News travels fast. Yes, I'm not the president of Tang's now. I can't get enough ransom I only have 30 million 30 million Tang Yue, are you sending beggars? You can buy any apartment for more than 50 million But I want to know who kidnapped Cong Cong Do I need to say that? Of course your good wife My good daughter Xia Yimo Hello Xia Yimo is really you I fought with you Don't try to throw dirty water on me I'm not. Otherwise, I wouldn't have to take Xia's mother and daughter hostage What! When did you touch someone? On the way Just to keep someone from throwing dirty water on me I know Xia Dongyang as a person Even if we scrape together enough money He might not let you go So we have to have our own chips. Or is it smart? Bring people in let go let go How dare you kidnap us? This is a society ruled by law Do you really think the Tang family can cover the sky with one hand? Being a hostage and being so arrogant What hostage? Xia Yumo, what nonsense are you talking about? You'll see in a minute. Make a call. Got the money so quickly Money has no life, but there are two Your daughter and wife Hahahaha Bah, two pussies who are not successful enough to fail If it weren't for them I won't take risks Xia Dongyang, do you even want Xia Mingzhu's life? You are my daughter too Did I care? Either give money Or collect the body of this little brat That's not possible. No way my dad could never do this to me Lower Toyo, the one who got a thousand knives Don't let me catch you Or you'll be torn to pieces You are really a loving family Luckily I was so envious when I was a child Xia Dongyang doesn't care if you live or die If you want to live Tell me where the onions are I really don't know. I hate that Xia Dongyang more than you now He is a heartless man. Really? Then tell me the owner of the car accident six years ago I'll let you go. Mom Can't trust him He's ripping us off I see. I just say one word no. But I advise you Stop checking What do you mean? I won't say another word. Are you capable? You killed me here Don't think I dare not Hello, the princess has been caught What? How? I didn't catch it It's Tang Yi Tang Yi Tang Yi Go home and see for yourself Tang Yu You really didn't die brother Mom I'm back! Sorry. I'm back late. It's not too late, you came back just in time Get up! Yeah bro I just happened to hear that Cong Cong was kidnapped He secretly led the police to catch the kidnapper Saved Cong Cong Just come back, just come back The family is finally reunited Tonight, Mom will cook for you by herself Cong Cong Come to mom Baby come over I want to hug Auntie Mo Cong Cong, I am the mother Don't you know your mother? Come over here Don't do this Scared the kid You shut up What kind of ecstasy soup did you give my son? You supported your father in kidnapping him He also clings to you bad woman Wan'er You protect him again I want to say too Rush is my son Since I'm back I wouldn't have handed him over to this unmarketable illegitimate daughter You hit me? It's easy to hit you. Sister-in-law helped us raise our children for so long You dare to disrespect my sister-in-law again Don't follow me Even you protect him Obviously it was this bitch's father who kidnapped Vinegar Vinegar Who told you that the murderer is in the next life? Isn't he the kidnapper you caught? Of course not. Just a lunatic Why did you disappoint my sister-in-law? How could it not be Xia Dongyang? Xia Dongyang himself has admitted on the phone Someone must have helped him find a scapegoat Sister-in-law Do you think Will I deliberately let go of the murderer who kidnapped my son? You can come back from the dead What else is impossible? big brother Keep your woman's mouth shut My wife said that. That's what I wanted to say. Six years. Why didn't you show up? But it happened to be When I was about to take over as president of Down's What a coincidence! I'm not afraid that you and Mom will object to me being with Wan'er I understand, big brother. Are you afraid that I will come back and compete with you for the family property? OK, so Let's go then. Stop Today is a happy day for family reunion What are you two brothers doing? Mom, this is to prevent me from competing with him for property I'm afraid the car accident 6 years ago was not an accident Another Puzeng tree Okay, let's look into the car accident from 6 years ago Enough about the car accident, no one is allowed to check again Since you are back Tang's has your share It just so happens that your brother is currently the president Just in time to replace him to practice That being the case Then listen to the fuck You two Hurry up and give me a big fat grandson Mom I know you stepped down as president to save Cong Cong And let Tang Yi take your back It's so unfair. Mom knows She's forcing us to have a baby She made it clear that she came back to compete with you for the family property It also means that you said you did the car accident. Tang Yue, Tang Yi and my mother Could the car accident 6 years ago be the same? Yes There we go. Maybe the two of them did it together But what was Tang Yi's motive? Died for 6 years and came back What are you trying to do? Ah, unfortunately the clue is broken Isn't your brother still there? What he said was the clue Han Yinuo told me Surgery next Wednesday. The success rate of the surgery is over 60% Really? That's great. Thank you Tang Yu Thank you. I prefer the physical. Thank you. Ah! Congratulations on being dormant for 6 years Although he failed to send Tang Yu in by embezzling public funds But you also succeeded Tang Yu as you wished Temporarily only The old woman forced Tang Yu and Xia Yimo to have a child It proves that he still wants Tang Yu to take over Tang's Group Tang Yu will not use children to rise to power With his intelligence, he doesn't need me to warn you We are now grasshoppers on a rope Be careful when you speak Don't forget. I'm not him. Lu Sheng can survive a car accident and fall off a cliff It will be fine this time. The surgery was a success. You can wake up after the anesthesia effect is over Thank you doctor Hey, you can't go in yet. Transfer to general ward Please visit me again. OK Then I'll go buy him something to eat first Wait until he wakes up to eat Send more people to the door of the ward I understand, so lonely Han Yinuo rescued the little brat What to do now Then kill him completely That's easy to say. Why do you have to let me do every funeral? Just because I have the evidence that you bought a murder Want to go to jail? You threaten me? Remember Make sure to do it before that little bastard speaks If you miss Humph Your wife and children will be buried with you Wife, it's 10 o'clock Oh, then you can go home first. I'm here with Luo Sheng tonight There happens to be an empty bed next to it No. You're my wife To sleep with me Why are you jealous of my brother? Mr. Tang, how old are you? Why do you tell me your age again? Ok then I'll sleep here What are you doing? This is a hospital. I know this is a hospital You don't find it more exciting Stimulate you, damn it! Luo Sheng is still there Open me up I'm not kidding you anymore. Tonight's exciting is behind What excitement? You just sleep. Leave the rest to me OK Are you sure Xia Dongyang will come tonight? He wants to silence Tonight is the last chance To open the door Where are the bastards going? Uh-huh. It was you You two die together Ah! It depends on whether you have the skills. Renault stopped helping. Uh-huh. Ah! It really is you Can't run away The police will be here soon. Hahaha don't move Don't come here Don't come here Wang Yue What's wrong? It's you don't move Hahaha don't move Let him go! Beast, that's your own daughter So what if I was? Let me go! Or I'll kill him move It's no use killing me It's all police downstairs Scared you can't run away Then you will die with me You are not allowed to come here I don't move You dare to hurt him I will kill you. Freeze Don't come here Don't come here The police have surrounded all exits Xia Dongyang, you can't run away shut up You let me go Xia Dongyang, you can't run away You let me go No, he's going to the rooftop and take the stairs. Xia Dongyang, do you want to jump off the building and escape? I see you just want to die If you hadn't investigated that bitch's oath Did I end up like this? You admitted it? You set up the car accident that killed my mother I designed your mother's car accident Why don't I say it? I don't want to live anyway What nonsense Who let you die? Missed today If I don't die, my pearl will not live I just die. I'm going to take this bad life on you too Hahahahaha You still want to run? Xia Ziyao Dongying to Dongying Hey, don't come to Dongying Don't mess around Hahaha Xia Yimo From now on, you are also a murderer Yimao Dad Xia Yumo, you are a murderer Try moving him. He's a murderer. You still have to protect him Xiaoyuzhu Don't slander here So many people have seen He pushed my dad off with his own hands You sue, even if you are Tang Yu I'm going to fight this case to the end Let you sit through the prison Here we go. Xia Yimo, you will be punished Lemon he did it on purpose He just wants me to live forever Are accused of murdering their father But I'm also his daughter. Why would he do this to me? Lemon is ok I just said if he doesn't die Xia Mingzhu will not survive So there must be someone behind him I got it. Don't worry, as long as he does it. Even if he is my brother I won't be soft I believed it. Luo Sheng, you are finally awake Sister is sister Excuse me. I will never let you get hurt again When I grow up Let me protect you elder sister He is his Tang Yu is your brother-in-law Sister, you are married. I missed so much after the car accident Luo Cheng about a car accident How much do you remember? Remember all There was a couple in the car opposite But the driver came straight at us. Three hits in a row Knocked us off a cliff Didn't the police say that the driver Are only Tang Yi and Li Waner missing after falling off the cliff? Luo Sheng, do you remember correctly? Absolutely not. Tang Yi does have a driver But it disappeared inexplicably a week before the car accident Call Qin Minglao Since the driver is the real murderer Then why did Master Tang hide it? And threw dirty water on you Master Tang has a problem Something happened to Mr. Tang Xia's mother and daughter at the memorial service A press conference was held Identify the young lady as the murderer It's all over the place now The Tang Group was also affected as a result Did the stock price drop to the end? Now the shareholders of the whole company are looking for you Said to call an emergency meeting Okay, since they're courting death with lanterns Then I will fulfill them. What are you doing? Of course, to send my good father on his last journey He came to me before he died Then I'll let him die in peace I accompany you No, you are now Must go back to the company to guard Don't let Tang Yi take advantage of the loophole Don't worry, I left what happened last night behind They can't do anything to me Maybe I can still get it out of their mouths Tell me something about Qin Minglang OK I really like your cleverness more and more What's wrong with handling it? Give me a call. OK Miss Pang is still young after all Face the Xia family mother, daughter and reporters alone I'm afraid it's a bit overwhelming. Come on How about I get someone to help? No need, he is waiting to settle with the Xia family. It's been a long time He is fully capable of solving this matter. It's me. I want to meet this Tang Yi's narrative for a while. Okay Today is the day of my husband's funeral It shouldn't be using public resources. But my husband died unjustly. He was killed by his own daughter. What! Mr. Xia, didn't he commit suicide by jumping off a building? Yes, is it the young lady of the Tang family? Yes, it's Xia Yimo But the Tang family covers the sky with one hand Cover up the murderer We mother and daughter are really cornered So I implore media friends to help us seek justice from the Tang family Mom's law is clear retribution There are so many media reporters to help Don't worry. Xia Yimo will definitely pay the price he deserves The law of heaven is clear retribution Ah! Ah! There he is. That's good. I'm here to pay you back today Xia Yumo, you killed your father And come to his funeral Do you want him to die in peace? You invited so many reporters to act Who the hell is trying to make a mess? But it's okay. Just in time to use the hands of reporters to tell the world What wicked thing did you mother and daughter do? Xia Yumo, you killed your own father Dare to be violent in this big house Do you really think no one can do anything to you? Buy a few reporters and write a few articles slanderous media report Just want to put a murderer on my head Why do you really think that it is up to journalists to solve cases now? Don't rely on the police anymore The police department was bought by you Then you should show evidence? Evidence that I bribed the police Evidence of my murder As long as you take out one Public opinion will eat me alive Yes, Mrs. Xia Hurry up and take out the evidence of Xia Yimo's murder We we all speak for you Don't take it out yet Is there really no Why not? Sorry about that. I have a recording here I can share it with you It's all your fault, you bitch If you hadn't investigated the cause of that bitch's death How did I come this far? You admitted that you did my mom's car accident I designed your mother's car accident Why not tell you I'm going to die anyway What nonsense are you talking about? Who let you die? I won't die tonight My pearl will not survive But I just die I'm going to plant this life on you Don't make you feel better Hahaha How could this be? It turned out to be framed Ask for a hammer to get a thorn What! Fake it must be fake This must be a synthetic drink I've shared this audio on the Internet. If any of you have doubts You can check this audio. I didn't kill anyone. The real murderer is Xia Dongyang Fake you nonsense Xia Dongyang personally admitted And fake he coveted my mother's property Designed a car accident that killed my mother I imprisoned my brother for six years. Now I'm worried about my brother waking up The truth about the princess's car accident Ran to assassinate him again last night Assassination failed The police are coming Don't give up Jumped off the building to frame me again That's the whole truth. God Xia Dongyang turned out to be the real murderer It is said that tiger poison does not eat children He even spared his own daughter Kill other people's mother Appropriate other people's property And finally a backlash. This Xia family is really a bunch of devils shut up Even if my dad killed someone What's our business? If you have the ability, go to the underworld and catch him Xia Dongyang is dead But you and your daughter are here. You owe me and my mom Must be returned today Your mother's death was done by Xia Dongyao alone Do you have to kill them all? Remember who raised you all these years? Raise you He beat and scolded me since I was a child A full meal is a luxury After school Every penny I spend I earned it all by working part-time. When I grow up, I will sell me to an old man for money This is what you call parenting Bah even so Then what does your mother's death have to do with us? That's okay. You live in a mansion that was bought on my mother's estate With the jewelry he left behind Enjoying the glory and wealth he bought with his blood You're still here to tell me it's okay What do you want? I want you to hand over all the corporal's shares Get out of this house Get off the map Xia Yimo, you want us to get out of the house Is this going to put us on the streets? The law of heaven is clear retribution Didn't you say that? Enjoy your retribution now Don't kill them all Okay, then tell me where Qin Minglang is Who is Qin Minglang? I don't know. You don't have to rush to answer I'll give you three days. Or tell me about Xia Dongyang and Qin Minglang's hookup Or get out of the ground Ah! This Let the meeting begin Brother, have you forgotten? Now the president of the Tang Group is me Please make way Is the acting president Humph It will be official soon. Uncle Fubo didn't tell you? My succession ceremony is on the first day of next month. What is the succession ceremony? Yi is already married and has children According to the will, he is most eligible to inherit the Tang family It also depends on you that Tang Yu's wife is a murderer Now it's making the whole group smoky Stock prices plummeted I admit the previous one. But my wife is a murderer Evidence So many people in the hospital witnessed it with their own eyes yesterday What more evidence do you need? Now the Xia mother and daughter should be holding a press conference Don't struggle Make way for Wang Yi Left hand block Injuries and tears as a child He is not him But who is he? Speaking of press conferences Haven't you all seen the latest news? What's the news? My wife didn't kill him Xia Dongyang is the murderer There is such a thing Xia Dongyang was involved in the car accident 6 years ago Yes, so last night he went to the hospital to find my brother-in-law Murder I didn't expect to be touched by me He committed suicide His wife and daughter were killed behind the scenes Listen to you There is another mastermind in the car accident Maybe. So am I still qualified to sit in this position now? I've been blaming you since I mentioned it Since Xia Yumo is not a murderer Then you should come to the succession ceremony on the first day of next month Fubo I am the most qualified Your eldest brother is married and has children. Sooner or later I'm tired, you can do it yourself Brother, this little sister-in-law you married has high means? Xia Dongyang can't do anything to him even if he decides to die The mastermind behind manipulating Xia Dongyang is really enough This Xia Dongyang died Putting all the blame for the car accident on him, right? Qin Minglang Big brother is crazy Qin Minglang was my driver six years ago Why did he die? Isn't Qin Minglang missing? How do you know he's dead? I guess You guessed right Good brother Not my opponent Tang family Forget it. Mom Do you know Qin Minglang? Then why didn't you tell Xia Yimo? So maybe he can let us go What do you know? Qin Minglang is ten million times more terrifying than Xia Yimo Don't mention this person again Who is this guy? Mom, since this person is so powerful Why don't we ask him for help? You're right, there's no way out It's better to fight At least ensure the future of the pearl OK Hello, I'm Xia Dongyang's wife Xia Yimo already knows you But I'll get rid of him for you. condition After the event Marry my daughter OK Hey, did you see the news? I win big Yeah, thanks to my wife Awesome right The first day of next month is my succession ceremony Really? Those old men finally sent you back to inherit the hall attendant Yeah. Where are you? I'll pick you up No, I'm just about to drive home. Hello Yin Mo Yin Mo What happened to Mr. Tang? Something happened to Yin Mo? Ordered to go down to the whole city to search for Yin Mo's traces Focus on the investigation of the mother and daughter of the Xia family team Ok, I'll do it right away What do you want to do when you wake up? You're crazy. Kidnapping is illegal Are you going down the old road of the cliff? Is there any other way for me to go? Bitch shouldn't have taken you in in the first place I should have killed you when I told your mother Hahaha But it doesn't matter now Want to kill me I am the young lady of the Tang family You killed me. Do you think you and Xia Mingzhu still have a way to live? Don't take Tang Yu to press me I'll tell you what. Tang Yu is finished Ha ha. That guy is ruthless Tang Yu is no match for him at all Wait until you die Our pearl is on the rise Hahaha Tang Yu's opponent Ha ha. The person you mentioned is Tang Yi. Now that you know Then it's even more dead You calm us first Can we have a good chat first? I've waited long enough. Should have killed you two years ago It won't be caused by you today. Pearl is my life Whoever gets in his way will die! Can you escape I have it all arranged Wait until you die The child in the hospital has to be buried with him The three of you can be reunited underground? Don't be afraid of lemons I'll take you home Just in time I'll take you on your way Tangyuan Tangyuan Are you all right? Tangyuan Hahahaha Tangyuan, do you think I have this hand? Prepare for you all to die Tangyuan Ah, Tangyuan. Are you okay? Don't cry. I'm fine. Tangyuan Tangyuan Tangyuan Doctor Tang, look at his dumplings Husband, you are finally awake. Do you feel any discomfort? Does it hurt? It doesn't hurt. Yeah. How can it not hurt if there is so much blood? If this happens again in the future Don't risk your life for me again Ten thousand more times, I will still protect you. Are you stupid? Are you so willing to sacrifice your life? Of course I cherish my life But until the danger comes I just realized that you are more important than my life Go away and let me in Don't see Xia Yimo Let me in! Just in time I just want to settle accounts with him Send him in. Xia Yimo let my mother go The person your mother stabbed was Tang Yu Even if I let it go The people of the Tang family may not agree Isn't your man dead yet? Xia Mingzhu I have endured all the hurts you have done to me in the past But you dare to touch my husband? You are courting death Your mother stabbed Tang Yu How should I punish you? What do you want? I was going to let you go Since you don't value it Then don't go Help! Drag him out Locked up with his mother You let me go Don't touch me! Let's go Why are you laughing? It feels so good to be protected by a little wife This is worth it. Nonsense What are you talking about? The person behind Xia Dongyang is Tang Yi Not Tang Yi OK It's Qin Minglang What! This is the information I investigated Qin Minglang After a car accident Qin Minglang died in Jicheng But Tang Yi and Li Waner have been in the past 6 years I also happen to live in Jicheng Tang Yi has changed so much that I feel unfamiliar But Qin Minglang looks the same as Tang Yi. plastic surgery Maybe it's true. Tang Yi died 6 years ago But I haven't found Qin Minglang yet. Exact evidence of Taojiang in the Li Dynasty Maybe there is that evidence of a person Li Waner If he wanted to lose, he would have lost long ago You don't understand women I have a way to get him to talk Oops, just rest well. Leave this alone What do you want to do with the Xia family mother and daughter? Isn't he a prick? Then I'll find someone to hang up and tie two first Take the old one to the police station small Just throw him to the guy who killed four or five wives Mr. Huang Who did you learn these torturous tricks from? OK Self-learning without a teacher Have a good rest. I'm going to Diewan return You can go back to accompany Cong Cong Don't stay with me in the hospital tonight Oh. This is a hospital. Can you pay attention? Xia Yimo's mouth is about to be kissed by you Are you jealous? Your wife Most people really dare not want it You look weak and naive But actually the scheming is very spicy The screams of the Xia family mother and daughter Let me go first for the first time Villains do their own sins and cannot live Qin Minglang's identity was discovered by me There should be revenge on me soon You cooperate with me in a play What play? Didn't he want me to die? Then I'll die to show him I just happened to be shelling the golden cicada To gather evidence against him Oh. No wonder you want to spare Xia Yumo Fine, I can handle it. Fart My husband is waiting for me to come home for dinner Husband Li Waner Are you sure that person is your husband? What do you know? I know it all He is not Tang Yan It's Qin Minglang Nonsense I have nothing to say to you Li Waner It's not enough for you to be controlled by him for 6 years Do you still want to risk your and Cong Cong's lives now? Sure enough, what are you doing with domestic violence? Such a man is not worth your protection Then what? Please return Tang Yu to me. You think beautifully Then don't talk about it, etc. I can guarantee the safety of you and Shallot. Xia Dongyang was forced to jump off a building You know so many of his secrets? Will die worse Even onions can be killed As long as you are willing to help me expose his true face I can guarantee the safety of your mother and child Why should I believe you? You don't have to believe me. But you have to trust Tang Yu. I believe him. But it's too late Tang Yu is probably doomed now What do you mean? Maybe you can get to the hospital before it's too late If Tang Yu hadn't died Let him find this person Tang Yu, answer the phone Tang Yu, I beg you Hello husband Why doesn't the wife speak? Are you home? Ah! Scared me to death Thank goodness you're all right Even what my son said scared me to death Are you worried about me? I really can't leave me for a moment now Hey What's up? Tang Yue Tang Yue Hey A saint like me who saves people in times of crisis It's radiant all the time Doctor Han What happened to Tang Yu? Say something. What happened to Tang Yu? Tang Yu She Almost dead What nonsense are you talking about? He was fine this afternoon Why not? He was injected with a rare drug I don't know what to do. You go see him. That's not possible. Tang Yu can't die Tang Yu Tang Yu Tang Yu, Tang Yu, wake up Han Yu lied to me, right? How could you be willing to leave me You're not going to die, are you? Tang Yu Tang Yu, Tang Yu, Bimo, Tang Yu, how is he? Doctor Han said Tang Yu Only two days at most Mom The famous Tang Yu is nothing more than that In the end, he died at my hands like Tang Yi Go back! This Wanguan family property of the Tang Group is mine Mom You take good care of your body. There are still two days left. I will never give up on Tang Yu Mom and sister-in-law are right You mustn't collapse now Why don't you sign this share transfer agreement? Pardon me? Now your brother's life and death are uncertain You're still thinking about his shares Mom, big brother has an accident now The company has to have someone to bear it Even for the sake of the company Sign it now By the way, I'm guaranteed to be the next director It was you, Tang Yu, who saw through your identity You just want to kill him, don't you? What did you say? How could my aunt kill Tang Yu? He is not Aunt Tang What nonsense are you talking about? He is not Tang Yu What else could it be? He is Qin Minglang, the mastermind of the car accident 6 years ago Right I'm really not Tang Yi But the mastermind of the car accident 6 years ago It's Xia Dongyang and Tang Yi What nonsense are you talking about? I'm not talking nonsense. 6 years ago Xia Dongyang and Tang Yi found me at the same time One wants to kill his mistress and take all the assets Another one. Want to fake death and elope with Li Waner I'm just going with the flow I did for him the second young master of the Tang family that he least wanted to do What about my son Tang Yi? Oh Tang Yi Are you dead? By you Kill him By the way, I also want to thank you. At that time, I opposed him being with Li Waner Otherwise, I wouldn't be standing here today. Mom, don't worry. I will take his place in the future and honor you well To be the chairperson of the Down Group You go away morality morality Mom, are you alright? Come on, come on, mom Quick set is fast Stop roll You let me go Are you still pretending to be chaste with me? Didn't you follow Tang Yu to gain his power? From Now On Tang's is all mine You might as well follow me Bah With a scumbag like you Better let me die somehow Ask me sooner or later I'm going to see if the old woman is dead first Stay here honestly The door is full of my people, don't try to escape Tang Yue, it's great that you're okay But something happened to mom. Mom is ok It was all played for him So you already knew that Qin Minglang would start Come together Hiding from me alone Too late to tell you I'll settle the bill with you later That's right. Li Waner said to ask you to find this person Can you pull away? It's not hard to get out But I'm worried about you. Don't worry. You and mom both fell down one after another Group shareholders must be suspicious Tang Yi needs me to testify for him To sit in that position You little brain It's always online. But you have to take care of yourself. If you've cried enough, get out of here Xia Yumo, don't challenge my bottom line Hey, hey, big brother. Big Brother Goose Crying Not so much? Let's get down to business first Tackle the grandson later I must break his hand that touched the wildcat just now OK Now what? Go find someone Before the conclusion of the inauguration ceremony Stay in my privacy for me You'd better be polite to me. Otherwise, don't ask me to testify for you at the inauguration ceremony Humph You guessed it all But I'm not begging you. He's threatening you. Be obedient to me Otherwise, Tang Yu and the old woman will not survive tomorrow OK, I'll testify for you You are interesting How did it go? Does the dress I chose for my little sister-in-law still fit? This necklace is too plain today But my big day as chairperson of Down Group You have to dress smartly Don't worry. When I attend your funeral I must wear something fancy An ignorant woman Are you still confused about the situation? Now the entire Tang family is not up to me Really want to serve me well You have a bite to eat Bah Living with someone else's face You're no different than a rat in the gutter. That is also better than Tang Yu lying on the hospital bed Play the trick for me today Otherwise I will be sent to the hospital Those two burdens go to the west Scumbag, I see who is going to the west today Second Young Master, it's your turn to speak on stage After a while, I took the initiative to admit Tang Yu's death Remember? My life and my mother's life are in your hands Dare I not listen? Just remember Come come come All are welcome to attend The ceremony at which I became the chairperson of Tang Group Thank you very much. Hey, chairperson of Tang Group Isn't it Tang Yu, the eldest son of the Tang family? How did it become two young masters? It's two young masters What the hell is going on? Yeah, what's going on? My eldest brother Excuse me. He died suddenly. As a younger brother, I am deeply saddened I had no intention of competing with him for this position But now I have to stand up again He passed away. How could it be so sudden? Is it possible that someone wants to compete for Down's? Murdered Mr. Tang Mr. Tang, you must tell us the truth My brother, he was murdered. The murderer is Xia Dongyang's wife My brother's wife can testify to this Young lady Is what Mr. Hang said true? Fake my husband is not dead Ah! Master Tang is not dead What's going on? Did you say the wrong thing in your head? I'm wide awake. I have an announcement to make. My husband was murdered But the murderer is not Mrs. Xia It was him! It's actually the second young master of the Tang family true or false? See if you forgot my introduction. Try talking nonsense again Haha, sorry, everyone. My sister-in-law because My brother's death was too devastating insanity Someone send him to a mental hospital I'm not dead yet. Who dares to touch my wife? Ah! Isn't this an escape? Isn't your husband here to support you? Here we go. Big brother is great Are you okay? You played this game of chess With such a meticulous plan Now the succession ceremony of the Tang Group has been prepared How could I be absent? big brother What are you saying? What flag and what plan? But just wake up The inauguration ceremony continues I still want to be the chairperson of Tang Group Bah Brother, what are you talking about? I don't understand. You're still acting, I think you've been wearing a mask for a long time I've forgotten who I really am Qin Minglang shut up I am not Tang Yi Who can prove it? I can prove that he is not my son The old lady is here Mom, that's great. Your cerebral infarction is fine The hospital is my illness You deserve to be wild too Ah! Oh, I see. It's You You set a trap for my mother and my brother Drive them crazy Run over and talk nonsense Fart killed my son Killed so many people You can't run away today The insanity is getting worse Don't give up That heard something I'm really not Tang Yi But the mastermind of the car accident 6 years ago It's Xia Dongyang and Tang Yi What nonsense are you talking about? I'm not talking nonsense. Six years ago, Xia Dongyang and Tang Yi found me at the same time One wants to kill Qin's father and swallow the family property alone One wanted to fake death and elope with Li Waner I'm just going with the flow Replace Tang Yi and be the second young master of the Tang family he doesn't want to be It's just a recording. Can this be used as evidence? This recording is fake I am Tang Yi Still refuse to admit Qin Minglang has been pretending to be Tang Yi for a long time Do you still remember your biological mother? Please come up. clear Why didn't you go home to see your mother for so long? How did you change your face? shut up You are not my mother Don't get off the sedan chair and get out of here Your own mother doesn't recognize you, this unscrupulous thing Today I ask you to pay for my son's life God, it's really a fake From the evil young master of the Tang family to the serial murderer It's so exciting, hurry up and shoot Fake is fake No photos allowed No photos allowed That's the end of today's farce Everyone, go away Who is Qin Minglang? You are suspected of multiple murders Come with us. Hahahaha Okay, okay. You collude one by one Design a trap and give me diamonds Since you don't give me a way out Then die together So much blood How can it not hurt? If this happens again in the future Don't risk your life for me again, you know? Ten thousand more times I will still protect you Are you stupid? Are you so willing to sacrifice your life? Of course I cherish my life But until the danger comes Just found out You are more important than my life Ah! Ah! Oops, the doctor said it all Your injury is not healed Give me more rest And you read this kind of book every day Aren't you bored? I'm looking at business opportunities. No matter what you look at Can have my good-looking eyes That's not hehe Mr. Tang, this is done. Well, good news for you. Yeah, you said I was pregnant. Ah hahaha, is it? Hahaha, is Mr. Tang stupid? Hahaha, it's dinner. Tang Yue You have to finish all the soup I made for you today 100 days of broken bones I don't drink it What happened to Yimo? Are you sick? Yimo is pregnant Oh, my God. You brat Hurry up and let go of Yin Mo Don't hurt Yin Mo and the child