Thanks to NordVPN for sponsoring today's The Cassini mission to the Saturn system has the world. Not only was it a fantastic feat of engineering, it was a completely successful mission, and of space that we have ever seen. During its 13 years around Saturn, it sent more than 4,000 science papers have been published. It discovered 6 new moons. It confirmed that icy moons have subsurface be habitable. It landed a probe on Titan. It observed Saturn's peculiar storms. And during all this time, it travelled in In my opinion, and probably in the opinion missions of all time. Now, I've already covered a lot of the Cassini of you have wanted to see were the images it entered Saturn's atmosphere and disintegrated. Some of these final images are fantastic, of real-time video capture. Still, they are definitely worth having a I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching images Cassini ever took. The final phase of Cassini's mission was some of the most dangerous manoeuvres of its Mission controllers sent Cassini into an eccentric, and daringly, through gaps in the rings. The last few orbits took it closer to the giving scientists a new view and perspective The first time lapse we will look at is from the end of Cassini's mission. One of the main focuses of Cassini during the prime candidates in the solar system to Cassini discovered over 100 water plumes erupting water which freezes in the space environment Saturn. This ring is very tenuous, only visible when bluest naturally occurring object in the solar Here is a great view of Enceladus' effect see the plumes disturbing and replenishing Cassini's final look at Enceladus' plumes taken over a 14-hour period. On the 11th September, Cassini was near the this beautiful mosaic in natural light. Visible are the thickest of Saturn's rings, being cast over them. Saturn's northern hemisphere was experiencing Saturn's famous hexagon storm is visible You can also just about notice Saturn's What's really interesting about this image, dimly illuminated. This is due to light reflecting off the rings, facing the Sun don't get that dark. Below the glow of the rings, Saturn is pitch As Cassini began to approach Saturn again Saturn's atmosphere near the planet's Incredibly, because the Sun is low in the casting shadows that stretch for many kilometres. You may think this is a close-up of Saturn, 5,500km across. Saturn's moon Titan could easily fit in Cassini was getting closer and closer to Saturn. On the 13th September, it peered one last A ring in check. The gravity of Daphnis causes ripples in the notice ripples in front of the moon, as well This is due to the orbital speeds of the rings The inner ring orbits faster than Daphnis, more ring material to the moon's gravity. On the other hand, the outer ring travels behind the moon. By the time the ring material reaches Daphnis smoothed out. On the same day, Cassini had one last look It captured a view of Titan, a moon it focused world with a thick nitrogen atmosphere. It also peered at Saturn's rings, with the of the image. And as Saturn got bigger, it took one last before it disappeared from view behind the The final image Cassini ever took was looking the atmosphere. It was night-time here, and so Saturn is lit On the final day, photos were not on the science As beautiful as they are, they use up a lot to get every bit of data real time before This was a unique opportunity; we had never When Cassini first hit the tenuous parts of The remnants of Cassini's fuel were deployed aimed at Earth. At this point, Cassini was 1,900km above Saturn's A minute later, these thrusters were firing out of control. Cassini was directly sampling Saturn's atmosphere, up. Just 10 seconds later, the thrusters were off communication with Earth. Cassini's onboard computers at this point was going wrong. Gyroscopes and star trackers would tell the would have gone into a safe mode to divert A minute or so later, the spacecraft would in Saturn's atmosphere. As data started arriving 1 and a half hours was deemed to be a great success. Cassini recorded data from direct analysis dust particles in the atmosphere, from magnetic yet to be uncovered from the data. And that's the amazing thing about the Cassini Science papers and discoveries are still being and re-examined. And great news, missions to the Saturn system Titan will be getting a lander, named Dragonfly, a radioisotope thermoelectric generator, and sampling Titan's surface in various locations. So, there we have it, a look at the legacy Did you know that spacecraft use something with mission controllers on Earth? These are giant communication facilities around of Earth, spacecraft like Cassini can send You too send and receive data all the time want unscrupulous people to see, like credit This is why NordVPN may be of interest to NordVPN will provide double encryption for online while at an airport or a coffee shop NordVPN is also available throughout the world, connections, meaning that you and your family library while abroad with their unlimited that you are protected. Use the link https://nordvpn.org/astrum and and you can get 70% off their 3-year plan, If you want anymore info about NordVPN, check Thanks for watching! And a big thank you to those of you that support For those of you that are interested, Astrum Find the link in the description and use the discount until the 30th June. I hope you like it! All the best, and see you next time.