It looks fantastic. It sounds fantastic. And I dare say I think it's easy as pie. A wonderful, wonderful technique to have. Scales are the backbone of piano playing. Whether you're just starting out But let's be real. It's easy to forget The word scales itself and when I mention it to students, And yet they are, Not to worry. Today, the incredible concert pianist is here to help us remember She is going to take us on a tour scale moments in piano and she's going to offer some helpful ideas along the way for how to execute Call it cheating, if you will. I call it intelligence facilitation. All of the material you'll see today new course on Tonebase Premium, There she offers a full seven part course on all I feel that students don't And even some advanced professionals view of what technique is. This video is and that is just the tip of the iceberg. Other lessons trills, hand extensions, and much, Technique is like money. And the more of it you have, the finer you feel and the more things However, showing it off merely for its own If you're ready to take your piano be sure to check out Tonebase Premium below and getting started with a 14 day Also to find more tips on scales be sure to check out our video which has tons of exercises And don't forget to like this video It helps us out so much and interesting content from legends Now let's get to it. Obviously, it's not difficult to find scales that need attention but let's give a kind of a critical eye So we see exactly what's involved. of obviously in knowledge of E-flat in a certain rhythmic pattern, And of course, he doesn't mean for it exactly in that particular way. So you have to be comfortable these swirls around it, You, E-flat and G before, course, a lot of scales don't have so much accent A good example here is from Chopin's The real emphasis here is not on the right So you have to have great fluency and ease of motion and with great tonal emphasis that the scale And here's where it becomes important. If we're talking about practicing scales not automatically render but rather think about it musically or with some idea of articulation. I learned this also the hard way. I've learned an awful lot of things the hard way from the great pianist very first lesson with the man at a tempo that rivaled that of an SST jet or something like that. And I was very proud of myself until he said to me, Well, And then he went to the piano with a seamless, legato and gradual crescendo. It was much more beautiful And he looked at me and said... &quot;You know, I've never forgotten that lesson. Another famous excerpt here This is an issue that I myself to practice this particular etude it's the upper part of my hand, It has to be extremely loose and flexible. and I have to give almost no weight and second fingers. But now I'd also like to make a little note here on &quot;cheating&quot; or what I don't believe there is such a thing There's using your brain And when I see a piece part of I can play that with the 10th in my left to start this a tune And then it's very easy to get into it. Similarly, No, with my left left hand as well. And here I take this with the left hand here again, some more cheating involved. I never think of any of this as cheesy nor I think would Franz Liszt or Ferruccio This is unnecessary adaptation one makes I don't have Liszt's hands. I have Sara Davis Buechner's hands. And the main goal is to make the music And if I have to use my nose or my foot part of my body And I recommend this to my students I learn from my students and executions of simply because their hands So perhaps that's my philosophy but it aligns with everything that I see so many of the great pianists So there we are. So there's a very famous scalar passage and it's notated like this in a lot of notes I always recommend using that principle of a scale And I'm thinking four in the right hand, three notes in the left, and this way I can play it very rapidly, etc. But of course in the practicing you have to be very secure That relates a little bit as explained by Ignaz Friedman go topsy turvy one over the other, all those little things coming into play for a passage Another passage that comes to mind between the hands is this one from Camille Saint-Saens I'm already using my left hand here and then a long scale, which has to go very rapidly. And I've actually had conductors say to me, &quot;How many beats would you like Because they've had pianists play it with one hand, but they're very surprised when I say no. The way it's notated is perfectly fine, that's from the Scherzo movement. One very famous passage fingering is in the Rhapsodie Espagnole, I think most pianists who study this piece And I believe it was first proposed I've seen it in his edition Our exercises for very brilliant rapid scale, which consists of three parts One, two, three, four, five. Good way to practice as clumps together are e major. I remember when I was learning this piece, my preparation, my technical exercises I didn't have to learn a new technique I was really, really very, One of my favorite pieces to play is the second of the Paganini Liszt Etudes, of a whole series of places turvy at high speed, All of these passages but also slowly and quickly So it involves speed plus choreography. There are countless other examples and you can certainly find many, But think to yourself about what Do you have to share between the hands? Do you need some sort of novel fingering? What about the touch? What about the tone? It's just a huge, huge So staying on top of your scales of your piano practicing. Thank you so much for joining us today. there are a few more skills that are only available on home on how to practice scales So if you liked what you saw today, by clicking the link in the description and getting started with a 14 day Thanks so much for joining us today