All right, where the best day of the week is Alex is back modifying the chaos mod I need to get from one side of the map carrying a zombie virus vaccine, to the next, Every 30 seconds, through various phases, the game will probably just crash, He's given me a minigun, a parachute, and says I can do whatever it takes in Let's do this. I've got a regular gun, a minigun, a parachute, and every 30 seconds In the beginning here, and that's the idea. All right, so I have a, oh, Is this like a water boy? I can have a water in each hand right now. No one's murdering me, Okay, they're really starting Obviously, the very first thing to do here is to get something that will allow me to go up into the air. never mind Global Warming Phase 2 It's 200 degrees Fahrenheit outside, What happened to global warming phase one? Release of Corrosion Chemicals. I have no clue what that means. The global warming legit All right. I've had enough. What is this, alien invasion first contact? It put me into the concrete. I'm literally swimming in the concrete. Can I GTA the alien craft? You're not going to make me walk this are you Alex? Okay, so it's the chemicals again. It messes up all the vehicles. Wait, I am, Wow. I'm my own worst enemy. Makes total sense. All right. I finally found one vehicle The only problem is Rise of the apes. Oh, one of the apes is coming with me. Never mind he's gone. All right, so we have a jet. That's pretty good, now-- Wow. Oh boy. I haven't even gotten out of the base yet. This is already not very low gravity. I'll never get to land on this parachute. Oh, I love it. My parachute is like one like a jazzy power scooter. It never hits the ground. When I shoot people, Oh, when I get raged on off the ground. Anyway, we have a vehicle we're getting out of here. All right, Did you just GTA my own vehicle? Get out of-- What? Okay. The black hole escalated very quickly. So I got to tell you, not pulled this vehicle That's pretty good. it looks like I'm going Now, unfortunately, all of the seagulls by the black hole, Global Warming, phase 2. Not again. The sun collapses. Ah, so who's that? I love how we went from black holes Give me your gun. I would appreciate it if the sun comes back. All right, have, The good news is-- The good news is the sun there's an earthquake rioting and looting, into the ground so hard that it killed me. The sun collapsing just means we get melanoma a lot slower. Also over the sun collapsing Ow, are you kidding me? If I get the vaccine, to deal with a lot more competition. There's part of me that just wants to let What is this? Whoa, what happened to that car? Oh my God. I love that the zombie virus is 10 times worse than any other zombie. Oh, release of corrosion chemicals. If that just melts people around me, Corrosion chemicals, Powered by Taco Bell. I need to actually get somewhere. No, Rise of the Apes. Okay. They're rising like every couple of seconds. I love that one of the apes on the back of my motorcycle. He's like, &quot;Hey, Grey, yes, I always wanted to be a YouTuber I would shadow you for the day.&quot; There goes my little ape groupie. I haven't used the minigun yet. It's just one of those things where I felt but right now, do you know that I get to survive? The black hole is just sucking everything It looks like if you're alive, Look, the second that a zombie gets shot, they just get Dysoned Okay, we've got a truck. Oh my God, the truck was not getting like global warming, so it's still-- That's what I-- This is what I get for looking behind me. Release of corrosion chemicals has destroyed It's very interesting that it doesn't-- does not make it very easy to drive. This is where we are now. This is what I can manag Oh, we only have global warming Phase 1 This is supposed to, what is this? in my eyes right now. This is a normal day in Florida. Honestly, 200 degrees Fahrenheit is also It's just a normal day in Florida -Brainless loser. Did the one zombie just called me a brainless loser? that he's the one saying that? Oh my God, Alien invasion second contact, I have not gotten very far toward his checkpoint I think that the bicycle is probably because it can't blow up, that if the tires pop, anything happens. [laughs] Ouch. Cop, really? you guys. Oh, insane gravity. Oh, the rabbits are still alive, What happens during a solar storm Well, the solar storm moved That's not so much a storm as it is That was a really big asteroid if I hadn't totally intentionally crashed All right, so now it's low gravity. That's great. Well, there we go. We're just going to fly our way over No big deal. Watch this, sticks the landing. I need to make absolutely sure because I can't possibly avoid them. Also, I've got to kill this helicopter Oh, global warming Phase 2, Does this car have a-- Oh, the global warming took out Don't mind me, calisthenics This is an abdominal workout. Now it may look like both of my arms and are trying to strangle me to death. Well, we're both here technically. Oh, the alien cannot be killed. Global warming Phase one. You know what still works? Motorcycles. Alien invasion, second contact. Guess what? I was on a motorcycle because if there's one thing you die. One hit instant kill. Not all about that. What's the next apocalypse you got for me? We're doing really good, I've gotten toward the checkpoint Corrosive chemicals, that's okay though, I think I'm going to be all right. Don't ask me how, All the cars and stuff are exploding. Man this is why you always-- like a scotch guard on your motorcycle All right, the alien and tried to immediately crush me was take out like 10 different cars There's the arrow way over to my right. Well, the global warming Phase 1 anything in front of me, and if I touch any one of the zombies, Big jump lands on-- almost landed on the light post. asteroid shower has started now, I do have a police car, Nooo, no, he appeared out of nowhere. Oh yes. Oh, big dodge. There we go. We're going to ramp it. Look at the flip, sticks the-- I blew up [bleep] First off, I just got used It's okay though. As long as I don't touch any of the zombies, I've got like one 10th of an engine left. No, very low gravity. Well, crap, off we go. Yes. If there's one thing I love, it's having absolutely no control over I will say though, dying up here Plus I get to pot shot everyone from afar. Ah, this lovely building broke my fall. Okay, nice controlled landing. Oh, now we're into insane gravity the whole game. I've got this tour bus here. Do you notice there's still I don't know why that one car is just-- Now we have alien invasion, And very low gravity. Did that guy just-- throwing that other man? Well, technically I killed him too because the zombie blew up I am so glad Ow, hopefully that light pole broke my spine. Oh, there's something else I got to show you. Hold on. [laughs] Yes, that's right, I've got two passengers. We're all going to get to the vaccine site. Don't you worry. What's the worst that could happen? Maybe they'll run into the zombies and everyone will just blow I do also like Alex, that you've put 75 different arrows in I realize too, If you notice as I drive next to stuff, destroys everything, but if I'm in the thing at the time, As long as I'm inside of a vehicle, I can completely negate so that's good, right? He got Insta owned. Well, thanks for hitting me with that explosive zombie because of it. looking for any type of vehicle Oh my God. Oh boy. No. Stop. Stop it. Stop it. What happened to the alien? Do he just get blown up by a zombie? This is a great day. That's very lucky of me. This is also the absolute longest This is a really good run. Solar storm. Okay. Oh, the solar storm blows up Can you hear it? Can you just hear everything exploding? We do have rise of the apes, The car is a nice protective thing I also have to keep this gun ready I have to make sure I take them out. In order to survive. I had to dive off this bridge over here. My car was on fire. The tires were melted. There's zombies everywhere. Unfortunately, I had to leave which I do feel bad about. To be fair, and he has been trying to cut my head off. Oh boy. Oh yes. I'm just making a little extra money while I'm trying All right, we've got rioting and looting. [gunshots] All right. I didn't know that. I didn't know that everyone in the square, was going to try and murder me Zombie is still here? I need to get out of this car. Well maybe I could survive this Okay, I'm inside. There's rise of the apes, just standing there not doing anything. He's just chilling out though. I don't know how him and I but I'm not going to question it. I'm not going to lie, the end of the world I feel like I've gotten pretty good at it. No survivors. He could have been innocent, because I don't feel Oh, here's the teleporter. That's where I need to get to. That's how I save the planet I think. It's also possible that I am not dealing with you helicopter. Yes, that means that we have a winner. Oh, I did it. The chaos mod turned off and everything. Well, the world ended a lot and I enjoyed it. Anyway folks, this was an episode of GTA, Stay foxy. Much love.