melodic acoustic guitar [waves gently crashing] -Good afternoon, guys. Today we're starting on a journey. A journey of understanding So this is our first reservation The Flathead Reservation, it starts Pushes far south Home to the Salish and the Kootenai people. Today we have the great privilege who said they'd bring us in life on the reservation, Let's do this. melodic acoustic guitar [door opens] All right, so technically we are on Flathead Reservation. So not at all what I'd expect. I've only been on a few reservations So we're getting into [music continues] -So there's a lot more over there. PETER: So that's a full bison range? -That's the bison range. It was like a... -Yeah, it used to be and before transfer over to it was managed under There's a long history Just because the bison that were on there and they forced the bison to Canada and so bringing the bison back home PETER: 1491 Warrior? -Yeah this is uh, fourteen-ninety... This is Native's clothing. On the back it has Tribes throughout Turtle Island. It just kind of like represents, We're not fighting with we're, you know, trying to utilize Trying to do this in a meaningful way. PATRICK: The whole reason is because they were trying PETER: Hmm. Their whole mission was to try to These were all just like... ...protections and promises that were made and the Flathead Reservation And in the original signing of the treaty it was not just the Salish There were other tribes on that treaty, the original treaty. And so this was a place native tribes as an Indian country. PETER: You're Blackfeet? -That's where you're originally from? -But even within Blackfeet -Different bands. -Yeah, I'm Skapi Piikuni Band I am also Kootenai that are from here in United States with Ksanka, which is ...the'd kill, they would and then they would ...when they would hunt or in battle. PATRICK: So traditional tribes, The Selis, they have So these are the letters they use. PETER: So it all falls under All these groups come in... within itself, it was something that... -First settlers came over. They described the tribal people and that's what they use it, -Okay, so don't say that? -I mean it's the reservation. It's, like, literally Since colonialism began... -The misinterpretations -Mm-hmm. -That all plays part to, and so it's really, you know, We do have names for ourselves. For myself, it's the Zuni Pueblo tribe. but we call ourselves the Ashiwi or in Turtle Mountains, the French but we were the Anishinaabe. PATRICK: Grew up, they were &quot;You have to walk two paths.&quot; You know, this American way or the Native way and it's like to walk two paths We read books about Native warriors but we are history in the making right now. -Hmm. -And so we have to use These systematic ills and it's not just like getting a job that you're gonna pay for It's like it's &quot;How can you play part You know, and it takes it takes everybody pitching in or Turtle Island better for the future. PETER: And then you have the dam here. That's what we're seeing, right? and there the river goes. So this is a super important In this part of the country, in Montana or? Well the Flathead Lake Used to be very spiritual -Is it still? -It was basically called the place It was kind of like a falls. The Kootenai people would come There were tribal members and other families and seeing the whole construction I'm originally from Born and raised The dam was really something growing up that because they were that one day this reservation and that if he wanted to that we should live here, So we native people They are wanting to own homes. They're wanting to bring back What their parents &quot;You go off, go to school, come back -So is that how it is mostly? You grow up and if you have &quot;Take off, go to school, or it depends on the person? -Well like as far as education is now just recently I'm one of the first generation One of five high school graduates. One of three college grad... -Was it your parents that pushed that -My parents but also just growing and kind of realizing that Especially on the reservation. PETER: Every tribe feels like a country? -They're a nation, yeah. -Every treaty is an agreement The treaty would be through that the United States -Okay, so Blackfeet, is another nation basically? -Yeah, they would consider themselves -How are the relations between -Tsk, um, it wasn't always, Blackfeet tribe were considered We had the neighboring tribes which were on but they had to come in The Blackfeet were very territorial and so the people had to form alliances And they weren't always but through time and modernization relationships are starting to improve. They're relying on one another and hopefully within food sovereignty -This tribe has done a lot of firsts Like the dam, or the casinos and things like that. These are all their self-determination Which opens up doors, opens up jobs. -Why do you think it's, say, -Well, I mean there's relationships there With outsiders, It's not just economic success and what could be considered as valuable. You know, in comparison to cultural retention is important and that's something -Mm-hmm. -And the tribes are working really hard They have a language immersion school And so you have really young kids Much more proficient at it -Oh. -And there's these really strong attempts from the elders that are still here and it's been pretty well documented, There's always these tribes with the federal government You can look at the Cherokee Tribe. There's a long history or them forcing us to become Americans or us trying to relate in a way to become, Whether it be the boarding school trying or tribal people joining the military to get that type of status as an American. -To appear American to their counterparts. -Okay. So the boarding schools Mostly '30s, '40s? -It was from -Okay. -To the '60s, '70s. -There's still boarding schools now still. -There's still some exist here The way they're managed, there's tribal-management, -So here's what's been confusing for me Because I understand the boarding schools, It was forced on the people, right? -It was introduced here. Like it was an attempt to kind of like... It was an attempt to that were existing at the time and so the Jesuits were introduced here. They were invited here. -So... but some natives, some aren't religious So it just depends on the person, right? -Yeah, it really depends on the person, -How they were treated Some have good stories and some have... You know, most of 'em So it's like my grandma, she didn't... Wasn't like... She never experienced that a lot of people did There was a lot of death that happened. And it's all about This was like the most beautiful place the water, the land, -Mm-hmm. -There's always been attempts and not only that a southern Flathead Reservation. Where Missoula and Stevensville was. -But there was a failure to do &quot;Yeah, this land This attempt came at the Homesteading Act that opened up reservations -Homesteaders were anyone from the country -Yeah, they could go, and claim it, and even get money for it -Okay. -Basically, the federal government Had surplus lands on it. PETER: Driving up here you see You see fields. You were saying the Homestead Act came in. So there are certain chunks of land Or they could? -Homesteading was just the door opener. -It was actually that was signed a few years... That essentially -Was that by design? -Yeah, it was totally by design. Trying to create this idea that these lands aren't meant to be owned That they're supposed to be individual. Yeah, try to create more selfishness That it's not... and people had to have plots of land They would put a non-Indian That non-Indian would be a Christian farmer and that was intended to teach They would give lands to dogs, right? Like a dog. And then they would They would sell it to a child and because they weren't fit to manage PETER: The reservations were formed. There was this Swiss cheese effect where they were taking parcels That's been done. Now at this very moment, 2022. I would think that Like no more land is being taken away or is stuff being sold off that was native land? -You know, there's a program that allows either tribal land owners sell their lands to the tribe, if they're willing to sell their land or whatever, put it into trusts. They have that opportunity. But the history of those ranchers should be a tradition that Their children But that isn't the case, you know? The case is a lot of people are moving. A lot of the younger to go to college or moving to the city and that tradition of taking ownership of their family's plot of land So there's a lot of sales going on. A lot of parceling out to create housing districts -And that can be sold -Yeah, and because of the housing crisis the price of housing Rentals have gone up. A lot of Natives, a lot of people I know because of the price increase of rentals. -So you're really feeling it out here? And yeah, with the influx It's put a big burden -People coming from the cities? Escaping climate change, escaping I mean this is It's like everything here is like, -It's so beautiful. [woman's voice] Hi. -Don't mean to interrupt. -Are you filming me? -If you don't want to, I don't have to. [all chuckling] This is my first time here it starts to trip your eyes out. [all chuckling] -Be careful. -Thank you, have a wonderful time. PETER: I'm just making a video on the area. -Yeah, now you're in it, -Yeah, I'm cool with that. PATRICK: You didn't even try TERESE: Yeah, woo, PETER: Terese, do you live here? -Yeah, kind of, sort of, I've been here Something like that. -What do you think of the area? -It's amazing? There's nothing better than this, How can you get any better? I've been trying to get into here and it's been impossible and I seen it was open last night, and then I hurried up in here, So the sun was going down and I'm like, [all laughing] -Oh my God, but what a cool place -Yeah. -Awesome, you guys have a wonderful day. -God Bless. -So how is that when you see on the land here, how does that feel? In a reservation, But in this reservation And so I mean that's how I feel here. Regina, how do you feel? -Um, I feel that, um, who do not like, um, Even within the realms of just being Especially over the past few years. There have been an increase, and they've been leaving their garbage. And it's been out-of-staters as well and they'll leave tents, coolers, chairs. -Like it's cheaper for them then just pack everything up -And then also in the spring time we have people that come into our but they use these rakes and they over pick certain areas. -So that just brings friction between -Yeah, for sure, for sure. [dogs barking] -Doggy day care. -It's... PETER: Res-life? PATRICK: We don't have alarm systems, -How may natives on this reservation -Tribal members are like 5,600 to 6,800. -Okay. -But there's a lot of big gray area who come from all around the nation and Canada, and the world -SKC? -Okay. -And meet locals, have families, get jobs. -That's how you met? -Yeah, and get jobs... PATRICK: This is our garden bed project or purchased wood and then deliver They get the frame, they get dirt, And then we have a tips and tricks videos, things like that When we are talking about the ills it's about these historical traumas and the effects and this is something as a way for us to get our hands dirty. Get the hands in the dirt and kind of heal Depression and suicide and this is some way for people to exercise and have an outlet essentially. -So anyone that wants you and your organization will come out -Yep, deliver all the stuff and install it. That's great, are they interested? Have you seen a lot of interest or? -Our first year was 50 beds So it's really weighing out. Kind of like the difference between and trying to start this revolution for our organization. PETER: What would you say that other people maybe -I would say that people don't even know and that that's just a lack of education, lack of awareness. I always make a joke that there's nobody And so it's really like if we're really there's this whole story about We see it, you know? We see a lot of communities, Renaming landmarks, bodies of water, These are all important steps between tribal people -What we need Getting a piece of land -Do you two own land? And you want to own land? -Mm-hmm. So it's really difficult? -Okay, sohow does that make you feel people from the outside -Tsk, um... I feel like... we can own land too. We just... Our people... Um, you know... It's all about learning the process, Knowing that, you know, owning... Owning land, That is... Something you should do. Um... Some people don't have and once I feel like you have you can self-sustain. Self-sustain, take care of yourself. Even if you have more than enough, -There are programs that exist and so that's all about how to utilize that education and not all not all Native Americans know how to go about the process, -Is it a long process and then eventually it happens or? -We gotta compete against other... We're a non-profit so I mean we're We're also competing against non-Indians So there's competition in it and that all breaks down to, or is there more sustainable at solving our issues locally? -Are you gonna enter one of these programs -Yeah, it's been... Our organization's been in operation, So it's like... -The name of your organization? -Our organization is And so we created this program Like wild meat or wild game 'Cause we see where they're coming from. We see the world they're living in, the lack of access they have lack of access A lot of the towns in this area rely on corn markets or gas stations, The lack of nutrition in those places and our historical traumas, the depression that's what we understand. Is the food that we've eaten before the influx of processed foods, and things like that, We were fit. We were chasing our game. Distributing it to people who are in need. The elders, the children, the people and that was just There wasn't anything that was fueled It was just what happened and what was and so when we know about it still exercising those activities hundreds of years ago, two hundreds, That we're trying to bring that back. Trying to bring That understanding that these meant for our bodies and bringing those -I'm gonna leave a link Guys, it will be down below and I just want to thank you both I gotta say it's not an easy thing Um... I've talked to all sorts of people and you two trusted me with the camera So I really appreciate it from the locals, from the natives. -Mm-hmm. -And this is just the start. I'm past maybe kindergarten at this point. Next video is first grade. -Pre-school maybe. -Pre-school, yeah. -You still gotta take your naps -Awesome. All right, guys, and I know this is It's the first tribe in the lower 48. The first reservation And most of you are too. There's a lot to understand here. It's like an onion and there's Just as Regina said, &quot;We look at ourselves as nations.&quot; So each... Each people are like So that'd be like being in Europe and looking at But as we, from the outside, So I think every reservation and tribe is gonna have similarities and I'm sure, some big differences. So much more to come. Thanks for coming along. Until the next one. melodic acoustic guitar