A wise old man once said: &quot;the That wise old man? I've tried every design program ever made and I'm tired in general. my graphic design skills extend far beyond designing in the most wicked programs that And I'm sure it'll hardly be a challenge as like uh Fortnite... OHHHH! sponsored by Squarespace, more on that later. It's a free-to-play battle royale game I like Fortnite! and doing my silly dances after shooting someone. for creators who want to make parkour maps, I don't know if that last one is real I played that one you know nothing about me- The library of building blocks is made fortnite I could use it in my design. There was however a gallery of blank shapes and a I didn't mean to do that. We will be attempting the humble business card. The Base: a 2x3.5 ratio rectangle in a subtle The Text: six lines of text in awkward but cool spacing. Why six lines? And finally, The Elliot: my name typed Type with the &quot;O&quot; replaced by my in with whatever I want. One of the hardest parts of this challenge I think in this one I ended up going with a 20 work with and Fortnite has one of the worst Oh my God... Oh my God! more blocks to make up the main text, very name and then created a shape that could be I got the numbers wrong and ended up with only 10 I then filled it in with Yeah sometimes I just have to stop and wonder how I had two options for the corner text: lines that would suggest text or placing each individual letter until Which one did you think I did? Which No why did I write elliotisaguy! game at the end of the day but I can now confirm I'm gonna consider this one to Google Docs is not a graphic design program. I've always been a Microsoft Word guy personally real reason than I can think of right now. writing experience. There's not too much here Google Slides that's for sure, but once I figured started to believe. The top text was easy with can recreate the grid in really any program. For my name I used a font called Anton that below each character meaning I couldn't You also can't make a custom size page so I will never understand the The star was actually super easy to make. quite deep and I nailed the star. I filled it in with some scribbles as that's It's definitely a Google Doc but You could print this out and give it much of it Ikea Kitchen Planner is not It's a kitchen planner, so you can plan Something I'm sure all of us graphic I was very pleased to see that the default light wood perfectly matching my E9E3D3 If this kitchen were real it would be I think it ended up being about 10x18 meters which Can you imagine how many Wow! The specific cabinet in question is called &quot;Box My star is made up of 17 poorly This is as good as it was gonna get. Kungsfors suspension rail with wall There are so many of them it almost I think this really works as a kitchen! I can see myself cooking up a mean omelet in here. it could work as a pan. 7583 Australian dollars to make. Call of Duty Emblem Maker is It's an emblem maker for the game Call of Duty. Black Ops 1 for a while when I was just a young I have a vivid memory of using this exact tutorial used yellow as the accent color. Of the future? Ops for this video so I instead used this faithful Now that's what I call a Victory Royale! Now that's what I call a vic- bit I could tell there was potential for design, a business card and the ability to rotate. I used some random shapes and Also the word elite kind of looks like My star was the most fun to make: I used a yellow and rotate it 11 times centered around a I had to be careful too, the emblem maker incredibly generous honestly that allows And after filling in the star with some kind of abstract gradient the design was done. I just want to make young Elliot proud. It's a website making website! Squarespace's innovative tool set so I was graphic design in their innovative platform. beautifully designed templates and then I then picked out my font from the some text boxes to make my top lines of text. rectangle built using the shape tool and Squarespace's revolutionary fluid engine was an and drop all my assets around in my composition It's almost like this platform Who would have thought? with a few shapes to try and replicate my star star shape that fit the design perfectly. effects and duplicated and overlaid it a few times wanted to I could even add my print store to this right now in the platform, and even password exclusive access to this beauty. The final touch was adding some &quot;use code elliotisacoolguy to save 10% off that's funny hey maybe you should click the Thanks Squarespace for the sick deal! Adobe Premiere Pro is not It's a front for a real design program: There are three features hidden within Each asset you drag into the You can change the color of the blocks by choosing inbuilt label colors to any color you can imagine. and by using the razor tool you can essentially Finally you can turn off any visual descriptors previews to create a 100% pure pixel experience. a pixel art program. And as long as you're willing time chopping up different clips to create a This is the timeline for the very My rectangular name was a breeze to make all the small text up the top but How do I make an 11 pointed star in this? overlay a reference image over the top of another I then did my best to follow the cuts and I think it turned out okay. today and by far my favorite design of the group. in every program video telling The Sims 4 is not a graphic design program a game you've probably heard- impressed with its interior design capabilities. a beautiful New York City loft apartment while my I don't know why... I decided a bird's eye view of a furnished You can't just start putting furniture I've just met someone new I'll impress there we go turtlenecks- ah but we can probably just wear Let's goooo! started I paused the in-game clock and Thank you Panda Elliot. I used a light wood flooring to create the base Elliot letters and rather than just using dark furniture to construct the letters and chose to The E is the couch room, The I is tables Find one person on YouTube doing There was no way I'd make the top text so I to fill the space as well as create some sense The star was the final touch and ended up Absolute stroke of genius. Please observe my finished The sun moves in the world You can even see Panda Elliot scaring away Womp is not a graphic design program. free 3D software. months ago and I really do like it quite a bit. months so it's always nice to see if those I love 3D design I hope we get married one- The Elliot was super easy to construct. them into the general shapes of the letters while This was actually the last program I used I was losing my patience at this point very fair and perfectly reasonable. it's basically like 11 teardrop shapes rotated had three editable points that could change color Every single time I changed the that's that's that was my bad. a 3D space is a lot of fun and here's my up a 3D software if you're keen on learning one. love that I know how to use it and I don't even But I want to. like getting Jamie to The iPhone Notes app is not It's where I keep all my YouTube video ideas. is the size of your phone. entire canvas as you can't really zoom in Your finger is also your mouse and that sucks. How am I meant to see what's under How? Now I assumed that I'd be drawing most of this cheeky little plus icon on the right side of the I'm talking text boxes, I'm talking text boxes. up my rectangle background and main text with Adobe Express or Canva. The star was next and would you a star with adjustable points. change how many points a star has For an app that misses so much I just to go all out on the star. I ended up finishing with these funny little of look like the original gradient. Beard hair is not a graphic design program. saw this one and laughed it off assuming it was but then I got a second message This is an optional part of the video, I didn't shave for a month to get my And after shaving I had a very gently rested on a paper towel in a pyrex bowl. of me doing it because I formatted my SD card for All good. hair on the bowl- on the board- the white chopping I would like spread it around like this line it up you know into the spots... so you know that I did do It's disgusting. It's evil. that make me pray that none of my - You can bleep anything out So have you ever used Photoshop before? - Have you done any graphic design before? - Would you consider yourself a a - Myself or- - Okay - Tap it yeah you can just drag it up like that - And then just press enter to lock that in - Unreal - Yeah so - Great there we go awesome I was thinking of like a nice little heart - That's pretty cool - Oh there it is!- Oh! Yeah that's not bad - How good does that look? - It does! This is fun. right so something- - Awww - Great and then I think you're done! - I'm quite happy with that - Should we check now to see if I've got the dent? - I don't think we'll be able - It's just Lewis Animal Crossing New Horizons is not a haven't played in two years. One of my one. People really resonated with the love pets? animals? pets? But I never actually today. I was keen on going on a trip down so much time on but I quickly remembered I my love for the game and then played for a I don't know who that is. Interesting room in here... Audie wants to move just as I say Are you serious? Please don't be cringe But [ __ ] those guys. It's time to design! You can make patterns and custom People usually make nice clothes or mossy I originally intended on doing this with the seamlessly join them when placing them to split it over like eight! I refused to use any online tool that might be I put in the hard yards so I can get the big your feet let's do our national anthem- split it into eight 30 by 30 pixel squares and There was a lot of counting and a lot of trial I am so glad the tiles are seamless. Clone Elliot is not a graphic Hang on! I didn't write this- oh, my last video described by some commenters Did you want to be in the video? have a lot of ideas and want to contribute haha I never taught you how to design When the sands of time tick by in the - No I'm not doing this Wow! Anything is possible through the What an amazing world we live in, where convince your mom to be in a YouTube video, and design with beard hair! I'm gonna extend that quote I The tool does not maketh the Wow! That's incredible! I just I think I blacked out writing most of this- your suggestions in the comments baby and I'll I've already got like 40 on my list including I need more! I go goo goo gaga for this [ __ ] everyone I have had so much fun making this Oh no I think my cake is burning in the oven! you can put do any you can do anything you set All right guys, see ya! cake thing is I'm meant to go over to the the cake is the design, and that's the final cannot find the energy in me to do that. I'm done with this video and it needs to But you know all good things come in threes so I will I'm sure I'm sure we'll get around to Please enjoy the rest of