- My negotiation background really started even before I became an because I needed to get some training. And that training was really on a suicide hotline. Really learning about and what drives people, and in a way that calms people down, makes people make decisions. - 'Gunmen burst into in Park Slope this morning. And ever since negotiators to get them to give up.' - 'Hostage negotiators and talk to the gunman.' - 'Billy, we're on the same page.' - 'What persuaded the gunman finally to come out? - I think it was excellent - People in intense situations aren't changing their patterns. They're still working in the same way that they would under less they're still making the same decisions. So if you take hostage negotiation skills, which are navigating human emotions, and you put them in the middle of business and personal negotiations, you've actually got a through business negotiations, and personal and everyday If you think that successful because of logic or arguments you're losing money- you're leaving millions And over the course of a lifetime, that could be true for everybody. Tactically, emotional is the way you make great deals, and the way you have great And sometimes they miss that the problem is a And that's why, oftentimes, as conflict and actually Negotiation is really about what people are making decisions based on what they care about, Every decision you make, you make based on what you care about, which that makes decision-making First of all, understanding where the other side's coming from and then being able to in a way that they signal to Understand and demonstrate There are a lot of negotiators that really will give in on a deal because being understood is more important than getting what they want. So once we completely understand where somebody's coming from, we get a much better feel about things, how that drives them- and then how we can that are driving them. The reasons you won't more important than the There's Nobel Prize-winning that says that people on at least twice what So losing $5 stings at least Losing $5 feels like it's just a ridiculous skewing So knowing that fear of to drive someone's decision-making tactically, I want to diffuse those fears. I want to get them out of and I want to get them open frame of mind as quickly as I can, which is why, tactically and empathy, I wanna address their fears first. Well, labeling is the best way In its strictest form, it's &quot;it seems like, it sounds putting a label on the dynamic. And science is showing us now, it diminishes it. I'll actually say to &quot;Look, this is gonna sound really harsh, and there's a really good chance that when I get done you're not gonna like me at all.&quot; And then I'll say what I have to say, and they'll say, &quot;Wow, So I know I can take a to negative thinking because to decision-making in business. The type of listening-I is really kind of beyond We even sort of refer to it because we're listening very We're listening for different aspects of what people care about, at the same time. People will reveal the either between the lines, a and in also in every positive every negative, there's If I make it a point of talking then if you're making then you've been betrayed in the past, that's been a problem for you in the past. There's a yin and yang to everything. And as soon as you realize that, that there's a negative to every positive and a positive to every negative, and you're listening for how you want to guide a discussion knowing that those are the things I remember one time I was on the phone with a customer service airlines person, and that's gotta be a tough job because those people get yelled Nobody calls customer service And this woman was one of those women that she clearly she'd been yelled at 50 times during the day, and she was not interested with me a moment longer than she had to. And I remember when I was off the phone and she had me on hold, I remember saying, &quot;You know, I guarantee you this she's saying to her colleagues, 'You know, this guy's lucky I'm talking to him on a phone at all!'&quot; So I was thinking about and then I was about the flip side. Well in her view, if she to her on the phone, then the flip side of that is in her mind and her world. She came back on the &quot;You know what? I really appreciate how with your time.&quot; And I could tell immediately She put me back on hold for about a minute and a half after that. And when she came back on the phone, she'd given me a full refund on my ticket. Most people, if you're nice to them, can help you by doing a little bit if you give them a chance. If you're just nice to people, it's amazing what they'll do for you. - That's awesome. - Thank you. - Get smarter, faster with videos from the And to learn even more from Get Big Think+ for your business.