Yes, so you already have international flights and you have a lot of doubts in your mind as to how much luggage is allowed, what luggage to put in check-in, what luggage to put in hand baggage, how many hours before you have to reach the airport, how to catch connecting flights and what questions you have to ask the immigration officers and in case your luggage gets lost from the airline, what steps you have to take. So in this video, I will try to answer all your questions so that your first flight experience is smooth as butter. So let's start the video. Hello, welcome to the Punjabi Wanderers YouTube channel and if you are watching me for the first time and you are wondering why I am sharing unwanted wisdom, then let me tell you that I have been to 20 countries and I have a lot of international flights experience. So I have seen it many times at airports, a lot of people ask me what to do, where to go, what to do. So there are a lot of people who are confused. I thought why not make a video. Obviously, the person who has never been to an international flight, the first time is always very confusing. The person is very nervous. I thought let's make a video so that I can tell you what I have seen, what I have learned in so many years of travel. So let's start the video. This video is sponsored by Transport Go. Yes, so I have made all the notes so that I don't miss any point. So first of all, let's talk about luggage. So we have booked all our flights and we have to pack our luggage. Which is written on the airline ticket that how much hand baggage is allowed and how much checking baggage is allowed, which is commonly 7 kg hand baggage and 21 kg is your checking baggage. If you want to take extra luggage, you will have to book it at the time of the ticket or you can add on later that I have to take so much more luggage, so you have to pay extra baggage first. If you go there at the end of the day, it will cost you a lot of money, so it is better to pay an extra baggage fee and book your ticket for an extra baggage. Now comes the question of what luggage to put in, so the checking baggage limit is 21 kg, so you can fill your luggage in it, whatever you want to fill, but pay attention to one thing that you do not keep your laptop, cameras, batteries, chargers, etc. in it. Because the thing that has battery is not allowed in the checking baggage. If you put it in it, then when your bag will be checked, you will open it, take out your battery and throw it there and leave your bag there. So always keep your batteries, power banks, cameras, lockpups in your hand baggage. So your luggage is done, how many hours do you have to reach the airport before your flight? Generally, it is written that the check-in closes 2 hours before the flight, but you have to reach the airport 3 hours before. Because these days, the airport is so crowded that it feels like we are in a bus stand, so my experience is that it is from Delhi Airport, Indira Gandhi International Airport and it is very crowded. So it is better if you reach the airport 3 hours before. Now after reaching the airport, you need a ticket and passport. If you do not have a printout, then it will be fine. You can show your e-ticket in your phone. So there are a lot of gates on the departure. You don't have to worry about who you have to go to those gates. There are big boards on which it is written that this is your flight and from this gate you can go inside. But there is no such issue. You can go to any gate. The guard standing there will tell you to go to gate 4 or gate 5. So you don't have to worry about that. Now when you enter the airport, there will be a lot of counters in front of you. Now you have to check which airline's flight is written on your ticket. So you have to go to the airline's counter. There are big boards on which you have to go. So there will be a lot of counters. On those counters, there is a display board that says that now checking in for this flight. So your flight number will be written on your ticket. For example, SJ456. So your flight number will be displayed that now we are accepting the check-in for this flight. It is not like you have to go to any counter. The counter on which the display is installed, the check-in for this flight is happening here. Now there are two ways to check-in. One is web check-in and the other is physical check-in. You book your seat and check-in. That check-in opens a few hours before your flight. But this is your first time experience so don't confuse yourself. You go there quietly. It is on the line. You go to the counter and give them your ticket and passport. They will check the budget of your bag. If it is more, they will tell you that this is your extra luggage. You have to pay. You have to pay. As you can see, it works a little bit. Like the price of a kiss will work. It will be around 250,000 rupees. That's it. Let's accept it. Now they will give you a boarding pass. Your luggage sticker will be attached to the boarding pass. So keep in mind that this is a very important thing which is the luggage sticker. Why is it important? We will come to that at the end of the video. Because it happened to me in Iceland. I landed there and my luggage disappeared. So this sticker, the luggage sticker that is attached to the boarding pass is very important. Keep this in mind. Also, generally when you are going abroad or going to Europe, you don't have a direct flight. Direct flight is very expensive. So it is always a connecting flight. Like from Dubai to Europe. Or if you want to go to Amsterdam in Europe, then you have to take a flight from Finland to Helsinki. From there you will go to Amsterdam. So you will get two boarding passes or three boarding passes. Once your luggage is checked in, you will get it at the end, which is your end destination. So you will get two or three boarding passes. You will get all the boarding passes together. Your boarding pass is done, your luggage sticker is done, your luggage is checked in. Now let's move forward. So now let's come to the security check. In the security check, your hand baggage will be checked completely. Make sure that there are no liquids in your bag. If there is no water in your bag, then drink it first. Otherwise, you will have to stand there and drink it. Or first go to the toilet or washroom and pour more water than before. Whatever liquids you have, more than 100 ml. No liquid will allow you. When you go there for the security check, you will put it in the line first, in the starting. First the guard will stand there. He will check your ticket. Okay, brother, your flight is fine. Then you will go inside. There are a lot of trays outside the machines in which the luggage is checked. So you have to go there and take out your camera, laptop, batteries, power banks, phone, watch, belt, any metallic stuff. Even jacket, sweater, whatever it is, you have to take it all out and keep it in that tray. You have a lot of stuff. Like I always have. I have so many cameras. I take 2-3 trays. One tray for jacket, one for phone, one for wallet and one tray for my cameras. You will have your boarding pass and passport in your hand. That's it. Now you will take that and go ahead. There will be a line again. They will call you. It is written that you have to stand behind the yellow line. There will be lines. They will call you at 12 o'clock. Then you go there. The security guard there will check you. He will ask you to raise your hand and then he will check you. And then he will stamp your boarding pass that okay, his security check is done. Okay, so after this comes our immigration. What happens on immigration is that there is a line again. There are many such counters on immigration. They call you repeatedly. You go. They will check your passport. And they will check where the flight ticket is from. They will ask you simple things like where are you going? Why are you going? And you can talk to them in your own way. You can talk in Hindi. You can talk in Pithavi. You can talk in your own way. They casually ask you that where are you going? Why are you going? And what is your destination? And they also take your photo. If you have a camera with you, they take your photo. So it's chill. It's not like they will send you back from there. Okay, don't worry. There are a lot of casual things there. Okay, so now you have your boarding pass. Your security stamp is also on it. And on that boarding pass, your flight number, boarding gate, boarding time, everything will be written. Okay, so boarding gates here at international airports are very far away. Because the airport is very big. So the gates are very far away. So make sure that you reach the gate a little before the boarding time. Don't go there for shopping and shopping. Okay, because there are a lot of duty-free goods on the way. Resist and reach your gate on time. And when you reach the gate, there are also screens there. Okay, now we are starting boarding for this flight. So everyone will easily hear that the boarding has started. So get on your line and board. Go to your seat number that is written on the boarding pass and sit there. Even if you don't, the air officer will give you a ticket. You have already boarded the flight. And your flight is going to Europe. For example, there is a flight from Finland. Your end destination is Amsterdam or Prague. But if there is a flight from Finland, it will be from Helsinki. So your flight landed in Helsinki. When you get out of the flight, there will be two boards on the top. One will say transfers and the other will say arrivals. So if you have to go out to the same destination, then you will take the arrival route. Otherwise, you will take the transfer route. You have already entered the Schengen area. Because Finland is also in the Schengen area. So the stamp on your passport will be here. So what happens for that is that when you go, you will be going on the same route. If you go in front, there will be two different counters. There will be two different areas. One is for Schengen passports and the other is for non-Schengen passports. Obviously, if you have an Indian passport, then you will go to the non-Schengen passport. There will be many counters there. You will go there and give your passport. You can ask yourself some questions. Where do you want to go? What is your finalization? What are you here to do? Because they will only know English. So if you don't know English, then there is an issue. Try to know a little English so that you can keep your words. Okay, I have to go here and it is like this. Now your passport is stamped here. Now you go ahead. Now if you go ahead, then you have to see on your other boarding pass. What is the boarding time of your flight and which is the boarding gate. But here one catch is that the boarding time is written as local time. Now you have reached Finland from India. The time of the flight on the boarding pass is the time of Finland. It is not the time of India. And your phone, your watch will be on the time of India. And because your network will not be there on your phone, then your watch will not be set on your phone. Wi-Fi does not work either. Many times it happens that Wi-Fi works, but to log in to the Wi-Fi app, they ask for the number to send you the OTP. If that is not possible for us, then Wi-Fi will not work either. In less cases, Wi-Fi works. So you try to find a watch there. And match the time of your watch with that watch. And the time of your flight will be your Finland time. Because it is a 2-3 hour difference between Europe and India. Like it applies to everywhere. If you are going somewhere, then make sure that the time written on the boarding pass is your local time of that place. It is not the time of India. So make sure that the flight is missed. You will not get your luggage here. The luggage that you checked in, has been checked in once. You will get it at your destination. And when your hand baggage is there, it can be checked here again. So you have to do the same again. You have to remove your belt, jacket, jacket, cameras. You have to do all that again. Now you have connected your flight schedule. And after that you go to your destination. I have changed my flight 3 times. So because of that, my baggage was missed once. So what happens is, when your flight lands, they announce in your flight that your luggage will arrive at your belt number. So when you reach your destination, you have found your belt number. And then you go and stand there. Now you are standing on the belt. It is written on it that the luggage of this flight is coming on this belt. So you waited for 10-15 minutes for your luggage to arrive. But it is also possible that your luggage did not arrive. It has happened to me twice. It has happened to me twice. Once in Iceland and once in Delhi. So what you have to do in this case, if your luggage does not arrive, you have to go and report to the local desk of the airline. That my luggage has arrived and my luggage has not arrived. So they will check if all the luggage has left or not. And generally they know that if any luggage is left somewhere, like what happened to me in Iceland, my flight was going to Helsinki. And from Helsinki to Copenhagen and from Copenhagen to Reykjavik. So my luggage was left in Copenhagen. So they knew that the luggage of the people who came from India, 3-4, their luggage is left in Copenhagen. And this luggage will arrive in our next flight. It will arrive tomorrow. Whatever their arrangement will be. So you have to report to them that my luggage has not arrived. They will get you signed on a document. That this was your luggage. Your bag was of this color. It was such a big bag. What was in it? Then you have to write that my clothes were in it. The bag was black color. Whatever you have to sign and give them. And you have to give them your local address. Like whenever you are going anywhere, then obviously you will have some initial booking. You will have a hotel or hostel. These will be your relatives. So you have to give them that I have stopped at this address. You send me this bag at this address tomorrow. So what happened to me was that they did give me a kit. There was a brush, a shaving kit and all this stuff. And then they told me if you need anything, whatever you want, it was in your bag. You don't have it. That bag is ours. So if you need anything, you can buy it. And we will reimburse. So I was in Iceland. I didn't have a jacket. And it was so cold there. So I went and bought a jacket, a sweater, gloves, socks and a hat. And my bill was 10-12 thousand. And they reimbursed it. They didn't ask any questions. They just asked me for a bill. I gave them the bill and all my money was reimbursed. So many people do this too. Even if they have a jacket, they don't buy it. They just have to be reimbursed. But if your flight doesn't reimburse this airline, then your travel insurance has a baggage delay and the baggage missing is compensated. So you can claim that from your insurance as well. You have reached a new country. Go there and enjoy. And I hope you found this video helpful. If you found it helpful, please like, comment and share it with someone who is going somewhere for the first time and feeling nervous. And make sure you are subscribed to the channel. Press the bell icon. And you can follow me on Instagram too at reddb. And I will see you in the next video. Goodbye.