If there's one thing that you should know about Let's talk about competitive programming. topic that has been requested ever since I though, I haven't partaken in competitive myself to be particularly qualified to cover this if you are good at competitive programming, I have different from the programming done in software unlike in software engineering, there is a way to niche problems with a text input and an expected exact. For the problem &quot;A Plus B&quot;, the automatic to output a plus b. The test cases could result the sound you make when you fail and AC which ccepted. There's also time limit, memory limit, what are you doing, etc. This of the most popular online judges is the Russian a VPN to change my location to the Netherlands. from what I believe to be accidental server statement out of the variety of statements Another online judge that exists is called Judge. From here, you can already start to Codeforces allows you to submit code DMOJ only allows you to submit code Let's look at the Single Source Shortest Path single source shortest path problem. Basically, point what is the shortest distance possible the road between points 1 and 2 has a distance points 1 and 2 is 2. The road between points there faster by going from 1 to 2 to 3 at a the distance from 1 to 3 is 4. As for point and therefore give up. The problem statement in this case because it is impossible to have a pursuit of getting to point four. This entire which is most of Edsger Dijkstra's legacy. This At one point in that human life, he thought to city in the Netherlands. After thinking for 20 get there by going to places that are not there This is not the Netherlands. Going to other places Intuitively, the further you've gone the less as you get really far away. Thus, it makes sense are to slowly traverse towards your destination. or Utrecht from Rotterdam. The distance from whereas the distance from Rotterdam to Utrecht is from Rotterdam to Utrecht with a total distance from Utrecht to Amsterdam is about 40 kilometers. the distance up ahead but with the total distance 55 kilometers, Rotterdam to Utrecht to Amsterdam 95 kilometers which is more than the 65 and so Amsterdam. Of course, this algorithm is assuming to anywhere that they've been before. From we already know that it is possible to get to to Utrecht is another 40 kilometers on top of the which is longer than the 55 and so we don't do to both of these cities, we have the shortest that this worked out because we're keeping track terminating any paths that increase the distance from happening as well - you wouldn't go from example because the distance from Rotterdam to the distance taken going back and forth. Now Amsterdam to Groningen, our final destination, The distance from Amsterdam to Groningen is 180 is also 180 kilometers. The distance from kilometers. It's apparent that the shortest giving us 55 kilometers plus 180 kilometers calculated that it is possible to get from what about the other paths? Well, since we're once we've reached Groningen, any other paths that equal to or greater than 235 kilometers and to Birmingham and also it is superfluous to Dijkstra's algorithm is not a difficult algorithm algorithm class after Dijkstra but easier. an adjacency matrix which is a 2D array that holds any two cities or nodes. This is the distance for every node and changes as the algorithm queue that sorts itself whenever you put something by distance. And this is Rei Evangelion if she was just take your node along with its total path currently stored distance of that node, and then this process until you get to the destination. then just go everywhere and keep it running until better. This is a metaphor for life but more left with is a set of nodes that all have their problem is looking for. Congratulations. You are on DMOJ, which places you in the top 30 percent of shortest path. What if the problem was bubble Segment tree? Aho-Corasick. Robin-Karp. Link/cut Dinic's. Fecto Elfilis. Suffix automata. Fecto Peasant. Prim's and Kruskal's. Suffix automata 2. Graham Scan. Stable Marriage. King DeDeDe. This is a list of Kirby antagonists actually. Indeed, a lot of competitive programming is implementations. You may find yourself memorizing competitive programming gets less uninteresting is the VM7WC '15 #4 Gold - Chain Rule. The problem Rule. Basically, you once again have a network of and a secret surprise middle point! The secret at some point between the start and the end. all we know is the start and the end and so the point is at whichever point that will maximize to the end meaning that we have to find the all the nodes are guaranteed to be connected. if it wasn't you wouldn't know, would you? We quite easy to get a distance from the start to we go out of our way to the furthest middle node, Not knowing the furthest middle node also means to the middle and then the middle to the end and compare which one's the furthest in which is here that we must truly understand the Dijkstra a distance between an inherent start and an of any singular node to every other node. This can actually be the end of your problem. The from the start to the middle and the middle to the to the start to the middle plus the end to the once on the start node and once on the end node. we get the shortest distance needed to get from singular node. The longest distance in this distance needed to get from the start to the end such distance being of course the expected output from such a perspective only deviates slightly programming ultimately relies on both an implementations of data structures. I wouldn't and in my opinion, most of competitive programming chess, though it's also as interesting and few years though, it always feels at home to be