Hello everybody. My name is Markiplier and welcome to jurassic world evolution We're gonna play this and we're gonna get some dinos and they're probably gonna kill everybody on the island [hair quiff] And then Jeff Go- Jeff Goldblum is gonna talk. IAN: My name is Dr. Ian Malcolm. You may have heard of me. MARK: Uh-huh I: Well correction, you should have heard of me. Especially now that you're here. M: Ego, much? I: So, before you are the islands that you need to manage. M: Mmm. I: If you can. I: The five deaths I: Jeez, if only- I: If only there had been five. M: What kind of name for island is five deaths? C: I'm Cabot Finch. M: Hi. C: Public relations and crisis management, and I'm here to help you. C: You'll start by building a Hammond creation lab. M: We're good. Okay. What's a Hammond creation lab? C: We've already started on an enclosure for you. M: Uh huh. C: You should just attach it to the side, but watch out for dinosaurs! Hah! Just kidding... M: *nervous laughter* M: My whole family was murdered by dinosaurs! Ooh, something tells me I probably shouldn't blast it right in the middle of the fence there But you know what? I like living on the edge. Let's do (it) right... there C: Let's focus on what you're here to do. M: Uh huh. C: Which is create dinosaur facilities on the islands we call the five deaths. *weird Mark noise* lol im dyingXD C: Actually, Las Cinco Muertes, because Spanish is the lingo of choice around here. M: Of course it is. Alright. M: Wow C: You'll need to connect it to the pre-existing network of paths and the power grid M: Okay, oh M: Okay, all right, I di-I did it! C: Now comes the real test: incubating a dinosaur. M: Oh boy! C: You'll start with a struthiomimus. M: I know what that is. (suuuuuure) C: Go to the creation lab and pick a hatchery Bay. M: uh huh. C: There's enough genome data for your first viable dinosaur. M: Do I have to sit on it myself? Oh boy, I like him. M: Oh, yeah, that's a good struthiomimus. I'm gonna call you Screwthee or Mimo. I'm gonna call you Mimu. They're gonna be Mimu. All right, modified genome? Can I do that? Can I do that? Can I just start picking random pieces in and out of this? Attack? Why? Why do you? Uhuh! Why do we need attack and defense stats? That's what I'm kind of curious about. All right, whatever uhh.. You know, it's probably fine. Applied, ooh. Apply gene. Okay. Viability is low. I like low via- null gene? Let's put bat DNA in here that's probably pretty good. Lifespan goes up. That's nice. I always like a long life. Yeah, okay, let's do that. Yeah, let's um, let's do that. Yeah, I like that. A nice whatever the-wait what is- Ohhh. *excited gasp* Oooooooo Oh, That's what that is. Okay, apply and then I didn't apply the bat, let's apply the bat. Okay, that's probably good. Just mix and match. It's like a potluck dinner, but with genes- okay, incubate. Alright, I got warm but- I: The machinations of the ambitious, undoing extinction. Playing with nature's laws. What can possibly go wrong? C: Come on doctor. You know, we've learned so much and invested even more in our Jurassic operation since the last time! I: Yes, Mr. Finch. I: Yes, the- the last time there's always the last time and a next M: Okay, you're being real pessimistic about that, Jeff Goldblum. Why are you doing that? Okay ready for release? Oh. Go! Be free! Go!!! Have fun! Woo!! Mimu! M: Mimu! Wow...*inaudible* I: It begins. The most precious moment. A result of I: incalculable actions and reactions I: trials and errors I: Genetic mutations- M: Uh huh? I: Unknowable combinations I: Chaos, all leading to a living, breathing, thinking being. M: Wow. I: An entity distinct and unique and now we, I: you, just... I: manufacture them. I: So, well done. I guess. M: Thank you. I'm proud of what I've done. Jesus, Jeff Goldblum (is) so mad. Why is he so mad? Just cuz a few thousand people died. The Dinos. Is that really- is that really that bad? Probably. All right. Anyway, okay Mimu, let me get a good look at you. Oh, you're so cute Okay, where- what? Where are you going? All right Mimu, you're doing great I'd like Jeff Goldblum, like pessimistically nagging me for every little mistake that I do. What kind of stats have you got? great stats. Drinking so nicely Okay. Alright. Good-goodbye. I guess. Did I do good? Did-did I- did I do good? What is this? M: Are you just leaving me on my own now? C: The hammer foundation has three main areas of interest: C: security, C: entertainment, and *confused Mark* C: science. M: Why did you say it like that? I: l already nudge the heads of each division to reach out to you personally I: They'll offer opportunities and incentives for you to be part of their team I: Choose one of their contracts. I: It'll help you develop your facility. M: Why did you say security like *uptight* security? Hmm. Something tells me security is probably the most important, but I- I, as a youtuber, I am all about that entertainment. Oh, hell yeah. IS: Hey, I'm Isaac. M: Hey. IS: I've been hearing good things about you. M: *laughs* IS: I'm in charge of IS: the entertainment division here. What good is the world's greatest show if no one sees it? Don't answer. That's rhetorical and IS: painfully obvious. IS: What I'm saying is that we need people in our parks. IS: Fill up our facilities with warm bodies. Numbers bring revenue, excitement, and opportunities. M: Warm juicy bodies. Mmm filled to the brim with meat those warm delicious Delicious bodies. Oh M: Oh, we're gonna fill this park-huh? C: Contracts can be requested on the division heads inside the control room. C: Complete these to increase your reputation and gain additional revenue to keep expanding your park. M: Ah, Okay. All right, then. I'll do exactly that. I'll do exactly what you're saying Actually, I didn't hear a word what you're saying. It all went straight over my head. I was just thinking about those juicy delicious bodies Expedition Center, let's try... Over here M:Yeah. C: So, one more thing. Your reputation. Your &quot;rep&quot; quote unquote C: Keep an eye on it, okay? C: If you have a solid reputation with a division, you're more likely to benefit from them. Financially, I mean. C: But, like life, it's a balancing act C: Each division is vying for your attention. And if they don't get it, they tend to take it personally. M: Wow, okay All right. This is a business. I don't take anything personally in the business. It's all about the finances and the numbers That's all we got to worry about. If we don't have the finances and the numbers, nothing's gonna work out for any of us. C: The entertainment division is taking notice of your success. M: Oh. C: As your reputation increases with them, so too does the opportunity to tackle more challenging missions. M: Let's do this. How?? How do I do oh IS: Hey, It's Isaac. M: Hey! IS: I got some cool stuff you need to be a part of, so I'm putting it out there. IS: Come on and help the winning team. Mine. M: Oh my god. I- I will. I absolutely will. I want to be part of a winn- I'm a winner! I've always told myself. I'm a winner. My mom always always have told me that I, I am a straight-up winner All right. Okay. There we go. I'm staring at like how do I do this? Start. I'm ready. M: Oh, come on now, you know you wanna give me that money. That's where people come in. IS: All right, look. I am all about the show, M: Me, too. IS: and with these dinosaurs, we have one unlike any other on the planet! M: Wow.. IS: Theme parks rely on drawing people in, and what is more attractive than new dinosaurs? Well, me IS: Of course *Isaac chuckles* (i dont like him) IS: Yeah, no, what I'm saying is let's get some fresh dinos in the hopper. M: Dinos in the hopper, like a paintball gun, we're gonna shoot dinos at people? Because that sounds fucking awesome. I would love to do that. Can we get a giant Dino gun? That just like really- their mouths open to scoop up as many warm bodies as possible. Oh, yeah M: I think we're all- C: The fossil center lets you extract DNA from fossils and amber in order to create new C: dinosaur genomes. M: Wow. C: Exciting! M: Yeah, that actually is exciting. Viewable genomes allow you to create dinosaurs at the hand creation lab expedition. Sometimes bring back extra fine. Zeca meat sold for cash I like cash. I like cash, um view fossils Got Struthio. Should we actually make the Struthio better? Oooh. I think that's what we need, too. Let's extract that bad boy. Oh, yeah. What about this one? Probably? Yeah, I mean shouldn't we extract all these? I mean selling them would be great But I'm gonna entertain people, I want to get all of these. I want to get them in a big box We're gonna create like an MMA cage We're gonna put all the dinos in there and they're just gonna Duke it out as hard as they can expedition map M: What? C: An expedition Center will allow you to send dig teams around the world in search of dino fossils. M: I-I've already got it. C: DNA can be extracted from these fossils which our scientists can then turn into living breathing C: Dinosaurs and that's our true lifeblood M: Okay, thank you. I was already in the middle of that. I was doing just fine. We're gonna get the carnivorous C: Good! Your first expedition team is out. M: Thank you. C: They'll bring back what they find to the fossil center for extraction M: Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for noticing how hard I work. (mark are you kidding)(scroll through the comments once in a while) M: So we've almost got the genome that we need- C: Your job is simple, really. C: Create dinosaurs which attract visitors to your facilities brings in capital, money, huh, which means you can do more research M: Money, huh!! C: to create better facilities and create more dinosours and there you go! C: Circle of life, development and resources, nature and commerce. See, simple. M: MONEY, HUUUUUU M: You gotta get your moNEY, get the caPTIAL so you can make the money, wink-wink, warm bodies HHH?! I get it. I understand we're on the same page. Okay, so I didn't get enough I got to get one more But when my expedition comes back, then I'm gonna be able to do what we need to do. But let's see what we got here C: The research center lets you improve your park in various, exciting ways. New buildings, upgrades, and more await. M: Okay, that's all you're gonna say about it? Okay, all right, whatever. Like I give a shit about upgrades, all right How does this help me entertaining? Give me an upgrade that allows a t-rex to try to juggle with its tiny arms, because that sounds hilarious. I want to see a T-Rex trying its best like, &quot;I can't do it&quot; then it has to lean all the way down to pick it up when it drops some that sounds hilarious. Intuitive learning That'll help it juggle. Helliya intuitive learning that seems obvious. Did they come back yet? They got to be close, right? Yes, maybe Yes Dude shut your hole Wow, that's very high-quality. Oh, we're gonna extract that DNA we're gonna get ourselves a t-rex Let's see, we need small power station, okay I'm Owen great Ohioans my friends I've seen things I'd rather not talk about but it hasn't dampened my commitment to the dinosaurs the Raptors more generally and me and blue Specifically we have a special relationship. Like what I have is clear less complicated Anyway, nice to meet you Who the fuck are you power is something we simply cannot ignore when it comes to our operations now power we We we don't have any power Who that? Who the fuck was that? Who was that? That wasn't Chris? Really? Well, they got Jeff Goldblum two voices, but they didn't get Chris Horrible that felt wrong I feel dirky no, no no, so I've already heard that putting a Putting a t-rex in the same enclosure as my other dinosaur is a bad idea, right? Okay. All right However, I know that's a bad idea Mm-hmm. Okay, we don't have any gene. They're treating these creatures like grist for the mill or cropping them up as curiosities. I Don't know what grist is but you know That's all right. Robust digestion really gonna need a robust statistic when you uh Meet up with me Moo there a all right. This seems pretty good. I don't think we have any more that we could do So we've applied that. All right now, let's incubate this bad boy right up My Park that's why I need to build observation decks, that's what I need All right. I need to send people on an expedition. All right. Oh, yeah We're gonna need more Sarah to Saurus DNA. Hmm for those warm bodies And you'll learn once he's learning to juggle. Then he'll have an ambition for us. He'll get a taste for learning No, he's not done yet. Ah Well, I'm an impatient son of a bitch you need to hurry up with what you're doing okay genetic research but Let's try medical treatment. What do we got hook worm parasite. Oh, no, they can get it. No Hmm, they can get sick. Well, I don't want my guy to get sick. I want him to be healthy Percent healthy unstoppable even that's like my ideal for my dinosaurs. I want them to be completely Irresponsibly healthy Boy oh boy. Oh boy. Oh boy There you go. Why are they looking down? They should be looking up Yeah. Yeah, no hookworms for you Very scary, I like your horn Do that by making sure their needs More demands and less understanding. Oh Yeah, there we go. Oh, he's on to something Oh Nemo, maybe run maybe run Maybe No Oh boy, maybe maybe 100 well now We reach the inevitable life baguettes death But here's the question. You gotta ask yourself was this avoidable? the answer of course not Death it's always coming. But could you have delayed it? well That's maybe another story. Ah Could I have delayed it? Mmm? Probably not. The only thing I know is how to accelerate the process All right. Now I just need to send some humans in to go collect the corpse. Oh, it's gone. Alright, never mind then well This guy, I don't know. It is named Jerry. Jerry is fed Jerry has been fed. And you know, we're all happier for it. Like what come back Jerry Jerry Yours and mine Welcome to the islands. So here's our basic conundrum. We want to keep our animals under control while simultaneously Encouraging instinctive behaviors because these animals have potential as combatants Everyone's fear object myself included is to have these animals running free and loose in the park But we can't exploit them globally without taking some chances Mm-hmm I like I like the Combatant thing you were saying there. That sounds real cool. How do I make him fight? Because that that sounds real cool. All right constructing power of fast food I've already got one but we're too got one here the park this little enclosure this very fast food It's running as fast as it can like for its life But it's just not fast enough is what you're saying. Okay, so I got to get faster food I want a nice restaurant overlooking the the death of the zone here I think this is like this is this is gonna be Gettin C shelter period why do we need that? Nothing's gonna go wrong gift shop fad all fast food Oh, it's too big build it in Some C an issue with uh anything that's heavy. Oh, here's a door right here, okay Well, let's just let's just plop Ruth at yep. Oh, yeah that looks I Don't see an issue. Well, I don't think unless you guys see an issue which I don't think any at all Well, that's I already knew about Dead dinosaurs should be removed with a transport team to prevent disease. Oh, well, I guess there's no corpse cuz it was eaten So, oh well. All right. Let's get power let's get power going from here to Right there That's looking good. Now now we're gonna have some power. Why is there no power. Oh, do I need a substitution? Okay, instead of a wait. No, let's let's how do I how do I bowl Dario bulldoze that let's get rid of that Let's put a substitution. That's not a substitution Oh snap that bad boy right in there, they're really they really know what they're doing here. Alright, so we got to build a road Let's see if we build a road from here Oh Bill cost obstructed. Well, we're just gonna have to get it out of the way now, aren't we? Okay, we don't need demolish gate one. Yeah Yeah, there we go, okay, this is probably fine, alright we'll put this right Oh A nice curve to it. That's what that's what we all really like now people can eat and see look He's friendly he's coming all he's so curious easily watch this Mmm, this looks fun Alrighty then Buddy hum hum diddly dum dee humble dum dee dee hardly do hmm Dinosaur threat, he's threatened who's threatening my dinosaur. Oh, come on now. Oh, he's running. He's scared Oh, Oh No, come back Oh someone pushed him out of his hole. I can't believe this I can't oh He's so scared. Somebody go up and give him a bag all huh Hum diddly dum dee dum diddly doo see look you just try to understand If you just try to understand them Then They're not so bad. We're not so different after all look Entertainment objective look at that Are you going look see he's just he's hot he's looking for some shade What a beautiful beautiful creature. Hey, look at that Research item from research center. Oh, I am making money. I Am making a profit. Oh Hell yeah. Oh, yeah, I gotta go. I got a research something control room research Building that one got it. People want to get clothes. I mean their clothes are gonna get real bloody So, you know they want to they want to definitely have that. Where are you gone? You little scamp. Come Dooley. Ho ho Lee hyung. Are you going for a jog? Yeah exercise is very important See look at that. They're going to the fast-food restaurant. They're totally fine Oh, What's wrong? What's wrong buddy? You lonely you do. You want a friend? Oh I can get you a friend I'll get you a friend, don't you worry, I'll I'll get you a friend. I know it's real Keep it up champ slugger. Oh, man, you are really really Really doing great. Oh boy All right, he's already going friends already on the way see he's not causing nobody no trouble see that's the thing This guy's causing nobody. No trouble He's full as the thing. So he's not, you know, he's not he's very comfortable. Look how comfortable he is. Look at that comfort That's so nice. Ah Let's see. We got more fossils. Yes, we do. Let's go research those. Um, Well, we already got them. I mean I might as well I'm gonna be making money hand over fist anyway. Ooh silver Alright sure fine by me. Let's go send another expedition Anybody else? Let's see. Oh hang hang go Saurus. Alright, sure. I don't know what that means But let's go off to the hanging along until our friend is ready. Oh, it's gonna be a while Okay, so we need to research something Daily to do blue, dude Intensive repair. Okay, that's probably pretty good. I should probably get like them a forest camo so that they can't be seen When they're like in the trees cuz I maybe he's good enough cuz I don't know where he is. I mean, he's probably fine but Yeah, that's probably fine. Okay, so he's off doing his own thing. He's having fun over there. I Will get Oh see no danger, no danger no more. I don't know where he went. But no, where is he? Oh, come on now Oh over there. Okay. Now he's having a good time. Okay. All right So we need to build Clothes shop Hell yeah, people are always gonna be wanting to buy clothes once they're uh, you know after they piss their pants from the dinosaurs not that there's any actual danger, but you know people probably Probably be a little surprised at least it's like a jump scare that eats you, you know really like the original jump scare was when a tiger would just Rawr from out of the out of the out of the forest like you you would be like, oh that was whoa You got me and then he gets you you know about that was really the original jump scare And I think people forget that hell. Yeah research. Did we get more fossils? Nice, I don't know if your Wang is I don't know what that is, but I like it shewag ciona debt, no dinosaur DNA Okay Rhenium, whatever that is. All right, we're good. It's time for friend release oh My goodness Look at you You are gonna get along so well, I can't even imagine I can't even imagine it I'm out of money that's impossible That's impossible. That's absolutely unpossible. If you think I'm out of money, you're just out of your mind, so don't even try that Alone or in a group, you just don't want to run into them. Oh, he's curious. Don't fuck Her what are you doing? No, come on, man. He's just oh my god Bad bad Sarah Michael Sarah That's bad. That's real bad. You're bad uh-oh alone or in a group That's no crunching the guests, that's a bad that's bad That's real bad. Are you gonna behave yourself? You're gonna be you take a drink you think about what you've done? That's enough crunching for one day. Okay, and shockingly no one is stopping Hmm no one seems to be upset about this Jimmy Well, this is whatever your name was JJ now now What have we talked about crunching the guests? Ah Can't believe man more paper I guess what I'm doing is working people want that real exciting experience people I just want to like really sink their teeth into this they want to like latch on none none They wanted to feel they want to feel they want to feel something real people will pay for those experiences. So Yeah, it was pretty good. All right operations ranger station Resupply feeders. Okay, they need to resupply the feeders. Okay, that's probably important Pretty good. How is that not connected by itself? You'd think that would be connected by itself. All right. There we go This is our new director of operations hello I'm dr. Dua. I run the science division of our operation Okay, you're going to need to build your reputation in the science division not easy with me around but you'll manage That means managing our dinosaur population and seeing that they are flourishing No, I'm okay. All right. No, I'm good. Thank you no need for that. I'm already well taken care of we've got So much cool stuff happening here, and we do not need anything from you. I am out of money What did I need to build a viewing gallery where even is a viewing gallery you ink it Ah, I can build it. I can still build it. Oh, they're gonna get such a good view. Oh man, oh That's so good all view away We'll see see look Michael Cera is still in here. Can I name them? Can I do that? Alright, you're Michael My looks like you've run out of power Sarah I don't know if I spelled that right look more power stations or Increase your outlet Oh increase so I can just like overload this thing. Can I just like blast it up? Like really just slam it out there. Can I just like oh Can I just like tell him to go harder? Well, I can't build one. So what do you expect me to do? How about a power upgrade? I don't know. I don't have enough money Huh? Where's my missions? Which where's where's my missions? I thought I was I had a million dollar contract I'm making super money But what the hell I mean these guys they expect so much out of me, but I can only do so much Okay, we're gonna get an observation deck Is what we aim to give our guests make them appreciate the little things Yeah, and the big things with the teeth and glassy eyes that could swallow them whole Yeah, appreciate those things preach them preach those things. We're gonna preach him hard. Oh, they are preaching Oh, you better believe that here in this place We preach everything that we got one thing has no power, but that's okay. It's only the ranger station We didn't need that anyway. All right, so we need Construct live bait feeder. Whoo. I like live bait. How do I how do I do that? Then the guests is it in the guest section I'm guessing it just like picks a guest up by crane and just drops them right in is that what it is live bait? Oh Just too expensive. Why is everything in this game? So expensive? Man maybe there's another dinosaur park that wants to buy Michael Cera good Dynes already has often just he's like wow combat infamy Oh Can I actually make fighting bits? Can I actually honestly make fighting pits for my dinosaurs? Oh Yes. Oh, yes, so I'm making a profit. I guess I just got to wait till I get a hundred thousand There we go contract, oh request a new contract give me a new contract entertain Okay, can I have a hundred thousand what is the contract build connect and power a hotel Oh Smart. Oh no. No Michael, Michael Michael Michael What the hell we're gonna get a hotel eventually once we get this live bait feeder. We are going to be so So good. We still making money yeah a Guest injury lawsuits. Oh, that's not so bad Well, we can we can manage with that. Oh, no. I know we can't manage with that Hmm Something seems something about my business model doesn't seem right Hmm. Maybe you guys a lot of look behind you you ever thought about turning around you ever thought about I'm sorry. This is this is shouldn't Oh, your Park is bankrupt You will need to raise castle with what you have sell unnecessary buildings fossils dinosaurs. Oh, I can sell a dinosaur How do I do that? How do I sell a dino? How do I sell a dino? Can I sell a dino? You're you were Jeremy. You're Jeremy. How do I sell to Jeremy? Oh No gerrae god damn it Jeremy All right, these guys they were they were behaving well And and I I think like it's I think it's videogames violent video games are really influencing these dinosaurs They're really causing them to come like out of control. They like you play one violent video game and the next thing you know Eating up people crunching a left and right crunch crunch crunch can't do it. Yeah, I can't sell one eye Is impossible to sell hmm well, oh The ranger station. How do we sell that? Wait, what if I just click the demolish button? Oh There we go. Oh wait. We're still not enough dead. Hmm. All right. Well, the one thing we don't need is power Well, maybe we do we need to power that I've gotta bolt. Someone's gonna come up to to a micheal cera over here with a bulldozer and just be like Taking you down no, don't worry. Oh, well the roads if I sell the roads we don't need roads obviously dah I should have realized I'm so smart. All right, we got this. No roads, no roads. It's more natural this way Anyway, we're building trees too. So that's just like double extra plus All right. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, nope. Nope, none of this none of this Oh, yeah, Wow, let's get that money back. I know this none of this none of this no more clothes We don't need clothes and we've got money. We've got money. All right, so we just need to power a hotel Let's demolish this let's demolish this most most of this. Let's demolish this and let's build a hotel That seems pretty good to me live bait feeder, right? This is the only exhibit that we really need right there that's real nice and then We're gonna build a hotel Oh, there we go. Oh that's looking pretty BAM Hahahaha million dollars. Yeah million dollars Maximum happiness and our guest numbers are up as a result. That's what makes the entertainment division the envy of the rest Oh My god, you are so right. No scientific research improves Of course, I'd never tell this to Isaac directly. I was going to add Nope Nope. No, no too late later doc Mission complete This maximum happiness people are so so happy People are so unbelievably happy. No. Wait. What are goat goat goat goat Alright Jeremy you can crush the goat if you want I guess The goat Jeremy come on now Jeremy Jack look behind you, maybe 200. No, but I was looking at the hotel No, I had a suite with a veal reserved now. Can I get my deposit back? Are they gonna fight? Oh, this is their meeting for the first time. It's a beautiful thing. They're meeting Their meeting their meeting for the first time Wait, Jeremy. No Michael Sarah wants to say hi three words Contract you yes Contract me. No. All right, I'm good Give me a million dollars or give me nothing because I don't even want to be bothered with that. Oh, man. All right Yeah, we're doing so fresh and fun Better myself. I probably could have but I'm not saying as I said anyway Yeah, nice job. Thank you Thank you so much All right, so we need to make this this place popping You need to make this place popping. We need a gift shop. Whoo three stars Have fun on that one that there's a lot of fun. We're gonna get this gift shop going. We got this All right, we're gonna have a restaurant right by the live bait feeder. So it's like Michael Cera geremy have like a choice All right. Let's see obstructed by nothing now right this good. Oh, yeah this is how we're gonna make our money back anyway, so and then Let's put a closed shop back up We got rid of it for a little bit, but it is coming back by popular demand and we are good to go Oh hell yeah. All right. We're making a profit We're actually making up. No, we're not. Okay. Never mind. We're we we are not I thought we were But we're not so you kind lied to me Just saying this you kind of lied to me and that's really rude. I don't like that but whatever Oh look, they went back in the end. Oh, that's where else Wait, I want to see if Jeremy goes back in there and then I'm gonna see if I can build a fence get in come On Jeremy, come on. Oh it was that Michael. Is that Jeremy? Oh, come on. Yes. Yes. Yes. Oh, no, okay We'll just do a fence we don't need to get in there anyway, ah Problem solved problem solved now the Dinos have a steady food supply and They're back in the enclosure, which I think now that I look back on it This is horrible this horrible I shouldn't be having to open this something so funny This is something so funny like I know it's horrible, but just where they go What does this say about me as a person what is this All right, we're running out of money ah, but I just solved the problem guys come on uh You're acting like I'm the bad guy here. Do we got to get rid of our hotel? Oh Man, but okay. Oh Man, all right. We're getting real hotel. We need the money. We need the money and I know I'm about that money We need an expedition place. That's Expedition Center, that's really where the money was right? No, it was the fossil son knows the expedition and the fossil center Right. Okay, breaking out. What the hell Michael Sarah you. Okay. Oh, no, Michael. Oh, he's fine Michael be careful be careful. I wouldn't want anything to happen. Oh, oh, oh, oh, they're very huddled No, oh there's just trampling, um Maybe you guys should turn around something Bad's happening here the guys have you uh Have you noticed the UM? Oh, well, I guess He's gonna poop on him. All right. Well, is this how the movie? These guys are having a great time These guys are having the time We got a gift shop. We got us fast food and we got a clothes we got everything we need I'd Be bankrupt by now I don't know why I'm not I have no idea why I'm not I'm trying to think of how to Do screw this up more and I can't think of anything. Wait. Hang on Maybe I can give me oh wait. There's only two. Where'd the rest of them? I was gonna give them a way out but uh, apparently they're all gone So look eventually at some point at some point the lawsuits are gonna end and I'm gonna start making money again I Want another concert act. Give me give me give Give to me I'm bringing this contract to you while it's still hot Well, I can't exactly make an herbivore right now anyway I don't know how to sell a dinosaur. That's the problem. I want to sell this dinosaur. I Want to sell but I how do I sell a dinosaur? How do I sell I have to Google? There's a other guru this oh, I got a tranq him This is garbage I won't stand through this if I thought this was America He the goat Sorry, I thought this was America, I thought that we could Buy and sell dinosaur whenever we want. I thought this was America. I Am I am I'm outraged Can't believe this I can't I can't drink it cuz I don't have this Center to drink I Sold it So I can't exactly sell it so Alright, oh my god, is there a possibility of making money Lawsuits are going down there's every possibility I could bring this back give me 30 minutes and we're gonna we're gonna be Good Oh, there's two guys. Look, let me see I can't well I can't break the fence cuz I can't build another fence, but they seem to be well hidden I don't think these guys know they're there so Michael Sarah and Jeremy are doing real good. If only I could move the live bait feeder in there, but Alas, its yeah not no restart restart You want me to restart this? But but I've made so much progress While you want, are you all Really? Oh, yeah, how bankrupt do I need to be to lose? Like honestly, how bankrupt would I need to be? Is there is there a lose scenario in this game? There's no loss scenario in this game. I can't believe that How is there no lost scenario? Alright, okay. Alright. Let's restart Island art. Let's do this I I Would dick around more but I ran out of things to dick around with my next thing My next thing I'm gonna do is I'm gonna build a fighting pit. I want a fighting pit her Oh, they're gonna talk to me again. Oh my god, don't shut up. Oh my god. Oh, God, shut up Shut up shut Up. Oh my god. I have to do the tutorial again. This is worse than waiting. Oh my god. I want to die I want to die. I wanna die. I wanna die. I wanna die. Just kill me. I want to die Alright we got this. Okay. Boom boom baby start with a struthiomimus. No, I won't remember Wait, it remembers my genome progress Remember remembers it remembers my genome progress Remembers it remembers bird We're back in business, baby We're back in business Oh, let's bill - we got to get to we got to get to you know We got to get to is it still bird DNA still birds still birds? I bet it's still bird. It's still birds All right, we got this bird's all the way baby. Bring out the birds. Oh, we got this. Oh hell. Yeah, that one's going. Oh, Yeah Yeah release it release it to the world release it release Yeah, Jeremy's back Jeremy's back baby. Oh hell. Yeah. Michael cera is on the way. Jeremy is back. Oh, yeah Alright, so what I got what up, my problem was I wasn't doing it as intelligently as I could now I've got a second chance. Alright, this is not so bad. Not so bad Alright Jeremy you're gonna be named. Oh four and a touch stars as well. Jeremy's at. All right, let's go Send people on expeditions I Can't be wait. No, I have to incubate it well you it says I have to incubate a struthiomimus it says I have to You guys side it says I have to I have to do this with you - we're gonna have lizard Intensive repair, it'll be able to be eaten over and over and over again It says I have to so I'm gonna do it go be free For a little bit be free be free run run while you can Life Oh Precious sweet life. Oh boy. I'm gonna name you your meme Ooh, this is me moves back baby me moves back me wants a fresh drink of water. Don't you mean? Okay, but we're going back to Isaac baby because Isaac knows what's up. Dad dinosaur. Oh no, what happened? crunch Crunch crunch Oh, Jeremy never changed Jeremy never changed. All right Research Center. Hi That's a 40 million that's 3 million that's for 3 million and you know, who's about to be born. Whoo, yes It's a free million. No, wait, no Yes, I am all about the show oh There we go, we've got our dinos oh We do we do strive by making sure their needs Just with more demands and less understanding You are right you are right my friend those guests are so demanding Oh Dody Beto Whatever. No one wants to hear it loser. Anyway, yeah, okay. Alright, let's put this down I guess people can be a little bit. Well fed. Everyone's got to be well-fed here the dinos everything we are Oh, Well tonight wait, what about that contract that I just accepted? Wait, no, but my contract I just know I had a But you but you said you'd I was gonna get a million You should you should but you said I was but that's not who you said. I was supposed to get the the the this deal Did I get a million from that or any clothes shop and a viewing gallery? Alright, we need the viewing gallery That's what I originally that's what I originally wanted I want I want to put the the viewing gallery right here And then the live feeder is going to be like, alright, actually no We'll have the viewing gallery over here. And then the live feeder will be right in the way I want to see him like run for it. I'll be great. Alright, so we got that that's being built We're gonna build a closed shop. And then these guests are gonna be safe and happy whatever That's raining sell umbrellas. I gotta sell umbrellas charge $20 for the non, Briella The little things like this little goat Okay we're gonna have a live bait feeder right on top of this hill it's gonna be like It's gonna be like feeding hell or maybe like right here. Oh, we can't they we really want to see that goat. They're Right there. Oh, yeah, they are That couldn't be better that couldn't be better. Oh, yeah there. Oh, they're so happy. Well, they're so happy. Oh, they're so happy I'm happy they're happy. We're all happy. We're so happy. Alright, go again Wow Million dollars a million a million Look at a bulb. I guess. We're so happy We're doing great Oh Triceratops, that sounds like a friend of the Jeremy and Michael Cera, are you just waiting for a live bait feeder? Can I just Do every few minutes discarding any leftovers must be restocked periodically by Ranger teams Different dinosaurs require different diets make sure to place the correct type of feeder in an enclosure Haha, I mean you're made of red meat or what What does that mean - that live bait feeder, you know, it's gonna pop out Wait, did one pop out already When did one pop out did you guys see that get eaten a bit you did a bit? You do Wow, look at the Dino is so scary. Oh, that's a nice detail with the way the Sun reflects off of that Oh, that's such a nice detail actually play the game not like seven years old Well, just you wait because I'm only building up to the point where I can ruin absolutely everything It's it's a it's a comin don't you worry? Let me see if I can get that hotel contract please Oh No, I'm not gonna do that, please. Oh shit. Alright, well, that's I tried and tried and it didn't work Hey see you sooner. That's not important. That's probably important you waiting. He's waiting. Isn't he? He's so smart It's that bird DNA that I put inside of him Oh Alright we got silver cell that let's see more DNA and oh good DNA. Alright, we're gonna get that and then we need another expedition Partially depleted does that mean that we can go again and it's okay I Mean if it's partially depleted that means it can still go but I don't know if it's gonna be like a reduced deficiency or anything Like that. Are you still come on? There we go Alright enclosures one item available electrified lights deal Sounds pretty wait. What? Oh, I need more power. That's right. I do need more power. Okay Do I need to just build another small power station? probably 500 500 days five hundo hundies. Are you kidding me and squat? Oh Wow, okay, once that's done we should be plenty of power and a plenty of moolah but a lot less Excitement, you know what? I mean? Because I'm really really really like I'm really pulling for some excitement here. We're not getting it because Parkes is doing okay, but it's not doing like great It could be better. It could always be better upgrade the first power station. Well, that sounds impossible I only have outage protection and I don't even know what the baseline outage protection could be What is the outage possibility for this? I don't even know but it's not expensive. So I'll get out of protection sure, whatever uh-uh Let's do the power upgrade fossils That's pretty good, but we already have a lot of that DNA let's sell this one and Extract from this one cuz higher-quality anyway, okay now that this is here. What can I do? Oh, I can sell my dinos now, but I don't want to sell my dinos. I'm guessing I should just get more Right just incubate more dinos these are great Can these can Triceratops what what would happen right what would happen? what happened if I put a triceratops in with Another dude, you think they'd be okay? Cuz this one's tiny. It's a tiny little baby It ain't gonna and I'm gonna do nothing. But if I want to start a fighting pit, he's gonna have camo He's gonna have camo because he you don't even gonna see him tooth hardness. Oh, oh, he's gonna have some hard Teeth Oh more attack on him. Oh, we're gonna have a fighting pit baby. Skin toughness. Oh, oh, yeah oh wait, this one gives more defense though, but less viability I Like intensive repair, I like that or let's see if this one's gonna work I don't know if it's gonna work, but we're gonna try our best I'm gonna try our best we're gonna get two of these bad boys going in here. Just in case. Oh, yeah Oh, yeah, Jeremy Michael Sarah. You're about to meet your match Oh, you're gonna see this strongly suggest you consider taking this contract. Okay. All right. Thank you I don't know why but thank you I think I'm already doing that aren't I what they already doing that so that's it's gonna be free money anyway All right. Let me see if I can get another contract Okay, ooh taking a picture from a feeder that might be cool so how do I do that And why is this not pumping out more? incubation Oh Did we Failed to incubate I Was gonna be easy We'll try again I want two of them but this cost a lot of money There's a lot of money that you're just pumping out on me Didn't I see something about like a picture being taken or something like that? Or was it the Ranger team that needed that I think it was the Ranger team? Uh-oh, I do have enough money for that. Okay, cuz I'm making so much Risks for now, you've done the first That is a job. Well done. Thank you Thank you Thank you mM million I've got a new assignment that I think is perfect for your skill set right give it a once-over man Let me know if you're interested million million new you on board As you can imagine the animals and the various facilities are constantly probing for weaknesses in our security systems They're smarter and more devious than people give them credit for But I refuse to underestimate their capabilities That's why I'm always testing and evaluating our security protocols and barriers This is where you come in. I'm gonna give this guy Lambert his due He actually sees these animals as both opportunity and threat. Yeah yeah, that seems about right considering that they uh They're about to fight again. Need you to extract enough DNA from fossils to incubate and hatch a dinosaur. All right, you know what? I'm not gonna waste any more money. I'm gonna send I'm gonna send this guy out there. I'm gonna shave before I do that we're gonna do like The that we're gonna call this one. How do I name it? Can I not insane? Okay, here we go my career All right the calm before the wool The calm before I have no more characters Okay. All right. Here we go. All right. Let's do this release this Dino. All right you go Get them you go get them you go. You show em. What for? Oh, you're big. Oh, yeah You're big you got big head. You got big horns. You got big face. They don't know. See you there No, see you face. You ain't know. Oh, yeah, you ain't no one to mess with. Oh, you ain't no one to mess with Oh, you ain't no one to mess with? Oh Fuck you Triceratops Oh, yeah, oh you shut up fake Chris Pratt. Oh, we're gonna call you I'm gonna call you Terry Terry Terry brews I'ma call you your name is Terry brews Nothing how he has a fight between Michael Cera and Terry brew Hell yeah, yeah, oh yeah, oh fight fight baby fight Fight everyone's looking at the fight. Oh, yeah. You're gonna run away little baby. Are you good? Are you getting your ass handed to you? Oh, you're getting your ass handed to you. Oh, you're doing your ass destroy It's a new king of the jungle here. Oh, yeah, you might want to back down. Yeah Oh Terry bruised ain't looking for no mercy To set them right I believe in what we're doing and I believe these dinosaurs. No. Oh no teri, Bruce - Bruce strike a decisive blow Take care of dinosaurs Oh the health is a vital importance. Oh Hey, stop fighting. Hey, stop fighting Hey, stop fighting look they can't cooperate Look, there's peace in the jungle after all look. I think they're falling in love. Oh, I think they're about to fight again No, no dairy bruised. Oh Oh, oh Dairy bruised no, no, Terry bruised. No, no, Terry bruised Oh Terry bruised. Oh He fought a good fight he fought a good fight Terry Will always remember you Terry. Well, everyone's getting a good show they did their best but in the end Only one can win Okay, let's make another dinosaur. All right, let's do let's do more of these big boys We're just gonna make it like big boy land. This is just gonna be a big boy land Do I have enough money for that? I barely do. Let's make it big boy land Do I have any more genomes that I can put in here? No? No again yet. I need it if I pretend to be able to do dad Still birdbrain still birdbrain very birdbrain. Okay incubate And that's all we're gonna do for now. All right now He will become Terry pues Dyon o7, that is the funniest thing. Next you are they? Creation laboratory before releasing and housing it in an enclosure You'll also want to make sure we've got an AC you presence on this island. Mm-hmm Okay, so you want me to make you want me to make one of these and then release it? Is that what you're saying now be very careful about what you're saying because I will do that man. They're gonna eat for days I guess died in a fight with Mike Look at that text died in a fight with Mike Okay, Terry bruised. Oh, whoa. Whoa. Whoa, whoa whoa, whoa Jeremy Jeremy gone now add tasks What tranquilize Jeremy ooh? Why no, I don't need that. No, we don't need that Where's the UH where's the picture thing wasn't there like a picture thing. Wasn't that like a thing? that's something that I needed to do photograph a How do we how do we do that? Ranger team add tasks. How do we how do we photograph something wasn't there a photograph? I'm gonna make a new enclosure I will make a nude enclosure, but I want to know how to photograph cuz that was definitely a thing Well, you know what I'm gonna do is I'm going to incubate one of these here because that's 170 and if it works, then I'm gonna make a million. That's a pretty good return on my investment Even if it eats it picture is Ranger team. That's what I thought. So, how did they Maybe Oh Get out the way get out of my way Get one get out of the way. Oh god. Get out of the way run There's an emergency Room I did not know this was possible Oh No Okay, we're gonna whoa back up Oh what? What's it? This is scary Okay Well, no What did I do? What dinosaurs your guests want to get up close and personal with? The thing is they can't Construct facilities to increase visibility and keep visitors the right side of the safety glass okay, I don't know I Don't know what help. Oh my god. Run ranger team drive go resupply good You're gonna okay. We're gonna I'm gonna take a picture of this don't come on. Oh, Please get this goat and not me. I love the music going on. All right goat. Oh, you're gonna you're gonna get eaten You get to go not me not me. Not me goat. Here we go Oh close Pretty cool. All right, here we go. All right, we're gonna get that picture. Not me not me Don't did there's a goat let's go right over there. Pretty cool, huh? Well We should probably get out of here. Oh, okay our bread nope. Nope. No problem Oh, yeah, we got I think that might be Michael Cera. Oh, yeah. Yeah and chomp. Oh Yeah That's pretty good. I really hope that gate wasn't left open. All right Dead, is that good? Is that good? No dice Well, all right, I guess we should get out of here then huh Oh Rome miss me. All right, here we go This is my new favorite thing about this is my new favorite thing I had no idea that this was a part of the game. I had no idea. This is so fun oh, wait, are they gonna I Should probably wait and see if they okay. We're good. We're good. We're good. Okay I wish it was a horn on this thing the good thing. There's a handbrake All right, all right, here we go here we go, all right, good luck Edmontosaurus. All right, Eddie go get him go get her buddy go get and no one can stop you all you look so stupid You are the dumbest looking thing I've ever seen oh my god go get him you got him Herbert All right, go get him buddy This next bit is gonna sound a little crazy because frankly it is But we are gonna encourage one of the dinosaurs to breach our containment grid Will then react and see if our procedures and personnel are up to the challenge? So at this point, I'd like to take back everything I just said about this yes. Yes. I love this man This man is a great man. This man is great man. This man is a great great man. Smart man to a great man Great, man Smart man smartest great man that ever smarted he is a smart man and his grave man was like a great man He is a great man. He is a smart man and he's a great man. He's a great smart, man I like this man. This man is real smart and great Not that one should be your first port of call to bring down a rampaging dinosaurs not Eddie I didn't care about Eddie Eddie Eddie, what are you doing? Are you mad because I called you stupid looking. Well. I don't take it back I don't take it back at all. I don't take it back none. Okay, we have our runner time to tag him a bag But remember I Understand the need to keep our security as sharp as possible. This is not the way I would go about doing it Probably not my railings going we keep you safe doctor. I'm happy to discuss it at a later time Right. Now we have our hands full. What are you doing? What are you doing? Eddie, Eddie? What are you doing? What are you gonna do Eddie? Wolf blum from blur Morph oh god. Oh god. Oh god. Oh God, alright, let's uh, let's uh, let's um pilot the helicopter. There we go. Good all the way Alright, I'm slightly - oh my god. I'm slightly drunk Slightly drunk. Here we go. Let's get him. Oh, yeah. Oh my god. Here we go. Alright Deadshot Oh Gabe Oh Headshot indeed. Oh my god. I'm so good at this. Oh You suck ass. I am so good. There was a zoom didn't even need it Ah, I do a 360 way out do a 360. Wait. Okay. Here we go Here we go, I need to call in the offshore trans Yeah, all right coming in for a landing Coming. Oh, no Hannah comment comment comment in for Coming in for coming in for a landing Excuse me Calling for a landing boy movie to be coming for Okay Coming in for a hello boy Comment. Hey, let's see if I can dartie. Let's see if I can dart against Coming in for a landing And I guess we're done sure at that does yeah good enough, okay. We need to pick him up that what we need to do had task transport dis dude dis one Select destination Can we sell them then Can we sell how do we sell them know? How do we sell no, come on, how do we sell? Oh And for teddy sell him off site how do we sell him mmm so just throw him in the ocean Sell him oh, I want to sell him so badly. Well if he goes back in here, he's it's good All right, well we're putting it back in there and He's going back in the back And he's going back in the pen and he's going back in the pen. Oh, look at that. Oh, that's so nice That's so nice. Oh Don't sell Eddie. It's either sell Eddie or Eddie gets eaten Eddie gets ate And I'm pretty sure Eddie would rather be sold and live in some millionaires backyard than be eaten I'm just saying Wow. Look at that Good thing our ratings back up. That was that was real fun. Now, it's good. That was good good stuff there I have another this guy. Well, let's just make it interesting for him. Let's just make it interesting for Eddie Like now there's three threats instead of just do two is bad and guaranteed death. But three that just makes it interesting brah Alright, what are your name? What's your name, buddy? What's your name? What's what's your name, buddy? Hon Hon. Okay your hon, but you're you know, you're the third so your hon trio. I'm gonna call you hon, Trio Okay, so we got hon, Trio Good job everybody Y'all feel good about that one job finished Screwin square look the thing is we're still learning where our boundaries are when it comes to keeping these animals under control God knows they're working out ways to exploit our weaknesses. Yes. We'll find out who gets to the limits of our abilities first Complex Exploitation versus security, let's pretend that he's panicking violence, but he's panicking Just poor Eddie looks like Eddie might actually be able to survive because he's running away as fast as he can I Think he's faster. So technically speaking. Maybe it'll be you know, okay Maybe it'll not be so bad. I think Eddie's hungry. We got to get another bait feeder But this one I think he's an herbivore. So let's build herbivore feeder over ha Maybe I should like divide it something That might be smart. I'll build another observation. Let me build another observation thing and then I'll build a Feeder right in front of it that Sounds pretty good poor Eddie poor poor, Eddie I mean, I don't think Eddie's gonna survive very long, but you know, I made probably a good idea Oh my god, oh boy Oh, finally oh Gosh, okay. Oh Yeah, it's a boy Eddie. That's a boy. His health is still going down probably because he's always food is down. Okay, Eddie you are You're a trooper. You're a trooper Eddie. How about I make another friend for you Eddie. Would you like that? I bet you'd like that. I need to get power to this bad boy. Oh man, Eddie, you know what? I'm proud of you I'm really proud of you. You've shown us all That life has more meaning than Joe Well This is uh, this is a bit awkward. There. He is. Okay. Eddie's doing better. Look at Eddie. Look at Eddie Look at Eddie. Look at Eddie. Let's build another Eddie. Let's build let's build more at ease Well, but maybe if I make it more aggressive Maybe if I make it more aggressive and we could really get something going here. Okay? We're gonna have three Eddie's let's actually a modify the genome because now it's not a waste of money. Let's give them more defense Let's do the defense and let's do Whatever. This is cardio strength Sure. All right. Okay, you know they got no defense. This guy's gonna die But it'll be it'll be interesting to see anyway and two of those guys good. Oh, man, we just missed out on aggressive Joe Maybe we should cancel the no cancel. Oh good it failed, you know Let's let's get that let's let's get Let's get let's just remove Eddie. Thank you. Can you remove Eddie? Can you get Eddie? Uh Can you get daddy out of there Eddie? Uh Eddie's dedi Eddie is varied, Eddie and Eddie Eddie's, uh Eddie has seen better days is just what I'm trying to say there Eddie is Yeah, electrified fences. That sounds pretty good. I think these guys are not only learning but they're getting more aggressive as Demi, okay? Oh God Oh, no, it's so sad. Oh, no eyes his mouth thing, you know, but oh, it's so sad Oh, it's so sad. Oh, that's so sad Oh, no Okay, bye, oh boy, oh, that's so sad, oh boy, I think we need more more more MORE Live bait feeder. Let's put this bad boy, right? Right. Um Too close to dinosaur. Yeah, you know probably Put that right there. Oh boy It's not funny it's not funny. Well, you know, it's even more funny here comes here comes Eddie with two DS not Eddie. Here's AD skip that because we're you are not gonna last long so let's just uh, this is um, Her toasted hurry up, please you you really need it skedaddle You are you you're wasting precious moments of your life right here right now. Add double D you are. Oh here comes that In Canada, I'll let you guess where the t-rex thinks. These are delicious Okay, I'm sorry just caught me off guard every time Every time they say something every time they say something it pertains to how I'm screwing everything up it pertains Exactly to how I'm ruining. These are these dinosaurs lives in horrible ways. Okay storm defense We've got that Andy e double D. Oh no. Oh boy I Feel bad. Okay, we're gonna get Remove it remove double double D did not last long did not lessen the only reason now that I'm thinking that Eddy lasted so long is because the game wanted Eddie to escape and Yeah, that didn't go over well it let's extract and extract okay and let's build a hotel Hell, yeah, let's do it Alright, where can we build it? I don't know. Why is it obstructed? What's obstructing it? Is it the water can I terraform that there was a terraform? Oh, there was a terraforming thing see shrubs Well, that's now that's in the water that did that doesn't help me. Let's little flattened. Oh Wow Smooth that down a bit Smooth that That's better now. It should work now. We're gonna get a hotel People are definitely one. I'm gonna want to stay here for a long Long time. Yeah, just a happy little accident dinosaur escaping happy little accident Alright. Hey, we got it. No, it's only viewable now. We need more We need more. Alright, so we got that Guests are gonna be happy. We're making moolah. We're making so much money go. We're making so much money. Oh look at us Look at us all Right. We need a picture of a dinosaur eating from a feeder. So let's get the Jeep crew out there again boo, boo boy run Whoa, okay ramp wasn't there before. Excuse me Excuse me. Okay. I'm pumping out goats, like it's my job I don't know how many more goats I can get out here. Someone need a damn goat How many goats can I get out of here how many goddamn goats do you need? Dude, oh, yeah, he's locked on target. Yeah No, no. No, you don't need you. Don't need me. Come on. What are you thinking you want to go? I'm sorry. Okay, Wow. All right Wow. Rude Oh Oh get it go get it go you getting to go. You're gonna go Hang on I need a picture of it No weird If I can chase down a goat, oh, I can't it won't let me run over a goat it Keeps slowing down right in the middle of it. Uh-huh. I need a picture eat a damn goat there goes. No Oh hate it. Oh Yes. Oh, it's going for it. He's going for it Yes. Ah, that's good one nice Even when that means they want to kill Okay, all right, thank you fake Chris Pratt, thank you so much get all the way Look out The dinosaurs somewhere. I don't know I Shouldn't have terraformed here. Whoa Oh boy, excuse me. Pardon me. Pardon me. No one's diving out of the way, which they should be Yeah, I got it. Cool. All right We got our hotel up and run hotel - does it remember the little the loss of hotel one? Remembers Oh What does this mean building? Can I upgrade the knot the gate? Can I upgrade the fences upgrade mode? Replace on can I replace? Whoa, okay. Well, that's expensive. Oh my god, that is expensive - close - dinosaur Oh not enough power Anyway, well I did something so I feel good about that, but I didn't do a lot of something our view fossils Let's extract you. Let's suck you out of there. That's what I did How do I research the gyro platform I want to do that what do I need unlock conditions not met Oh, I need to get the entertainment up Well, how do I get I can't be entertainment up until I get the right things Well, you want me to make another dinosaur pen do I really have to do that? All right, I guess I have to do that then it's making me so how do I do that, huh? I don't exactly have a lot of space here. Oh, I guess I got spaced out here This job ain't easy But then it's not supposed to be we are reshaping the world one exhibit feeding time show at a time This genome thing was solid. Oh Thanks, man, that makes me feel so good Thank you. We're gonna make big changes here. We're gonna we're going to terraform this whole area We're gonna turn it into the next area that we're gonna have let's smooth it out smooth Nice and smooth. Okay. Let's get rid of the trees BAM Eco-terrorists here. They it's gonna be the this is gonna be the herbivore area. There's gonna be the the baby dinosaur land You know how it is okay, we're gonna once I once I define the lake the actual like fence line, then I'm gonna come in and then I'm gonna actually Make it prettier. I'm gonna make it nicer. I am I am going to do that I'm a nice guy who likes nice things and this nice guy is gonna make it real nice No, we're gonna delete this And we're gonna we're gonna take advantage of a bit more land here We're gonna because I don't need to do all of that just yet we can have these blood and up against each other a Little bit which might be a bad idea considering that these dinosaurs probably don't want to do that But you know it is what it whoa. Oh The bird. Oh, no, the bird all the birds those poor family. No. Wish we bought a map Yes, that's what's gonna be okay, oh Okay, sure Why not? Why? This opportunity pass you by what what what what what what kind of ominous bullshit was there What the hell don't don't let this opportunity to pass me by why what what the hell? That was creepy, okay. All right. Well then all right now we're gonna build a fence line and It's going to be Cool where where's like the UH Was like that defining part of the fence. Where do I? wait, should I built a fence first and then built does research center that feels like it may have been a little bit of a Better choice, or maybe I gotta wait until it's done. Yeah, either way. I know it's gonna be Okay, it's done now. So oh the fence there it is. Okay. This is the fence line cool. All right, so the fence We're gonna start with like an electric food too expensive. We're gonna start with in the light steel fence. These are nice creatures there There's nothing to worry about how do you curve something by the way? Cuz if I want to do a nice curve like that, how do I curve it? How do I space? Oh wait, it says it says right on the instructions, oops, I'm dumb. Okay. Alright, that's fine, though I can't see where it is. But I'm assuming that it's all Gucci. Yeah, it's Gucci. There we go We would want just a straight normal boring fence. I Mean me but whatever Oops, whew I missed my target. Okay, let's hang on get rid of that Yeah, it's good enough that's probably that is adding is that enclosed that doesn't not that does not look enclosed Okay, let's get rid of the trees here so I can actually see what's going on. You're gonna go there nice There we go. Okay. Now we got oh, that's a nice space. That's nice space. Okay, so we're gonna have a nice little pond At the bottom and we're gonna actually make a divot first. We're gonna lower this It's gonna be a nice pond at the base of this hill like if I could build a waterfall in this I would you know, I would Okay, that's as low as it can go apparently and add water Oh, it just split. Oh it Well, it kind of there goes my plan, huh? Well there there there There's my plans is kind of out the window because you were too much of an asshole that consider my feelings Or whatever that looks good. I guess it looks good. Whatever Okay, let's add some shrubbery along the banks there along the banks there. Oh, yeah, this is good stuff good It's looking a little sparse up here. Let's let's uh, let's fill that in. Yeah, that looks good there And we got a lonely tree over here Nothing to worry about alright Then we're gonna make two observation centers one here on the left and then one here on the right see how I do it's Beautiful. Oh, yeah. There we go now We're in business. Oh I love that curved. I love that curved. I love that curved Okay, this is looking wonderful. Does looking wonderful. All we got to do is incubate some nice Eddies do we actually want Eddie's doing is is any what we want is that he actually what we want I have no idea of Eddie's actually what we want. Oh, this is not connected to that. Oh, that's why it's problem Oh, we're right. We're out of power. Okay shit Disease I just put down power, how am I disease? Oh wait. No, it's because there's no power. Oh Wait, we're out of power. Oh, well shit God Just let me click what I want a classic dinosaur on your hands. It's time to treat it or what comes next That's gonna be on your hands as well Hmm. It's going to be on my hands. You talking about the poop. Are you talking about the poop that's gonna happen Okay, who's got a disease you you hey Jeremy. What is it from all those humans you were crunching? Listen, Jeremy Listen you piece of shit. Listen, I've had it up to here. Well, okay. All right. Oh, Shut up Shut up not talking to you you go away. I've gotta I don't want to talk. I've got a sick Dino I've got millions Opportunity for you to consider it will allow us to work together to create life Pure life if you've been listening to dr. Malcolm, then you know how important this is to us and to me All right Well, you know I was originally upset but then you waved a million dollars in front of my face and you know You know that will get my attention Ah, hell yeah. Yeah. All right. Anyway, how do we do this? Do we gotta go get an expedition? Do we got a tranq him? Opportunity, let's get started. All right. Well, I'm gonna get in there. I'm gonna get in the car. I'm a good car We gotta sit down on her end That was the traffic was actually pretty good driving mechanics for a game. That's pretty funny. All right All right, where is it Jeremy Jeremy where'd you go Jeremy Jeremy I don't know which one's Jeremy I almost put some people the know which one's cheaper. Give me say you Jeremy, okay Oh, that's Jeremy Medicaid him. Oh You mean you Juke me oh, here we go. All right, we're going for it You can't run from me. You can't run Jeremy All right, get ready Oh Oh the target You think Now oh my god, okay I'm sorry Whoa, whoa. Whoa. Whoa. Whoa Wow Okay Oh my oh my Oh Welp I guess we're done controlling that woman. Okay, so no power here We need to put in the upgrade module we have that we need to put an improved outage protection by and then output protection or in Producing yeah, you guys understood both saying right? Yeah. I can name the hotel are on call this one. Um Sanic Dino fucking look out That's good, okay, so that's the seek scenic Dino fucking look out. All right, so we need I think they said Triceratops, right. That's what we need cuz I can get Triceratops. Yeah looks pretty good. I'm pretty sure that's that's gonna be fine Have I gave this guy modified genome, right? Yayi? Oh, yeah. Yeah, I did. Okay Let's get two of those bad boys going one of them probably gonna fail Come up, that could be interesting One thing we like here it's money I always like to money Yeah I want to get another expedition Center or I want to figure out a way to upgrade this so that I can have more expeditions Maybe I'll research something along those lines Hey get the smart people all in a room and let's actually try to do something with our lives Okay, so we need to get more We need to get more bullshit going before we're actually able to do anything Well success rate. Oh that did that's really good. Yeah, I've been having some bad successes lately So if I can get more, that'd be I'll be really worth it. All these dinos keep dying on me Alright, where's the Triceratops? There he is Let's go to hell Creek. I like the sound of help Creek really matches up with the kind of hell that we're in right now Oh Terry bruises back baby. Terry bruised died a horrible death chicken. Did you hear that? Terry bruised jerrybreeze? Chica, what do you think? Wait? Chica come up. What do you think? Wow? Wow, it's a Dido. Whoa Terry bruise is back with a vengeance baby. Oh, yeah, Terry bloom Honestly what you've been up to with great interest and I'm a little disappointed That doctor do what came to you for this assignment instead of bringing me into the loop that she should have done who the hell Are you discuss this with her later? Whoo-hoo the hacking hell. Are you who are you? He's gonna eat Terry bruised is gonna get his oh, he's gonna get his munch on. Oh hell. Yeah Oh Terry bruised Oh, fuck. Yeah Oh, who are you named? Who you gonna be? I'm gonna call u s-- Pingleton Yeah, you look like ass Pingleton. Alright, alright, so this is uh, this is Shingleton move move. I didn't put a gate in um, whoops. Let me put a gate Yep, okay. All right. That's good. All right, let's go Mom well, you want to eat you want a mount? You want to go crouch? You are don't crouch the plants. Hey, buddy Oh Mom Well, what was a zoom in rather? Give me a look. Give me a look go. Yeah, that's a good look Oh, yeah, that's good. Oh, yeah, that's good. All right fine I'll have them waiting in there for my opportunity to strike whenever they get hung go. They're gonna have to go over there They're gonna have to do that because if they ain't hung go Kill him I can get more dinos in here. Let's get the little guys cuz I wait no, we got more fossils Let's make sure that we get the fossils first just Oh hell yeah, look at this very high-quality bullshit going on here. Oh Well, yeah, okay, that's cool that was a good expedition we're gonna build one of you You're going in there. I'm gonna build one of you You the dumb doofy looking one you go in there. Alright, so we got those guys And are you Oh weird like, oh the car already go back Mmm, all right, the car already went back But I'm not gonna drive it over again until I get more in there and then I know that I'm gonna need them Okay, maybe I should get more of those things maybe I should get more of those I mean more is good. Right? More is definitely gonna be good. There's no way that having more of these things is in any way bad Right. Hey Oh, go go go Oh Little guy *chuckles* Oh Memoo! There's Meemoo. All right, cool Oh, it's eating. Oh, no, go go go go go go. We got to go take it take it take it take it. Boom Got it Oh man, I always make myself look good if there's one thing that I do it's look good at literally all times. All right. Ah Dad, okay. Let's make another one of these things. Let's make another big goofy, dude. All right, that one's gonna be ad with 1d Whoa, that is gross Whoo, we can make a hang. Yeah. Oh go go me move go mo mo This one will be mom Oh, that was me move. This one's mo mo. This is mo mo everybody Say hi to mo. Mo. Mo moment was a real charmer. Okay, that's mama. That's me, Moo. No, that's that's teri bruise That's me move. That's mo. Mo one will be mu One only Mamu mo. Mo me me my mo Mumbly and then me incubate we're almost to the Triceratops DNA. We just need one last expedition with it to be able to go Oh, yeah, release it. Oh, this one's Ed! Edie the loner always by yourself no friends anywhere Oh you big dumb doofy. Looking Dino. Oh, look at this stupid ass face, huh? It's dumbass Dino the survived herd. Oh I've heard that there's horrible monsters here Oh, I hope I hope not Oh God, where are my friends? Where's double D. And this one's just had Its add. Oh boy Yes sightsee more commonly known as Aslam Huerta a Newly developed island the name roughly translated that I do mean roughly the island of the Dead mmm fitting humorous even humorous even humorous Oh Humorous. All right. Should we go should we go to the new island? You guys think we should go to the new island? Yeah, you guys think we should go to death Island. Oh Yeah, no preach for mark because I'm a big bully I feel unprepared And restores as they can cause terrible devastation to your island operations Any damage this storm is caused you should use a ranger team to get the park operational again Oh and don't forget to close any emergency shelters when it's safe to do so There's been quite the storm and it seems that bad weather is often a precursor to bad behavior From the dinosaurs if you believe that everything is connected the so called butterfly effect And I do believe it. By the way, then one small change is all it takes to create a series of toppling dominoes Leading to rampaging dinosaurs Don't make a butterfly net big enough to stop him, okay? Thank you. Jeff goldblum. Thank you for that. All right, we're gonna get a ranger team. I guess looks expensive You should get that fixed Soon. All right, okay Do I shoot darts at the building? All right, you bugged it fixed here weak. All right that ought to do it Okay, let me fix that AC unit. All right got that one. This tower looks in need of repair boink. Oh, it's unpowered Oh, that's the only problem with it. Okay, well Let's technically got a substation. We just need to repair the substation Okay, I did I miss something because I have no idea how to repair a substation. Hmm Maybe I got a Oh, maybe I got drive this too because this wasn't dis repaired. It was whose is not powered So maybe I go to the Oh Why couldn't I go forward there well that made no sense, okay, whatever repair that repair in progress Okay, we got that. All right, I still think my old dart method should have been the one that was actually gonna get it. Oh That ain't good Okay, that's good Okay all done oh Good job. Well done. I'll leave them there. They can make their way back home So we got all that repair and then we need to close shelter clothes all shelter a Recent handling of anomalous events as if like it wasn't what was it? Not good Did we not do good did would did we do it badly? So what we're gonna do is We need to get some dinos going. Do I still have all of my do I still have all my yeah, I do All right, we're gonna make one and just truth the Moto X truth II me omus Only we're gonna just have like out the wazoo of how many screw me. Oh those those we have we're gonna have so many Stream you memos. Okay. We also need to get the actual expedition Center going we need an expedition soon to Have all this wait, where's the edge of our okay, we don't want to build too far over there. Let's make let's intelligently think about where we want all of our stuff and I am intelligently thinking that wow this Islands Whoa, this Islands bit. Oh my god. This is oh my god. Oh my god okay, this Islands huge so I don't want to build over there because I'm obviously gonna expand over there I think here is Probably my best bet for keeping things relatively in line with one another Okay, and but do ski the fossil centre to be able to produce those. We need to build a road to get over there Probably let's build a nice curvy boy Yeah. Oh that looks nice. Oh, no one can tell me that don't look nice because that looks nice Other nice. Okay. We've got a fossil centre curvy boy Okay, good. We got that fossil centers going up. Let's go ahead and extend out those boodoo shion's Nice new fossils discovered Helen. Yeah, go for that. Alright, go get get out of here. Just get out here Just get out of here release the Dinos. Yes me Moo and Mama are back back in business. Shut up All right release the other one and skip it as well because I just I can't be bothered. You're me Moo. Okay, that's me, Moo Yeah, the ones mom Oh, are we releasing the other one is is happening. Oh, oh Hi Hey Momo, I'm stuck on you. I guess we literally can't do anything until you're done doing your freakin stupid bullshit All right, Momo. You freaking drama queen. All right. There's Momo. Let's get two more going and Flump. Oh here All right, that's gonna be mu MO and mumbly what we need. What we need is a burger stall and that's what we need That seems like ideal priority. It's my minor curvy boy. Oh release the Dyna. I just don't care Okay, release the Dinos. Okay, those are getting released. I'll name them when they're done we need We're running low on money but not that low Research center okay there All right And then a road and then we are good on the operations bullshit The stuff that nobody cares about we are good to go on that one. All right, cool. Look at him run We need to get them food Ground herbivore. That sounds pretty good. All right Oh those were expensive why so expensive? Maybe because you're supposed to only need one and I accidentally bought like ten billion of them under construction power consumption We need more power. Okay, so we're gonna need to get a more powerful power. I have no money. I have no money I don't have more money. Hello Okay, cool, thank you. Oh Man, it's not even 2:00 yet. I'm not broke Look at revenue is a little downed admittedly, but you know, it's it's fine I'm gonna drive this Ranger team into the enclosure and you're gonna see I'm gonna get money by the way Babe, babe, babe No, it's not an emergency. But I feel like rushing. Anyway, we're oh he was on the other side All right, get ready to get your picture to can here we go Picture taken BAM. Gotcha You guys gonna eat can I get one of you eating that'd be cool that'd be profitable. All right fine. What are you losers? Whatever get out of here. Okay, that was a little bit of money, but not even remotely worth it Let's make two more of these bad boys spend our money Don none of these should fail they better not fail if they fail to be real pissed You got to shut up I already know what I'm doing damn baby, okay easy peasy easy money Thank you, alright shut up, okay. Wait, oh wait I got I got a name these guys. Okay your your amumu This one's moo moo. We got me moo moo moo moo Where's the other one there? You're okay. You're gonna be Moo me you're gonna be Moo me your moo me your mo moo. This is mo moo everybody Say Adam Oh, Moo, and this you are Your army me. Okay, so we got moo moo mo. Mo. Mo moo moo me me me and me, Moo There's gonna be a quiz on this you bet you got this better get this, right? You got to memorize this me Moo mee mee, mo moo moo moo moo moo and mo mo I don't like how they're all targeter each other. That's a Good idea But alas, oh wait this requires. This hasn't been powered this whole time. Well, that's why people couldn't even see that We need power. Anyway, maybe that wasn't the power area, but it just didn't have enough power for it because I have no money That's right. I was trying to get money for them. Then I was going on building other stuff. Why was I doing that? Oh and there's no power. There you whelp. I Seemed to be in a bit of a conundrum here. I can't get power shut the fast food down I'm sorry. We got it. We got to turn it off to --safe there enough power so we can get nope We can't get an expedition which is the only thing that needs mother that we need for money. So let's turn off the writ Let's get the fast food God people are gonna be real pissed if they were doing that food here. Alright, so we got that Give me power. Why do I not have power? Okay, this doesn't need to be powered right now. There's nothing to see over there So we're gonna deactivate that everybody. Hold on. This is all worth it We definitely don't need to power this thing get that get that shit gone. Alright now we can cook it Now we can go Put Veloso Roop ders on the opposite side of the Me mu and Momo's and Momo's and mee mo mo Mo's That we need so that they can just see him for across this fence and just be like, oh my god There's food over there. There's so much food. It's just this endless endless food. So we're gonna get a new contract we need science Me is it me are you going to give me money? Cuz that's all I really care about money We're just kind of stuck for a bit because I just kept it kept spending too much money. I just need more power That's all I need. I just need wait. It says unused power 11 Oh probably cuz I shut those down wait Why did I need power in the first place? We wouldn't I need power for again. I don't need power. I've got power I Think what about my other Island? Can I just go to the other Island? Is that something I can do? No, I don't think that I don't think you can do that. It's like playing a theme-park game You got only one Park at a time, right? Blue blue. Oh well, hello. Are you all right there? Hello, how are you? No dice. Oh No matter what. I think I just I can't figure it out. There's no dinos in this picture. Well, that's a good pick Oh, that's a good pick. Give me my money. Give me money $24 perfect. I'm gonna get there eventually Oh lunch, please munch munch. I need the munch Yes, lunch munch crunch and munch crunch it Crunch Yeah This is bullshit, I deserve more money than this all my expeditions back Okay, good. Alright, we need to send people off to More velociraptor and then we need to research the velociraptor. Well, yeah this no No, oh we got some amber. Oh, yeah a gift shop Hell, yeah You know, that's what people want. They're right by the emergency shelters. So no one needs to be worried when they're in the shelter They can still get their shop on I kind of spent too much money on the operation So I'm gonna go and I'm gonna demolish this guy get the money back. We don't need that let the mother humper burn What we do need is more dinos That's what I know for a fact. So let's incubate some more of these guys and We'll be real good cuz I don't think those guys are gonna be like any sort of a threat to me, right? Okay alright, I'm gonna Release those and we're gonna name them if I can get to him Okay, alright sure whatever you say man we need mommy mommy, okay, mommy. Okay you you're This is Steve. Okay, so we got moo moo. Mommy me Moo me me mow Mow Moo me and Steve. Okay, everybody got those remember there's gonna be a test You better be brushed up on what you got going on here. So we need To research these. Oh, yes, so Oh hell yeah my guys day, oh I'm so proud of you Okay, but what we need to do is we need to eventually I don't know how much we're gonna get out of this one We may be able to try to make a velociraptor, but it's probably gonna end up in failure if we don't get it, right? so you Wanna risk it if we're not gonna get it up to the air, but you never know with anything that we got going on So that's not actually the t-rex, by the way, for those of you who are thinking those deer eggs less time Stupid wrong. I think this is the t-rex. It's a doll Don't know. That's the t-rex Oh Look there we don't want a picture of that. I want a picture of that. Hang on everybody all the way Here we go. Here we go. All right zoom and uh, Yes, No, are you are you fucking kidding me okay, here we go Yes Yes Look at the money That's some good money. Oh, yeah Give me that money. It's the same picture over and over again. Okay, cool All right. That's all I needed now, they're back and that's good. We need more of a Lucy roopd and Let's fossil them up Okay, extract and it's shitty quality. Let's just sell that one and soon as we get those done We should be able to do that. We can build another power station now, which is good. I'm gonna do that We got that we got good power over there. We got good power over here We can start unlocking this stuff or you can activate that as soon as well We're not gonna have power for it, but we can activate it so that we will have power eventually We have those dinos over there the ratings not the best in the world one else. Could we make we need clothes? Hell yeah Okay. All right. Got it. Okay, as soon as you're done and more velociraptor Go Go go. There we go. Okay Well, we didn't even get to go to the bathroom. So how much does it cost to make a Veloso room? How much Are you dicking me? That's more than a sirota tops In what world and what in what cocks smacking world and What in what world is that right in? What are you? Who even are you who do you think you are? 600,000 600,000 good god Oh Lou alright, whatever I'm gonna make this guy I'm gonna make this guy we're gonna make two of these guys I don't have enough money for it. I don't have the money how the hell am I gonna get more money? More money, I've got money guys. I've got no money. I've got no money I'm so poor if this egg fails to incubate, I'm Just sunk. I'm sunk. I can't there's no way just I won't be able to do nothing I'll be I'll be washed up. I guess I could make a you an Or I could look up the ankles I should've but I guess I should have been doing I should have been doing my Contracts that would that would have been a smart thing to do Wow. Why haven't I been doing that? What about my missions? Where are my missions? Whoa, all right. I don't know, you know, this is a bunch of baloney Can I I can't even get another contract cuz I haven't been doing what I was supposed to be doing. I'm so stupid I'm just some dumb. Why am I making one of these when I should have been making a one of the whole Wang's and I could have gotten I could have gotten the money But I didn't I've got Draco Rex here You are gonna be much smaller than I thought you'd be you are fucking tiny You're smaller than the me mousse in what what why were you so expensive you're You're not worth it. Oh Don't roar. You're tiny I am Incredibly the Dragon King the Dracorex Sounds so intimidating, but it's just a plant-eater. However, just in case they do rule the earth again I'm gonna call you You're gonna be Malfoy, and I know that you would rather have more social right now, but to be perfectly honest I just can't afford making another one of you. Okay, fine I'll make another one of you good god But I need to make I need to make a who hang'd Wayne might not work because I don't have enough money to risk two Wang's I Just can't afford the wings. I can't even afford to go on an expedition I Got sell my fossils or something Oh avian fossils. Okay sell that that's good. Let's sell this cuz I'm not gonna make up I'm not gonna make up a loss or after I might as well not have gotten those All right. Let's send him on an expedition. We're gonna eye buys get out of there. Where's the Hwang? Give me here the hole Aang Chung King Chung King Oh Soros. All right, sure, whatever Malfoy you son of a tit. I am so unhappy with you You're gonna you're gonna get a friend here. You're gonna get a friend over to queue up Let's queue up a Wang, but we got to give this Hawaii modified genome because it needs the intensive repair So let's hang it up with some repair aggressive instincts. Here we go. This is what it needed, right? All right. We got the Hwang Let's cook up a Hawaiian you you're gonna be Ron mother fuckin Weasley we got Mimi Momo Mmm, Steve mo mu mu me mo mo. Mo me me mu Malfoy and Ron Motherfucking Weasley and I think that's only a Brophy we got those in order The expedition should be coming back. We've got 71 thousand dollars. Somehow. We keep running outta money, you know don't know why It just keep happening All right, you get get ready to go right back out motherfucker Yeah that struthiomimus because we probably need to perfect it even more don't we? Okay, what's this? Oh hell yes, silver sell that. Oh Yeah. Oh Hell yeah. Oh Oh good old low-quality Wang. All right We're gonna call you. All right, what should we call Wang here? Oh, you are an ugly You're an ugly guy. Oh, you got kind of a punk rock thing going on. Oh Okay. All right. Well no need for a little skip like that. Okay Wang It took It took a bit of doing I will admit it took a bit of doing Oh, all right, you're gonna wank. Hai. Yang You're gonna be called mister mister Pannu pea noodle Oh Mr. Pea noodle. Ooh Okay, everybody say hi to mr. Pea noodle. Ooh My first instinct was just mr. Penis All right We need to make another one of those even though it's probably gonna fail because the social is gonna get real down on it So we're gonna incubate another one of these bad boys, but I know it's gonna fail Oh incoming storm. Well, that's probably That's probably not good shelter coverage 92% That's probably not good can we make another 50 I don't want to spend the money. I look look look it may only cover 93% 92% but to be honest Let's open the shelter Boy, boy, look that 8% How much could those lawsuits actually cost me? I just can't afford the money You might want to turn around there start running Hmm. Oh, wait a minute. That's that's less than good. Let's get the repair team going. Can we add a task? Can you just repair why it's already on 4 it's just a little rain. How did it look it on fire here mother? Ok, we need an Clea sore. We need a ankle yasur Ankle Yasur. There we go. Oh boy. That's not good. Where's my repair team? Where'd they go you ok? I had a task Repair that. All right Huh? What's The right environment if they're going to thrive, ah, shut up. No one cares what you're thinking what happened. Am I there it is? Yeah, we're getting there. We're getting there. Mommy. What's wrong with mommy? Oh, it's comforts down. It's raining Do you expect me to actually do anything about the rain? I can't exactly stop that and it's cleared up. Okay? All right, that's all over clothes all good order and release Okay, so there was mr. P no Lulu this one's gonna be So we got mr. Payne a Lulu, right and this one's gonna be called Excuse me. I'm in the middle of something fence broken. That's bad. Wait Okay, wait, my hilarious name has to wait where you add tasks go fit. Yep, that's important can you guys oh No, not mr. Peter Lulu, but Sir Peter Lulu's on a rampage Uh, how about can you guys um, add another task? Can you can you tranquil I need I need a difference I need the right. Okay. All right everyone back in the shot back in the shelter. Um, oh Shit god, damn it. Mr. Penal Oh too low. I need to build an APC but do I have the money for it? The answer is no Mr. Peter little friend You've had a friend. Why can't you just cooperate? Wait, can I just drive this and what happens if I uh dart rifle? Okay, here we go Uh-oh, not sick. Oh, okay. Oops Oh Have enough money. Okay. Wait, let me see if I can sell it anything more - uh yes, sell this and sell that oh hell yeah and extract that and Yeah, extract that. Okay, very high quality. Very high quality. Okay, let's build one of these things. Hope you guys don't take too long While dinosaur mr. P and Lulu ain't too happy see the thing is he's gonna be happy now I Didn't have a friend fit like that long that long and then mr. P Lulu goes on see me as mr. Peter Lulu He's he's happy now It's frickin asshole this asshole this asshole, here we go. They see you helicopter add task You know, I'm gonna do this man you no no There we go. All right in the neck. All right in the neck. Oh ho Crumpled in a rag doll EEP. Ah, here we go Okay, get this guy move him to back in the spot and now everything's fine Give me your money. Okay is everybody else happy here. You're all happy. Yeah, you're all happy. You're all happy Where's uh, where's the other one? Okay. So as I was saying as I was saying Oh Forrest wait, All these neat Forrest. Okay, let's we don't need Forrest wire then Why are you standing if you don't like Forrest then? Why are you standing in the forest? That's your own fault? That your own stupid fault just move. It's not my fault. The you're standing in the forest Oh, is it not enough Forrest? Oh, is it not enough? I'm very confused. Do you want more for I can make more is That what you wanted, I'm assuming this is what you wanted, right? Okay, that's what I like about me, okay, all right now that we got that taken care of time for your name missus vagine' noodle And is he still taking a little nap is he still taking a nap in here it's pretty dense forest in there. Mr Payne a little and missus vaginal No relation no relation. I'm pretty happy with myself. I'm pretty Something horrible has happened. I don't even have a research station. How do I get a research station? I don't even remember mister for Janu Lou Mr. Peanut lo this disease is spreading faster than we can contain it. Oh no. Oh God, it's a horrible horrible STD. Those those two have been having raucous raucous raucous dinosaur sex and it is just getting Absolutely out of hand. Yeah, they are probably not doing very good. Okay, let's send you out again. We're not doing good here Oh, you're not doing good go over there. Let's Research these and extract. Okay, that should suffice for the the other requirement that we have over there Which is good and then eventually we're gonna get mister peeny lulu and mrs. Vaginal. Ooh up and running But for right now, it's just going to be a bit of a problem Excuse you I did not need you pop it in front of my face like this We'll get to it in a second. They're probably gonna die there. They're probably gonna die There's literally no way that I'm gonna be able to get this built and the research done in enough time to be able to save Them. Alright, we're gonna try All right medical treatment. Let's get four is this what we're Okay. What do you have Bracken? Bracken poisoning Bracken, there we go. Bracken poisoning. That doesn't make any sense. All right, we're gonna get the other we're gonna get these guys Where is my ranger? Where are my Rangers? Oh, you're over here. Duh. I wasn't even in the right place okay, you're gonna number one repair that and Then we're gonna once you do that. I'm going to take you over We're gonna go and we're gonna shoot some. Dinos. We're gonna shoot them good then we should take some pictures, too I bet people would pay a lot of money for a sick dino. Okay, so we're gonna get the dart gun out. Okay you blink Medication now Rhys. Oh, well, I'm boosting your health though. Yeah. There we go He's la Muerta, oh ho got you right in your butt. Oh ho come back here Hey look look look look Oh gotcha Oh, he's a fast one. He's a well you shouldn't have stopped. Gotcha. All right, cool. Oh I love this mitigation delivery system Oh, gotcha Okay. All right There's no sources of bracken poisoning remain in the bargain. Okay building available. What do we got? I'd strongly suggest you consider taking this contract I strongly suggest you take consideration of this France the Ability, okay. We'll do that one. All right, so far so good. We need a dinosaur rating of 1.0. Where is our dinosaur rating anyway island rating dinosaur rating poor variety great welfare Okay, that's nice facility rating is good Responsible management of our animals is key as is creating a safe environment for our visitors Hey, I don't know about that second one that second one probably isn't as good as you think it is All right, you know what? I guess I should get some variety I guess going which seems stupid Seems really stupid, but whatever. Maybe I should get some big boys. Maybe I should get some big boys Oh, yeah, let's get some big boys going. Let's get some big boys I would have a better island rating if I just got more dinos So I'm I'm assuming that these big boys are gonna help me get what I need to do. We can get another contract So let's get another contract Entertainment? Perfect just no power for, no power outages for ten minutes. That sounds good. Okay. Oh, oh god, damn it Oh, I didn't finish my research. Oooooh. Did I know I did? Oh that's stupid. There was such a small chance of that. What a what a piece of poop What a poop what a poop mouth! what a poop, poop face, which poop! they're gonna be made and that's fine I think this place is probably getting a little too crowded for them, which is probably why they're having some issues But... once we get these other diners up and running we can get a carnivore area So that we don't have to worry about any, any Interference in between the two but I still want to create a fighting pit. I think that's super cool was too weak You, you, mother- you, you. piece of Shit you piece of shit too weak to serve I can't afford another one That was two, that's two that's $600,000 that just went down the drain That's 600 do- . I don't wanna release one is gonna be lonely!!! Th-th-the that's so much money! you just threw money I had money I don't have money because you're an asshole. All right, it's fine it's fine It's fine. It's fine. I don't have enough money. I'll release the one of them that'll probably get my rating up because everyone is gonna be like, oh Wow. Look at this guy. Oh, it's fine. It's all good. You're gonna be uh you're gonna be called poop *Mark Laughing* Everybody out of poooooooo I Can't whatever I get upset, I just come up with the most childish name I could possible think of. pooooooop Dino bites. Oh Sell for ooh, wait, what? Oh We're not managing this?! We'll get some staff in there Management view we're gonna we're gonna sell lots of food. We're gonna sell lots of food. We're gonna sell it for 8 bucks because of the service that we got going Dino Dino bites Dino dish. We got Dino dish here! Oh hell, I didn't know that you could micromanage it like this. I had no idea. Oh, those are the running causes are crazy Ok, we don't need that many people. We need 3, 3 good people. That's what's gonna get us. Ok, we can sell Barbasol! I don't know why? we're gonna sell that bad boy for... 20 bucks. Oh wait, I need to increase the price of the other one I did not know that you could do this~ Dino dish 20 bucks, you know You know people are gonna be willing to shell out for Dino. Dish. We're gonna be all about the shopin baby and baby We're all about the shopin. And we actually we don't need ya. We don't even need that many. We don't. Oh ok Alright, we got we got this. It's all good. It's all good. Ok, you're gonna be you're gonna be Dino hats everybody loves Dino hats Everybody loves I know hats but we looks like we don't need any more of that, but we do need a food place ok, we get we had the moderately expensive food now to get the cheapo food the real the real skoozie stuff, and I I you know People probably asked is a real Dino and I just go yeah Yeah, they dial it. They die a lot later. I real fast. Just I wish I wish they didn't die, but they do they keep I'm not cut out to run I'm not gonna I'm just not be in charge is all I'm saying. I I really am Criminally negligent when it comes to the survival of these beautiful beautiful creatures I am But anyway, the the burger is real yeah, it's absolutely 100% real Dino meat is what I'd say to them That's what I say them. That was my hypothetical that I was saying to them. Hey, I got the complete genome Whoo. Oh, yeah. All right fast food - you are gonna be dino bites But you are gonna be selling them at a bit of a premium. We're gonna make it fun Hell yeah, we are all about the fun baby. Oh, we are about the fun and we are having nothing but fun lunch box Get it for a bargain You are about the fun. No, we are having fun here at gift shop - we're gonna call this Oh Big old boxes get um, wow They're big OK we've got the store big old boxes get them all they're big. This one's called Dino bytes yes, they are real they keep da that that real Please eat corpse. Nope, and they are real please eat Dino bytes. Yes They are real please eat all about the fun baby all about the fun. These guys. Love me here They love me being in charge. Oh say depleted. That's not good. All right I want to build another one of these bad boys and build them. I guess are you actually happy are you happy? You could use a little more but you know, whatever. All right, don't die. Just don't die Just don't die Don't die All I ask is that you don't die. Okay You understand me Triceratops. Just don't die. Oh You know, I You god damned stupid that's so much you're just throwing away you're Just killing me. You're killing me. I'm trying to kid I can't get my rating up because I don't have enough Dinos if I just get this one, Dino, I'd get two contracts done. They'd be done They'd just be done. I'd I'd be done and there'd be nothing else, but you just got a die You're just you're just falling over dying You're just dying just like you can't even get out of the goddamn egg. I just don't understand I don't understand. Oh wait, I gotta install this Okay, that's fine, I don't doesn't fine All good, not a problem Not a problem it's all right. It's all good. It's all good. You know, it's It's all good. We're just gonna throw that one in the trash start over cuz now it's 99% look 99% chance possible for success that is literally no chance There is no chance. It's gonna fail this is absolutely 100% going to work and That's fine. Look I live and learn. I've got loves I am it's fine It's 100 percent fine. My shop is making money. We're really balls to the wall about this Let's crank up these prices because I am all about the prices. Look high C's because people are willing to pay for it and I'm gonna keep keep gouging and It's gonna be good almost there I'm sir I'm really nervous about it. But it's it's gonna work. We got poop here. We have pool and you know what? This is gonna smash It's gonna smash these ratings out the window. They're gonna go right out the wazoo release Yeah, look at that, oh my god, you're beautiful Wham wham wham wham and with that everybody say hello to Everybody welcome welcome P I'm gonna be good. We got pooping we got Ya, that's a few too many E's I think on P I get a little uh a little excited on the e Got P P Okay, we didn't make it up. This is Huh, all right, you know what, that's fine cuz that's fine. Let's just make some Edmonton's Let's make some Edmonton's. Let's make a couple Edmonton's cuz that's what i'm looking for And then we'll have our variety up and then we'll have better right Great Squadala and with that we have got this place ready to go We're gonna I think they're all like the ones that were there before ed and Nettie they're dead. So we need another trio I'm gonna call buffle bubbles blossom and Buttercup. Got it. Okay. Oh Shut up hurry up. We've got a line going If it's all about you, then things are not gonna go well. Alright you are this is blossom Everybody say hi to blossom and then bubbles is coming out there and then Buttercup will be Buttercup, we'll be on the way right about no Never mind, I don't have enough money. Are you gonna roar? You're gonna be done? How do I not? How do I how is it? Oh, it's up. Wait, it's up. Wait. Give me my money Give me my need to do it for ya. Okay. All right. This is butter this bobbles theses bobbles these bobbles these blossom I should have just gotten one of the carnivores because the carnivores are always higher rated than these goddamn assholes Not like these not like the mimo muumuus And piece of shit do nothing for me bunch of garbage dinosaur rating it I think the reason that my other dinosaurs were so highly rated because they probably had a lot of combat infamy just from Crunching all the gets so there's really nothing that nothing that I did. It's just they they were very vicious very vicious okay, and then um How am I not island raiding? I want my Island port capacity What port capacity is it because I'm pricing them too high Is that the problem is it because they're too expensive? Is that what it is? Oh, no one's there. Oh, okay No one's buying it. Oh, whatever Oh screw me that no one's buying because it's so expensive Fuck you. Alright, whatever. We're gonna make it twelve. That's it Seems totally fair that it would be double the price of whatever it is is that the reason my my Park has been going down is that the reason is that the reason is that the reason because I Feel like that's really mean management view. I thought I told you the management view was fun. Oh I saw that it just went back to none management view is fun It goes back to none. How can you not know? It's fun, right? That's Buttercup know our mission in raising. These animals is to provide an environment for them to thrive Your habitat is too small for them. How do you know how do you know? It's too small? How do you know it's too small? Are you sure it's too small? Maybe you're too small you ever think about that you ever think that you're too small you didn't think about that? Cuz you might be you might be too small I could either build more fence or I could build a hotel and you know, it's when I'm gonna be going for stupid Idiot our hotels going up. They're not they're not cooperating with me. They don't know. I am all about the fun I'm all about the fun. This is a fun place full of fun people. We're having lots of fun. We're having lots of fun Good thank you You're gonna give me money for putting down a hotel that just proves to me that it was the right idea all along Alright, I'm gonna make a bigger habitat for these asshole Pieces of shit we're gonna basically I'm gonna do this in two stages I'm gonna build it out for okay, don't let this go to your head But that was some very impressive work on that contract Wow. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much I thought as much I Suspected as much but I'm glad you said it Anyway, I knew it was really really impressive work because it was really difficult. It was incredible. Oh Shit, huh? All right. Well, let's prepare that Uh-huh prepare that uh-huh Fare that are you gonna go are you going are you going just run people over? Are you going just run people over man? I wish is you I'm faster driving than these guys are I don't know what they're doing being all lollygag II about it Okay, so far so good I mean the Dinos probably ain't getting too comfortable about it, but I Think they'll be all right seems to be clearing up all good. All good. Okay. All right Get the hell out Spend money, okay I'm gonna build bigger area for this one - too close to the dinosaurs Oh get out of the way Then you've asshole get out of the way you got that Let's demolish this that and this and that and we've got much bigger places for everybody to roam. Oh, yeah Oh Entertainment division is excelling because of you. So you're getting a reward Guys guys guys I have Okay, all right cool I deserve it I do deserve that that's that's on to present I deserve that one other person absolutely do but Also, I got a bunch of stuff here bird eggs. That doesn't help anybody. Are they sure That's a bird egg the pretty sure that's not like, you know unimportant egg 202. Oh hell. Yeah. I'm making so much money Okay, this is going really really really good. Really really good. I probably need to make another shelter at some point Toy shop that sounds fun. Oh, that sounds Super fun. That's good. Are they wearing hats? Oh That's for a second. Okay, bubbles blossom wait wasn't Buttercup supposed to pop out and didn't did Buttercup get scooted out of there But butter buttercup didn't have a buttercup. Oh there you are. Buttercup. There you are. There you go. Okay. All right. We got that That's good That's good is looking good. That's looking good. We are doing really really good. All right, so what's next to do? What would be next to do? They said that the transportation in this place ain't too good, but I don't exactly know how to build more monorail How would I build more monorail if I were just to be perfectly honest about it? Cuz honestly, I don't know feeder needs resupply. Well, that seems important. Ooh, we need more power I think I can still put modules into the new one over here. Yeah, I probably can add Output. Okay, that's a little bit more but not that much It'll keep us it'll keep us good for the time being until I can get more stuff We could build a new zone and actually get some carnivores up in here, which is what I want to do We could probably do it over here in carnivore land. Okay, let's build let's do exactly that Let's cuz we oh, look how much space we're gonna make this all oh Yeah. Oh Yeah, okay, we're gonna make it carnivore land but it's gonna have like a there's also going to be a rapping Observation road that's gonna have a bunch of observation decks. But before we do that I need to DeForest I need to absolutely Destroy all of the beauty of this land and then I have to terraform it and it's it's really gonna be bad So if you if you're just if you're a faint of heart just divert your eyes because it's going to be rough and tough There's gonna be so much dense foliage in here. No one's gonna know what kind of Dinosaurs are hiding up in here and the observation road is gonna be how long a coast because that sounds real cool We've got so much money that it doesn't even matter So we just take all this money and we're gonna we're gonna put it to some good use Putin's real good use this is where the plateau is That's the plateau. We're gonna build a ride on the plateau There we go. That's what I'm talking about. Plateau is right there. Cool. All right, cool We got that my path is gonna connect with a nice curly boy Right there and that the pass is gonna wrap around right there And then the whole enclosure is gonna be wrapping around the whole dingdong damn thing. There we go Okay, got it. Nailed it. Oh my god This is some cool shit. I Told you this is gonna be cool and you know, some of you didn't believe me some work you might be interested in Oh, I might be interested in Oh, you know You know I'm gonna be interesting in that I didn't make it electric fence Because frankly that would have taken too much power and I just can't afford that I am very very cheap I cannot afford pretty much anything anymore. But what I can do now is I'm gonna make a nice nice Perilous mountain path that is going to skate right along the outskirts of what we have going on here All right, and then that'll be the end of the line right there Oh, yeah, and then we're gonna have a bunch of observation decks pretty much all over the place You think you don't think all over the place? I'm thinking Literally all over the place. Okay, we're gonna have one here here Here, you know actually Maybe we should have one right here. And then that'll be the only one right here. Yeah, let's just do that one Let's list do that one. Let's let's not do that. Okay, cool. Got it. We've got tons of observation decks We got over a million still Over a million smackers. We need more power out of this. So we're gonna need another Substation bada bing go curvy boy. Okay cool. Then we need power substations. Cool Then we need roads connecting all these Thank you for noticing Thank you for noticing. All right, we're gonna get the live bait we're gonna have two live bait - live bait things we're gonna have two of them and then we're gonna have to Just carnivore feeders. Yeah, you know what? What's wrong with live bait, right? What's wrong man? Maybe we should good. Hmm. What's the difference? What do we need less efficient it satisfies food and provides activity for the hunter I mean, it seems like live bait would be better right wouldn't live bait be better overall I think it would let's let's get another one like in the right here. I think so. Anyway god that was all my money No, I forgot They're so expensive. I forgot no expensive they were ah, no I Have no money. Alright, let's see if we can get rid of this last one here. No, let's let's give it a refunded one No, if it was only a refund of 25,000, I wouldn't have got it. I Didn't mean to do that if it was only 20, I thought that was 200 bit My money and now I don't have one more beat Okay, it's fine. No everybody you you seem worried about It on beat I Don't even have dinosaurs. Why did I need bait? Totally fine cuz these guys need water that's one thing that they definitely need. There we go Horrible Horrible, oh god, it looks as the worst thing I've ever seen in my life. Okay, whatever. It's fine. That looks nice. I Kind of I guess Boy, what goat? Why are you? Jayant water dick it is if that doesn't even look remotely like a water dick in What world is that a penis and what is wrong with your penis if that's what your penis looks like? Maybe you should you see a doctor are you? Okay? Alright, we've got money. We need to make the Reaction speed what does it even do? Oh, it makes him grow faster. Oh that's fascinating. I would do that But I'm more worried about them being successful Than anything such as that, so what can we afford? What can we afford to make we have a thing for rapid metabolism Ceratosaurus, and that's pretty good. So let's get a rapid metabolism going the Surat asaurus and then hopefully we'll be able to I'm good. I mean we're not gonna have birdbrain. I would like birdbrain. Wait rapid. Oh, I don't even have rapid metabolism Well, I got to go research that first. So let's do that. Ok genetic research rapid metabolism I don't have that. How do I get rapid metabolism in doing that is a bird thing Oh, but I don't have the science Hey doctor you want to give me a I can help you as well. You mean just keeping a large number of guests in here? Is that so really all your so your plan the your master plan here? We're gonna get Some Cerreta sores, they may not have everything that we need but getting one of those bad boys in here That is going to be bananas Million that's a lot. No, how do I even know how many guests I have in the park at any time? Oh I'm close. I'm not there yet But I am close I could probably get there if I get another I get another like hotel or something But I don't want to spend money on the hotel when I could get two So I saw that's gonna get another one. Do I have enough money for another one I do But I want to wait on it, but I want to get it now. I'm gonna get two now Okay. So those are being built those will give me more guests. Those will give me more guests Oh-oh, I'm close to that - oh, I'll get a mission when I get a mission. I'll get a million dollars mmm, sabotage wait Sabbat Wait wait Bacon sabotage Why would they do that why Would they why why would they do that in what world? Why would they do that? What would benefit it's a dinosaur park? What why why Why he okay. All right, Oh big boy time. All right big boy time. We're gonna release this do new. Oh, Yeah, finally time for a big beastie boy. Oh Yeah. Oh look at em. Oh, that's a big boy You know you didn't have to prove anything But the way you took charge left an impression Good work this one this one right? There a person to do this job and do it. Well The Security Division is rewarding you because on isla murder. You are clearly that person. Thank you I think okay. I'm gonna call this one's uh Well that fits into your name just right this is cuddles He really likes to call you, but he can't get you with your arms So he's gotta like he's got a cuddle you on his insides He's gonna he gives you a big hug all the way through his body Gives you a big hug Or sniffs Norv us no All right, this one's uh, this one's are probably ready for a crunch and do but this this is this is snuggles that snuggles that's cuddles But I put so much work into this one Failed enterprise By you this place sounds perfect for you Ysleta can yo Oh, Failed enterprise save this island from financial ruin the moss the failed infrastructure and plan out your own path to success. We're famous Star dinosaurs like the transverse Rex to bring in record guest numbers Gyro Sears bring your guests closer to the dinosaur with new visibility tools like the gyrosphere I But I just you know, I just kind of like Kind of like got this one up and running. I was really interested in snuggles and cuddles over here Oh here comes a crunching here comes the crunch Oh gonna give you a nice cuddle Oh Perfect. Oh not enough Forrest. Well, sorry. That's not my fault. That's your fault That's your fault for not being in the forest enough You got to give people like a view so, you know The people need to be able to see so I got that and this is looking good So should I go over to the new island? Hum diddly hum diddly, hoho. I guess I could just get like more research here I kind of like, you know would get research Oh, well, let's get out of this island we gotta go How do we go? How do we go to another? How do we get out here? Can we go to another island? How do we get out of here? Ah? Perfect Okay. Alright wait, let me what was the UM? Wait, what was it? What was the what was the special reward? Because I said there was a special reward for getting something done here cuz it said there was like if it said there was um It said there was rewards like you could get dig team Bravo Which I'm assuming means another dig team If I get a perfect five-star Island rating, which would be nice, but I don't think I'm gonna get there Let's go over to the new place. Let's see what's going on here. Let's see you how how bad available cash negative nine Oh, People's wants a monorail Are you want a cono and there's a disease here? I don't I don't want that I'm gonna go to I'm gonna Island to cono and build a monorail over there. I'll build a monorail I want to go being dead. That's what I know. That's what I love. So I'm gonna go do that Oh, oh, it's beautiful near here Spared no expense as Hammond would say a Biological preserve, you know, you may have heard about it at least the stuff that wasn't classified. Oh This is one of your predecessors was in charge of this island But here's your opportunity to succeed where they failed You'll need to carefully consider how to make money if you want to turn this into a profitable endeavor and you do trust me Okay, oh this is the island this is though the one from This is the one from the movie This is the movie Island. It's already got a monorail. I'm telling you. It's pretty good I'm gonna demolish it and get some money Give me then money. So that monorail is gone. We didn't need it. Anyway, what a bunch of garbage. Anyway, am I right people? I don't know. What what is this? Innovation Center Okay, all right Cool well, I mean that it's cool to have an Innovation Center I guess but also we have no money So I think I gotta get rid of Yassem million Oh a milli. Milli. I'm gonna get a Millimeter though. I like all this this looks cool. It's got a bunker. It's got whatever that is. Oh, it's an enclosure for Something and then yeah, there's a little Dino area here just to fur baby dinos, which is probably what we're gonna start with Right, or maybe I should demolish these anyway, it looks like there's redundant here I don't think we need all of it But I kind of want all of it because that's kind of cool and I want it and so I'm keeping it I'm keeping it and I want it and that's all there is to it. I'm gonna make this area bigger There's gonna be bigger. Yeah, I know path not connected, but that's because I'm gonna redo the path This path was done stupidly and it's for dumbs. But I am NOT a dumb. I am smart and I am NOT dumb So we're gonna make this real good. Then I will get a monorail. I will I promise Oh, I'll get a monorail wink wonk I'll get oh, yeah, you can count on me for a monorail You know than the one I say I'm gonna get a monorail, you know, I mean business Got it nailed it. All right cool. So that is leaves us with very little money Yet. Can I get a loan? Can I get a loan? Can I get ha? Oh, yeah, this needs a connect power. Okay, so that's connected. We have power. I think this one needs a substation all right, so we're 70,000 that's not enough to get literally anything arcade. Oh, but I want on arcade. That's I'm so cool Oh toy shop fast food the bar fossils own they sound so cool Don't sound so great. Don't sound great. Why can't I keep those? I'm losing money real fast. Okay, we're losing money. What is what is the problem here? What's the problem? What's going on? Why Zahra read something or other? Why? Why read what? What's the dealio? What what's the deal? What's the dealio? are we not oopen are we uh, What's the dealio? What whoa, why are there no people here. There should be people here I don't know why there's no people here probably because we got no dinos. Okay, we're gonna get rid of the fossils own I don't want to do that. Oh god the bar. No, I can't drink anyway, so I guess it's okay All right. We need to pick dinos. Now now now we're gonna start off with the cheapos. We're gonna start off with the cheapos We're gonna modify the shit out of them. They're gonna be so modified So we're gonna get a couple these boys and then suddenly baby. We got a stew going I think we just did this by the skin of our tit eat it tits. Okay. We need to feed them Feed them I did not think about Feeding them probably. Okay. Get out there. All right me mow. Ma mow ma. Mow me me. Mama mama, probably it's probably fine I'm not worried about. Okay, go go go. We got to go. We got to go. Come on We got to make more gotta make more get out there entertain people. Just get out there We got to get people in we got to get people. Oh, yeah, here they come. Oh, they're ready. Oh you're ready Why is this still problem? What is the problem? What is why is something a problem here? We've got to die knows which means that the game is on Any minute now people are gonna come flooding through those doors Oh people are flooding through those doors Oh, give me a gimme gimme contracts Gimme, no get give gimme contracts. I need contract like right now. Mmm. Anarchie. Oh no norm of the Louis's Reaction speed do I even have reaction speed an RKO thermos? I don't I can't even research We asking speed because I don't have that. Maybe I gotta go to another park to be able to research That makes a lot of sense. Do they get make money when I'm not there. That would be pretty cool That'd be pretty pretty tight. They might not do that. They might absolutely not do that Hmm problem also, I don't even know if I have the ability to get an RKO The minimus mytha - oh, here's the people. There's the people Look at my eye. I've got 5 out of 5 facility rating. Oh Yeah These guys these guys don't do shit for me so I got to get a big I got to get a big I Can't afford any big not but can't afford any big ok I think that's I think that's pretty much everything there is to it and I still don't know why this is here feeders Ah, yeah 4 died. Can I afford it? Yes, I can. Okay, I can afford one fede. There we go I have no ranger station, but I've got one fede boy Okay, that is gonna do it for now Let's save this as one Fede boy that is all the time I have for this game. Thank you guys so much for watching Have a good night. And as always In the next video, bye-bye