My name's Rob Holmes. I'm I've stopped millions of entering the US market. This is how crime works. It's estimated that 23.3 are circulating in the US right now. There have been plenty of stories of the counterfeit-watch industry sweatshops, and even human trafficking. You're going to have organized criminals who are doing this kind of stuff. When I work undercover as a distributor, I have to be very credible. Doing what I do doesn't come Many of the fakes nowadays come with a box and the authentication certificates. You used to see watches maybe one of the trademarks, like just the crown on the face but not the crown on the dial. Now, manufacturing has gotten so good that even the cheaper There are people who buy Patek, Rolex, Louis Vuitton, all the big brand names. And they buy these watches for 1,000 bucks because they are near clones. And in that world, the You can't tell it from the original. And especially with some of the only way you can tell and looking at the movement. Because a Rolex movement, there's no mistaking a Rolex I don't care how good the A Swiss movement made by Rolex is always going to be known If it is sold in America, there's a factory in China It's just a matter of Manufacturing in the counterfeiting world replicates the manufacturing Wherever manufacturing is cheap, that's where manufacturing These factories can that the real companies use, Often that software is stolen On these Chinese marketplaces, they have a tier for a a tier level where you by the marketplace. They'll have a third-party and check your location for child labor, all the regular things and you can pay for a But there's no telling what these factories are really doing. We know that some Chinese It used to be, the '80s, '90s, the watches would come here by container, and then the logos would be put on in factories here in the United States, in sweatshops right in the That's kind of stopped, because the Chinese that the American with the quality. We find that most of the and Guangzhou, inside Guangdong. China became so good at logistics. It was much easier for people to sell as affiliates and have them shipped or the middlemen. This is how good these QC, which means quality control. They'll send you a and the shipping label, make sure it's the right that the address is correct You say, &quot;Yes, go ahead,&quot; boom. Within a day or so, you'll Watches would be shipped in, say 1,000 watches or 10,000 And the rest of the container would end up being beach balls, you know, cosmetics, or What they do is they ship a distributor in Pennsylvania. They slap a new label on it so it looks more domestic. And when it looks more But most counterfeit watches through the US Postal Service or DHL, shipped individually to the seller. You could buy one watch, you could buy 100 watches. I buy samples from all over the world. One time I had a package sent to me and it was a toy alarm clock. I open it up. There was a watch inside. I haven't received a disguised and I think it's because of how easy it is to get across the border with The watches you buy on the streets, they're usually bought the If you buy 100 of them, So you get 100 of those, but Shipping's going to cost 80, 90 bucks. And they know the Postal and Customs is flooded right now. So it's really kind of a field day for the mailing of counterfeit watches. The US Customs can't inspect They used to say they but I don't even know if with everybody buying $20 Counterfeit distributors don't because the profit is so high. So if something gets they'll just ship you a new one. And that happens very often, Those 10,000 watches, they that'll just be the cost of business. So those obstacles are pretty In my perception, the demand for fakes, non-deceptive counterfeits is simply because people like getting something over on the man. From the '80s until has been pretty consistent I mean, no matter what the people like a bargain, and for something that looks nice. Let me explain the gray market a little. There is a market where people You'll see, you know, 20% There's a gray market where and things are diverted outside of the original supply chain. And once they get here they can sell legitimate products, this including the watch industry. They can sell legitimate products at 10%, 20% off the original price. And they're real. But these companies have databases with those serial numbers in them. And you take it to a real repair shop, they stick it through the database, because a lot of watches are stolen. So you take it to a real repair shop, &quot;Oh, sorry, this watch intended for another place.&quot; So that's why once you buy you're kind of always working underground. So that leaves you susceptible to buying the epic fakes, the ones that are 1,000 bucks. But you're paying six or seven, because you think it's, falls off the truck. And a lot of these companies too that deal in the gray market And what they'll do is they'll and some that are counterfeit, and they'll just mix them all in. Or they'll sell, &quot;You look like a sucker. I'll sell you the fake, and It's a very interesting because it is kind of self-regulated. Obviously they self-regulate You know, if I make a test and it turns out to be So yeah, so there's a lot of So the legitimate ones don't do that. But again, you'll have the shady ones, especially the ones that and they sell genuine secondhand watches, but maybe the one you have is a fake. I tell people whether you're or you're going to have go to an authorized dealer. But yeah, these repair There was a case in the '90s that my father and stepmother worked called the Fort Worth And this guy, his name was Ronnie Cooper. He advertised in all and he would have ads we buy watches, we sell Rolex watches.&quot; And he would even do repairs. What he would do when was he would replace the And he would constantly be doing that. So you'd be buying a genuine watch, but most of the gold was swapped out. And he did this for many years. And jewelers still do that. They're often called Frankenwatches He got five years, the guy. He got five years for mail fraud. That's what they got him on, because all this stuff went through shipping and the Postal The brands don't like the secondary market because they take away from My dad was the guy on Canal who caught the folks that were I grew up in the '80s going and making undercover buys. Canal Street was the epicenter in the entire United States. They had Midtown. That with the briefcases would show up, OK? Those guys would walk around &quot;Psst. Hey, buddy, want to buy Or they would set up a briefcase with legs and they'd be very mobile. In Chinatown, they would with big metal roll-down, roll-up doors. On raid days, they would go with a van or a U-Haul truck with off-duty cops and firemen inside the back of the trucks. And they would have spotters along the way who would go to local diners where they've spotted Then the people would and if they didn't get there in time and the guys rolled down we had industrial-strength saws where we could saw through those locks. It wouldn't be uncommon with a U-Haul truck full of bags, Hefty bags full of counterfeit watches. Actually, I was the only that was walking around Everybody knew it was fake, but you know. During my dad's Canal Street years, he would hire out-of-work to disguise themselves and go conduct undercover investigations. Those people dressed up as everything you could think of, so that they're going and they don't look like the same person. Doing enforcement on Canal He had bodyguards, and he also had constant threats. There were people with There were very often times where people would come right after my father. I've been investigating since 1995. So when I started my company, knew who I was, and they And then I started getting During my undercover buy process, you know, we have undercover identities set up all over the United States, so I could buy from the and they would think it's I have every counterintelligence We do everything we can to make sure that these identities are The brands usually work directly with law enforcement if they can, because it's expensive My cases are typically or a case that law enforcement And then once my case it's put on what I call a silver platter, and then they will pass There's various terminology In the watch industry, a or at least lookalike version with the trademarks of an actual product. But then you have You have, say, $300 to $500 counterfeits, and they're mid-level. And then you have anything under $300, they call them s---ters. The funny thing is those cheap watches, they're the ones you buy on the street. The keywords to find because of enforcement mechanisms. You can't just Google &quot;counterfeit Rolex&quot; or &quot;counterfeit Louis The word &quot;replica&quot; for has been pretty much along with brand names. So they would come up They would also use letter swaps. Like for Rolex, they If you're seeing words dupe, or 1:1, one to one, you're probably looking at a counterfeit. If you're trying to figure out first you need a magnifying glass, and then you want to look at If there's any imperfection One of the great myths is that the genuine has a sweeping hand and the counterfeit has a ticking hand. Well, that was resolved So most counterfeits now So don't be fooled into thinking that's a way to tell a counterfeit from a real. So, I was just handed a and I can tell this one's genuine, because, see, there's a crown logo at the 12 o'clock mark. And the crown logo has an oval at the and that's etched in perfectly. The quality of the is impeccable. The brand name is printed there perfectly. Also with many of these watches, there's a magnifier at the And counterfeiters don't And also the date with the magnifier can just be a little like, if the number's 12, the day's 12, it's going to be exactly there. It's not going to be partially there. And a lot of the counterfeits, they just can't get And the cyclops too. There is, the original brands have a very specific non-reflective material they put on that cyclops that holds it on to the watch. And that's very hard to duplicate as well. So the clarity of the cyclops Also, you'll see the brand Now, the high-end but you do have to look for these things. Also the registered trademark on the back, you can look for that and see if they've gone And with this particular I'd say, probably at least in order to find the serial number, you would have to actually And you would have underneath, underneath the band edge here and here, you'll have a serial number and you'll have a model number. Especially with the Submariner the bezel is very difficult to make. So the Swiss engineering of the bezel is going to be perfect Many of the counterfeits, it's kind of jingly as you're moving it. T-t-t-t-t-t-t-t. A lot of this stuff You look at the quality and you say, &quot;Wait, this isn't real.&quot; Because this is a little shaky, it should be more solid; it's a little light, should be heavier. The counterfeit-watch You deal with all kinds especially here in the United States. You know, bank fraud, In the 1940s, there was a law and it made counterfeiting And that law stood for a very long time. There were no penalties, And then my father along with a very small of folks lobbying the US the anti-counterfeiting And the anti-counterfeiting for each one of these offenses. Currently, the federal So trafficking is illegal federally, so that's where Customs comes in. But most of the sale or is state law. So in New York, New Jersey, California, almost every state has a as a penalty, and also the sale of counterfeits. I've seen people face for selling counterfeits. Often they're the most egregious. But the street-level Just like with drugs. Someone purchasing probably isn't going to or the brand's radar unless they are named or discovered as a Often because purchasing it's not illegal to purchase, and you're bringing things I've seen the civil When my clients want to sue someone, often we'll look for assets. If a person owns a house and these people have the $100,000 in restitution, and a judge will often comply. So I've seen people's lives get ruined by selling counterfeits. It was in the late '80s when the Born to Kill gang, Vietnamese Mafia. One day, his brother who worked with him saw a wanted poster with a $200,000 price on my father's head. Turns out the Born to Kill gang, they were charging all of these vendors for protection, but they couldn't protect So they figured if they killed my father, they would at least alleviate the problem and they would justify And because of that, we every window. And my father told me one &quot;Rob, I know you don't but if I ever say duck or because it might mean your life.&quot; And I always took that seriously When my father's Canal Street work started really taking off, I was uninterested in the family business. I was 17, 18, 19 years old, and I was kind of going But my brother was 13, 14 years old, and he was primed to do this work. He was bred for it. So my brother was running and looking in windows, in factory windows and things like that. I actually rebelled and I went to Bible college. And I decided to drive to LA It turns out I wasn't very funny, but in the meantime, I needed a day job. But then I started going on raids, just like my father, And it was amazing. Los Angeles' area, similar it's called Santee Alley. And it was a several-block area, just like New York's Chinatown. It is filled, filled with counterfeits. In the '90s, Santee Alley, it was the Wild West. Everywhere you went, there I mean, people had them They had them in briefcases. They had them at booths. They had people who rented and paid thousands of dollars for that. Yeah, and then after years in the '90s, my boss retired. In 2001, I started my own company. So, I started my company in '01, and I was working a lot with my father and my brother. So then my father passed in '04. Yeah, after my father died, to continue the family legacy. His company folded because to follow in his footsteps. And then after he passed, and I needed to duplicate myself. And I figured, what better than to partner with my brother? Ever since then, I mean, that we don't think about Dad. I mean, it's hard for me and see something, you know, We grew up watching him work. He was our hero, and we So, yeah, I mean, it's nice. I mean, sometimes I feel