(audience cheers and applauds) - Welcome back everybody. Today is Veterans Day, and sacrifice of millions of Americans who've served in uniform. People like my next guest, they're members of a Texas The group is nearly all veterans, and they've played at military bases, even on the decks of battleships. They're also big offering suicide prevention and helping those suffering from PTSD. That is why they are rad humans. (upbeat music) Please welcome y'all, from and one of its members, PJ. Thank you both for your service. Thank you for your service. First of all, so you both were musicians before joining the military, right? - Correct, yes. - So, I came from a musical family, so my dad was a mariachi and then of course my uncle and he basically gave me so it was kind of cool. But I went from there, you know, and that's kind of my journey. - How about you? they were garage band musicians, I guess, and it kind of inspired me, you know, I'm like, &quot;You So I picked up a guitar at doing some garage bands myself, and picked up a guitar and - Feels good. - So Paul, you served in what was that experience like for you? - Well, that was my eighth - Wow. - So I did Bosnia, Kosovo, And I was part of a reaction force in 82nd Airborne Division, so we went down there and to clear IEDs. - I was gonna say, to clear - Yeah, and interesting we literally looked at the we didn't like, you know, it's And I was infantry, I was a paratrooper, our vehicle got hit with an IED, and subsequently I was because of my injury. So I got traumatic brain injury, PTSD, some things wrong with all those things that people love to get. But yeah, we moved from there, you know, and that's kind of how my journey started. - Oh, wow. Well, you also had a pretty - Yes. - After moving back, - Well, in 2010, my family well, we got attacked basically. And as a Marine, I went in there, and I had to protect my family, and ended up getting shot at the end, and had to go through the rehab at the VA and build my body back But I was able to pick up the guitar and rock out on the stage again, Kelly. - It's such a beautiful that one thing that is kind of a love that you've had since you were younger, and it's so therapeutic. And I feel like a lot of about having PTSD, to have some kind of outlet for - It really helped a lot. I mean, I was really looking and rocking out, and just being live, being live on stage, getting that compassion - You're not just playing, you're feeling. - [PJ] Exactly. - And he learned how to play so he had to do like me, I had to learn how to play drums he had to learn how to basically that. - So what inspired you to start the band? - So I did an event with which pretty much saved my those guys are awesome. And there was another and he had a prosthetic arm, and he was a guitar player before too. So what he did is, he actually and he made it to where he And you know, the people who make the but he made it to where he and he was able to play. And then he ripped it, like he played some Jimi Hendrix stuff, and he was just amazing to watch. - Oh my God. I said, &quot;Man, you know, it would be great if we ever put together all those wounded warriors and get together and do something, he goes, &quot;That'd be a great idea,&quot; and that was my inspiration So I said, well, we're gonna so I called Fort Polk, and performed, and we had and everything in our audience. And what changed my life really is, one of the guys that was bandaged up, came and said, &quot;Hey man, because if it wasn't I was thinking about, you And that's kind of the basis Essentially, we are a rock band, okay? If you strip it all - Uh-huh, I saw the crowd surfing. - Yeah, we're a rock band. - Yeah, and mental health is a huge deal. And you know, we wanna be that person that you look toward When we're at a concert, they Hey man, &quot;I'd like to talk - Yeah, that's very cool, it's a kind thing to do, right? You don't have to do it. - Yeah, we don't have to everything we do is because there's a reason for that, it's because we don't charge We do this on our own dime and from you people that are And you know, we got and that's the only way we do this. (audience applauds) So wait, our friends at the which I know y'all gotta know, H-E-B, love everything Vetted and support their fellow veterans. So to help you continue growing, they're donating $10,000 just to help out. (audience cheers and applauds) - Absolutely. Y'all, Vetted's new single you gotta check it out, it's available wherever And for more information and PTSD resources, y'all, head to our Insta story &quot;Don't let go,&quot; that's what you said. - Don't let go.