Hello, welcome to our channel, please follow us until the end, and make us happy with likes and comments. Spread the plastic on the roof . Ali, the roof is wet. I will go to the city, Saleh, plaster so that I can go to the city to buy pipes and tools, I called the teacher, he said, &quot;I am coming here, spread sand, anything you need, call, spread it, Sohail, don't go into the water, this part of the roof is leaking.&quot; Pull the plastic this way, Gholamshah, send up two buckets of soil, let 's pour it on it . The side is dangerous, why bother? Does it need soil? _Yes, God willing, does he need a soil master ? _No, soil is not necessary, bring mortar , clean it and bring mortar, it should be thicker, the sand was wet and they added water to it, bring the sand, we need to spread it on the skylight and plastic cement, Saleh, come take the mortar, I can't do it, it's heavy Bring soil, pour mortar under your feet, where should I bring the soil? _Thank God, come here, thank God , go to that side, bring two pieces of concrete and leave them here. What are Sadri and Gholamshah doing inside, donkey, go that way, they need help, apparently their car broke down, I am coming now. Hello, how are you?_ Hello, thank you, stay healthy, family. They are in the car and the car is broken. If it is possible to tow it to your car, thank you. Do you have a rope? _No, there is a rope inside the car. You are fine. Thank you very much . I need a pipe, is there an electric water heater? Yes, a small water heater is available. We need a water heater for the kitchen. Is this type of water heater available? Please give the address to the plumber so that he can come . _Yes, is there anything else to buy kitchen plumbing equipment ? _No, these are the ones . I will put them in the car. Please count them. There is no need to pay. _Thank you, thank you. Goodbye, please. For God's sake, Mehran, bring the rope inside the car. It is here. Please send me the plumber's number. Saleh, bring the shovel and come help. It's cold. Saleh, bring the shovel. Help Shahram. Farzana, pour dirt there , Sadri, come and warm yourself. Open it, the oil has run out, who will bring it to us, let's change our clothes, Negar, take the phone so I can change my clothes, go to my dear grandfather, we worked outside, we got wet, it's raining, don't go outside, promise to take a movie. _1.2.3 My dear Navid, come and tell me that I am in daddy's arms, my son, did the rain wet my hair, Nagar? nima Go inside, take it to the school and say that the lamp is broken, is the book yours? The lamp doesn't turn on, it's broken, go to school, then when you come, I'll buy the necessary items and we'll fix it with your help. My city, we froze because of the cold. Why did you wear my clothes? It was cold, you opened it up Saleh's clothes were not warm, I also wore this, thank God, do you want to go to school? _Yes, do you drink water in this cold weather? Go on the road. It's getting cold. We needed a water heater to wash dishes and clothes. Thank you very much. _Please spread plastic on the roof._Yes, let's go inside . _Yes, he hit your head, that means you can't come today , there is no way, it was goodbye teacher, he said my car broke down, I can't come today, we were waiting for him, and now he says my car is broken, his car is broken, he should have informed us, guys, the door Sohail, you have had tea, go back, now that the teacher can't come, we have to do the rest, so get up to finish the plastering, the power went out. Sohail , go get in the water, isn't it cold, dad? Go inside, my son, what is this? It is a water heater, the plasters are dirty, they are enough, did Saleh not come? It's coming now, my hands are frozen, the electricity has been connected _Yes, Saleh, open the window, clean the trowel, Mehran Shahram, bring concrete so I can plaster this part, go to the scaffolding , Shahram, bring the fire, it's too cold, the smoke will bother you, don't bring it to the upper part first fix it so we can remove the board so don't be bothered Sohail - Yes, it's cold, go inside, my dear, Wall - You can't work, my dear, you want to help uncle, your feet will get dirty, my son, come, let's go inside, Saleh Hurry up, the plaster will harden, close the window, Shahram, bring the high school, Saleh, do you know where the high school is? I will look for it outside, Shahram, bring the spatula, it is cold , Sadri and Farzane, go to your children, there is garbage in this plaster, its color is completely different, straighten it, clean the plastic trowel and bring Nima, go inside, you might catch a cold, Ali, Saleh? Let's have lunch with our help, Shahram, bring the things, I will sacrifice for you, it 's enough to promise, go away, it's good, my dear, Shahram, put rice on the plates, I 'll give rice to my grandson, thank you for your support and support, dear ones.... Please like our video