Today, I'm going to teach you whatever you want to call it, beautiful and silky, ready to Alright so firstly it doesn't all of the fundamentals that apply it whether you're on a commercial machine we just enough steam pressure so we can definitely some cheaper smaller the steam pressure to push the makes it more challenging for with these techniques the other cream milk now you can use skim and obviously apply the same you want to produce that silky about for latte art that full best option for you. We also got a great pitcher jug that you can put your milk in around the jug well. This is a going to use it to spin milk. excess milk when I'm going into going to allow me enough time going to give me enough time to the heat that I want. So that good starting point for any barista. So get yourself bigger than that. It's really small that's going to go really to get started. So first things purged our steam wand. All of a steam on before you use it if to your jug of milk before you watering down your milk and yourself the other thing is you right inside this milk jug if I be forced to have the steam wand I'm not going to be able to get too much I'm going to be and add air because it's like this if we're about at the safe amount. But there is other to put the correct amount of gotta think about the air that video put in the description videos on this and I will say, thing for you. So, stick around tell you more about that at the videos that you can watch like milk. This is just a quick got our milk. Now, let's break components that are going to started, happens a bit quick so we want to do, first and spin. Don't want the milk to be you're heating it. You need it because that movement is what's bubbles as you add them. where you get those nice not getting that spin, you're through on itself and actually to create bubbles throughout make sure that we get that spin that spin was with the right of your steam wand to your jug result. Now like I said you steam wand that can can do on this machine's all the way best position for that steam mindful if you're putting it bottom and you're going to just And you're going to get just the jug as it should. If your and you're finding yourself going to have a hard time as use the steam wand spout. control. You don't run the risk shuffling. You don't have to wand into the spout of your jug keep your jug flat. That means top. You could fit a couple of also means that your not doing all these weird angles. wand into the spout. Let's make we're trying then the next where the actual steam wand is to be you need to be just off to be against the wall. If going to run the risk of it and it won't actually spin the get to the centre without create a vortex and you'll whirlpool and a vortex will The way I explain that as you center, you'll actually create vortex will spin the bubbles you refine this, you'll notice closer to the center and that actually watch the bubbles get that's how you refine the craft position, we want to make sure turn on the tips above the surprised bubbles and we don't hit, turn that on, we get our milk around the jug. Once that the air in as early as we're just going to slide down to the surface of the milk and of air adding to the milk. Now, I'm only adding for a second on. Latte, I'll do two three to the steam one pressure and the I'll add that air for longer I'm happy I've added air for lift back up and I'll let the bubbles that I have created and that milk back to and that's I'm going to keep my hand on can feel it go all the way from very once I can't hold that Again, if you've got a slow hold that, it might be a couple it off or a high-pressure get some heat through, you can optimal temperature that we're want obviously get yourself a from our store and you can probably turn that off around continue to heat up until 65 temperature not only for the heat in your mouth but also for you're overheating or even also get a difference in that those elements elements milk alright flat top locked in spin I'm going to slide down to going to add air Just making sure we keep that enough air as I'd like so I've starting to heat up. Can't hold off. Always give that a good wipe that have floated to surface, you can see straight away, I on top of that. Nice and silky, going to get myself a little I beautiful rich Champion blend when you pour your beautiful too so this is my milk it's the domestic machine silky smooth want to get that good latte up spin you can knock out any last step is make sure you've pour you've got this shiny, smooth milk. And that is all or in your home to make If you've learned something comments below. Actually, downloadable PDF that's steps and you can head to the PDF. It demonstrates with with of the steps that I just we walked our cafe partners we've got this guide to ensure consistent. Everyone's making great coffee every day. So, description. You can download you like the PDF, if you like other tips, put them in the read them and reply to them and subscribe to the channel, heaps building a great community of to make great coffee, steam business owners to run video and hit the bell icon and Cheers. Bye.