(water roaring) - [Member] The song we're going (performer singing in Klallam language) (performers singing in Klallam language) - [Narrator] It's a and over 10 years have passed from Washington's Elwha River. (group chattering) The Lower Elwha Klallam tribe is gathering to celebrate their first day of fishing on a free flowing Elwha in over 100 years. (performers singing in Klallam language) (performers continue - But who would've thought, who would've thought - I remember when I was a &quot;You have to take those dams out, son, &quot;you have to take those dams out.&quot; She said, &quot;You have to First dam was huge to me. I was just a little six-year-old and they're just a big monster And how am I going to take that out? (performers singing in foreign language) - It took us 100 years, 100 years to see what And that is something and, the kids, they will be able to say that they were down here witnessing what has taken place in the river over the opening. - [Member] Hold it? - [Narrator] After the dams were out, the tribe waited for the salmon before opening the river to fishing. - [Russ] You know, we waited just to get the dams out. And then we waited another 12 years for the fish to recover enough that we could fish again. And it's very important, that we're back in the water. - [Frances] Our tribal that stepped forward and said that we're willing to take the sacrifice, knowing that it was their - [Russ] Today, we have a truly And hopefully all of We're trying to recover (water roaring) - So we are standing on the remnants of the Glines Canyon Dam. These concrete blocks are - [Narrator] The Elwha was the in U.S. history at the time, with the first dam coming out in 2012 and then the larger - They had this barge out on the reservoir with a giant rock drill on it. The idea was to let the instead of all at once. - [Narrator] One of the first after being released from the dams, was to reclaim some of - [Heidi] The river resumed and the road happened to So it's just (laughs) the - [Narrator] The river runs Heidi and Josh are fish biologists in the river ecosystem They hike to one of the reaches where Heidi uses an antenna to listen for signals They have tagged salmon, The signals give some in the river during But Heidi and Josh also get in the river to collect data and verify - One of our methods for as they reestablished in the We get in the river with because the river is We're looking at fish, You feel kind of like you're I wish I was part fish. It's incredible what these salmon and steelhead and trout can move through. These rivers are the And with the dams in place, it broke the river and it was We're seeing a lot more response from wildlife coming We have more marine derived and salmon and steelhead return. - [Narrator] When these they bring nutrients from the ocean to the Elwha in their bodies. It's a bounty that feeds bears and eagles, and even makes its way - [Heidi] It's just a of all those different organisms that just got kind of (water rumbling) (wind blowing) - [Narrator] After dam removal, the man-made lakes and reservoirs drained and nearly 800 acres of land was restored alongside the river. - Wildlife sign here. We've seen some elk. Yeah, so all of this old which is pretty awesome. - [Narrator] Kim Sager with the Lower Elwha Klallam tribe. - All of this was underwater. So everything we're seeing here, all new growth since dam removal. - [Narrator] She takes us they have set up to document the animals utilizing the restored land. - Let me have a look, see Once upon a time, it was a crazy idea to take these dams out. The wildlife group knew a big change in the once this 800 acres was dewatered. Got some little something With the cameras out here, we're really interested in what species of wildlife are using these Some elk on this camera. So you can see the herd They all just came through. Got some deer. Cougars. When those dams first came I mean, it was literally just mud and sediment and no plant life. And so watching this suite of animals move in has It's kind of a little bit of This is a neat one because this is Moses. Nice, big, beautiful cat eating the elk that he killed in the former reservoir. Lots of snowshoe hares, snowshoe And this one actually is Do you know what this animal is? It's a fisher and it's got a (Kim laughs) So this just demonstrates that these former with plants and animals. - [Crew Member] Oh, he (Kim groans) - [Narrator] The tribe's first day of fishing is going well. (eagle calling) - When I was younger, this river closed before So this is my first year fishing (Jericho laughs) The river had to restore and revitalize and fish had to come back to their traditional Yeah, just trying to teach them. Just trying to teach the next (raven cawing) - That's a hummingbird. a rod and reel. It's odd for all of us. (chuckles) - [Narrator] Traditionally, fishes with nets. The tribal council will be rod and reel. - But there's about six right here, yeah. See, they're all right by each other. Just sitting there like this. - [Narrator] The tribe chose for the opening. - My son caught one, so or I'm going to hear No. (laughs) - [Father] There you go! - You got it? (child babbles) - Is that- (water splashing) - I got a jack right here and probably weighs about, like, 4 pounds. - Here you go, Justice. - [Child] Daddy! - This is really fun It feels really good. Like, to finally fish here, and I could just, like, I so I could just, like, and just go fishing if I wanted. Oh my gosh! I feel like our culture - [Narrator] 10 years and and the river is already This is just the to once again be wild (water rumbling) (no audio) (no audio) - Getting inspiration it's kind of like why you're here, right? Well, you can support more of what we do on &quot;Oregon Field Guide&quot; and by going to opb.org/video and