Let's make a deal. If you step out now, you can save his life. If not , your words will let you see his brains. Don't shoot. I'm out. Very good. Your real name is Yan Shuangying. Yes, there is someone up there. Come with me and shoot them PS/ PP87-3 Come with me and bring a few Communists to ask for the female company commander Gao Linxue. You are really not simple. There is no time to chat. Hurry up and prepare. They will definitely kill the hostages to threaten us. 08-80-313 What are you doing up and walking? Let me go , Lin Xue. You cover me here. Captain Gao. Follow me to the second floor. Walk quickly. Don't push me. Walk quickly. Walk away. Yan Shuangying, you have to pay the price for your actions. I want you to watch. If they are dead , shoot them and leave quickly. Lin Xue, Lin Xue , it's you, Lin Xue. That's great . Qi Ye , Yan Shuangying, Yan Shuangying, are you a human or a ghost? I still have a chance to kill them. Be careful behind you. That's great. That's great. We're saved , we're saved, thank you. What 's wrong? Shen Qiqi, we're saved, we're saved, we're saving people, we didn't see him. Company Commander Gao , Company Commander Lin Xue, was captured by the bandit leader. What should I do? Do n't worry, I'll do it. Will bring her back . Why didn't I move ? This means they are ready. What should we do now? The second plan is easy to go. There is no ambush. It's a bit strange. We need to be careful like last time. We need to be careful and covert and observe. Don't act rashly. What's going on? What's going on, brothers? Don't make chaos. There is only one person. Beat him to death. Catch him alive. Where is he? Who are they? They are our people, your people . Where is China 's Shang Liangu? I don't know. Company Commander Zhui is a woman you can never protect yourself. We are face to face again. I hope. Your luck will be better this time . I think so. I like pressure. Do you like death? You ruined my clothes. You are so funny and you have all your skills. Don't let me just kill you. How about that? I told you. Will it kill you ? Is this your special move? If so, then I'm going to kill you. Come on, come on, kill me. Go to hell. Will your head still move? It doesn't look like your head is like your heart. Look. Boss Lai is absolutely right . The bandits have already begun to evacuate. We are the only ones left in such a big village. Didn't the boss and Mr. Ding leave too? I don't understand what we are asked to do here. We are patrolling . Be careful of the Communists. When the small team came in, I didn't believe they could find our cottage . They came so quickly . Get ready. But they didn't see the main force . There were only a few people from the small team. They were just pathfinders . The big team is behind. Don't worry . Now. What should we do ? Attack them and draw out the large army. It's the three of them. I'll take care of them. Go and do your work. Okay, we should change places. No one is leaving. Be careful to stay behind. Don't put your gun down. Go up and relieve the three of them. Do n't ask me to repeat what I just said. Why didn't you even call me Master ? Didn't you expect it? Although I knew there must be a black hand behind the scenes , I really didn't expect it to be you. I've been resurrected. You seem to be unkillable, right? Well, to be honest, it's not worth mentioning. You didn't kill me that day in front of my old friend's tombstone. It was your trick. You can say it like this. Why did you put so much effort into it ? Do you still remember that night seven years ago? You killed Li Kui, Xiao Yuan, and Shen Qiqi killed everyone. This matter was too big for me to end. Xiao Yuan is dead. The Japanese are unreliable. Besides, if they know that Xiao Yuan and I secretly sell arms, they will definitely do it. They will kill me without hesitation , and the Communist Party will not let me go even more if they know that I am a traitor . Therefore, in that case, I must die , and I must die in your hands. Why does this need to be said? Who else but you? You are so cunning to kill me . Do you know that you made me so miserable that there is no place for me to stand in the Black Gobi ? However, by chance, I met Lao Daobaozi. I immediately understood what to do , so I took control. You know he's not an easy person to mess with , but you're even less likely to mess with him. I don't deny that I got a bunch of guns for him, so I got close to him. One night, I showed up at his bedside and told him I'd be there anytime. You can kill him, but if you want to live, you have to listen to my command. His reaction must be very funny. At first, he felt very angry , but soon he understood that he couldn't get rid of me at all , so he took control of the cottage with the help of Lao Ding , and Lao Dao Baozi only There is only one confidant left, that is Du Qi. He can no longer fight with me, so he has to listen to my mercy. I promise that he will do it openly and I will do it secretly. You know that I am not a pushy person . Yes, I absolutely believe that you want to Is it actual control or do you know me? I have done a lot of things using Shanzhai over the years. I can also think of Xiaoling becoming a special commissioner of the Central Army two years ago. At that time, I felt very strange . She put forward a condition for inclusion. The three cottages worked together to kill Yan Shuangying. Lao Daobaozi came to me to discuss this. This is exactly the result I am happy to see. I agreed immediately and you will know what happened next. It's just that you don't know who is behind the scenes and who is behind the scenes. What matters is the result. What kind of result do you want to see? It's hard to say now. If you dare to show up, it means you are already confident. But you are not dead yet . Now we are face to face again. I have always wanted to know who is the best shooter between us. Now I am confident. All you have to do is move your foot lightly . The detonator will activate and detonate the explosives hidden in the wooden boxes at the feet of these three little beauties. The wooden boxes will explode. Your three little beauties are really good . Not only that, I buried a lot of explosives underground in this cottage. It was originally for your large army. It seems that they have not come. Although this plan is not completely successful , I am very satisfied with being able to send you to the west. It seems that I have no chance, right? This is also prepared for you . They will shoot you after I leave. As soon as your feet leave the detonator, it will start to detonate the three wooden boxes under the feet of these three little beauties. And I think at this time, Old Ding has lit the fuse of the explosive. In a few minutes, this place will be a mess. In the sea of fire, your team is doomed. Isn't this killing three birds with one stone? Brothers, hurry up to the stable and let's go . Brothers, hurry up. Follow up and chase the three little beauties with you. Let's go on the road. I'll leave immediately. Shoot and follow Mr. Ding. Do you understand? I can't see you again. I'm a little reluctant. We will definitely meet again. In the underworld, hurry up, hurry up. How are you doing ? How many explosives are buried here? Where are the fuses? I know you can do it alone. No problem . Go. Da Lian. Are you okay? Lin Xue. There are still bandits here. You two find a place to hide. I'll help Sister Xiaoling. The bandits have been eliminated . Let 's go. What's explosives? What 's Lao Ding? Let's go quickly 08-89 -31 What are you going to do? Thank you. Put your hand down. I said I can't get him. P87k No one can get him. Who is Yan Shuangying ? His eyes just told me that I have lost him forever. P872 P87 K2 . I want you to die with me. Do you hear me? 087-82 87-82 TN T S/ P P87-82 S/ Pp #87-82 TN T 08-89-3 -313 7-82 TNT 18-89-313 DPS/ PP87-82 Sister Xiaoling, go, Sister Xiaoling, TNT 08-80-3 Captain Gao , thank you , I said we would meet again, yes, you said this place is very familiar, right? This is the place where I saw you shot and fell twice . I wonder what will happen today? How did you know I was coming here? Because you were going into Black Tiger Mountain. Who told you? Of course it was the boss. He betrayed me. What did you want me to do? It is said that you are indeed an outstanding planning expert. In order to preserve your strength and avoid confrontation with the large forces of the People's Liberation Army, you first withdrew the team to the Black Tiger Mountain to hide it , and then set up a suspicious formation to attract our attention to your cottage, and then laid it underground in the cottage. It was full of explosives, and when the small team and the large army arrived, you lit the fuse and sent us to the sky. What a wishful thinking, such a perfect plan . But you forgot one thing. This time, I was behind you. When the small team arrived at the mountain stronghold, the large army swept it away. Black Tiger Mountain has wiped out all your men. Now you are alone. You have exhausted all your agencies. This means that we are face to face again. Yes , it is just the two of us. This may be the last time I do this. I have decided to join the People's Liberation Army. Can you? You are really a good brother of Yan Biao. You have been living in conspiracies all your life. Many innocent people died in your hands. Now it is over. You kill people too, right? I only kill bad people. I kill good people and bad people. I am proud of this. Are you faster or am I faster? I don't know . Let's give it a try. Don't you want to say hello to the old guys? This may be the last time. If I die, can you accept me? Goodbye, old guys. Wait, heroes. Come on , shoot. If you shoot him to death, get up and rush in. If anyone doesn't go in, I 'll shoot him. You brothers over there, he's walking so fast in the house. I don't believe you can't kill him. Brothers Yan Shuangying, come over and let's drop the bomb together. Blow him up to heaven. Blow him up . Chase him. Don't shoot. Don't shoot. Shoot. Don't shoot. You're here. You 're a master. You guessed it. But it's too late. It's so funny. I hate it when people hold a gun against me. But there are always people who do this and they won't do it anymore. Is this a trick between you and Shen Qiqi? Yes, he didn't want to kill you. He should n't have said that he didn't dare to kill you , so he found me. Why did you do that scene? He was afraid. I can't kill you face to face, so he asked me to appear behind your back. You betrayed Zhu San Leng. Shen Qiqi knows you too well. He knows that you won't sit still and wait for death. No matter how many people you kill, you will kill him. He made Zhu San Leng. It's just a cover-up so that I can stand behind you more easily, just like I am now. Poor Zhu San is stunned. He is a stupid pig and he deserves to die. To exchange the lives of a few idiots for yours can be said to be too worthwhile, maybe. What 's the hard thing on your back? It's a steel plate. I understand. Actually, I don't want to be like this. It was Shen Qiqi who insisted on doing this. I believe that I can kill you even if we face each other . It seems that your confidence is back. I have always been confident that I will give you a chance . What did you say to give me a chance ? Yes, didn't you think about it? Why did I collect the body for you? What do you mean, you are still not smart enough. In fact, I just said that I have discovered your trick , right? Why didn't I pay attention? That means you are too careless. Remember what I just said, your back is padded. What's so hard? If I didn't notice it, why would I ask you this? When I touched the gun on your waist, you moved it and my hand stopped. Do you remember? Hahaha, the great hero would still pull this little trick when he was about to die. Do you think I am still the same me? If you tell me, do you still have bullets in your gun? I will go and see. I tell you that you are finished. You will not have another chance. Yan Shuangying, do you know why you are not the best gunner? I want to hear this because you are a villain, and I am a villain who is about to become the number one sharpshooter in the black neighborhood. Why haven't you understood after talking for a long time that you are not dead ? Zhu San is stunned and not dead either . Hahaha. It's so humorous. You are so funny, Zhu San Leng. Now you believe me, hahaha. I said no, I will never have the chance to face you again. I promised you I will give you another chance. Is that true? Zhu San Leng, please stand over. Let's get started. Now we have the result. It seems that you didn't understand what I said to you 2 years ago. Why were you slower than me just now ? That's because I want to give you another chance , a chance to be the number one sharpshooter , but you don't need you now. What do you think? You saved yourself again. I heard that you never let go of bandits and made an exception for you . Maybe we are destined. Let's go. This is the second time I let you go and the last time.