Senior brother, senior brother, are you okay? Senior brother, senior brother, please go back and tell your master that I will wait here until he comes. Senior brother, get out, get out, get out, get out, get out, get out , please make way . It doesn't matter. Senior brother, please make a concession . Come on, senior brother. Senior brother , are you okay? Senior brother, are you okay? Senior brother, are you okay? Stop, I'm going to search you. Fight well, Master Yue. Come on, beat, beat , beat, beat, beat, Yoshida . This is the place for the Chinese. It is not your turn for the Asians to run wild here. As long as you beat me, I will leave here immediately. It seems that I didn't beat you enough last time. This time, I want to see how you turned into a dog with your tail between your legs. What are you waiting for? Come on , okay, okay , what's going on ? What's going on? If you hit me again, you'll be killed. Master Yue is no longer alive. Yes, Master Yue is afraid that he's dying. How could it be like this? Yes, master, don't hit me anymore , master. What are you doing? Okay, master. How are you? Master, let's go back. Let's not fight. Let's go back. Master, hold on. Master , what are you doing? Go away. Come on, please go slowly. Hey, if you have the chance, come here often. Please come in . Please come in. Please come in. Hello, hello . Sir , please come in. Please come in. Sir, please put your pipe out. Get up, get out, come on. Sir , don't run. Sir, don't run. What are you doing ? Tell me where the opium is. I don't know. Tell me, what are you doing there ? Yeah, search it all for me . Is it all there? Is it okay? Let me take it away. Are you okay? Stop. The essence of Chinese martial arts is to seek tranquility, softness , and hardness while moving externally and internally. Therefore, those who practice martial arts must Be patient and calm . It's on fire. It's on fire. Come and put out the fire. We can let Qin Yulan go. Now the captain can take action soon. If you were fooled , hurry up and withdraw. You tell me It's absolutely fine. We at least delayed it. In their time , if they find out and chase us, we are walking on a mountain road now, they won't find our Mr. Ma so easily. Well , don't worry, I'm here with you. Even if they catch up, they won't be able to hurt you. Right, Mr. Ma has Mr. Tang. We don't have to worry . I hope God will bless you. Ma Ye, Ma Ye, Miss Moon, are you back? Ma Ye, where did Ma Ye go? He went out. He went out. Well, Ma Ye went out to pick up the military department. I want to find Major Hei Mulong. What happened? What's wrong with women? Ma Dewang's whereabouts have been exposed. Immediately gather people and help me set off . Hey, which way should we go? Why don't we split up and find Liu Fei to follow me? The mountains are so big and the woods are so big. Sister , I don't know which way Ma Dewang is going. How to find the road ? The direction is not wrong. Besides, we have already separated several ways to search. We can definitely find it . Liu Fei, hahahahaha, Liu Fei, hurry up, what are you going to do? Hurry up and find the captain. Come on, Huang Tai, hurry up and say goodbye . Why didn't you chase him ? Is it necessary to tie him up? Captain Du, brother Liu Fei, why are you injured? I was injured by Tang Chuan. Second sister Xiang couldn't beat him alone. He was caught. Where are you? Take me to rescue her . Yes , yes . If you go like this, you won't be able to save Xia'er's own life, and it will cost you. Let's quickly gather everyone to discuss and leave. Bai Sanxing , it's not that easy for me to kill you. Miss Miao, hahaha, you want Miss Miao , you have the guts. Just come out and stand up and I'll say it. 3 You really want to save Miss Miao, right ? Are you sincere? You want sincerity, right? OK, use me in exchange for Miss Miao, how about I be your hostage ? Humph Bai 3 What do we need you for? Do you think we are stupid? Mr. Ma, you listen to me on this matter . Hahahaha. Bai 3. You have the guts. Huang Tai caught him. Sir Bai, you don't have to do this. Miss Miao, don't worry . I Bai 3 owe you the Miao family today. Ah, I paid Bai 3 back to you, and I feel at ease now . Hahahaha, Sir Bai, I haven't seen you for so many years, but you still haven't learned to be wise. Kneel down and kowtow. I 'm already your hostage and you want me to kowtow to you. Stop daydreaming. Hurry up. Let Miss Miao go. Let 's go . Let's go . Boss, be careful not to shoot. Be careful to hurt Miss Miao. Brother, what are you doing? Wait for next time. Will they catch up ? What if they keep chasing ? What should I do if I don't let you go ? Mr. Ma, don't worry. We have hostages. Oh, although we have hostages, you must not despise these guerrillas. I know this better than you. How about you go first ? I will take the hostages and lead them away. How about this? Is this possible? Okay . Didn't you see Bai 3? That kid would rather die than be saved. This shows how important he is. If I lure him away , they will definitely come to save him. I won't chase you, how about let's go, okay, um , captain Bai, Brother Bai, hey Niu Fei, why are you injured? Sister Xiang'er and I were sneak attacked by Tang Chuan. Sister Xiang'er was caught just now. We also met him. It's a pity that that dog Where did the sun go? Cai Biao stayed in the north to take care of Liu Fei. The others followed me. It 's getting dark. If you can't find it again, it will be hard to find . Hey , look at the smoke. Go away . You can get rid of it as soon as possible. You want to run away. It seems that Tang Chuan is planning to spend the night here. Captain, what are you waiting for? Why don't you fuck with them? Captain, why didn't you see Ma Dewang? Ignore him for now. Save Xiang'er . If I'm obscene, I'll be obscene for you. If you don't want to eat, go away . Let go of you, you are obscene. Go away. Let me go. Hahahaha, don't move. Don't move. Yongchuan, bullying a woman is nothing. If you have the ability, I won't challenge you in a one-on-one fight. You want to be pretty? Get out of here. Yongchuan, let go. What do you think? I really don't dare to kill him ah ah ah go away hurry up ah ah ah Yongwei I tell you, if you want her to live, just be more sensible , ah, the girl is hungry, eat something , ah, ah, I said Huang, are you right? I should walk around and see if there are any enemies. Ah, okay, I'll go take a look. Hahaha, girl, there are only two of us left. Hey, get out of here. Hey , hey, hey, hey, you're angry. Hey, don't be angry. Wait, I have something to say. If you have something to say, what do you have to say? Help me kill Bai San. He is my father-killing enemy . You also saw just now that he can sacrifice himself to save me. He has always felt guilty towards me and wants to compensate me , but no matter what he does, Compensation can't buy my father's life . Hahahahahahahahahaha I thought it was such a big deal. Don't worry. I've wanted to kill this guy for a long time . Since you brought it up, I promise you that of course you will keep your word. After the good thing comes to pass, I will obey you . Really hahahaha . Girl, does this arm still hurt? Nonsense , I'll give you a knife. Tell me whether it hurts or not . Actually, I, Tang Chuan, am really a compassionate person. So I couldn't help it just now, right? Hey, girl, take a good rest. My arms have been tied by you and they haven't recovered blood. Why don't you let me go first and let me move around. This way the injury will heal faster. My arms have been tied by you and they still haven't recovered. Why don't you let me go first? Open me and let me move. This way the injury will heal faster. I can't believe it yet. You know, come and sit down. Please sit down . Oh, is that you on the yellow stage? Why don't you go and have a look? Anyway, I'm tied up with you and I won't run away. I told you just now that my purpose is to kill Bai 3. Well, you are waiting for Huang Fei . Huang Fei, what are you doing? Are you okay? Where are you going? Hey, don't you want revenge? Miss Yulan, it's time to eat . Now, Ma My life and death are uncertain . Where can I eat? Hey, Master Ma, it would be great if you came back. I have been worried about you. I am afraid that something might happen to you. This time is really too dangerous. If it weren't for you, Master Ma, I would have been very lucky. I'm sorry, Mr. Ma. It's all the guerrillas who forced me to do it. I can't do anything about it. Baby, Mr. Ma, I don't blame you. Hey, Mr. Ma , the food is ready. Let's go eat. Let's go and prepare a pair of bowls and chopsticks . Miss, that's right, Ma. Master, why are you back so soon ? Aren't you going to Liujiawa? You're not going. Well , I knew something was wrong when you called me back that day. If the Japanese hadn't forced me to leave as scheduled , I had no choice but to use tricks along the way. I came to lure these guerrillas away . Unexpectedly, they still caught up. What happened next? Tang Chuan said that he helped me lure away the guerrillas and let me go to Liujiawan to meet Cui Dachang. Hum , but when I thought about it, these guerrillas Chasing me like crazy , if I let them know that I'm not with Tang Chuan, they will definitely be suspicious. Oh, if that's the case, the guerrillas are not fools. They will definitely chase me in the direction of Liujiawa. If that's the case, My life is really not saved. Instead of doing this, I might as well escape like a golden cicada and run home like a guerrilla. He would never dream of me doing the opposite. Hahaha, Mr. Ma, you are so smart. The key is that you came back to Japan like this. How do you explain to people? They will be angry . Don't worry. Japanese, I have a way to deal with him. Please go and make me a soup. Is it delicious? Yes , it's delicious. It's really dangerous this time. Eat more . Here . Yes, yes, yes, yes, I asked you to do the work of instigating rebellion. Fortunately, you ran back halfway. Now the news has leaked, and you ruined my plan. Commander, I was attacked by the guerrillas before I was halfway gone . I almost died. I ran back. I had no choice but for my quick thinking. I wouldn't have gone in the direction of Liujiawa. Where could I stand in front of you and talk now? What you saw was my corpse. You are so clever at using your brains. The Chinese people are really smart at this. It's all for your consideration. From the very beginning, I, Ma Dewang, have never rejected my work for the imperial army. I have long decided to devote myself to the imperial army and die. But I , I, Ma Dewang, will die even if I die. It is valuable. I am so inexplicable. It would be too unjust for him to die. Moreover, Colonel has lost a confidant who can do things for you. This is nothing but a loss for you, Colonel. It seems that you think more about me. That's why I do everything for you and the imperial army. Yeah . Forget it , after all , it was the guerrillas who ruined my plan. Yes, yes. The guerrillas are indeed too hateful. Since you provided information and contributed to the elimination of the New Fourth Army transportation station near Kangcheng , we will not pursue this matter. You go back and have a good rest first and wait for my orders, yes, yes , but those guerrillas won't let me go, they will come to kill me. Can you send more troops to protect me? Don't worry, you are us. Friends of the Imperial Army , we will definitely protect your safety and will not allow these guerrillas to take advantage of you. That's good. That's great. Thank you, Master Ma . You're back. Mr. Ma , Mr. Tang, you're back too. Master Ma , you see Colonel. What did he say that Colonel Ma didn't make things difficult for you? Fortunately, I was able to do things well before. Otherwise, Colonel, can you let me go? Well, look at you, you are also injured. You were injured by the guerrillas, right? Mr. Tang, no. That diamond , don't take this porcelain job. I always thought you were quite capable . But you ca n't even protect yourself. How can you protect me? Fortunately, I, Ma Dewang, am smart. I had an idea and I ran back. If I expected you to count on you and me. I don't know how you are going to die now, Mr. Man, are you still going to Liujiawan ? Why are you going to die? It's me who told you not to go out recently. Take more precautions inside and outside the house and be smart, okay ? Please, captain , you don't know that we ran, ran, ran, chased, chased, chased, that guy Ma Dewang was absolutely cunning, and he didn't even see a ghost in Liujiawa. I doubt this guy even went there. Ah, we were fooled by this guy named Ma. The captain traveled more than 200 miles and went back and forth for more than 400 miles. Look, I must let this guy Ma Dewang taste what it's like to run more than 400 miles. You don't have this chance. I tell you that Ma Dewang has already After returning to Kangcheng, he will definitely not come out after hiding in the house . Hum, old fox , you said you have to wait for Ma Dewang to come out of this house . How long should we wait ? Captain, I have received a letter from the leader of the detachment. What's the matter? There is a new mission. There is an old mission . The leader is already angry about the new tasks that have not been completed. He asked us why we haven't eradicated Madwan. Several communication stations have suffered losses. The leader has given us a limit of 5 days to eliminate Madwan within 5 days. This was originally a simple task . The chief must be angry after such a long time, but he only gave 5 days. Think about how many times Madwan has been assassinated by us and we have failed. He must be hiding in his room and refuses to take a step forward . No matter how difficult it is, he still has to complete 5 days. If we can't finish it within that time , let 's just go home and farm for 5 days. Hey, brother Lu, come to me . Yeah, that's right . It's time to eat . I understand . You go first. I'll mend my clothes. Isn't it my clothes here ? Yeah, do you think you will not take care of your clothes and break through several holes and break it . I see you mending clothes, hahaha. What's so funny about mending clothes ? You can just make do with it and wait until the end of the year. I'll save some money and make you a new one. Hey, hey , hey, hey , don't look at the clothes. What's there? Good -looking, hurry up and eat, I will come up and come up. Oh , yelling, then I go first, hey , hey , hey, hey, hey hahahahahahahahahahahahaha , no knowing who won the end, hahahahahaha This god of plague can't walk without eyes. Let me help you. Thank you. That person also hit me. I don't know what happened in such a hurry to be reincarnated. Thank you. The poison has been planted. This poison is very toxic. As long as it touches one Dot and Dian will definitely die. You said that Ma Dewang is quite able to enjoy drinking such a good Longjing tea. If only Madewang drinks this tea, his family will not be implicated. Hmm , huh. This may be the last time that Ma Dewang drinks such a good tea. You are so If I offend you in the future , wouldn't you do this to me? No , if you offend me, I won't deal with you. This poison only poisons enemies as well as one's own. Who is your own? Ha, Yamada-kun. Ah, this is the best West Lake Longjing tea I just bought. Please try it. Mr. Lightning , what do you want to teach me this time? Please teach me. I dare not do the opposite. Today I am here to ask Mr. Ma for something. Oh, please ask me. Okay , okay, I'm willing to serve Yamada-kun. That's great. If you say so, I'll be straightforward. Please tell me. I hope Mr. Ma can provide me with some information about the underground party. Haha, this colonel ordered that my information can only be given to her. One person can't give anything to others casually . Come on, let's have tea first and leave. Mr. Ma , this is a little thought. Please accept it, Mr. Ma. Hahahaha , Mr. Ma, you and I are both smart people. I also know Mr. Ma's information. I will fully provide it to the colonel. I just hope that I can perform well in front of the colonel. I hope Mr. Ma can help me more. It's easy to talk , Yamada -kun, we are good friends , so it's right for me to help . I, Ma Dewang, also want you to be promoted to a higher rank. Hahaha, Mr. Ma, you promised to help me. Yamada-kun , please wait a moment. I will go get you important information. Come back right away, Nagakawa, don't move , Tangchuan, you dare to attack me, I tell you, don't think that you don't know the heights of the sky . If I want to kill you, it will be easy. You have seen that they are all my bodyguards , and I am now I have a Japanese as my backer. If you dare to touch me, try and see what happens. Are you brave ? If you dare to peek at my woman, you are now my dog and a guard dog. If you don't want to, you can get out right away . If you want to stay , just watch the door for me. What I want to warn you is that dogs will recognize their own owners. Tang Chuan, don't make yourself worse than a dog. Do you understand? Go , blast, blast. I have long sensed that Tang Chuan has evil intentions. Follow me. You said you still don't believe it, oh, I know it in my heart , as long as we are careful in the future, okay, Lord Lightning , Lord Lightning, Lord Lightning, this tea is poisonous , how did you manage to let the guerrillas poison one of my officers at Ma Dewang's house? The target of the drug guerrillas must be Ma Dewang . This matter must be investigated to the end. We cannot allow these guerrillas to run amok in my jurisdiction. It can be said that the Colonel's guerrillas are pervasive. They will definitely continue to act. We must investigate. No detail should be missed to fill in the gaps. Their goal is Ma Dewang. They must continue to guard against Captain Gao. Hey, when adding more troops, we must protect Ma Dewang closely. We must seize the time to kill all the guerrillas. Captain , how did the operation fail? Madewang's fate is really high . You said that you only poisoned one Japanese officer. Just brag about it every day. You really can't do anything about it. Poisoning is really not easy to do now. The Japanese army has strengthened the protection of Ma Dewang. Even when a servant buys groceries, he has two bodyguards following him. If it's hard to start , forget it. You try your best and think of other ways . I really can't think of any other way. If this old fox doesn't take action, I won't be able to do anything to him. If there is any difficulty for a person, there will definitely be a way. From the current point of view, there will be a way. Tang Chuan is our biggest obstacle. Find an opportunity to get rid of Tang Chuan first. Maybe there will be a chance.