My name is Jimmy Tsui. I have a nickname as Bighead. I'm a former high-level member of the largest triad, Sun Yee On. I decided to leave my life because I got sick and tired of it, and I almost got killed in 1992. I got shot five times. Do I know the person who shot me? Yes, I know the person who shot me. But I don't know why he How many triads in Hong Kong? I can tell you there's a lot of triads. Sun Yee On, 14K, Shing Wo, Shui Fong. My situation is a bit special I'm from New York. And in New York, I already have When I joined the Tung On a couple of former members in Tung On, they are from Hong Kong. When they in Hong Kong, they already are triad. So after they come to the United States, they still have a connection Because some things happened, 1985. I remember. So, after I got out, the couple of members I mentioned before from &quot;Hey, Jimmy, you want to Maybe you can go outside because you were already I went back to Hong Kong with them. They took me to a restaurant, And then afterward, a guy come down, but he didn't look like He looked like a businessman. They never mentioned this So the leader asked me like, &quot;What you do in New York? What's your position in New York?&quot; And I tell him the whole thing. So he's saying that, because I already on my under level, all the kids who follow me, they will become a Sun Yee On too. For the ceremony, there's a We have to swear a lot and we had to drink blood wine. And then the first thing, I will speak in Cantonese because I don't know how to The rule for the triad, the main rule is you obey You obey your main boss. There's only one main so you must obey him. And never against each other, and never steal money from each other, and never lie to each other, and never take girl from each other. My boss give me, as I remember, two, two nightclubs to collect which they call protection money. The shareholders must be, for the nightclub is our member. In America, you can say that's extortion, but they'd be willing to give out money for the protection in America. But in Hong Kong, you must be a shareholder and then you have your own I tell you -- honestly, I tell you -- we are there every night, at least 20 days a month. We got used to it, just like going to work. Just, like, every day OK, let's go to this nightclub tonight, let's go to that nightclub tonight. Every night is like that. For me, I got two nightclubs to collect. Every nightclub, they give So a month, I get, like, 40 grand, without doing something, But for the big ones, as 100 grand a month for each general. Back then, the triad business always production company, bowling alley. That's a legal business. And for the underground business, maybe money laundering, They have business right In New York, in LA. They Back then, I can say, they have connections in Hong Kong. They all have connections in Hong Kong. The generals from the other group, they start a business of drug trafficking. Back then, it's very into United States. Maybe they have some They tell the girl to and pick up something At that time, it's very easy. It's not like right now. When the time I'm in Hong Kong, the movie business, I can say that is all controlled by triad. If you don't listen to triad, Not even a spot. You don't listen to them, There's a movie star come &quot;I'm not a triad,&quot; whatever. You believe them? You believe them. OK. But for me, I don't believe them. A lot of famous movie they are triad members. A lot of people don't know. And we know. Every gangster got a nickname because we don't want to use Easy to remember. I got big head, and my name's A lot of people are called Jimmy. So they won't forget, they They have a nickname for monkey. They have a nickname for They have all kind of nickname. They have all different kind of handshake, like different position. They have different kind of handshake. Sometimes you do this, and then you show with your hand sign, and then they know what's your position. Maybe the guy who you're and then you show him the and then he don't know because he's only a soldier, so he only can show So if I saw it, you're only a soldier, I don't want to talk to you. Tell your boss to come out, like this. They don't use that no more. The generation after the They don't care about this. They just care how many people you have, what kind of power you In Hong Kong, I'll never If I go to this nightclub, will follow me, go into nightclub. So they knew. They knew you're triad. We got experience. We can tell who's a triad, who's a cop, and who's a businessman. We can tell. For triads, they have a couple levels. But for Sun Yee On, the they are all controlled by one family. No other people can take their position. Every generation, they will pass down, like father and son, So it's all controlled After the top level, the We call it 426. After the 426 is the soldier. For the soldier, they call it 49. And after the soldier, that's the people who hang out but they are not a member yet. This is the main structure of the triad. Of course, they have a lot like white paper fan. That's the guy who There's another position that's for passing out the message. A special guy doing that. Now, at this century, a So only got left is the soldier, and the blue lantern. I only saw my boss in Hong But I know his family members. When I get to the general position, the boss will give you a couple places, like, couple of business places, for you to collect money every month. That's our salary. I just make sure they are they don't step out of the line. And that's what I did. If somebody step out of the line, OK, there's so many people in the group. So many people. Always, things happen, because you cannot control everybody. I never did that before, but what I heard, the worst thing, they got killed. That's the worst. If they did something against the company, against the group, they will get killed. After me, I have a couple of soldiers -- they are in the group for a long time, they have experience -- They are doing all the management. So this thing won't happen. But sometimes in the other groups, this thing did happen. That's what I heard. Hong Kong's really small, They all have their own district. Like, you control this part, and 14K controls the other part. But you know how the gangster is. They always want to increase their power. So they step in the district and the war is gonna start. When I was in Hong Kong, I saw another general in Sun Yee On, they have something going They start a war. They want Yeah, I saw that before. But this always happened Back then, in Hong Kong, but they don't use guns. They always use knife, because in Hong Kong the Even though they have a gun, they're hardly going to bring Almost impossible for people to get a gun license in Hong Kong. When the time I was in Hong always the gangsters from They bring the gun from China, then they use it in Hong Kong, and then they ran back to China. But for the original members in Hong Kong, they hardly use the gun. OK, maybe the lower-lower-level guy, but not the general. And if a fight starts, only the soldiers who start the fight. If we saw something and we know the war going and then the soldier forward. Different triad members, they are together doing It's money talks. Easy, it's money talks. If one general, he thinks and he want to share or share out with different Hong Kong is real small, I tell you. So you have to friend Back then, in Hong Kong the whole prison is run by the triad. The triad got more power than In the '60s and '70s, all the police was corruption, They worked together. Until now, no. Impossible. You can't. It is very strict right now. You do something they don't like, you will disappear forever, and people cannot find you. And you are not facing jail I decided to quit my gangster life. I got shot five times, and after that, I said, &quot;No more.&quot; I got sick and tired of that, because I'm getting old. The So I want to return to my I know the person who shot me, but I don't know why he Afterward, I found out. Because my soldier, under me, people under me shot their member two weeks ago. So they know I'm the general of them. So he shot me. At that time, I was at home, So I have to go down and try to buy a cigarette in the grocery. When I closed my driver's-side door and I check out the side mirror, I saw someone came out from a car behind, and then he started to shoot. And then the ambulance come, like, after at least 15 minutes, as I remember. They brought me to the Elmhurst Hospital, and they do a surgery, and then the doctor come by and tell me that, &quot;We and there's still a So I asked him, &quot;Why don't you And he was telling me that, &quot;Because that bullet is so that bullet's going That's what the doctor says. What do I have to do to leave? Actually, nothing. I just tell my soldiers. Because I have couple of soldiers, who control all the kids already. I just tell them that, starting the gambling house money, whatever, I'm going to give up everything. You guys take care of and anything happens, Even though after I left, I start working, and the FBI come to me, ask me questions. I say, &quot;I don't know In the '90s, the FBI, all the leaders, all the gangsters got arrested Without our help, they cannot stand in the United States no more, and then they back off and now disappear. The first beginning of Hung Mun. Hung Mun is the first one. After that, they split out from Hung Mun to all separate triads. They call it triad for in the southeast area. So inside that area, they Government people, they call them triad. And then they start to Sun Yee On in Hong Kong almost in all the Southeast Asian area. At my time, they have, and all over the world. They have a pretty long history. For all the high-level they become a businessman now. They doing legit business. All undergrounding is only for the lower-level members. I was born in 1965 in Hong Kong. I born in the district called Yau Ma Tei. Inside Yau Ma Tei, there's a At that time, the whole street So when I was real young, I And my father saw, like, I'm getting worse, my behavior's getting worse. So he decide to immigrate the whole family to the United States. At that time, there's a in Chinatown. Always waiting like after school. They try to do something to us and try to scare us and If we don't, we have to for protection, but we keep refusing them. One of my classmates, he told us that we should go look for and he's the leader of the Tung On gang. My classmate got killed they thought my friend but which at that time we are not. So we asked Clifford Wong &quot;Why don't guys just join our gang?&quot; So officially we joined the Tung On gang. I start as Tung On When I become a member So I was already in the gang life for, like, eight years already. We have a channel on YouTube, We started telling the true We want to do the best we can to find every former gangster member, no matter what level they so that the world knows I just want to say that, don't trust anybody except your parents. Don't trust any movie story. You are not a hero in the gang life. If you're really in the only two final ways out. First, you gonna end up in Second, you're going to get killed.