Hi, I'm Jessica. Thanks for taking the time to who is at risk and the tactics traffickers use to Unbound, I've educated thousands of youth, school community members and more -- because training we can prevent this exploitation Most trafficking situations start unmet needs or desires in a person's In labor trafficking, common risk low levels of education, a debt that needs to be many cases, labor trafficking victims are and kept there through threats and violence. With sex trafficking, common risk factors include substance use, homelessness, mental illness, involvement in the commercial sex With child sex trafficking, common risk child sexual abuse, chronic abuse learning disabilities, low socioeconomic promotion of sexual exploitation by family emotional distress, family dysfunction, substance One group that's often underrecognized sex trafficking victims may have an Our culture often pictures males as perpetrators crimes, and there may be even greater stigma from reaching out. A study published by Love 146 half of the commercially sexually exploited youth . underage male victims is homelessness. Boys may be or have run away due to family dysfunction, Many youth who identify as gay or are their homes or having experienced significant This puts them in an extremely vulnerable One thing that may set boys apart is the to the needs presented by homelessness. Boy rather than a third party trafficker. They are they are in control of the situation, therefore a likely to be drawn in by a buyer offering to meet Let's watch this video that and how his friend notices Then we'll dive into the tactics traffickers Oh my God we got him! Dude, we finally got him! I know! That skin is in level three, it... What was that? It's nothing. It's just something I do later. OK, how do we get it? So level 3, about midway through the level, there's a door... Um, I need to go. Ya, ya. Thanks for inviting me over. The tactics of traffickers can be broken down into use violence or threats of violence against Lies or false promises. Traffickers may tell the restaurant, only to discover it's actually sex success and freedom as bait. We've seen several work in a strip club to save up money and gain forces her into selling sex. Traffickers gain their trust. The trafficker may help the Over time, however, the trafficker may owe them and need to give something back. Lastly, devotion of the victim. According to Polaris is the most common way traffickers initiate An example of this last tactic is a survivor On her 16th birthday, Macy was scrolling through of the "happy birthdays" from dozens of friends, One message in particular caught her eye: a cute with some compliments she hadn't heard in awhile. soon, Macy felt like she was in love. She'd empathized with the depression she'd been dealing After talking for a few months, they decided it single mom, she worked hard to make ends meet and school. But one night, Macy snuck out to meet in That's when she realized the truth - he wasn't but at this point, she loved him enough to forgive with her. That was enough. That's when her as her "boyfriend" soon became her trafficker. A desperate mother was calling for help. Her raped at gunpoint, beaten and abused. With the her daughter, Macy, kept running away She knew her family was in danger, but she down for services too many times due to Macy's Unbound was her final call. Thankfully, Unbound management to help any human trafficking victim One common tactic of traffickers we see with and that's why it's so important for and monitor their online activity. Messaging and using whatever names and images they want As in Macy's story earlier, the building their relationship Child predators and traffickers often use online A predator may befriend a boy through messaging, or credit. He may then use these favors to Once he has those, he can use them as Another major risk for trafficking is sexting has become normal among teenagers. they can trust and want to gain the From there, that other person But it's not always a child on the other end. Texas was arrested on charges of producing was allegedly pretending to be a young girl boys to send him naked photos. He would then ask If the child refused, he would threaten to send victims, a 12-year-old boy in North Carolina, sparking the investigation and arrest. They found Everyone has unmet needs and to be aware of those who have many These members of our community are We also must be aware of the role technology predators and traffickers to our young people. puts any person with a smart phone or approached by a trafficker. In a recent study youth prevention program, Keeping Students recognized the tactics of a trafficker By educating yourself and others about the part of saving a life. Take a minute to add the so you're ready to make a report if needed. It's Then head to unboundnow.org to learn how you