(Coach) Alright this is how Taylor and Georgia will go in and everybody else in Take your marks, go! Georgia and Brile you can because Nikita has to do It is three weeks out This is their one chance to qualify for the World Glasgow opens the doorway My job is to get as many (Hamish) Feeling good mentally, Down in Wanaka it's a bit lonely many Para swimmers, but up here (Coach) Hamish see how you go mate, 100 swim, the last 15 into the wall, (Nikita) It's weird having a lot of because normally At home I only have me, (Coach) When you are on that's where I'm going, I'm to get there as quickly as possible. And we know about we want to go through A year ago she could barely and just over a so yeah just got Keep your head down You were that close but every time the head Take your marks, go. (Georgia) Training has I've gone under the but it doesn't really count for just because the coaches doesn't meant they are (Coach) One thing that you and the occasion, but if she and follows the processes fast then she should go well. Good girl, 39.8. Nice and (Jesse) When it gets this close to a meet, We've lightened up on the training where usually we'd do 6-7. The intensity is dialed right when it comes to a meet, you (Coach) Jesse has not had He's been out He's got to go very close to his personal to qualify and he has to do a It's a big ask. (Jesse) I've had a few names for I used to get called, "Robo "The kid with one leg," that I see myself as a regular who has a passion Morning. How was training? Yeah it was alright. A bit cold. (Jesse's Mum) Jesse is part of a big family; There is Jesse, Brittany and Angel down here who's as well and both of (Jesse) I'm looking at moving and then training at The High The financial side will be very difficult and not having to so it will be tough I think. I think it was kind to go to the Paralympics It has been what I have Now it is becoming (Mother) Jesse has been an He got through varying We were told that he might and at 17 months he was standing If I look at all of these (medals), dedication that has (Coach) Jesse was born Jesse's main event is As a lower limb amputee he's going to be competitive at Sprint events in Para sport tend to be dominated by However, swimming is mainly kick tends to give you a good your arms to pull. So over the longer distances and the ability to be more than his opposition and we see the strengths of Jesse. (Nikita) I'm Year 12 at and swimming is my main thing behind sometimes and focus I'm not dumb, but you could and everything is going all school continues this way going to do with my swimming. (Teacher) Economics, so today economics of the cricket world (Nikita) In class we are studying I'm not too happy about cricket and I don't like cricket interesting but we I'm quite slow at typing, so try to use a keyboard People call me, "Nikita No Hands." It's not I'm like, "Yeah I've got no hands," (Friend) I just remember my mum "that chick with no and she's going to be so And then I watched her The only thing I can't do I can't wait for Worlds this year Now I'm tops, I have to so it's going to be a (Coach) Nikita was Nikita is a super, larger than always joking, she's real fun, The desire to smash her any athlete I've ever seen when she races. I think one of terms goes back was 'A big time Charlie' So going into the call room, "I really hate it its nerve racking," but it really fires her (Hamish) I've got Achondroplasia, which means I have (Physio) So your back was sore Yes when I was doing backstroke, I felt like I couldn't Maybe we might back off the competition just to And then we'll get you before you head up North and (Hamish) Having a back injury I feel annoyed at myself People with Achondroplasia back injuries since they have a These are the medals from My main event is the I'm four seconds off It seems like a lot but literally which from all the adrenaline When you get up on you are ready to go thinking about when (Hamish) The process of going to pace myself. Try and the race and decrease that (Coach) So nice and think about keeping Take your marks, go. (Hamish) Training is very I'm taking it pretty about school which are high (Coach) Hamish McLean is Every time he swims he's for your average He's kicking twice as hard to kick cycle that an average He has got to have great to hold his technique Hamish is really unique perhaps as good he's just a lot smaller (Georgia) I was born in Uni student That's definitely what I would like to continue I have always done sports and But in terms of being a work harder on actually my mind and my body So I'm not naturally but hopefully hard work can Nothing has taught me the and my own psychology like anything can teach you through that pain barrier where you honestly is completely countering is telling you to this is wrong and the But that's quite an amazing keep learning and I think that's quite unique. (Coach) Georgia Grey is She's been swimming for at the level and capacity of Para athlete. She's improving everyday improving as an athlete approach. Her mental starting to come into place. a bright future. This hopefully see her progress ladder and hopefully world. And who knows, at she could do very well. (Coach) It's always tough getting first thing on a Monday usually an aerobic base to trials now that these stage of the session. Jesse training sets would be which we'll do in two hours. Georgia being an upper obviously far more morning we start off the her. It's kind of a steady opinion anyway. (Georgia) My personal best is to get a 30.89, so that's is like a good dive or a bad (Jesse) I haven't actually done so for me to qualify have to swim a personal best. I'm pretty nervous about same time I'm really have done the preparation (Coach) This morning after going down into the tough session with Marissa (Marissa) Morning kiddies, today, you guys have (Coach) By 11.30 in the morning hours in the pool and an a pretty tough start to back in the afternoon sessions tend to be the really hard work. (Marissa) Jesse and Georgia because they know exactly know how to work hard that will push and push and her back a little bit, which have than someone that (Marissa) And Jesse is very They need to push the performance gains to be also has to be very managed to make sure that requires some sort (Coach) Anybody who wants Paralympian or a top great sacrifices, but these My background originally average football player, I've really worked hard to this and thought that I think back on it swimmers do and they to their sport from such it's night and day, these amount of work that they focus that they put in from 11/12 onwards, they do so much The NZ Open Swimming nationals decide the place Glasgow in three months. Today as a coach there is You have done everything done all their work, they fitter, this is it, this is what (Sophie) On NZ Opens it is a qualify there are no out. It all comes down focus switches off that's a bad race, so always 21. I can do that. Have you got that time? I do a 1.20. (Cameron) For the younger experience events like around, there's a decent music and that whole So when it comes to race get freaked out by it. starting out, we didn't around us, so it was experience until I got to (Nikita) It's almost racing time kick in and you have to put your race because if you already lost the race, if you don't perform well. But I have noticed that they seem to be really thing and it does help But being less nervous (Announcer) Now we've got the Jesse Reynolds and Hamish swimmers in this particular race. (Presenter) Both these boys are class so they swim classification so that at they race against swimmers (Announcer) So Jesse Reynolds and Hamish McLean So just imagine how difficult rhythm of your body, the and the hips, and you create that body rhythm and (Georgia) Go Jesse! (Coach) He made the qualifying I will probably rank him (Announcer) Now we've got to swim. He needs to go (Presenter) Hamish has to shave (Announcer) Hamish McLean the young man from (Presenter) A massive challenging in hundredths of a second. (Announcer) The crowd is urging McLean giving it absolutely What a swim from the 15 year And he swam a personal best so 21 seconds in (Mother) How do you feel? Good. I can't believe you did it! That Yeah it felt good. You have made us all proud mate. Yeah it feels good. Throughout sick and tired, but brought felt sick getting out of recovered from it and I feel good. Way beyond my expectations was amazing. So as a Wanakarians we Awesome that's all I can say. (Coach) Hamish tonight has absolutely extraordinary an outside chance. But he and proved to everyone (Reporter) I've got to tell you too, and the guys are actually hear that out because that last 25 Yeah I heard the crowd and and go hard.' Jesse, I know it's your but boy you went for it? Yeah thanks it was a always focusing on the 400m that was really good. I'm really happy we are always in the back of my that there's another trip be great just to go Scotland before so it I don't think I will be qualified because it's go but it's whether John (Mother) This has been a huge We're in shellshock of what we are but we would like he really wants to go. doesn't it? We've got to go Yep. (Announcer) This is the 200m back of shoot there Pascoe. And Nikita (Presenter) Nikita is racing multiple Nikita is a gutsy athlete challenge. In her victory champion in (Announcer) Womens Para 200m 2015 NZ National Sophie Pascoe powering Great swim here by Sophie by all three of them. All classifications are (Nikita's Mother) I try time it My mother used to do a swimming. Even though she's doing it well, it just gives is cool I'm helping even hear you it's not a problem, (Announcer) 2.26.93 what a swim between Fisher and second? Fisher has come leg, Howarth 302.66, fine swim. (Reporter) Three Para World fantastic to see. Nikita we'll these girls at the World Games? Yeah I'm pretty excited second World Champs and shot at going for Gold. It's pretty cool to have these Yeah I guess they are like real cool to have them have fun times with Sophie all the tricks. (Georgia's Boyfriend) I'm here to watch my It's a big deal coming out here and hopefully a I'm going to support (Coach) Georgia can't really her racing. 50m Freestyle have to nail your start, everything right in mistakes are measured do qualifying times Yes it's come down to the got every confidence she is that she can post a doesn't get another chance all or nothing. (Announcer) Lane 5 it's Georgia (Jesse) She looked nervous at come through. All we need will be us and she'll (Announcer) Georgia Grey Womens 50m Freestyle. Sophie Pascoe she second place, Grey, 31, time for Georgia Grey. (Jesse) She was literally like .06 I'm absolutely gutted for her. Good swim, just not quite enough. You can't be unhappy I'm sure that she's going bit extra. I better go and see her. (Georgia) It was a personal best, anything. Everyone else the team made the team. so happy for them, but you just Well-done guys, high five. thank you, and thank made the team. We start to we come together at a raising the bar. But look forward to watching forward and really having a Womens Medley Relay Georgia's time of 109, when you put that in as a ranking in the top four had already decided that we would probably Coach: And so Georgia's time team, but she will go It wasn't the easiest way yeah I'm so glad I'm there. (Announcer) The eight strong for the World Championships. (Coach) It's been a great Open our biggest World Championships a great launching pad for (Mother) Hamish gets up at He's at that pool by about and then swimming at 6am-8am. This is my least favorite thing It's going to be hard today. (Coach) Since Opens, Hamish has didn't do too much for we're back into it pretty we did for Opens on our worked for Opens, so we'll little bit faster and (Nikita's Mother) 5.10am every morning never been a problem getting morning. Time for toast to swimming, she likes her drink it quickly. At the age of 15 she's crazy. At the moment in two of the races. would be where she's wanted to Gold at Rio. having more than one Gold is pretty Now she's a world champion pressure. I don't think that But the older she gets the build, you just don't know. how she's going mentally and I'm just tired, I don't of a week with training, so into it now. It's seeming moment, so hopefully I just want a break but break, so yeah. I'm the only and if I do this I will get the others, so that Gold medal is Hey guys come on in this area, laundry there, garage I will show you the upstairs. Georgia's parents In here we have the doing her Uni work. And we here with the nice view. everyone's asleep by 9pm, that's how it's got to be. Living in a flat with other thing for me. I set myself high goals achieve them. I'm driven, NZ is such an honor and and that's also something so few people have I'm pretty hard on myself and in certain aspects successful. But if you're too you probably don't learn. from your failures than each failure although another experience to ever want to feel My boyfriend, mainly England, so I will show We've been together agreed that we would stay not really see much of to move out but that's difficult. And I had a place at Uni to do a Masters at up. So yeah I gave up over there. I didn't want and say I should have education, the boy and and still be around, but I won't ever be in the shape swim like this. Careful, racing car driver. I am, I want to be. No you don't. You are a swimmer. Swimmers are allowed to You've got to be safe though. I am safe I'm only going 90kms. Nikita works really hard, but I like gym better because like getting wet, but it's just gym sessions out of It doesn't normally sessions to keep myself sane. Today has been lots more and they're being nicer recognized more for my So how do you think It was alright. We're in PE and we're with my class at Level One. I'm not very good on the anything really, but I try my (Teacher) He just gives His biggest strength He lets nothing hold him back. I've been swimming since my parents wanted me to said when I could beat but when I started to bigger competitions Paralympic people. I really liked I think it's just proving being that guy who can't do it. (Georgia) You can give everything enough you are not good don't qualify and that you think what more do I have anything left. It's so difficult to deal around that, but if you tick do it correctly then medalist at the end of the get out of the pool and And if it's not meant to (Coach) So when the swimmers focusing on now is the either pick a spot that when they dive in and straight out there on that black line and almost they're the only people in on either side of them. A lot of swimmers will square at the far end of their target they'll be it doesn't matter whether race, they should go At the end of the day we want would rather be safe and It's the first competitive be exciting to be a part of. of the bargain and finish it off. (Coach) We've got five world in our squad, so if you are And we needed to stress have only made the relay you a good swimmer. (Georgia) The other three girls game and I'm just swimmer, so it's really (Coach) Sophie doesn't train here here regularly, so this is We'll get this practice another one until Georgia is swimming the the medley relay, which is day. We need to make up we're going to win a medal, we want to try and get our This is Recs...that's tight alright, no problem, and Jody the prefect changeover." Oh Georgia! We're still in the race fairness to Georgia, she's been Sophie's coming in, so you've again. It's only a little bit away okay; it's not that far off. It's really difficult because it's all white water with a And the difference getting it wrong is tenth you're in the water you right, so it's a real test. (Coach) In the women's relay bronze and 4th place have Three good changeovers three bad changeovers tight as that. (Sophie) This is the School of course and this is my first passion for it but I haven't I'm lucky that Vicky supports and that has got to come balance the other side of life. But it is hard to balance it dedication within swimming of the pool as well so I'm Staying at the top it's a at the pool ten sessions sessions. And I have an world champion and staying harder to be the hunted nowhere and doing it I'm lucky enough to have with me and we both have the I don't know how many how many years I've been week's work is close to physical training. (Rolly) Right straight (Sophie) There are plenty of days train, but you always have opposition is doing around always going to be new people It's a love/hate relationship felt why am I doing this? I doing this will be the many people can class (Coach) Okay we're (Nikita) Today is a really hard because it's Saturday us to our hardest on a hope I will get to exhaustion knackered and have (Coach) It's hard today, it's a hard We've had a hard week of buggered, but it will (Georgia) Half way through you yourself because you've 15 15. It's a mental game where you can't swim knuckle down and do it, so You might see tears. (Coach) Water is not going to get Ready, two, one. They are probably feeling themselves right now, so they're holding their Keep going Nikita, it's great come on. (Nikita) I've just got to keep going at the end of the day I know in then I'm going to get training. So I have to push (Coach) Come on keep working, got to really force your just sheer effort won't work. I'm shattered at the moment, you want to spend I felt knackered towards for a hard morning swim, (Coach) Really pleased with baseline now to build campaigning for the I won't tell them that I'm Okay good afternoon everybody... start. A little bit of starting tomorrow, morning 10am, afternoon finals are approved by IPC Swimming worn. Body advertising symbols is not allowed. They've all done really where I thought they were, big unknown factor Once that self-belief starts conquer anything and I in that situation now. I do team is going to have great my mission since day one (Announcer) The Men's This one is going to be very tight. (Coach) Hamish has never before and how will he But he'll be better (Hamish) I've never been to that I've made it this far in (Coach) Hamish swam a personal actually achieved his goal the finals is a bonus. He's plan and has been up till having nerves affect (Hamish) That's my biggest goal but personal bests and I've It's unreal that I made it this feel very proud. (Announcer) Here are the finalists, good qualification. NZ Team (Jesse) Surprisingly I wasn't not entirely sure why. I had (Announcer) Jesse not that In lane 5 right next to the world all know he's got Take your marks. (Coach) I wanted Jesse to carry morning, try to get another was good enough (Announcer) Brendon Hall will take (Jesse) I'm not to fazed about six which is better than what I'm 5th in the world which is with funding. It's awesome. think it will be bringing that will definitely drop some come back in Rio and hopefully (Announcer) The bronze goes to Pascoe. She's going to be she's leaving with the bronze (Sophie) I gave it my best and so you can't complain. (Announcer) If you had of looked have been much more single swimmer. And now so many gold medals, she is she turns in an (Sophie) It's challenging out there. (Announcer) Superb, Sophie swimmer. Another gold superb performance from Sophie Pascoe, 226.251. Championship record swim can see that one really hurt (Sophie) It was the hardest race and came out (Announcer) The Team from NZ, Women's Team in an they are looking Take your marks. It's a good start. It is Great Britain (Coach) It's a good team they they haven't swum together any real expectation on concerned we (Georgia) We don't train together, out how to make it a lot definitely do. I'm so glad to been happy siting at home. off the relay maybe not as we could do was really (Nikita) I am ranked first but every race is tough so I (Coach) Nikita is a real is the arena that she thrives in. (Announcer) The Kiwi has a nice and feet full in the power Not bad around the wall and underwater section. backstroke in a nice (Nikita's parents) Go Nikita! (Announcer) Look at this! They say the breaststroke and look NZ is making the rest of through the nose. It's her against 2.48.43 Nikita Howarth has just breaststroke leg. Here comes 15 meters to go! They breaststroke leg has done Zealander and Nikita Howarth her own World title. Wow a devastating breaststroke she will be ecstatic to (Nikita) I did want it really badly. believe in yourself when from the heart and went for it. (Nikita's Mother) She did swim her personal best, but status is cool. (Nikita's Dad) Fantastic, awesome. (Nikita) I knew that she She is such a proud Mum eh? It's great to have (Announcer) Representing NZ, 14-year-old two yeas Championships she (Nikita) It's great to be out experience hearing the yourself, it's pretty cool. (Coach) It's been very closing of the gaps. From things, really good. From and coming swimmers it's think everybody is absolutely looking forward to Rio next year.