From Giant Goldfish to cute chameleons, here the wild... 10. Green Iguanas Iguanas are a popular pet for collectors of and supposedly they are easy to take care Unfortunately the idea that they are simple sell them, because they actually need a strict They can also be difficult to tame and handle, this has led to a large number being released They are naturally from central and south This has meant that those released in similar California, Florida and Hawaii, have thrived This has been detrimental to the local ecosystems food, and will prey on species that haven't As a result, Iguanas are illegal to own in and havoc they can cause on the islands. In Florida, the populations of feral iguanas and local wildlife, so if you do decide to don't release them into the wild!. 9. Cuban Tree Frog These cute frogs are a favorite of exotic is causing serious issues across Florida. They are quite difficult to identify among even more difficult by the way that they can They are originally native to Cuba, the Bahamas, have been first introduced to Florida in the It's the recent popularity of keeping them in their numbers in the wild as a result of Cuban Tree Frogs are an aggressive species of native Floridian frogs, as well lizards, They are also able to survive in urban areas, where they lay their eggs. They have been responsible for massive changes to affect humans by causing power outages?? They are a danger to environments where they under any circumstances. 8. Rabbits Rabbits are another incredibly popular pet are released into non-native environments The best example of this is in Australia where Only 24 were set free, but by 1920 there were There have been numerous attempts to curb of breeding, ability to feed on most vegetation, Australia in huge numbers and pose a threat and burrowing bettong by taking over their 7. Goldfish/Carp They may seem harmless enough, and are a popular world, but releasing your pet fish into the your local environment. Nowhere has this effect been seen more clearly out of hand. Notorious for their strict rules on bio-containment, in trouble for allegedly sneaking in their The Australians have good reason for being In 2016 researchers from the Murdoch University 2kg and were up to 30 centimeters long. These large animals are thought to have descended as pets and released into the wild a few years By feeding on more food and disrupting the significant damage by killing off all the Goldfish the size of dinner plates have also to fines of $100,000 dollars to those that Angler Raphael Biagini captured a legendary south of France. Fellow fishermen had spent 6 years trying The only way this fish ended up in the lake, of it. 6. Red Eared Slider Turtle The red eared slider turtle is the most common It's native to the southern US and Northern areas it has caused havoc in waterways across them into the wild. The International Union for Conservation of of the world's 100 most invasive species. There are two reasons for this, first because of their temperament. The turtles can carry salmonella bacteria, other species in the wild, and their aggressive off other turtles from the environment so This has been happening in the state of Washington, pond turtles have been significantly declining. As the most popular turtle to be kept as a quantities every year by owners who aren't or just get bored. This is the species that provided the basis all red eared sliders that had been set free 5. Chameleons Chameleons are beautiful and unusual, cute they are a popular choice for a pet. What's not to love? They aren't suitable for beginner owners, getting them. They have very specific living and dietary petted or handled really. A lot of people don't know what they are doesn't love them back, so a lot of people Depending on where they live, like other animals, the local wildlife. Veiled Chameleons have proved to be a particular again!). They originally come from Saudi Arabia and the humidity doesn't seem to bother them They easily blend in with the background so They are also able to adapt their diet and and lay up to 270 eggs per year so rapidly The Floridian veiled chameleons that have across the state into the everglades and causing This has led to the introduction of amnesty pets, but in Hawaii it is totally illegal of up to $200,000. 4. Hermit Crabs Hermit Crabs are often seen for sale on beach customers, but keeping them as pets is extremely In the wild they can live for up to 30 years, than a year because of the chemicals they food being fed to them. They struggle to breathe in a tank and, being kept alone makes their existence pretty miserable. With this said, you shouldn't release your They would be very unlikely to survive because and would have very little chance of meeting There's also the chance that the crab you the tank or area that they were captured; not be able to deal with. There's a strong possibility that releasing illness to the entire ecosystem. The best solution, avoid getting a hermit 3. Giant African Land Snails Giant African Land Snails are a delicacy in in the United States because of how destructive They are first thought to have been brought boy brought three to Miami. His grandmother released them into their garden and within seven years the population had It took the state of Florida over 10 years dollars. Even so, they are still around are every now They are already a prevalent pest across Hawaii are called in to deal with outbreaks. 67 live snails were confiscated by customs The reason they are so terrible is because They breed fast and have a huge appetite. Each one weighs more than a pound and can They happily eat over 500 different types parasite called rat lungworm that has been pets. They can lay up to 1,200 eggs per year, and their numbers. Besides the stucco homes, especially in Florida, their shells and be even tougher! While it is possible to eradicate the snails Preventing their release is a far better option, this pest from taking over the world! 2. Red Lionfish They are truly unique fish, and were even Star Trek, but the Fish and Wildlife service fish around Florida since the 1980's. They originate from the Indo-Pacific region, eastern coast of the United States. It's thought this spread first began because and subsequently numerous aquarium enthusiasts to let them go in the ocean. These fish are carnivores, so happily feed environment. They have large appetites, and will consume reducing numbers of other species. Part of their resilience is due to the fact makes them dangerous to humans and mean they Every new Lionfish that is released into a it's vital that if you have a Lionfish you to adopt it. Setting it free just unleashes a whole chain 1. Snakes The release of pet snakes into the wild has With people's increasing interest in keeping irresponsible owners releasing them in the Florida everglades. When you first get a snake it can be pretty larger and can prove to be very difficult Quite often they'll feel like they are doing of keeping it cooped up in a bathtub or something. But they are actually putting their pet in already live there. Scientists are concerned about the prevalence put over 150 other species at risk. Southern Florida, for example, is being overrun eat virtually all birds and mammals in the They are even able to attack humans, but luckily The warm climate of Florida means that the breeding populations in the wild, and so have Once they have taken hold, there's very it's vital that people stop releasing them to have a chance at survival. Have any crazy stories of finding former pets Let us know in the comments below! Remember to subscribe and see you next time!