Today I propose that we realize together a great classic of the le croissant. In this video I show you how to make a successful I show you the consequences of each of I teach you to rectify the defects of a dough piece of and as usual, I try to give you as much as possible because I want to be 110% sure that you're going to pass the recipe at home. Three Paris Brest in half an hour, that doesn't scare me, I am the marathon runner, of the tropezians, and the diva of the operas. I am the gourmet of service, and food is my vice. Hello You-patissiers, it's Aida, I hope you all have a very good holiday. In any case, I wish you an excellent year. If you're new, welcome to my channel the best to learn how to make French pastry. You will find advice, tips and recipes from professionals, to learn the right basics, progress, while having fun and for free, so if you're interested, just click right away and it's done. See you soon. Before you start, I advise you to prepare all the ingredients and the material without forgetting two plastic bags, of 6 litres. If you don't have a robot I invite you to see the recipe for the brioche without robot. Even if the ingredients change, the work of the dough remains the same. Prepare a portfolio of 7,87 inch x 7,87 inch with and if you can a scale and a dough cutter. Mix the two flours and if not possible use only T 55. Incorporates milk powder, yeast and milk fat. Caution: salt and sugar must not be in contact with the yeast. Mix for four minutes in first speed and add water. and the cold melted butter. After four minutes, switch to medium-high speed for 6 minutes. After 10 minutes switch to higher speed until the dough comes off the walls. Notes that the dough is elastic. Pull gently on it and it does not break. This is the gluten network of your dough, which you need to make beautiful croissants. Remove the dough on a floured worktop. Film your dough and let it rest. After 30 minutes, the dough has doubled in volume. You have to degas it. Place the dough on your plastic bag and start to form a 23 cm X 15 cm (9.05 inch X 5.90 inch) rectangle. Take care to film the dough with the two pockets. because if the dough crumbles, it may compromise your croissant, and takes advantage of it to form right angles. Leave on for at least one night or six hours. Place it directly on the shelf of your fridge. The next day, take out the butter 5 minutes before starting to stir. Choose a butter with 82 GR of fat and 57 GR Put flour underneath and on top. And loosen the butter with your rolling pin. Roll out butter into a 20 cm x 20 cm square,(7.87 inch x 7.87 inch) and put it in the fridge for 5 minutes. In the meantime, take the dough out of the cold and flour underneath and in the Rectangular, 7.87&quot; x 15.74&quot; (20 cm x 40 cm) If your dough is hollowed out in the centre, it will be in relation to the thickness of the centre are by bringing the layers towards the centre. Then, thin out the centre. That's how your dough becomes straight again. It is important to balance the thicknesses right from the start. Take the butter out of the cold, if your butter is on the is that it is too cold. Your butter and your dough must have the same consistency and the same temperature. This is a butter of ideal consistency. It is soft and supple and twists without breaking. That's why as soon as you take out the the butter 15 to 20 minutes on the plan good temperature, before you start Otherwise, marble butter and the consequence will be immediate Place the butter on the dough at the edge of the dough. Removes flour and eliminates air bubbles. It is normal to have this space, Stretch to bring the dough edge to edge. Put the two openings facing you, but in small quantities and peels off the Begin gently by spreading the dough without forcing. Weld the ends together, make small bumps Gives the dough a straight direction from the start, sometimes to the left. Like this. Weld the ends to avoid layer mismatch, You don't want your dough to get stuck on the under the pressure of your rolling pin. Insists on greater thicknesses. Get your bearings with your scroll. For To be precise, always take off measure with your tape measure. Because the dough is of a centimetre after peeling. Your dough must be 70 cm x 25 cm (27.55 inches long x 9.84 inches wide) before folding. Get rid of the flour and fold the dough in two thirds and one third. To have even layers of dough, the ends should be edge to edge and at right angles. Bring both ends edge to edge and do not overthicken. Chases away air bubbles. 9,05 inch 3,937 inch In order to avoid deformation of the the ridge must be in the middle of the dough. You have just finished your first wallet round, film your dough 2 times with your two plastic bags, to prevent it from scabbing, because if you do, you risk puncturing your laminate. and in this case it will be impossible or even very difficult for you to continue with the turning. Reserve the dough in the cold for 15 minutes before making the second single round. After 15 minutes take the dough out of the cold and place the opening called the key, on your right or left but always keep the same direction. If your dough is hollow in the centre, thin out. then, in the centre. Then lower at an angle to rectify the fault, and that's how your dough gets straight again, and in this case, it is you who manages the direction of the dough and not the other way around. Spreads the drop into a rectangle measuring 65 cm x 25 cm (25.59 inches long x 9.84 inches wide). Check that you are edge-to-edge, if not, adjust. You have just finished your second round, the round Keep the key on your right. Now spread the dough into a rectangle about 23 cm x 26 cm (9.05 inch x 10.23 inch) to move forward, because you will have to spread the dough later on to 30 CM X 40 CM (11.81 inch X 15.74 inch) This is the size of your baking tray. Shoot twice and reserve in the cold for 1h . Take the dough out of the cold and, as before, wait 20 minutes before turning. Now spread the dough roll to the size of your baking tray, i.e. 30 cm x 40 cm (11.81 inch x 15.74 inch). You always start with the width. Turn the key Then return the key to its original position, to spread over a length of 40 cm. (15,748 inch) It is the key that must be 40 cm long. (15,748 inches) I'll explain why later. Rework the width if necessary. But always put the key back to your right. Now that your dough is 30 cm X 40 cm, (11.81 inch X 15.74 inch). cut in half across the width. So as not to crush the sheets of your cut-out laminate so you have two sticks of 20 cm X 30 cm. (7.87 inch x 11.81 inch) You can make 8 chocolate rolls or 8 croissants with each dough piece. But today concentrate on making 16 I will show you in another video how to make pain au chocolat. Film the two dough pieces and keep them in the cold for 30 minutes. Remember to keep the key on the same side. After 30 minutes spread the dough, keeping the key on the right, spread into a dough piece of 10.62 inch x 16.14 inch (27 cm x 41 cm) The 20 cm (7.87 inch) becomes 27 cm (10.62 inch) and the 30 cm (11.811 inch) becomes 41 cm (16.14 inch). The final thickness of the dough should be 4 millimetres. (0.15748 inches). 10,6299 inch x 16,1417 inch Now get rid of the key, so Keep the scraps, cut the dough in half, then cut it into four. Each rectangle measures 8/9 Using your ruler, make markings of an Place the triangles on top of each other. Keeps the falls from earlier next door If you can put the scale next to it must have a total weight between 65 gr and 70 gr. Cut out the base of the triangle and tighten at the start, to prevent the croissants from flattening during baking. Roll without crushing with your hand. You must have four floors of each force it or you risk breaking it. thickness 0,157 inch Stretches to about 35 cm in length ( 13.78 inches in length ) triangle size (3,15/3.54 inches wide) and(10.24/ 10.63 inches long) It is important to cut the base. Here are 3 triangles of identical weight and size. The first one is without cut-out, the second one is 3 cm, ( 1.18 inch) and the third one is 5 cm, ( 1.96 inch). The height and length of each crescent is different. The first one is too high and the third one is too flat because it is too elongated. And now would you know Bravo! I can see that you are following. Put the scraps inside the crescent, if you have to adjust its weight. Attention the end of the triangle must be in under and in the middle of the croissant, when you place it on your baking tray. Place the croissants in staggered groups of six. Reserve the rest of the croissants in the freezer, and once frozen, put them in a bag. All you have to do is place the frozen croissants on your baking tray. Wait fifteen minutes, brown them and leave them to grow overnight at room temperature, then cook them the next morning. To make the croissants grow, put very hot water in your oven, set the oven temperature to 60 Cdeg ( 140degF) and if you cannot, do not turn on the oven. You will just have to let the croissant grow longer. Count 10 seconds. Turn off the oven. Be careful to respect the timing or your oven will be too hot. After ten minutes, check with your hand, you must If the oven is too hot, the butter will melt and the and your croissant will not develop properly. After an hour and a half of growth, you should still be able to detach the crescent. of the baking sheet, without dirtying it. If the crescent sticks and this operation is impossible, the crescent is too much. In this case, the croissant will be flat when it comes out of the oven. Sleep the croissants a second time and bake them for 6 minutes at 200 Cdeg(392degF) and 12 minutes at 175 Cdeg(347degF). Here are the croissants have finished baking, they are hot and ready to be eaten. What happiness! Here you have noticed that in this recipe he has the little details that make up all the croissant, at home. So if you liked the video I count on you to enjoy and share as much as possible and don't forget to click on the little bell to continue receiving the videos. So I'll see you soon for the next recipe.