In this video, I'm gonna how to motivate lazy teenagers. I'll show you how to get them to fulfill their responsibilities. And you won't even need Over the past 10 years, I've helped over 20,000 to become motivated and responsible. I've done this through 1-to-1 coaching and more. I'm Daniel Wong, and I to become successful and happy. Today, you're gonna learn 6 proven tips that have worked wonders coaching clients. So keep watching, and stay until the end, because at the end of the video I'm gonna share with you This resource will explain to motivating teens. Let me ask you a question, have you ever tried and punishments with your teens? If you have, you've probably might work in the short term, but it won't work in the long term. I'm sure you want your teens for the long term, so this leads me to Tip Number 1. Focus less on your teens' and more on their underlying emotions. Let me start with an analogy, imagine that you have a It keeps overheating, So every time your phone gets hot, you put it in the fridge for Is this a good way to solve Of course not. You need to figure out why in the first place. Is there something wrong with the battery? Or maybe there's something Or maybe, there's a buggy app that's causing the phone to overheat? It's only when you get to the root issue that your phone will stop overheating. Here's how this relates your teens' problematic behavior is like the phone overheating. You can use incentives, rewards, threats, punishments to make the at least for a while. But this would be like putting it's just a temporary fix. If you wanna help your lazy and intrinsically motivated, You need to focus less on and more on their underlying emotions. What challenges are they facing that are causing them to be lazy? Maybe they're feeling or maybe there's an ongoing power struggle between you and them, and Or maybe they feel like and that frustrates them. To get your teens to open up, Don't lecture them. Instead, really try to Encourage them to keep talking. Say things like, go on or tell me more. Once in a while, summarize has been saying. Reflect it back to him or her. For example, you might say to your teen, it sounds like you feel that And you feel that I only you're getting in school. Remember, the approach that works best is when you do more connecting When you take this approach, you'll understand your Then you can help them and behavior. If you feel like you just the next tip, Tip Number 2 is for you. Share your feelings with your teens instead of criticizing them. I know, it's so frustrating when you see your teens playing video games, when So it's natural for you why are you always watching TV Or you might say, you're But if you say things like that, your teens will feel like and they'll become defensive. So what should you do instead? Share your feelings with your teens. For example, in the same situation, you could say something like, you know, I feel worried. I know you have a Physics exam this week, but you've been watching I'm worried that you won't be Or maybe, you could say something like, I feel concerned when I for several hours every day. When I was younger, I used to That really affected my life. I don't want the same If you share your they'll understand your So remember, focus more on your feelings and less on their flaws. Let's move on to Tip Number 3, show your teens that hard work is fun. My teenage coaching they don't see a single who seems to enjoy hard work. To them, adults always seem to be complaining about their boss, or about how annoyed they So most teens get the idea that They think of hard work as something to be avoided whenever possible. Of course, you don't want your teens to have this kind of attitude. You can be that adult that adult who shows that rewarding, and even fun. So, once in a while, tell your teens about the Tell them about the problems you're facing in other areas of your life. Tell them about the joy of Explain to them how you're Over time, your teens will isn't something bad. Most of the time, hard work If you're finding the tips useful so far, please like this video. And please leave a quick comment below to answer this question, what's the biggest problem with your teen? As I read your comments, I'll for future videos. So leave a comment right away. Now let's move on to Tip Number 4, acknowledge your teens' I have many teenage coaching clients who seem lazy and unmotivated. But they tell me that they're They feel like they'll to their parents' expectations. So they don't even feel like trying. Since you're watching this video, you probably think your So it's natural that you about your teens. But if you're always about your teens, and what they're doing wrong, they'll start to internalize They might start thinking to themselves, I'm just lazy and unmotivated. Or maybe they might think to themselves, I'm a big procrastinator. In fact, a 15-year-old coaching Daniel, my parents are right. I'm just lazy. I'll So don't give your teens If these negative labels it will be even harder to So what should you do instead? Intentionally observe and and positive behavior. Focus on progress, not perfection. When it comes to your teens' development, remember that direction So if your son takes out the trash, which he's supposed to do anyway, you could say something like, thank you for taking out the trash. Or if you see your daughter for an hour, you could say something like, I saw you doing your work for an hour. It seems like your focus is improving. These kinds of comments If you make these kinds of comments, your teens will be more likely to develop intrinsic motivation. Researchers like John a magic ratio of 5 to 1. This is the ratio that he has observed in thriving family relationships. This ratio means that when communicating with family members, you for every 1 negative comment. This is if you want it to John Gottman's research but my experience working with teens tells me that the 5 to 1 ratio also applies in the I've had parents tell me that the ratio in their parent-teen relationship one positive comment for every one hundred So acknowledge your teens' and do your best to achieve Let's move on to Tip Number 5, show an interest in all Many parents focus on only a few areas of their teens' lives. They might focus on areas and household responsibilities. If this happens in your family, your teens will start to feel like these are the only areas you care about. Your teens will start to feel as a project instead of as a person. This is how many of my Over time, your teens may This will be a huge obstacle to them finding long-term motivation. They may even start to So it's really important as a whole person, not as a project to be worked on or a problem to be solved. Listen to your teens when they Try out the video games they play. Listen to the music they like. Check out the videos they enjoy watching. Make an effort to understand why they find some activities so fun. If you do these things, your It won't seem as if of their interests and hobbies. They'll be reminded that you This will make them more likely Many of my teenage coaching they feel like their when they're doing well in school, or doing well in life in general. I'm sure this isn't the case, parents love their But teens don't always see it this way. So it doesn't hurt to remind that you do love them unconditionally. This brings us to Tip Number 6, turn the conflict with your What does this mean? It means that when you talk to your teen about his or her lack of you don't want the conversation to become a face-to-face conflict. Instead, you want the conversation to be a side-by-side collaborative When you talk to your teen, make it clear that your teen is not the problem. The situation is the problem. You're gonna work together with your teen to find a solution. And you're gonna make sure that both of you are happy with. During this problem-solving session, try to understand how your teen feels. What are his frustrations? What's been bothering him? How would he like you to support him? Share your own point of view get the better of you. If you start to get angry, take a break. Restart the conversation later. When you understand and your teen understands then you can start brainstorming Make sure that no one walks The goal is to arrive or at least, a no-lose solution. There you have it, those are my 6 proven tips for If you like this video, make sure to subscribe Just click the subscribe And if you want even more I've written a free e-book. It's entitled, 16 Keys to Visit daniel-wong.com/ebook Make sure to put all the I've also included the ebook download link in the description below. Once again, the ebook is completely free, so get your copy right away. Thanks for watching, and I'll