- [Jared] The Sphere is in downtown Las Vegas, Nevada. In this video we'll go on the inside, see the different levels, and the incredible This building is redefining (smooth ambient music) The Sphere is an entertainment venue that was completed in September of 2023. It has an incredible (ambient music) There's no limit to what The inside contains seats and it has the biggest wraparound LED screen in the entire world. For comparison, here's the size of the It's about 18 times smaller. The official name of the but it's also referred to or the MSG Sphere. But if you just say Sphere, most people will know It's almost like they've redefined (ambient music) It took five years to build and it cost 2.3 billion US dollars. It's now owned by Sphere The building stands 112 meters high. For comparison, here's the Statue of Liberty (ambient music) Alright, geography time. This is the United States. The state of Nevada is here, and this is the city of Las Vegas. The popular place to be as the Las Vegas Strip or just the Strip. It's a place known for as entertainment, and nightlife. It's always been known but just recently it got (ambient music) The outside of the Sphere This is the part that has the giant screen that wraps around the entire building. From far away, it looks like but it's actually made As you get closer, you start Each of these lights but they're nicknamed Hockey Pucks because of their size and shape. They're about as big as Each module has 48 light emitting diodes or LEDs capable of showing any color. (ambient music) If you're walking by the Sphere, you can actually see There's no fence and they (ambient music) For some people, seeing on the Las Vegas skyline there's always surprises If you want to visit the Sphere, you've got a few different options. You can go see a concert. As of early 2024, these are the bands currently Or you could go see &quot;Postcard From Earth.&quot; This is an hour long to show inside the Sphere. You want to get to your show early because there's a lot to There is some parking but you can also use some of the parking garages You can also take the monorail, which can help you get If you're coming from the Venetian, that's this hotel right here, you'll have direct access into the Sphere. The pedestrian bridge will without needing to go outside. Right up next to the Sphere, the west entry, east Most people will use the They'll confirm your and you'll be on your way. There are nine floors but most visitors will only The other two floors are likely a basement and a sky deck lounge, but there's not much public We came in through the event level and next we'll explore the main level. (ambient music) There's actually a lot to see here. This area in the middle When you're walking through it, it may feel a little bit (ambient music) One of the highlights of your visit will be saying hello to Aura the Robot, considered to be the world's She uses AI to interact and have real time conversations. There are five of these robots You'll notice there are four rings in the middle of the floor. This is to demonstrate the speakers which are behind Aura the Robot. Inside each one of these circles, you'll hear different sounds. (upbeat music) As soon as you step outside of the circle, you can no longer hear it. (jazz music) (gentle ambient music) (dramatic music) Later in the video, we'll Up above is a large holographic display. It's made of 420 individual These are kind of like There are four LED strips that spin faster than the eye can see. Then images can be displayed, It's like something This technology isn't just being used in the Las Vegas Sphere. Many other places around the Escalators can take you so you can find your seats. Many of the floors have and there's also plenty There are also elevators and stairways, which To find the way to your show, you'll need to use the (ambient music) Let's look at the seats. There are four sections, (ambient music) The floor area is usually You can get to here For 100 seating, you For the 200 seating you can and then the 300 seating The 400 seating you can enter from both the lower gallery level and Some people have mentioned that the upper level seats If you look closely, you'll that look a little bit different. These are the private suites. There's the lower level suites and the upper level suites It's a way to reserve individual rooms for a bit more of a private experience. The screen wraps around giving each viewer a completely It's the biggest theater The movies must be shot called the Big Sky. This shoots footage at than a regular movie camera. A regular movie camera only sees pretty much what's right in front of it, but the Big Sky camera has to match up to the screen While filming, they have so that the action happens towards the bottom part of the screen. Inside the Sphere, the is most visible to the audience. This is where their focus will be. Right now, there's only one movie that's been made for the The movie we talked about earlier. This is currently showing at the Sphere. (ambient music) There are 160,000 speakers that are directly behind the screen. Here's a closeup look at what They are a lot more advanced These are the same speakers earlier in the video They use something called This can direct sound to With typical speakers, sound so everybody in the room However, with beamforming technology, it's possible to focus these sound waves in a specific direction. This technology is so precise that it can do things like of different parts of the audience. So for example, these seats and these seats might have it in Spanish, these seats in French. It is said that this is headset It's absolutely incredible. Many of the seats have something which means they will vibrate Combine this with other scent, and wind, and this creates a completely immersive experience, making you forget that The Las Vegas Sphere is but it might not be the only one. There are rumors that more but at this point, nothing But is it worth all that effort? Is it really as good as they say? Don't take my word for it. You'll have to go see My name's Jared. Consider supporting these videos on Patreon by clicking here. Thanks for watching, and (chill ambient music)