Far out in the The Faroe Islands. Surprisingly, Filipino minority here -- some 10-thousand -I don't know how they found the Faroe Antonette found different traditions, the her on the Faroes. So she's thrilled to holiday. She's donning the national -I feel so proud to wear it, because wearing it. As a foreigner, wear the national costume Antonette has created a To be with her great love Regin Egholm, behind her. For the last five years, the Coming from the tropics, North Atlantic was a It rains 300 days a year in the Faroes. reaches just 12 degrees Celsius. it's only light for a -I know how it feels to be alone, because Islands I thought there are no Filipinos or just like regretting that I came to the make friends? They don't and I don't understand Antonette and Regin first met on Cyprus. was a guest on holiday. For two years another. Then Antonette plucked up her Faroes. A year after they Antonette's mother has Manila to the Faroes to The whole family is looking forward she'll be wearing the -It fits, right? -Hey, hey. The baptism has proved a bit There's one Faroese custom -Yeah, she already has a name, but to it's a secret. We are not allowed to tell are only allowed to say the church and we are In the Philippines, when you get pregnant I do the same. I was so annoyed, because But Antonette has resigned herself meantime, she makes the most of the Regin is a pharmacist. He spends most house in Torshavn, the capital The first time Regin told her where he what to expect. She'd never even -I thought the Faroe Islands is 'Pharaoh', you're living in Egypt. I'm actually this stuff. But he said: It's part of and looking where is Faroe Islands. I Islands' and 'Denmark' at the end, and Oh, it's very far away And even farther away from The capital of the Philippines Barely 20-thousand live The Faroes comprise 18 islands made of call this European outpost home. But unspoiled nature can get lonely at times. who far outnumber For years, young women have been leaving abroad. The men left behind professions and abide by At the Port of Torshavn Morten His father and grandfather were also But that's not what Faroese women -Times have changed. When I was young women are mainly looking for as much to offer them as Denmark, Morten's son Andreas is also a fisherman. is affected by the shortage of women on of his friends have partners -These days it's easy to find a beautiful computer, click 'Enter' and they're right between them and Faroese women. With a she cooks, cleans and While many Faroese women are leaving the their place. Beng Li Tang is among them. of the first Filipino women -On my first day I was so tired, and it's snowing at that time. I arrive nature. At that time, I didn't plan to But in 2004 I met For twelve years, Beng lived her dream started a family. As the mother of two remote Faroes. But then she discovered Unable to accept this, she worked up Since then, life -The house, there's so much memories I just go for a drive. I like Then I can think about Beng wasn't prepared to give up the life But she refused to stay with her husband she's found work to support -I didn't regret anything. Maybe some there's anything. If I did it, then No, I don't regret anything. Beng has only ever returned to the and Joanna. That's because Beng She supports her parents in the Philippines did she consider returning -I miss my parents, but honestly I don't contented here with my children. By contrast, Ingilin Didriksen Strom Faroes. Like many Faroese headed for Denmark as soon After attending university in Roskilde, It was more exciting That's why many young Faroese women -Life here can be very constraining. different here. I just wanted to get away the main reason why I left back then. time I realized that, no matter where I go, So when she was 24, Ingilin decided to raise a family on the Faroes. Three years moved back. Not long afterwards Ingilin is striving to emancipated woman in this -In the past it was a huge problem that -But I think that things are slowly has returned to the islands in their Now she's on a mission. Ingilin aims generation of self-confident Faroese women. She aims to make the Faroes a place away from. A place with -After being away for so long, it was Faroes. I realized I can make a bigger Copenhagen or elsewhere. I come from here. work. Now I want to use that to Her goal is to become the first woman parliament. She says it's time to do taking to the streets of the capital, Ingilin is the face of a new The remote islands are starting to move parade, held in Torshavn. Not long ago, of here. For Ingilin, the parade is an -It's a fabulous sign that so many people back to the last century. We want the colorful country.' That's a great feeling. Colorful, queer and modern. diverse future aren't shared At Antonette and Regin's house things national holiday, is just around will wear the traditional -It means a lot. She looks absolutely that Faroese women look better than the the foreign women, seeing my I think I fell in love all For Antonette, the national dress -I feel so proud to wear it, because wearing it. As a foreigner, I feel of the Faroe Islands. You feel included -So it's very Feeling you belong and are part of society. first Filipinas who came to the -I think Faroese people, they are used to invisible anymore, Around 200 Filipinas now live on the newcomers. Many have also brought relatives The Filipino community here which are very important -Sometimes it's lonely not to have a in the Faroese society it still feels very hear the language they're talking, you home -- those kind of stuff. So it's All of her girlfriends have they've come to meet -I will love her to grow up here on the Faroe Islands. If she grow up in the to go out in the nighttime and I am not of thinking. Here in the Faroe Islands worried that she's still outside, even in it's very safe here. It's a good [place] Meanwhile, Beng is raising her children man's help. She's found work at a Today she's training a new colleague. is today. She studied to become a social Islands -- and was the only -It's very common for foreigners to work necessary to know the language. That's why I went to After separating from her husband, man doesn't necessarily guarantee a on her own two feet. It helped that she community, but also -You cannot be integrated if you don't a good thing for me. A challenge, language, also in writing. But they So I really -There are setbacks, I fall down, but I'm It's the evening before the Faroese colleagues to dinner. They love -The Filipino food, it tastes so good and I feel like I'm in the Philippines. It's good Before it was so rare to find Asian stores here in the After twelve years of marriage, raising husband, Beng is creating another life Faroes have made her into a woman Beng no longer feels she's 'just' She's become truly -I will live here forever. I will grow Antonette and Regin are also getting ready delicacy is on the And, naturally in the Faroes, Even after spending five years in some of the island's -Try it. -It's a little bit? Antonette still isn't entirely sure what -They're celebrating Saint Olaf, who's -King Olaf. Not a saint. King Olaf of -So you are celebrating -Yes. This is the day when Olavsoka, which means Saint Olaf's year in the Faroes. Everyone comes out been a Faroese tradition Ingilin is here, too. Before But, since her return to the as she sees how the -Being here today is something special national holiday every year, but now different and it feels right. I This is the first time Antonette has worn She's been waiting for -I feel so happy and the so it adds up everything. -Well, it's a beautiful day and we could my wife and daughter with me is just They reach the city center just in time. The highlight of Antonette is Faroese men and women to see and be seen, and Olavsoka used to be THE day when the spouses. These days people flock here opening up. One of Europe's remotest Beng Li Tang has also found her place Olavsoka -- and she plans to take part for -I was planning to get another degree. pay more. It's better for our future. If I have more?How do you say it? What about a -No! I'm not