As fun as worldbuilding can be in the moment, seeing as you actually aren't--unless I'm missing into. And it starts with the mindset a lot of you to pay complete attention and at least try to of my mouth. Every aspect of our reality as you that you created. Sounds obvious right, but it's religion, common sayings, days of the week. We to be a concept in your world. Gender roles dominant species. The world could actually be no standard for fantasy and sci-fi. Not tolkein. picturing in your mind. Allow me to introduce side. And this next side is where you curb what we can literally do anything, but that definitely usually two reactions to the "every aspect of that scene from inside out where all the little everything's on fire. And the other is, "Oh I can single, aspect of your world. The latter is what and it is as common as it is deadly, trust me. struggled with it a bit myself. Where they'll story that works in tandem with their world. the next Star Wars. If you're worldbuilding story is heavy on the political intrigue, then an towards that. Might wanna focus more on magic if Your "Silmarillion" doesn't need to be nearly as Tolkien did. And as is the nature of a problem ugly head. You might have already noticed the this is the world built around it. All this blank And that is simultaneously the best scenario and on things that won't show up but then there is a If the reader stands here and looks at your world it starts to fall apart very quickly. his iceberg theory loosely states--Now listen here THIS. You're gonna get in your silly little writer iceberg. Now your readers are dumb as fiddlesticks their silly little brains can only stay on the not as smooth, YOU know the entire iceberg, and heads think they can see the entire thing. It's man. He's also right by the way. But the thing build every detail in your world. We can't know it. We remove the stark line and get a gradient with the vision of the reader. The mountain gets were they can't even see the mountain anymore, but all there is is blank space. All the work you fantastic, but how do you actually apply this? political intrigue. Or in other words game of need to be clearly defined because those are the understand pretty much everything about them what's the next natural progression. So how history, that's another part of our world we dictate how those political parties interact. Oh well. Ironborn and the people of the north are not list! And the ball keeps rolling, but notice how move away from political intrigue. We never though those elements do come into play they're the lord of light, the drowned god, you and judging from how extensively the rest of as much depth in the religion as well. You see the but Martin doesn't have to build the religions He probably did for fun though, his lore book is of. Also Martin has an incredibly huge world, but something like The Gentlemen Bastards for end of the spectrum. If you're a super thirty something deities, but you don't of thrones. And would you look at that, What? You see this side of the problem cube was aspects of your world are not independent of believable world. It so funny when I see stories magic. If everyone had magic it would not look their every day lives for transport, for work, it would dictate culture. You can't just dump affect anything else. Think about it like orbiting the more gravity it will have on every thing else. another significant aspect of game of thrones' intrigue? Well, dragons are part of the magic, you are all powerful, which is why Targaryens how it also gravitates towards the history? among the commonfolk, thus dictating an aspect next part of the cube once we solve it, which is realism. I imagine most world builders don't one crucial aspect of it. This is a bit similar to more focused on showing you how far you can take probably already have one or two really sick ideas execute your crazy insane ideas, your readers and Here's a secret, that's probably why they like the and give you leeway to do it. Now why I said this the cool thing you want, but don't ignore how it For example in a fantasy world I'm currently coolest, most outlandish creatures that I could concept with a world where the creatures would could create a disconnect in the readers mind. So make natural evolution not a factor? Unnatural and warps the world in whatever way it sees fit. if I give them that as my reason. But now there is Wait that's not a problem, hell yeah, what else What if I'm writing sci-fi I can't just magic crazy virus that only morphs animals, I still get yourself to not just what you want, but how it with really interesting ways for them to interact. you never expected to go and your world is usually noticed that you can't solve just 5 sides of a the other sides and the only pieces that are left, when you fix all these problems. It becomes nearly which is another thing I see in countless worlds. of them were completely removed from the 60s. and that's all within one lifetime, the world is the Targaryens have been in power for centuries, Lannisters. It doesn't always have to be wars and Cultural evolution. The environment. And it's okay happen in the background can make your world feel part of the cube, and that is the cube as a whole. huh? What this is right here, is trust. And I have you don't have it. Sanderson can create a world wall on their finger nails to understand the world also know there's going to be an amazing story on talked about is going to help you create a better ignore things like creating touchstones to our of leeway because of who he is. He can scramble readers as a complete world and story. And they and any other famous author. They have already readers for years and years. So just keep in mind be the best thing for you. That being said, there and you can find that out in this video right you solve a cube, pro cubers do not come at me.