Ryan Ryan son of a gun where are you Ryan damn it Ryan damn it Ryan where are you i see the ring take from her take from her take from her sir we're under attack they're putting in a real effort this time i 'm requesting support yes sir officer get the whole regiment ready now yes sir come Comrades, are your ammunition ready ? Is your determination ready? Is your courage ready ? I hate people who say I am not afraid of death. Please remember that sacrifice makes it easier to complete the task. You can only complete the mission if you are alive. Come back alive. Do you understand? Understand. Don't be afraid of sacrifices to defeat the American emperor. Don't be afraid of sacrifices to defeat the American emperor. Don't be afraid of sacrifices to defeat the American emperor . The American Emperor, please complete the mission and come back alive. Do you understand? Complete the mission and come back alive. Complete the mission and come back alive. Complete the mission. Come back alive. Complete the mission and come back alive. Collection is completed, authorization is completed , artillery is fired, each squad platoon leader checks the equipment and prepares to attack . Charge me . AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAA cover you, kid. I don't care. Fight to the death. Save your life for me. Kill for me ! Inform the Fourth Regiment to go up the side slope to exercise this firepower point . Regiment Commander. This is Xiao Zhengliang, the correspondent of the Fourth Regiment. Four enemies. During the counterattack at position 6, all the troops were sacrificed, and I was the only one left. I immediately reported to the camp and asked for support. I charged everyone with one shot after another . Come with me , I want to fight. Be more aggressive and rush , Liu. Hey, Liu. Are you okay? I'm fine . Why don't you go and see if he's getting better soon. How are things going? Report to the deputy company commander. The enemy has been defeated by us. According to the deployment, we will immediately join up with the 5th company of the 135th regiment to capture No. 9. Wu Bo, the commander of the third platoon of the position , please take a few people with me. Wang Chengdong, the commander of the fourth platoon, is cooperating with the instructor to hold the No. 1 position. He is telling everyone to check the ammunition. He is walking around the artillery barrage of the pba is much more intense than what he had expected they've basically managed to cover the two Hugh tops battle feuds with hellfire according to frontline reports they've added two to three battalions of soviet Mechachutia rocket launches to their Arsenal where are reinforcing two battalions each from the 17th and the 32nd regiment they're rushing to the frontline they're about a dozen miles away from the triangle hill but general if we reinforce the hoot up right now we will be under fire from enemy artillery this will cause heavy casualties to our man how many shells do you think they have left the area in both Triangle hill and sniper ridge is extremely narrow one artillery barrage were absolutely devasted our man of course we're betting they have run of shells no we should attack when we know we have the advantage so immediately order bateon to split into tune and use guaria and stealth tactique to reinforce those hilltops also tell the aircraft or connectivity and arteries squadron to stay on standby we will move at Dome yes general i'll head to the front line immediately no you stand the headquarters i'm going to the front line Gentlemen Commander No. 1 No. 6 Position No. 9 has been taken. Currently No. 0 position has not been taken. 2nd Battalion Zhang Guangsheng just reported to the 45th Division Wan Fulai. They have restored No. 4 No. 5 No. 6 position. Commander No. 135 Regiment 6 Company is the only one left. There are 16 people. No matter how many people are left, you must give me Lin Hao's position. Take it down. If position 0 is not restored before dawn, the other positions and offensives cannot be defended. Call Zhang Guocheng of the 45th Division and ask him to go to the front line and personally command it. We must take the position immediately , otherwise our soldiers will sacrifice their lives in vain. Today I am focused. Two battalions of more than 60 large-caliber guns and rocket launchers launched two salvos against 2 Today's counterattack aims to fully restore the ground position and completely drive the enemy from the high ground. The troops have achieved full control of the 597.9 high ground. The key node is Position 0, which is the main peak of the attack. If the initial starting position of position No. 1 cannot be captured, Taking position 3, 7, 9, and 10 will be affected by the battle. Therefore, position 0 must be captured no matter what the cost. I hope the 2nd Battalion of the 135th Regiment can successfully complete its mission. Why haven't the coordinates of the ground protection of the Thunder position been reported to No. 1? Observer sacrificed. Observer No. 3 has not responded. Observer No. 2 is not in place yet. Tell the autillomen do not be tight fisted with their flares the sun's about to rise so tell the air force to prepare their squadrons i want that position raining with bombs with the first ray of sun yes sir and tell the men hold the position till sunrise if they do now i'll be heroes sir, sweep it clean, okay Close your eyes like this and go away. People have been waiting for this moment of glory all their lives. Don't stop and move forward. audiotide Namo Amida As if these are our soldiers, their faith is like iron and their courage is like steel. In order to win, they will not hesitate to withstand the hail of bullets and bullets with their flesh and blood. It is because of such soldiers that we can continue to fight against the American empire and win continuously. That day, that day when you will not marry me. Ah don't marry me that day Ah don't marry me ah I love you colonel ale neplatone needs you get ready to counter attack sir we just got relieved from the front lines don't talk to me about regulations this order is from the top brass they want everyone in our division involved in the counterattack everyone if you still have your ball soldier go out there and get me my position back yes Sir , oh, Xiao Chen, walk quickly , slowly, slowly, slowly, hold on, hold on, hey, this, this, fast, fast, what's going on? This single piece hit a blood vessel and he started bleeding profusely when he moved. Go and stop the bleeding. There's still something inside. I'm pressed deeper and I'm almost out of breath . Now I lift it up and you go in and see what's going on . It's okay . Here it is again. I have to continue checking him. It looks like his spine is injured. If he moves around, he might be crippled. Are you okay? Can Comrade, please hold on a little longer, I have to touch down further , ah, the goods are coming, the enemy is coming, the goods are coming, the goods are coming, the enemies are coming, the goods are coming, the goods are coming, the fourth row of stations, Wang Chengdong, immediately led 400 squads into the position according to the city The instructions here are to resolutely defeat the enemy. Pay attention to protect the soldiers and not be impulsive. Stand at attention, look to the right, look forward, and announce the combat mission. After everyone enters the position, immediately enter the defensive position. Do you understand? Ming, follow me urgent. supply free kill get sir stand into position Comrades , wait for them to come closer and offer them incense. Comrades, Shenlong Zhan has arrived . Wait until they see clearly before fighting the Dragon Dragon War Camp. They are approaching the stationmaster. Bulk up bulk up bulk up radio. we are radio we are radio sir radio in sir cover fire color fire you give me a color fire fire fire Wusun reinforcements ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah quickly back to the channel ah back to the channel quickly back to the channel back to the channel back to the channel ah back to the channel back to the channel don't worry I'll help you, I'll help you, I'll come on, I'll come on, I'm fine, hurry up, go back to the tunnel and chop. Ah, don't cut it, okay, hold on to me Come back right away ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah a country return to the pit and go back to the tunnel , why do you go to the wiring, this night, our cable line will be connected more than a dozen times . Broken by enemy artillery fire I know this, your squad leader. I have sacrificed all the students from our class . Is there any way now? Our communication class has a storage point in the communication room in the Maoer Cave at the foot of the mountain. There is a telephone interface directly connected to the corpse. I can definitely put it now. Can you still carry out the mission later ? Can you take Xiaodouzi and connect the line to me ? Is it okay to go? The artillery fire has stopped. We don't have time. Let's go. Hurry up. Ding Lan is going. Hey, it's this pair of shoes. Connect it. Come on, hurry hurry up. It's starting again. Hurry up and find a place to hide. I'm trying to avoid you, you're a fool. Position 9, Position 9, Position 10, Position 10, Position 1, No. 1. Is there any news yet? No section chief. What's going on? Xiao Du, I observed from the lookout that part of the offensive on Highland 597.9 has been occupied by the enemy. Have you verified it? Listen over there. Not sure yet Have you contacted the Eighth Alliance? The phone is down. We can't contact you at the moment. The radio is disconnected as soon as the battle starts. I suggest reporting it to Yamashita immediately. No, our intelligence must be verified before we can report it. The battlefield is changing rapidly. After a while, the leaders may make a decision. Wrong judgment, Ye Zi went to the Jiedong Military Headquarters and transferred to the Military Headquarters to feed the Military Headquarters. I am Captain Liu Xiangyang of the Wushengshan Observation Station. Chief of Staff Wu Shengshan called and said that the high ground was occupied by the enemy too quickly. Why didn't the 45th Division notify the Military Headquarters? You stayed behind and I went to find it. Cui Jiangongaijun It's too dangerous. If something unexpected happens to you, how can we fight this battle? The Americans will never be able to make the artillery shells that can hurt me, Qin Jiwei. How about this? Can it be repaired ? We should hurry up. Comrade Zhuangzi is on the phone. We should go back. More enlightened Xiaodouzi, you have to follow me in a moment. We can't take any more risks this time. It's 5 minutes of artillery fire and gunfire. Cui Jiangong. Commander Cui Jiangong. Commander, you don't want to die. What's the matter? You said on the phone that you are an honest person. You are honest. Tell me the truth about the casualties of the current position. What's going on? Feng Baisheng, tell me what's going on on the front line now. Report to the commander. The enemy's artillery fire today was very fierce. Our surface offensive was blown up. The losses were very heavy. Many soldiers were injured and are still holding on to the position. The position is still in our hands. However , we are now short of medicine and ammunition. Except for the chief , I request that the soldiers withdraw. Withdraw the tunnel defense. On behalf of the military department, I agree with your approach of withdrawing the tunnel. You must go up and withdraw it. It is right. It is brave, not a barbaric war , but a criminal. Chief. Lu Qiyuan Let everyone withdraw quickly. Commander, now it seems that the offensive has been lost. Except for position 456, which is still in our hands, we have withdrawn the others into the tunnel, but this is temporary . At night, we will definitely take back the lost position and company. If we seize If you don't come back, I won't come either. I see you. This is Shangganling, not your basketball court. We need to fight back, but we can't be impulsive. According to the 8th Company, the reason why we lost the surface offensive was because the casualties were too high . The ammunition supply was insufficient . Now even the medicine has been used up. Before the mayor's counterattack troops went up , we I got everything I needed as a military salute and I gave you what I shouldn't have given as a military salute . Now that I have failed, Cui Jiangong still wants my face. People have to fight for reputation . If it's not enough, I'll go into the tunnel myself. Now is not the time for you to save face. You also have to look at your fighting spirit . Strength, think about it quickly, we still have How many troops can be mobilized? We still have 8 companies and the 29th Division. The defense change has not been completed. Now transfer these 8 companies to defend Shangganling with all our strength. Give me the 29th Division Zhang Xianyang. Zhang Xianyang, you hear that it will be completed tonight with the 45th Division. The defense switch allowed them to People come to Shangganling immediately. The mayor needs to hurry up . Transportation lines are also a problem. The U.S. military's artillery fire is so crazy now that not a single bullet or medicine can be delivered. Now it's not just a problem of bullets and medicine. There must be many wounded in the tunnels, and health workers are also needed. Send it up, yes do what You bought Manager 12's certificate and received the Major Army Headquarters. Hi, I'm Li Desheng . We fought well in Beijing. It 's time to go back to Gushan for repairs. We're on the way back to Gushan. I've transferred back to the Third Corps and it's yours again. If anything happens, you can do it. Say don't go to Gushan. Come to Wushengshan. The 15th Army suffered a lot of losses in Shangganling. Is it so serious? Those Americans spent a lot of money and are very determined. First of all, I have a regiment as a reserve team, ready to take over at any time. It is officially ordered to arrive at the military headquarters in two days. I have said hello to Commander Zeng. He wants to take charge of the work of the 12th Army. He has to stay. You are the deputy commander. You must have someone in advance. Are you ready to understand? The old military commander was our health worker and he sacrificed his life. I know , but now we don't have time. Let's go, Xiaodouzi, let's go . Come on , comrade, we are a bit of a bean from the 8th Company of the 134th Regiment. This is Comrade Shuangxi from our company. You saw how dangerous the road just now was. You also saw how you came here. I am the health worker Xiang Hong and I am from the field hospital. Last night we arranged for us to provide emergency support to you. How is the situation in your company? The health workers of the Eighth Company sacrificed their lives in the battle. The wounded are all relying on you now. Hard anti-war drugs are basically gone. Hey, where are you going? What are you going to do? If you don't get up, they'll be gone . Run away . Hey , if you don't leave, you're all dead. Go, go, comrade, hurry up , go , go, hey, little Dongzi, you haven't. It's okay. Let's go . It's okay . Little doctor, ah, let's go. I'm sorry. We have to go. Don't let Xiaodouzi's sacrifice be in vain . Go back. It's bigger . Let's go. Yes commander you're on the phone with general Clark he's dropping i just saw the after action report the 7 division took back most of the lost ground sit down all the big guys like good news that's why i didn't take his calls in the morning i'm not sure if it is good news with a casualty count like that that's why we must fight on we need a victory this isn't just about the election it's also about your future if you're going to write my biography you should know the difference between what is admissible and what is not of course so what do you think is most important at this moment limiting the casualty count every American life is precious, hold on, hold on, instructor, deputy company commander, Comrade Xia Hou, all the health workers of the eighth company have sacrificed their lives, I beg you here. There are six of us here and now I am the only one left. Xiaodouzii need a doctor fast faster fast few months ago the dod sent someone to talk to me about retirement arrangements last month my wife Helen thought to tell me that the New York time has reported that the dod has already decided to reassign me looking back i wasn't a distinguished student at west point part of 164 cadets i was ranked 94 my best class was shooting i was great i could have hit ten bulls highs in a row my high school i fought the World War one when many of you were just born ten years ago i was just a commander of the hate regiment oh that was 11 years ago back then my classmate Bradley was already commander of the first army eisen away already commanded three million allied troop and i was just 49 years old regiment commander training with the soldiers on obstacle maneuvers and crossing over the trenches but today i have finally become the commander of anami cope as a commander of the eighth army i will lead you to great victory and end this war this will be my last battle we will kill all the enemies that's turning our way we will level the mountain that's turning our way we will destroy all obstacles that stand in our way remember you are the invincible soldiers of the United States of America, disinfection bandage , alcohol, good flashlight, shine wherever, shine wherever, I will get you another bandage , shine left, left, I dare not look , I dare not look, what are you doing ? Isn't the five-star red flag dyed red with blood? Hold down his leg and we will pass by 10 The fierce battle that lasted for many hours resulted in casualties among the troops. Most of the positions were transferred to tunnel operations. The intensity and cruelty of the battle were unprecedented in the Korean battlefield for more than a year. The enemy died more than 7,000 people, and our 45th Division also suffered about 3,500 casualties. The battle is not over yet. We must remove the enemy from our army. The enemy was driven out of the position and The dying struggle determines the arduousness and cruelty of the war. Our determination is to never stop fighting until we completely annihilate the enemy and restore their positions. Stand up, Deputy Commander Wang. Sit down, sit down. After the ceremony , you pour water in your hands. I will come, Chief of Staff. Ah, okay, no need to be polite. Come sit down, Commander Qin, and tell me what you are thinking now. Commander Dharma King , have you ever hunted a bear? When I was fighting guerrillas in the Taihang Mountains, I had a scout who was a Manchu who was a hunter. They hunted bears in the village. I heard him tell me that they hunted bears a long time in advance. Time means that if you don't wash your face or shave, this bear will have blind eyes and a weak nose. He's afraid of the bear's smell. It has a human touch , but even so, the bear is tall and big. If you can't kill him at once, it will anger him and attack madly. You pretend to be dead, right? Deputy Commander Ma, bears also eat dead things. Later, their village came up with a way to lick the blood with the tip of the knife. Just hearing these words is a bad move. Bury a handful of them on this road where bears are infested. The tip of the knife is smeared with pig's blood. When the bear smells the bloody smell, he licks the knife and it bleeds. His tongue is scratched, but it only angers the bear's animalistic nature. The more it bleeds, the more desperately he licks it. Finally, the bear will The blood vessels on the tongue were cut by the tip of the knife until death. 15th Army thought of the tip of the knife and the hair on my tongue was connected three times. Our tunnel is like the tip of a knife. Van Fleet is this bear. That's what he said. But we counterattack from the tunnel because of our disadvantage . The tip of the knife is not easy to use. One disadvantage, one advantage, disadvantage. I know the advantage, Prince, come here. Look, our tunnel is built on the reverse slope of the hillside. Now Van Fleet thinks that he He won immediately because he thought we were at a disadvantage and he could quickly gain the position . However, we relied on the tunnel and our tenacious fighting power to repeatedly compete with him for position, and he would continue to raise the stakes. The tunnel was like the tip of a knife, making him keep going. That's what I say, but this will put a lot of pressure on you. Commander Mao , I want to see if Van Fleet's steel is stronger or the Volunteer Army's bones are stronger. Only when we defeat the Yankees can we be truly capable. The Chairman said that you should punch away with one punch to avoid hundreds of punches. I will pass on your thoughts to the General Secretary. Fourth , on behalf of myself, I would like to express my support for you to let it go . Commander Gao, the 15th Army, thank you for your trust and support. The pva are always very close when they comment an attack they must have hiding spots nearby find them and take them up. let them know that this is our heel understood yes Sir dismissed bail i'm counting on you or we will have a long night i'll find the Chinese Third platoon leader Hu Bo, please bring someone with me and follow me . I'll be gentle . Has the entrance to the cave been discovered? Stop talking. Hey did. you find tona entrance no Comrades, after summarizing the information from all parties, the number of enemy casualties in the 19th and 20th has reached 3,567. Although this battle was difficult , we also severely killed the enemy's effective forces. According to the section chief, I monitored the enemy's various forces. Judging from the intelligence data of each regiment , Their total casualties should be 2,534. Comrade Wen Jing , I know you are best at enemy reconnaissance, but you must also believe in our comrades. The number 3,567 is calculated by our Wushengshan Observation Station through observation, flank observation , and the numbers reported by each regiment. Section Chief, you see, our institute, Juting County and Zhongxianshan and other auxiliary observation stations have formed an overlapping arc-shaped observation column, so we can continue to observe 597.9 Highlands and 537.7 Highlands. However, there is also the possibility of repeated reporting of data, especially by the US military. of The wounded soldier transportation route will be recorded by several reconnaissance agencies at the same time. Wen Jing will extract a report as you just said. If you need help, I can do it faster by myself. Sister Wen , what is missing from the on-site information in the bureau office ? I am very familiar with this information. Thank you. Wang Yangwen alert. How's the report ? The section chief's report is here. Your data is correct. I'll report it to the city department right away. I'll leave you a breakfast. Just a few pieces of chocolate. I stayed up late yesterday and helped you again today. I can't take more than one bite in the morning. The bar has expired. I brought you some nutrition when I went up the mountain. It was so precious after all. In the first eight days of the war, more than 7,000 enemies were wiped out, but we also joined more than 3,000 people. I didn't expect that Cui Jiangong's division of 27 infantry companies killed 20 of them alive. The situation is not optimistic. The good news is that now the Sihe Corps has been made. Already decided to start The 12th Army, the second echelon of the Corps , has come to support us. It can be used as a reserve. That's great. Other units have begun to reinforce. You inform Zhang Xianyang of the 29th Division to return the 87th Regiment under the command of the 44th Division to the ship and be ready to support the 45th Division at any time. However, the commander of the 87th Regiment is better . Requirements for changing defenses and returning to ship Time, the soldiers in the tunnels may not be able to hold on to food, drink and ammunition supplies for that long. How many people can the military agencies dispatch now? Counting the military agencies and directly affiliated teams, there are more than 1,200 people in total. 1,200 people are divided into 13 combat companies. The first batch Send it today Arrive at the position. The second group stays in the division and is on standby. The third group stays in the military camp for training . A group of military backbones must be trained every day and be ready to refuel at any time. We must be prepared for a protracted war. Divide into three groups. This tactic is good now in the tunnel. There are too many units, too many organizations, too many people, too many thoughts to be unified . Our cadres can play a core and leading role. Unifying their thoughts as quickly as possible and forming underground party branches can make the underground troops form a cohesive fighting body. The political department must vigorously carry out killings. The enemy meritorious service campaign and battlefield reports should promptly publicize heroic deeds. We must not let our heroes remain unknown . I am going to arrange for Lao Zhang to attack Lao Jiang's troops now. Your soil attack and ban-breaking tactics achieved very good results. I have discussed with Director Fu that you will be the commander-in-chief of this tunnel battle. We must persist in drilling into tunnels during the day and attack the enemy with a small force at night , dragging the enemy back into the formation. The ground is fine. Now our soldiers are in the tunnel downstairs. The enemy is in the ground bird position upstairs. Our sharp knife is specially designed to stab the Americans in the butt. This is Minister Li. I have decided to go to the tunnel ahead to participate in the front-line battle. Please approve it. Remember, you have to seize the appropriate evidence and come back alive . I remember, give it a moment, give it a moment. Come here, come here, be quiet, sir, stand still, be quiet, get out of the way, let the incense go by, go by quickly, get out of the way, get out of the way. Everyone, stand at attention and stand by. Every company is there. It's so messy. I have to line up and bandage it. It's good. What's wrong with the break ? Come and help him stand up. Stand up and look at him. Sit there and don't choke. Come on, do it with me. Breathe your breath out . Eat noodles without garlic . The flavor is less than half of the mutton. Drink soup with pepper. Why are you here? Aren't you supposed to be following the big boss and negotiating with the Yankees in the private sector now ? On the battlefield. Don't even expect to get the arrogant nonsense of those Americans at the negotiating table. He said that he wanted to use airplanes and cannons to talk, of course we would accompany him, so you came here because it is the most lively and interesting place. You didn't even say hello to me before you came. Hey, I went up the mountain just the day before yesterday. I am now the fifth company of the 135th regiment. Oh, the fifth company. Hey, you. How are you doing lately? How are you doing at home? I'm returning home. I'm still thinking about them. It's all good. Let's go over there. How old is your daughter ? She's in school. She's 9 years old. She's in second grade. Hey, instructor. Haha, let me introduce you. Is this Comrade Mo Yan, who participated in the negotiations at Zhi private , or my introducer for joining the party? We are 80. Instructor Hu Mancang, 14-year-old Comrade Mo, hello, instructor Hu. Okay, hello, hello , you have a child, is it a boy or a girl? I have a little girl growing up at home. It's quite early to start a family. How are you doing with your check? I've sorted out 16 companies with a total of 85 people. Yes, there are 55 more. The wounded soldiers are now hard to find. They can't find them in class . They can't find them in platoon . They can't find them in company . Let's not talk about basics. Because of the frequency, it is almost turning into a mess. The entire No. 1 tunnel is like a pot of stew. This is not good. An unorganized and undisciplined army is just a mess. We have to quickly find a way to unify the command. Can we contact the commander-in-chief? Can we contact him at all? I estimate that Channel 3 is similar to this one. The only way for the instructor now is to quickly organize the party members and set up a party branch to let the party members and cadres play their roles. Unify the thoughts and unified the command. But the current reality is that each of the 16 companies has its own combat tasks. Everyone wants to hurry up and return to their own. It is difficult to form a company Only when the superiors send representatives can we mobilize them together . Hi, report to the instructor, deputy company commander. Except for the seriously injured comrades, all the other party members and comrades in the tunnel are here. Comrades, the organization of the unit has been disrupted. I know that everyone is at a loss and wants to contact the superiors. Know the next step of action But please don't worry. The person standing next to me is Comrade Mo Yuan, who just came down from the Administration. Comrade Mo Yuan usually deals with the leaders of our volunteer army. He had a meeting with our boss Peng. Because... The Special Intelligence Department specially sent him down to guide the work and help us fight in this situation. Next, we would like to ask Comrade Mo Yuan to introduce to us the latest instructions from our superiors. Comrades, I want to ask you a question. Why do we come all the way from our hometown to the Korean battlefield ? Play beauty The Chinese devils came to us just to fight the American devils. We must not only fight but also defeat them. We must drive them out of our positions and out of the Korean battlefield. Therefore, the principle of all our actions is to destroy the enemy and preserve ourselves. But if there is no unified It is impossible to win the war by commanding us. We are simply a mess. The most important thing now is that we must establish a tunnel party organization. Only under the leadership of the party organization can we work together to defend our positions and report victory together . We all have no opinion on the fact that only when comrades are organized can we win the war , but we are not familiar with how to carry out organizational construction work. Does the superior leader have any instructions for the specific work ? Please let instructor Hu explain it to everyone. Comrades, I am the Eighth Company. Instructor Hu Mancang, this is Duan Xianfeng, the deputy company commander of the Eighth Company. Currently, the two of us are in charge of commanding Tunnel No. 1. The current situation in Tunnel No. 1 is that a total of 16 cadres and soldiers of the organic company have been withdrawn. I know that you each have your own operations. I understand that everyone in the mission is worried about the situation of their respective companies , but as Comrade Mo Yuan said just now, we have a common combat mission, which is to defeat the enemy , resist U.S. aggression, aid Korea, and protect our country. But look at the situation in the tunnel now. Just like a pot of stew that has just been cooked, it has no taste. Some vegetables are rotten as soon as they are cooked. Some vegetables are not cooked no matter how hard they are cooked. Is it edible? I definitely can't eat it. What's missing from this pot of food is a spoon. Master, who is this master? The party branch has gathered everyone We are here to establish the tunnel party branch of the Eighth Company. From now on, all the soldiers in Tunnel No. 1 will be merged into the Eighth Company. The Eighth Company Party branch will have unified thoughts and unified command to complete our common tasks. Defeat the enemy and strive for victory. Mr. Hu Shun will be your leader. Secretary of our party branch, let me give you a vote. In view of the complicated situation of the war , Next, I announce the formal establishment of the Party branch of the Eighth Company Tunnel Road. The report said that we now have a party branch . Military who directs the military I think Duan Xianfeng, the deputy commander of the Eighth Company, will be in charge . Everyone may not be familiar with him. Comrade Duan Xianfeng was once a combat staff officer of the military department. On the 18th, he led the Eighth Company with zero casualties and passed through the enemy's artillery blockade. The fallen ones were brought to Tunnel No. 1 , and Deputy Company Commander Duan is very familiar with the position situation around Tunnel No. 1 , so it is most appropriate for him to serve as military command. Now, I would like to ask Deputy Company Commander Duan to arrange the work. Comrades, thank you for your support to me. Trust me, no more nonsense , now I will announce how many Item Temporary Provisions: The first report is to be prioritized, then arranged, and then to the company. Second, the special area in the tunnel is not allowed to be occupied unreasonably. Third, all our comrades who have been squad leaders and platoon leaders must listen to my command . Now I will re-arrange all comrades. Peng Bai, commander of the eighth company Sheng led the first platoon leader Chang Dayou in the No. 3 tunnel. The second platoon leader has already sacrificed his life. Now I appoint Comrade Wei Nan as the second platoon leader and deputy company commander. I have only been a deputy squad leader before. Do you dare to ask me to be the platoon leader? The third platoon leader Wu Bo has the fourth platoon leader Wang Chengdong the fourth platoon leader My leg is injured. I will convey the spirit of the meeting . Now we are all a family. We are all comrades of the Eighth Company , so we must work together to win this battle. The battlefield is really a refining furnace. If Unless I see it with my own eyes , I really can't believe that you have become such an excellent deputy company commander. It's not my transformation , it's the soldiers who have influenced me. I used to firmly believe that firepower and equipment are the key to winning the war , but this time I was on the battlefield and I saw that we I understand the wisdom and courage of the soldiers who are not afraid of sacrifice. That's the key to winning the war. You see, our firepower and equipment are far inferior to those of our opponents, but we are not afraid of your artillery shells. We can drill into tunnels during the day, but you can't defeat us at night. The most important thing is that you see, in less than one night, we can use the party organization as our leader. The center has reorganized into a complete combat force, so I now firmly believe that as long as one of us is still alive, we will be able to take the position. In our hands, even if we sacrifice all our comrades, it will be settled. I am just happy to be your introducer to join the party and transport you to the base area to do revolutionary work. Now judging from your words, you and still working hard. I have to thank you. Without you, I wouldn't be where I am today. But we can't stay where we are. In the future war, only the tenacious will of the soldiers is not enough. We must master advanced firepower and advanced equipment in order for our army to truly become an invincible force. This pit fighting is really awesome. Such fierce artillery bombardment by the US military is invincible. Hey , can you tell me the secret of this tunnel to get the rope? Oh, this tunnel, I I have to tell you in detail that it will take three days and three nights. I will tell you briefly and emphatically that you must guard the tunnels. The first thing is ventilation. You see, we have built multiple vents in each tunnel. The concealment of these vents is not something that a university student can learn. How to protect the tunnel? We can prevent fire, biochemicals, and explosives. We can be decisive. Oh, the phone line finally got through. I contacted Tunnel No. 3 and got the company commander 's instructions. The company commander said, &quot; Hey, it's clear in the city. We drill holes during the day and harass and kill the enemy at night. That's all. &quot; The company commander also praised us for establishing the tunnel party branch and said that we coincided with the military headquarters. Haha. Hahaha, that's great. Hahaha. Oops , I'm hungry. It's time for a late night snack . Come on, hey, what did you say about late night snacks? This is what we mean by operating at night. When the enemy advances, we retreat. When the enemy is tired, we disturb the enemy, and we retreat. This is our deputy company commander for guerrilla tactics in Shangganling. Please take me with you. I want to avenge the comrades who died in our company. I can't go. The enemy's defense has been very tight these days . Our party member vanguard will wait for two days to find out tonight. I'll take you there after I know the situation. As a party member, count me as Comrade Wei Yan. What are you going to do ? Do you know the situation here? Do you know the terrain here? It's too dangerous for you to stay in the tunnel. Comrades who are representatives who need party members to do their work. This war is just like cooking in a restaurant. There are cutters, spoons, and water fetchers . A radish and a pit for you. They are mainly responsible for tasting and giving opinions. Don't talk to us. Take the life of pulling carrots , hahaha. I'm not here to taste it. I'm here just to fight on the front line. Comrade, I'm the commander here now. I order you to stay in the tunnel section. Comrade Feng, I am higher than you in terms of rank. I came from the private sector , but here you are a scholar and I am a soldier. I have more opportunities for revenge. Please obey the order and take care of me. On behalf of comrades, you are not allowed to leave the tunnel for even half a step. Is it Cui Jiangong that we should unblock the pothole ? Please ask the comrade in Tunnel No. 1 to tell Mo Yuan, a Confederate guard who rolled over in the opposite direction, that he has information about Sniper Island . After arriving at Sniper Island, go to Warehouse No. 7 to connect. Bring the intelligence back as soon as possible, Minister Li. The United States has been entangled with the issue of prisoners of war. I want to go to Sniper Island to see what is going on there. I am requesting you to launch an operation. Minister Li , please let me go. Since you can't sit still anymore. Then you go to the front line and take a look, okay ? This operation can be called the front line. Dabai, you can't leave from here . The deputy company commander said you can't leave. This is an order. Tell Duan Xianfeng, I'm seriously injured. I need a mission . Did you just seal the entrance to Tunnel No. 3 ? Why was it exposed? How was it exposed? Fan Yuanbao disobeyed orders and came out of the pit without permission. What else can you do ? Then , why don't you, a living person, understand? The person who lost his ass is gone. How are you thinking? You ran out alone. What are you looking at ? Oh, my God, you are so angry. My, you, oh my god , oh my god , my representative Mo answered the phone and said he had a mission, so he went out. I sent him to the entrance of the cave. I saw an American soldier and took a cold shot. Fan Yuanbao probably fired at the entrance of the cave. Our cave entrance will be discovered by the US military observation post. His behavior should have enforced battlefield discipline, but it is excusable. The top priority now is the US military's upcoming attack on the tunnel. These places belong to us. The vent here is the entrance and exit of the tunnel. Let's all talk about how you would attack and block the mouth of the tunnel if you were the enemy. No one can escape. The tunnel is most afraid of smoke. If I were the enemy, I would pour smoke into the tunnel as hard as I could. As long as there is enough smoke. Smoke will come out of the vents , so the vents will be exposed and the enemy will block the vents. We will either suffocate in the tunnel or we will be beaten to death by the enemies when we go out . the first and only one who ever drunk in my office sir i can't accept don't be nervous at least you drove them back into their holes tell me what your plan is i'm a little tired of reading the same sea traps every day how many of our troops died what position were lost in taking back again the amount of surprise attack by the Chinese by night the repetitiveness is making me a little sluggish too tricky they're just like groundhawks it's hard to determine where they're going to attack next since i'm the commander of this army i haven't discussed tragedy with my subordinates in this detail but i will make an exception with you you need to use barbed wire to sever the connection between their tunnels in order to reduce them ability you're a major general now and i've almost given up all whole hopes and your ability to command you idiot get your ass back in the frontline i've almost studied with you yes sir ready light them Up, damn, this is going to get in. How did they find this ? You have to contact the newspaper Yuanbao quickly. Bring the phone. It's cannon paper. Now we can only use barrels to harden it. Others have bombed to our door. We must get cannon. Go back and let them know that this is not a place they can just come to if they want to. Hello, pick up the newspaper. I am Deputy Commander Gao Fengliang, Deputy Commander Gao. Hello, I am Duan Xianfeng of the 8th Company. I know you are Duan Xianfeng. What's wrong? The enemy is approaching No. 1 Tunnel on the reverse slope of Highland 597. Please open fire immediately. The artillery fire will cover the 597 Anti-Slope immediately. The bevel is not just a reflection There is also a tunnel entrance on the slope. What if I blow up the tunnel entrance? Tunnel No. 1 is different from other tunnels. It is very strong and won't collapse. So what if it blows up to someone? Stop talking nonsense and start firing. Your young son, Yao Wu and Liu, is still taking command. Here I am, Commander Takagi. I am Hu Mancang, the instructor of the Eighth Company . In terms of level and shame, you are higher than me, but you speak in a reasonable manner. Now we are discussing tactics. The enemy is about to attack Pit No. 1. If you don't fire the artillery, leave. Pit No. 1 is gone. Who the hell is responsible for this? I'll tell you the Eighth Company. He's even more tempered than me. If he hangs up and shoots rockets, I'll sing first. Red face, your communication will be smoother later, listen to me, yes, take the shot, Deputy Commander , listen to me, the enemy is coming soon. If you don't fire the No. 1 tunnel, it will be over . Hurry up and fire now. I will help you adjust the design and support you at any time. If you dare to give me random orders, I'll go through it myself. Go and shoot your high deputy commander. I am your eyes now. Please believe me. Head to the southwest 200 meters high and low. Simple drop to the left. 002 Target 597.9 Highland No. 1 Passenger Road is outside. Run outside to the southeast. 300 meters high and low. Reduce 0.5 and rush to the left. 003 150 meters west, height plus 1.5 Turn to the right 001. Stop firing. The enemy has withdrawn. Can we give chase? Everyone is ready to pursue. Listen to my command. Get ready . Hey, don't worry, don't worry. The center is coming soon. Bombs are coming. How about seeing if the ancestors are injured ? They are scratched. Why don't you listen to orders? Don't listen to orders again. You Get out of here, let's go out and take a look. Come on, it's still for the barrel. Hand over all the guns . It's accurate, time and distance are coordinated. Returning to the tunnel is hiding the entrance of the tunnel to prevent the enemy from discovering it.