The 9th of April 1940. Under the Nazi Germany invades Denmark Denmark's importance to Germany is as a In Norway, Germany seeks to secure naval bases Sea and to guarantee vital iron-ore shipments from While invasion of Denmark lasts less than six conducted by the Germans during the war, Norway 10th of June 1940. On 1 February 1942, the pro-Nazi collaborationist puppet government and sent Jews out of the country to Poland. His name, which will become a byword for Vidkun Abraham Lauritz Jonsson Quisling was Norway. His father Jon Lauritz Quisling and Vidkun's mother Anna Caroline Bang came In 1905, then the 18-year-old Vidkun Quisling had achieved the highest score on the notoriously Quisling entered the Military Academy to pursue with the best grades in the history of the King of Norway rewarded him by inviting In 1911, Quisling joined the General Staff 28th of July 1914, the First World War began. detested the peace movement, though the high In March 1918, he was sent to Russia as Petrograd. Though dismayed at the living nonetheless concluded that &quot;the Bolsheviks have society&quot; and marvelled at how Leon Trotsky had He asserted that by contrast, in granting the Russian Provisional Government under own downfall. When the legation Quisling became the Norwegian In September 1919, Quisling departed Norway Norwegian delegation in Helsinki in Finland, a post that combined diplomacy and politics capital Kharkiv to help with the League of In august of the same year, he married the appeared that there was no romantic involvement merely seemed to have wanted to lift the a Norwegian passport and financial security a Ukrainian more than ten years his junior. claimed Alexandra was their daughter, His time in Russia, however, had the thought. Quisling called his political to develop a collective consciousness for from the individual level to the national level. as Quisling incorporated a belief in Nordic to world unity would only be achieved under Quisling permanently returned to Norway in Defense between 1931 and 1933 as a member of refused to appoint Quisling as party leader, he co-founded the Nasjonal Samling - meaning also became the party's forer, or leader. The - a corporatist vision of society - paternalism of the state However, the Nasjonal Samling was not successful elections, the party took 2.2% of the vote. outbreak of World War II, it took only enough for the party to ever hold a seat in the In addition, dwindling party membership especially financial ones. For years and reliant on his inheritance, paintings which he had acquired cheaply to be copies when he tried to sell them. His including works claimed to be by Rembrandt, However, sometimes even originals did not raise brother Arne sold one Frans Hals painting for a copy and not the fifty-thousand-dollar only to see it reclassified as an original In 1939, Quisling turned his attention towards European war, which he believed involved a spending to guarantee its neutrality. Meanwhile, problem in Norway&quot; and supported Adolf Hitler in Despite condemning Kristallnacht which was a the Jews throughout Nazi Germany and recently 9th - 10th of November 1938, he sent the thanking him for &quot;saving Europe from Bolshevism that should an Anglo-Russian alliance make &quot;to go with Germany.&quot; Invited to the country in of German and Danish cities. He was received funds to boost Nasjonal Samling's standing in At the start of the World War II in 1939, strategic importance for Germany. Erich Raeder, was concerned about maintaining German Atlantic Ocean via naval bases on the first Raeder, then Hitler met with Quisling. suggested the British were planning to move into Germany began planning Operation Weserubung, invasion of Norway under General Nikolaus The same day, while the German offensive got the world's first radio-broadcast coup d'etat. He welcome, rather than resist, the advancing and declared himself the new head of state. announcement. This time, he issued a warning that would "henceforth involve the most serious Quisling now reached the high-water mark of his Germany's representative in Norway at the time of Quisling head of a new government, thereby giving legal sanction to the occupation. However, a meeting with his cabinet, telling the ministers because neither the people nor the Parliament of that he would sooner abdicate than appoint any government unanimously voted to support the king's government headed by Quisling and urged the popular support gone, Quisling ceased to be of use rival government, preferring instead to build up 15, 1940, Nazi leadership forced him to step down. domestic and international reputation both hit new Norway fell to Germany on June Minister Johan Nygaardsvold On April 24, 1940, Hitler appointed Josef Norwegian Territories. General Von Falkenhorst, of Denmark and Norway in 1940, retained military than Quisling's Nasjonal Samling were outlawed. As a position as head of the cabinet under Terboven. president of a National Government that was In the course of the summer of 1942, Quisling public opinion by attempting to force children organisation, which was modelled on the Hitler of teachers from their professional along with large-scale civil unrest. His proved similarly controversial, even amongst his telling Norwegians that they would have the new not.&quot; On 1 May 1942, the German High Command has started&quot; and Norway's peace talks with Hitler postponed any further peace negotiations for the first time he was forbidden Quisling believed that the only way he could win for the now-faltering German war effort. After he committed Norway wholeheartedly About 15,000 Norwegians volunteered for combat action as part of the Germanic SS, most were the collective name given to paramilitary parts of German-occupied Europe between 1939 One of Quisling's first acts in his role as Jewish paragraph of the Norwegian constitution. prevented Jews from immigrating to Norway. From a series of laws that enabled the arrest of all Jewish-owned property and assets, and There were approximately 2,100 Jews in Norway at about 350 German and Austrian refugees who had the mass arrest of Jewish men, Nazi officials began to arrest women and children. Acting the Norwegian police arrested Jews throughout to Germany. The first deportation of 532 Jews deported on February 25, 1943, followed 772 Norwegian Jews were deported from the Norwegian Jews were sent by ship to the German Poland. They were then transferred by train to upon arrival. However, 34 Norwegian Jews--all the war. Fortunately however, many Jews received policemen and members of the underground. As escaped to neutral Sweden with the aid of the Following the deportation of the Jews, Germany to deport students from the University of of the arrests. Quisling became entangled forced compulsory military service on elements resign to avoid being drafted. The Hirden was the occupation of Norway by Nazi Germany, On 20 January 1945, Quisling made what would Norwegian support in the final phase of the would remove Norway's affairs from German fear that as German forces retreated southwards have to struggle to keep control in northern the Nazis instead decided on a scorched earth to shoot Norwegian civilians who refused to by increasing civilian casualties from Allied air within occupied Norway. The meeting with the asked to sign the execution order of thousands an act of defiance that so enraged Terboven, the negotiations. On recounting the events of the convinced the Nazi refusal to sign a peace Adolf Hitler committed suicide on 30 April National Socialism would be defeated and on 7 May, the Allied advance except in self-defence resistance movement. The same day, Germany making Quisling's position untenable. A realist, on the following day to discuss how he would did not want to be treated as a common criminal, to his Nasjonal Samling colleagues. He argued he but had chosen ensure a peaceful transition On 9 May 1945, Quisling and his ministers was transferred to Cell 12 in Mollergata cell was equipped with a tiny table, a basin, After ten weeks being constantly watched to he was transferred to Akershus Fortress and The trial opened on 20 August 1945. Quisling and other crimes. The most worrying of all with Hitler over the invasion and occupation acted in Norway's best interest and always with misrepresented the truth on several occasions won him few advocates in the country at large, In the later days of the trial, Quisling's number of medical tests to which he was prosecution's final speech placed responsibility Norway at the feet of Quisling, using On 10 September 1945, when Quisling was convicted on all but a handful After giving testimony in a number of Quisling was executed by firing squad at Akershus words before being shot were, &quot;I'm convicted his body was cremated, leaving the ashes to Quisling's residence, Villa Grande, which he today hosues the Norwegian Center for Holocaust education and documentation center in Oslo extremism, antisemitism, hate speech, and the On 8 May 1945, 1 day before he turned I know that the Norwegian people have sentenced me would be to take my own life. But I want to in ten years' time I will have However, he was wrong. While the saga of Saint is a symbol of Norwegian independence and history's most infamous traitors owing Outside of Norway, the word "quisling" has and became synonymous with "traitor," a use continues to be applied to political especially invading forces. However, it is also betrayal of Norway to Germany has made his name There were no teras shed for Vidkun Quisling. Thanks for watching the World History Channel be sure to like And subscribe and click the miss our next episodes we thank you and