Hello, it's me Austin. If you're new a passion for fashion and wearable arts. Last episode, I showed you how I made the Jewels. In this episode, I will show you how put on my Royal King dress: the royal medals, the the aiguillettes, and the belt buckle. are these items that I've just talked First, the aiguillettes. a small needle, and is the tip which covers the to an ornamental braided cord with decorative the uniform of government officials or members of status, and can be seen in many countries around These shiny gold ornaments are mostly seen in There are several origin stories to the they were the pins used to secure a shoulder Nowadays, aiguillettes are solely decorative. As seen on many portraits and photographs, the Royal family wear a belt as part of their or sword belt because its main purpose made in episode 1 of this series!). beautiful belt buckle, which is made of brass. insignia of the British Royal The Order of Garter Badge. badge worn by Knights and Ladies of the of knighthood that still exists today. Edward III of England. He founded the knighthood Its membership is extremely limited, consisting more than 24 full members known as Companions. King Edward VII's first acts as king was to The badge itself is a silver star of eight Cross within a garter. The inscription on and it's Anglo-Norman for "shame The Royal Victorian Order Cross. insignia of the Royal Victorian Order, a in 1896 by Queen Victoria as a way for her had helped her directly. The order rewards performed for the Sovereign or the Royal Family. cross, an oval of crimson enamel with the So, my plan to recreate these ornaments is to these models, then cover them in silver and some finishing touches with acrylic paint. called Sketchup. I spent around 3 weeks to glad to say that if you would like to make these through all of this headache. Because these 3D over at my Patreon shop for you to purchase, and into the fun part of crafting. I sent them to a local 3d-printing machine! And here are the printed products. haven't mentioned, and that is the medals. So I had decided to buy some prop medals on the real things. I tried to choose the ones that medals, eliminating designs that clearly such as the US or Germany. This one even Let's start with the Order of Garter star. I had the back to perfectly fit an 18mm brooch back. should have been placed higher, I originally gravity kept pulling the star down. Don't position of the dimple on the 3D model. counter gravity to keep the star upright. adhesive all over the surface I used a round paint brush to apply the very thin layer of adhesive on the object. If just dab the excess off with a cotton swab. which is the best choice in most cases. that if you're applying gilding foil to oil After I have applied the adhesive, it is essential and that usually takes between 15 and 30 minutes. gilding foil to these babies! since they are silver, I used silver leaves The leaves come- in pages like this, each so I would not want to do this outside in the unless I want to have a confetti shower. leafing to lift it to the gilding site, I continued laying the foil on until the over having wrinkles, or overlapping foil, in the next step. What truly matters is Now I took a big, soft brush, like a makeup the foil on the adhesiveeeee... I'm having the foil on the adhesive... Sorry about that. I took a small, stiffer brush, and vigorously, surface to burnish and remove the excess foil. magically turn into a shiny and smooth and satisfying sight of the whole process, I'm so fascinated by the world of 3D printing. you can literally create anything out of thin changer and I totally get why many artists their own 3d-printing machines and workshops. cross, I simply repeated the process of gilding. area I wanted to be golden. A liner brush or a best precision. And of course, I needed to Now I used imitation gold foil. These were the For small detail gilding, this is a great way Shiny! self-explanatory, but it really pulls the whole can use a liner brush, I painted the red and blue I wanted to wear the Victorian Order so I attached a golden bail. and the belt buckle are all-gold, which makes gilding steps I've demonstrated earlier! typical belt buckle, The Royal navy buckle comes left of the round face for the belt strap to be bar for the other end of the belt strap. where the loose end bar can be hooked Although this was a fun process, I have your entire room would be littered with flakes of It's the same as those pesky glitters, you'd some of your body parts, for the next few months. to wear a mask, so you wouldn't inhale these very these gilding foils are made from actual metal. These ornaments would be placed onto my Royal I can't wait to show you how I made the whole so stay tuned! For now, thank