Asking how big the universe is seems like I mean- like- it's big. Really big. How big, you might ask? Oh, I dunno, there's probably a 'your momma' say that it's ginormous. But ginormous isn't really a scientific So, seriously now, how big is the universe? Well the first thing you need realize is that question is asking. We first need to distinguish between the entire Those are different things. So how much of the universe can we see from Well light has a finite speed, specifically 186,000 miles per second, which means that seeing it like it was in the past. For instance, it takes light from the Sun You probably knew that. But that has bigger implications. For instance, that means that there is a sphere distance where light takes eight minutes to And that sphere idea is true in general. There is a sphere around the Earth with a If we could somehow send lots of super bright and briefly blinked them, what would happen to get to Earth and they'd arrive at the When we saw them, we'd be seeing a blink lightyear away. We can take this idea to the extreme and ask and that is, by definition, the moment the That happened 13.8 billion years ago. If the universe wasn't expanding, the farthest on the Earth, with a radius of 13.8 billion This is what we call the visible universe. Inside that sphere, light has had time to Outside that sphere, it hasn't. We can't see anything outside that sphere. Now I should caution you and point out that are true only if the universe isn't expanding. Of course, it is expanding, so the situation I made a video about how that changes things it. But the bottom line is that there is a sphere the visible universe. Is that how big the entire universe is? The answer to that is almost certainly no. The universe is bigger than we can currently And you already kind of knew that. For instance, as we look out and see the light we can see out to some distance. If we look again tomorrow, we will be able light day. That's because light traveling over the to us tomorrow. And, inexorably, day after day, we will be the universe. There are locations that we cannot see today to get to us, that we will be able to see Again, this ignores the complications due We'll get to that in a minute. So if the entire universe is larger than the Well, to answer that question, we need to Let's start with talking about the oldest As it happens, we can't see the moment the That's because the early universe was so You can sort of think of it like a fog. However, there was a moment about 380,000 cooled enough to become clear. The temperature at which that happened is degrees Fahrenheit. Everywhere in the universe the temperature And, at 3,000 degrees, it was glowing hot. So you'd think that when we looked out with what you'd see in a steel mill. But this is where the expansion of space comes Since that moment, the universe has been expanding The upshot of that is that what once would is now no longer visible and can only be seen For that reason, this oldest thing that we background, or CMB, and the temperature of kelvin, or -270 degrees centigrade, or -455 Pick your favorite units. So that's the first big thing. This microwave radiation that measures that is a fossil remnant of light emitted when This temperature is almost the same everywhere, variations in the universe's temperature. These variations really are incredibly tiny. The hottest and coldest spots are only a hundredth Our current best measurement of these variations Astronomers using the Planck observatory have temperature variations is what we see here. The blue spots are colder than average and So those temperature differences are pretty the size of the universe? It turns out that these variations were caused it became transparent. And because we know the temperature the universe total amount of matter we can see in the universe, waves. It's a complicated calculation, but a straightforward And I want to emphasize that there is no guesswork We have heated matter to these temperatures the visible universe. We know a great deal about the wavelengths Sound in the early universe is pretty much Sound is transmitted through variations in of frequencies. In the early universe, the regions of higher in hotter and colder spots in the cosmic microwave And, given that we know the wavelength of became transparent, we can calculate the angular spots in the microwave background. Further, we can calculate what size is the viewed from Earth. Okay- so now we're getting somewhere. We have a firm prediction of the size of the This brings us closer to our question, which Now that prediction of one degree depends Remember that Einstein's theory of relativity Space could be one of a variety of different It's hard to imagine this in the three dimensions substitute a two dimensional analogy. Bear with me. A flat two-dimensional space is like the surface Flat means flat. But a two-dimensional space could be like on walking you could, in principle, end up This is called a closed space. Another possibility is space could be shaped This is an example of what is called an open So those are the three basic possibilities How does that fit into our question? It comes down to the fact that light travels But, if space is curved, then we can get fooled. Let's use the hot and cold spots in the If space is flat and a distant spot in the we will measure its size as one degree. This is the simple mathematics of triangles straight lines travel in - well straight But that behavior doesn't have to apply. Let's see why. For instance, if two ants were in flat space and started walking parallel to one another will always stay the same distance apart. If you do the same thing on a closed or spherical one another because straight lines in curved This is like lines of longitude on a globe, intersect at the pole. And the opposite is true in an open space There, the two ants, initially a fixed distance lines, will eventually diverge and get farther That's just curved space for you. So this has consequences when measuring the microwave background. If space is flat, the line that crosses the that go from the edges of the spot to your But in an open or closed curved space, the Let me be more specific, because this is super In a closed, or spherical, space, what one in a specific way. The crucial effect is that the angle of the if space wasn't curved. The opposite is true for a closed, or hyperbolic, Here, the curvature is in the opposite direction. We see that the angle of the triangle near curved. Now the telescope can't see the whole path All it sees is the angle of the light coming All you see is the angle of light coming into angle being bigger than expected and the angle being smaller. And if we apply this to the spots in the microwave one degree wide in flat space will be different So this is a perfect way to test whether space In a flat space, the dominant size of the If space is curved and closed, the spots should If space is curved and open, the spots should So what did Planck and other experiments find? A drum roll please, maestro? The measurements found that the size of the From that, we conclude that space is flat. Or can we? Well, yes, sort of. But that is an incautious statement. Physics is an experimental science. When we say that the Earth is flat, what we with being flat. But that also means that the measurement is For example, if we're at the beach on the flat. But, in spite of the claims of some people, It's a sphere. So, you have to keep this in mind. What appears to be flat can, indeed, be curved. And when we measure space, we can only say And that is true of space as well. Space appears to be flat. If, and I repeat if, space is flat, then the Our visible universe just a small bubble in Similarly, if space is shaped like a saddle...what is also infinite. But what if space is closed and shaped like the Earth can look flat? Well, in that case, space is not infinite. It has a finite size. So now we're getting somewhere. If the universe is closed, how big is it? Well if you do a careful analysis, using the best measurements, you find that the universe the visible universe. So that's your answer. I mean we've always kind of thought that number on that. The visible universe, meaning the part of is a sphere, centered on the Earth and taking a diameter of 92 billion lightyears. However the entire universe, including the wider than that. And the universe could indeed be infinite We've come a long way from simple speculation Seemingly intractable questions are now getting for the day. Okay, so that was a very cool topic. The thought that we can actually constrain the bits we can't see is just mind-blowing. You should realize that there is even more include simply- versus multiply-connected But, you know, I had to leave something for If you liked what you saw, be sure to like, And please subscribe to the channel, because that you're probably my kind of people - the everything.