The concept of miniature versions of classic games, is a fantastic one. Done right, it's an affordable, simple way and relive our childhoods. Done wrong, it's the PlayStation Classic. Sega is the latest company to throw its hat selection of games is one of the most important systems are worth purchasing, we're ranking to best. That's the Genesis if you're from North America but we call it the Mega Drive in the UK and we're doing it for this whole 64 point list. YEAH "But Triple Jump! There are 42 games on the Mega Drive Mini, and the number of entries on this list is greater than 42. Who are you trying to fool?" The answer is nobody. We're honest and we love you. But the Mega Drive Mini is actually being a Western version, a Japanese version, and They each include different games, and we'll Before we get to the rankings and you start a Raspberry Pi, a few ground rules. For starters, we aren't just considering Mini consoles such as this one serve as samplers So, yes, while it's important that a game its historical value. In addition, we'll be considering how readily It's a small consideration, but if a game Sega has already released, its value on the Well, it makes sense to us. You can like it or lump it. I'm Peter from TripleJump, and this is Every To Best. #64: Party Quiz Mega Q When you think of all the fun you might have thinking about playing Japanese quiz games out of date. But if you are, Party Quiz Mega Q will be Obviously this was not a game designed with the fact that we won't be getting it should Just as obviously, it should come as no disappointment. There are far better things to include on a fancy multiple-choice exam. Party Quiz Mega Q did some pretty interesting players and including fake commercials to in a genuine quiz show, but we definitely to play it today. #63: Sonic the Hedgehog Spinball We aren't saying that Sonic the Hedgehog by anyone with respect for your time -- is It's just definitely not, in any sense whatsoever, It is, at the very least, an interesting novelty. Sonic taking the place of an actual pinball Sega got there with its mascot a full 11 years Land. Sonic fans were used to seeing the Blue Blur and flipped him around pinball-inspired levels Unfortunately, this game was not a product but of Sega insisting on a quick product to Sonic Spinball came together in only around irritating design, and distinct lack of fun #62: Sword of Vermilion Fans of RPGs will certainly be saddened to westward. Fans of good RPGs, however, will be far less The graphics look okay, but it must be said of its release, and the objectives are so 100-plus page hint book telling you what to The game fares no better in combat that it The range on your attacks is laughably short, as much damage as you inflict. Your character can level up and you can buy but while your character does get stronger #61: Altered Beast At this point, we think even Altered Beast Beast. While the arcade original has its small, easily Drive version likely only sold as well as games available for the system. The basic concept of the game is that you're In Greece, we guess? Turning into a wolf?We have no idea. Fans of tedium will certainly be well-served it. The sad fact that it did sell well is likely grave," being featured in far more collections For a game that nobody should want to play, play it. #60: Vectorman From a technological standpoint, Vectorman From any other standpoint...ehhh, it was fine, In the more primitive video game generations, look more advanced than they really were. See the wireframes of Battlezone, or the simple Vectorman did its best to produce smooth animations the Mega Drive by building a character out The result was indeed impressive by Mega Drive that has aged well visually, ironically looking platformers it attempted to outdo. It's worth giving Vectorman a spin, just nothing to see sphere... here #59: Assault Suit Leynos Some games qualify as punishing, and others In the latter category we have Assault Suit as Target Earth. Many games at the time leaned on brutal difficulty Suit Leynos is one of the games that leaned This is disappointing, because there's actually Your performance in one stage determines the It has more than a dozen different weapons, in 1990. And if you thought Halo introduced regenerating health to the video-game landscape, you'd be very wrong It's not your health regenerating, it's your shield. And even if it was health, it still wouldn't be the first Assault Suit Leynos may not have introduced But it is here! A fairer concept of difficulty would almost as there's so much it does right. As it stands, it's a frustrating relic that #58: Eternal Champions Eternal Champions is one of roughly forty-thousand of games like Mortal Kombat and Street Fighter It's also not an especially inventive one. It works, don't get us wrong, and the game's in their own right. Beyond that, though, the only things Eternal and settings, which are drawn from real and It's worth playing for its novelty, but One hot and fresh science fact, though, is Activator, a very early attempt at motion Thankfully the game takes pity on anyone who granting them increased attack power and defense. It was the least they could do for the one #57: Slap Fight MD Neither a fighting game nor the medical doctor named Xevious clone. What's the difference between the two games? The name, basically, and now that you've instead. Okay, that's not entirely fair. Slap Fight MD does have a powerup system that an admittedly competent one. It may not add much--or anything--to the enough to warrant a few minutes of your time. We're not too fussed about missing out on After all, we're getting plenty of forgettable #56: Light Crusader Though it received positive reviews at the has gone down a bit in recent years, as its novelty it had--and it was indeed little--has You are David, a guy with a sword who is asked David, being a video game character, agrees Crusader, and what little there is to do is perspective. It certainly doesn't look or sound bad, areas either. It's a mediocre experience at best, and history, as nobody in their right mind cares #55: ToeJam &amp; Earl Your personal level of tolerance for the sustained, we can't speak to, but for us it's fairly To be clear, the game's bright colors and points. But its limited gameplay and aimless silliness The game tasks you with walking around a floating parts is there. Then you take an elevator to another floating parts is there instead. Riveting stuff. The map layouts and locations of the spaceship would lead to increased replay value, but yourself with the game to strip away the tedium. In the parlance of ToeJam &amp; Earl's time, Also, gnarly is a bad thing. You've been using the word incorrectly for #54: The Super Shinobi Eastern gamers are getting a Shinobi game because it's really not that good. Known as The Revenge of Shinobi to us Westerners, to be developed with a console audience in As such, there are still a few kinks to be The character movement is stiff, as though a massage parlor, and the level and enemy What's more, it's unlikely that this will game, which contained unlicensed cameos by faces that Sega, legally, had no right to Of course, it's important to remember that just worse than most Shinobi games. #53: Columns Columns was Sega's answer to Tetris, and It was different enough that it didn't feel compelling experience. However, it was far from the best falling-block Heck, it's far from the best falling-block As a filler title, the Mega Drive Mini could Columns has a nice soundtrack, is perfect a genuine part of Sega's legacy, as a version Game Gear. But it's unlikely to be the first, second, to when booting up their adorable little Mini. It exists, and it's a welcome inclusion, from you than it will from us. #52: Phantasy Star IV: The End of the Millennium The Phantasy Star series was the defining Star IV was overall the best-received installment. For that reason alone, it's nice to have show its age. While it still looks and sounds nice, there is there is subject to some extremely poor It's also rather short, with a full playthrough That's not inherently a bad thing, but if and completing sidequests, this is not the Your mileage with Phantasy Star IV is almost for early RPG design that has long been left If you have no such patience, Phantasy Star #51: Wrestleball Are you familiar with Wrestleball? Probably not, because it was released as Powerball Are you familiar with Powerball? Probably not, because it wasn't very good. Wrestleball -- which is what we will continue -- is one of many futuristic sports games It seems that video game developers took one "That does look like fun!" Sadly, Wrestleball lacks the inventiveness and the experience we're left with amounts and forth across a small pitch. There's some fun to be had in the two-player any other game on this list #50: Alex Kidd in the Enchanted Castle In some alternate timeline, Alex Kidd remained Thank Christ we don't live there. Alex Kidd was Sega's original substitute of old needles could theoretically be somebody's Though he hung around for six games, he never Which is good, because he deserved neither. Enchanted Castle isn't the best Alex Kidd it might put forth the best argument for why The controls are loose, the level design thoroughly just games of Rock, Paper, Scissors. If only the memory set aside for Alex Kidd Mini could have been used in a better way, #49: Shining Force Shining Force is part of a long-running series That's good news for fans, because it means old thing. Shining Force is a tactical RPG that seems Fire Emblem, but it has very little of that It does attempt to mimic Fire Emblem's named, but it forgot to give most of them personalities, It's not a bad game, but it doesn't do RPG. What's more, its English translation is and entire plot points being left out. In 2004, the game got a much better Western As long as that version exists, there's #48: Virtua Fighter 2 You might hear the name "Virtua Fighter of gaming history!" And you would be correct! But you also wouldn't be thinking of the has never been and will never be important Remember, the big selling point--and by far Fighter series was that it was three-dimensional. The Mega Drive port...wasn't. It's two-dimensional. What? It works, and it's fine, but it isn't Had this exact version of the game been released Street Fighter Clone, nobody would have guessed It's Virtua-ly not worth your time. #47: Wonder Boy in Monster World Known in its native Japan as Wonder Boy V: the game's Western title, which is less It's not, however, the best representation series. That honor would almost certainly go to Wonder got a very impressive hand-drawn remake. Still, Wonder Boy in Monster World is a fun The visuals are appealingly colorful and cartoony, but the game has very little character, and never quite shaves away the repetition of and over again. It's a short game, but it still manages #46: Kid Chameleon If you disregard the existence of most platformers platformers ever made. In this reality, though, it's an easily at a mascot platformer on a system that has You play as Casey, also known as Kid Chameleon masks, just like a real chameleon. The powerups don't make the gameplay much projectiles or allow you to smash through It's a pretty basic game. And while we acknowledge that beauty is in this one butt-ugly game. If you do happen to enjoy Kid Chameleon more deserving of your time, you will get to explore generous... or arguably too much #45: Landstalker Landstalker is an isometric action RPG. It has a pretty nice art style, but beyond to it. Originally released to positive reviews, it Landstalker relies at various points on long, hindered severely by the controls and isometric Failing them may not result in a game over, gets frustrating quickly. The combat is also very simple and often unfair, do, and you aren't nearly nimble enough The Japanese release of the game remains notable those were removed and rewritten for Western la la--of probably the most significant aspect #44: OutRun 2019 The distant year of 2019. Who among us can imagine the wonders in store? Certainly not the developers of this game, be made of glass and stopped there. OutRun 2019 barely even leans into its own The cars don't hover, aliens don't attack, complete failure of imagination. The gameplay is serviceable but far from exciting, they look so similar that there's little In fact, the only truly amusing thing is that and miles per hour as interchangeable. This means that your vehicle's already silly becomes 682 mph in the American version. That's almost 1,100 km/h. Maybe the game is theorizing that in 2019 #43: Puyo Puyo One of the all-time greatest falling block puzzle game?--Puyo Puyo started life as something Technically, the series is a spinoff of Mado RPG dungeon crawlers. Puyo Puyo features characters and other elements be much different from that of its parent Instead of zapping enemies with magic, you're It's a simple concept, but one which proved Line up four or more jelly babies of the same That's it. The real strategy and satisfaction comes from of the little Puyos from the board and send It's a great, addictive puzzler that the At least, not under this name... #42: Dr. Robotnik's Mean Bean Machine "I'd like to play Puyo Puyo, but unless box art, I don't believe I will." That's what we assume Sega and Compile must Mean Bean Machine. The game is, from tip to tail, just a Western the Hedgehog stickers. That doesn't make the game less fun, of as a result of its visual ties to the Sonic It would have been nice, however, to get a on the Mega Drive Mini just so Western gamers We'll take what we can get, but we're of the series is a relatively shameless reskin. #41: Puyo Puyo Tsu Puyo Puyo Tsu--which is a pun, so we can up on the unexpected success of its predecessor but better. When Compile developed the first Puyo Puyo than a simple side project that might bring With the second game, they knew they had a resources and attention to it. This paid off, as Puyo Puyo 2 became the biggest game was ported to as many systems as possible, Saturn, PC, the Mega Drive of course, and was cancelled with the console's mercy killing. We won't be getting this with our Mega Drive is included in the Sega 3D Classics Collection #40: Lord Monarch Lord Monarch is an installment in the long-running--and The closest most Western gamers will have which shares its title with a song by Falivia Lord Monarch is a real-time strategy game mechanics, including alliances that in order party, turning much of the experience into You can also liberate condemned men from the to you for life, which is either the smartest It certainly doesn't look pretty--the Super regard--but a medieval RTS featuring monsters, be a lot of fun. #39: Space Harrier II Space Harrier was a massive arcade hit for to release their Mega Drive, they made sure lineup in both Japan and North America. (It arrived shortly after launch in Europe.) The original game's success is easy to understand. There was little else like it, and its scaling striking works of artist Roger Dean--made The sequel was designed for consoles--specifically that the game wouldn't feel like a downgraded as a home game that could stand on its own Or, you know, hover. Space Harrier II isn't particularly long, easy, and true satisfaction only comes with #38: Monster World IV Monster World IV is a divisive game in the being disappointed by its low difficulty level Whatever your personal feelings, though, it's as prior to this the game received only one Wii Virtual Console. Leaving Wonder Boy behind, this game sees a sword and a chubby little penguin monster She sets off to find and help a number of adventure is a rather shallow and easy one, It's also, it must be said, absolutely adorable. Monster World IV has a fantastic art style, far worse. #37: Thunder Force III The first Thunder Force game, released in shooter that allowed players to steer their By the time of Thunder Force III, however, side-scrolling approach. This makes Thunder Force III feel a lot like...well, It does, however, look fantastic, and it still In scrolling shooters, the experience comes things apart, and Thunder Force III has that That's about all it has, but for games like It also offers some difficulty options, determining--among current weapon or all of your collected weapons It's a small change that has big ramifications, or experts. #36: Mado Monogatari I That is the letter I, to be clear, not the In fact, Mado Monogatari I is the last game It is, however, a remake of Mado Monogatari was only ever released as one package, so the first game, and this remake of the first IT IS EASY TO UNDERSTAND. As you might guess, this game was Japan exclusive. In it, we guide protagonist Arle Nadja from explores dungeons and fights monsters. It's a pretty interesting game that we'd If only Mado Monogatari I got localized years #35: Ghouls 'n Ghosts Ghouls 'n Ghosts is technically the sequel 'n Goblins, but in many ways it's also Arthur--the knight you've seen most often Ghouls 'n Ghosts, which goes a long way more fun. Ghosts 'n Goblins, after all, wasn't just at many points, and relished killing you regularly. By contrast, Ghouls 'n Ghosts...well, nevermind, Only this time, it more often feels like it's right direction. The Mega Drive version of the game might not more than serviceable, still looks great, that legendary graveyard song. #34: Earthworm Jim As it was ported fairly quickly to the SNES Mega Drive title, but its importance to gaming It's one of relatively few overtly "comic" It's a self-lacerating, decidedly zany experience absurdism. But is it any good? Well...kind of. It's certainly a lot of fun, but a number never quite recover, such as the one in which and another that sees you piloting a fragile tunnels. The developers attempted to make as many levels admirable but also meant there was less time Ultimately, Earthworm Jim's most impressive #33: Yu Yu Hakusho Makyo Toitsusen Yu Yu Hakusho Makyo Toitsusen only left surprised we're missing out on this one inclusion. It's a four-player fighting game designed generation proving they could do no wrong. Yes, we are aware of that McDonald's tie-in game We stand by our assessment. It's based on a manga we haven't read, story mode. It's just a chance for you and up to three As it should be! There are even two horizontal planes on which to the combat that is still rare to find in It also contains an admirable attempt at digitized absolutely stellar soundtrack. #32: Tetris Tetris is...look, we don't need to tell Whoever you are, wherever you live, whatever Tetris. It's one of the most famous video games It's also, however, difficult to get excited Strictly speaking, it's a better game than also ubiquitous. It's been released for more systems in more you probably have multiple copies of it already. This particular version of Tetris, though, Its tangled rights history meant that Sega this version of the game, which it had developed It was never properly released until now. That is legitimately cool, but we can't we'll just be playing Tetris yet again. #31: Snow Bros. Sharing a more than a bit of creative DNA Bubble Bobble, Snow Bros. offers very similar Pretty much everything you need to know about seconds of YouTube footage, so we've got Mega Drive version controls well and has an the one category in which this game exceeds to sheer variety alone. Are Western versions of the Mega Drive Mini A bit, but its sheer simplicity means it's That is to say, it may not BOWL YOU OVER. In fact, it may LEAVE YOU COLD. Submit a third pun in the comments, because #30: Puzzle &amp; Action: Tant-R Puzzle &amp; Action: Tant-R is another game that and the release of the Mega Drive Mini isn't That's a shame, because this one looks like Japan has gotten seem to confirm that. You play as detectives hunting down an escaped in mini-games and action sequences. The minigames are selected at random, so each mode to keep things even more chaotic. What's more, the "detective" theme isn't brainpower more than reflexes. This amusing curio would have been a welcome would have earned it some new and appreciative #29: Ecco the Dolphin Your memories of Ecco the Dolphin depend on If you only ever played the first few hours, adventure during which you explore the seas If you finished the game, you remember it goes back in time to smack aliens around. It's one strangest games on the Mega Drive, a must-play. Ecco the Dolphin is an important piece of all that well. Labyrinthine levels,unclear objectives, and the game feel like it can't quite decide Even so, it's a game like very few others, #28: Shining Force II There sure are a lot of tactical RPGs we aren't Shining Force II--the fifth game in the series--is was the second game in the series. Got that? Good. I promise you'll never need to know it again. This time around, the adventure has a greater more than a linear series of battles. It also allows for players to roam more freely better job of making each of the units feel Shining Force II is a more welcoming experience is for the better. But it's still not something we're all #27: Golden Axe Golden Axe exists to answer one simple question: This side-scrolling beat-em-up was an arcade even added content to the experience, such Its inclusion on the Mega Drive Mini is a Drawing from a number of disparate sources--including Barbarian--Golden Axe takes a wealth of great challenging adventure. There are three heroes to choose from, each and it's their job to defeat the Death Adder, It's a welcome inclusion and a firm reminder and console market for years. #26: Beyond Oasis Known in Japan--and on the Japanese Mega of the Light--Beyond Oasis is an action RPG It's similar in many ways to more popular of Mana, and a number of critics feel that As Prince Ali you travel the world, defeating preparation to conquer a looming evil. It's a fairly standard plot, and reviews was a good thing or a bad thing. But whatever you feel about the story, the and large amounts of weapons and spells make #25: Musha Aleste Released in North America as simply "Musha," reviewers, who found it too similar to and shooters on the market. Time has been rather kind to Musha Aleste, reconsidered. It is now frequently ranked among the best It features remarkable scrolling background soundtrack that went through a large number It's impossible not to see the love and Interestingly, the Japanese and North American Among many other narrative differences, the past and the North American version took place Or maybe it was just a massive translation error #24: World of Illusion Starring Mickey Mouse West, Japan, Asia such a massive hit for Disney and Sega, a Almost as inevitable was the fact that a sequel That indeed turned out to be the case, though a fight. This time around, Donald Duck is a main character In one nice tweak, Donald's adventure is the two must find different ways to progress World of Illusion is easier than its predecessor--arguably of charm and imagination that made Castle in its own right, and a fun cartoony platformer to play through it. #23: Rent a Hero Getting versions of Tetris and Darius we were higher on our wishlist for our Western console would have been Rent a Hero, which to this day has never made it out of Japan. It's an action RPG with a strong emphasis We'll...have to take Japan's word for definitely lends itself to a lighthearted In Rent a Hero, a young man orders a pizza armor instead. It costs far more than he was expecting to as a superhero to the townsfolk, demonstrating Rent Boy. The game looks like a lot of fun and has a out of reach. #22: Comix Zone In Comix Zone we take control of Sketch Turner, you learn that he was originally called Joe That's not a joke, either; trust us, we Not only does the game resemble a comic, but into and out of panels, use borders as handholds, illustrated baddies. It's a remarkably stylish game that makes have otherwise been a forgettable beat-em-up era. Part of the reason it's still held in such games have even attempted to emulate its approach. Of course, that's because Sega patented So, thanks for that, Sega. #21: Super Fantasy Zone While Fantasy Zone's imagery and characters to time, it's largely been forgotten. This might be due to the fact that five games period, with very little to differentiate By flooding players this way, Fantasy Zone Super Fantasy Zone is a great opportunity discover it for the first time. It's a scrolling shooter that has you soaring everything that has a face on it. Clear out the level, defeat the boss, and It's a simple experience, but a profoundly The only problem with Fantasy Zone is that them all. But that one game, whichever one it is, is #20: Street Fighter II: Special Champion Edition Included on the Japanese version of the mini this is one of many, many ports of Capcom's This version includes the content added to well as its own balancing tweaks, alternate However, one of the game's selling points release: its support of a special six-button Don't worry; it's still fully playable the six-button option did a lot to help this Just about every iteration of Street Fighter It was a great game then and still is now, and always worth spending some time with. #19: Game no Kanzume Otokuyou When the Mega Drive Mini was announced, all "It had better have Game no Kanzume Otokuyou Or, "Clearly they wouldn't consider releasing Or, "Why don't they just release a standalone remaster of Game no Kanzume Otokuyou?&quot; I'm joking, of course; we had absolutely we're saying it right. Is that actually the word game or does it It turns out, though, to be a genuinely welcome It's a compilation of 12 games from Sega defunct longer than most of us have been alive. From a purely historical perspective, this Games that would otherwise be lost to history What's more, one of them is Flicky, which on to feature in a huge number of Sonic games #18: Road Rash II Motorcycles are fun. Beating up strangers is fun! Combine them and you get Road Rash, a smear-or-be-smeared racing brawler that we're honestly surprised hasn't seen an entry in almost 20 years. The original game, also on the Mega Drive, leaving the flesh of your opponents up and Road Rash II took almost everything from that of locations including Hawaii, Arizona, and New weapons, more bikes, and various quality-of-life by far the superior choice for inclusion on The best part, though? Road Rash II's simultaneous two-player mode. The first game had you taking turns, something or brawling, let alone both at the same time. #17: The Hybrid Front The Hybrid Front is an interesting futuristic to play. It takes place on a version of Earth in a from climate change. But don't worry, there are fictional things For instance, a powerful group of corporate the Pan-Earth Treaty Organization, who really or two without global thermonuclear conflict. Those hippies. The game unfolds with a series of 26 battles capable of fighting on land, in the sea, in It looks like a game that rewards careful we won't get the play it ourselves in the UK. #16: Alisia Dragoon One of the best platformers on the Mega Drive, on the Mini. As the daughter of a sorcerer, Alisia's keep a close eye on her magic meter. If it runs out, she'll be temporarily defenseless. This is a bad thing, because Alisia begins Exercising a high degree of caution both in Alisia also has a roster of monster pets that more variety to the combat. Lovingly drawn and animated by professionals Ghibli fame, Alisia Dragoon takes one of gaming's of art. Even better: The soundtrack manages to exceed #15: Castle of Illusion Starring Mickey Mouse When it comes to licensed games, Disney has Whatever system you owned growing up, the was a cherished part of your library. And if Castle of Illusion was that game for of the bunch. This is a gorgeously animated outing for Mickey top. Critics at the time gushed about its graphics, done little to dull our impressions of any It was surprising to learn that any Disney Mini, which makes us retroactively more disappointed one. Can we have a rereleased NES Classic Edition ...please? #14: Contra: Hard Corps No series is more synonymous with the run-and-gun From the very beginning, it's been a high-octane, to master, but is even harder to put down. Though it isn't a numbered sequel, Contra: III, and gives players a number of pretty characters who have unique abilities and collect The controls are tight and the gameplay remarkably The soundtrack absolutely rises to the occasion, so pleasing to the eye. It's about as close to perfection as the for the Nintendo DS might just edge it out Either way, Contra: Hard Corps is a perfect #13: Langrisser II Langrisser is a series that hasn't seen it's one that does have a devoted following Langrisser II is a tactical RPG with branching you decide to align yourself with. You can even change sides at various points, path based on one early decision. That's some pretty impressive flexibility By all accounts, Langrisser II was one of and its massive amount of player characters, on more than just which way the tide turns getting with our Western Mini. #12: Streets of Rage 2 The Streets of Rage series didn't last long. Between 1991 and 1994 there were three releases. Between 1994 and...well, now...there have Hopefully the worldwide inclusion of Streets of fans who can be equally disappointed the Streets of Rage 2--known as Bare Knuckle in the trilogy. It updates and refines the satisfying gameplay features. The characters here get their own unique special and new weapons have been added, all of which The soundtrack is also one of the best in you aren't a fan of beat-em-ups, Streets #11: Strider Strider is just one of many classic series the time of day to anymore. That loss is ours, because Strider--in both port--is fantastic. It's a tough-as-nails platformer, with protagonist can dish out excessive punishment, but he option. The Mega Drive version, to be honest, looks is saying a lot--and nearly all of the game's Strider plays just as well here as it did through treacherous stages and waves of enemies We're glad to have it on our Mega Drive In fact, we think the system would feel just #10: Dynamite Headdy One of several truly great Treasure games Headdy is a colorful, inventive, giddy joy. It isn't often mentioned in the same breath but it probably should be. The visual design of the game is absolutely Events play out as a kind of insane stage representing your health. The sprites are large and lovely, and so much it's impressive the Mega Drive was able Though it's been included in a few collections seems to get the attention it deserves, and #9: Darius Whatever your personal feelings about the will have somebody out there with fond memories Except for Darius, and if anyone tells you are a filthy liar. See, this is the first time that classic arcade Does the inclusion of a brand-new release console? Well, yes. But it's also pretty cool, as it's like And, well, Darius is a lot of fun for what While it isn't as well-remembered as its it's every bit as challenging, addictive, #8: Dyna Brothers 2 Dyna Brothers 2 is a strategy game with dinosaurs. I repeat, Dyna Brothers 2 is a strategy game The first Dyna Brothers was also a strategy a strategy game with more dinosaurs, making Why these games have never gotten Western We love moving little tanks and knights and Think how much more we would love moving dinosaurs This is precisely what we were doing with and sixteen, for crying out loud! Did you...did you not play with dinosaurs Admit it, even if the game were terrible, I know I would have. It's a bloody strategy game with dinosaurs. #7: Sonic the Hedgehog Nowadays, a Sonic game is considered a success or burn your house down when you play it, to be reckoned with. Sonic the Hedgehog was Sega's first true Granted, the game isn't as fast-paced as Sonic's physics definitely take some getting visuals still hold up today. Of the original trilogy, it's safe to say There are a number of irritating sequences, Zone, and Sega was still finding its footing But this absolutely deserves its place on Not that there was any chance Sega would have Except, for some inexplicable reason, in Japan. Weird. #6: Mega Man: The Wily Wars The rarity of Mega Man: The Wily Wars depends In Japan and Europe, we got a nice, physical In North America, however, it was only available software service that even at the time was The Wily Wars is an enhanced collection of with new spritework, remixed soundtracks, Purists will almost certainly prefer the originals, of love and care went into this collection, What's more, completing the three games levels, and you get to choose any of the weapons take with you. #5: Shinobi III: Return of the Ninja Master If we could only get one Shinobi game, we Shinobi III: Return of the Ninja Master is It has a stellar soundtrack, precise controls, It's also quite varied in what it offers--one a common ninja pastime that is so rarely reflected Shinobi III is about more than cutting bad assured, you will cut plenty of bad people This time around our hero has more moves than helping every encounter feel unique. Reviewers at the time--and today--seem to too difficult and too easy, but they're is fantastic and absolutely worth your time. #4: Castlevania: Bloodlines The recent release of the Castlevania Anniversary Bloodlines -- known in Japan as Vampire Killer one of the best in the series. The gameplay is similar to that of the first and less dynamic than the revelatory Super fantastic. It also offers up one heck of a challenge, entire series. Players choose between Eric Lecardeand John A number of critics have pointed out that appears in Bram Stoker's original Dracula, games to that of that book. However, we have it on good authority that Dracula, so that connection probably shouldn't #3: Alien Soldier I know we really shouldn't complain, as classics developed by Treasure on our Mega to the Asian version is downright depressing. One of the very best run-and-gun titles released rarity for Western players; the original release Channel. Alien Soldier's emphasis on smooth movement, rather than simply avoid enemy attacks makes for those who like their games to be tough The adventure unfolds over 25 stages and 31 Treasure actually intended to develop 100 a number of other concepts--were sadly lost Alien Soldier remains an overlooked masterpiece, #2: Sonic the Hedgehog 2 Which is better? Sonic 2 or Sonic 3 and/or Knuckles? The debate continues, but for the purposes the answer, because only one of them is on Sorry, Knuckle-heads. Sonic 2 is--let's not mince words here--a It improves on its celebrated predecessor The level design is better. The bonus stages are better. Even that game's stellar soundtrack is eclipsed Sega struck gold with the first Sonic game, fail. The fact that Sonic 2 instead left that game The absence of Sonic 3 is disappointing, but with than Sonic 2. Such as...well, everything on this list, apart #1: Gunstar Heroes It should come as no surprise that one of one of the best games ever made--would also Gunstar Heroes is Treasure's greatest achievement, back to. Not only does the game look fantastic, but during boss fights--are some of the most It's a run-and-gun brawler with remarkable results. Additionally, the stages are unique and memorable, mine-cart segment and one stage in which you While Gunstar Heroes did not sell well initially, critics and fans raved about it, and it's It has also asserted itself, of course, as And there you have it. Every game on every iteration of the Mega What did we get terribly, inexcusably wrong? What games would constitute your dream lineup? Are you the one person on Earth who genuinely Let us know in the comments. Also, if you have suggestions for other "Every us know. We are always happy to tell you which opinions You can also follow us on Twitter here, and, if you want to support the things you enjoy check out our rewards on Patreon. I'm Peter from TripleJump, and thanks for