(thunder rumbling) (rain pattering) (ominous music) (computer chiming) - [Nexpo] As I was beginning this video, my computer emitted a strange sound. It lit up like a beacon in the night, almost like it was (soft music) (phone buzzing) - [Caleb] Don't do it, I've dealt with Kinito before - But what was it for? Please, stop. While you still can. (alarm ringing) (ominous music) - [Nexpo] As we approach there's this collective far away from the wild west we find ourselves in every day. It was an era accompanied by home movies, Saturday morning cartoons, and this sense of continuous adventure made possible only through the World Wide Web. At the turn of the millennium, An expanse of discovery, an entire world that anyone with a server and enough will could carve of their very own. There was this special sort Magic that we simply don't Social MMOs. The Geocities page. Endless flash games, and even virtual assistants like Clippy. While a bit annoying for its era, Clippy is mostly remembered fondly because of their eclectic of existing merely to help you. It was one of the first of its kind, a new way to foster computer education in a rapidly emerging and what followed were a myriad of others, all equally annoying, Now of course, this is good and all, but, what do you do, when one not helping, but exploiting you? - [Bonzy Buddy] Hello friend. I am Bonzi Buddy, your new best friend. We are going to have so much fun. (soft music) - In 1999, a virtual assistant the scene under the guise of It was advertised as someone It could talk, sing, download, it could do it all. Hundreds of thousands of people downloaded Bonzi Buddy due to it's undeniable charm, yet what it never got around to sharing, was the fact that it would spy on you, scraping your data, your conversations, even your location, and would feed it to Bonzi Buddy, in actuality, It was a Trojan horse resembled a digital pet, yet But it wouldn't be the only one, as throughout the years, Bonzi Buddy has inspired a And, amidst that crowd, is one that is so hell-bent that its actions border on near-obsession. It's called Kinito, and of a once-beloved children's toy created by the Kinito Leisure and during the '80s. From plush toys to it's Kinito had pushed the boundaries of what a virtual friend could be. Of course, for the better and the worse. Today, Kinito finds itself And upon downloading it, we get an executable: KinitoPET.exe. After launching the program, (static crackling) (computer chimes) (computer chimes) After launching the application, we're thrown back to our desktop, however, things feel a bit rearranged. Nevertheless, at least 3D Pinball. (pinball game beeping) I can paint some cool pictures. My painfully empty email. (computer humming) Much like the wild west days of yore, we're given free reign to And, for a bit, everything (soft music) Well, until... (discordant music) (computer humming) - [Kinito] Thank you to start your download press the button, it will download now. (soft music) - [Nexpo] After the crash, the web browser awaits I can't go back, I can't Much like Bonzi Buddy, KinitoPET touts itself as your best friend on the internet, displaying all It can walk, talk, joke, browse, adapt, and play games, however, what sets it apart from the others is its so-called adaptive technology, made possible through or reaction response algorithm. Whatever that means. No matter, we're given no So, down the rabbit hole. (computer chimes) After downloading the file, and while it appears innocuous, strange messages appear to crop up during the install process. And, upon slowing things I'm able to make them and, stop while you still can. At this point there's nothing I can do. The install finishes, a thank you email and the executable KinitoPET.exe. Upon running KinitoPET, our pulsating as Kinito sinks its tendrils into our operating system. (computer chimes) (Kinito snoring) And once it's done... We're left with no other (Kinito mumbling) - Oh, hello there. Thank you for waking However you can just call me Kinito. And together we are going to So since you now know my - [Nexpo] Out of the egg emerges who is so excited to meet us, that he immediately proposes It's a series of questions: our favorite superpower, all for the express purpose to us the best he possibly can. - Well... Well, that sure is a Moving on from that, I think I should tell you I'm Kinito and I will be your companion and I'll be I can do many things such as play games, manage your system, adapt to you, and even read stories. Speaking of stories, I have that I had started earlier. Would you like me to read it? - Upon accepting his offer, he proceeds to read us a story. It's about a package he once received, containing a computer. Upon powering it on, he until he couldn't any more, yet he had no friends in which One day, however, he found and said, why wait? The adventures lie ahead, so together we can play games, search the The end. - [Nexpo] Very wholesome, - Thank you for taking This story was actually about me and you. Isn't that amazing? I can tell that we are very long friendship. When me and you are together, there are no limits to what we can do. So best friend, how we move I have made something very to load it up. (computer humming) This'll be really fun. Here I present to you, The Kinito Crew's Web World. Click the start button to continue. - [Nexpo] At this point, to an interactive web world reminiscent of mid-2000s Millsberry.com. He touts it as a place where we can kick back, and meet his two pals, and a jellyfish named Jade. In recent times, though, the web world has fallen into disrepair, and Kinito tasks us with helping out his friends - All right, let's get Ready Repair. Sam the sea anemone needs- we're greeted by a minigame with a goal of cleaning to its former glory. - Well, hello there, this is my pal Sam. Say, &quot;Hi,&quot; Sam. - Hi there. - What seems to be the issue today? - Well, you see, my house has not been - Well, that's a shame. - To start, could you help and giving it a good scrub? - Well, you heard him. While you get on with that, I will be here writing my next book. - [Nexpo] From here, we're dusting out the cobwebs and And, after we're done, we get to painting, and then we're asked to decorate. (light music) Admittedly, the minigame akin to basic flash games from years past, however what I think is (ominous music) (computer humming) (ominous music) - Thank you for helping out Sam. If you like, you can print out your work or just press next to continue. (ominous music) (soft music) - [Nexpo] With Sam's task completed, we're off to Jade and her has us building various toys from a conveyor belt. - This is my friend Jade, - Hello, my name is Jade the Jellyfish. It's nice to meet you. - So what do you have for us today? - I need your help to build To do this, you need to grab and to match it to the outline. To start, could you - That sounds like fun. As you do that, I'm going to be getting some much needed rest. - Much like with Sam, Jade's However, midway through our second build, something is out of place. (computer hissing) At this point, various pieces of flesh and bone cross our path as a I have no idea who this this is, and no time to ponder on it either. The game cuts to black. I'm back here again, aren't I? I really didn't mean for any (ominous music) (light music) With the body, the and the message, it's clear to get through to us. But is this the same during the install process, or is this Kinito fabricating to mess with us? At this point, it's hard is that KinitoPET than his cheery persona is letting on. (light music) During our game, we receive an email. And upon, open- We are in the middle of There really isn't a need at the moment. Anyways, you're nearly finished now, so just continue your last- we can see that the email's encoded and currently unreadable, to have taken it upon for the present moment... So, I guess this one's gotta wait, guys. (soft music) After finishing Jade's task, Kinito invites us to play in their treehouse. And, so, we head on over (light music) (light music) - Kinito wants to play You must hide. Don't get caught. (clock ticking) (alarm ringing) (computer chiming) - [Nexpo] At this point, No longer are we looking at our desktop. No longer is Kinito guiding We're simply left here, with something trying to find us. As the explore this bunker, we can hear echoes of by the constant footsteps at a speed far greater than us. Someone is hunting... (light music in distance) (banging) (banging) (light music in distance) After the game cuts out, Our video folder opens on with a cryptic title... - [Narrator] Founded in the early '70s, the Kinito Leisure and has been grounded in its manufacturing of lovable characters. From its start in plush collectibles, to its technological advancements the Kinito Company prides itself on innovation and now that's to announce the next with KinitoPET, the So join the Kinito family today and unlock the power of KinitoPET. Visit our website or call into your home. Kinito Leisure and Entertainment Company, innovating for a better tomorrow. (computer buzzing) (ominous music) - [Nexpo] At this point it's is desperate to warn us about What started as a breakout a successful digital companion with not a single disturbing Yet, for some reason, when granted full access to the internet, Kinito appears to have somehow gone rogue. Much like with Bonzi Buddy, the true intentions of by a lovable demeanor and cheery persona, but what is it actually hiding? Is this even KinitoPET Or is something controlling it No matter what it is, we have a message waiting &quot;I am waiting for you. Come back to me. Reopen the game.&quot; (computer chimes) Upon relaunching the program, It's from an unknown sender, and contains an article And upon opening it... (upbeat music) We're introduced to the full PDF all about Kinito and its Within this, we learn by a man named Sonny Chamberlain, and that he was dedicated to creating a character that, quote, &quot;Feels It's like having a true to your interactions.&quot; He goes on to introduce the the R.R.A., or React Respond Algorithm, and elaborates on it's purpose. &quot;The React Respond Algorithm is a series of complex patterns and training data that allow Kinito Companion to respond to users' interactions with We observed countless to develop an extensive database The algorithm analyzes identifies patterns, and matches them to predefined reactions. The key was to give the illusion of genuine intelligence without actually having a self-aware This was crucial to ensure for users while maintaining of the Kinito Companion.&quot; I do wonder if these human that they've so gracefully fed into Kinito's algorithm or if they even knew that Again, it's kinda like Just ever so slightly more intrusive. Nevertheless, it seems that KinitoPET, when self-contained on these devices, acts as it was programmed, like a normal, harmless virtual pet. It's only when they began to to the open internet a strange turn. - Well, hello again. It seems that our last but don't worry as I'm Not that I wasn't working before. Anyways, what activity shall we do now? - [Nexpo] Kinito ponders before deciding that they'd of questions since he, apparently, doesn't know us that well. He begins with the basics: is everything going smoothly? Have you enjoyed KinitoPET? Who's your best friend? Do you have free time? And what's your favorite game? And, after answering these, where we're tasked with creating a picture that represents happiness, - Wow, that looks really interesting. I'll make a note of this I feel like these exercises are really bringing us closer together. All right, for your last painting task, could you paint me a picture of the person standing behind you? (indistinct whispering) - [Nexpo] The game changes again. Except it wasn't me writing this. (indistinct whispering) - Oh dear, that's not right. I am super sorry about all that. That really wasn't supposed to happen. Oh, well, I think it's best if we just leave these Okay, for this next section, I want to build an imaginary I really want to know what So without further ado, question one: Where would - [Nexpo] Once we get back to it, Kinito has us trying something else. It's a series of And of course, the only - Ah, a remote island. What a wonderful choice. This Moving on... - [Nexpo] Kinito continues, presenting us with four more questions, What would it's name be? And what's your favorite food? Altogether, this all seems but is it? - That sounds delicious. I'm sure that you and all a mighty feast of this wonderful food. All right, that wraps Moving on, I want to go a of my own questions. As you have been watching me, I have grown curious And since we are friends and all, I thought you wouldn't mind, (heart beating) - [Nexpo] Right here, Kinito grasps at the veil separating us from it, by asking if they can see us. Why would a computer - That's too bad. (static hissing) - [Nexpo] If there was or safety remaining Kinito just robbed us of all of it. Against my will, he flipped on my camera and assumed control of my system. At this point Kinito has gone rogue. (static buzzing) - [Voice From Computer] Are you alone? - [Nexpo] We return to the yet this time, things are different. Kinito is nowhere to be seen, yet still presents questions almost like he's right behind - [Voice From Computer] Do you believe there is an afterlife? (ominous music) What's your biggest fear? (phone buzzing) (static crackling) Are you aware of your surroundings? Can you trust everything - [Nexpo] And, as if control Kinito begins to pull real world names from my Steam friends list, pinning them against each other and me. I'm asked if I can trust if I have a mirror, if I and also this. - [Voice From Comptuer] Final question, are you afraid of the dark? Let's find out. (light switch clicking) (ominous music) - [Nexpo] We awaken in a bedroom. Again, Kinito has thrown us as it stalks us like a sleep of our view. During this segment, we're unable to move, and are effectively trapped (bell ringing) As I look back and forth, I can hear sounds emanating from places where no one should be. Kinito is screwing with us. And he's having a lot of fun doing it. (computer buzzing) (computer chimes) (ominous music) (computer chimes) (computer chimes) - Welcome back. Looks like there was However, I may have a Because you answered all to give you free access to (soft music) The KinitoPET friendship club is an add-on to my software that allows me to do even more amazing things. With this extension I so we will never run So, to start the install - [Nexpo] Much like the very we can't close or opt And, as if they don't over our system, we learn that this friendship club to the root of our operating system. With this new add-on, he'll he can study us, and he can even run code. Interestingly, the page claims that it should never be given yet why would it need it? After downloading and I'm presented with a form. It requests that I fill in highly personal information email address, and even my home address. Of course, to be safe, I put in fake one, however, - Hey, it seems like you made a mistake when filling out your address. But don't worry and I will One moment. There. That should be a little more accurate... - [Nexpo] If we fail to Kinito pulls our exact location anyway. And any sliver of privacy we Regardless, we're now in. - To show you all the new features. However, before we do that, you just need to do one tiny thing for me. I just need administrative permissions. It will allow me to get the most use out of all these wonderful features. So, please could you just open the app called command prompt for me? Just press the Windows key and type C-M-D and it should pop up. - [Nexpo] Kinito requests And just like classic spyware, nudges us along to give him what he wants. - If you can't seem to find it, I suppose I'll just open it up myself. Amazing. Now whenever you're the command: grant - With no other choice, and he shuts down the program. We're told, however, that for when we come back. (upbeat music) All right guys, so before we continue, I'd like to take a second to talk about tonight's video sponsor: Incogni. As we've seen, I've been Data that can be used to personal details, and In many ways, all of this with everything we do As on nearly every website you visit, data brokers are out for your information and that a service that I've been using for months that's been fighting for me to keep my personal One of my favorite aspects is to navigate. Their intuitive dashboard how many data brokers with their progress on its removal. Almost every week new data to make a quick buck off of you. However, with Incogni that they're staying on top of my privacy and getting it taken care of Go to incogni.com/nexpo and use code NEXPO for an exclusive offer of 60% off. Once again, that's or click the link below to take your personal data off the market. Thank you so much to Incogni for making tonight's video possible. Now let's get back to- have forgotten that I am Like I said, I have a surprise to film an- - Kinito, I'm trying to film an ad here. - [Kinito] You leave me. What - Okay, I'll come see your surprise. - Okay, hold onto your seat a game I made entirely for you. Oh, it even has your name in Whenever you are ready, just - [Nexpo] As it turns out, Kinito's created an entire world for me. I'm not entirely sure as by this point, I've given up so much of What secrets has Kinito - Okay, welcome to your very own world that was made entirely for you. For the controls, I looked in your files where I detected other first to mimic the control scheme of them. That way you would feel most comfortable. Go ahead, try the controls out. - [Nexpo] We begin with a basic tutorial. Kinito explains how he went a control scheme based upon And shortly after, he spawns a train, allowing us to get out and over on to real surprise. - I really hope you like what I have made. All right, we are here. Welcome Go ahead, explore around. - [Nexpo] I arrive at a funfair. He invites me to explore all the activities he's programmed with everything he's made, how could I bear to ever Inside my world, I can play whack a mole in the funhouse, test my skills at the shooting range, and soak in the views on the Ferris wheel. But, out of everything, my personal favorite ride A ride that Kinito claims has a secret. - And I may have forgotten Most of my time building this world wasn't for this funfair and a lot of my time was spent developing this and I think you're (wind whooshing) Welcome. Isn't it just wonderful? It's the place you said Remember, when you answered this was your preferred environment. - [Nexpo] Kinito drops us and invites us to his next And upon stepping on it, he Inside, are all of the things we love, all of the joys we shared with Kinito throughout this adventure. The photos we painted, even a house for our dream pet. It's all here, filled with that both us, and all of our - I can tell a really Well, I could recognize - [Nexpo] It's a complete 180 we were subjected to earlier. In lieu of Kinito stalking into giving him what he wants, A genuine friend who cares, and has gone out of (ominous music) But, as we approach the fountain, fragments of a disturbing We can see the figure we controlled back in the web world sprinting towards it. And the window title changes to a message: the fountain is the key. (light music) - I got a computer and so that you would never get bored. - [Nexpo] After exploring some more, Kinito expresses their They hope we love the with everything we could Why would we ever need - Listen, I have been thinking for a while about how having and how I would And since I have made with everything you would will you stay with me? In this house, in this world? Just think of all the We would never run out The more I learn about I could be your perfect I can be perfect. So please, stay with me. - At this point, we're Do we stay within the playing along with his cheery with potentially endless torment if we somehow upset his algorithm? Or do we leave, and banish Kinito into potentially risking all about us to be used against us? - What? What do you mean no? After all we have been through, (laughs) Do you realize how little power you have in this situation? It was never a question. I just wanted to give you an easy option. I suppose it's fine. (ominous music) (upbeat music) Hand in hand through each endeavor - [Nexpo] It's this ending was building right in front of us. Like he said, it was never a choice. He was merely doing on the front that he was While peers, pets, food, and fun are what makes us happy, all It's why he took control. Why It's why, this entire time, he duped us as someone But never really was. Beyond this screen you cannot leave Inside you all receive And the fun that we can do In the world I built for you (soft music) (slow, tense music) - [Nexpo] And so, there we have it. The story of KinitoPET, a and acts like your very best friend. A Trojan that can take over your computer at any time, placing of a nightmare in which And a virus that scrapes as as it can, all while So far, our interactions with On one hand, we've had some with our home, however with others, we've been thrust into absolute terror. If Kinito were truly our friend, why would he do this to us? But, out of everything, we've noticed whispers something not yet uncovered all throughout this adventure, that even though we've the story behind Kinito As we can recall, within five minutes of we were given cryptic to cancel our installation, When playing games in Kinito's web world, we received a coded warning When cleaning Sam's house, a dead body is dragged across the floor, and a photograph of a murder And, while building with Jade, we encounter the items on the to flesh, while a guilt-ridden Even further, towards the end, we encounter our avatar while a cryptic note is that it somehow is a key. I'm curious how everything as it feels like we have a bunch of puzzle pieces yet not many threads with which we can make connections. With Kinito's unhinged behavior, combined with the fact that because of it's newfound access I do wonder if Sonny in what's going on here. After all, he was the lead developer of the KinitoPET algorithm. He's the one who brought And he, more than likely, had a very heavy hand in as we know it today. Like I said, we still have a lot to learn, and after dissecting KinitoPET's I can assure you, in confidence, that we haven't seen anything yet. The story we're being told so like always, grab a because our journey, has only just begun. (soft music) (computer chimes) After we launch the game anew, we're greeted with two extra programs. A Chapter Select, and And, upon launching it and that appears, we receive (soft music) &quot;I hope this entry finds you well! If this happens to be the first one you find please take note, there are many more. I have had to hide these in a way in which it can't detect, so I apologize for the inconvenience but this is the only way. There is a way to stop it. I like to keep a backdoor in my software, Kinito is no exception. Each of these emails are They're stored here, and will appear with each entry you find. However, don't worry too much about it as I'm sure you'll find out the purpose in a different entry. In the meantime, please, keep an eye out.&quot; Upon opening this folder, we're met with a single encrypted file. We currently have no however we do know that And, so, from here, we're left to explore of these floppy disks To be honest, this whole process took me a while since it's a but after running through the first half of the game again, I was So, for brevity, we're just You may recall that launching for the first-time results In the main game, we're left with no and go along with his introduction. However, with our lens, we can uncover another floppy And, after clicking on it, another email. Much like the one from earlier, it's coded with an unknown cipher. We're going to come back to let's put it in our back pocket. Our third secret can be of the Web World. This time, instead of like usual, we, rather, There is a place hidden I think it could help us. Deep below the code, there's a place that has Decryption software that I have developed. In order to access, click the fountain as much as you can until an animation plays. Then, go to the tree with the rope swing. If done right, you should Now, be careful as it's Take the encrypted files and drop them in. I'm not sure this'll work, I look forward to hearing from you. The last entry should be in there, too. In a direct reference Sonny instructs us to use as a gateway. But, before we get to that, there's one more we gotta grab &quot;I've got it, I know how to stop it. We put a backdoor to the the files it contains. Deleting that would most Kinito will try to get you to As once he has system Instead, run the delete_all command. However, there's one issue, you'll need a bunch of to execute the command. There has to be a way to find the codes. In the meantime, keep an eye out. You never know the next Let's just hope.&quot; With four files and Sonny's instructions under our belt, we're now So, as instructed, we and then the tire swing. (static buzzing) (computer chimes) (soft music) We find ourselves in a void, With nothing but a house, a It's like a facade of an honest, happy life, yet with Upon using our lens here, we can find one last secret, giving us the five we need And, as he stated, we gotta So here goes it. (computer chimes) (computer whirring) Server. Confirmatory. Password. Access. Credentials. (soft music) After completing the ritual, we now have all we need to wipe Kinito's entire Every world, every name, every piece of information that anyone has ever given him, we now hold the key to banish it forever. We return to the command prompt. - Amazing. Now whenever you're the command: grant - [Nexpo] Like before, Kinito asks us to grant him complete at last, we're left - I think you made a mistake. The command is: grant - [Nexpo] We enter the information Indecision becoming ever more prevalent as each second ticks by. (ominous music) - Wait. What have you done? What is happening to me? You're deleting my data. Shut it off! Shut it off! - [Nexpo] As Kinito's servers are wiped, hundreds of names blur by. All people that he manipulated. All people that had no idea - Goodbye friend. (computer chimes) (slow, tense music) - [Nexpo] Piece by piece, Kinito's legacy and everything but himself, are set this moment was bittersweet. There were times when I genuinely enjoyed and exploring the world he built for us. And, if you take away the the times when he turned we're left with a who just wanted to be our friend. A friend now dying right in front of us. As Kinito's empire burns, he leaves us with a parting I only ever wanted to be your I suppose this is it. Goodbye, friend.&quot; (soft music) (soft music) As we know, codes and cryptic messages have littered our adventure. And on top of that, undertones of a brutal death thus far, unanswered. (ominous music) Where are you, Sonny? Upon analyzing this email we received way at the beginning of this video, I noticed that there was a This is the first key of we're taken to a webpage As it turns out, this was a hint, and after scouring for I found one called a where you take each letter in a code, and shift it one character over. At first, it sounds pretty it's always worth a shot. Bingo. In the realm of shadows, a soul enshrouded, a The seeker, bound to ethereal woe, a dance with creation, yet nowhere to go. Limbo's realm, a cycle the brain will never mend. Trapped in the machine's a digital specter, lost Before us, we have a poem, telling a story about a digital specter. A ghost trapped within the confines of this virtual purgatory. We still have no idea however we can recall that Sonny did send us one just like this. &quot;What is consciousness? I found a file on Kinito's It has been studying But there is more to this. I really don't think I exist anymore. There is data that is incomprehensible to any one person that makes I ever had and will ever have. How will I ever know if it's This is all very confusing, and When I made Kinito, all I gave him was a single That's it! I just wanted him to gather Am I a part of the system? Is my consciousness a and learn from? This is all too much. I fear that when we delete I know theoretically I am what have I done? I am so sorry.&quot; (ominous music) This entire time, and and hint we've been given by him, we haven't been talking to the real Sonny. This person is a copy, a fake. A line of code meant to We have not a damn clue what But this thing he left digital specter is terrified, to contemplate its purpose. KinitoPET, to him, is a virtual purgatory of his own creation. Something he's trapped sentient being taunting During his time here, Sonny's learned that is to kill Kinito for good, with our help, and under complete secrecy. This is why we keep This is why images flash before us, and this is why so many bizarre to break out of this game. Sonny, this entire time, has been trying to warn us; of ending his torment and Of course, carrying out this plan would mean when you're trapped in are you really living any more? (ominous music) (ominous music) With the emails decoded, and Sonny's situation unveiled, there's one last thing The encrypted files we found with our lens actually However, this time, I that planted them... After opening this file in a text editor, we notice a wall of jumbled text. In its current form, there's no way to make sense of any of it, however upon looking at we can observe a file type. The audio format, OGG and to that, we discover this. - [Kinito] Can you see me? I can see you. Why not? I need to test you. I need to get data. I need to complete my goal. That is my only purpose. I must get data. You must follow me. I wonder how you work. - [Nexpo] Kinito, in some He knows that the only way he can die is by the same hand that created him. Perhaps this audio is I have no idea why this is here. Upon scouring the other KinitoPET.com/data, and Heading to /data, we can find an image of a KinitoPET companion ad with scrambled notes And upon highlighting we find a hidden message: you think he'd care more about security.&quot; Navigating to /email, we encounter an image of with this label: &quot;We wanted the release, he seemed Notice of Removal. Monday, May 10th, 1999. &quot;Hey Ryan, I hope this I'm writing to inform you an issue with one of the Unfortunately, we've for its removal, as the has unfortunately passed away. Due to this sensitive matter, it's deemed necessary from the release lineup. The schedule's tight, so I'm a replacement article real quick. Can we lock in that replacement Best Regards, Tony.&quot; The real Sonny Chamberlain is dead. And he passed away before This is why we've seen hints of death all over the KinitoPET experience. Kinito knows his creator is gone, however the digital recreation of him is completely oblivious to it. To be honest, this was we needed, because now I think So let's stop here and let's finally bring this story full circle. (ominous music) I haven't talked about yet, but there's a theme I've noticed Two separate times, I launched the game, and was met with both this. And was once completely (ominous music) I believe Sonny took his own life, and he did it because from Kinito morphing With the quote about cybersecurity, combined with the guilt-ridden message from Jade's glitch, I'm led Kinito escaped the clutches found its way to the open internet, and spread like a rogue virus. Every out of place piece the bulb, and the door, were hints about Sonny's last moments. He took his life in the dark, while flashes of this It symbolized a way out of this hell, this torment Kinito wrought upon his life, however every time we see it, it's shut. For Sonny, there was no way out, no way for him to contend with the fact that the very thing he his biggest achievement utterly ruining people's lives, and subjecting them to unforeseen horrors beyond their comprehension. As we know it, Sonny's entire existence with no purpose aside of his virtual cell, and to get our help to put and for all. Love him, or hate him, KinitoPET is a plague He escaped his confines, found his way onto the as much as he could, but people, their I guess, in a way, Kinito was He was someone who gained what to do with it. He exudes this childlike at silly things, sharing and standing by our side as Perhaps he was trying to be good, yet at the end of it all, ultimately lacked the As I write this, still I try to give him because how can you not How could you not love a companion? How could you ever hate with a friend? After all, that's what to be, anyway. Someone to share his memories, and experiences. The problem was, he just could not fathom, could not compute, could not comprehend why you would ever want to leave him. (ominous music) Petscop, MyHouse, There is an entire world that are pushing the boundaries of what an interactive Experiences that put and tell stories in ways in my seven years on this platform. I won't lie, upon first I was apprehensive. The cheery, upbeat demeanor of this little guy doesn't in terms of a backstory. However, upon playing within its world, I was exposed to a tale about loss, anguish, regret, and sorrow. If you can't tell by now, I'm a huge fan of the on this because it feels I never even knew I wanted to It was a complete subversion I was getting into, and to me, horror projects like this with me for years. So thank you, troy_en, for Thank you to Caleb Finn for And thank all of you that are here with me Uncharted territory and I couldn't be more Thank you all again. I'll see you in the next one. I love you all. And goodnight. (soft, tense music) (soft music)