- Good morning, guys, in downtown Burlington, Vermont, a small city of roughly 45,000 people, but the biggest city in the state that has undergone quite a And this one hits a bit close to home because I was born here and I grew up 45 minutes and I have great memories of this place. And from my understanding, it's not really like what it was downtown. So let's go down there, get a better understanding Let's do this. (relaxed music) Growing up here, if you wanted any urban environment in the state, basically, it was here. And now for anyone from a big city, you're like, okay, that's a small town. But, yeah, it's all perspective. It was always the place of social activity and excitement and concerts and events. And here's the bike shop and the owner Spike brought and got me into bike racing, and that's really what got me I saw all of these other but it was all because of Spike. Well, and my mom too and others, but Spike had a big role in my life. He's since passed, but we I think it still goes on, Burlington Crit. (bells ringing) Church Street, all Vermonters This is the place for shopping and being around people and Great memories here, walking down this street and the snow falling and So we're just gonna get into it. First impressions, doesn't look so bad, but looks can be deceiving. And what is it like a A tourist like me - This video is sponsored by Ground News. Quite often, it's not the it's the story not being told in the news that's interesting. It seems like every news in pushing us into an There is a solution an app and website that including local and on the ground sources so we can easily compare coverage. The more I use Ground News, the more I love what they're doing. Here's an example. A bill was presented recently to cut federal aid for NGOs More than 10 articles covered it, but less than 15% are from the left, making this story a blind Another example is, &quot;Retired New Jersey State Police trooper who stormed Capitol is This received no coverage from the right, making it a blind spot for those readers. And this is why so many of us are operating in different And Ground News has a that is surfacing these types of stories. Another feature I love which allows me to see who Media has historically been persuading society through information. And here you can tap of just follow the money. Ground News is subscriber funded and therefore free of business interests. Go to ground news.com/peter to check it out and save 40% for unlimited access. Supporting my sponsors supports my work, so please make sure you use my link so they know that I sent you. - Your friend said, isn't - Yeah. - What did she say? What? - Homeport hate homeless people? And I was like, no. - I don't think so. - That's on the record, you Is that what you're saying? Or humans all together? - Well, apparently, I It depends whether you believe - Okay, so that's what when you wrote a letter the reverb was- - The reverb was these businesses wanna criminalize homelessness. - [Peter] Okay, and what - Some meaningful Not, in fact, imprisonment, but you know, maybe a trespass or something for a little while or something. - [Peter] Okay, can we step out? 'Cause I wanna see your beautiful store. - [Peter] How long have you owned this? - We've owned the business for 40 years. - Oh wow, that's huge - I mean, we have a family, you know, it's a family business. So we are here in the store and it helps. - And it was Pier One back in the day. - Back in the day. - I remember going in, yeah. - Okay, so someone's let's go into your store, is that cool? - Absolutely. - [Peter] Okay, so someone's gonna come in and steal something, say your - Exactly. - Say I catch 'em somewhere in the store, I see them put something in If I suspect you, but I'm uncertain, you haven't broken the rules in my eyes. Suspicion is not stealing. I have to see you pocket or bag an item. - [Peter] Okay, so good thieves are gonna steal here all day. - They could, but often, we are onto it, we see somebody pocket something, we see them make their way to the door. and I try to block the door here. - You get in front? - I don't really, I'll say, you know, because I try to be respectful of people and so, I'll say, you know, &quot;Hey, is there something you forgot to pay for I always give people the right to the bitter end. I've been doing this all my life, I've been doing this for and I've been in other I've stopped a lot of thieves at the door. Up until three years ago, to a person, everyone's gone, &quot;Ha, you caught me.&quot; You know, they may say, &quot;No, I didn't.&quot; And I, &quot;Come on, I saw you,&quot; and they go, &quot;All right, you got me.&quot; They give the stuff back or they cry or they do, you know? About three years ago for the first time, I got pushed through that door. - [Peter] Right here? - Right here. - [Peter] Oh. - Just, &quot;You, you know, go to hell.&quot; I said, &quot;Hey, you know Oh no, it's, &quot;What are you gonna do?&quot; &quot;I'm gonna call the cops.&quot; &quot;What are they gonna I'm like, &quot;Give it, you know, get outta here, you're not welcome back,&quot; and that was the end of that instance. We've gotten a little, like, I didn't know what to do in the moment, I've never had anybody do that. - [Peter] Right. - Right? - So we've refined our approach now. I'll hang onto a bag, I I won't grab you by the arm or anything, but if I know you got my goods in the bag, I'm hanging onto that bag and you're gonna have to - Okay, how much theft, what dollar amount of theft do you think you deal with - Rough estimate, I think it's gone down However, before that, it was - [Peter] Brutal. - Brutal. - [Peter] Because, businesses like these, with all this inventory, are - Yes. - Insurances, getting employees. - It's all profit. We have a big, big pot - You're an owner, you - I just gaze over my kingdom. - [Peter] Because this is pretty - [Mark] Yeah, sure. - [Peter] Yeah, so you got - [Mark] Lot of stuff. - [Peter] Very cool cards, all the way to spices and hot sauces. - [Mark] Yeah, it's a department store. - And there's toys and furniture upstairs, there's candles and bath - So a place like this is super you're gonna say that obviously - Sure, sure. - But as an outsider, it - I mean, we feel, listen, we feel really symbiotic I mean, we've been here - [Peter] Yeah. - So like at the end of COVID, this community came and And I think they did that because they feel that we have felt that over the, you know, previous 38 years or whatever, that we had added value to their community 'cause they really did, they came out in a time when retail really needed their help. - [Peter] Yep. - And kept us going. - [Peter] Nice old building here. - It's an old Montgomery Ward. - [Peter] Oh, is that - Yeah, they've got buildings like this that look identical to - [Peter] Okay. - There's one in Newport - How many tags do you - (laughs) There's about 47,000 - [Peter] Oh my God. - And I probably have about 70% of that in stock at any time. - [Peter] So you're a bit insane, - It's a nutty business, but you know, it's a family, so my dad's been doing it for years. - Okay. - My son's here with me. - Cool. - Get my grandson in pricing on the- - That's awesome. - On the weekends and during the holidays. So it really is a family, it's a family business. it's good to see small - I mean, we enjoy what we do. - We love our community, and you're right, it is crazy business. And that is in fact what All those skews, all the differences, you know, Amazon can never make a friend at Amazon. yeah. - You don't support your you don't come in and get Like, we believe in the 3D world where people interact with each other. - [Peter] Agreed. - And our customers do too. - [Peter] Cool store, huh? - It's great, it's exactly what I need. I have to bring my roommate here. It's my first time though, but. - [Mark] Welcome. - [Student] I'm just moving into UVM. - Oh, are you? - [Mark] Where from? Where's home? - I'm from Miami. - [Mark] Oh, no kidding. - Yeah. - [Peter] Are you okay? I'm - Yeah, no problem. - Hey squad, what's up? Isn't she cute? I'll - [Peter] So Betty, this is your mother? - Yeah. - [Peter] And what do you do here, Betty? - I do the accounting. - [Peter] Okay, how's that going for ya? I love it. - [Peter] You love crunching the numbers? - Oh, she buys the cards. - I love crunching the numbers. - [Peter] And this is your wife, Mark? - This is my wife. - Okay. the lower level here, which is garden and that kind of stuff. - Yes. - [Peter] Okay, so you're but y'all have your specific tasks? - We got our areas, domains of interest. - It works very, very well. - Oh, absolutely. - Yeah. - This business, because it exists, has taken care of you guys first, then us, then also our kids and their family. This is the life we got. we get, you know, go to like this has provided for the whole show. - Yeah, this is it. - And the lives of so many - The ones who come back to run our sidewalk sale every year. Terry, who's been here for 40 years, since before we opened our hate to say employees because they are, they become family. - [Mark] After 40 years, sure. - [Peter] And so, you never ask age, but what year were you born, - 1943. - [Peter] Oh wow. - From a family of retailers. under the racks in retail. - [Peter] Okay, so this Is that what this is - It's the next. - His son is 14. that comes in and works with us. - It's true. - [Peter] Okay, one, two, - [Both] Yeah. - That's beautiful. - 40 years, 40 years more. - Yeah, now you're talking. - Yeah. - Thank you, appreciate it. - Good luck with everything. - Oh, thank you so much. - My goal is to come back and we talk about, oh remember - My goal is to make it - Okay. (Mark chuckling) - [Peter] Homeport, and - We do. - [Peter] Okay, so if - HomeportOnline.com. - [Peter] HomeportOnline.com, take care. - Cheers. - So awesome seeing a Four generations, that's something that should be cherished. So when you see it Ben &amp; Jerry's from Vermont, and I believe it was two July 4ths ago, they said on Twitter, &quot;It was time to give all our And in something like that, and I wonder if Ben &amp; that being Ben or Jerry, I would love to get an answer, or even the business have 'cause I know Ben &amp; Jerry have done very well, extremely well, they sold out to the big Unilever, I forget the amount, but quite a bit. And wow, Americans have been buying their ice cream for But I'm curious, you know, have If they have, then, hey, stake and at least you believe what you say. I would be interested to (car engine rumbling) - All day long, they're on the steps. They go to the bathroom on They shoot their drugs, a guy, there was a girl it was his friend, he shot I never seen anything like this. It's all day long, they fight, they leave trash all over the place. The ambulance comes in, they disperse 'em, they Two days later, they're back. They go behind the parking I mean, this is constant. - [Peter] This is your business? - Right here? Yeah. - Okay, how long have you been here? - Since 1970. - Okay, is this the worst - Listen, I've been here most of my life. Never, ever, ever seen I mean, I got people don't to go to downtown, you know, I used to work on a lot they say, &quot;Where you located?&quot; &quot;Downtown.&quot; &quot;No, I don't Nobody wants to come downtown anymore, they're scaring all the - [Peter] Right. - All the visitors, I mean, If you really want to see something, come in between six and that's when I come open the - Yeah. - They're all over. They come in, they're they steal stuff from the store. I mean, it's all day long. - [Peter] What needs to happen? - What need to happen? I've They need to get the and they need to enforce the laws, okay? Let me tell you. Three, four years ago, you couldn't smoke on Church Street. If you smoked on Church Street you would get a ticket. - [Peter] Cigarettes? - Cigarettes, correct, cigarettes. Now they use drugs on Church Street, they ride bicycles on Church Street, they smashed all the Nothing happens. - Where are you from originally? - I'm from Lebanon. - Okay, so you know a different world, you can compare and contrast. - Never seen it like this Listen, this is my home, okay? - I've been here all my life - Okay, why are so many - Because if you say something, you're probably gonna get say, &quot;No, you shouldn't But you know what? If you deal with these, with every day, every day, 12 hours a day, at the point, there's a break point. - You're there. - I'm there. I mean, you just, it's tough, It's like, you know, I I see the homeless guys, they're I have no problem. We had homeless people here before, we help them out, we take care of 'em, they never caused any problems, you know, they just had a problem. You know what? We all got problems. And I don't mind helping but when we get to the you know, they have mental stuff that I can't control and I can't help 'em, and they're on the street, They don't get their medication right, they just go from one corner to the other. - If you had a teenage son or daughter, would you let them - Absolutely not, absolutely not, I'll be afraid. that's the difference of when I grew up. - Me too. - You could walk down here, no problem. - You know what? I used to leave the cars unlocked and no problems. And that wouldn't be a good idea, there's something going on here, right? These guys are hopped up probably. - Yeah. - Oh man, I'm sorry. - We need to bring downtown we're losing businesses. I'm talking to a lot of most of 'em say that business is down, nobody wants to come down and shop. They have to ask the people to move first thing in the morning, they're laying in front of I mean, when this is gonna stop? - When is it gonna stop is - That's right, that's But it takes a lot of people to speak up and then call out the BS because it's BS. - Let me ask you this. Most of these people are young people. They're healthy. - Yeah. Everyone looking for people to work, why don't we get somebody to talk to these folks, find them jobs? Wouldn't that be better to go make money, get an apartment? - Yeah, of course, it would. Logically speaking, but people on drugs, they're covering something up You're not dealing with, you so somehow I agree with you, I think through job training, through rehab, through medical. And if people don't then there's nothing you can do, but you can't let 'em be down - But somebody gotta help 'em, what's gonna happen every day, every day, every day? What's gonna happen at the end? Two things, either you're Or you're gonna overdose and then you're never gonna come back. You see, there's gotta by giving them what it's a temporarily fix, - [Peter] No. - They need help, they need somebody, they need therapy, they they need to do something. - And I'll tell you what, and make it easier to do here, you'll attract those people and go the path of least resistance, and that's why Burlington's Brattleboro too, I was down there. - Yeah. - You go over to the border I'm sure there are you could take your kids down - That's right, you know, there was no issues, I saw some new people that just pulled in. - [Peter] Yeah. - Today, and asked them, &quot;Bennington.&quot; I said, &quot;How did you get here?&quot; &quot;We took the bus over here, they told us here it's easier I said, &quot;Really?&quot; Yeah, I mean, so you see, they're coming from the surrounding area. When you got 250, what are you gonna do? You're overpopulated, how How are they gonna eat? Where are they gonna go to the bathroom? Where they gonna sleep? - I think you should pay more taxes. - Me? - Yeah. - My taxes just increased. - I'm just being a smart. - I'm just telling you, - How much? - Well, we have a bunch that we own a lot of properties and that's why we invest in Burlington because we like Burlington. - Yep. - We probably paid, if I over a million dollars in taxes. What do I get out of it? I can't get any police protection, the street, I gotta I go out and clean the - [Resident] You get nothing. - What do you get out of it? Just tell me what I'm getting out. - You get the good feeling of knowing you paid for some pensions, you paid for some pensions, - You know what? Pension is good. Like I said, I don't mind but they gotta try helping so I can help 'em more. But the way they're doing it, they're just not taking The problem is the drugs. Take a picture across the street, you told me this is normal when you got 40 people that's not normal. - I'm a business owner in Burlington, I've been a resident of Vermont I came out of New York City, And I came up here to and it worked out for But the experiences in that I've noticed since COVID, we've really gone downhill, I look at Burlington as a two right now. And what's unfortunate about I see people walking around the problem that are getting paid to I don't see them active doing anything, other than relying on other put up money, put up housing. There are plenty of rich people, this is one of the richest in the country, and nobody they're walking around on give 'em some warmth, put 'em in a camp on King Give 'em some shelter - Yeah, but AC- - 30 days rehab. - Yeah, ACLU. - I don't know, you know, - Yeah, I know, but it's unsustainable. - You know, I just pray that, I don't think it's gonna But I'm willing to participate because I have a very good business. I'm in the cannabis business I'm handing the state I'm collecting taxes for the state, okay? And the municipality, and a lot of people are where are they going? I'd rather put my funds right around here within I'm willing, I've had right here in Burlington, people bleeding, okay? And then they're walking to City Hall and they're walking around it. I couldn't go to work knowing No, no way. So I don't know what they're trying to do, are we trying to scare and build up South Burlington? Is that the new biggest city in Vermont? South Burlington is in Williston. - The money's going there right now? - Okay. - Yes, the money's going there. The $11 million bridge that crosses 89 that they're putting in to go to the gateway of South Burlington, put the 11 million back here. Are you trying to chase out They're trying to kill Burlington. - [Peter] Who's they? - I think that the are trying to not help us. Bernie keeps talking about it, but I don't see anything They're parading around the but they're not working down here. - [Peter] Well, you think 'Cause all the people live here. - This was, listen, I came here because this was a with police protection and I felt safe here. Now I don't feel safe here. I have to buy a commuting car, okay? To come to work because it's in fact, there's a that approached the city with he smashed me in the face in my alley, I never even called the cops, a young kid, I'm not gonna start a Well, guess what? Six months He's on the front page Jason somebody, okay? So it's unfortunate, I don't I'm leaving work now because I don't wanna it gets dangerous. - You're really worried about being down here at night? And I grew up in Eastern you know where that is? - Yeah, of course, East New York. - You ever hear of &quot;Goodfellas&quot;? Okay, that's a true story about what kind of bad bit What you've got right around here are a lot of poverty pimps, okay? You got a lot of people here that have duplexes, Airbnb-ing their apartments Why aren't they helping these people? Why don't one of 'em donate They're not donating nothing, they're knocking that down over there to put up an $11 million building that the city raised money for. What are they gonna do? Let the rest of the buildings deteriorate? They're gonna move one? You've been to East New York, okay, you've been to projects, you understand. What do they wanna burn - [Peter] I mean, that's- - I just think the college was gonna be- - It almost makes more sense, honestly, if you think like they're to another area because it's so logical what needs to happen here. - So basic, I lived there, I moved out of there three years ago. - So you know what's going - No. - They moved a lot out. - Homeless industrial complex, there's a lot of money - Listen, I like you. - The is endless. - I used to, yeah, turn that off. - All right. - This is called the tunnel. - [Peter] Well, yeah, the parking garage? - No, that thing, that brick thing. - [Peter] Oh, that's where the stairs are. - [Resident] That's called the tunnel. - [Peter] Okay, what's that mean? - That's a word on the street, you go to the tunnel and you could buy all your drugs. - [Peter] Okay, great, so you in the parking garage. - I don't know, I don't know. On weekends, it's very bad here. I had a customer walk in and out, she got robbed out of her she came in crying. We've had a lot of because the police won't respond to a nonviolent altercation, I guess. - I gotta stick up for the cops a little bit. - Here's why. They were totally put under - I agree with this. - And then, like, would you and do the dirty work of society? - I'd give them the medal of honor? - Yeah, yeah, me too. We need good cops, and I'm sure there are a I'm sure there are a few bad ones, right? That's just how it goes in anything. - In anything, nothing, - But we need better cops because they're doing the dirty work. Cops aren't here, this thing falls apart - If it was up to me right now. - Yeah. - I would pay to have the You understand? You understand that? On a Friday night, you what's gonna really happen in Vermont? Are they waiting for the In that parking garage, last year, there were two kids that were Right in there, they from Red Square to the parking lot, a guy tried to rob him, they you know, it's bad. - [Peter] So the university isn't feeling the effects of this yet? - Oh yeah, they're telling their students, &quot;Don't even come down here Don't ever come downtown Burlington, no. I mean, my walks of life, right? I hear people go, &quot;We will My business model is right around here. Customers will rather and go to Essex before they come here. They don't care about it, Burlington is now really, You see, every town has an Our downtown is all downtown, there's no upbeat at all It really got hurt bad when they took away the farmer's market, that camaraderie and smorgasbord. They blamed it on the trees were old. What, are you kidding me? You ruined the vibrance of the city, okay? You ruined it, and they all these buildings are empty. Listen, we need help, if you can help us. - [Peter] Well, I'm doing it with a video, that's what I can do. - You know, it takes but at least you're telling the truth. - And that's why I got the shirts. - I didn't even see that. - Seek the Truth 'cause it's hard to find. - I've had this idea. - I'm gonna go see Charlie now. - All right, boss. Guys, Seek the Truth, new merch line. (car engine roaring) Something happening outta And then everyone doing their drugs on the front steps of the church. Got a bunch of people So I'm gonna move through but that's what we've got. I can't imagine the churchgoers being too happy about this. And who wants to go to this church now? That is wild. We've got a mini Kensington, where I just did a video recently where they allow open air drug and it is absolutely horrific. I've been to Karachi, a place called Lyari, pretty hard hitting, and the slums of India, and Kensington had the hardest feel pretty much of any place And while it's not that bad here, it's not going in the right direction. An open air drug usage is, in my opinion, an absolutely terrible idea. And for those that feel otherwise, go to Kensington, walk All right, back to Church Street, let's talk to like one more business, just get another opinion, see if it's uniform or any different. - Every time I try to get I can't. And I wanted to ask the governor, 'cause I've heard different things about the safe injection site and that they're gonna And that we'll build I'm confused because just down the street is the empty Department which could serve as - [Peter] Do you want that? - Well, I want something, my front steps and my backyard and my front yard at my - [Peter] How long have you lived here? - September 25th, I'll be 73. - So from the beginning? - [Peter] Okay. - I am a dug in Vermonter. - [Peter] So tell us, - Well, I'll tell you - [Peter] Yeah. - Not too long ago, a would-be customer was and saw me interacting that had shot up in the driveway and one of them was And so, I got a little hot, he described it on Google and he'd never come to my store. I'd love to have him come this is 24/7 here, this this is every single day. It's on the church lawns, it's in our parking garage. - It's right in back of me. And sometimes, this is no kidding, I come from my home in Burlington and I don't know what I'm gonna expect when I pull in my driveway, okay? I go from my work to my home, which is just up near the hospital, and I don't know what I'm I've had people sleep in And when I wake them, it's my problem. - You're the bad person in that equation? in this, okay? - Well, you need eight hours It's a joke, it's a joke. - Yeah, that's a real joke 'cause I wake up every And some of the stuff that go by my house at night or early in the morning, the abusive language we These folks don't have they're yelling blocks away at each other for either a bad drug deal or you owe 'em money or this or that. I mean, a few years back, we witnessed a man get stabbed in the neck with a pair of scissors by the shoe shop, by another homeless man He died, he bled out right here. They tried to revive him, they couldn't. I saved the same person with Narcan and she was I spoiled her high, and the &quot;I'm gonna have to go do What do you think that trick was? A man taking advantage of her, probably. - [Peter] In your opinion, when did it really start going downhill? - You want my true opinion? - [Peter] Yeah. - When there was no law and order in Washington DC on January 6th, the world went to hell When George Floyd and the Black movement and Black Lives Matter, I think some people the loss of his life and that didn't do the right thing. And I think there's no law criminals have more rights than we do. And it is time to end the show. It's sad, I mean, there that will tell you with &quot;Oh it's gonna pass, it's okay.&quot; No, it's not. We have to stop feeding the If you want us to feed you, you need to do something I don't care if you're high or not, once you come off your high, you could go around and get our city back to what we want. We're paying taxes for this. - [Peter] What about city government? Why aren't they changing? It's all policies, right, - Yeah, policies, yes. But there's a lot of people out there breaking the ordinances, the things that they put on, you know, in books of what our city ordinances are. Don't block my driveway, pay clean up after for your dog. Don't throw trash on my sidewalk, it's littering, it's a $200 fine. People don't wanna press this. They cite 'em, they go to court, they let 'em home or homeless. What are you gonna do? You know the democratic you know, Trump and his cronies are talking about all these things that they're gonna put back. I don't wanna go back to Trump, Trump needs to go in a trunk, I'm sorry, it's just like I shoot and I'm not loaded with a weapon, okay? Our voices are our most important weapons and we need to use them. - And why do you think so many people are scared to speak out? - For retaliation. They find out who you are, where you live, people do strange things, you know? - So it's that lawless here right now? - Kind of sort of feel that way. - But if people don't speak up then, nothing changes. And it's not that I'm not you have to understand. - No, you don't even have to and common sense. - We all agreed on 10 it wasn't a question any of this stuff. - Right, exactly. - People have mental health - And there's a vacant building that the Department of Health left vacant. The state of Vermont opens and who knows what will go in there when they've got a building So what is wrong with people? Let's make our state and our for what we're suffering. I've talked to some great people today, you being one of 'em, is there any unity? Are you guys getting Because one voice at a time is awesome, but, like, where's the movement? - Well, we have the app that when something's going on downtown, we can find out and help one another. - [Peter] But that's between you guys. - That's our community, it's not the- - [Peter] Like, how do you They were very effective, like, how do you get that movement? - Fear. - [Peter] People are just scared. - I think so, I think so. There used to be one and it may have at times been nut the homeless folks that they weren't shooting up they were just holding a tall - [Peter] The good old days. - The good old days, but and they knew what And we had regular and let us know they made and these guys were They knew to say, you know, you know, that's private property. Be nice to that person, And the word gets out that that's not true. - [Peter] Right. - You know, we're tired of and something's gotta give. - Well that's the if you are a compassionate person, like you don't want to be - Right. any of these other words. - Of course, but you - No. - The way it is, like, because they're the worst And so it quiets people down, they're not used to being called that. Now I'm online, I've at this point, I don't care I know I'm not those - Well, I've been called- - And then once you get over that, but once you get over that hump. - Yeah. - Someone says, &quot;Hey, you're a neo-Nazi,&quot; I'm like, that's the dumbest - Yeah. - And I think a lot of people have to get over that like uncomfortable moment, and once you get over that, you realize, oh, there's sort of a lot of empty suits behind that message and that mission. And it's only working through fear, it's not through dialogue, it's not through. quiet conversations with You can't have a quiet conversation with some of these folks. - Of course. - Okay? It's kind of like college kids. 10% of them will get drunk, and they give the 90% the bad rap. So it's kind of sort of the same thing. (car engine chugging) - What happened to Boves? Went downhill? Okay, that is an old school, from my recollection, Italian restaurant. Don't know how long it's been like that. Here we just have mattress See a lot of these buildings and that's just so and hang out there. Gonna go down to the police station, which I don't expect to be able to talk to any police officers, but we'll try, let's see what's going on there. (cars whooshing) All right. &quot;The lobby is not staffed and we will not know you are Yeah, may I speak with an officer please? - [Operator] Okay, what is it regarding? - It's regarding the overall situation with what's going on I'm a video maker, I work with all sorts of law and I just wanna talk (operator speaking indistinctly) Yeah, you know, they don't have to say but I would really love to. I grew up here my first 18 years and I've come back and I've and I'm doing my best to - [Operator] Can I ask your name? - Yeah, Peter Santenello. (operator speaking indistinctly) Okay, I'll be here, thanks, bye. (door clicking) It's like a ghost town in here. No trophies or whatever was in there. Authorized personnel. Med return, no needles. I wanna rip off a few Okay, so currently there are 68 or 69 police officers. They're allowed to have 87. Pre 2020, there were 98 to 104. So there's a reduction. And the reason there's 68, 69 and don't have 87 is, no one wants to sign up. They're having a hard like many places. If you're from Burlington let us know the exact I think I got that right. Whoa, there you go, Burlington Police Department. Yeah, so that didn't really work, I got the call back and they're like, &quot;Yeah, we're really busy right now,&quot; and so that's the case with to get them to speak on camera is I've only had luck with Thank you, Glendale, let me shoot how I shoot and let me show your story, so. It's too bad because they have I'd love to get it. Okay, so what'd you see, - Yeah, there was a younger guy over there that apparently beat up some and then stabbed another guy in the neck, like, it was like random attacks, people get drunk over there It's a crazy, crazy scene over there. It's just, I don't even know. - [Peter] So things aren't going well? - No, the cops are doing arresting them, whatever, goes to the court system Happens all the time, that's why it's getting so bad out here because the court system is messed up, everybody's just throwing - They can only charge them and then it's up to the courts for whether or not they're gonna be able to be prosecuted or get actually charged. - Yeah. - Everything gets dropped. - Yeah, they'll hold 'em for a day or two and then they're back on the street. - [Peter] So how are the - They're not liking it at all. Everybody's making sure are locked at all times. - [Peter] It's not like the Burlington of- - No. - [Peter] Five years ago. - Oh no. - [Peter] What about the politicians? Why do people keep voting - I have no clue. - [Peter] Wow, what are - Oh, I'm making a blanket - [Peter] Oh, congrats, - Business is pretty good, - [Peter] Okay, so this is City Market. - [Security] A very popular grocery store. - [Peter] Okay. - It's very small but a lot of traffic - A day like today, what's been going on? - So we have shoplifting and then also people trying to steal cars. So multiple experiences today? - Yeah, just one only when but then you'll have like two and then some failed shoplifting. - [Peter] Okay, so you in front of the grocery store? - Yeah, and that's, hello? Oh sorry, they're trying Yeah, we're around. There's a full-time security team. - [Peter] Okay. - And I work for Chocolate so I'm like a substitute I'm just helping out extra. - [Peter] That's crazy, we need security in front of - Yeah, it's not something that would've been like a few years ago. Like, I grew up in Burlington and we didn't have security - [Peter] You think it's - No. - [Peter] Not at all? - I don't think so. I think it's kind of hit I don't really think it (car engine rumbling) - All right, guys, City Hall there again, the very south side of Church Street. Looks like they're extending it perhaps, and I have a little story for you here. Back in the day, this and the scar on my lip, I think I was 18 in there and some guy was giving and I said, &quot;Dude, leave her alone.&quot; And he's like, &quot;I'm from Ireland, lad, just trying to have a good time.&quot; And he went away, and then I got the sucker I just remember hosing on the dance floor with blood. And when I went into the bathroom, we were all cleaning my You know, memory lane, Club Toast. Just got some intel on going through all sorts of difficulties. Let's try to check that out. All right, guys, this is the Yeah, I know, most people say, Vermont is a rural state. - What's up, Andrew? - [Peter] How you doing sir? Okay. - I wanna show you the - [Peter] Okay, okay, so. - You guys getting on this - We'll wait, we don't wanna overwhelm it. - We'll be only two minutes. we'll come save you. - All right, Kathy, you're Is that the story? - I am the head of our resident council, but I'm just a resident - Who's living here? - There's 160 apartments. - Okay. - 150 of 'em are full right now. They're purposely keeping because the ones that are that were evicted and a little bit of time to that was happening because of them. - [Peter] Okay, so you're what's been happening here? - Right. - [Peter] Okay. - This is the observatory. This is supposed to be open But what this became, when I first moved here you couldn't even come because it was full of homeless people, drug dealers and drug users, and they would lock the and only let their clan of people in here. - So how would they get in here, past the front door and everything? - Well, we have the key cards. - Okay, okay. - But they just surf in behind people because of the bulk of 62% are elderly, 62 and older. - [Peter] Okay. - And they just push their way by 'em. I mean, if you're a it's not much of a difficult to get in with a And they will. - [Peter] So you have a - We have 62% of the building is elderly, 32% is people with disabilities, And then we have 8% of people who are transitioning from prison. We have had zero problem with anybody who has ever transitioned - [Peter] Okay. - They're not an issue at all. I wanted to show you this 'cause there's a bathroom there, that the homeless people they'll shower, you know, and so we've had to, in the last six months, So the residents don't and this is supposed to So what we've done with Mike, we've formed a resident council, we're kind of taking and we started a neighborhood watch. - [Peter] Okay. - And we've kind of not done much with the neighborhood what it did was it forced to get serious, and they and the guards roaming patrols at night, and then now we have a guard - [Peter] So things are - Well, they're better now and you know, people are down there by the lake, there's three encampments - Right down there? - [Kathy] With about 250, no, you see where the building - [Peter] Okay, yep, yep. - If you go just north of that, all told, there's about around Burlington that are Of those people, some of but a large percentage of 'em, like we had anywhere - Okay. living in our stairways, the ones that come here don't 'cause they don't wanna follow They can't use alcohol, and then the other thing, - But, yeah, we still have the as well as people, who were, basically, we had a full thing had set up where they knew one person to sell this, one person sell that. And they had a box truck and everything to sell all this stuff. - One of the attractions of this building to the people who are using drugs is every floor has free Narcan. So they know that, if they overdose, there's Narcan here available. And as residents, we oppose this, but Burlington Housing, wants to have it here for 'em. - [Peter] But you oppose it? - We oppose it because it's an attraction to bring the drug users Here's one of the trash rooms right here. And on this trash room, and they lock this, they will So they go into the trash rooms at night, they go into the laundry rooms so they can shut the door and shoot up. - So a lot of things have I've taken in a lot, learned a lot. So the city runs this building? - No, the city doesn't run it. So Burlington Housing Authority is chartered by the city of But the Burlington Housing Authority does operate independently. - Isn't it their responsibility to take care of all these problems? - It is, they're totally They don't know how to take of Under our lease and the handbook, it says, &quot;We are guaranteed the right to peaceful enjoyment.&quot; We're the elderly, I'm 68 years old. Yeah, yeah, I spent 18 and a - Oh wow. - I shouldn't be fighting drug dealers when I'm 68 years old. I should be having some and Mike and I. - Yeah. - Spend the majority of our time, you know, fighting drug dealers. - I often spend eight hours a night, basically, walking around, patrolling, like, gathering information, - [Peter] You fix stuff. - Yes, I do lots of odd jobs. - Yeah. - Okay, so what else - Yeah, let's walk down Last year, the homeless people at first, it would just be were the primary things. And as more and more people came, they moved all the way One night, there was an extension cord running out of this door, and they had one of those stairway here to keep warm. - And these stairways, although, they painted and cleaned them up, these stairways would be needles. - So did the city know about this? - Oh absolutely. - Every one of the city - Okay. - And visited and toured. You can see right now, I - [Peter] Yeah. - But if you look at the pictures and we can give you other that would be all over the walls, this has all been repainted because Burlington Housing trying to get this cleaned up, they brought in SERVPRO cleanup people, they washed all these stairways down. There was literally piss and all over the walls in these stairways. You could not walk, you couldn't walk down because you would get MRSA And we had several cases from these people coming So we're on the eighth floor right now and this is one of the larger trash rooms. So this is a room where - [Peter] How many? - In the winter, sometimes many as three. But they would come in here and shoot up and they had to put cages on all of the telecommunications equipment 'cause the people were coming in and stealing the routers just to sell 'em for so for one hit of crack. - So through your experience do you feel like most - No, no, I wouldn't say that. - Okay. what we've had is, of probably the 70 or 80 people I would say half of them were regular drug users. - And probably a third of them would be what we would categorize - Okay. - The same people over and over again. Every other floor has laundry What they were doing is tearing off this part they'd just rip it right so they could get the quarters out so they could rob the machines So every day, you would see because the machines were broken. And then, we can give you pictures of all the hot wiring the dryers, so that they could have heat. And this is on every other floor. - [Peter] Is it free to - It's not free, but if you're here with you pay only 30% of your income. - Okay. - [Mike] 'Cause that's when the coin ops. - Oh yeah, that looks like fun. - I've been all over the world in the 18 years I was in the honestly, this is the most that I have ever been, because as soon as we and started fighting back away from these people, of And at the time, when I first there were 11 drug And we targeted them and and Burlington Housing did a But it takes several months But it really put a where they made three When it first happened, I said, &quot;Well, I better get And then, after the second time, I said, &quot;Well, I better get a stun gun.&quot; And then, after two caught me in the elevator and said, &quot;We're gonna shoot you 'cause you're disrupting our business,&quot; I started carrying a pistol. - [Peter] So you have a lot coming up here and? - So the drugs that come from Springfield, Massachusetts, Philadelphia, and New York City. - [Peter] Okay, and they just know Burlington's a great market? - They know it's a good market. And if you research, like, last fall, there were eight murders in Vermont, all drug related, almost every one of those murders was related to the Springfield, So, Peter, this is our community room where we hold dinners, monthly meetings, and people can come in We now have locks on all the windows and we have alarms on the doors. - Okay. - But the homeless people were coming in and literally cutting the screens and unlocking and climbing even after these doors are And then, they would set those doors so that they looked like they were closed, but they were just barely shut so they could open them and So now there's alarms on the doors. - Right, oh yeah, you can see. - [Mike] It's somebody's firsthand. - [Peter] Yeah, literally, you - [Mike] Yeah, like I like I said, you can when they tried to push it up. - [Peter] Are they - Yes, I think cut it. - Yeah. - When I first got here, one of the things that was a real problem for the residents were homeless people were and all of the packages from were all being left on a table out front. They would just literally walk in the door and fill duffle bags and The other thing that was happening, they were coming in full of stolen goods, and fencing it through residents that lived in this building. - [Peter] Oh. - Who are now gone. - [Peter] So the stuff that's getting stolen off Church Street could come down here? and they would fence it to someone that was living in this and he'd give 'em the money, and then he was reselling. Some of them would just they would go into that community room and lay it out like it was and people would come at 25% of what the tag price was. - [Peter] Geez. - So what we did is we created a plan, presented it to Burlington But you can see the sign, it's completely run by the residents. We come down every day, UPS and FedEx, all of their and they're very cooperative - [Peter] Okay. - And we pass out the packages and we've stopped most of the theft. - [Peter] And you made (Kathy chuckles) Fight for Decker Towers. So how many drug dealers do you think are in the building now? - Six. And then, the one that is maybe the worst drug dealer in beat the eviction because they do it by trying to take away their subsidy and making 'em fall behind on rent 'cause these are all it's the people from New York City that are making the money. - [Peter] Okay. - And in fact- - [Peter] These are their operatives. - And in fact, right, there out in New York City who had and he was busted back in March or April. And then the person whose is now in jail on federal drug charges. Since those people have moved out, they've taken advantage and now have infiltrated into I would say that we have three but we have six apartments that are suspected of drug activity, running the drugs, being the intermediaries for the people coming from out of town into here. So there's still a lot And that's the other attraction for these homeless people Again, they don't wanna go to the shelters where they have to follow no drugs, no alcohol. They can come here, use their there's a very vulnerable population. We had three documented armed robberies at gunpoint in our stairwells of these people, you know? - [Peter] Geez. - So residents were at the to come out of their apartment gonna happen to 'em. So you have old retirees and- - Right. - You know, people not in having to deal with all the crime and they feel threatened here. - Absolutely, and a lot are not only elderly, but they also, some of them have, you or vulnerabilities, things, PTSD, traumatic experiences from And so, it's a very difficult and that's one of the things I thought this was just gonna be a temporary kind of - Right. - And once I got here, I saw and that they're people who are vulnerable and don't really know how that are kind of beaten well, for lack of a better - Mm-hm. - Into this kind of public housing and always being told, &quot;You're So what myself and Mike have tried to get the message to 'em, &quot;You're not a second class citizen, you can't let people treat you start taking some pride in And we've really kind of I think. - We've made a lot of changes and people are feeling and people are willing to fight back. This building was the drug and we're getting it turned around, but we know winter's coming So what we're doing we're creating a plan, a security plan, we're going to present that to and to the mayor's office and try to get everybody to talk about, use our plan as a baseline to start talking about a real so we don't return to (footsteps tapping) (intriguing music) (people chattering) - All right, guys, full circle back to What an interesting day, and I wanna thank all of those who spoke up today on camera because, for every one there were many more that wanted to say something, but were scared of the power button. And my advice to you there are more people that feel that this is not sustainable or Policies equal realities, and, yes, this is a super complex But what currently exists So I feel like Burlington's it's down pretty low right now. It can either come around with some of the momentum we saw today, some of the compassioned citizens that wanna make this place better, or it could continue going down further. That's up to the people here, you know, speaking up, what policies they vote for. And in Vermont, it's always been a very and I feel there's as cheesy as that sounds, can't overcome. Dig into the policies, dig into the people behind those policies, dig into where the money comes from, and usually, you'll find All right guys, thanks for until the next one. (cool music)