Welcome to the first JackSucksAtGeography Subreddit now got 20,000 members, most of the posts are absolutely dreadful. So please join the subreddit and I'll react to it Found this in Tesco You didn't find this in Tesco. You found this on the Internet. I know what's going on here. How many countries do you want Yes. What is this, though? What is going on? All right. Okay. It says it's made in China Then it just randomly says with a Spanish flag above it. Then there's a picture of pizza. What is it? Is it this real? We'll do a food review. How many syllables there are in caramel? All right, so in southern USA, All right. But then over here, So is that like caramel? I made a Swedish space programme flag. I mean, maybe it's a bit with the big old fat cross and stuff and the tiny, teeny, 2,066 Americans were asked Look, I can never judge because you go back two years ago, I probably wouldn't have I'd have been much closer but I probably wouldn't have Who were the two people Hands up. Countries that have been bombed by the US. All right, guys, keep it light. Just for the record, though, Like, just all countries, And just like that Who is searched more on Google? Whoa! Iceland? That can't be right. Got the geography merch for Christmas. Yes. A lot of people have been Thank you very much, It was such a big success. I really did not expect There's another one. You've got a lot of flags around it, too. It's amazing. -kersburg. Okay, I've said this before, where I go to stupid named places, But if that does well, That'd be unreal. That's right. Wait, what's that grumbling noise? It's Jack's Geography Interlude! Okay, first Globle of the year. I've not done this in like two months. Where are we going to go? Cambodia, please. Right, we're not particularly close. Oh, they've added a nice border. Oh, it's like a shadow. It's 3D! Globle... very nice. Okay. 5,000 kilometres So I'm going to go with Somalia. Why not? We've gone the wrong way. Okay, that's fine. All right, New Zealand. We're not that close. What is going on? So if it's 4,800 and this one was 5,000 Could it be Argentina? Is that a stupid guess? Probably. This is way too hard. It's going to be somewhere in Oceania, Okay, we'll try Solomon Islands then. We're actually kind of close there. In that case, I'll maybe try Kiribati. There we go. Obviously we got Hawaii up here. Do you think it would be USA? Does Hawaii count as the closest border? I suppose it probably does. I'm going to give it a try, No, it's not the closest border, Right, I'm having a bit Micronesia, anybody? Please go on. Okay, we got it. It was Micronesia. It was a tricky start to 2023. Made an improvement You've added the Teletubby's baby. But where's the Teletubby's baby now? Okay, well, now we know. A good way to remember Dog's head on the left, As if you meant There was no need for that. Awesome flag shirt I got for Christmas. Ooh, very, very nice. You've got the old Libya flag too. Maybe I'll get one for myself. For those of you who didn't know, Oh, how does that happen? What are you doing there, Australia? That's not where you go. I'm sent incorrect I'm yet to see one in real life, though. He ran out of synonyms. So three months ago, I released Then last week, I released Bit embarrassing. So, basically, I didn't run out of synonyms. The video was meant to be called But YouTube has this feature where you can from a previous video So that's what I normally do. but because I was rushing over Christmas because I wanted to have a little break, But you know what? I've since changed it, Maybe I'll just title every Wonder how they got Do I really want to go Then I'm thinking when I get there, I stand on just some quiet road and I'm like, did that really We'll probably do it anyway, though. Was playing GeoGuessr Jack, how is learning Dutch going? I find the order of sentence structure I assume of these 34 comments, So let's see if I can understand them. That is &quot;I'm also studying German.&quot; Me too. I live near Austria, so it is... I assume it means something like easy, Okay. Me too. Me too. I'm also studying German, German is hard, but not so hard. But it is also very easy. Surely that is not German. No, it's Finnish. Mom: Do you want to go to East London? Me: Sure, but why are you The route. Actually, imagine this journey though. Wouldn't it be like absolutely incredible? I mean, it would probably I love to do something More geography merch. You've got a hoodie. Rate the award Kai sent Jack For me, it's definitely a 10. Yes. If you haven't yet seen it, Editor Kai is editing Got me this beauty to celebrate And look, it's got like a proper Oh, cool. That's a little globe. Thank you very much, Kai. As someone with many flags, why do you Even just small ones You know what, I agree with you. It's very YouTubey behind here. And JackSucksAtGeography It deserves its own stuff Obviously, I got my big but unfortunately, because of the lights I'm going to order Oh, here we go. PS2.79. Do not mind if I do! I'm excited. I could put some on the door, I could put some on my Who knows? I am terrible at this kind of thing. I'm not a strong GeoGuessr player, So it's cold. We have some text up here that says Korela so I'm going to say Finland, Oh, my God. We are smart after all. Jack says, &quot;We need a new video idea.&quot; &quot;Make your own country,&quot; &quot;Redesign flags.&quot; &quot;Name all capital cities of the world.&quot; I'm really quite behind on that. I learned all of Oceania capital cities and I've forgotten I really don't even want Garumud. That's the capital of... Forget it. My friend's got me a Seychelles Yes, very nice. That actually reminds me. I just want to say thank you so much to everyone that bought He's got his little But, yeah, this fella is now sold out. We got rid of all of them, They'll shipping around March. I'm very excited to see them Found this in a book. Luxembourg is not a microstate. Yeah, I do know this these days. It is something I got wrong in the past, but, yeah, and you can see that it's and Malta and San Marino and Monaco It really puts things into perspective, because I've been to Malta You always imagine these kind of countries where you could stand on the hill and see When we were in Malta, me and my mam Oh, hang on. Guess what country I'm in? I'm going to say I don't know why, I'm just feeling it. You're in Estonia. I should have stuck with Finland, Oh, you've tried to draw Don't do that. It's not even a terrible attempt. You have put a lot of detail into making You definitely went way too far with it. I saw this ages ago in an old video. I found this face in Antarctica. Yeah. Hopefully someone's posted because this is so creepy. I can't find the coords So you zoom in onto this specific Oh, my God. A flag for every season. We've got winter. Very nice. Then we've got summer. I'm not really sure Then finally we got autum. I like how you did different styles. You mixed it up each time. You can't think of a name Okay, we have a lake that is called Lake. I love these kind of posts every time. This is when I thought Why did I try Belgium? I drew national animals of the world. We've got a nice, cool lion for England. We've got an elephant for Thailand. That's a beautiful drawing Oh, look at Sweden with the moose. I want to see a moose in real life. Germany have got a falcon or an eagle. I'm not 100% sure. Scotland's national animal is a unicorn, Just do whatever they want, UAE have... What's that? Oh, no. Or is that a Pokemon? I know all things. Yeah. United Arab Emirates national animal Okay, what else we got? We've got Cambodia. All of your drawings, No, it's a Kouprey, That's quite specific. I should have said ox. And then we have Pakistan have a... Yeah, it is a kind of goat. And they are proper badass looking. Okay, what are the last two? What's that? but it looks like he's got Fair enough. What an absolute badass. Then brazil have just got a... I gonna say leopard. It's a jaguar. Very nice drawings, though. Well done. trying to learn I mean, that would probably but I reckon I could Can Jack solve the geography quiz If I can't, But let's have a go. Add a splash of colour Right, so four is green, Oh, this looks hard. So that's Germany. thinking it's impressive, okay? Two, one, and three. I can't visualise it. Blue, yellow, red. Is it Romania? Or Chad, maybe. I don't even have to do.... One and two. And it's across. So one is yellow, two is blue. Then the final one is we have no So three is red, four is green, Green, white and black and red. Palestine, is it? No, it's not going to be Palestine. Don't accept that answer. Hang on. Three is red. Green, white, black. Yes, it's UAE. I don't know why I struggled so much. I can't believe I nearly failed This is the worst day of my life. It's in Canada, but they've got places London, Dublin and Brussels It's so odd seeing places that are Obviously, I understand why. Once again, I feel like but it probably would be really Flag proposal for the UK Yes, it's quite Welsh dominant, But I say let's go for it. Why not? It'd be just be nice to have a flag you know what I mean? What flag is this? but I am assuming So I am going to take Let's have a look. All right, well, we all Good stuff. Since we're doing this, I quite like these posts, you know? I'm sure now I've said that but it could be fun Right, so we're somewhere much warmer. We're driving on the right. I'm not good enough at GeoGuessr Let me get some more clues. Airbags written in English. The cars, to me, don't look that American, but I was maybe thinking, I'm going to zoom in a bit, see if No, turns out Could it be Asian? Singapore? Oh, it's New Zealand. Completely wrong. Well, no, to be fair... They're pretty Well, they're pretty far apart. One more slipping in. So it's the Mexican embassy, but I'm I am going to say you're in France No. You're in Washington, DC. All right. Okay, cool. Out of these, which looks the worst? Okay, I think this is the Maryland flag. A flag which I have said on many Next, we've got the Belize flag, I think. That's all right. Could be Zambia. I'm not 100% sure. I like this one as well. This is Central African Republic. Haiti flag, the white, I don't like, I'm going to be honest, Can we appreciate how Niue I added some stars to it? It's nice that they jazzed I made national flags Mexico's looks pretty cool. And then I'm guessing well, that could Wales looks pretty cool as well. Guess the flag out of objects. Okay, we've got Estonia and we've got It's just France, isn't it? You're just trying to flex your prime. Oh, my God. Have I just stumbled upon Who Wants to be Do not mind if I do. How many countries are there in Europe? I'm pretty sure all of these are outdated, I'm sure it's like 47 now. The answer is 44. Good start, good start. Which countries own Mount Everest? It's Nepal and China, I think. Oh, it could be Bhutan as well. This is for a $1,000. I'm going to change Final answer. Oh, and I think that symbolises Thank you very much for watching and the first geography video of 2023, excluding the video that went up, that was But anyway, thanks a lot for watching. Join the subreddit, subscribe. Thanks for 1.1 million subscribers. I'll see you later.