Energy is one of the more fundamental concepts just what is energy? That's an excellent think. Every time you look at it, you learn you. (intro music) Energy is easier to recognize than define. racecar, a taut bow, and- this may be the of four year olds who have been fed espresso more precise, and say that energy is the capacity people, as physicists use the word work in energy a property of things in motion, or something to move. There are many different thermal, electrical, chemical, and nuclear, Kinetic energy is the energy of motion, be you know- moving, or things like vibration you learn about is translational energy. v, then the translational kinetic energy is video will explore that equation in much more usually created when an object is moved against an object against gravity. It's called isn't moving, it will if you let it go. strength of the force and how far you move is gravitational. If you lift an object higher, which means move it longer distances energy. And, of course, that means when if you only lifted it a little bit. We think of energy as being a concept that with him. He thought the important thing which is just equal to mass times velocity. by the name of Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz championed He thought the quantity that mattered was philosophical and it took a French intellectual it all out. By dropping steel balls into that the balls penetrated depended on the square of the velocity at which they hit the conserved and worked out the formula for gravitational work as the time where the importance of energy the idea of energy in all its forms. It input from famous physics names like Carnot, many others. In the modern world, we can think of kinetic rotate, and vibrate - and potential energy, That force arises from some sort of field include an electric field and charge, or gravity objects, they will begin to move and this kinetic energy. Now just why energy is such a big deal was clear when German mathematician Emmy Noether the universe. She realized that conservation laws of nature. If the laws of nature were fundamental laws of nature - then energy She also showed that if the laws didn't be conserved. But that's a topic for another Noether, which you can watch if you're interested. of energy and I gave you a rough definition and I ended up telling you why energy is conserved. I've talked about are objects with mass. energy. Massless photons also carry energy. fields, so moving fields have to be added and energy were equivalent and mutable, and again. That doesn't make much sense from and massive object in outer space, far from isn't moving. So, in my example, it has it does have mass. If mass is energy, then is present without kinetic or potential energy into the fundamental nature of mass. When located in the mass of protons and neutrons from, it comes from the motion and forces and neutrons. Indeed, the nuclei that make subatomic tempests- of moving and nearly massless an entire video that goes into this and, again, location, with the swirling energy not moving- back to the definition of kinetic and potential description, but it's a reasonable mental is motion and forces, and it is unchanging, somewhat analogous to how the atoms of the grass becomes a cow becomes a person which While energy is often said to be conserved of the laws of nature, energy conservation and it is filled with a field of constant volume mean that the energy of that form - which energy is increasing. In an expanding universe, that distant galaxies look redder than they that has a consequence. You see, the amount color of light and redder light has lower light from distant galaxies have less energy implies that in cosmological situations, with also not conserved. And this is a universal truth. In general of space and time are changing, energy isn't insight relied on the mathematics of unchanging and Emmy's mathematics no longer applies. The lack of conservation of energy in general worth a video or two on its own. However, put a link to a website that talks about it be quite technical. So, at the deepest known level of reality, that interact with them. That's potential the fields- and remember that mass is mostly Kinetic and potential energy of all kinds endless dance, changing identity, but never by the mathematical structure of the laws about the universe as a whole, and there, thing, requiring that you revisit the meaning complicated, while from another, it is breathtakingly topic, with layers upon layers, and one that many different levels of complexity. If and share. And keep on thinking about energy, topics of modern physics. And that's saying (outro music)