Coming out of the night, the weather looks bright in the Andes. But the Inca gods decided otherwise. The deluge surprised this driver. This road is bad, but I'm going. The risk is collision because there are small cars that go very fast. David tries to reach the city of Cuzco where his wife and newborn are waiting for him. On this road, there is only one lane, it is narrow. Between him and his family stands the climatic phenomenon El Nino. A monster born from global warming. It causes torrential rains for months. 7 hours later, the sun warms the track again. David's journey promises to be eventful. The jungle they are heading towards is one of the most beautiful in the world. Of incredible biodiversity. But the riches of the forest attract covetousness. On the surface, it is stripped of its precious woods. In the basement, the man is looking for gold and gas. Entire territories are deforested and polluted. The poor peasants participate in this massacre. They deforest to cultivate the land. The Amazon, the last virgin territory, Becomes a gruyere pierced with roads taken by these new conquistadors. When the trail disappears, nothing stops them. They sink even further, braving the vagaries of rivers and rivers. Once he reaches Cusco, the capital, David will leave for Nuevo Eden. 375 km of impenetrable water tracks, mountains and jungle. This green barrier holds many surprises. Like those Indians still living like their ancestors. The same lamentation must have resounded on Machu Picchu, When the kingdom of the Incas collapsed under the footsteps of the conquistadors, in the 16th century. The conquests, it is now the Peruvians who lead them. David, the driver, always goes a long way with his family before the big departure. Mom, Come on, ride alone! So push yourself a little, it's good, it's installed. Here, grab your dog. I can go with you. No my love, during the holidays, you can go on a trip. Oh no! It's a block, I'm going to load some cement to deliver it to the Manou park. When dad is around We accompany him to say goodbye because sometimes he leaves for 10 to 15 days. So we take the opportunity to spend the whole day with him when he is there. And during the school year, are you all alone? Yes. To do everything? Yes, all alone, to do everything. Yes it is difficult. It loads 10 tons of construction material. Cement and scrap metal will be used to build the houses of the pioneers of Amazonia. Last ritual before disappearing, for 10 days. Go for a little ice cream, but that's it, huh? Give me a taste! No. Eat your ice cream loves! Come on, hurry up! Once on the road, the image of her children fades. To leave room for concentration. We will climb to 5000 meters. This road leads straight to the jungle. For safety, David refuses to chain more than two trips per month. It's 150 kilometers. You have to be very careful. To drive focused, you need to be well rested. In these mountains, you cannot be tired. It is very very dangerous. Most of the time, drivers fall asleep at the wheel. Here, the slightest mistake is fatal and they fall. Last year a friend of mine fell here. Due to bad road conditions, His steering rod broke. He fell right there in the precipice. His co-pilot also died. He was just sixteen years old. The conquistadors were looking for Eldorado, The city of gold of the Incas. In these mountains, they came across another city. She doesn't have the luster of precious metal, But they shine bright white. For 2000 years, The Mara tribe recovers the salt contained in this source which flows from the mountain. David, their book, Their only concession to modernity, cement, Which consolidates the stone walls of the evaporation ponds. She weighs about 65 pounds. Yes It's very heavy. It's a big stone It exhausts me. As it is very heavy. We're going as fast as possible. At 3000 meters, the lack of oxygen is felt. With this load, a city dweller would not run ten meters. Only the body of the Maras, accustomed to the altitude, can withstand such an effort. I've worked here since I was eleven, I'm 33. I've been in the saltworks for 22 years. I always have back pain, always. But that's our job. Now, With these stones, we will be able to renovate a wall. We're going to raise it a meter or two. Nearly 4000 basins have been dug into the mountain in 20 centuries. We are a community of 424 families. And every family has its swimming pools, Depending on what they inherited from their ancestors. Before filling the basins with saline water. The maras line the bottom with white earth. Without this subterfuge, during crystallization, The salt would take on the dark color of mountain soil. I am leveling so that the ground is flat. It's white earth called ****. The pools are made in a month, With the help of a natural fortifier. It's corn juice. It gives strength. This shisha, we drink it to work well. Once leveled, We begin to trample to compact it with our feet. Until it dries. I am 42 years old, I have worked here for 17 years. The production of salt is done sometimes in the ice, Sometimes in the sun, sometimes in the wind. I am always tired. Tiredness. After several cycles of evaporation, The white gold can finally be harvested. We do it like that. We remove like that, just like that. And then afterwards, we gather. 50 kilos cost EUR8. On average, the SEL earns the Maras just EUR100 in salary per month. David, the truck driver, barely earns more. But with the added risks. Further on, a landslide stopped him dead, As well as about fifty motorists. It has been raining for months. The mountain has weakened. I have already lost 6 hours. 6 hours late! Come on, hurry up! The ground is very unstable and with these heavy rains, It doesn't help matters. Sometimes, the drivers wait whole days for the arrival of the backhoe loader. This time, they barely waited 8 hours. I arrived here, there were already stones, but not that many. We could still pass, but stones were falling. So I wanted to clear. And as it was raining, I was trying to clear, clear, clear! But I couldn't. Even more stones started to fall and therefore impossible to pass. I dropped! And result, I wet my pants, my shoes, everything. I took everything off and I'm naked as a worm! The motorist was right not to be stubborn, Last month a driver found out the hard way. This landslide has already taken away a 4x4. An intrepid wanted to pass, But he got stuck in the mud and the river swept him away. In this river. Several people have already disappeared. The road is finally clear. To prevent everyone from starting at the same time, David tries to organize the passages. Chief get on the other side so those cars can get through! They can go right! But we're all going to be stuck. There are few cars on this side. They won't be able to pass, look! Otherwise it will jam. Get on this side. Come on now, let's go. Everything is fine ? It's alright, we'll be able to pass. Everyone advances in turn. Drivers discipline themselves. Everyone knows that a traffic jam at this place, Could turn into carnage. There is a similar landslide that is quietly smoldering. There is another flaw. Another geological fault. At the next rain, She will grow a little more, And it will do the same thing as on the other side with the landslide. David must now catch up. Under penalty of being sanctioned by its customers. Peruvian roads are not all made of gravel and mud. Only the major economic axes are paved. The Cusco Pongo road from Mainique, Leads straight into the gas fields of the Amazon rainforest. It twists between the glaciers of the Andes mountain range. 5000 meters of descent and hairpin bend. One of the highest roads in the world. Diaz, the driver, and his assistant, Lewis, Borrow it once a month. Not without fear. I'm transporting this bulldozer for use in the Amazon. For the transcendent gas site. Every day we see machines arriving, With construction equipment. We are at 4580 meters altitude now. And at this height with a broken heater. It's cold ! If you puncture a tire here, it's terrible, you suffer a lot. It's cold, it's very cold! Five degrees exactly. The brakes work with compressed air, And at this altitude, it is rare. They lack bite. It's because of the air compressor seizing up at high altitude. Yes, there is no more oxygen because of the altitude. The descent is steep, The tight turns. The road is narrow. And loose borders. On this road, most of the time, Accidents are caused by poor maintenance of trucks. Like this wiper, which refuses to continue its work. We have a problem with the windshield wiper that we are trying to solve. The wiper never wanted to work again. Their problem, they solved it by driving at a walk, Almost blind. Once the rain stopped, the wind ended up blowing the drops off the windshield. That day, their prayers were heard. After 4 hours of descent, the two friends, unlike this truck, Will arrive safely in the Amazon. For his part, David is trying to make up for the time lost with the landslide. He picks up the pace on the most dangerous part of the track. The customer? He doesn't care about the rock slide or the problems you had on the road. What he wants is his merchandise, nothing more. And so, most of the time, I don't sleep at all. I advance ! They'll pay, but the problem is they won't call me back. They will call another. Yes, it passes. It's raining again, we have to hurry! If it continues like this, another landslide will block our way. At this place, there are rockslides 3 to 4 times a day. Does it crash often? Yes, it often tumbles! If we were more loaded, we wouldn't pass. That is to say the road is so wet, She is in danger of collapsing. I'm scared because I feel it's going to fall. To pass, I put the truck facing the road. I'm going honestly. Because once engaged, you don't see anything! It lasts about ten seconds. And then we go! Ha ha ha! Laughter, to give courage. Over there, You can see several carcasses that have started to rot due to the passage of time. Here, other trucks fell. There you can see the crosses of drivers who died. It is to remember them, Because they were alive when they passed by. They were advancing. And besides look, these chapels are temporary. The mountain will fall and will bury them. Everything will disappear! And in time, accidents will no longer be remembered. About every 5 kilometers there are deaths on this road. David's truck has exceeded 3 million kilometres. But he wouldn't change it for the world. If you feel your truck falling, you will jump off the truck to save your life. So having a nice truck is not worth it, it's a lot of money. My truck is old, but it runs well. He never gives me a problem and we get along well! After 15 hours of travel, David enters the heart of the lungs of the world. The Amazon. Every time he takes this road, The driver notices that the forest recedes further and further. Precious wood thieves have a lot to do with it. But for several years, The Amazon has become the refuge of an entire population. They are called the landless. And as in the conquest of the American West, They monopolize entire territories on these virgin lands. Our group is made up of several families. We don't own anything, neither land nor a house. We found this land, but we don't know who owns it yet. So everyone occupies it as they can. It measures about one and a half hectares. If no one comes to dislodge them, The group will begin to cultivate the land in hopes of living off it. Most of these people are mountain people, Peasants fleeing the misery of their village. That's it, it's mine, it's here! Idahlia was a tourist guide in Cuzco. After two years of unemployment without any benefits, She couldn't live anymore. She had to leave town with her two children. When we got here, At first, it was covered with plants. You see this area, it was like that. Now the people to clean the earth are burning it. We created four X-shaped streets all over the land. And it ends there. That's my bed. Didn't you get wet from the rain? No, I put a plastic to cover it. Sabina, 40, flattens the entrance to her new hut as best she can. I built my house. Only ? Yes. Did you do it all alone? Yes, I did it all on my own. My children are small. They helped me any way they could. I have nothing to cook with, nothing. Now my children will arrive. They went to the market to beg for pasta and rice. I am a single mother, And so I don't have a husband or family that gives me money. I sell spices, This is how I feed my children. Maybe someday, The landless will raise a village on this piece of jungle. And one day maybe, a road will serve it. And it is perhaps David who will deliver their first merchandise to them. The ravines of the Andes are far away. The danger is always present. This tree has me a bit stuck. I advance a little too much and everything is torn. There is nothing to do ! We're going to go like this. It cut the hood. It's like that, it's like that. That's why nothing can stay as it is here. Once I fell into this river. I was transporting merchandise from Cuzco and the current swept everything away. It was December 25, it was Christmas. And I fell into the river. Rain can fall at any time and destroy the track. One day she is smooth. And the next day, it's as if bombs had fallen. A lot of people died here. Ten years ago, here, I had an accident. There was brush that was like that on the road. It hid a huge hole created by the rain. I arrived with the truck and my wheel got into the hole. I fell here. All the wood I was carrying fell that way. On the logs, there was one of my neighbors who was traveling with me. And we fell, we fell! And the woman is dead, crushed by the wood, back there. There was a whole load. It is a regrettable accident. I still do not recover from it for ten years. Every time I pass by, I remember this woman, this deceased neighbor. Her name was Olivia and she had three children. Now, I never transport people again. Only merchandise, nothing more. David still has 200 kilometers of jungle to cover. The Amazon has millions of kilometers of rivers and rivers. Taking them allows you to reach the most remote villages. Marco is a boatman. We go to the village of ****. We have a 7 hour drive. Settle down here, push that mattress and that gas bottle. Let's go! The Urubamba River is the lifeline of a dozen villages. Lives, which he sometimes takes over according to his whims. It is a dangerous path that causes many deaths. If you capsize, it's impossible to survive. You have to adapt to the speed of the current and operate the motor well. That's the thing. There have been several accidents involving dugouts which have gone badly, And they took the rocks head-on. Stone and poum a log. And boom! One day, a boatman was transporting a load of cement that was too heavy, And he had trouble maneuvering because he didn't have a lot of experience. It had five passengers and three died. We're getting to the really dangerous part. Every year many people drown here. We must pay tribute to appease the rapids of the Pongo. Before, we did this with fermented plants. And today it's with wine. We pay the river. We enter the last bend before the rapids. It's the elbow! The river crosses the **** region, The sacred land of the Machi Ganga Indians. For us, this **** national sanctuary is a sacred place where our ancestors rest. Our ancestors, who live in the rocks. And under the rocks hides the greatest misfortune of the Indians. The gas. The Peruvian state continues to grant mining concessions, And hydrocarbons that promote the destruction of our ancestors. And destroy the Megantoni sanctuary. Gas exploitation started ten years ago. As there is no road, the material is delivered by boat or helicopter. According to the Indians, the boreholes and the factories are upsetting the ecosystem. Game and fish would have disappeared from the area. There are always gas leaks and it affects the fish. There are a lot of boats, trawlers, a lot of pollution. The trip ends after 8 hours by canoe. We are in the native community of Kiribati, that means carpenter. For here there were birds called carpenters. The sacred bird has disappeared. Another song supplants it. We fish and hunt less. We lose ancestral habits and values. Ten years ago, The life of the Machi Ganga Indians was punctuated by gathering and hunting. Today their life is punctuated by the benefits that fall each month. According to the village chief, It is civilization that has entered the jungle. Here, we have more gas. Repsol pays us to compensate for the impact it has on the population. The impact it has on the river, And also the sound of helicopters. He gives us indemnities, When it searches for new gas layers or when it exploits them. We are only compensated for the indirect impact it causes. About EUR73,000 per year for the whole village. Before, there was nothing to eat, nothing. Before, there were no stores. Now there is one. You can even listen to music. Almost everyone has a TV. Most people are at the same standard of living as the rest of the country. Everyone has ice cream, food, especially beer. Here, we never run out. Every day ! A plague among the Indians. And it's not the only one that happened with gas exploitation. The disappearance of wild animals has melted on neighboring farms, A winged mammal with a fierce appetite. Bats abound. It's more like years past when there were hardly any. Now there are many. They hurt the cows. There are more and more who suck their blood. And nothing can be done to combat this scourge, Because they are nocturnal beasts. He's over there. Come to see ! Contrary to legend, bats do not drain animals of their blood. It is the infection that follows the bite that kills the beasts. The peasants rarely have the drugs to contain it. There are a lot of bites. That's why it bleeds so much. Gas, subsidies, alcohol are slowly killing the Indians at Machi Ganga. Other tribes suffer the same fate. After two days of driving, David finally arrives at the Indian reservation where he has to deliver his construction material. And collect a new load of wood. He is a native, an Indian ****. Here is the village called the new paradise. This is where the road ends. Seen from afar, we could actually see a piece of paradise there. Seen up close, nothing to dream about. The wood comes here from several places. He transports it by boat and then small trucks bring it here to be loaded. Good morning! How's it going? Okay okay. David arrives 6 hours late. No one tells him anything. And for good reason. Me now I don't know when I'm going to load because I don't have good news. There are many trucks that arrived at the same time and I have to wait. Me, I've been there for almost 3 days waiting for a load to return to Cuzco. These are all days when he will not be able to work. Only compensation for the drivers, Lodging and board. Three months ago, while sailing in the middle of the jungle, This man witnessed a rare scene. Did you film it? Yes, with a small camera. It's incredible. I can not believe it, But it's real. The Indians who call out to him from the shore are piro machos. Their way of life has changed very little. Peruvian law punishes anyone who tries to approach them with imprisonment. Pyros machos are not immune to the diseases of modern humans. A simple flu could decimate them. It is surprising in our time to see people who live like at the beginning of civilization. Completely naked. These are people who are not in contact with the rest of civilization. They just go out of fear to look for food, clothes. If they were happy in the forest, they wouldn't try to get out. I believe they want to be part of our society, Because their needs compel them to go out and see the world. A world that is often limited to the nearest village. And has an endless dive into alcohol. I'm from the jungle! Me, buddy, I'm civilized now. I live here, here, here! I am dying here. But why? Because I have no land to go to! Four days later, David receives his load. Ten tons of wood. Each year, the Peruvian forest is amputated by 145,000 hectares, That is fourteen times the surface of Paris. And this number is constantly increasing. I like the jungle, the rivers and to go fishing. I love being in the jungle. Not for a very long time. If nothing is done, according to some experts, In 2030, the Amazon will have completely disappeared. With an ax it is difficult. It would have taken two days to do that. Now, with modern means, the machine does that in an instant. 2 hours and it's over.