I had been married for 18 years. I feel sorry for my wife sometimes. Yeah, because she's been working on me for 18 years. And this is how far she's got. Ta Da! We're working on things, you know, it's important. She tells me I'm not a very good listener, you know, and she's probably right. But in all fairness, she's not a very good summarizer. And when she tells me about her day, it's not like a DVD. There are no deleted scenes. You're doing this in one take. Roll em. All right. And I want to hear about her day. You know I do at first, but somewhere around 30, 40, 50, 60 minutes. She's not slowing down. She's built up a head of steam. I'm like, wait a minute. Are we almost finished? We just getting started here. I got to go to the bathroom. You know, and I realize she's only talked about a ten minute span of her day. How is this possible? This isn't even real time. Here. We're actually losing time while you're speaking. We're going back in time. You gotta hop in the Delorean just to get back to where we started. She's getting into it. She said that? He said that. I'm like, are you telling it or living it? Stay with me. Right here. It's not happening now. It's like the time when you did the thing. Now I'm in the story? She can't be wrapping it up because he's into the story. You know, characters that from her life that maybe I met once, you know, Kathy broke her toe and she couldn't help with the fundraiser. I'm like, oh, no, I'm just stalling. Who's Kathy? Who's Kathy, who's Kathy? And I gotta figure it out because I know it's going to be on the test. And I know what to ask because that's another 45 minutes right there. Kathy. Come on. I drink coffee with her every week. I'm like, you like coffee? Oh, that's on the test. And it doesn't help the sports centers on right behind her. And I'm not watching it. Watching it. Per se. But there is a little caller in the bottom. They keep looping. The score is in the highlights over and over, and every once in a while my eye would just follow it and I. I don't do it on purpose. It just goes, you know, and I used to wonder why they would loop the same score so many times in like a five minute period. And then I realized they figured it out. The married guys can only look for a second at time. Take a little. Now, piece it together later. Right. You follow her. I'll get the info. I never know when she's done. You know that would help, right? I just tell her, you know, it would be nice. Maybe at the very end, if you wrap it up with a song like Sports Center. Then I would know for sure, you know? And that was my day. Dana Nah Dana Nah Dana Nah And after all that, she's like, how was your day? I am like I don't even remember. I came home, you started talking. It went blurry for a while. Dana Nah Dana Nah Got some married people over here. married guys. Married guy right there. Right? Right. Cool. How's it going, man? How long you been married? Five years. Five years. All right. Sweet. And you said that very upbeat. Five years. Because some guys say it like they've been through a war five years. Where were you stationed? Walmart. Nearly lost an arm in the battle of the duvet. I keep learning those bad terms. I came home from the road, my wife and I bought this, like, duvet and the sham and the ruffles, and our bed looks like a gigantic poodle. But she liked it, I didn't want to complain it looked nice. I thought, I'll just lay on it. Right? You think? No, no, you can't lay on it. What do you mean we can't lay on? It's a pillow, right? No, it's a pillow you can't lay on. It's called a sham. Well, at least they were honest. I can't believe they called it that. And she still bought it. Still making rookie mistakes. You know, I was in target, and, my wife gives me that. Honey, why don't you go get line? I'm almost finished. Okay. You mean at this time, right? Because I feel kind of stupid with the empty cart, right? You're going to be there. That line flies when you've got nothing. People just move out of the way to see the idiot come through. Where is he going? I don't know, you get to the front. You're a total moron. Hey, how are you doing? just a dry run. I'll be back. Walk around. Get right back in line. Okay. This time. All right? Yeah. Eventually I end up in that next to front position, you know, and just ditching the cart and just letting people through one at a time. Okay, you go ahead. But if she shows up and I'm in the. Everyone's ignoring you. The line's just blowing around yoiu. I'm just some loser reading red book. Like you ever find your wife? No, I didn't, I learned 15 ways to satisfy a man. I can't believe leaving the store didn't make the list. But it's not always how long you're married. Sometimes is how happy you are. Because my wife and I were on a cruise ship with this couple. Right. I don't know if you guys have done the Alaskan cruise. If you haven't, it's fantastic. It's great. it'll really make you feel young to the average age on our week was, like, 120 something years old. And all week long, people kept saying, I want to see Alaska before I die, you know? And I was looking around the ship thinking man, some of ya all cutting a little bit close. Might wanna give yourself some leeway. But we sat at the same table with this couple all week long because that's how they do it. Right. And they had been married 53 years, which sounds inspiring until you meet 'em. You could tell they've been pissed for 52. They had that attitude well I said, forever, a deal's a deal. Man you guys should split up. Oh, I wouldn't give her the satisfaction. I think I can outlast her. State farm pays the winner. I'm married. I'm happily married. I have a beautiful wife. A lot of conflicts in marriage. You know, Like, we say the same things, but it's always interpreted differently. Like she'll say I haven't seen you in two days, and I'll be like. I just saw you two days ago. What do you want from me? So my wife is Spanish, and even though she grew up in the Bronx with brothers, there's certain things about my culture she doesn't understand. Like for Thanksgiving, we're at the grocery store, and she's like, okay, I need to get a turkey. I need to go with the stuffing. I gotta get the pumpkin pie mix the cranberry sauce, I okay, hold on a second. Did you say pumpkin pie mix? She's like, yeah, I go, we don't we don't eat pumpkin pie. What are you talking about? I go, baby black people don't eat pumpkin pie. Yes, you do, I go, black people don't eat pumpkin pie. What are you talking about? I go watch this. Who's a black lady in a store? I go, man, how many fucking pies y'all get She like child I aint getting no damn pumpkin pie. I go, we don't eatpumpkin pie, do you? People who don't eat sweet potato pie? You others besides the blacks. I want you to try a sweet potato pie. Okay? You have to try it. It's not like pumpkin pie is much better. Now it comes the drawbacks. You're going to get diabetes. And your credit score is gonna drop about 200 points. Now, let me tell you something. It is a tasty treat. Things are going to change. Things are going to change. Your urine is going to look like log cabin sirup. But let me tell you, you will be fuller than you've ever been. Full. She's doesn't understand a lot of stuff ready for this for Halloween. She wanted my son to be a monkey. I go, baby, he he can't be a monkey. Well, why not? I go, for black people. See what to see the costume Papi. Like what you talk about. Oh, my God, it's so cute. It has this little vest and these little tap shoes. This little bow tie. I'm like hold on one second. You want my son to be a tap dancing monkey? For Halloween? Yeah. I think it'd be so cute. I know it's not going to happen. Well. Why not? I mean, we don't want people. We are. People need to get over it. I was like, then how about we dress him up as a gardener? Yeah. blower to his back? And then when he drops the wrapper, he could blow down the driveway. How about that? Para la la la Bamba? Why don't up as an undocumented worker? And when people say where are your papers? he can go no sey she doesn't get it. I'm constantly having to teach. The other day I came on, my son is like a little curly afro. She's brushing it. You can't brush an afro. My son looks like Frederick Douglass every morning. Going to school. I go, what are you doing? You can't brush with Ben Wallace. Come here. Let's get a look at a comb. This is Murray's grease. To fix this, please. And it did not. She did. The other day. She bought some mousse. You can't put mousse in black hair. You know what, nappy hair does to mousse. Nappy hair, drinks mousse. Here's mousse and nappy hair Oh, Thanks, sister. Is that ahm mmm. My wife also has no concept of money. Like, she doesn't realize we don't have that much for her birthday. She wanted me to buy her a $2,700 Louis Vuitton purse. I said, you need to go find a purse equivalent to the amount of money you going to have in the purse. What you need is a $38 purse. What you need is a Larry Vuitton. Okay, maybe a coochie bag. You know what you could get, baby, I got you. How about an assistant coach? $2,700. She doesn't get it. Time for school. I have a four year old. A two year old. She finds the most expensive school in the world. Iy cost $1,500 a month, it's on the corner of foreclosure and divorce. Okay, $1,500 a month for preschool. I'm like, why? He's learning French. I go he don't know English. He's four. And I'm not sure for, like, because the French kind of my son's he's already kind of acting weird. I was leaving for the show. Like alright son I'll see you later. I turned around on a beret. He had a wine glass with milk in it. He was like. au revoir Papa I said, you can't drink milk this way he might pee in the bed. He goes, oh, a stupid American. I have already peed in my pants. For the couples, it's funny when you see when you see people that are just together, they just started going out. They're funny. They always think everything's beautiful. Like, I love her, man. She loves me. I love her. Man once you get married it changes. Man. You know, once I got when you get married, it's like you turn to a nine year old again. And, you know, my friends are. Call me up. Hey, Willie Hey, you wanna go get some beer. ahm ahm Oh, okay. Hold on. All right. Hey, Hey, babe. I was wondering if it's all right. If I go get some beer, can I go get some beer? I could go? Okay hold on, what's up, bro? Of course I can go. What do you think? And you know, You know what happens, man? When you. When you're together? It's a battle. It's a it's a battle for position. And that's what happens. And never ends, man. It never ends. You keep fighting for your half, and she fights for her half. And you keep. And I think that's what keeps the relationship going. You know what I mean? And when you just give up, I think that's when you're like the living dead, right? You ever seen those guys? Like, start out saying, you know, everything should be 50, 50, right? Oh, when you first get married, they always say everything's going to be 50/50. You know, 50/50 gets good too. You women. Right? All right. 80/20 must be crazy. You ever gone to the mall and seen that? You ever seen that guy that only has 10%? All right, all right. He's walking around with the dead stare. You know? Right. You go up to him. Hey, bro. Come here. You can run. Like, please shut up. She can hear you. shht women. Do the women you do that? Every idea that you have. Any guy in here, any idea that you have that you actually get to do at the house? It wasn't your idea, man. If you get to do it, it was planted in there. You like I, I hear guys right now say it all the time. Oh, yeah. I have a man cave. I have a man cave, and they brag about it to dude check out my house, go in the garage. I have a man cave. Oh, you're not in the house anymore? You're You're not. You're. You're in the garage, man. You're not in the house with the humans, man. Right that's women with women. The Jedi, mind you, they're like, oh, this is so cool. I'm a buy you a poster. You know, I got, I got a tiny new baby at home. Yeah. Thank you very much. Yeah. I've also got an old baby, who's trying to kill the new baby because he's a jealous little dick, and he's realized his time in the spotlight has come and gone. We moved on to the new baby and give a shit about guinea pig baby anymore. We moved on to. Let's not make the same mistakes, baby. Right? I'm just glad the new baby's out of my wife, because I'm not sure if you guys know this. At eight pregnant women get really horny and they're also very gassy at the same time, which is a bad combination if you're the husband. My wife comes out to me all pregnant. She's like, hey, do I look hot to you. Do I look hot you? I am like yeah, sure, honey you look hot there. And she goes, well, you want some of this? You want some action? No. respectfully decline your action. nobody warned me what was going to happen to my wife's boobs after the breastfeeding. I got no proper advice in that area because, ladies, what happens is, when you breastfeed, the boobs are fantastic. They're bigger. The faster they're stronger, right? But as a husband, you can't touch them because they're too sensitive. And then by the time you're ready to get in there, you're not left. The original product that you started with in the first place right. My wife had a nice B going, and then, it turned into a C, and the first kid did some breastfeeding, and then the process repeated itself. And then a second kid really did a number on them. Right? So. Now what was a nice b. Now one looks like a man's wallet. And. The other one looks like a leather satchel. You might see it a Renaissance fair. With some crystals in it after it was dropped by a falcon at a high altitude. Now, I got all kinds of little hairy dudes coming up to us on a regular basis. Like, siar is that the satchel that holds the one ring? no. That's my wife's titties, Frodo. You and your buddies beat it back up. so my wife has jobs, all right? She shops. That's her job. You see this outfit I'm wearing? You think I picked this out? No, it had a sticky note that said Friday on it. I wore it today just to let that bitch know who's in charge. You know what I mean? Like, just I do what I want. That's what I'm saying. And she, But she, like, she shops. She, she's got an iPad. I have an iPad. My iPad is for porn and the crush candy. That's what I do with my iPad. My wife, she shops on her iPad, and I have to hear it. She sits next to me. Look, babe. I'm like, look, I don't look. You're not. Look, I pin it on Pinterest. Look, I don't give a ^&amp;%$*4 I don't ever say that. That's in my head. What comes out is. Yeah, yeah, yeah, well, we should buy that. We? Yeah. That's she likes to go to the Macy's. That's where my wife likes to go because that's where they trick or the best. They send her coupons and she falls for it. Look, I got a coupon. Did you see, I got a coupon. I got a coupon. They send it to me in the mail. That means I have a coupon. Honey, they send that every month. Every month they come. It's not a deal. If they come every month. Sometimes she takes me to the Macy's with her, and I don't know why. because all I do is sit with the mannequins. That's what I do. And I wait, and she brings it, and I protect it. I protect her sh%t. And there's always some other asshole with the other mannequins, and we don't talk. We just say, well, yeah, you keep your chit over there. I'll keep my chit over here. And. I got to be the fashion show judge with my wife. She puts outfits on and comes out to me like, I know chit. This one or this one? Get them both, kid who needs a savings account? Get all that chit. yeah. She likes to get deals. My wife likes to get deals. And, trust me, I know she tells me about them. She comes home with all the chit she bought, and then she spreads it across the living room like it's the first day of school. And I got it here where she got it. The bitch she killed to get it. And she doesn't even breathe when she tells me about it. She sounds like an auctioneer. Oh my God. I went over to Macy's at 20% off another 10%. I was like, can I use both coupons? Like, hey, can you us coupon Like, oh my God, it's like 30% off. I scanned it, it was only 50%. I was like, oh my God, it's like 70% off. So I went ahead and got it. It was $8. The regular price was a million. Can you believe it? It was a million. And I went out and got it for $8. I went over the Nordstrom Rack, not the regular Nordstrom. Sometimes I go to the Nordstrom Rack, but not this time. I went to the regular Nordstrom to see what they had. They only had one in my size and I was like, oh my God, that's my size. But I don't know if I wanted it. So I hit it. I hit it so some other bitch doesn't get it just in case I wanted it. So then I left and I came back, I go, I do want it. I went ahead and got it because I was only $15. Can you believe it? Give a chit. Chit. Yeah. She gets excited the only time she whispers as if she got it from like Walmart. And then it's a secret all sudden and she'll lean in. I got this at Walmart. But can you believe I got this at Walmart? Yeah, they sell chit there. I yeah, I and then she goes, here's your underwear. because that's where she buys my underwear at Walmart. Comes in a 50 gallon bag. 675 of them all different colors, never white. I'm not allowed to wear white because sometimes I shit myself. And she's all judgy about it. What happened? She starts asking me dumb questions. What did you wipe? I didn't think of that. No. Let's see what happens. Okay? I'm not a good shitter. My wife's a good shitter. They have points, hers have points, and two little pieces of paper. She's done. I'm there for an hour and a half like son of a bitch. Shit. And then I just get. I get close enough, and I say, and I go, you know what? I'll revisit. I will revisit, you guys, some of this fancy water, some of this Santa Barbara fancy water. Are you okay? You're not. You're laughing at me, shitting myself. I don't even I don't even shop for the groceries. I my wife shops for the groceries. I sit on the couch and I wait. And then my wife comes home with the groceries. And then she announces to the house that the groceries have arrived. The groceries are here. And if you speak wife, that means get up. That's what that means. Because if my wife makes it from the kitchen to the living room and I'm still sitting down, we got problems. You understand me? A lot of problems, and I. You didn't get up. I tell you that groceries are here again. did you hear me the groceries are here this. Are you just gonna sit there? I shop on day I grab groceries and you can do whatever you want. I'm. And my dog will look at me like, how come you didn't get up, man? Like, you know, she's going to bitch, man. Shit. Because that's my job. To get the groceries. I got to go to the car, get the groceries, bring them in the house. That's my job. And I don't care how many bags are out there, I'm going to one trip it. I don't give a. There could be 50 bags. I load that shit up, I load them up. I feel like one of the strongest men in the world. Competitions. Sometimes my wife will get paper towels that'll f up a one tripper. So what I do is I throw them on the ground and I kick them. I kick them. And then she bitches about that. Why did you kick? You don't have to kick. I'm. You can make two traps now. No, bitch. You don't get it.