Darth Vader might be the most iconic villain of all time, but his humble beginnings aren't so fondly remembered. From the sand dunes of Tatooine to the planet destroying Death Star's, let's go through his live-action evolution....animated! In Star Wars: Episode 1 - The Phantom Menace, a young enslaved Anakin Skywalker - apparently born from Immaculate conception - sports a bowl cut and dirty clothing. After having his blood tested by a stranger, he earns his freedom by winning a Podrace, abandoning his mother on Tatooine to join the strangers space-cult: the Jedi Order. After the stranger dies, his apprentice, Obi-Wan, takes him under his wing. He's then made to wear Padawan robes and sport a braid. Meanwhile, Anakin develops a crush on Padme, the queen of Naboo. Ten years later in Attack of the Clones, Anakin is taller, with darker hair, and darker clothes, and a longer unrecognizable face. He is assigned to guard the now Senator Padme, and makes her fall in love with him by means of...creepy stares? Later, after reuniting with his lost mother, she soon passes away and he avenges her by slaughtering an entire village of Tusken Raiders But luckily Padme is cool with this. This time Anakin battles against Sith Lord Count Dooku, and loses his arm, but he obtains a robotic replacement. He also secretly marries Padme, despite the Jedi's code that forbids love. Three years later in Revenge of the Sith, Anakin's clothes are even darker, his hair is longer, his face is scarred and he's gloved his robo arm. In an effort to save his pregnant wife after experiencing premonitions of her death, he seeks help from Chancellor Palpatine -a secret Sith lord who makes Anakin his apprentice. Dubbing him Darth Vader. Now evil, Anakin's eyes turn red and yellow, and he chokes his wife Padme. Ultimately becoming the cause of her death. He goes head-to-head with Obi-Wan, But loses the high ground, which results in his remaining limbs getting sliced off, and being burned in lava. But he's rebuilt with a shiny life-saving black suit, a fancy robe, with a cape and a perfectly symmetrical mass. Nineteen years later in Rogue One, Vader's codpiece is large and wrinkly, his robe is above his shoulder pads and his control panel is simplified. His helmet is less symmetrical, with a smaller breathing apparatus, red tinted lenses, stockier neck, and a prominent widow's peak. He attacks a rebel fleet carrying death star destruction plans, but they just barely escape his grasp. A new Hope features a more smudged looking suit, with a normal codpiece, and periodically see-through lenses. Vader manages to defeat Obi-Wan and then heads into battle, getting knocked into space while chasing a young pilot. Narrowly avoiding his battle stations destruction. In Empire Strikes Back, Vader is back! And this time, he's much shinier, his robe is now under his shoulder armor, his control panel is more robotic and his helmet has a less prominent widow's peak, darkened lenses and a larger breathing apparatus. He learns the young pilot he chased is actually his son Luke. and decides to turn him to the dark side But, things don't quite work out. In Return of the Jedi, Vader sports the same look as Empire as his son invites him to join the light side, but Vader resists and once again, Loses an arm, but upon seeing Palpatine overpower Luke, Vader overthrows his master defeating the Sith. He allows Luke to take off his mask in order to see his son with his own eyes, revealing his pale burnt face Sometimes with or without eyebrows and then he passes away. While his remains are burned in ceremony his Force Coast looks on in peace or... Uhhhh, in angry young angst. While this would be the end of Vader's story, his mask would appear in the sequel trilogy. Guiding Kylo Ren on his own evolution. Can someone grab this guy a cowl? Thank you all for watching, liking and commenting. If you'd like to support the channel like these heroes have, check out the Patreon in the description below. And if you're strong with the light side subscribe for more animations, Heck! Siths too - we don't discriminate...