Hello, friends of Italia Squisita! I'm Luciano Monosilio and today we're in Campo dei Fiori to talk about a dish, Cacio and pepper, that challenged even a famous American food I know lots among you expected a savage reaction. I'm talking for Italia Squisita, these times, for these kinds of reactions, is over. It has been a game for us, but it is now becoming a trend that might be giving a wrong image of Italian chefs and cuisine. This is why we are now moving to my restaurant, where we're showing you other recipes for cacio and pepper, where I'll be revealing you some secrets to avoid the &quot;botch&quot; Andrew Rea made in his video. Let's now start our cacio and pepper meaning a classic recipe made of 3 First passage: let's throw our spaghetti Once we threw our spaghetti, let's move onto the toasting Peppercorns. To toast pepper correctly, we'll need two to three minutes. Once we will feel that the pan starts heating up and the pepper starts frying lightly, we're moving it away leaving it to rest. Please, before grinding the pepper, it's important for it to be cold. is to save a bit of cooking water. mistakes Andrew Rea made in his inside the cheese. If the water is too hot, indeed, it might make our cheese stringy. Now, second passage. Once we collected and put the water on one side, let's take a pan and put Roman pecorino inside. Let's grind the pepper. Once we ground our toasted peppercorns the water we previously put on one side. With the help of a rubber spatula, let's stir it. Let's stir our Roman and water. Andrew, as you can see, is because we obtained Another common mistake is to add too much water, as this, later, will create another problem, the flame again to then obtain a temperature, so the cheese will become stringy again. When the pasta is cooked, let's make another step to lower the thermal excursion that happens when we add the pasta inside the sauce. Let's remove our pot of water and put the cacio our spaghetti inside, strained and dried. Let's give it a first creaming. At this point, we'll give it a bit of heat, so we'll put it back on the flame and cream it, being careful not to reach that famous temperature, meaning over 70 degrees, that makes the cheese stringy. Once our pasta is creamed and hot we'll finish it, always out of the flame, Let's finish the creaming and, as you can see, our pasta, creamy and not stringy. Let's plate it and make a nice nest and finish it with another dusting and ground black pepper. Toasted, obviously. The traditional cacio and pepper is done. Let's start with the second recipe, this is called exactly 'the foolproof cacio and that I use in my own restaurant to deal with greater numbers. It just needs a small trick, so there's a little secret. We're creating a starch gel. Let's start by placing Corn starch. It's very important, when adding corn starch to the water, Once we add the corn starch into the cold water, we're bringing it to a boil. What do we need this for? This starch gel binds, meaning it creates a bridge are inside the cheese, and makes it so that the cheese doesn't get stringy. So, even when we get to our sauce will never get stringy. We're creating this starch gel. to know that the starch gel will not modify the taste of our cacio and pepper, it will just help making it smoother instead, and will make it possible we'll obtain a cacio and pepper that won't be at room temperature this time, but It's ready. Let's allow our corn starch the preparation of the cheese mix. For this recipe, we're using two cheeses: Roman pecorino and grana. Let's start from grana. We're adding it inside a blender. Roman pecorino. As you can see, this recipe abundant, this is because we're making it The second passage is to close the blender and give it a first mix. So, let's mix our cheeses well add the ground pepper that, in this case, is not toasted. Let's close the blender again and mix it while we finish the preparation for our sauce. Let's boil the water, then lightly salt it and bring it to a boil. Let's finish our sauce by adding extra virgin olive oil. Always using the blender at a medium speed, we're adding the starch we prepared and allowed to cool. The sauce is done. and creamy. We're storing it inside a bowl. At this point let's throw the spaghetti in the water. Our pasta is ready, and just as we did before, we're straining it. Let's take a steel pan, put it back on the heat. off, not on. Two spoonfuls, I always suggest one per person. Let's add some cooking water. With the help of a spatula, Once everything is well incorporated, meaning the cacio and pepper cream we're pouring the pasta we strained before. Let's mix everything well. Let's add another ladleful of cooking water and turn the heat under the pan on again. The cacio and pepper sauce is boiling, so what I was telling you before is all true: here's a cheese sauce that doesn't get stringy. Andrew, as you can see, but the result is equally good! Once we cream it and bring it we're dusting it with pepper and at this point is ready to be plated. And we'll finish it with grated pecorino And our flawless cacio and pepper is done! We're now at the third and last recipe: a homage to a great Italian chef, Riccardo Camanini. You'll find pepper by Riccardo Camanini on Italia Squisita's book, just as many other recipes by many other chefs. the English version, I wanted to show you the Italian version, that features my carbonara on the cover. In this recipe, the ingredients are more or less the ones in the addition of extra virgin olive oil only and a peculiar ingredient, a pork bladder. This bladder can't obviously be used as dry, water for at least 12 hours instead, changing the water every hour. 12 hours, 13 hours are over, we can use it. This is the end result. With the help of a funnel, the extra virgin olive oil and the ground pepper. And we're filling our bladder with rigatoni. Let's add some cold water. Let's close the bladder well. This phase of closing the bladder is very important, because the steam that the cooking will produce Once it's closed, we're bringing the water to a boil As you can see, it's blowing up and at this point, we'll start basting it with some water, so as to let all of the humours out and into our cacio and pepper. It's very important to understand the cooking we're taking double the time that is indicated on the pasta box. When the cooking time is done, the last passage. Let's shake our cacio and pepper well point we're ready to serve it. We're placing it on a plate and Once all of the ingredients we're ready to serve it in a plate. Using this type of cooking, that is totally different It's going to be much firmer so we're going to find al dente inside, with a softness on the outside that gives it this very peculiar creaminess. What is the bladder giving to this dish? It obviously enhances it with humours and flavors that are different And here is cacio and pepper in a bladder by Riccardo Camanini. So, Andrew, did we solve this mess? I hope my advice will be useful, friends of Italia Squisita, at home. Big greetings from Campo dei Fiori and happy cacio and pepper, everyone!