Today, we are going to look at one of the This was the original immortal game played Let's get straight into it. Andersen was playing as white and Kieseritzky Anderssen started with e4, Kieseritzky played And Then Anderssen went for f4, the King's This was a game played in 1851 and in those Therefore, black obliged and he took this Now the most popular move from white in this queen h4 check. But Anderssen went for bishop c4. Black came down with queen h4 check. He can't block with g3 because this pawn is Therefore, white went for the obvious move, Now black came up with an awkward looking I guess he was looking to distract this bishop But this was not such a good move. White simply took it and here both players Then Kieseritzky plays knight f6, attacking Anderssen did not care about this and he went Black had to move his queen. He went for queen h6 maintaining his defense Now Anderssen played d3. He could have actually gone for d4. That would've given him two powerful central knight takes, white could have simply pinned the knight. But that did not happen. White played d3, and black responded with His idea was knight g3 check to fork the king of this pin. Here, rook to g1 was a good option, but white because now white can simply capture with Therefore, black went for another double attack Queen g5, double attacking the knight and Knight f5 was the obvious choice and Anderssen Here, g6 could have been a good move to put Instead black decided to attack the bishop Anderssen was quite an aggressive player and He played g4, opening up his Kingside and Most players would avoid taking such a risk, Anyway, Black saved his knight by moving it Now comes another bold move from Andersen. He played rook to g1. It's interesting because he is protecting Maybe he was looking to trap this queen. Anyways, black accepts the sacrifice and takes Then white played h4, attacking the queen. Then queen g6 is the only safe square for Now Andersen goes for h5. Queen g5 again is the only safe square. Now comes queen f3, with the idea of bishop Black had to free up some space for his queen squares for his queen to move. This knight was the only developed piece and position. In terms of development, this is looking dreadful Now white takes this pawn, as expected. Then queen f6 saves the queen and also attacks White plays knight c3, preventing this capture. Black tried bishop c5 attacking the rook, But Anderssen ignores it and plays knight the king and rook. Black decided to take on b2. Now both of Anderssen's rooks are hanging. But he does not care one bit and plays bishop Actually, rook e1 was a better move. But Anderssen makes it exciting by playing This is one of the most crucial moves as far And I believe he made a big mistake here. He captured this rook with his bishop. He desperately needed this bishop to protect The best Move was actually queen a1 check. Followed by king e2, queen b2 and say if white back the bishop with this fork and it looks But Kieseritzky didn't play this. He played bishop g1, and now Anderssen played move of the game. He did not take the bishop, he did not save What He played in the game was the surprising it was a well thought out move. With this e5 Move, he is creating this really Another thing it does is that it blocks off defense. Now Black takes this rook as well. But does that really matter, let's see. It's a check so white moves away his king Now black made another mistake. He played this unusual looking move, knight Seems he was concerned about this knight c7 But that was a blunder because now white is Can you find the winning move continuation Alright, It's an incredible sequence of moves King d8 is the only legal move. And now comes the brilliant queen sacrifice, There is not much that black can do here so And Now if you go by the value of pieces, He sacrificed almost everything apart from But this was all he needed. He struck the final nail in the coffin with What an amazing game this was! Well, Hit the thumbs up if you liked it, subscribe And now let's see if you can solve this puzzle. This was actually one of Vidit Gujrathi's In fact, it is Vidit's birthday today so a Alright, in this position, can you find the Do Share your answers in the comments section Well, don't forget to Like and Subscribe and