Transcriber: Capa Girl So, where do you start when you have a program Well, you start with &quot;why.&quot; Why? And that kicks us off for the first speaker and his talk &quot;Start with why.&quot; Simon Sinek: We assume, even, we know But then how do you explain Or better, how do you explain that seem to defy all of the assumptions? For example: why is Apple so innovative? Year after year, after year, they're more innovative And yet, they're just a computer company. They're just like everyone else. They have the same access the same agencies, the same consultants, Then why is it that they Why is it that Martin Luther King He wasn't the only man who suffered and he certainly wasn't Why him? And why is it that the Wright brothers controlled, powered man flight who were better qualified, and they didn't achieve the Wright brothers beat them to it. There's something else at play here. About three and a half years ago And this discovery on how I thought the world worked, and it even profoundly changed As it turns out, there's a pattern. As it turns out, all the great and inspiring leaders whether it's Apple or Martin Luther King they all think, act and communicate And it's the complete opposite All I did was codify it, and it's probably I call it the golden circle. Why? How? What? This little idea explains why are able to inspire where others aren't. Let me define the terms really quickly. Every single person, knows what they do. Some know how they do it, whether you call it or your proprietary process or your USP. But very, very few people or organizations And by &quot;why&quot; That's a result. By &quot;why&quot; I mean: What's your cause? Why does your organization exist? Well, as a result, the way we communicate It's obvious. We go from the clearest thing But the inspired leaders regardless of their size, all think, act and communicate Let me give you an example. I use Apple because they're easy If Apple were like everyone else, a marketing message from them &quot;We make great computers. They're beautifully designed, Wanna buy one?&quot; And that's how most of us communicate. That's how most marketing is done, and that's how most of us We say what we do, we say and we expect a purchase, a vote, Here's our new law firm. We have the best lawyers we always perform for our clients Here's our new car. it has leather seats, buy our car. Here's how Apple &quot;Everything we do, we believe We believe in thinking differently. The way we challenge is by making our products simple to use and user friendly. We just happen Wanna buy one?&quot; Totally different right? All I did was reverse the order People don't buy what you do People don't buy what you do This explains why every single person is perfectly comfortable But we're also perfectly comfortable or a phone from Apple, But, as I said before, There's nothing that distinguishes them Their competitors are all equally qualified In fact, they tried. A few years ago, Gateway They're eminently qualified They've been making Nobody bought one. Dell came out with MP3 players and PDAs, and they can make perfectly and nobody bought one. In fact, talking about it now, buying an MP3 player from Dell. Why would you buy an MP3 player But we do it every day. People don't buy what you do, The goal is not to do business with everybody The goal is to do business with people Here's the best part: None of what I'm telling you It's all grounded Not psychology, biology. If you look at a cross-section looking from the top down, what you see is the human brain is actually that correlate perfectly Our newest brain, our neocortex, The neocortex is responsible rational and analytical The middle two sections and our limbic brains are responsible like trust and loyalty. It's also responsible for all decision-making, and it has no capacity In other words, when we communicate yes, people can understand vast amounts like features and benefits It just doesn't drive behavior. When we can communicate we're talking directly to the part of the brain and then we allow people with the tangible things we say and do. This is where gut decisions come from. You know, sometimes you can give somebody and they say, &quot;I know what all the facts Why would we use that verb, Because the part of the brain that controls And the best we can muster up is, Or sometimes you say or you're leading with your soul. Well, I hate to break it to you, controlling your behavior. It's all happening here the part of the brain that controls But if you don't know and people respond then how will you ever get people or buy something from you, and want to be a part of Again, the goal is not just to sell to people the goal is to sell to people The goal is not just to hire people it's to hire people who believe I always say that, you know, if you hire people just because they can do a job, but if you hire people they'll work for you And nowhere else is there than with the Wright brothers. Most people don't know And back in the early 20th century, the pursuit of powered man flight Everybody was trying it. And Samuel Pierpont Langley had, to be the recipe for success. I mean, even now, &quot;Why did your product And people always give you of the same three things: under-capitalized, the wrong people, It's always the same three things, Samuel Pierpont Langley was given to figure out this flying machine. Money was no problem. He held a seat at Harvard and was extremely well-connected. He knew all the big minds of the day. He hired the best minds and the market conditions The New York Times followed him and everyone was rooting for Langley. Then how come we've never heard A few hundred miles away Orville and Wilbur Wright, they had none of what we consider They had no money, with the proceeds from not a single person on the Wright brothers' team not even Orville or Wilbur, and The New York Times The difference was, Orville and Wilbur by a purpose, by a belief. They believed that if they could figure out it'll change the course of the world. Samuel Pierpont Langley was different. He wanted to be rich, He was in pursuit of the result. And lo and behold, The people who believed worked with them with The others just worked And they tell stories of how every time they would have to take five sets of parts, because that's how many times they would crash And, eventually, the Wright brothers took flight, and no one was there We found out about it And further proof that Langley The day the Wright brothers took flight, he quit. He could have said, and I will improve upon your technology,&quot; He wasn't first, he didn't get famous so he quit. People don't buy what you do, And if you talk about what you believe, you will attract those But why is it important to attract those Something called and if you don't know the law, The first two and a half percent The next 13 and a half percent The next 34 percent are your late majority and your laggards. The only reason these people is because you can't buy (Laughter) We all sit at various places but what the law of diffusion of innovation is that if you want mass-market success or mass-market acceptance of an idea, you cannot have it until you achieve between 15 and 18 percent market penetration, And I love asking businesses, And they love to tell you, Well, you can trip over We all have about 10 percent That's how we describe them, right? That's like that gut feeling, The problem is: before you're doing business So it's this here, this little gap as Jeffrey Moore calls it, Because, you see, the early majority until someone else And these guys, the innovators they're comfortable making They're more comfortable making that are driven by what they believe and not just what product is available. These are the people to buy an iPhone when you could have just walked and bought one off the shelf. These are the people on flat screen TVs even though the technology And, by the way, they didn't do it because the technology was so great, It's because they wanted to be first. People don't buy what you do, and what you do simply In fact, people will do the things The reason that person bought the iPhone stood in line for six hours, was because of what and how they wanted They were first. People don't buy what you do, So let me give you a famous example, a famous failure and a famous success First, the famous failure. It's a commercial example. As we said before, a second ago, money and the right people Right? Look at TiVo. From the time TiVo came out they are the single highest-quality product hands down, there is no dispute. They were extremely well-funded. Market conditions were fantastic. I mean, we use TiVo as verb. I TiVo stuff on my piece of junk But TiVo's a commercial failure. They've never made money. And when they went IPO, and then plummeted, In fact, I don't think it's even traded above 6, Because you see, they told us all what they had. They said, skips commercials, and memorizes your viewing habits And the cynical majority said, We don't need it. We don't like it. What if they had said, &quot;If you're the kind of person over every aspect of your life, It pauses live TV, skips commercials, People don't buy what you do, And what you do simply serves as Now let me give you a successful example In the summer of 1963, on the mall in Washington They sent out no invitations, How do you do that? Well, Dr. King wasn't the only man in America He wasn't the only man in America In fact, some of his ideas were bad. But he had a gift. He didn't go around telling people He went around and told people &quot;I believe, I believe, I believe,&quot; And people who believed what he believed took his cause, and they made it their own, And some of those people to get the word out to even more people. And lo and behold, on the right day, at the right time How many of them showed up for him? They showed up for themselves. It's what they believed about America that got them to travel to stand in the sun in Washington It's what they believed, 25 percent of the audience was white. Dr. King believed that there are two types those that are made by a higher authority And not until all the laws that are made that are made by the higher authority It just so happened was the perfect thing to help him We followed, not for him, And, by the way, not the &quot;I have a plan&quot; speech. (Laughter) Listen to politicians now, They're not inspiring anybody. Because there are leaders Leaders hold a position but those who lead inspire us. Whether they're individuals or organizations, not because we have to, We follow those who lead, not for them, And it's those who start with &quot;why&quot; to inspire those around them Thank you very much.