Chris Anderson: You were something You had already taught at Harvard And then the NSA came calling. What was that about? Jim Simons: Well the NSA -- they didn't exactly come calling. They had an operation at Princeton, to attack secret codes And I knew that existed. And they had a very good policy, because you could do half your time and at least half your time And they paid a lot. So that was an irresistible pull. So, I went there. CA: You were a code-cracker. JS: I was. CA: Until you got fired. JS: Well, I did get fired. Yes. CA: How come? JS: Well, how come? I got fired because, and the boss of bosses in my organization and wrote a New York Times article, about how we would win in Vietnam. And I didn't like that war, And I wrote a letter to the Times, saying not everyone if anyone remembers that name, And I gave my own views ... CA: Oh, OK. I can see that would -- JS: ... which were different But in the end, nobody said anything. But then, I was 29 years old at this time, and said he was a stringer and he wanted to interview me And I told him, &quot;I'm doing and when the war is over, Then I did the only I told my local boss And he said, &quot;What'd you say?&quot; And I told him what I said. And then he said, He called Taylor; that took 10 minutes. I was fired five minutes after that. CA: OK. JS: But it wasn't bad. CA: It wasn't bad, and stepped up your mathematical career. You started working with this man here. Who is this? JS: Oh, [Shiing-Shen] Chern. Chern was one of the great I had known him when And I had some ideas, and I brought them to him Together, we did this work There it is. CA: It led to you publishing Can you explain at all what that work was? JS: No. (Laughter) JS: I mean, I could (Laughter) CA: How about explaining this? JS: But not many. Not many people. CA: I think you told me so let's start here. JS: Well, it did, it did have something to do with that, that work was good mathematics. I was very happy with it; so was Chern. It even started a little sub-field But, more interestingly, something we knew nothing about -- and I don't think Chern And about 10 years a guy named Ed Witten in Princeton and people in Russia started applying it Today, those things in there have spread through a lot of physics. And it was amazing. We didn't know any physics. It never occurred to me But that's the thing about mathematics -- CA: This is so incredible. So, we've been talking about that may or may not perceive the truth. Somehow, you come up not knowing any physics, discover two decades later to profoundly describe How can that happen? JS: God knows. (Laughter) But there's a famous physicist and he wrote an essay on the unreasonable Somehow, this mathematics, in some sense -- we learn to count, and then it flourishes on its own. But so often it comes General relativity is an example. [Hermann] Minkowski had this geometry, &quot;Hey! It's the very thing So, you never know. It is a mystery. It is a mystery. CA: So, here's a mathematical Tell us about this. JS: Well, that's a ball -- it's a sphere, you know, those squares. What I'm going to show here was the great mathematician, in the 1700s. And it gradually grew to be algebraic topology, geometry. That paper up there had its roots in this. So, here's this thing: it has eight vertices, And if you look at the difference -- you get two. OK, well, two. That's a good number. Here's a different way of doing it -- this has 12 vertices and 30 edges and 20 faces, 20 tiles. And vertices minus edges And in fact, you could do this cover this thing with all kinds and mix them up. And you take vertices minus edges Here's a different shape. This is a torus, or the surface covered by these rectangles, Vertices minus edges comes out to be zero. It'll always come out to zero. Every time you cover a torus or anything like that, So, this is called And it's what's called It's pretty amazing. No matter how you do it, So that was the first sort of thrust, into a subject which is now called CA: And your own work into higher-dimensional theory, higher-dimensional objects, JS: Yes. Well, there were already Pontryagin classes -- There were a bunch I was struggling to work on one of them and model it sort of combinatorially, instead of the way it was typically done, and that led to this work But if it wasn't for Mr. Euler -- who wrote almost 70 volumes of mathematics and had 13 children, who he apparently would dandle on his knee if it wasn't for Mr. Euler, there wouldn't CA: OK, so that's at least given us Let's talk about Renaissance. Because you took that amazing mind you started to become a code-cracker I think you probably didn't buy Somehow you found a way of creating The way it's been explained to me, what's remarkable about what you did it's that you took them compared with other hedge funds. So how on earth did you do this, Jim? JS: I did it by assembling When I started doing trading, I had I was in my late 30s, I started trading and it went very well. I made quite a lot of money I mean, I think it was pure luck. It certainly wasn't mathematical modeling. But in looking at the data, it looks like there's some structure here. And I hired a few mathematicians, just the kind of thing we did back You design an algorithm, Does it work? Doesn't it work? And so on. CA: Can we take a look at this? Because here's a typical graph I look at that, and I say, maybe a slight upward trend How on earth could you trade and see something that wasn't just random? JS: In the old days -- this is commodities or currencies Not necessarily the very light trend And if you decided, OK, by the average move in the past 20 days -- maybe that would be a good prediction, And in fact, years ago, not beautifully, but it would work. You'd make money, you'd lose But this is a year's worth of days, and you'd make a little money It's a very vestigial system. CA: So you would test and see whether, for example, a 10-day trend or a 15-day trend JS: Sure, you would try all those things Trend-following would and it was sort of OK in the '70s. By the '80s, it wasn't. CA: Because everyone could see that. So, how did you stay ahead of the pack? JS: We stayed ahead of the pack shorter-term approaches to some extent. The real thing was to gather and we had to get it by hand We went down to the Federal Reserve and stuff like that, We got a lot of data. And very smart people -- that was the key. I didn't really know how to hire I had hired a few -- some made money, I couldn't make a business out of that. But I did know how to hire scientists, because I have some taste So, that's what we did. And gradually these models and better and better. CA: You're credited with doing which is building this culture, who weren't just hired guns Their motivation was doing JS: Well, I'd hoped that might be true. But some of it was money. CA: They made a lot of money. JS: I can't say that no one came I think a lot of them But they also came CA: What role did machine learning JS: In a certain sense, You look at a lot of data, and you try until you get better and better at it. It doesn't necessarily feed back on itself But it worked. CA: So these different predictive schemes I mean, you looked at everything, right? You looked at the weather, JS: Yes, length of dresses we didn't try. CA: What sort of things? JS: Well, everything. Everything is grist for the mill -- Weather, annual reports, quarterly reports, historic data itself, Whatever there is. We take in terabytes of data a day. And store it away and massage it You're looking for anomalies. You're looking for -- like you said, the efficient market CA: But any one anomaly So, is the secret here to just look and see when they align? JS: Any one anomaly however, if you have enough data You can see an anomaly that's persistent the probability of it being But these things fade after a while; So you have to keep on top CA: A lot of people look and are sort of ... shocked by it, by how much wealth is created there, and how much talent is going into it. Do you have any worries and perhaps the financial Kind of being on a runaway train that's -- I don't know -- How would you champion what's happening JS: I think in the last hedge funds have not done especially well. We've done dandy, but the hedge fund industry as a whole The stock market has been on a roll, and price-earnings ratios have grown. So an awful lot of the wealth let's say, five or six years -- People would ask me, And I'd say, &quot;One and 20.&quot; Which means -- now it's two and 20 -- it's two percent fixed fee Hedge funds are all CA: Rumor has it you charge JS: We charged the highest fees Five and 44, that's what we charge. CA: Five and 44. So five percent flat, You still made your investors JS: We made good returns, yes. People got very mad: I said, &quot;OK, you can withdraw.&quot; But &quot;How can I get more?&quot; (Laughter) But at a certain point, we bought out all the investors CA: But should we worry attracting too much of the world's to work on that, as opposed JS: Well, it's not just mathematical. We hire astronomers and physicists I don't think we should worry It's still a pretty small industry. And in fact, bringing science has improved that world. It's reduced volatility. Spreads are narrower because So I'm not too worried about Einstein CA: You're at a phase in your life now at the other end of the supply chain -- you're actually boosting This is your wife, Marilyn. You're working on Tell me about that. JS: Well, Marilyn started -- there she is up there, she started the foundation I think '94. I claim it was '93, she says it was '94, but it was one of those two years. (Laughter) We started the foundation, She kept the books, and so on. We did not have a vision at that time, which was to focus on math and science, And that's what we've done. Six years ago or so, I left Renaissance So that's what we do. CA: And so Math for America in math teachers around the country, giving them some extra income, And really trying and make that a calling JS: Yeah -- instead of beating up which has created morale problems in particular in math and science, we focus on celebrating the good ones Yeah, we give them extra money, We have 800 math and science teachers as part of a core. There's a great morale among them. They're staying in the field. Next year, it'll be 1,000 of the math and science teachers (Applause) CA: Jim, here's another project Research into origins of life, I guess. What are we looking at here? JS: Well, I'll save that for a second. And then I'll tell you Origins of life is a fascinating question. How did we get here? Well, there are two questions: One is, what is the route how did we get here? And the other question is, What material, if any, Those are two very, The first question is a tortuous path or something like that -- And the other, Well, more than we think. So what's pictured there Now, every year in our Milky Way, about two new stars are created. Don't ask me how, but they're created. And it takes them about a million So, in steady state, there are about two million stars That one is somewhere And there's all this crap dust and stuff. And it'll form probably a solar system, But here's the thing -- in this dust that surrounds a forming star have been found, now, Molecules not just like methane, things that are the building blocks -- So, that may be typical. And it may be typical start off with some of these Now does that mean Maybe. But it's a question from those frail beginnings, And most of those seeds CA: So for you, personally, finding an answer to this question of how did this thing happen, JS: Would love to see. And like to know -- if that path is tortuous enough, that no matter what you start with, But on the other hand, given all this organic dust we could have lots of friends out there. It'd be great to know. CA: Jim, a couple of years ago, and I asked him the secret of his success, and he said taking Listening to you, what I hear you saying that has infused your whole life. It's made you an absolute fortune, in the futures of thousands and thousands Could it be that science actually works? That math actually works? JS: Well, math certainly works. But this has been fun. Working with Marilyn and giving it away CA: I just find it -- that by taking knowledge seriously, So thank you for your amazing life, Thank you. Jim Simons! (Applause)