- Hey everyone, I hope It's Mark Wiens, I'm in and this is one of my favorite because it's such a melting pot. It has so many different that make up Kuala Lumpur and so today we're gonna go on a Malaysian food tour. We're gonna eat a lot of and I hope this video of the diversity and the that you can eat when and so we are on our way. I'm gonna share all the food with you in this video right now. (upbeat world music) We met up with Farul and Anwar. They're from Oh My Media taking us around today on this ultimate Kuala Lumpur street food tour and most of all, we all love to eat. - Yes, correct. - So it's gonna be a very to the first place right now. - Let's go. - Let's go. (speaking in foreign language) - [Mark] Mansion Tea Stall. - Yeah. - So the real name is (chopping sound) (speaking in foreign language) - [Mark] Chicken? - [Chef] Our chicken curry. - [Mark] And this one is Sambal? - [Chef] Sambal. This one does. - [Mark] This one does. Oh, and then the eggs. - [Chef] This egg. (speaking in foreign language) - We got the Roti Canai Special, which they chop it up the Roti. A mess of sauces and oozing all like soaking into that flatbread. It's all components that for breakfast all on one single plate, all mixed together and Let's do it, let's dig in. Break that yoke? - Yeah. - Oh yes, okay. And you gotta kind of pour that-- - Pour that. Oh ho ho, nice, okay. Okay, yes! He knows what he's doing. - It's tempting, right? - [Mark] Scoop out, and just sprinkle it all over everything, coating everything. Oh, that looks awesome. - [Anwar] Just like this. You mix it up. - Oh yeah, popping yokes that never gets old. And then I will just kinda sprinkle... Oh ho, ho, ho, ho! Okay that's good, I'm gonna is this a Sambal? - Yep, it's Sambal. - Sambal, okay, mix that in. Roti Canai Special. - To India. - Oh, oh that's awesome. - Yeah. - That is amazing. You've got the richness of the egg yoke, you've got the bread which is, the Roti which is slightly like chewy because it's been fried in oil before being soaked in sauce. And then you've got the Sambal which is, it's like a little bit sweet - Yeah, a little bit. - And a little bit spicy, yeah? But that might, like that - If you want no more, - Oh, this one is kecap manis? Like a sweet, sweet soy sauce? - Let me dip this. Yeah, kecap manis. - Kecap manis? And that's like a sweet So that's like a total Malaysian touch to the whole thing, adding - It's good, I love leche. - It's great, everything I wanted, wow. - I think what makes mash-up combination, it's just all textures and And for this bite, I'm gonna and kinda re-yolk it. (laughing) (upbeat music) It's almost like, what is Egg in the Basket? - Eggs in a Basket. - You know Eggs in the on a piece of toast, and you put an egg in it? This is like the extreme, ultimate, next-level version of Eggs in a Nest. Yeah, that's a breakfast of and this place they have, it's pretty tall, well not that tall, apartment complex, a mansion complex. The main stall is over here and they have a dining this is like the extended - I'm a big fan of yours. - Thank you very much. Good, nice to meet you. Next, we are on our way to to be the national dish of Malaysia. It's a dish that everybody loves. It's an incredible dish. We're on our way to eat the the next dish. (upbeat world music) And again, something I love so much about Kael, Kuala Lumpur it's a modern city, and yet, there's so many green spaces, and so, we kinda came into this, it's almost like a little mountain park, but we're surrounded by There's a little almost and that's where we are heading. We are here to eat Nasi Lemak, one of the national, Rice cooked with coconut milk. There's a few sides that each stall, each restaurant has curried dishes to include on top. And so this place is They've been around since to come here for a long time, so I'm very happy to finally be here. (speaking in foreign language) Yes, capo, and also maybe the-- (speaking in foreign language) And then the egg. You can dance while you're eating. A live band here, too, to give you the energy you - Yeah. - It's such a wonderful with a band, delicious food on our plates. Nasi Lamak is dish of many components, and one of the most important, the rice, which is made with coconut milk, but then it's your choice of so I got squid curry, I got the cockles, as well as a unique - [Anwar] Curry. - A curried spleen. We all got different plates, your own dishes right. - I choose, yeah, the potato-- - That's like a potato patty? - Begedil. - Begedil. This is extra Sambal, as well. A piece of that squid. (band performing) Oh, yeah. The rice, it's fluffy, but aroma to it, definitely coconut. It's sweet at first, but then it's kind of spicy towards the end of your bite. It tastes like a roasted that it's wrapped up within. Okay, and then rotating my Oh, whoa. That definitely has a It's actually gummy. You feel like almost grassy texture to it. It's almost like a sponge, Really good. I think the cockle is the best. (upbeat world music) Each one of the dishes I think I like the cockles the best, the cockles curry it's fantastic. And it's just balanced And I love the anchovies, they're crispy, they're salty. The live music was fun to dance to as we finished that plate of Nasi Lamak, but yeah, Nasi Lamak, you can eat it at many, many places. It's a dish you do not wanna miss when you're in Malaysia, when Okay, we're moving on Which is one of my favorite (upbeat world music) (speaking in foreign language) Are you having this immediately you can immediately You want some right now? Cempedak jackfruit it's more honey-tasting. So he has a basket of the there to be sit into a batter, And as she's frying that, it's it literally smells like oil fumes. Fried right out of the so you better be careful biting into this. Oh, yeah. That is incredibly hot. Oh, it's amazing. It's crispy, it's so honey sweet. And then the texture is also kind of a little bit stringy, as well. It's gonna taste like a... And then you end up with (live band playing) Steam coming out of my mouth. (steaming) There's about five or along this stretch, and But this one of the best to eat Ikan Bakar, which is grilled fish. And maybe some of the smaller mackerel? In order to make this cooked on a hot skillet, is they take the fish, they which is the chili sauce into the Sambal, then they and stick it onto the hot the banana leaf keeps the flavor and bakes and just simmers and chili sauce all at the same time. It goes up in a cloud of steam and smoke, even if you walk past, if you get a whiff of some of that steam you can feel it in your lungs. Carameling, 'cause I believe Really quick story before we but I came here back in 2012, it's a very old, slightly I am looking for some of some of the best Ikan here in Kuala Lumpur. I remember, there's like a there's this big highway, and there's a overpass over the highway. I had to find my way up to to get to the restaurant, a couple of fences, kinda to get here. I think I have just found I'm excited, I think that is It was no easy mission to get here. I had to run across some highways, I had to jump across some fences. So times have changed gonna be the new and updated version, but this is an Ikan, to all that, it's very special to me, and so I'm very, very happy to be back. Now we got actually four plus the squid, plus some And this is the Stingray Sambal, and this is one of my favorite. If I were to just choose one You can see, if you unwrap it, just flowing, look at that. I'm gonna grab a piece of this first, this has to be the first bite. Oh, it's so meaty! (live band playing) It's such an incredibly meaty, meaty. It's almost like chicken, and then you taste that Sambal, you taste the dry chili and again, just how the keep in all the juices into the fish, as they come Look at that sting ray, it's so stringy. And I'm gonna dip that Okay, next I'll reach into the squid. And for this, I'll dip like a shrimp paste, chili dip. The texture of the squid and then that sauce, the plus it has a wonderful acidity, I think possibly from Calamonte. Next up, I'm gonna try, I and it has a little bit And as soon as you, oh you look at that. Soon as you unravel the and that sauce just caked Oh yeah, it's just oozing and juicy. Reach in for a little I think that's a short head mackerel, or an Indian mackerel. Moving on to the next fish. And I believe this one is a catfish. Just unwrap it, oh ho and juicy and fatty! The juices and the Sambal is just flowing. Look at how oily, oh man, that's awesome! You could actually the oils and juices would just fall out, but I'm not gonna squeeze it for you because I wanna keep those in my bite. (laughing) I think because catfish is such then when it has a chance and just absorb more that even like, enhances it more. And you really taste the Final fish we got here is, - [Anwar] The tilapia. - The tilapia? Which is also cooked in with the Sambal, and this banana leaf is disintegrating on to the Let's get a bite of this. Oh, it's so oily and the story of every single fish. Is it Sambal Belacan? - [Anwar] It's a Belacan. - So it's shrimp-based? - [Anwar] Yeah. - Okay, it's so good. And so yeah, that's at least like three, maybe four or five layers of The diversity of taste from to the banana leaf, to when you take a bite, it's superb. - That fish is definitely it's incredible. Okay, all of the Ikan Bakar is delicious, but nothing can top this sting ray. That is, that's the best. Like if you come here, that's the fish you should go for. And then finally, to this is just the coconut in a cup conveniently with a spoon and straw combo at the top. Oh yeah, that's incredibly and nothing refreshes like (singing in a foreign language) This is just a little food paradise. As soon as he lifts the you just get this poof of I thought the coconut but this, this is the real dessert. The Durian on top with ice cream, I'm gonna try to get like Okay, I got half ice cream, half Dorian. Oh wow! (laughing) It's unbelievably good, mushy and creamy, it's pudding. It's sweet, it has a little and then you've got the which is more like the so you've got cold and combining, it's sensational, it's really and truly sensational. That is a dessert of a lifetime. (band singing) (speaking in a foreign language) - You're welcome. - Thank you very much. - Well come again, have (speaking in a foreign language) - He is the owner, and there's restaurants in Ikar Bakar, but we came to Ikan Bakar (Seri Melaka), yeah, and he's an amazing so this is the spot that was delicous. (speaking in a foreign language) - Welcome to Malaysia. (speaking in a foreign language) - Thank you very much. - Alright, have a great one. - I'm very happy to report here has changed, but the it remains the same, it's incredibly good. This in my opinion is a when you come to Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia. Next place, and I think we have Yes, Indian food. (upbeat music) When I reached out and asked and I was really looking destinations, and so a number we check out this place for which is really like and opens their home as very excited for this next A green gate. It's with the plants outside. And luckily, there's a Green gate at the front, We would not know it is a restaurant here, but it's known as Sri Ganapathi Mess. Potted plants, there's clay pots. Okay, and then you do walk like once you get into the compound. This is awesome. - Hello. - Hello. It really is a home with And they kinda open it so if the first few rooms are mess hall in the back. Do you have the Crab Rasam? - [Chef] Yeah, yeah. - Oh, it's swordfish. Maybe can we have swordfish and vegetable? Mutton curry. - Mutton curry? - Oh, it's like a soup. Should be rice, okay, perfect. Okay, now I'm gonna move back to start digging in. Okay, I think I ordered. - Thank you ma'am, that's beautiful. - Yes, final step before of curry sauce over the curry over the rice. Thank you. One of the reasons that Kuala best cities in the world because of the diversity of foods. This would be very authentic South Indian. You can taste ginger in there. Yeah, oh that's wonderful. A little bit spicy, gingery, very gingery. Oh and then the spice Onions have a little bit Let me try some of that swordfish. And this is always one And people really enjoy getting it all evenly coated on the rice. - Yeah. - It's almost like shredded but in a good way. I'm not sure if it's mustard seed, there might be cumin seed in there, too. I'm gonna follow that with a in a cup because you're it's like a beverage, it's like a soup. Cheers. - Actually drink it. - Ah, that's delicious. - Yeah, you can taste that-- - It tastes like the shells of crab that's just been boiled down. But you taste the crab, herbal-ness of it? (upbeat music) Oh yeah, you can taste You can taste the goatiness of it. This layer is delicious, yeah. That's awesome, especially (groaning) The vegetable has a That crab consomme is it tastes very light, but at the back of your throat Uh-huh, really good, real really good. This is what its all come The final driplets of curry sauce. The final meat juices. The final veg. That was just an ultra-satisfying meal. I'm gonna have to surrender quite a lot of food, so all you do is, you just fold over your banana leaf. - Thank you very much. - Yeah. - Thank you very much. - Take care, man. - Just the front of a it's not stand-out, you but just in the green gate, just goes back further and further, and they just keep opening as it gets busier. Such a cool restaurant, South Indian food. - I am the owner of public shop. - Oh, thank you very much! What's your name? - Pumar, I'm ex-police detective. - Oh, awesome! Food was incredibly good. - I like it, thank you, thank you. - A few friends recommended it to me. - Okay. (upbeat music) - For our final stop on this Kuala Lumpur Malaysian food tour, we are in Chinatown, and we're gonna go to a to eat a certain dish. But a number of people it looks incredibly delicious, and this is gonna be the final dish. This is what's gonna wrap it up, and again we are going to see just how diverse the food is in Malaysia. This is a fully Chinese food court, four or five different stalls different Chinese dishes to order. And then just communal seating tables. One of the most famous things to eat here, and maybe one of the to eat in Chinatown is the Clam Bee Hoon. So it's noodles on the bottom, with a clam broth gravy over noodles, I came here to eat, what I just ordered. (sizzling) It was very nice that them as they made the It took about five minutes, he took some oil, he and then he threw in a and he really just the aromatic aroma of the He tossed in a bunch of and then, I believe he tossed because I got kind of that wine aroma that came out of the soup. Then they just quickly blanched and then combined, he put them onto the top of the noodles, and then put all the soup on top. It's very aromatic, it smells incredible, again, this is a very unique dish. Man, the dish is called Clam Mee Hoon. Yeah, the first thing to do (groaning and laughter) That's like ultimate comfort. But as it goes down, you going down your throat. It has this complexity of the wine, the ginger, the garlic in there. That's really what's it's just that slight, it I'm not totally sure. But it's so... It's slightly thickened, (groaning) And those noodles, they're rice noodles. Yeah, the noodles just kinda They're soft, they're thin, and they just sort of absorb that broth. Where's my spoon, I'm gonna refill my clam shell with that broth. (slurping) Making it hard to get all Yeah, those are shells until you get all, every and every drip of broth out of it. (upbeat music) Oh, that's a broth of wonders. They're doing a little bit but we have come to the Malaysian food tour. It's been an incredible day, and I probably mention this that I ever take, and every you can eat authentic Malay authentic Chinese food, after another, it's just really is a melting pot, that's the mix of cultures, food, people. I wanna say a huge thank for taking us around, they're so friendly, so hospitable, they're amazing guys. And I'll have their information and their company linked Most of the restaurants on when I reached out to you on social media, so thank you for all of your Kuala Lumpur food recommendations. I wanna say a huge thank Please remember to give it a leave a comment below, and if your not already and also click that little bell icon so that you get notified of Thanks again for watching, I will see you on the next video.