There's nothing quite as simultaneously the aggressive communities... the weaponized we're looking at the darker sides of the most STEVEN UNIVERSE: The "popular means bad" effect A few years ago, Steven Universe was the main the Steven Universe fandom had committed the being cringe. Of course, the whole idea of talking about the fandom or the show itself, you could to be labeled as such in the mid-2000s. Quirky sense of humor? Double check. A very There are few things that made you less cool in a Steven Universe fan, but the main reason we the fans in particular. Rather, it's because of a phenomenon I like to call the "popular=bad" or critique a show-not by any means-but Steven both sides were to prove themselves right. A was airing. As a result, alongside those there were plenty who just outright hated the a strong desire to have a "controversial" there's a 2-hour video essay on YouTube on how there's a THREE-hour video essay Oh, you thought we were exaggerating? No, there's, like...a LOT of these. Like The fact is, if a show is popular, it won't be happened with Steven Universe, and it's happened for a more recent example. Hey not every But if you thought that good old relatively-innocent kids' show on this BLUEY: On the cusp of disaster Now, the Bluey fandom is unique in it's been around than most of the others but given its extreme popularity it's one of the few series that's been is especially impressive for a show targeted at and there are many adults on the internet who help heal their inner child with the wholesome So why on earth is it on this list? albeit maybe a little childish. Which, when it comes to the internet, the the more certain "people" on the Sometimes, this comes in the form of people while that's not exactly nice, it's toxicity goes. (You're still not cool if you reminder that even a show as innocent fanfictions that depict some of the most Sadly, this is a prime example of a fandom that's destroyed by a few sick individuals. Even the brave enough to explore this fandom's creepiest SOME of it out of the public eye...thanks for that, just want to innocently enjoy a cutesy cartoon, depravity that this show is meant for children, for this reason that we here at WickedBinge grave danger of becoming the next Brony fandom. mostly positive-if a bit silly-but we're raising SPLATOON: The Danger of Online Gaming Most Nintendo fandoms are at least Kirby and Metroid are pleasant, but what fun, endearing games that you can play by gaming gets competitive...well, that's when the wonder of Nintendo with the competitiveness Now, this entry is going to be unique, aspect of a toxic fandom-namely "that" kind of you examples of-we're entering it into community. More specifically, Splatoon This video essay by Kiwi Tapes-highly recommended, Splatoon player of all time. Now, you might look more you look at this guy, the more you realize a salty place in general, but Putz is less salty whole playlist of this guy's rage compilations looking to raise your blood pressure just by much worse literal children are at this game than We're actively trying to be as nice as possible this guy verbally abused a little girl who subbed we don't feel bad at all for saying this guy Book Guy from The Simpsons. Really, though, why Nintendo doesn't offer an official voice parents wouldn't want their kids being screeched losing a game of Splatoon. Really, consider this fandom. There are a lot of streamers and games seen one quite like this guy, whose rage is of compilations of his anger on YouTube. The same RICK AND MORTY: It takes a fairly low IQ Okay, now let's move back into lighthearted stuff. and it was this HUGE pop-culture icon hated it all of a sudden? Yeah, this kind effect...but this time, the fans Thankfully, Rick and Morty is nowhere near fits more squarely into good old-fashioned cringe ...or hilarious public freakouts... There's more than enough to justify why wasn't the show itself they disliked. Popularity you can bet that it'll make their reputation wreaking havoc over the McDonald's Szechuan fandom rose-and while they've mostly quelled, FIVE NIGHTS AT FREDDY'S: The classic toxic fandom Scott Cawthon's success story is one of from the creator of mediocre(but animations and flash games to one of the most all time is QUITE the leap-on top of all that, held a decent reputation. People love the ...so, uh. We can probably assume that the fandom wanting to bang his haunted animatronics "I know you're exaggerating, but Few fandoms have reached the sheer fandom holds. From fan games to fan art FNAF is basically unavoidable. This goes one phenomenon and moves more into "get out of But, really, this is one of the very few reputation improved over time. I worthy stuff coming from it...but nostalgic feelings for the games in general. just like discussing it-it's only natural that ...But what if we told you that time is completely THE AMAZING DIGITAL CIRCUS: "Oh...oh, no" You guys remember those weird Youtube Elsa and Spiderman doing some really weird a platform" kinds of stuff? subjects and thumbnails combined with Sadly, these are still around today, and even at least) isn't safe from it. Gooseworx has of absolutely revolting "content"(using that The sad part is, Gooseworx has gone on record farms have affected the show's reputation, done about it-and as Caine said, it's only gonna we can at least make fun of it viciously, "JAX Abandoned RAGATHA To Marry POMNI" "LOVE STORY: PREGNANT POMNI And, uh...man, these are worse than I would be fine, but...I'm gonna go grab a shower. MY HERO ACADEMIA: A few villains spoil the bunch Okay, this is basically gonna be the umbrella general, but few have reached quite the heights It's a shame because, as someone who likes the just wanna look at cool fan art, collect and all that good stuff. That's how many But while there are many who use their quirks is just a few using it for evil to spoil the all the blame can be summed up in just one word. ever been a fan of anything: shippers. Take, for you could be enjoying some cool fanart or a comic of the class just hanging out...only downright unsettling amount of ships between hero, villain, it doesn't matter-if they have there's at least one fan Even aside from the full-on there are still some plain old cringeworthy the fans sort of just...completely butcher the character, Deku, for instance-in the series, he's determined to fulfill his role as the top hero's construed as either a femboy or a...racist? Really Really, the MHA fandom stands out even among dark side gets. It's everywhere from hilarious tell from how far in we are, it's about to SUPER SMASH BROS.: This is Who doesn't love some good old Super Smash beginning or just jumped on the hype train with franchises around. Like Splatoon, it appeals to just play by yourself or with some buddies, you...also can! It seems like this is a totally https://www.reddit.com/r/smashbros/comments/hjfv0y/summary_of_sexual_and_nonsexual_allegations/ Okay, so, um...how to say this without getting the competitive Smash Bros. community is less of zone. Basically, think the bad side of the MHA really-Smash Bros. is one of those few gender, culture, et cetera can get together (ALLEGEDLY) creepy people out there, it of the fun out of it for those of us who just UNDERTALE: Gen Z, get ready to relive our trauma If those first few seconds didn't give you lucky. When Undertale came out in 2015, it was like many indie games do, it took the internet by one on steroids. You know how we called the in comparison, makes it look like the Like, seriously-Undertale fans in the game's someone in the game as bad, if not worse, because some of y'all sure butchered some of these on Google images without at least several pieces the ships...oh GOD, the ships. Heck, almost all of On that note...Undertale fans went one step beyond steps beyond. There were a multitude of alternate popular as the game itself-leading to new art, see, there was-just off the top of my head... and personalities with their closest counterparts Storyshift-a more creative one where but switch roles in the story versions of the main characters. Like, And COUNTLESS more. But on the bright SONIC THE HEDGEHOG: No....not them...anyone but them bell...run. Run. RUN WHILE YOU STILL ....okay, so...yeah, the Sonic fandom is weird. by this point, mind you. It's got the the obsessive fans, the what-have-you. But It's genuinely hard to tell and what's genuine. You can see fan art of Sonic "chilled dogs," and genuinely wonder whether this Or like "Sonic Says The South Will Rise Again" And when it comes to the X rated fan art... From like a weapon of mass destruction... But you I mean you guy's designed a bat with You bare responsibility for this stuff. I spends his time staring out over But if there's one reason Sonic it would be the notorious figures one of the most documented human beings obsessive fan who made cringeworthy comics to a and that Sonichu is real and will invade our can come from a series that can be summarized as MY LITTLE PONY: FRIENDSHIP IS MAGIC: Alright, we've done our best to be sparing most of this video. But I'm saying right now: And we'll lead into this section by saying a show about talking ponies that's made for if you want to use this community-again, express your disturbing carnal desires for There's truly never been a more famous example of creepy adults ruining something And it's really not just about adults liking adult male subculture being turned on by And then infesting conventions where children are. And lacking any ability to read social Now, I'm not saying every brony is like Now, I have to warn you. I watched and the amount of cringe I took years off my life... So I'm going to This is a Brony at a My Little Pony Q&amp;A asking the I think if there's one thing it's that kids should be protected from the dark there's already enough people But we've pretty much hit all the right? Well...there's one more to consider. THE LOUD HOUSE: Checking every Gore. Incest. Predatory behavior. In small doses, fandom-or at least, hear some horror stories with how simple its show is, the only parts of the fandom that really stick out are the bad First of all...man, there is a lot of why people are so fixated on seeing Lincoln but...whatever you wanna predict But surely that's as bad as it gets. Take sure...but what happens when the show's ensemble entirely underage? Surely, the internet and I don't even have to finish From f*tish art of these literal kids of all-full grown adults shipping The Loud House's fandom makes the average in comparison. I mean, one of the longest a Loud House fanfiction called "The Loud House: piece about a guy age-regressing The sheer amount of unhealthily obsessed adults are kids in it, and that's really the reason