["There are around 1022 stars in the universe, and Upon reflection, this statement seems a little ages, humanity has wondered at the idea of exist? Where are they? Are they like us? Would or would they be completely alien to us? Before you ask; no, I've not been read in into any been hiding the truth from the general population. imaginations when it comes to alien life. There is and deductive reasoning, even though I assume So, are we alone in the I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching going to share with you everything I know about When it comes to searching for alien life relevant question.] What do we mean by life? sizes. From the tallest trees to the smallest or humans, our planet is teeming with life. we say "a living thing". We might define Generally speaking, scientists define life as any excreting, breathing, moving, growing, reproducing they are aware of their surroundings in those resources into themselves, and use them they get rid of any waste that's left over. Ew. others, but even things like plants can or spread out their roots over time. So, we Even on Earth, though, there are some systems like to be a living thing. Viruses are so simple, that or to metabolise. Instead, they get cells viruses alive? They certainly have proved things, and we can definitely think of still rages on in the scientific community. are fairly universal for living things here about defining life. For instance, most living It carries important nutrients around our Earth that we consider the absence of water to have it. But if an alien was somehow able its body instead of water, would that stop So, let's keep an open mind, but roughly seek out resources, grow and reproduce. definition general (just in case), we can actually when it comes to alien life. Scientists and may have imagined all manner of living things; and even aliens made out of pure energy. All which may sound speculative, but renowned say] he wasn't opposed to the idea. (clip). How do we know? It's all thanks to one As you look down at your own body, even if an incredible example of optimisation. You likely thumbs, ideal for grasping tools and performing system that is capable of taking in matter, or repair yourself. You have legs for locomotion. pump 2.5 billion times across your lifetime body perform specific functions, that have been they do (even if you don't feel it sometimes). Thanks to natural selection and random mutation, When Charles Darwin was voyaging through the finches had different shaped beaks. After the finches with larger, more heavy-set beaks ate daintier beaks. In fact, a large beak was ideally while the smaller beaks were more suited to insects. This observation was the basis In this theory, thanks to genetic variation and things to see what works. And there are certain to all the light that was bouncing around take advantage of this by developing sight had a could find food better, or avoid predators, So useful is sight, that nature did not just independently about 40 times over the course previously could not see evolved eyes. and eyes are not the only example of it and yet both developed wings to fly. And speaking evolved echolocation, to help them see in Photosynthesis has arisen dozens of times. Koalas This happens because there are some selective that lives needs to gain nutrients, grow, bending its roots around rocks to find softer way of getting what it needs. Because of the And when something works, nature This means that on planets that are similar evolution would end up going a similar way. might not look exactly like us, they might look looked silly that so many aliens in sci-fi films a way of easing pressure on the film's costume actually happen. If it worked with us, maybe to the stars would need to have the ability to would be a likely addition to an alien race. Large problem-solving would also be a benefit. The on earth, with 86 billion neurons. It's not Thanks to our brains, it became less important craft clothes for ourselves, so aliens may not be Of course, this kind of logic might not arise on a planet that's exactly the same pressures, different adaptations might occur. and animals would be able to grow to be much cost to lifting nutrients up through their bodies, kinds of systems). While conversely, on a planet shorter, heavier-built aliens. Their bones would gravity. Or possibly they would be aquatic, On a planet that is further out from its so an alien's eyes might be bigger. Or maybe like echolocation to see what is around seasonal temperatures would vary much more wildly. in the ability to hibernate, or even come back incredible ability to return to animation after depths of space. Temperature can also affect size, deep-sea gigantism, as large bodies can more animals have a larger mass-to-surface-area ratio, On a planet with fewer magnetic fields, more have shorter life-spans, in much the same way as power-plant, dogs and other short-lived organisms In each case, form follows function. Life will Extremophiles are life forms that are able are lots of different kinds of extremophiles extreme conditions like very high or very low salinity, acidity, and heavy metals, or any These organisms span the globe, inhabiting the springs in Japan, to the Atacama desert in and even a hypersaline deep lake in Antarctica . unique biology. As you can imagine, living you to get creative. Extremophiles' modified in very clever ways to help them makes them an astrobiological goldmine. Earth are surprisingly similar to the These regions on Earth are called analogues, might find life beyond our home planet. America is a very arid environment, with and oxidizing soil, just like Mars. In fact, we've Life has been found across the Atacama desert, this is good news. It helps scientists life to appear where it does, and therefore where Certain species of our haloarchaea are also models. Specifically, Halobacterium NRC-1 and extremophiles that thrive in high salinity, potential life on icy, salty moons like Europa. is plausible for life out in the wider universe. analogues here on Earth, those same sorts of We also learn what's less plausible. Life to all sorts of niches, but there are some places kandleri - one of our hardiest extremophiles - one into thousands-of-degrees lava would quickly structures together would be torn apart by the the freezing cold of space, they're not exactly and only revive when brought back into So, if not all environments are equally likely the most likely for enabling a fledgling alien might put an end to an alien evolutionary When choosing [a nursery world for alien life], to start by establishing your non-negotiables. for instance, temperature. You want a nice, and not too hot. Given that temperature every planetary system has a sweet spot where right" - not too hot, and not too cold - similar As a rough rule of thumb if a planet is at the suitable temperature for [aliens] to set up shop. all, Venus - a planet residing in this zone - atmosphere makes it the hottest planet in our from the Sun compared with Mercury. So it's [Essential for life on Earth, and likely useful prospective planet. Water comes with some It's a solvent, allowing a wide array of molecules around an organism's body. It's important for possible that alien organisms have learned to make of their own lifeblood, so important is water to of an organism that's learned to make do without or sunlight, or particular kinds of food - evolutionary history when organisms adapted not a single one figured out how to do without However, sometimes a non-negotiable is simply the [another] major reason why [many of] the galaxy's Our own star is known as a G-type yellow dwarf, a at least compared to some of the other options 10 billion years before their cores collapse and and that stability has been useful for the yellow dwarfs are far from common in the Milky Way more common in occurrence are the longer-lived our galaxy, and can live for around 14 trillion And unfortunately for the planets orbiting For starters, red dwarfs have a much closer They burn less brightly - with luminosities our Sun's - so unless [aliens] live on a world and depressing to me, and will make [getting [an alien world would probably need] to be This wouldn't be in and of itself a characteristic of red dwarfs that make them Our Sun is the main source of our space weather. flares, and coronal mass ejections. However, weather created by red dwarfs. Flares from red than those emitted by our Sun. The frequent bursts powerful and dangerous enough to strip away the in the habitable zone. And given how much closer the odds of life getting enough time to arise of x-rays is pretty slim. If you want you'll likely need some serious sun-cream. astronomer favourite Kepler 186 f, which But even during periods between harsh problem with planets around red dwarfs Being tidally locked means that the same side of There is no rotation between day and night - and the other side is in permanent shadow. near their sun have a tendency towards being with its days that last 176 Earth-days, rotation could render most of the planet desert-creating heat on the day side, Even if [aliens] tried to live in the narrow planet, liquid water might prove difficult its way to the night side of the planet would the planet would be very dry; and even in [But the real clincher is] the low power found on a tidally locked planet. The dynamo is thought to be influenced by the Coriolis momentum to rising and falling liquid metal in field would be inevitably weaker, [once again So, we can conclude that if alien life being around stars much like our own due be on a world that's not too hot or too cold, surrounded by a protective magnetic field to We don't have to look out across the but can actually begin our search for in our own solar system. It may seem a little Could it have done so again? hospitable.] Mercury does not tick many boxes to form. It has a very tenuous atmosphere, and means that temperatures on the day side rise to minus 170c. It has been discovered that Mercury eruption was thought to be one billion years ago. Mercury's history that would most likely have is water ice to be found in the permanently dark that only liquid water can support life. Mercury The next place to visit is Venus. Venus does have is that it still isn't quite far enough away [although it's kind of right on the border of it]. well over 400c all over the planet. This is carbon dioxide making up 96% of it. This liquid form on the surface. There is a slight form of microorganisms high in the clouds of an energy source. The temperature and pressure than on the surface, so this possibility exists. in Venus' atmosphere. Phosphine is a gas that's very low-oxygen environment. Either there's similar thing, or it's an indicator that similar [We're skipping Earth, for obvious reasons. into the debate about whether any of it is alien... Moving on, one of the best bets in the solar goldilocks zone, and has an atmosphere. The big field. The magnetic field on Earth prevents particles in the upper atmosphere. Because been stripped of all but the heaviest molecules, At one point in its history it did have surface and lake beds. However, today that water has gone most likely gone too. Scientists have been keen and looking for methane in the atmosphere with the far found only traces of evidence. But NASA are Mars is now one of their primary objectives, so of finding something. There are a few tell-tale on Mars. There are possible bio signatures like of life. Scientists can't quite agree on where life is a definite possibility. We also have 34 highly valuable as they are the only samples from even contain what looks to be fossilised bacteria, terrestrial bacteria on Earth. This is not formations can be explained by natural processes. possible places to find life on Mars. One would be in liquid form this far down, and any life radiation. Another theory is that microorganisms evidence of this could be the darkening of these darkening could be these microorganisms, as they surface. With all the attention Mars is getting guess we will know conclusively whether or not The first planet after Mars is Jupiter. life [as] we know it. It barely has any form and the winds and convection forces on the tried to form in the tops of the cloud layer. The and heat increases. The chances are very slim However, Jupiter has some moons The biggest of Jupiter's moons, called have differentiated interiors. Smaller moons and like a rock. However bigger moons will often have moons, Europa, is actually one of the most likely but not on its surface. The crust of Europa looks all over. The crust is actually made of water to be a liquid water ocean that spans the entire rotation of the crust, which is thought to have if the crust and core were solidly attached. has only just been confirmed in the old Galileo plumes or geysers shooting water far into space the Hubble team suspected they might have and this rediscovered Galileo data has confirmed intriguing that there will be a dedicated "Europa 2024]. The Europa Clipper will orbit Europa, water that is ejected. We are not expecting to but the water samples will tell us what the really is a possibility of life down there. Future this ocean are still in the planning stages. place to habour life around Jupiter; it is not liquid ocean layer. Three out of the four biggest all could have life under their surfaces. Callisto Ganymede has at least one water ocean layer, sheets of ice. Ganymede is probably the as the bottom most water layer could be touching factor for life to exist as the rock provides that have formed around oceanic hydrothermal the biggest moon in the solar system, but data also be the largest. There is a European Space known as JUICE, or the Jupiter Icy Moons Explorer, Beyond Jupiter, there are three more planets are very unlikely to contain life. However, some with the moons of Jupiter. Particular moons of Titania, the largest moon of Uranus, Oberon, the largest moon of Neptune. The most exciting moon a moon of Saturn. It has extremely active water into space per second at over 2,000kph. It around Saturn called the E ring. Cassini, was able to pass through these water plumes, and all key components of life. There is definitely be seen in this heat map. These are the tiger's activity, water, and essential chemicals mean place in the whole solar system to find life. there are some plans to return to Enceladus, these set to explore Jupiter's Icy Moons from above have still a [very] long way off. I can understand the moon, but it's a little disheartening to think we Beyond the planets and their moons, we have they follow the patterns we see in the larger under their surface. But we are very far There are just two more curious places to look for largest moon of Saturn. It is extremely cold, and it is unusual from any other moon in the solar methane in it. In fact, the temperature is just The moon actually has a methane cycle similar to lakes, and rivers of methane and ethane on the life also exist there, including chemicals and mostly within Saturn's magnetic field, which means Theoretically, lifeforms could exist that replace creatures would take in H2 in place of O2, react methane instead of carbon dioxide. Titan has been launching a robotic rotorcraft to Titan, set to lakes and spots something splashing around there, question of alien life sooner than we thought.] life is on comets. A long standing through the galaxy on the backs of comets, Numerous missions have been conducted [to comets], missions, like ESA's Rosetta mission, rather on the comets surface. Compounds like nucleic and and life. However, none of these missions to detect life, meaning we still don't know found on comets. I should note though, that while there is still a massive gulf between organic Scientists just don't think that a comet or for life as we know it to develop, for instance, the Sun. [Perhaps comets could be the universe's unlikely that they're a place life could start. in the Solar System where life could have formed that life did form in any of them. give us any more room to hope? You may have heard many news stories about been discovered using the Kepler has confirmed the existence of 2778 planets. exoplanets in any kind of detail. In fact, this is taken by ESO's very large telescope. Which may exoplanet we have, how can we discover exoplanets, To answer the first question, we have to have space probe which constantly monitored about its camera. The field of view [focused] on a This is what Kepler [could] see. The data it see if any stars [dimmed] periodically. You [passed] in front of Kepler's view, the star once every 100 days, we [could] confirm that it Kepler [was] really good at finding exoplanets. the exoplanets we knew about. As you can of Jupiter. Since Kepler came into operation, of thousands of exoplanets, with thousands more which have been discovered in only this patch Kepler's [mission ended in October 2018]. However finding spacecraft called TESS which [came into area in the sky 400 times larger than the Kepler will be able to find more than 20,000 exoplanets! can hypothesise there are more than 100 Using other telescopes, like Hubble, [ESO's Space telescopes], these exoplanets can particularly of their atmospheres. The way that is light. To give you an example of how this is done, producing what is actually a blend of colours shooting through an atmosphere produces a similar present. This indicates there is a certain light in that wavelength, not allowing it to pass spectrum looks like as sunlight passes through the as well as water vapour, carbon dioxide and at these wavelengths. Looking at a section of in the solar system, sulphur compounds can clearly apparent. This means that as we study exoplanets search for atmospheres that resemble our own. If a habitable world and also that it may already those home to intelligent life] could have which would be seen in a planets spectrum. Well, out of the thousands of exoplanets that have rocky planets [that] sit in the "goldilocks" zone, [Of course, this doesn't mean that they're evidence to be able to confirm that an of these exoplanets for certain. evidence of that starting to come in. Biosignatures are substances, signals or activity. This could be something or something more subtle like the composition of they indicate not only the potential presence There's no official classification system about them falling into three categories - Gaseous biosignatures are direct or indirect manifestation of this is the composition of of haze could be an indirect byproduct of a particular planet hosts microbial life similar to before the Great Oxidation Event. It's similar free oxygen in the atmosphere could be a Temporal biosignatures are time-bound activity. For example, on Earth, the concentration falls with the seasons. Vegetation grows This oscillation is way stronger in the northern it has more land mass. In theory, we can use this life is most likely to be. However, nothing can be caused by abiotic factors, too. most interesting. Basically, every planet reflects the surface of the planet will reflect different results in a unique reflectance spectrum for snow, water and soil can all be deduced from the reflectance spectra of a planet. This [In September of 2023, just a few months JWST provided a tantalising result - the exoplanet's atmosphere. Dimethyl sulfide (DMS) is mostly by phytoplankton in marine environments. of K2-18 b, an exoplanet with a hydrogen-rich an ocean. K2-18b is 124 light years away from us. for certain. It's still possible that the DMS familiar with. But while that's true, to worth investigating. It's one thing to say It's another to say "aliens exist, and Perhaps we should take a step back. One of the alien life is just how unlikely it sounds. Is expect alien life to have arisen in our galaxy? And although so far we've focused on just and simple organisms - some scientists have also How likely is it that we'll Once an alien race has evolved to the unless it came into being through some it probably did so through out-competing its its offspring. Civilisations made up of such for space and resources. Whether they gain these it is most likely that they will want them. [As this applies to cultures and civilisations too]. energy and resources led soviet astrophysicist scale for classifying the different kinds of He grouped civilisations into three kinds. the energy available on their planet. We have so we are roughly a 0.7 on Kardashev's scale. from their star, possibly by building a giant capture and utilise all of its energy output. the entire energy output of its galaxy. We have as this one, which is for the best, as we see bacteria - mildly interesting, but Other scientists since Kardashev have proposed use all the energy in the universe, type 5s or even the enigmatic Type omega, capable of perhaps existing outside of time entirely. Such would have no way of detecting them, because the way they wanted it to, and we would have While this may seem like a bleak outlook for under this theory we would almost certainly end or just getting steamrolled by a vastly higher for alien development too. After all, not all In fact, with the advent of the internet interaction is taking place in virtual spaces. races based on how many unique pieces Although much harder for us to detect at a this way of gauging advancement does not require race that started looking internally, or even one of cyberspace could still learn more and more taking less and less space within that universe. where we were at about a type J civilisation, as in 1973. While I haven't been able to find out in the comments if you know), we are probably as a comparison, a Z type civilisation would exists in the whole universe, so it's unlikely While it's true that we have not met an know that it's entirely plausible there would be and even find relatable. Form follows function. mastery of our world. Perhaps one day, if we meet rather than seeing something truly alien, it I'll leave it to you to decide whether [But to get to that level of intelligence], go right. [And if we are to also discover them in To [recap, for them to even get started] they near as we can tell, life cannot exist without them. They would [likely have competed] thus encouraging them to adapt and progress. In skills and intelligence as a way of gaining Their civilisation would then have to survive to a freak meteor strike or earthquake or destroy themselves. They would have to invest in technology that allowed them to reach out across to talk to any potential neighbours as opposed would have to broadcast a signal out to us for All of this is by no means certain. However, as Frank Drake in the first SETI (Search for all of this could be used to calculate He laid all this out in his famous Drake Equation: on a very clever and logical idea. Using the many students are in a school by calculating how start of each year, and then multiplying that by reasoned that the way of calculating the number of emissions are detectable could be calculated, other steps happened. Let's break it down. races are out there for us to see or hear. This R* is the rate of formation of stars suitable for year. Not all stars are very suitable for life or generally too unstable. We need to know how fp is the fraction of those stars with planets. system, with atmospheres and material compositions or are completely devoid of atmosphere form there, based on our own planet's example. that could support life actually do support life. life becomes intelligent that life advances enough technologically to And finally, L is the length of time If you combine all of these elements, alien civilisations we would be able Of course, you might have noticed a drawback simply not known by us. But, where's the fun the numbers that scientists currently believe to of my own along the way, we will attempt that any of my numbers seem unreasonable, So, with that, let's see how many expect to see out in the night sky. with reasonable certainty. Scientists looking how many stars form every year, as we have many the number ranges from between 3 and 7. Fp is easy to solve too. Through recent space telescope, it's become apparent that with each star on average having one. So, let's However, the number that we currently predict as well as having the ideal mix of elements that Of the 100 billion planets in the [Milky Way this category. Obviously, this does not account from us, but let's discount them for the moment This gives us a percentage chance of 0.3% - quite system is suitable for life. So, 0.003 for ne. is where things get a little tricky. For we have only one example to draw on - life on on Mars or Ganymede, for all the conjecture on two ways. As near as we can tell from the fossil life came into being, which might indicate a high But on the other hand, from what we know, Which is to say, life formed on this planet from risen up again since. Scientists have looked for come into being, but so far haven't found any. multiple times, but the life that arose first formed simple bacteria into extinction. Still, it million to one. Let's go with the more pessimistic We encounter the same problem for the arising animals displaying forms of intelligence. Octopi and apes can use tools or even use sign language. always evolves into becoming more intelligent. we could also accurately say that of all the Earth, only 1 actually was intelligent enough very low for it happening. Let's once again again to just be pessimistic. [fi=0.0001%] advanced enough to start communicating, I Although we only have one species to compare unintentionally chatty with the universe, quite we are altering the chemical composition of race could detect, certain molecules in our man-made. We also send signals out into space Sometimes we even send signals out into the stars was broadcast from Earth in 1974, and contained expressly so any aliens that heard it could not travel far on the grand cosmological indistinguishable from background radiation, I'm going to predict this number as high. Let's Finally, how long do civilisations survive? a single example. We will not know how long by which point there will be no-one left to there are numerous dangers that could end us as a or even solar flares, the longer we are able go on surviving. This is because once humanity to a species-threatening catastrophe. If we are on longer threaten the survival of our species. If would no longer be able to get all of us. Species in this way, lasting for potentially billions of range. Let's be optimistic and use this figure. Based on these assumptions, If civilisations lived for a trillion years (which we'd still be at 0 for these values. Given another civilisation is next to non-existent. estimate. If we instead assumed that life arising certain too, our final answer for even a 1000 that comes to an answer of 9 in our galaxy. Nine right now trying to communicate with us. And immortality to the point where their civilisations as many as 9,450,000 in our galaxy. Or more! very interesting. Putting the numbers through the magical and exciting even. According to the Drake or absolutely teeming with alien life. If it ourselves for a long, lonely existence. We because we are all the life we are ever going to say hello. [We also have an even greater as there likely won't be any more to replace it.] filled to bursting with alien races, getting [This was the question first asked by in his famous "Fermi Paradox". But as I'm about to this question ranging from the plausible, to the for why we might not have discovered aliens yet.] room. Maybe there's no-one to see. If it was true non-living materials, or if it's unlikely that we have done, then it's entirely possible that simply because there are no aliens. We could All other planets could be desolate and empty. across the universe and discover all these empty whatever we brought with us from Earth. possibility - there is no conclusive evidence to that exists for why the sky isn't full of constrained by a surprising natural limitation. civilisation, one of two things needs to happen. civilisation and then have them send a message have made the first overture, messaging us this - for instance, we might be sending using unmanned probes - but there are significant Sending a spaceship is a tricky business. At the it will take potentially millions their destination. The Voyager 2 probe took The nearest star is 4 light years away. years to get even there, or about 2,700 human aliens as our closest next-door neighbours. improve, it takes colossal energy to accelerate it would take more energy than exists in the Mass just does not like to travel at those able to come up with some kind of workaround, most civilisations is to send them radio signals. speed cap will one day be broken. Scientists have moving the space around you in warp bubbles rather light limit only applies to movement within a moving, you're fine. We have actual examples of in one of my other videos [Black holes part 5]. just go with the fact that it's much easier to easier and cheaper to send light or radio waves lightbulb. So let's assume that this is how Even here, however, we hit a roadblock. Radio travelling at relativistic speeds - it's after all. However, that's its limit - light faster than that, and this in turn limits Any signal from us would need to travel out and then even if they decided to respond all the way back. If they decided to respond. invented the radio in the mid 1890s, so we have As such, we would only be able to exchange light years away from us - 60 years for a civilisation, and 60 years for it to come back. so the 60 light-year bubble we could [So, another answer to Fermi is long enough for aliens to message us back.] aliens contact us first. After all, we are now has been travelling for 13 billion years, from civilization came into being around 2 billion that means they now have a 2 billion light-year A 10 billion-year-old civilization now has a 10 billion light years away and only 9 billion years [So, why haven't we heard from these aliens on a faulty assumption - that there haven't There have been signals. Although while didn't recognise them for what they were.] there is some ambiguity as to what exactly alien. We are not quite sure what to expect conditions different to our own, and may well have but are completely obscure to us. Their definition be very different from ours. Researchers looking to remain very open-minded about what an But that means such signals can get confused with understand yet. How can we tell the difference? 1961, in their pursuit of evidence (which is worth noting because it opens researchers at Ohio State University finished work the size of three football pitches, and worked on it captured signals using its large "mirror" "mirrors" on the other into two receivers in the may notice that these capture dishes are just because Big Ear was a radio telescope. It The way Big Ear worked meant that it was more rotate in any direction. Big Ear could only tilt that it was somewhat limited to only listening one time. This was cheaper and easier to design. get around Big Ear's limitations - they built the rotation of the planet would be what turned it and with its tiltable reflector adjusting it towards [almost] any point in the night sky if Big Ear's direction of attention would sweep listening out to try to spot any unusual signals And sure enough, in 1977, Big Ear found something. of radio waves came in that were 30 times more in the background chatter of the universe. It was found it wrote "Wow!" on the computer printout of the "Wow Signal". It was incredibly uniform. back down again in a smooth motion, instead of the cosmic radiation. This indicated that whatever kind of like the beam of a lighthouse sweeping out and then turning away again. to Big Ear's design, researchers had to wait ear moved to look at that particular patch when they got there, the signal had vanished. time to time, we have never heard another to this day. So, what was it? A fault in the threw out a momentary burst of signals? Or [We currently don't know.] candidate. The somewhat mouthier SHGb02+14a. Ozma - was started in 1960 by Frank Drake, it communicate with the rest of the universe, they behind this was that this was the frequency widespread elements in the universe. Aliens civilisations might use such a frequency as a holds a special significance to any race. This made SHGb02+14a of interest later. Because this video, for the lack of a punchier name - did SHG was spotted on three separate occasions computational power of 5.2 million home computers program that sadly is no longer running. SHG had and didn't appear to be interference. whether it was clearly technological or not. It came from a spot devoid of stars up And although it experienced drift, it did so If a signal originates from a planet, then infer. A signal being broadcast from a planet above it - would likely experience some doppler to coming towards us through the circular be moments where it dropped out of view While SHG did indeed experience fluctuation in per second - this would only come from a planet which seemed high. It was also strange that no matter where it had been when it had last odds of you looking at an orbiting transmitter on it starting off at the exact same location is this to make sense. [So, although this observation of glitch in the technology, examples like For an example that might be aliens or might fast radio bursts. If an alien civilisation were on their part. Powerful engines activating, or that give away a galactic civilisation. Which They are, just as the name suggests, very fast of these strange, millisecond-long bursts across be thousands of them occurring every single day. but one was detected within the Milky Way in They seem to be coming from extremely powerful no clear idea about what their origin might be. emitted by neutron stars, or maybe black holes. over another - including that of alien technology. and simply didn't recognise them. this idea even further. Some individuals have but have visited our planet directly, and it.] Here, sadly, the evidence starts to get faked videos filmed on grainy, shaky cams, or or satellites are taken for UFOs, that many such theories. There have even supposedly been subtly propagated UFO conspiracy stories to technological projects, like the stealth bomber. to these phenomena is often factually we do not understand something does not mean we [Still, it only has to be proven once for our find it intriguing that so many governments of UFO's in the last few years. In just the last have held hearings on UAPs, or "Unidentified not cynically swatting away the topic, or having a an issue congressmen are claiming to be a matter being tasked with coming up with explanations on them. And so, if governments and scientists behind all the smoke, let's take a moment to do an alien civilisation's efforts to visit us?] an American businessman named Kenneth Arnold Arnold claims he saw nine crescent shaped silver hour through the air. He likened them to "saucers initially thought they might be secret military crescent craft wondered if they might have been his turn of phrase about the saucers, and the consciousness. Before long, other people The US became enraptured with the idea of UFOs. quite so seriously. While initially they were aircraft moving around in their airspace, the programs they set up to investigate UFOs were the last of these programs, collected 12,618 UFO almost all misidentifications of natural phenomena report to go on, the US Government officially into UFO sightings officially ceased. findings, a certain degree of stigma became to have done so was often ridiculed or considered If aliens were real, and were visiting our Of course, to answer that, we need to define Let's imagine that a person came up to you shoot across the sky at a speed far faster you consider a single person's account to be not necessarily. Human memory is unreliable. Even question enough to believe that they weren't lying or maybe had misjudged how fast the "spaceship" "Ah," they cry, "but I recorded it on film!" provide is grainy, and only gives you a blurry Again, you might well be sceptical. Even if this to fake films these days), it could be a digital it still could just be some natural or man-made So, what would be a good proof of I would like evidence that was seen by multiple, would need to be recorded by multiple pieces of glitchy technology. And it would have to evidence any man-made phenomenon or natural event. Best of it would provide more opportunities Which brings us to the event that and the USS Nimitz. The Navy aircraft carrier California in November on a routine training Princeton had recently received upgrades to aircraft in the area. These crafts descended before vanishing out of sight entirely or later the Princeton called the Nimitz, asking them Two F/A-18F Super Hornet jets were but no weapons as this was only meant to be on board. Upon arriving at the scene, all four A strange tic-tac shaped object was moving boiling patch of water in the sea below No wings. No rotors. It was about the The object suddenly stopped its zig-zag. and travelled up towards the jets, as if but then rapidly accelerated away, faster Baffled by what they'd witnessed, only for the radio operator to inform them that it was now over 60 km away. It had got there [To be clear, we have no jet or technology this. There is no natural phenomenon that we it did things human technology can't do.] professional pilots on the clock [who have aircraft cameras and modern, advanced ship-based advanced nations in the world. This ticks many of This report was logged, and nothing else was to this being a strange story, if it wasn't for confirmed by the US government in [To me, that's what makes this story compelling. it's easy to come up with any number including the fact that they might be lying. But event did indeed happen, and say they want to know But the strangest thing about The phenomenon is currently repeating. strange objects in the sky so frequently, occurrence. Many were embarrassed to mention it became so common that the Navy started handing their cockpits about what to do in the event 144 reports came in from Navy personnel of seeing observed by multiple sensors, 11 accounts of near identified. Between 2021 and 2022, sensing that the Navy began destigmatising reporting and record what they saw. 247 new reports came in, to have happened in the past. Sure enough, that's unidentified objects had risen to 510. Their natures, and probably their origins, varied. radio signals coming to and from them... only, they on the market was capable of doing. Some were exhibiting unheard of acceleration. Some could will. Some acted like balloons, albeit with sometimes defying wind currents by remaining No doubt, of those 510, some will simply be in the sky is thought to not really be that shape. is thought to be distorting the light from this but uniquely tailored to this technology. However, what these "drones" were doing circling a US Navy The Navy started calling these objects in the hopes of removing negative connotations recently to Unidentified Anomalous Phenomena. is alien in origin they're also not ruling it out. hearing on the 17th May 2021, and now are reports for the general public about the ongoing much about classified sources or technologies they to simply collect as much data as possible, And that right there is the biggest shift of out to the wider community to ask "What are confirms that there is something to see. seems likely from our evaluations earlier that that it does, and no proof that it's here. It does a question that as we continue searching for What do we do if we find it? could come here, what would we do? If it was far answer to the question of whether we are alone. and indeed more advanced than us, and knew about then? Suddenly, this all becomes a bit more real. important question. What will Let's consider.] We are the only instance of The great human experiment of civilisation and has produced many different types of society and theocratical, to name just a few. If we civilisations, we need to consider societies. when considering how aliens might behave. we know for a fact that either aliens do not If they exist in our galaxy, they're not flashy. if - they are not making a big deal about it. might tip us off as to their existence, and death beams or waving flags to say a friendly Broadly speaking,] let's examine two great alien civilisation. These two extremes are We'll start with violence. it is sadly one we must consider, because as different groups of humans have almost always idea that competition always occurs when there are are organisms, and we need resources to live. has been fought over resources. Agricultural land. can produce. Oil. Gold. Even when a civilisation this issue will still likely exist. After and there certainly seems to be no shortage So, with a sample size of exactly 1, we that other alien races [if they exist] resources to support an ever-growing population. even more reasons why clashes might occur. For The cold war was largely fought between countries capitalism and communism, that threatened each from us ideologically (in fact, it would be they might feel their ideology is threatened in This is not even to mention the fact that deeming themselves of worth only when they are Spartan hoplites. Others seek to build empires, from others than it is to build it yourself. an intelligent race that has mastered its and likely feels good about doing so. But if this leads to conflict, what might an alien We currently lack the technology to move objects throughout space, unless we intend to just throw actual fighting cannot be achieved until we manage something faster than that. But it is possible And this instantly opens a dangerous possibility. up to the speed of light, because of the something has, the more "mass" it has, because need to increase its speed further. This only but it does mean that you'd theoretically need light. But if you throw an asteroid-sized object energy gets released in one go. This kind of and the people on it wouldn't even see it coming. impact potential of objects such as this. For us, need nukes, or soldiers on the ground, to fight an This opens up one possible answer to the Fermi of them proved to be willing to do this, maybe the to communicate. Letting another race know that your back. After all, if you could both do this, trust you not to strike first? They could see Known as the Dark Forest theory, this possible aliens out there are silent simply because they these kinds of planet-buster weapons. Like hunters they are all either quiet, or dead. They However, this is not the only plausible model of aliens. The second option is simply indifference: it might not be the case that we are other forms of life that might be out there. they regard us as dispassionately as we might an have nothing interesting to say. Why do you not gap is too great. You understand what they want you. Communication would be frankly, pointless. universe. If they desire resources, and are that our planet specifically. We may have value flourish simply because they have decided we have cosmic zoo. And as any zookeeper will tell look like an animal's natural habitat, While they may not care about us, perhaps they natural habitat. In fairness, this is a valid it very distressing to learn that we are and that our very existence depends on the mild Of course, if this was true, we would need to to live and let live when I found ants in my I quickly got out the ant-killer. We Both of these ideas about alien behaviour are alternative to hatred and indifference. And for higher-levels of society. Cooperation. life competes. Packs of wolves can cooperate to group even as they attack those outside it. There working together and spanning entire countries, of the same colony. Aggressive to and even self-sacrificing towards those within. well aware. We would not have gotten anywhere Knowledge pooled allows the creation of all kinds to build a computer from scratch. But there are other people who know how to build a screen, resources. And all these people know that the Historically speaking, there is compelling have become better at this kind of cooperative were localised into small tribes, fighting other kingdoms, then big ones, then whole countries Following that to its natural conclusion, at some world feel a part of. A unified planet Earth. violence? Simply put, technology forces it. Not more advanced our communication gets, but as there simply isn't an alternative except annihilation, of course, but that's a pretty And so, it's possible that aliens might they behave towards the universe at large? initially, ultimately, they may have attempted alien races as brothers and sisters, part of a of the trend. With potentially millions of years them, they may actually abhor fighting, and there all cooperating peacefully under one banner. Well, perhaps they prefer to let us learn our own before speaking to us. An aggressive race would until we learn to get along, advanced alien races technology. Particularly if such toys could then that we will either figure out how to get along, in the meantime it is better they stay hands-off. a child something is not enough for a is the only effective teacher. out there, just waiting to welcome us. make with all this? I hope that over the course of while we've not found aliens definitively, out there somewhere. As such, as long as humans it'll find us or we'll find it; it's almost could happen tomorrow, or a million years from to make a choice about how we wish to proceed. hope that we can share knowledge and discoveries, prosperity, and mutual respect and cooperation. taught me anything, it's that much of the hunt mirror. Aliens could be a lot like us. And the our spacecraft down into the atmosphere of an at us in awe and fear. So, what will we do then? that interaction. Because if in that moment or even exterminate, then more alien eyes could actions. They may one day be assessing us, whether And they could be much more powerful than us. day. But if we hope for a good outcome after first we wish to meet. Rather than choosing violence and altruism, no matter how difficult it might be to After all, we hope that they will do the same.] Thanks for watching. Are you as convinced as me that alien life is out there? Or are you almost as A big thanks to my members and patrons If you want to support the future production of Astrum find the links in the description. this video has seen hundreds of hours of work put with what we made. If you did like it, please help me know you want more videos like these going