Search carefully for me. Don't leave anything behind. What are you going to do? Why are you going to rummage through things? What are you going to do? Really nothing. We have already told you that we don't know what the flyers are. Little girl, be patient. We will have the results soon. Stop it. Teacher Jin , Teacher Jin, Teacher Jin, what are you going to do ? You are their teacher . I suspect that your students are printing and distributing leaflets without authorization to confuse the people. We don't have you. You are talking nonsense. Open the box . What nonsense is this? Pull it away. Stop it. Stop it. Teacher Jin, Teacher Jin, Miss Wang, hahaha, Teacher Jin, Miss Wang , Teacher Wang, hahaha , Miss Wang, hahaha, Miss Wang, who are you ? Be careful where you put the gun. I'm so scared. Don't be afraid. Don't be afraid. The teacher will protect you. I will do my best just now . The patrols around here are preparing to hide our place. Music classroom , music classroom cabinet, take us out of the way. Someone come up. You two, hurry up and hide in. Mr. Jin, the space here is too small. There is no way we can take the two of us. Go in first and then we can think of other options . Teacher Jin, hurry up. You both remember to hide inside and don't come out. Don't make any noise. Remember? Did you report that the corpses of the three armies and five armies were found? The murderer is nowhere to be found . Eight Ga Ba Ga Hey, the two teams are so lax in reporting. Has anyone noticed that there is no 8 Ge Yalu ? The murderer must be cured this time. He must report the murderer and open the way for the murderer. My love, Xiaoxin, take the students away quickly, Teacher Jiang. Teacher Jiang, hurry up. They are out, hurry up. Go quickly and find those female students for me . Hey, what are you going to do? He hasn't packed up yet. Come on, I'll help you. He's going to take him away. What are you going to do? What are you going to do? What are you going to do? Let me go. Grab him and be honest . Move and arrest them all . Be honest. Huiren Girls' School. How did you two get injured ? Your soldiers died in your group sentry a few days ago. Is it related to you? I don't know . We don't know anything. Brother, thief, it's useless to take him away. Hey , let's go . Let me go. You can't catch me. Let me go . Why are you catching me ? Why are you arresting me? Let me go. Let me go. Why are you catching me? Let me go. Let me go. Why should you catch me and let go ? Xu Jie and the others have been discovered. I have to save them. Listen to me, don't be impulsive. Leave this matter to me. Do n't worry , trust me. I will definitely bring them back intact. Go back to school. Oh , here. If you want to put on a good show, you need to open your eyes. How can you treat two female students like this ? Yes, they are still children . You Japanese are simply beasts. Better than beasts. Better than beasts, why don't you hold on? These two female students are suspected of harming us. Three warriors of the Japanese Empire. I want them to pay the price today. Isn't it just death? I am not afraid of death. My compatriots, as long as we unite, we will drive these Japanese devils out of China sooner or later. Shut up, shut up. Brother , I told you to shut up today. It's your death day . Bring the gasoline. Gasoline , get out of the way . Get out of the way . Hey, even the students are not spared. It 's too no one. It's so cruel. Yeah, stop it. Stop it . Hahahahahaha . I don't know what's wrong with your dick. I don't know. He probably can't come. Do n't wait for him anymore. Hit them from four directions. Start quickly and catch them off guard. Be careful not to hurt innocent people. When you shoot, be careful not to hurt innocent people. Where is your home? I know you are Japanese. Japan . Sablo , Sisablo , Sapporo . Chinese. I'm sending you back home. Please tell me who this is from the Tianze Bureau. Hello, I'm Hou Tianze, the team leader of the first hall. I'm in a meeting. He asks you to go to the prison for epidemic prevention first. He'll be here soon . Please go through the door and open it. I'll go in and spray the door. Hey, spray it. Tian Ziju, I'm sorry . Please take off all their masks and clean them up. Hey, Xiao Tang, you are too suspicious. Come on, come on. It's a big jump. These Japanese pigs want to compete with Lao Ou for their wisdom . Haha, little Japanese. Sure enough, the forest must be transported away, haha. I admire Lao Ou more and more. The team leader did not find any weapons. The personnel also verified that they were indeed staff from the Defense Department. The troops quickly sent heavy troops to reinforce the convoy of Class 160. Hey, hold on. Are you okay? It's okay, hurry up and go out, Liu Changjun , stay. The epidemic cannot be ignored. If anyone shows symptoms, please inform me as soon as possible. Don't worry , if anything happens, I will come to you immediately. Today, Mr. Tianze, I give you a piece of advice. Junjie, who knows the current affairs, said You have to know the current affairs well . Farewell to Junjing. Pay attention to taking your car. I tried my best. I know you are taking you. Hurry up and give him the savior. He is finally fast. Leave me alone. Pay attention. Hurry up. What are you doing outside? Lock it up. Pay attention. It's okay. Don't worry about it. I'm leaving quickly. I'm bringing you back to Linzi. We won't abandon you. Come on, Mr. Lin, you have been wronged these days. Is there water? Mine , Mr. Li, I'm waiting for your answer. If I tell you, can you ensure that I and my family leave China safely? Don't worry, I will report it directly to the General Staff and send you to take your family to Japan . Team, back up, stop, put down Xiao Tang. If you want to survive, don't do any tricks and move forward. Mr. Lin, you can't run away. Even if you can't run away, I will treat you as my whole life. You calm down first and I will let you meet someone. After you meet someone, It's not too late for you to leave . What tricks did you play to bring people here? Brother Leizita, why are you here? What's wrong with their class? Come on, walk on. As long as you can get out alive, I'll be relieved. Let me go, brother. Wake up . If you cause trouble, your own brother will be killed. Is this what you Chinese call justice? Stop talking nonsense and let my brother go. Genius, you are too naive. The lives of our Japanese soldiers belong to the Japanese Empire. Death is a compliment given to us by the Emperor. It is a pity. Your brother is just an ordinary person. Did you hear me when I asked you to let him go ? Did I say let him go? Load the gun . I counted to three and immediately shot and let him go. My brother heard me? Did he let me go? Leizi, please leave me alone. Please leave quickly. Mr. Yun, please go quickly. 3 Mr. Lin , I think we can start cooperating . What a touching scene. Cat, I'm sorry . Don't say so much anymore. We have to find a way to leave here quickly. Zhou Yu unlocks the door and waits a moment . Mr. Yu, I ask you how you are doing. The one who found this is Yunlan, who told us . You really betrayed us. Yunlan, you have to believe me. I'm sorry, brother , but Xiaotong caught my brother and threatened me with my brother's life. That's why I made this move . You can't just watch my brother die, haha, old, did you hear that ? He betrayed several of our brothers for his brother. What kind of person is Yu Lao Lingzi? We have been together for such a long time, what should you think in your heart? Before it became clear , Reiko told me that this room is the best surveillance point if the club is targeted , so every time he goes to the club, he will use binoculars to look at this room to ensure everyone's safety. Even if Reiko lured the devil here today, I will I believe that is the best way to devote himself in his situation. Stop talking so much nonsense. Check the guns and ammunition. Zhong Yu is good at unlocking. It makes sense . Hey, Lin Zi , what do you think of me? Look at you and me. You still don't understand who I am. It's not that you always say it's better to be careful. Are you sorry? Sir , we just searched again and indeed found nothing about those people. Are there any other findings? Report to the team leader. They found a weapon in the arsenal over there. Brother , they are on the opposite side . Come on , come on , come on , come on, don't let me go, come on, come on , little Toichiro knows our identity, what should we do this time ? Go, I know the Japanese are out in force this time. Please use this opportunity to fight with them. Haha, let that kid see it. Seeing how powerful our brothers are, I heard Xiaoye's Xiaoye think about it . Come on , guys, stand up and take it away for me. The captain's target is Koto Ichiro. Don't let him escape. Don't worry. I'll send him off in person on the next day. Go back to your hometown and rush out. The sound of us . How many bullets are there ? I'm almost out of them. You're dead. If you don't have any bullets, okay, okay, okay. Wife, who asked you to come? Don't bring this thing. What the hell is going on? Oh, don't ask. Hurry up and go home. You have to explain it clearly to me today. I can't forgive you. OK, OK . I will explain it clearly to you. He is not a wife. Now, stay here. Don't move. You guys, hurry up and kill him. Go home, one less head , chop him off. Can you go quickly, go quickly, go quickly, go, go , go, go, go, go, dragon, oh , what i did what i did, ah , ah, I don't have any bullets anymore. I don't have unlimited bullets in this pack. I use this. I can really hide and blow you up, go away, Ou Tianze, I have always wanted to be a true friend with you , but it's a pity that you made the wrong choice, don't die, Lisa, Lisa, go away quickly , Linzi Linzi Linzi Linzi Linzi In this life, I listen to what you say and I will kill you together. The devils have no choice but Aaron, my brother, please take care of you. Don't worry . Linzi Linzi Linzi's grandson beats his brother to avenge you. Yeah sex. Where is Lin Bai's brother? Tell me, Ou Tianze, you are about to experience the feeling of life being worse than death. Watching helplessly It doesn't feel good to have your beloved woman blown into powder. What did you say? What did you say? You listened to the school performance and it was about to begin. What wonderful music? What did you do to Kingman? There are a lot of snowy mountains there . More importantly, the students. Where is our respected music teacher Jinman? What did you do to Jinman? Happy, your Jinman , and the brother who understands. You are Teacher Jinman, right? I am the leader of our Xiaoteng team. This generous gift to you and the students is not bad, right? You are Kotoichiro's subordinate. That's exactly what you want to do. Don't move. As long as you cooperate with our work, I won't let you die. Hey, why are there so many people today? Hey, let's go, don't worry. It's not far from school. I 'll definitely have time to walk around. Hey, brothers , wait for me, you guys, China. The ignorance of people is really shocking. The ferocity of you Japanese people also surprises me. This is a school full of unarmed students . You actually put a bomb on an innocent person. Mr. Jin, Boss Lin is your burial companion. If you want to blame me, blame me. Who among you made Ou Tianze like you? What does this have to do with Ou Tianze? Ou Tianze is a thorn in the side of your clan leader , so the woman he likes must die. Is there any clan leader who will let him taste the taste of death? You are really beasts and not as good as me. You can die , but you want to kill Lin Sir, let it go. Brother Li, don't be nervous. I'm a hot bomb. It's about to explode. You go quickly. Don't worry. We have a way. Don't move your body. How about it ? Lao Wang, this bomb is very powerful. If it explodes, the whole school will be razed. I want to find a way to level the ground. I can only try Brother Lin. Don't move your body. Don't be nervous. Have you seen the meridians? Where are the meridians ? Let him go. Hou Tianze tells your friend to listen to the police. Otherwise, I will beat him to death immediately. Hurry up and make him stop. Come down and be careful not to check first. There are only 2 minutes left. What you want to do is very simple. You can bring a bomb to explode. Tianze, don't worry about me and kill him. Hurry up and defuse the bomb. Tianze sacrificed so many lives for me. It's not worth it . Only one point left. Half done , hurry up, do it quickly, old man, tell me whether you are dead or alive. Jade second brother, I will accompany your grandson. Don't run away. Brother , please calm down. Koto Ichiro is already dead. Is this worth it? What kind of clan leader is dead ? I'm an imperial soldier. How can I just live an ignoble existence? Calm down, Dragon. You only have one minute left. Swallow , I beg you. Do it quickly or it will be too late. This Japanese soldier, you hear that he is a woman and has nothing to do with these things. Let him lie down. I'm going to drop a quick-disposable bomb. Can't you hurry up and leave ? I want to stay . Listen to me and leave quickly. The bomb may explode at any time. I'm not afraid of Zhu Yi. What's going on? This bomb is very strange. There are several projects. I really can't determine what has been causing trouble for a long time. You kid is blind. I'm thinking about it. Is it okay? I can't come. Just say a few words and let's go . Leave me alone . Go quickly. Don't move. You are Lin Bai's eldest brother and the eldest brother of all of us. We will always be with you. I wish you to grow old soon. Now I still have two arrows left. I'm really not sure which one it is. There are 10 seconds left. What should I do? It's a big deal. We all die together . Oops , my God. I'm scared to death. Haha. It's okay. Quickly dismantle it. Quickly dismantle it. Come on . Let's go. Come on, come on, come on, come on , come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on , come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on , come on, come on, come on , come on, come on, come on, come on. Take off your shoes , don't let him take them off, take them off quickly, OK, OK, I'll smoke you to death, I'm so ugly. Put them on, put them on, hahaha, what is this? This is a box of fine Cuban cigars, specially provided by the hotel. Only VIPs are treated like this . Come in, right? Why are you so careless ? I'm sorry. What 's going on ? The waiter accidentally knocked something over. Get out of here. Hey , why are you so careful when you go out? I'm sorry . I'm sorry . I'm sorry. Look, this is Cuba. The best cigars can only be enjoyed by VIPs. Li Laoer gave it to everyone. Open it and smell it. It smells very good. I'm sorry for causing you trouble . Ouch, what's going on ? Why is this cigar made of iron ? Are you okay? Come on , comrades, please kill me under the knife. I beg you, please . I have some top-secret information to report to you . Can you help me keep it? Director Wang, if he wants to save his life, I have to look at this top-secret information from you. Is it important enough ? Absolutely enough. Recently, the special envoy of the Emperor of Japan is coming to Peiping. He is here to create public opinion in the Wenfu Mansion in North China and seek autonomy . Also, if they want to plan the town of Xijing, they must invite people from Shanghai to announce the plan. The royal family is about to die. Even though they have spoken well, they are still talking nonsense. No, no, everything I said is the truth. If there is half a lie, God will strike with thunder and blast them away. There are Japanese soldiers outside who want to board. Shopkeeper Ichiro , are there any other passages here ? There are Japanese soldiers behind here. They are already surrounded. Yu Lao Er , what are you doing ? This actor must have betrayed us. Yu Lao Er, don't be impulsive, okay? You nerds don't know this place. Only our brothers know how the Japanese would have arrived so quickly if someone hadn't leaked the news. Use your brain. If he is a spy, why is it necessary? Run and join everyone. Put down the gun and shoot. Be careful. The first organization is Lao Wang and us. We have been surrounded . Bullets follow me. Concentrate your firepower and rush out. The only way out now is to escape from the high building. Two, one, strong. You two meet up on the roof of the attic island. Let's cover immediately. Get all the corpses of those killers out. Go around and fuck them all. These soldiers of yours are so incompetent that they are useless. You should strengthen their training and use the usual tricks of the Japanese. Are you being a rogue ? Tian Zijun, with your cowardice and mine today , maybe I can let you go , but I'm afraid my subordinates won't agree to move away. Don't touch Tian Zijun. Your move is also very indiscriminate. Get out of the way . This is called treating others as they are. He's a human being. Besides , considering our friendship, you should give me a ride. Stand aside, monkeys . Don't move . I'll blow him up. Why are you following me? There's no room in this car. If you still want to see your team leader. Go back and let them retire and join the army. I'm afraid you have to become a driver with me. Open the door to the driver's seat and walk away quickly . People have seen ghosts. After a while, Mrs. Kung will disappear. Go back . Chen Siqi's gift has been given. This great gift has been given. The weight must be enough, don't worry. Lao Wang is definitely high. What is this? Someone sent a box of snacks to the team leader. If the team leader is not here, I will hand it over to him. Away , oh yeah, why did it explode? Why did it explode? Instructor, someone sent you a package. We thought it was a box of snacks , but we didn't expect it to be a time bomb. You are the bomb sent to me, Aite. What are you going to do ? You are so fierce. What are you using directly? Hey , wipe the gun for me. All the visitors rushed in to distribute the Japanese hehe report . The body of your adjutant was found near the special envoy's residence. No matter what , he was shot to death. He was shot to death indiscriminately in front of the special envoy's residence. No one is waiting for us to go to the black official in the expedition. Love love love love. North Korea didn't watch it. What kind of bullshit is the special envoy of the Emperor? I think you are bullshit. Lei Ye, look carefully and move quickly. There was such a big movement just now. It is estimated that the situation is coming soon. Look carefully. You two are looking around . Oh, no, such an important thing. You said this bullshit special envoy cannot carry it with you. Take it with you , just keep it like this, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up , hahaha , let go, open the door , go , it's inside, don't move in the forest , you must hold on, we have to leave here quickly, okay, okay, leave me alone, I'm dragging you down, go, shut up. Even if everyone dies here, I won't leave you alone. No matter if one of your equipment dies or two of you forcefully walk away, shut up and play . Lin Zi withdrew. Hey , Lin Zi. Lin Zi, are you okay ? Just tell him to hold on. We still have to drink sorghum to go back and forth to Shanghai. Where is the wine? Lin Zi didn't say anything . Ah , what should I do? It seems like someone is chasing him and beating him. Who? I didn't expect the car to be like this. Hurry up and evacuate. It 's okay. Everyone, evacuate. Some comrades, hurry up and open fire. You are Xiao Wu , the shopkeeper. Let me tell you that you have been exposed. Move quickly. Did you hear what I said? Why are you a fool? Hey, there is a fight. Pay attention, haha. Let me guess right. Who is so weird? Protect the forest and slowly jump back to cover. My heart, are you okay ? Why is it this little girl again? Protect the center of the forest and carefully cover me. Yu'er hit that flour bag and bring it over.