For 5,000 years, the burning sands of the Iraqi desert It preserves traces of the founders the Sumerians. Our world owes them everything. The Sumerians invented They divided time into seconds and minutes. They tame nature and build the arts. Their caravans cross Their stories inspired our memory. They wrote the And yet, Four thousand years ago, this For a long time, its The sands of the archaeologists the secrets A river came out to water the garden. From there it flowed in four branches. The name of the first is Piso, The second river is called Gihon, the third the fourth Euphrates. The eternal God placed man in the Garden of Eden to cultivate and preserve. Southern Iraq, Silence covers the The thermometer reads almost fifty degrees. The climate here has hardly changed for thousands of years. However, this is Between the Mediterranean and the Persian Gulf, The historian Polybius land between 2 rivers Euphrates and Tigris, in In the mid-nineteenth century, what was known about the Ancient East was what the Bible. French and British and the discoveries were astonishing. An unsuspected past Mesopotamia had thus been the cradle of a civilization. But what made these And how do you explain the development of civilization in this part of the world? We must realize the exceptional nature Syro-Mesopotamian, which did not come to light until a century and a half ago, The discovery of the Syro-Mesopotamian civilization, a century and a half ago, revealed a very diversified and social unknown to us. Greek civilization, but we discovered something The history of the Syro-Mesopotamian civilization corresponds to the area Syro-Mesopotamian geographic area, that is, the area drained by the two rivers, the Tigris and Euphrates. But it is not just about water for life, for culture, for people, but also for transportation. And these are areas where have become transport routes. And in a country like Mesopotamia, with agricultural production, but with fundamental deficiencies: lack of wood, stone, metal ores when bronze or copper is needed. In such a country, the river will become the preferred transport hub different and complementary. Our journey begins in The Tigris and Euphrates rivers originate here. The streams, fed by the snow of the plateaus, flow down with force, dragging silt from the mountains. Their courses meander parallel for form the Arab chapel. Below, in the The waters subside, depositing fresh, fertile soil along their course. towards the Persian Gulf. The Euphrates and the Tigris, allies and In spring, devastating floods How did man manage to settle The investigation takes us to In the narrow streets of the city, Visitors soak up The crowd swallows them up In the souk, Iraqis show their the Sumerians are no longer around. Fruits and vegetables from the stalls, In the gentle coolness of The traveler finds Iraq and the yoghurt made by the Mesopotamians. On every corner there are clay jars on the surface of the jar evaporates, Sumerian invention from five thousand years ago. But who were these Sumerians? And where do they come from? It is on the fertile plateaus of Mesopotamia, where archaeologists They discovered the expansion of populations and civilization. Spelt, or wild wheat, grows naturally throughout eastern Turkey. This particularly rich region Rich region and passage of great migrations, Inhabited since ancient times. The hunter-gatherer tribes They found here the The Kurdish people preserve thousand-year-old traditions. Women prepare food every day Sashi Ekmegi, a cake In nineteen fifty-eight, archaeologists unearthed, the ruins of a nine-thousand-year-old village. 3,500 years before Sumeria, people Without producing pottery, the inhabitants They built houses with earth walls One day, nine thousand years ago, These pebble dwellers made Around 1500 BC, the Euphrates hills, entering Syria, were covered of a wild grass that allowed novel. When they discovered that this could not only be used, but also preserved, became essential, as it allowed them to have months, instead of looking for food a few days after hunting. From that point on, Conditions changed, and realizing this resource, people decided settle near it. Of course, very precise time of year, It cannot be transported. Once harvested, preventing Sedentarization occurs precise reason: to preserve a reserve of a specific moment. Here the human mind of accidental discoveries, but repeats exceptional discoveries phenomena until we understand them, by itself, to go beyond and achieve To control your environment, The first farmers were inventive. They modernized work, improved their to humanity the Cereals were the main source The alabaster vase, over 1 m long, shows It expresses religious fervor. The sculptor of wheat and sheep. Humans, bearers of offerings, goddess of heaven and earth. There, the high priest receives them in his finest clothes. Thanks to this mastery of agriculture, The population grew and the first groups along the rivers, to the great Mesopotamian plain. Improving yields was the This tablet shows a cart Thanks to a funnel, the seeds were furrows dug in the earth. The secret of the Sumerians lies in the art of 5,000 years ago, a fragile balance To accomplish this feat, the Sumerians kilometers of drainage channels, reservoirs and dams. Irrigation was the cornerstone of their civilization. They mastered the unpredictable flows natural power. As a reward for their efforts, the hectares, produced miraculous harvests. and barley was harvested twice a year. Oasis of millions of palm trees stretched The same landscapes are found in merge to form a single river, the Chatel-Arabe. An agricultural province that Only ships can penetrate This is where the Sumerians The way of life and the method have not changed, as the bas-reliefs attest. The hut rests on a floor The floor, ceilings and walls Tied together with unfailing strength 5,000 years ago, the of Ur were home to more than fishermen and farmers. A whole town lived here, conquering meter by meter an immense They said to one another, &quot;Come, let us make bricks and burn them in the fire,&quot; and the bricks served as stone They said, &quot;Let us build a city In front of the remains of the city of Ur, The first archaeologists Before your eyes the remains of houses, granaries and temples. urban complex housed Meanwhile, in the West, people The Mesopotamians shaped the The transformation of the world, of the environment by the inhabitants of They did not limit themselves to creating villages, but In the age of cities, not only did they developed the region. Their way of life was based on dominating nature, something surprising that is not always considered. their survival. Built with baked bricks and It is impressive. It is estimated that the construction 1,500 men over 5 years. From 20 km away, the peasants Drawings of the ruins made an English archaeologist, They allow us to imagine the city This great city was located in cereals. Its port received merchants thousands of kilometers away, to the Arabian Peninsula. All the activity of the city revolved all political and economic decisions were made. Behind a wall eight meters high, The houses were piled up There was no sewerage in The garbage was burning at the foot did not simply spread There were three-story buildings next to one-story ones. No house was aligned with its neighbor. Apart from the low doors and ventilation holes, there were almost no openings. on the facades. In this way, the protected from heat and Life in the city of Urs has long been a great mystery. The inventor of the deposit, Roulet, He spent years excavating the ruins. In 1926, of Queen Pu-abi and soldiers and to serve her in the afterlife. The dim candlelight illuminated The archaeologist found in the treasure show the life of the Sumerians. Mother-of-pearl figures, Soldiers parade under An incredibly precise snapshot, by mules crushing the enemy. Or the frozen smile of the In the now arid desert Traces of the past are still visible. What a surprise to discover in the middle of this the rivers, the remains of Sumerian dams. Archaeologists in the 19th century How was life established in zones deserts so far away The city of Nippur, 250 km south of Baghdad, in the middle of the desert. The remains of the temple emerge from the dunes. By excavating the city, archaeologists This clay tablet You can see the exact location of the To the west of the wall flowed the Frat, to supply the city. The great cities were The evolution of the terrain and violent floods changed the course of the rivers. Thanks to satellite photos of the relief of Iraq, We can now reconstruct the map of Nippur, Uruk, Ur, Girsu, the main Sumerian city, was established in a very different landscape. At that time, the confluence Crossing Mesopotamia, the The first rays of It's summer and the heat The city slowly wakes up. The inhabitants slept on the terraces, The texts that summarize real estate purchases the houses do not exceed 70 m2. From early on, the crowd invades they call out to passers-by. The commercial activity In the courtyards of some houses, men relax Several writings show The precariousness of their situation, made them aware of the On the streets, the inhabitants a sheepskin tunic. Depending on fashion, the garment knees or ankles. The wives of notables wear Men and women wore Excavations revealed allowing the less fortunate to adorn themselves with costume jewelry. All these people were Outside the temple were the houses and the slave slums. The treasure unearthed in Ur It reveals Sumerian customs and attests to the quality of the city's craftsmen. Sumerian goldsmiths of chiseling and gold soldering. The harp, with its bull's head, It was decorated with a mosaic For his last trip in the company of his sovereign The maidens wore a tiara of gold ribbons and colored stones. A braid beech leaves covered their protruded from the back of the head. Gold and stones for parade weapons came from Eastern Europe. - came from the East. The mother-of-pearl and shells The raw materials of this buckle reveal the prosperity of Ur. They reflect the vitality of your business. Archaeologists have located To obtain lapis lazuli, the Sumerians three thousand kilometers to reach of present-day Pakistan. Peshawar, a commercial city Shipments of When passing the stone under water shines a deep blue. This intense color Archaeologists have established that Sumerian civilization 3,500 BC Three thousand years before the The Sumerians created trade routes that crossed the East. The development of Sumerians to invent the Cylindrical cubes were carved in stone They were rolled in clay when a contract was signed to identify the merchandise. This imprint sealed the transactions. This is how the inhabitants of Sumeria, importance, they began to enact laws. Very few legislative texts from this period have survived. At the beginning of the 20th century, archaeologists Babylon, in Susa, Persia. The Elamites, who had ravaged Mesopotamia in the 12th century BC, had taken as a trophy. In 1694 bears his name, a compendium Most of the two hundred and eighty-two articles set in stone deal with of everyday problems such as business transactions, The king, as a judge, investigated abuses public works. The Code of Hammurabi shows On the back of the stone, Article 196 of the code warns &quot;If a man gouges out another man's eye, A famous saying that inspired the Bible. To build your Garden of Eden The Sumerians traveled the world Wood, for example, absent from the deserts of Mesopotamia. To obtain this rare material, reserved for construction, The Sumerians ventured into Syria, But today, Cedar forests are rare and scarce. After the Sumerians, ancient times used this Legend has it that there are cedars that are more than 4,000 years old, contemporary with disappeared civilizations. They could testify to the efforts The bas-reliefs in the Sumerian woodcutters cut down centuries-old cedars before loading them onto ships who sailed along the Euphrates. These expeditions lasted for months. They show the enormous work carried out by Some of the discoveries made used today by their Iraqi descendants. Such is the case of bitumen, a natural mineral rich in carbon that is still used to waterproof the hulls of ships and the roofs of houses. We are in Hit, a small town Sumerian cities. Here, bitumen springs from the depths of the earth, accompanied by sulfur vapors. Since it floats on water, archaeologists descend the Euphrates and be collected We are in Hit, on the banks of the Euphrates, Before immersing your hands in the black material, you must cover them with sand. The Sumerians also used bitumen to waterproof their ships. But they used it above all in construction, not only to fix the bricks together, but also to public buildings. This practice reveals an important event: floods. Through the work of the orientalist devastating floods. Enlil, the supreme god, disgusted by human unleash a flood, Despite the pleas of Unable to protect humanity He asks Ziusudra to build an ark After 6 days and 6 nights of At dawn on the seventh day, the storm subsided. Ziusudra released a dove which, On the eighth day, He released a raven, who never returned. Humanity was saved. Mesopotamian myths until just over a century ago thanks to the texts found, which is the Flood. Without reality, all the Western civilization and Christianity are permeated with the text biblical, which contains myths from the Mesopotamian world. The entire history of Western Christianity is Understood or not, often reinterpreted, as the Mesopotamians did. mark on us. The gods inspired fear and respect. They symbolized the ancient distrust Each deity in their pantheon Each one reigned over a city. Enlil, lord of breath, Enki, god of water and the Thu, god of justice and truth, presides over the destiny of Larsa. Inanna, The goddess Ishtar of the Babylonians, is honored in Uruk. It inspired love and war. Aphrodite for the Greeks The fluid curves of the alabaster figurines Sumerian artists. Its delicacy and the faces reveal their art The religious feeling of the Mesopotamians It is something very difficult We found temples in the excavations, In the texts we have myths and rituals, But the deepest feeling is Mesopotamian there is a very general concept of divine power. There are forces, and man and has to deal with them. This religion is a religion of man in the service of God. What does this service mean? It means feeding him, giving him water at mealtimes every day, dressing him with beautiful clothes, obviously including change them depending on the day. From time to time, the God is taken out city, spent elsewhere If we look at the facts, Mesopotamian religion is more or less that. Prayer was part of The maintenance and operation of the temples required a large workforce. Every day, the faithful brought their offerings. The Uruk archives describe the 250 loaves of bread, 1,000 cakes, 50 sheep, 8 lambs, 2 oxen and a calf: food offered to the gods who then One thousand two hundred people in total. The scribes transmitted the virtues, dignity and respect The Sumerians aspired to The struggle to tame nature inspired their legends. Gilgamesh, a real historical figure, fifth king of Uruk in the third millennium. He is the hero of the Sumerians. Tales of his fabulous exploits Summarizes the history of Gilgamesh, a just king and He tamed the wild people and went to the cedar forest to confront Humbaba, a fire monster. In hand-to-hand combat, he cut off the monster's head and returned to Uruk. To punish him, The goddess Inanna sent the heavenly bull to ravage the city. The beast dried up the meadows and rivers, and the inhabitants. &quot;And the Lord scattered them and they stopped building the city.&quot; The vision of the Sumerians was prophetic. After 3,000 years of attacked from all sides, it would collapse. The splendor of the cities and their dried up, the walls of the houses attacks from the sun, rain and wind. The clay of the bricks returned to the vestiges of the greatness of a people. How to explain the disappearance of such a brilliant civilization? How to understand the decline of a town that only left ruins and remains of temples that soon were looted? Can we talk about decline? To a certain extent, yes, but The great discoveries Thought reflected or let's say in the context of religion, These things evolve. And seen on a large scale We can see that there is less and less freedom to express Mesopotamian art is in the third millennium that in the first millennium. What happens Iron is an advantage, It is easier to work with, although it requires applications, so it is an improvement. iron, which raises the problem of away. Therefore, regions with iron ore will play a greater role important than Mesopotamia. For almost a century, Scribes recorded the decline temples are clear: from 2350 BC, wheat production fell by 40%. Only barley harvests remained at their initial levels. How can we believe that a people with decline of its resources? For researching, searching in the texts The element that had been the the irrigation system, also contributed to his downfall. The water, After invading the fields for 3,000 years, it evaporated, bringing salt from the depths of the earth. Soon, a whitish layer preventing wheat from growing. It is a problem that the inhabitants of these regions still face. Some lands, cracked They look like an uncultivated desert. This is what the huge fields Due to global warming and desertification, Sumerian farmers never But does this mean that civilization is in decline? Talking about a decline It is not correct. developed and a at the end of their journey, creating magnificent thought will not perish; will transmit. The very cultured, like the people of Mesopotamia at They would pass on their sciences and knowledge. from Anatolia, heading towards the Greek world, and from there it reached the Mediterranean. The entire Mediterranean basin inherited be able to refer directly to their forms. Weakened, the cities of Sumer Other civilizations, inspired by conquered lands. In two thousand and four BC, Sumeria had come to an end. The Assyrians ruled Mesopotamia. The Babylonian epic could begin. Under the relentless sun, the wealth This is the story that Like the builders of the Tower of Babel, the men and women of Sumer scattered throughout the earth. The water they so feared had precipitated Tigris and Euphrates, to contain their The Sumerians fell into leaving humanity the memory of and the sense of the great fragility of civilizations.