Roughly 3.5 million years ago, one of the most important fossils Today, using the latest scientific research and her death as much as we possibly can. to her greatest moments and perhaps even the This is Life and Death Three Million Years Ago Lucy's life began in the same way as all life that was in many ways familiar to ours but in some our species had scarred the planet, this was a we would recognize as the ancestors of modern Theropithicus brumpti, a relative of the galada Likely it preferred to eat plants but you Megantereon, sabretooth cats built like strong jaws to bring down the largest of prey. Many more species than we have For a young australopithecus like Lucy, life record is full of examples of our ancient A paranthropus aka robust australopithecus Probably caused by a leopard. Dragged across The bones of thirsty australopiths, peppered No doubt caught off guard Ripped from the water's edge Saddest of all perhaps the small Taung child. A that lived around 2.8 million years ago. Judging seemingly plucked from the probably an African crowned eagle, Lucy, however, survived these challenges. Possibly Although we're confident Lucy was bipedal from and many other anatomical features, her upper body are more complicated, seemingly retaining many found the intact shoulder blade of a young Selam. This was a critical discovery because even are missing. Denying us a crucial piece of the much more similar to modern juvenile gorillas than was still being spent in trees. However, it is that australopiths retained from our last common little practical purpose. Changing very slowly Apart from avoiding becoming lunch, her childhood Playing with other kids, rolling around watching the adults in her group, learning Consistently, probably the greatest challenge Analysis of the teeth of 20 indicates that their diet involved a lot succulents the kinds of plants that They could have been eating the grasses and seeds are much higher in calories. Because of their foods is rare and it could have provided a decent them. These foods are almost entirely avoided by and this change of diet marks a significant away from the resources of the forest, towards Just because this food source has little life was easy. Teeth from australopiths that experienced seasonal stress in their diets. Lucy spent a long time roaming the savannah in search Lucy's time have been preserved in the earth for What's fascinating about these footprints is that location that suggest there were different walking time. How well australopiths could walk and run different footprints will certainly be analyzed Not only are the Laetoli footprints an the literal footsteps of some of our also a reminder that three million years ago were probably many distinct groups, each subtly survival strategies and biological adaptations. trying her best not to starve, she almost She probably had a taste for something Many monkeys and apes use tools to acquire food. in hominin evolution where we were not using lineage, hominins, from our other cousins though them. Particularly stone tools. It was believed tools were the Oldowan stone tools created by 1 million years after Lucy had died. However, to 3.3 million years ago. Right in the ballpark Lomekwi assemblage and are currently the oldest Bones of animals, likely ungulates and bovids, an astonishing 3.4 million years ago. This have been supplemented by quite a bit of meat This raises some really fascinating questions. First, how did they acquire this meat? Lucy was a great sprinter so hunting large and fast animals australopithecines have bullied faster predators Troops of other primates can be highly aggressive. like a chimpanzees then another major challenge Lucy could have also been scavenging meat off lions often leave a lot of meat on the bones and Perhaps australopiths like Lucy were developing slivers of meat or use them to smash through competing with top predators, Lucy was probably The second important question is, what was going evidence is correct and hominins like then it suggests something dramatic had compared to other apes. Lucy's brain would have just marginally bigger on average. Yet chimpanzees to produce modified stone tools and even seem containing food. So even though the change dramatic was going on underneath. The brains Another incredible artifact that allows us to get Makapansgat cobble. This cobble was layers dated to 2.95 million years ago that Curiously this rock is several kilometers perhaps as far as 32 kilometers. It's probably stomach of a bird, and the cave showed no evidence No one can really deny this rock really triggers pariedolia. This ability is definitely not unique to humans. Many animals have evolved this sense ultimately reduces the chances of being bitten out to an australopith. That something about the cave&quot;. Again suggesting that something was really especially interesting because so far endocasts have shown little difference in organization. but very significant. Perhaps all of our artistic in a simple moment of curiosity by not simply an upright walking ape, she was taking One of the major events in Lucy's This was probably quite difficult for Lucy. The our hips, and slowly increasing brain size was women. Baby australopiths would have probably canal. This meant that giving birth was certainly and therefore might have become Instead of Lucy giving birth on her own like a surrounded by other women, perhaps her own mother, Who knows what effect this increased collaboration increased cooperation in our prehistoric ancestors just one way we cooperate and the increasing extremely significant factor in our evolution, How much of a role Lucy's baby daddy played in issue revolves around the size differences dimorphism. In primates, species that have a in societies where there is one massive guy trying little role in the raising of children. Silverback Absolute beasts! Compared to other apes, humans males tend to be very involved in the raising afarensis have come to the conclusion that there argued that the degree of dimorphism is similar involved in family life. In support of this idea, and had longer childhoods than our modern ape to learn how to produce stone tools and live was probably required from somebody and that could for sure because we don't have a perfectly all these estimates are based on reconstructions. but also separated by hundreds of thousands of Whatever happened in the twists and turns she died, she's dead, spoiler alert. some have suggested that she contend that these fractures could Either way, her death was probably sincerely we grieve for our dead even chimpanzees even staying by their side for days. As the evidence suggests that australopits might the pain that they would have felt watching over be watching over Lucy more than 3 million years not just of herself but of the