It's 2024. tyres have changed. Vehicles have changed After another My advice has changed. The first and most important decision that every single 4 Wheel Driver has to make are which tyres they need? You only really have two options All Terrain versus Mud Terrain. That means you have a 50% chance However, 50% chance for 40,000 to 60,000 WHAT? That could drive you wild. I CAN'T HEAR YOU I GOT EAR-MUFFS ON! Most people think All Terrain, All Terrain, All Terrain, All Terrain, All Terrain, All Terrain, All Terrain, All Terrain, And many people just fit Mud Terrains Oh, yeah. And I wish it was that simple. Truth is, these two options is much closer HUH, Really? To help you make the right choice, I'm going to explain this in a way Over two decades of experience, I want to make this crystal clear. Terrain comparison. Grip comparison. Footprint comparison. Crushing the myths of the mud. tyres. Difference between a real and a fake And of course, all the pros and the cons. You have a clear understanding on Fake All Terrains. What is a fake? These are what I consider in my opinion and from my experience I'll consider those fake All Terrains Most of all, drives out there are replaced How do you tell the difference? If it's smooth like that, I'll tell you This is a proper All Terrain. I know it is a broad statement, They will be filled as we go. It'll make sense. Trust me. Terrain and grip. Comparison on sand. Immediately, most people will go towards the All-Terrain thinking And it kind of makes sense. Many will argue the Mud Terrain tyre, blocks and aggressive gaps in between. It will just dig into the sand You BOGGED Mate?, after all that! when you think about it, kind However, with my experience of driving type of sand, you can think of with Mud So long you have the same tyre pressure They're on par. You don't really dig into the sand If you're going to dig in the sand, At really low pressures, like not to ride with a stiffer to stick to the rim a little bit better, Both tyres are damn good on sand. Good option in terms of sand recovery and All Terrain and a Mud Terrain But to be honest, it is easier to recover just because of its big tread blocks In terms of the highway to run, they can Sometimes trying to recover hard for them to grip onto those lugs. Not often considered Really got to be careful. If you hit things hard and fast, because you will compress HIGHWAY TERRAIN, WEAK AS PISS All Terrain brand dependent. However, this one is very strong. This on a stock Hilux loaded with camping And I had to put them down to like 7 Before I had the HT (highway tyres) 15 P.s.i was like having these new tyres, 7 or 8 psi Highway Terrain. There is no real structure in that sidewall. I reckon I could have gone down and still be able to drive That's how strong the solid wall MUD TERRAIN. The strongest of them all But most of the good brands out there, Some have more protection on the side This one in particular has a fair and having bigger blocks on the shoulders gives it more protection from sideswiping, The most exposed and weak part of It's an added layer of protection. Rock Terrain, rock boulders. Rocky outcrops. Smooth rock. Sharp shale. Rock. Limestone. Any type of rock. When people hear the words 4WD going through mud, And a Mud tyre is designed to have bigger gaps tread blocks, and this design is so for more traction, its clawing for more traction. And because of this design, it tends to grip onto uneven terrain way Think of it like comparing Translate that into the tyres. If you take the All Terrain tread blocks, They're pretty close together. With Rocks, You can see how they more slide over it When it comes to MUD TYRE, on the other hand, the tread blocks are much bigger, You see the difference? It'll almost pinch the rock. This, on the other hand, it's going to slide more because So therefore when you're driving on rocks, It's all to do with the depth This was never meant I use kettlebells to add resistance so I can scale a difference I found consistent ratings and four different terrains. I'm definitely gripping more. It's not conclusive, but it backs up I mean, there are significant I try and really finds a rock It's got those deeper fingers, Aside from driver error It's difficult to deny on the rocks. This is the environment I spend a lot of time in the outback, Mud Terrain tyres. I trust them way And how much terrains on wouldn't them Yeah, they're also good out here, but they're a bit softer and I suffer more So that is what I'd suggest on this stuff. OHHH, THATS BETTER! Biggest con of the mud, That's what everyone just really hones Is it really that bad, though? Road noise. Mud tyres and not that loud Going It's a bit of a big jump. However, if you're early on All Terrains that are a bit worn down won't notice that much difference. Not just noisy at high speed, it's The mud tries to get noisier as I wear I find this one not too bad. Road noise and All Terrains It can vary a lot. The more aggressive there is for road noise, and I didn't sy It's just the more potential of road The real question is Not very long. Straightaway when you get in a vehicle, have some regrets to somehow It's often and then it just becomes normal. I've been driving a different car I had All Terrains on it. When I jumped straight back into this Everything again. But ten hours later, So you get used to it pretty quick. How much noise a tyre makes should not be the only consideration Gravel roads, . HIGHWAY TERRAIN!? That's what most people use and on smooth gravel Yeah. Great option. However, corrugations, harsh gravel for a long period of time, those highway terrains They will fail eventually. And that's why these are not off road All we did was a gravel road It must have hit a rock completely blowing the tyre out. So which is a better option Yes. Most people again will assume for the most part there. Correct? So what about mud to rights? Well, they're actually not a bad choice Believe it or not, is actually quite HUUUUUH???? And the reason for that. It doesn't pick up all the little bits It only picks out the big rocks, If you're towing something, If a ricochet off the trailer, If you go to wagon, you're back. Windows. But there's a solution for that. The solution! There we go. Stopping on gravel. Believe it or not. MT's (Mud Terrains) any uneven or bigger rocks The matter grip onto that much better. That's where it'd have been Because it can't do that and definitely much All Terrains are easy to balance, however. Mud Terrains. Once you've done one decent trip on them, or you been through mud, quite hard with some for driving, kind of things, you will lose your wheel Not too bad 70 to 80km/h. You start to get vibrations It's just having Mud Tyres, why they wear a little bit faster Let's talk about mud. A little bit sideways there! It may seem obvious Mud Terrains, BUT heres the thing! A certain amount of speed We're looking at a speed of around 15 Let's translate that With Mud Terrain, you're able to claw, clean and clean it all at the same time. C C C This hill requires C.C.C. And that's not going to happen All Terrain tyre. Not a chance. All the one. In fact, they're dangerous They will clog up straightaway. I kept going to going. Mud Terrain is the best option But what if you're going downhill If you do that, you can't eject the mud. You need that minimum speed of rotation Which means. Highway terrain and an All Terrain and a Mud Terrain Going down a steep slope in mud. CLAW CLEAN and CLIMB You can't do that going downhill. Price and Value Well, that depends on what you're using You're not really needing a Mud Terrain. Well, then you're not really getting the value out of it and one of those con's They wear down faster than an All Terrain. So in that sense it's not great value. However, if you need the mud terrain, Speaking of value, the armrests. Now these are worth something. Jump online guys and get yourself one. (Fits almost every vehicle. Which should you go? In all honesty, MUD TERRAIN, the noise of a mud WHAT? Just like pinstriping your car It just happens when you go THE ALL TERRAIN. Well, that's for those They'll spend most of the time or perhaps 1 or 2 trips a year. I wouldn't even go near highway terrains. That's the tyre to get you to the tyre If you wanna know about tyre pressures, that video there And here's another helpful video. THANKS FOR WATCH MUD.........TER....RAIN