180 ingredients and 50% of them are unknown This is a trip like no other. Welcome to Peru. It all starts by understanding the culture As we soon find out, we have lots to learn. We were taken on a journey to find out what It is hard to describe this experience, but I'll tell you the story so everything We are picked up at the airport and taken straight to the Sacred Valley of The Sacred Valley is in the Andean highlands. Along with the nearby town of Cusco and the ancient city of Machu Picchu, it formed the center of the Inca Empire. The terraces of Moray look like an open pit Temperature and soil conditions were different Allowing the Inca to experiment and learn. We met some of the indigenous people who are central to making Virgilio's restaurant We saw some of the ingredients they grow and heard the stories behind them. It's hard to put into words how amazing it to be up there with people who are so connected It's here we meet a gastro pioneer and begin Our host is Chef Virgilio Martinez. Chef Virgilio enrolled at the world-famous in 1998. Then he went to work. In France, Italy, Singapore, the US and the Then he took a position with Peruvian superchef Gaston Acurio. He helped Gaston build a fine dining franchise, opening new restaurants in Bogota and Madrid. It was a vacation back home that would send At a market in Peru, he noticed many ingredients It was a Eureka moment. A calling to cook food that belonged to his Now you know about the chef, let's go back to the Sacred Valley for a little Also in Moray is one of Chef Virgilio's The Food Lab and Interpretation Center called It's more than just a restaurant. Here, they work with indigenous people to We had lunch here. It was our first taste from Virgilio's kitchen, and it led us one step further into Peruvian Chef Virgilio is a man of few words, but he radiates a ton of positive energy. It shows in his focus, discipline, and passion. Dedicating himself to preserving the heritage This already felt like we were on the verge We were surprised to learn that Virgilio is He and his sister Malena founded a scientific back in 2013. It's called MATER. Their objective is to preserve the biodiversity They collect and analyze the thousands of and sometimes, discover new ones too. It's the beating heart that gives Virgilio's that they are known for. The day after, we're back in Lima. We make our way to the bohemian That's where we find our restaurant for Central. The walls surrounding the garden give it a industrial look. Inside couldn't be more different. It's an oasis. With smiling faces and a botanical garden. Waiting for us is a selection of the ingredients Each one grown and cultivated by Chef Virgilio I don't know half this stuff and I can't wait for try it. Inside, we find a bright casual restaurant From trees coming through the floor and plants everywhere. Everything at the table looks like the work As well as the actual tables. These are amazing. I once said that my favorite tables were at but these are very strong contenders, The ambient music is slow and calming. It creates an almost church-like feeling. The menu here at Cental is really something Each couse showcases an ecosystem at a specific With 14 courses, they can barely scratch the The earth has 103 ecosystems, Of the worlds 32 climates, Peru has 28 of them. In other words, Peru is megadiverse. Here at Central, they take you on a gastronomic Virglio opened Central in 2008 with his wife Pia who is also head chef, putting Virgilio's Together, they launched the altitudes the Next year, Central made it onto the World's 50 Best Restaurants list. In 2015, they were catapulted to the number And last year, they reached number 2. In 2023, They reach number one, however, They don't have any michelin stars. The Michelin guide doesn't operate in much It was announced in 2014 they would be expanding to the region, but at this time only cover Rio de Janeiro To go along with the Altitudes menu here at there are three drink pairings. One with international wine a local spirit and wine pairing and a juice pairing. We go for one of the local pairings. The prices on the menu are a fraction of what The Altitudes menu goes for 250 euros and Our first course is called Black Rocks. The ingredients are found at 10 meters below These are all bites made with seaweed, clams Three different tastes with the same ingredients. It shows the diversity in the menu and sets the tone for our meal. Notice the lack of fancy tableware. It's all locally-sourced and one-of-a-kind. It adds an almost spiritual connection to Our first drink pairing is a cocktail with cucumber melon and sea lettuce. For juice it's cucumber, melon and loche. The drinks are fresh and natural tasting. For the second course we go 600 meters above This course is called Dry Valley. It's a shrimp bisque with squash and avocado. It has a beautiful creaminess and the crab This dish is brilliant. It was paired with a Vivente Vinhos Chardonnay Both interesting wines and different to what We climb to 1350 meters It features papa voladora potatoes and yacoon Papa voladora is Spanish for &quot;flying potato&quot; because it grows from a tree instead of the There are two dishes with this potato. This one, we made it with the skin of the and this one with added the pulp of the potato. The red vegetable on top is hibiscus which gives the dish a nice acidity. A server drizzled syrup from yacon root onto and we were invited to use our fingers. The presentation here is really exciting. Mixing these flavors was a first for me, but also delicious. For Drinks: Moscatel from Valle del Bio Bio in Chile This is a skin-contact wine. It's a white wine that has turned orange because the grape juice has been allowed to Although I generally don't go for bio-wine, I was happy to try it. Our next course is called Extreme Altitude and we are at 4200 meters above sea level. In front of you, we prepared 5 different type If you visit a high altitude in the Andes you can find the different variety of the Warm corn porridge is covered in kiwicha which are caviar-like balls that It's finished with crispy The mixing of textures is really For drinks we have a high altitude It's from Bolivia. It is stored in a traditional I admire their deep respect for the heritage. It's a natural wine, and it For our next course we are going down. 15 meters below sea level For a dish called Warm Sea Current Featuring grouper and razor clams. Removing the top reveals razor Words can't express how Next we go up to 148 meters Not to the rainforest, but to the river. The arapaima is one of the It's found in the Amazon river and as big as 200 kilograms. We had the belly of the fish served with two this orange one is made with cecina. Cecina is a smoked and cured and this black color one made with a tucupi. Tucupi is a fermented root vegetable, it also from the jungle. The flavors were out of this world. The centerpiece they bring to the table is amazing and shows us what the fish looks like. It's not for eating. It's really a piece of art. It's paired with a Peruvian chardonnay from 2012. It's a refreshing wine with fruit aromas. Very nice. Our 7th course is on ground level. It's called Blue-Green Ocean it's scallops, seaweed and cucumber Three different textures of scallop. Purple and yellow sweet potato and a foam made of sea urchin. We are instructed to drink the The textures were nice and It was paired with a crisp At the halfway point we are given a small tour to understand the work Chef Virgilio Everything here comes from local and chef supports them by using It really demonstrates his love Our eighth course brings us under This course is called Sea Brain Algae. The octopus usually hides in the coral, and this dish represents that. On top there's a seaweed crisp, and under The giant blackened octopus on the table was This was another stunning dish with incredible Before we can blink our 9th course arrives. It's 3600 meters above sea level. It's called MIL Lab and it's What looks like caviar is actually Chef Virgilio then comes out to serve us Peruvian under a mound of hot rocks and soil. It allows us to make a connection with the Brilliant. The Peruvian potatoes were served with a thick, Beautiful flavors. It's very new and very exciting. The pairing is: A juice with herbs from the mountains that It's full of antioxidants. Our 10th course was maybe the most impressive It's takes place 140 meters I didn't know this, but not all piranha eat flesh. Some are vegetarian. They eat plants and nuts that fall into the They show the scene in the pointed up, as if waiting for food to drop. The fish, together with some of the plants The dish made me think about the The flavors are breathtaking. I like the acidity and crunch. It is served with an ale It works perfectly with the fish. Number 11 is our last savory dish. It takes us to the Andean Colorful slices of olluco over With a dried mushroom spiral on top. It is quite fatty, but I really liked it. The flavors are fresh and alive. It's paired with two red wines One is nearly 20 years old, from Peru It's a blend of red grapes from It's has notes of paprika and truffle. and the other is over 40 years old, from Uruguay. It's from Bodega Cerro Chapeu They have only 6 bottles of This wine was given to Virgillo as a gift Next we have two sweet courses at the same time. Sacred Valley and Moray 2800 and 3600 meters. Moray is a granita with jelly pieces using a plant used by the Incas, and the muna leaf which had a minty flavor. The second is a fruit called chirimoya. Underneath is a sweet purple pudding. The wine pairing is a signature small-batch We were then invited to join a station where we sampled lightly fermented I discovered some interesting new flavors. The white one was my favorite, I can drink it all day long. Our final course today is It's called Cacao Chuncho Five ways to enjoy cacao. We tried one that uses the One with seeds, and bits of the shell. All of them were good in different ways. Like nothing I've tried before. Like all good things, they must come to an end. My heart and my belly are full. This was a journey like no other. An absolutely beautiful experience I learned about the culture, the food and I met a great chef and his team who are ambassadors of making the world a better place for their people and opening the eyes of guests like me. We need more people with this way of thinking. The World Needs it. Dining at Central is so much It may not be a place you come back to every week. But it is definitely a place It's an adventure that will warm your soul. and that does it for this episode Thank you for joining me If you like this video, hit the subscribe button See you next time