Contrary to popular belief, dreams wake us up. They lift us from this passivity of life, they become the impulse to have a goal on our way. No one thinks of himself as the loser, but as the winner. But reality is harsh, and sometimes in order to remain steadfast towards our goals, we will have to dream with our eyes open to never forget our purposes. After all, how bad can it be to dream excessively? The legend of ''El Nino de Oro'' begins with a trait that will distinguish him throughout his life: determination. Hugo trained with great enthusiasm in the fields near his house, soccer had become that pleasure that he could not leave behind. At the age of 14, he entered the youth Olympic team where he began to polish his natural talent. Influenced by the sports lineage of his family, Hugo enhanced his abilities; When he finished training with the Olympic team, he stayed with his sister, Herlinda, an Olympic gymnast, to perform the acrobatics that would distinguish him in the future. Hugo made his debut in the Olympic team a year later and thanks to his performances in the 75' Pan American Championship and the U-20 World Championship, Pumas would give him the opportunity to play in professional soccer. His meteoric rise raised great expectations, the young striker reached one of the best squads that Pumas had in its history. Alongside 'Cabinho', Bora Milutinovich, Munante, Leonardo Cuellar and under the tutelage of the Hungarian Gyorgy Marik, Hugo lived a great season in his first experience as a professional footballer. The young rookie was earning his place little by little, although he was not a starter, he became a recurring trigger on the weekends. [HUGO]: My father was the one who told his friends with certainty and security: '' this child is going to be the best player in the history of Mexico '' and without saying anything, I said: '' you'll see that I'm going to do the merits and I'm going to make sure you don't lose face with your friends. '' At the end of that season, the Pumas would achieve their first league championship, collaborating (Hugo) with 7 goals that year. The evolution in each tournament was evident, getting the call for the senior team for the 1978 World Cup in Argentina, but unfortunately, that team would be one of the worst in history. Hugo continued to be constant and for the 78-79 season, he would obtain his first scoring title shared with Cabinho; they got 26 goals each. By 80-81, Hugo was a consolidated player in the first division and the benchmark for the Pumas, and that same season was crowned league champion again. More and more doors were opening to make the leap to Europe, but Hugo had a pending promise. [HUGO]: I was attending university in Mexico, so I trained in the morning and studied in the afternoon. But I didn't wanna come to Europe until I finished my degree, because my father and mother made a lot of effort to give me education and maintenance and I said: `` until I finish my degree and give my parents the degree I'm not leaving. '' On August 14, 1981, with his university degree in hand and at the age of 23, Hugo signed with Atletico de Madrid. While Mexico celebrated the first national export of Pumas. in Spain, the news was not to the liking of the mattress fan. On his arrival in Madrid, the journalists who were at the airport asked him 'what did you expect on your arrival?' Hugo wants to show humility in his response, saying that he came with enthusiasm to learn. But the journalist recalled that it was not his role, that he came to show, because the spot was given to him over a Spaniard. A few days later the DT who brought the Mexican, Jose Luis Garcia Traid, was dismissed after a problem of indiscipline. The ignorance of the new coach (Luis Cid Perez &quot;Carriaga&quot;) about the Mexican's qualities would result in few opportunities for Hugo to jump onto the field, and when he did, from the public it was heard: &quot;Indian get out of here.&quot; The journalists published headlines such as: &quot;We want footballers, not mariachis&quot; and being far from his country and from people who trusted him, Sanchez felt the coldest of loneliness. These three months were torturous for Hugo. Atletico de Madrid was not going through a good time, and due to the pressure they thought of getting rid of him, but Hugo preferred to cut half his salary to be able to remain within the club. He also lived this exclusion with his teammates, and to give himself respect he had to face them ... And get to the blows The light had to appear, and coach Jose Luis Garcia Traed (who had brought him), returned to the bench. The situation opened up the possibility of playing more, and in his natural position, as a center forward and not for the bands as he had done with Luis Cid Perez. As a result of his first goal, on November 29, Hugo was smelling blood again and the goals began to arrive mitigating that racism that was shown since his arrival. He finished the season with 12 goals and the team would move away from the relegation zone. His performance increased each season and it was in 85-86 that he would win his first ''Pichichi'', with 19 goals. His scoring instinct, his great shot and speed, made Hugo Sanchez one of the most dangerous players in Spain. That same season with a great Hugo's performance, Atleti swept Real Madrid at home, and in the Copa del Rey final against Athletic Bilbao, Hugo would give the title to the 'colchoneros'. His performances did not overlook the great clubs of the Iberian region: In 83-84, Barcelona managers reached a verbal agreement with Hugo. [JOAN]: I signed up Signed up uh? Signed Hugo Sanchez And then we signed up a manager called Terry Venables '' We have these players and we signed up Hugo Sanchez, so he can plays as a '9' '' ' And he told me: '' I have a better player '' ''Archibald'' [HUGO]: He called me and said: '' Hey Hugo, I'm so sorry '' and I said: '' yes, you are going to feel it, but a lot '' A year later Joan Gaspart tried again, but Hugo had given his word to someone else ... [HUGO]: Suddenly Joan Gaspart calls me and says: '' Hey Hugo, you were right, we want to pay you whatever you want, but have you already signed with Real Madrid? '' '' No, I have not signed '' '' Please, I will give you a blank check and the contract that you want '' I tell him: '' No, I'm sorry, I'm going to Real Madrid because I'm excited '' Even when he gains a foothold over Atletico fans, Hugo knew that it would be very difficult to win titles with the colchoneros and, strictly adhering to his professional goals, he left. In an atypical operation to avoid the annoyance of their fans, Atletico made a sale simulation to Pumas so this last one could 'sell' Hugo to Real Madrid. On July 15, 1985, with the Olympic stadium as the stage, Hugo Sanchez Marquez, became a player for one of the most important clubs in the world, maybe the most important. The Mexican was always very clear about his goals, perhaps ahead of his time in terms of professionalism. As it is said, he stayed to train longer to perfect his plays; he had calculated the portions he should eat; the number of family visits that he could have per year; The days he could go out for fun and even time to practice his profession. In his first season dressed in white (85-86), Madrid broke their drought in the league championship and Hugo won his second Pichichi with 22 goals. On a higher level, Hugo disputed the UEFA Cup. In his first international experience, he helped Real Madrid to reach the semifinals against Inter Milan. First leg in San Siro, would be fast-paced, in a few minutes into the game, the Italians took the lead. Hugo tried and the white team settled better on the field. The off-hook of the Italian team disturbed the Madrid defense and on the side, a pass became a dangerous shot that hit the crossbar. Hugo skillfully took the ball through the center of the field and overflowed his markers, sending a delayed pass at the feet of Valdano, who could not score. Michel centers Valdano who strikes and Hugo stays close to closing the gap. ''Los blancos'' charged with a filtered pass from Gordillo, and Hugo again stayed close to finishing. Moments later, in a long serve the goalkeeper Jose Manuel went wrong and gave the ball to Marco Tardelli to score. 'Merengues' tried to be more offensive and in their best opportunity a filtered ball from Michel would find Hugo, but his shot passed inches from the post. The merengue goal would come in a corner kick; Valdano's work. But two minutes later, Salguero scored at his own door to complete the 3-1. On the second leg, Real Madrid came out stronger and a head from Santillana warned of what was about to come. The pressure was incessant and the 'white wave' put the Italians in constant danger. Michel entered the area in a dangerous way, but Giuseppe Baresi stopped him with a foul inside the area. Hugo was relentless and scored the penalty that brought them closer. In the second half, in a shot-center, Michel was very close to scoring a goal. The merengues would get their second goal thanks to Gordillo. But the Madrilenians complicated their match with a penalty against them converted by Liam Brady. However, one more penalty in favor of Real Madrid, executed by his Killer Hugo Sanchez tied the aggregate. The local offense gave the impression of being able to score first, but the regular time was running out and they went into overtime. Madrid did not lower the intensity, and in a corner kick, they took advantage of Zenga's error that brought them closer to victory. The desperation of the Italians made the game dirty. The merengues would put the final thrust with a great off-hook, between 'El Buitre', Hugo and Santillana that set the 5-1. In the final they would face Colonia. Real Madrid dominated the first minutes, but without moving the scoreboard. Surprisingly, the visitors took advantage at 29 'which left the stands quiet. Ten minutes later, the merengues were recovering emotionally thanks to Hugo's goal. And before the end of the first half, the locals turned the scoreboard that allowed them to go to the dressing room with greater confidence. For the second half, the Madrilenians increased the advantage, in a center that was combed by Hugo and finished off by Valdano. With the dominance of the game, Madrid would be a gale on the offensive. The locals would not leave their prey and the fourth goal would appear at 86 '. Santillana would complete 'La Manita' and gave them a great result for the second leg. The Olympiastadion in Berlin, Germany, was the scene of the return. The Germans were tougher, and that force was resented by Hugo who suffered a severe blow that forced him to leave the field. Minutes later, Uwe Bein brought Cologne into the game. But it was until 72 'that the Germans converted the second. With great performances from their goalkeeper, Agustin, 'the whites' held the score until the final whistle and thus concluded the first great year for the Mexican. Hugo obtained his first international championship and a promising future with 'La Quinta del Buitre'. In the 86-87 season, Real Madrid won the league and the number '9' obtained the Pichichi with 34 goals. In the European Cup (what we know today as the Champions League), Madrid met Bayern Munich in the semi-finals; The first leg would be played without Hugo, and in the match the merengues would receive 2 red cards, falling by a score of 4-1. With a rough score, Madrid couldn't come back and they only scored one goal. Sanchez was not only differentiated by his great game, but his character was also different. The Mexican wanted to separate work from his personal life, he felt that making close relationships could become problematic for his goals. An example of this coldness became apparent months before the end of this season. It was revealed by the newspaper La Gazzetta dello Sport that Hugo had talks with clubs in the Italian league: They talked mainly about Inter Milan, and also about Juventus and AC Milan. His teammates considered Hugo a friend, but the Azteca was clear that his teammates were just co-workers. Molowny said: "As long as he's here, he keep scoring goals. He's so cold, this will not affect him ". In the end the transfer was not successful and in a while everything was normal again. In the 87-88 season Hugo did not stop being the best striker in the league, consuming his fourth Pichichi in a row and being national champion once again with Real Madrid. In the European Cup they stayed at the gates of the final; in the quarterfinals, they would retaliate against Bayern, and PSV would be their rival in the semifinals. In the first leg the Spanish team would tie to one goal, Hugo would score the only goal for the locals. In the second leg they only needed one goal to make life difficult for the Dutch, but that score never came. With a final result of 0-0, PSV would advance by tiebreaker criteria. The most memorable moment of that year occurs on matchday 32 of the league. &quot;La Huguina&quot; was the hallmark of the house. An aerial auction, either 'chilena' or 'scissor'. The acrobatic itself was striking, it gave a special decoration to his goals. The elegance and ease of doing it, amazed all the spectators. But what was experienced in that game was the perfection of the play that will identify him as one of the best forwards in the history of football. In the league, the meringues were still intractable, getting their fourth consecutive championship. Surprisingly, Hugo would not get the ''Pichichi'', Baltazar from Atletico de Madrid, scored 8 more goals than the Mexican. Losing the scoring lead caught the pride of the striker who wanted to continually improve himself. Jorge Valdano, says that he once said that the best player was Maradona. This did not amuse the Mexican, because he felt that he was at Diego's level and he believed that all the work he did to be the best was not recognized. Mindset was important to him, and if he believed he could achieve something, he had to really believe it. Focused on the League and with the desire to demonstrate his quality, those of the Spanish capital were forceful when they won it for the fifth time in a row, and Hugo, who had his thorn stuck in last season, would make an extraordinary year by scoring 38 goals, all of them in just one touch. A record that would take 22 years to break. He was proclaimed top scorer and recovered the ''Pichichi'', the fifth in his career, and was recognized with the golden boot for the best striker in Europe. But the stages end. And so it was that, after living his best years, Hugo's decline came; injuries would take him away from the limelight and not even his attitude will could prevent it. Real Madrid would lose control of Spain and Hugo, had to say goodbye to the legendary Santiago Bernabeu. His legacy will remain in the history of football. But in the collective memory, he will be marked by his character: Arrogant and even egotistical for some. But, perhaps, all these attitudes were only a reflection of someone who created a shield to protect himself. Nobody wants to walk showing their vulnerability. In a hostile world where every person tries to survive, you can't blame someone for defending himself. The obstacles of life prepare us for those blows, for a fight that no one asked for, Hugo fought with his own weapons to show the world that he could dream big. He managed to be the best Mexican striker as he proposed, and the rest will be an anecdote.