On April 7th, 2021, speedrunning history was Super Mario Bros. was completed in 4 minutes In the past, when assessing the Super Mario dream that one day, the next second barrier Well, not this time. 4:54 is the perfect speedrun. At first glance, you may wonder if this speedrun 4:54 is the final second break ever for this Let's answer all of those questions and World Record Speedrun Explained. First of all, let's address the obvious: While this might not be the case for every enough to be functionally indistinguishable So, while it is generally encouraged to play most top level runners have opted for the are fully legitimate and benefit from no advantage In fact, this is not the first time the world Also, the use of a keyboard is allowed, so any advantage over official controllers. Specifically, left and right cannot be pressed controller, so this combination of keys is Also, buttons are bound to keys bijectively, single key and vice versa. Finally, no unofficial feature like a turbo This speedrun follows all the guidelines set moderators, so it is officially recognized You may wonder why he waits on the title screen. This will make sense later. This is the first major trick of the run: Normally, the flag has to go down before Mario The flag comes down until it reaches this programmed, although never used in normal If Mario reaches this height, the flag also pole. The flagpole base prevents that one from happening, the flag will go all the way down. However, by clipping inside of it, it's alternate condition to stop the flag from saves about 20 frames. Since the game runs at just about 60 frames of a second. But how can Mario clip inside of the flagpole This happens because of the way the game handles Let's run through it step by step, which For the flagpole glitch to work, Mario's range that's about a quarter of a pixel Coming in from the pipe at full speed does setup is used: land on the first pixel of and jump exactly two frames later. When Mario runs into a wall, for one frame, Then, his speed is set to 0, and he is pushed Mario's top speed is exactly 2.5 pixels on one frame, and 3 pixels on the next. Because his position was carefully set up, When that happens, the game has a harder time wall. To solve this problem, it simply takes Mario's But here, Niftski taps left. So, Mario enters the wall by 3 pixels, then On the next frame, Mario first accelerates, to the left, but not enough to move by a pixel, Then, because the game isn't sure which Mario speed and sees that he's moving left. So, it assumes that he ran into the wall from him further inside of the wall. The push is much larger than his speed to to the right. In total, because he has to slow down on the saves 15 frames over jumping directly to the But, by doing this trick, Niftski actually perfect 1-1. Where does the extra time come from? You guessed it, it's time to talk about The game uses many different timers to regulate There are short timers for animations, the And there are long timers, like for the lifespan on a star, the invincibility period after screen between levels. While short timers tick down on every frame, 21-frame cycle. Therefore, long timers are always variable: cycle when they were set. Enemies also make use of long timers, like between Podoboo jumps, or the time until a One of these enemies is the star flag, which coming out of the castle. So, the game will wait however many frames complete cycles, before going to the next As a result, no matter when exactly Mario a level transition on a multiple of 21 frames. This is known as the 21-frame rule, or simply Also, one framerule is used as a shorthand Framerules have deep ramifications in how they make the difference between the strategies They allow some leniency in execution in some in others. It all depends on how many frames of leeway In 1-1, the magic number is 3 frames, which underground section to be almost perfect, How did Mario not die when he touched the The reason is quite simple. Most enemies in Super Mario Bros. have rather of the smallest. It could be a mistake, but it is possibly be more lenient towards the player. Here, even though the sprites visually overlap, This trick is called the pipe clip. In a way, it works similarly to the wall clip There are two key differences though. First, Mario needs to jump lower than two speed and by tapping A for one single frame. But since he's at walking speed, he can't to be pulled in. Thankfully, there's one minute detail that When Mario jumps up to a platform, as long stop his momentum. This is specifically to let him keep his speed he jumps to. In this case though, because Mario jumps so As soon as he no longer has upwards momentum, point Niftski presses left to be pulled in. This jump is a frame perfect 1 frame A tap, by the time he touches the ground. When Mario is inside of a wall and standing he's fully inside. In the case of flagpole glitch, this is dealt the ground, but in this case, jumping is not The extra air time given by the jump arc lets with perfect positioning. Once Mario is fully inside the wall, he can Walls are made up of individual blocks that When he comes out though, he can't immediately has not loaded yet. You can pause right now for a complete explanation The warpzone is loaded if the screen scrolls to take this detour. To make it back onto the pipe as fast as possible, then accelerates backwards to the left. In this game, Mario accelerates twice as fast facing, so by facing right and moving left, Niftski also wants to jump exactly on the have time to turn around. But, if you look closely, he jumps on the This is because Niftski presses both left This gives him a very specific advantage: do nothing, so he will accelerate to the left. But when he lands on the ground, the down and so the left press will do nothing. So, pressing down and left is a safety net acceleration. Jumping late still wastes a couple of frames, to make the fastest possible framerule, it Because of the extra detour to load the warpzone, only one single framerule over the very easy This flagpole glitch works exactly the same This level has a lot to unpack. First, the wrong warp. This pipe should normally take Mario to this which the vine is supposed to do. This is because when multiple subworlds exist Mario to based on the screen's position. The point where the destination changes from By moving Mario further to the right on the the pipe while the screen is still behind of the vine coming out on the other side and Moving Mario to the right is done with this When the game pulls Mario to the right due moving the screen. You can make Mario go all the way to the right is slower than running, Niftski wants to move enough to make the wrong warp work. Finally, this part has more to it than meets Hitting the vine block is crucial because Super Mario Bros. can load up to 6 objects By the time the plant is to be loaded, the are 6 loaded objects. So, the plant is not loaded and the pipe is But entering the pipe is no easy task either. The screen scrolls following Mario's movement, its momentum, which causes the wrong warp To avoid that, Mario needs to come to a complete Because he's already just barely far enough work, this leaves a tiny slice only a few Once in the warpzone, the rest is fairly smooth Hitting the back wall seems slow, but it's around as soon as possible, and much easier. Right at the start of the level is a fast Because Mario accelerates faster backwards, faster to turn around and jump backwards. However, it's much easier said than done. On the first frame of gaining control, you press nothing for one frame, and then press You can't jump any longer than that because speed if he's on the ground and B is held. Jumping longer than a frame would cause Mario which goes against the purpose of accelerating To set up for this flagpole glitch, Niftski But coincidentally, the 8-1 framerule happens way to beat the level has zero frames to spare. The adjustment has to be so small that it frame over going full speed throughout the How small does it actually have to be, though? Well, Mario's position and speed are calculated pixel, a unit commonly called a subpixel. When displaying Mario, subpixels are rounded the scenes. In this case, Niftski needs to adjust his eighth of a pixel. He does this by holding down and right when So, for the very short time that Mario is by the down input, making him slow down ever However, because he jumped one frame later late on the pipe, so he slowed down by only This was a problem. He recognized what happened and fixed it with him his second subpixel of adjustment. At the end, Niftski needed to make a frame the right spot to perform flagpole glitch. Usually, it's possible to jump one frame glitch to work, but in this case, doing so this jump has to be frame perfect as well. There is no understating just how difficult The sheer precision and complete lack of a brutal to complete as fast as he did. This is called the bullet bill glitch and The level ending sequence has three parts. First, the flag goes down until one of the Then, Mario jumps off the flagpole and walks one. When he does, he's flipped to the background castle, and the remaining time starts ticking Finally, the star flag comes out and counts level. With the bullet bill glitch, Mario ends up upwards, thanks to the same corner mechanic He is high enough to touch the flagpole and to snap up onto the block. Once he no longer has upwards momentum, he But also, because he hit a solid block, this ending sequence, skipping not only the flag and saving 2 and a half seconds. A regular jump is way too high for this, so off an enemy instead. The wait for the bullet to reach the flagpole is 3 framerules, or 1.05 seconds, over finishing Now, those of you familiar with these speedruns But this time, it's actually different. This version of the bullet bill glitch is for 7 years, and here's how it's done. The bullet launcher fires at random intervals. But, as it turns out, these intervals aren't In short, the game runs a recursive random that always starts with the same input from This in turn makes it go through the same time. So, if an event calls for a random number by manipulating which frame the event happens In this case, though, that's not enough. The cannon fires based on a timer that calls first three enemy slots. There are ways to change which ones of these So, by loading the bullet bill launcher on enemy slots, it's possible to get the launcher possible. Remember when Niftski waited for an extra This is why. In Super Mario Bros. speedruns, timing officially at the start of 1-1. Starting the run exactly 4.32 seconds after number generation perfectly. But now that he gets to the bullet bill launcher up the enemy slots correctly. This is done by doing a high jump on this The following koopa will load in its place. Then, stomping this koopa makes it turn around it unload later than it would have otherwise. After that, Niftski avoids every other enemy This manipulation sets up the random number cannon fires exactly when it needs to. Another element that makes this extra framerule Mario lands on the first pixel of the block, to get past the pipe with almost no slowdown But all of this still isn't enough. The final detail that makes all of this work Older methods used to bounce on the middle being too slow to get the fastest framerule. Instead, Niftski has to touch the bullet on Here, you can see that Mario goes through This is because the game only handles collisions On this frame, the collision is not being On the next frame, Mario stomps on the bullet For bullet bill glitch to work, Mario needs so to not grab the flagpole. This frame parity issue, called the coin toss, to fail, but it's actually no longer a problem This entire level has zero frames to spare, instead, that means it was already too slow On the other hand, this is why the setup had of the stairs to a 3-frame jump from the top. While both allow Mario to stomp the bullet frames. On any frame where the full jump succeeds, This simply happens to be one where it's As a final note, Niftski also needed to adjust he did with two 1-frame left taps while waiting This level has a flagpole glitch that looks a bit different because of two problems: subpixels An amount of fireworks equal to the last digit a stage at four different values: 1, 3, 6, 8-3 is the only level in the run where going a 6 and their time-wasting fireworks, so Niftski But, he also needs to slow down in such a for flagpole glitch to work. This frame perfect jump is the key to both With a full jump exactly here, Mario lands Then, all Niftski has to do is release B at once he's falling off. This will slow Mario down to a walking speed him down the right amount to finish with a for flagpole glitch. In 8-4, framerules no longer dictate the pace Because time stops when Mario touches the This plant mysteriously disappeared. What happened? Well, 8-4 is a maze level where you have to Until you enter a pipe, each room loops infinitely a certain point. This unloads every enemy on screen, including In the first room, the reset point happens so the plant is unloaded just before Mario This jump is frame perfect. Niftski can't jump before leaving the pipe walking speed cap first, and he can't jump This is a wall jump. We've already seen how Mario can end up So, if he's lined up correctly with the the wall, Mario can stand for one single frame, He also turns around to accelerate faster A certain other speedrunning YouTuber told are pixel perfect. (SummoningSalt: That meant it had to be That's just a bag of lies. As a way to be more forgiving towards the player, he will snap up The vertical range to land on a block is four pixels. The furthest out where Mario can stand on In the context of a wall, that's two pixels But Mario moves by two and a half pixels per If that happens, the window to jump is two Here, though, Niftski was only two pixels This fast acceleration works the same as in Normally, when coming out of the pipe, Mario speed before he has to jump off. So, he's forced to keep walking speed until With a fast acceleration, he's able to reach up to five frames instead of only two. Then, he turns around and enters this pipe The way this works is the inverse of the 4-2 The room Mario will be sent to when entering this point. It's faster to scroll the screen this far, than it is to keep going and enter the intended He actually makes the screen scroll one pixel to go to the water section, which costs a But, if he had been one pixel short instead, he tried to aim for the pixel perfect turnaround, For this part, Niftski holds down right. While Mario is swimming, the right input is it's overridden by the down press. But why? The reason is quite simple: when Mario is walking speed when holding right, and he gradually Because he slows down instantly when holding spans, it's faster to hold down and right He also has to land in front of the pipe, Despite what his manually activated timer The final time is calculated without the shadow Like every other random event in this game, number generation function, which produces frame. The pattern can be further manipulated by at all. Niftski knew what sort of patterns to expect, get an easier Bowser pattern to deal with. A comprehensive list of Bowser patterns was spanning over 5 minutes. This run's hammer pattern correlates to after accounting for the 260 frames before To achieve this time, Niftski stood on the He set a time that only two years ago, was But there is one question left to answer. Why is this speedrun perfect? The answer is very simple: it's not perfect. Nonetheless, it can still be said with near-100% of Super Mario Bros. speedruns. 4:53 is almost undoubtedly impossible to achieve a game that's been turned inside out for We know this because of tool-assisted speedruns. If you don't know what a TAS is, please Tool-assisted speedruns are often mislabeled often are not. In the case of Super Mario Bros. though, the of the game that is physically possible. It clocks in at 4:54.265. Now, let's see what little time is left achievement, and absolute perfection. How much can each level be improved? 1-1? It can't. 1-2? No. 4-1? Uh-huh. 8-1? Nope. 8-2? No. 8-3? Perfect as well. This leaves two levels: 4-2 and 8-4. In 4-2, the TAS is one framerule faster than It does so thanks to the age old bump strategy. When Mario bumps into a block, the screen moving. This allows Mario to offset his position to bump. For the wrong warp to work, Mario needs to regular screen position, which leaves a single The TAS gets two 10-pixel bumps and manages spare. But there are multiple issues that prevent First, the TAS does fast accelerations everywhere. Once at the start, once after each bump, two the pipes. Also, the walking speed trick is used in two When Mario lands from a jump and B is not instantly, instead of the gradual deceleration This trick is already being used in the common slow down to avoid fireworks. It can also be used on this pipe: the fastest B and land, then press left. The TAS combined this trick with subpixel of 13 subpixels per frame without scrolling spent slowing down. Finally, with one more walking speed trick, this turnaround alone is faster by 4 frames When combining everything, these minuscule 8 or 9 frames over what could realistically So, with this strategy, humans come up just There is, however, one alternate strategy It requires a very rare 11-pixel bump off The exact amount of displacement that a bump Mario's position, subpixel position, and per frame. The wall will push Mario a variable amount to move to the right quicker if his subpixel If everything lines up perfectly, an 11-pixel By combining this unicorn bump with a left-facing 9-pixel bump, a pixel perfect stop to enter in the warpzone, 4-2 can be completed on the to spare. This is all theoretical, though, because while doubtful that anyone would be able to pull It's impossible to understate just how incredibly As it turns out, Niftski has done it once half a year. Don't get me wrong, this is still orders in this game, but it is technically possible. The walking speed trick has also been used It could potentially hold the key to making There are 20 frames left to match the TAS. They can be found in 8-4. Let's do a room by room breakdown of those In the first room, a double fast acceleration The first one saves five, the second one saves Over the years, many people have practiced frame of time save. More recently, this practice has been even With this method of playing out a single room to match the TAS in every single room except been saved, but that sixth is still just out It's expected to be saved at some point When that happens, we will be able to say by itself, and 8-4 into each individual room, speedrun over 8 different segments. For now, though, one frame is left to save In the wall jump room, a fast acceleration The walljump Niftski did was optimal, but, sacrificed one frame to set up his subpixels A perfect walljump without this setup would in this room. In the turnaround room, two frames could be On top of that, six additional frames could acceleration to the left, which is possibly 4-2. They combine for 8 frames in this room. The water room can be played frame perfectly level. Niftski lost one frame to touching the ground Finally, one more fast acceleration in the of which have been saved in practice before. And that's it. Beyond these 68 hundredths of a second, the improved. As time goes on, this record will be broken. But as 8-4 gets squeezed until it's bone harder to save. The era of breaking barriers and setting milestones Yet, somehow, the chase for perfection continues.