It seems like every year pro athletes in new record breaking deals, but not contracts. In fact, a lot of one to a surprising degree on The National Football League had some That makes sense, since the NFL is sports leagues in the U.S. But on average, it's not paying its players MLB and the NBA. There are three big reasons why NFL structure, salary caps and As for the NBA, well, their In addition to having a higher average money off the court than their That's partly because NBA players have a U.S. as of 2019. It's the second most popular NBA star LeBron James land won Nike. That could pay him one So why do players in America's different salaries in order First, we have to understand Player contracts are partly based on The number of games in the season. The number of teams in a league and NFL teams have 53 players on an active has 15. The NFL season is There are 32 teams that play In total, there are The NBA has 30 teams across its league bringing the total amount of Then there's the MLB, which has the three leagues during There are 30 MLB teams that play 162 games played collectively. Even though teams across all three spending on star players in terms of ranks dead last out of the three. A lot of it boils down to basic math. The NFL plays the least number of games greatest number of players. There are 1,696 active In the MLB, there are 877. And for the NBA there's 439. Then there's the number of teams. Every league has a common pool of every season. The more teams there are, The size of the cash pool has a signed by each league. Ironically, more games doesn't directly translate leagues. So when you take a look at the NFL has the highest percentage Call the big four, which is the three the NFL. Their fan base is massive. It's almost it's almost population sort of reports some The length of season thing is actually think about it, scarcity of games. Right, could potentially work There's just a concentrated level of games. Each year, the NFL billion dollars. The NBA billion dollars and the MLB billion dollars. And so the players receive dollar. And that is 51 cents out That is the NBA Enterprise. That is the NBA. And that the local agreements, the national any type of broadcast agreement is basketball related income. 51 cents of it is delivered to salary cap slash luxury tax system. But player pay isn't It also has a whole lot to do with and the rules. Each league agreement with player unions. Every league has its own set of rules players. It's called a The CBA is a set agreed terms the league itself. It covers everything wages, practice requirements, health Each league has its own CBA and in of standards of how One core component of the CBA Every league has a common pool of each season. The bulk some of that rights deals. Another key component of It is the total amount of money each spend on player salaries. In 2019, the NBA salary million dollars. The NFL salary cap was set to 188.2 million dollars. And the MLB technically They have a tax system in place The salary cap helps create competitive prevents, richer teams from signing The NFL has a hard cap, meaning that salary cap no matter what. The NBA is a little bit more lax. It has a soft cap. The league issues a base salary cap long as they pay a luxury tax. But there's a limit to how much a You are able to exceed it You're able to exceed it That's the Larry Bird exception. You're able to sign a player Under the mid-level exception, you're able bring you higher over the salary So we have a lot of exceptions to And that encourages owners and teams to goals and encourages them to be able necessarily. Choose between one Luxury tax limit helps prevent bigger York and Chicago from And so we agreed to put in place our six month lockout so that if usually about 20 million dollars over the right now. Then you're going to You can do it, but you have to pay. And the tax is pretty significant. It's more it used to be dollar for for dollar. And it allows those teams to go. They have a window. They're going to take Iran. They're able to pay that tax As for the MLB, they have something but it works a bit differently. Historically, the MLB has always seen market teams and small market teams. In 2003, the MLB CBA implemented a salary cap. It's called MLB teams that exceed the predetermined this tax. Unlike the NBA, So a team can pay over as much as and are okay with facing league For 15 years the New York Yankees threshold or loss of draft picks. The team paid over 341 million dollars 2017. Another very important part of contracts. A fully guaranteed contract ensures full value of their Unlike the MLB and NBA, not all Even though on paper, NFL players mean they'll see all the Unlike the NBA and MLB, guaranteed contracts NFL. Take the Dereck Carr's contract is a five Of that 125 million dollars, little guaranteed. Compare that to the The pitchers contract is a six year, fully guaranteed. That means no matter home all 126 million dollars. Generally speaking, across all three kinds of contracts, rookie Once a player completes their rookie deal, contract as a free agent for the NFL. Most first round rookies in franchise contracts. If you're looking at a receiver guys, you're looking at five And the first two to three years fully guaranteed. But pass that you get protecting that player against being bonus. So signing bonuses, so you have the preparation, which you think an where that 20 million If it's a five year contract or even prorated contract over five. So other than first round rookies no regulations forcing a team to player's contract. Of all veteran contracts in guaranteed contracts. Five of those contracts are worth over contract is for more than one year. Despite the NFL being famous for full, the MLB and NBA are known million dollars. They're MLB contracts are pretty straightforward The value of the contract is contracts length. So let's say you and you're going to come up with one The team with another number It's not like you're gonna be So it's gonna be based on And then with that they own the team they go to arbitration. So it's like discusses after February, I believe. And then with that, they either pick the in between or anything. So they kind of based on the statistics the league and they're going to So it's how you put yourself in contract or you're going to Nba contracts are very similar The Golden State Warriors player Steph million dollar contract in 2017, meaning dollars each year. So even if he 40 million dollars. Another key difference is that some NBA off the court in 2018. Three of the top 10 athletes in endorsement deals were NBA players. No player in the top 10 Endorsement deals are huge It allows them to make a steady Players can sign endorsement deals with deals can prove to Well, after a player He retired back in 2011. Please continue to lend Since then, brand endorsement deals have because basketball has more of an football. And NBA stars have a As for the MLB, Mike Trout has history, worth over 426 Trow also makes an estimated 2.5 million dollars from Compare that to NBA D has a four year 164 million But when you count in sponsorship In 2014, Durant signed a 10 year hundred million dollars. And sneaker deals are LeBron James annual income from his dollars a year. For comparison, back the biggest sneaker deal in the NFL, years. So LeBron just went looked His most recent post is a picture of So really strong promotion quality. It's a product placement thing, single And it generated about 1.6 million total. Interactions So because of the quality of the it's getting. It could be worth anywhere million dollars in an adjusted add promotion and engagement And LeBron James has a lifetime endorsement 1 billion dollars over time. The super max contract is unique to the contracts in sports. Players like Steph Curry and Russell 200 million dollars. It essentially boils down to this. It's a way for teams to extend players seven to nine years to a The super max contract is valued up to that year. It begins. And then there's which is tacked on to each of Super max contracts were It was the league's solution to the market teams or winning teams. These contracts were designed to incentivize the teams that drafted them. But before a player qualifies for They must meet a Plus, players need to receive high most recent seasons or be named the seasons. Klay Thompson missed out on being was ineligible to get Players who have signed super max on a team and can cripple the If you make it so that one star takes be harder for you to be able to go players. And so absolutely, I salary that you're paying to any to be to attract other players, you're doing it using room under the less ability. You have to go out to Essentially, if a team decides to offer up to a third of the team's roughly two thirds of the team's salary 14 other players. So far, only five players have signed if super max contracts So what does the future It all depends on the changes that league's collective Just take the NFL. It's the most profitable league compared to players are not seeing the But new changes are about to be made at the end of the 2020 season. The NFL Players Association and the NFL new CBA for the 2021 season. For most the last 10 weeks, about Chicago, are a park nearby. Negotiating with the Players Association The MLB CBA is also set to expire adjustments to the As for the NBA, the league reached an The deal will continue through the 2023 for six months in 1998. There was no basketball until We were locked out again in 2011. There was no basketball And so we've certainly demonstrated that, for what's right. We have I think it's expected that we're going leverage and ability we have.