Please come and see me , come on, come on, please, please sit down, sit down, the eldest young master of the He family, the young master of the He family is going to [ __ ] me. This is my grandson who is one of the best swordsmen in Xiangxi. Good, good, good, good, good, good, catch him. , good, good, good, really good, good, good, according to the ancestors' martial arts rules, if no one walks over this ladder knife within one stick of incense It shows that no one has challenged the eldest young master of the He family. This Peng Gong sword will belong to the eldest young master of the He family. Arrest, arrest, take your dog's paws away. The dragon is coming. The dragon is coming . Look, the dragon is coming. You are so brave, let me take him down, take him down, take him down , don't move, don't move, wait, today is the Festival of Swords, I am not coming down the mountain to fight a thousand battles, our brothers are also here to compete for swords today. You gangsters still want to seize the sword. That is just a daydream. The notice clearly states that all the villagers of Jiudong and the descendants of Peng Gong can come to compete to seize the sword. I, Long Mingtian, am also a descendant of Peng Gong and a villager of Jiudong. To seize the knife, which rule did you break? Yes, the knife thieves are also villagers. Why can't they seize the knife? Yes, seizing the knife requires hard work. Why should it be successful? If you have the ability. Just let Long Jingtian win. That's right. Master He, if you can defeat Long Jingtian, you will be considered a hero. Right, yes, yes, yes, how can Mr. He continue to sing this drama today since it is a drama? The play must have an ending, and it is often an unexpected ending. 2 This matter has been arranged. Since grandpa came uninvited, we will make it impossible for him to escape. Since it is Long Jingtian and he is seeking death, we will make it happen. he Our He family has always been very consistent. If you have something to say, Long Jingtian, since you consider yourself a descendant of Peng Gong and a villager of Jiudong, then let's act according to the rules. Since I'm here to seize the sword, of course I have to. Everyone is convinced of the rules about fighting for swords. I, Long Jingtian, am very good at it. He is too powerful. How confident is the young master of the He family that he is staggering him in the fighting? I didn't expect that this ruthless bandit can actually climb up there. You can still pass these greased knives according to the rules of the ancestors. Since ancient times, the two heroes below have competed in the ring. Whether they have any objections or not, there is no dispute between life and death. The two heroes compete to seize the knives. The dragon starts to scream in the sky. If you don't throw the knife, I will still I can spare your life, you useless toad, but you still dare to boast that I made delicious food for you in Haikou? What is it really? Swan meat, yes, it's very delicious. You even want to eat a toad? What kind of toad is it? Well, grandpa, well, well, well done, well done. It's not shameful to lose in the contest. Peng Gong's descendants wiped their own necks. That's a shame for their ancestors. Sir, it's really unexpected. Long Jingtian was defeated. Why bother? What, what kind of black flag will come? The dragon will call the sky to seize the sword. Surround them and follow the rules set by Peng Gongzu. If any of the heroes of Jiudong Eighty-one Village want to seize the sword, they can come on stage to compete with the challenger. Otherwise, when the incense burns out, the Peng Gong sword will belong to the dragon heroes. The Peng Gong sword must not fall on it. In his hands , please remember that the low-level mistakes that the knife bandits slipped through ten years ago cannot happen again. Don't be afraid of ten thousand, just in case you go to add more people and make all the family's money known. Grandpa Let's go, let's go, go down, let's not let Peng Gong's sword leave Zusi Town even half a step. Come on, brothers, even if you risk your life, you still have to take Peng Gong's sword up the mountain. Come on, Teacher Yang, you are not feeling well. If you feel unwell, go and come to Teacher Yang. Look at the situation. If my father doesn't let people out, something big will happen. Yes, the time for burning incense is running out. Why don't you say anything? Where did you just say it? Sir, we just talked about Yunwu Leicha . Yes, there are sesame beans in Yunwu Leicha. It can be used as a drink and can also fill your stomach. Sir, are you hungry? The line is here. Sir, what do you want to eat? I will make it. I will do it now. Don't be hungry. You came just in time to talk to us. Teacher Yang is outside. He wants to see you. Please invite him in. Mr. Shen and Teacher Yang are here in a hurry. I don't know what you want to do. Mr. Shen, something big is going to happen outside soon. Something big. After this incense burns, this Peng Gong sword will belong to me, Mr. Long. Is there any hero in the audience who is dissatisfied? He can come to the stage to compete. Today, he lost hundreds of dollars. I can't let them take the knife away even if I don't have my life. I'm afraid I won't be able to get out of Zusi Town if we don't fight hard. As long as I raise my hand to take the knife, we can do it. As long as he dares to take the knife, we will shoot him. The sword is already at war outside. Mr. Zhang must be aware of the power of the Peng Gong Sword. If Long Jingtian is to take the Peng Gong Sword away, Mr. He will not agree that thousands of villagers will stain the Peng Gong Temple with blood. Long Jingtian is also a human being. You can't be unreasonable. He has to use his ability to take the Peng Gong Sword. After burning a stick of incense, the Peng Gong Sword will be his. Sir, sir, sir, do you just want to watch the Jiudong children kill each other? My ears are numb from your noise, and I'm sleepy too. You don't have to accompany me. There's not much time left. I, Long, will stay with you until the end. Don't move. Don't move. Be honest. Any hero who refuses to accept can come up and seize the sword from us. Brothers, why are you here to seize the sword? You guys don't believe in evil and want to come up and compete with us. That's right. We are here to seize the sword. The younger generation is intimidating. Fortunately, we have stepped on the sword ladder beforehand and can't pass it. There is no need to talk about it. Three heroes, which one of you will come first and catch the big knife together? I'm afraid there is a fraudulent division of labor and cooperation. They each go through a level to catch him. It's okay, but now I have the upper hand. According to the old rules of our ancestors, whoever wins first has the right to go second. Add a game. I, Long, am a gambler by nature. Since we are on the Sword Festival, let's bet on the sword. Bet on the pair of swords. Bet on the sword. The three heroes have no objection. The notice only said that there was a sword competition. Why did it ever say that there was a bet? Knife The three of you ask the ancestors of the Nuo Master whether the rule is that the party that wins first has the right to add another game. As for what kind of gambling method is gambling with the knife, the gambler is blindfolded to show fairness and justice. There are four gambling tools and knives in total. Mouth, if you guess wrong, you will lose your life. Three heroes, what do you think? Do you dare to come and bet? It's up to you. I will take Peng Gong's sword. Since you are gambling with your life with the sword, it can only be decided by the individual. You brothers should think carefully about the creation. Brother, remember, I don't want to talk too much about magic and ghosts with you. How do you catch me and tell me? Brother, you tied it too tightly and it's painful. I'm going to die. Stop talking nonsense. If you guess wrong, I'll have to wait for your head to fall off. , Don't you feel uncomfortable? Guess, kid, how many knives are shown behind you? Wu Shanhu, if you can guess right, I will obey you today. If you can guess it correctly, you will be really amazing. This is it. He said, there are several knives and only one knife scares me to death. You see, I'm right. The big knife has a handle. I 'm afraid someone in the audience gave the signal. You asked Ma Sima Scarai to get a piece of black cloth . It seems that Long Jingtian has found out. Boy, how many knives are you holding up this second time ? Can you guess correctly? If you can guess right, that would be weird. Today next year will be your death anniversary. I'm here to see you off. four knives Guessed it right, guessed it right, it's so risky, it's great. Teacher Yang is here for the second level. Which of you brothers will come first to go up to Daoshan? I will be the second brother. Remember, Brother Chengru, you must not make a mistake. Don't worry, wait a minute. I don't know what Mr. Long has to say to the younger generation. I don't know whose knife shop made these knives with big handles. Since the knife has a reputation inside, just pierce it. As long as he has the guts to test the knife, you can do it right away. After breaking through, the He family's face was wiped out, but a fight was just in front of them. These knives were struck by our brothers. Since these knives were struck by you, I asked to change the order of the knives. That's right. This is in line with Peng. The principles of fairness, justice and openness set by the ancestors. What did he say? He was reading out the rules for winning the Peng Gong Sword. Brothers, it would be bad if the second mule couldn't remember it. Cheng Ru was dazzled by it. Can he remember? I'm afraid this kind of memory is very poor. If he can't remember, then it depends on his nature. Or Er Muluzi has a good memory. I can't remember it anyway . Er Muluzi can't remember. Brother Chengru, okay? , Amazing, great, great. Young students, thanks to their good memory, there is still a person of this caliber in Zusi Town. Erluozi , your memory is so good, Chengru, I didn't expect you to remember everything. It all depends on you. Why do you rely on me? Brother Chengru, who was trained during the endorsement, are you okay? It's okay. You say it's okay when you're okay. Look at your sweat. I'm okay. The future is scary! Boss, it seems that you want to compete with me, Mr. Long. Yes, our brothers are here today to attack Peng Gongdao. You are a young man. If you have the ability, just come. Okay, big brother, catch him . I am Shi Boping's son, Shi Datouman. I don't know if I can change my surname in my descendants. I am Shi Yun, Fei Shi Datou. You are Shi Boping ten years ago. Brother Shi's son is none other than Datou boy. He is good at swordsmanship. I didn't expect this boring gourd to be here. With this skill, it seems that there is hope to seize the sword this time. He will be admitted in the future. Qingtai is optimistic. He is the number one swordsman in western Hunan. He is According to Peng Gong's ancestral training, the winner of the competition h) can wear Peng Gong's sword for one day. If he can break a bowl with one sword, he can wear Peng Gong's sword for ten days . He has good sword skills. It's really awesome. Good sword skills can break a bowl. The sword-winning hero of this year's Sword Festival is Shi Yunfei, Peng Chengru, Wushan Tiger Hero Ke Saber Ten Days, good grandpa, isn't it just to welcome a bunch of customers? It's a small thing. As for putting on such a big show, do you think it's a small thing? Is this an ordinary customer? Think about it again. You see, the future of our He family has been put on others. Why do you still say it is a trivial matter? You don't understand anything, but you are willing to take care of it. But didn't you say it in the letter? That person named Zhang is traveling incognito this time. I didn't show my identity, but I kept my head hidden. You said you were making such a big show, you know, you know [ __ ], you know why a dignified leader of the First Division came to Zusi Town for a private visit incognito. Use your brain and think about it, okay, brother, what the hell, you haven't seen anyone since early in the morning. Did you go gambling again ? You agreed to pick up Sister Zhilan and Brother Chengru today. It's already noon, and I haven't seen him back yet, brother. , don't do it. You know how to bet all day long. You must be able to win this game. Unless I encounter a ghost in broad daylight, it doesn't necessarily mean that this person is unlucky. You might see a ghost in broad daylight. Open, open, open this one. I can't open the letter. I'm afraid I'm cheating Brother Qi. What's going on? You look so bad. You really saw a ghost . Stop talking nonsense. I need to urinate. Can you take care of it? Brother Qi, hurry up! It'll be late. The young master really wants to get angry. Stop talking nonsense. Brother Qi, I've been rolling the dice for a long time. You don't necessarily have to wait until the iron tree blooms before you dare to open the dice cup. I'll help you knife bandit kid. I'll take care of your seventh brother another day. Don't worry if something falls . You'll still have the chance to win so much money in the future. You're glorious. Winning money counts as your ability. Losing money counts as you deserve it. Then you won't. If you win less, he likes to lose. What does it have to do with me? I promised Xian'er. Give her a silver lock. If I don't win more, how can I give it to her? The girl with good water is gone. Wait, I get out of the way, get out of the way, get out of the way. get out of the way, get out of the way Get out of the way, get out of the way, get out of the way, miss, hurry up, master, miss, put it down, put it down, grandpa, brother, why are you Suzhen, what are you doing here? Sister Zhilan wrote a letter saying that she will be home today and I want to pick her up, grandpa, you guys You are waiting for someone here. Then wait next to it. Okay, okay, you can wait here. Go back early. It's such a grand scene. It's full of firecrackers and gongs and drums. Is it better to marry a wife or a girl? Are you going to pick someone up? Why did the gods and bodhisattvas ask him to invite the He family like this? Let's see what kind of greeting Zhang Shaoxun, what kind of army is coming to this Zhang Shao, what kind of pomp is big enough, and there is an army coming here. He has a strange surname. Ignore him with the surname Jun. We'd better not interfere with matters related to the He family. Brother, the situation is not right and it's almost the twelfth lunar month. There are so many people bringing mats and the river breeze is not cool enough. There are tricks in the bamboo mat. You will know if you say it is a cold soldier or a hard fire. Try it, boss. Let's grab a bowl of tea and have a big brother. I'm sorry, big brother. I'm sorry that you didn't heat it. Forget it, forget it. Forget it, it's not in the way, it's not in the way, it's not hot, it's not in the way, it's not in the way, sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry , it's okay, it's okay, it's not in the way, sorry, boss, please have another bowl. It's hard fire. You see, what's the origin of this? It could be this. That said, they are here to create a scene for the He family. No, it's not like that. If they are here to create a scene for the He family, they should cut off their escape route and force them. I'm facing the water, but it seems the situation is the opposite now. I just don't want the boat to get close to the dock. There's nothing to stop the boat from being robbed on the water . They want to rob the boat, but Er Mule and Zhilan are still on the boat. That's what I'm worried about. If they attack He's family, It's none of our business whether He is alive or dead. But if they want to rob the ship, we can't help them. But there are so many of them, we can't stop the snakes and the seven-inch geese. It's impossible that there are no masters among these groups. When the plate is right, we will pick up the bottom of the plate and get out of the way. Get out of the way. Get out of the way. What are you doing, young master? You don't know that there is something urgent to do today. You know, I have diarrhea. I have diarrhea and squeeze. I'll knock on this, knock on whatever , light some incense, grab the firecrackers, wait for the guests to get off the boat, hurry up and look at something, go get the incense , go, go, I'll make some noise, startle the plate, you stare at the seven Brother, you scared me to death. Go, go, go. I'm busy with business. Go away. Brother Qi, what are you doing? Serious Brother Qi, you're angry, you're angry, you're angry. Big, big, big. What's going on? I didn't move. Even a firecracker, you don't understand what's the use of you. Anjing, I'm optimistic about it. Find and take away the cigarette stall in the middle. As long as Zhilan and Er Mule can get off the boat, we won't cause any trouble. I know it in my heart. Go ahead and pack it up. Okay, show it to Zhilan, it's Suzhen and his masters. They're at Zusi Town. They're copying the guy. Go, go as fast as you can, do n't move. Master, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up. The master is holding a steel knife in his hand. Ninety-nine kills are not possible. Stop the Black Flag Club. Black Flag will hand over the gun, Master He. If you offend, use it. If you have something to say, stop talking nonsense. I, He Rentai, the heroes of the Black Flag Club, are polite to you. It's hard work coming from afar. Old man's eyes are clumsy. I can't take care of you. Just ask for as much ocean as you want. I'm sorry. Mr. He. Brothers, if you don't ask for money today, then when you come to Zusi Town, you are coming to our He family. We are the guests of the He family. You can take whatever you like. Brothers, if you don't pick anything, you will take your fancy on this distinguished guest on your boat. You want to invite him back to the mountains for a bowl of water and wine. He wants to kill or hack us. Come from the He family, what are you doing to others? He Rentai, who is this distinguished guest under my sword? You are more innocent than us in our hearts. Brothers, we have accompanied guests all the way to your door just to bring you the Julong sword in person. words You want to use the strength of Jiang soldiers to support your waist. You made the wrong calculation and sail the ship away. Be honest, let me sail the ship, sail the ship, and the heroes on the ship, please see clearly. Our He family has more guns than you. Twice you go, can you go? Brothers, if you dare to come, I am willing to risk my life to play with you. As long as you are not afraid of hurting the wrong guest, feel free to do it. Grandpa, you two have something to do. My friends, there are my family members on the boat. Let them get off. What are you going to do? There are members of my family on the boat . Let them get off . You two more people are gone. Have you admitted the wrong person? I am just a tobacco seller. Do you admit it? You are innocent in your heart and don't let anyone go. Don't think about it. Be careful. Old Five, Fifth Master, Fifth Master. , Old Fifth and Fourth Brother, let's go where the boat is sailing. Let's go together. There are my family members on the boat. Let them go. You can go again. Fourth Brother, we can't sail the boat. If we want to go, let's go. Where can't we go on the boat? If we want to go, let's go together. Mr. He, your granddaughter is in my hands and I want your granddaughter's life, so I will let our brother, Fifth Master, go. You made a wrong calculation. Brother, our surname is not He. Grandpa, Amei, brothers from the Black Flag Society, these two people are with Our He family has nothing to do with you. You used my granddaughter to scare us. You looked down on me. Who am I? I am He Rentai . If they don't let go, you will let me go. Otherwise, I will really Let's do it, grandpa Wait, look, look at this, this, what are you doing? Heroes on the ship, heroes on the shore, everyone listen to me. You hit me with a knife, and I put a knife on your neck. Is it fun? What if both families lose their heads? If we die together, it's not a loss-making deal. Let me see. Let's discuss it. What's the discussion? Let's put down our knives together and you can go your own way. We'll cross our single-plank bridge. The well water will not interfere with the river water. It's better than both families losing their money together. No, the people on the ship can't exchange your brother's life for the lives of this ship's people. Is your life that valuable? You can use this brother's life to exchange the life of He's sister, whatever you want. , this is how a good man can do it. With a word and a whip, I count my brothers now. Believe it or not, your hand will be broken as soon as I exert my strength. But believe it or not, your descendants will be broken faster than my eldest brother's hand. It turned out that there was a hidden trick, I took a wrong look, brother, what kind of man is he who talks without keeping his words? Who is it? Why are you still pretending to be confused? You put down the knife at the same time, and you are here to play dirty again. What did you say to me? You wrongly blamed me, this good man. I just said that I counted one, two, three. My elder brother and this brother put down the knife together, but I have only counted to two until now. You count three. It's over. Everyone, open your eyes and see clearly. To be a witness, my eldest brother and the brother on the ground have no swords in their hands. The two families are talking about money and goods. Tong Sou Wu Bu does not lose the other. Forget it, right? Fourth brother, he is better than us. If you admit it , you are a hero. What will happen to our brothers? If you ask me, my eldest brother said before that our family members are on the boat and let them go. We don't owe each other. You have the upper hand now and you are willing to let us go. You have to pay back your capital, and I didn't ask for interest. I agreed, Mr. He. You have many people and guns, but your distinguished guests are still on the ship. Although I have few people, I can still get a few backers before I die. As long as you guys Put it down, I will let you go on the road. A gentleman's word is true . It is difficult for a horse to catch up. It is easy to walk. Come on, come on, let's go, let's go. I don't know the names of these three heroes. Please leave your name. I do n't need it. Got it Hillbilly, if you don't have a big name, that's not what you said. Brother Ma fell into the hands of three people today. He is convinced that he lost. There must be an explanation in front of the mountain dragon's sword. I know which hero he lost to. Please pay homage to the dragon. It's really offending that our brothers blocked his old man's business today just to take over his own family . I hope you can forgive me and stop disturbing his old man's ears. The mountains and rivers will eventually go away. Shi Datou, get out of my way. A man's words must be fulfilled, and he must not be allowed to make them. Grandpa, once he speaks, his actions must be resolute. This is the ancestral motto of our He family. How about subduing the crowd in Zusi and putting away the gun, Mr. Zhang? , you are shocked, Brother Peng. I didn't expect that the elegant style could have such martial arts and skills. It's really eye-opening. I admire you and don't dare to take it seriously. I just learned some three-legged cat kung fu when I was a child. But Boss Zhang doesn't show his face in person, Zhang Shaoxun, the commander of the 32nd Division of the National Revolutionary Army, Commander Zhang, is faster than you. Why is there such a master in Zusi Town? You just said that he is still a junior. All three of them are juniors. The one with the biggest knife and the fastest is only about 20 years old , Lao Wu. How did you draw the knife at that time? Now tell me again. Where did your knife fall? It's the same as now. Lao Wu, you remember correctly, right? He can be as fast as a big sword. Lao Wu was right. All the brothers present at the time saw that the young man did have such a fast knife . Isn't the sword with a big sword faster? Why did he draw the big sword by himself? Did he take it? The knife thrown by the brother is more convenient than the handle of the big knife. Is it faster to pick up other people's swords than to draw the knife yourself? The handle of the big knife didn't see the three disciples move their hands as if they were one person. He took it from the brother's hand. You don't even need to look at the knife. It's as if the knife was originally in his hand and it fit so tightly. Really, the three young men, three hands and three pairs of feet, look like they only have one head. One on one, his knife is not much slower than mine. The knife is as fast as me. It looks like this Zusi Town is going to play a role . Cheers. Cheers.