hurry up Come on, come on Listen carefully Hear me say I'm hungry It means you can go in. OK Ke Ye Mr. Liu is coming soon Go out and greet him. clear Wait a moment Bring more people Pay attention to the outside good Let me go now Why did you tie me up? Sister, are you hungry? I'm not hungry What do you want to do? I told you, but you don't understand I'll get you something to eat. You don't want to act at all You don't care about the people. You're just doing it for the money sister I want my sister and I to have a good life. Is there anything wrong with me doing this? How could you...? Why can't I? What are you going to do? Sister, we have suffered since childhood. Being bullied We are poor But is it our fault that we are poor? Now you and I I finally climbed up I have money Why can't I take that money? The money I deserve that money. Sister, I tell you I, Xiao Ke, only need to live for one day I have to live like a human being. I want those Everyone who has bullied us knows Anyone who has bullied us Let them Tenfold, a hundredfold, a thousandfold Give it back to me ten thousand times Sister, listen to me. You believe me After everything is over We have money. After having money My brother will take you away from here. Let's go to a good place Let's build a big house Let's live the rest of our lives comfortably. sister Sister, you have to wait for me good I understand. I won't force you anymore. But you let me go first. Okay? Sister, I will definitely let you go But not now Sister, I'm sorry. Please bear with me a little more. don't want don't want sister... Sister, be obedient. Sister... come Sister, have a good sleep. Wait until you wake up My brother will take you away from here. Let's live a good life sister Walk Liu Juren What should we say when we meet later? Just do it yourself The goods are here move Originally I just wanted to make a bigger noise. I really have to do it this time It's okay, we are just following orders. Just be smart Brother, we don't have any shares. It's not worth risking your life Keep your voice down Hurry up! Come on, quick Follow up quick Keep up hurry up... Follow up sister Walk Ayi sister Zhou Jue As you and me Shouldn't I save you? Stop it, hurry up Are they all here? All are here We have surrounded this place Once you are rescued, we will start arresting you. Miss Yuchu Most of the people here are innocent. You mustn't hurt them. Who? Go fast careful Ayi Ayi Ayi Ayi... Ayi, what's wrong with you? Are you okay? Are you okay, Yi? fine Ayi, how is it? fine... Dasha You take Ayi back to the county government first Wait until we come back No, I stay Listen, go! Ayi, go quickly Let's go Miss Yuchu Thank you for saving my life Mr. Zhou, you go first. I'll stay and help them. No need for you Zhou Jue Yubing is still waiting for you in the county government office This is for you. Let's go Walk What's going on? Walk Brothers, grab your weapons and follow me quick Don't move Don't move Don't run Stop! Squat down...squat down Spare my life, sir. Don't move Crouch down, be quiet. Squat down Ke Ye Go fast Go fast Be careful Walk Don't move, put the gun down. Don't move Don't move Crouch down, be honest Squat past... past Squat Where are the people? Run away Fangirl I ask you Does Xiao Ke have any other hiding place? I have no idea It's not too late to go back for retrial Mr. Ke, why are you here? Didn't I say I would go to your place for a meeting at nine o'clock? What's wrong with you? How about it? How many people are there now? I am a railway worker here There are more than 200 people Over there, old Sun More than 200 people came There are more than 400 There are many more They are coming one after another Good job Thank you for your hard work. but I'm afraid we have to act earlier. In advance? Why? My treasure house was seized by the Qing soldiers My brothers are dead and wounded I escaped by myself. That sister Fang... Let's not talk about this anymore Tight time and heavy tasks The overall situation is the most important So what time should we arrive in advance? 10pm Or the railway company? No, this time we go to the county government County Office... That fake foreign devil Now retreat to the county government You two go and inform Han Dongzi right away. I will inform Zhang Jie now Let's meet at the county government gate at 10 o'clock in the evening good Stop staring at me like that. Weird No, I have to watch you. Otherwise you'll be gone in a blink of an eye. Miss Yuchu Why are you still here? Mr. Zhou and Uncle Li haven't come back yet? What...? Ayi and the others have returned. I'll keep waiting here Go see him. Walk Ayi Did you catch Xiao Ke? Let him run away Yuchu, please let me go. I checked Ayi. good How about it? No big deal I think it's just a mild concussion. Just take a good rest. Fortunately, the wound does not need stitches Ayi I heard you saved Si San. This guy is embarrassed to tell you Let me tell you something Thanks We are all brothers So long-winded Xiao Ke doesn't care about your life or death Why are you still protecting him? You just treat him as dead. The new troops will enter the city tomorrow. If the people revolt You know what the consequences are I just know Qinglong Society in Nanan City There are five industries in total In addition to the Treasure House, there are Xiankeju, Mixianglou Lotte Residence, Lantai Restaurant I know all this. The Treasure House has also been exposed Xiao Ke will never be stupid Hiding in other places Then I don't know Except you don't know Will you say anything else? I really don't know Fangirl What do you want from me? I really don't know Sister, I have something to ask you. You tell me That Uncle Li I always think he's weird. I seem to have seen it somewhere before. But I just can't remember And he's so good. Definitely not an ordinary person Ayi What's wrong? Where is Zhou Jue? Why didn't I come back with you? He is with Uncle Li Go to the representatives of the rights protection association Looking for a representative? Why? Mr. Zhou is worried about Xiao Ke Everything has been arranged Even if Xiao Ke was caught Incidents may still occur So he went to see representatives from all parties. Convince them to give up Have you ever thought about He probably didn't try to dissuade them. To lead them? impossible Mr. Zhou is not that kind of person. Walk... Zhou Jue He Peng, where are you going? What does it have to do with you? listen to me Please don't take action for now. You said no action, no action Then ask the brothers behind me. Do not agree No promise... Everyone calm down. You really can't go He Peng The new army We will soon reach Nanan City. Go at this time They'll definitely hit their guns. I ask you You have the heart to let us brothers Are you going to die in vain? Where did you get the news? Mr. Qian told me this himself. Mr. Qian So you in exchange The hiding place of the Qinglong Society Told them You misunderstood Zhou Jue You repeatedly told us to be patient. Say help us But in the end The foreigners didn't refund a penny. He also worked with the government to wipe out the Qinglong Society No These are all Xiao Ke's tricks. You were all used by him. Zhou Jue, Zhou Jue Today I finally see it clearly You Zhou Jue It was a dog raised by the Qing court. Yes, you are a dog. They can't listen We go first Still want to go Come on, arrest him. yes... Catch it Uncle Li, don't hurt them. superior Go fast Zhang Jie How many people do we have now? It can probably gather more than 200 people. Good, very good So, you organize everyone. At 10 o'clock in the evening, I led everyone to attack the county government office. Ten o'clock But we haven't got all the people here yet. It doesn't matter How many people can we gather? How many people are needed? Things have changed Sun Jian has already set off with his fellow workers Okay, I'll listen to you. Many hands make light work I believe As long as we all work together You will definitely be able to successfully break into the county government I will definitely... That's good That night at ten o'clock Let's meet at the county government gate good... Waiting like this is not a solution Let me go and interrogate Fang Er Now is not the time to be sympathetic She really doesn't know anything. You just believe her. Otherwise I know Fang'er better than you, don't I? Adults, worship... These two people said they wanted to see you. Uncle Li You go down first yes Where have you been? I found a worker representative I wanted to persuade them to give up. Unexpectedly They have been completely bewitched by Xiao Ke Instead, he wanted to kill us. Oh, Chong Liming. The people have gathered here. Their uprising was premature. Yu Chu, gather the troops to protect the gate remember Don't escalate conflicts. Release the Deputies and Hand Over Mary Release the Deputies and Hand Over Mary Release the Deputies and Hand Over Mary Keep the formation Don't shoot without my order. Yes, sir. Release the Deputies and Hand Over Mary Release the Deputies and Hand Over Mary Release the Deputies and Hand Over Mary What was that gunshot just now? have no idea Can you stop it? Yu Chu and the plague dog guard the front door But Yan Xin and his men were guarding the back door. It should be fine for now. You promised Keep me absolutely safe We have tried our best I shouldn't have believed you. When will the new army arrive? You just have to trust us now Listen to what they are shouting outside. You are now the target of public criticism We are the only ones who can protect you Why...why me? Isn't this normal? People need a clear goal A most memorable slogan Of course Xiao Ke will put you on the spot Release Representative Do you want to rebel? I asked you if we were friends You said it would always be Since we are always friends I beg you Stop pushing me. I really don't know Because I treat you as a friend I don't want you to regret it for the rest of your life Although Xiao Ke is the mastermind Do you think Don't you have any responsibility at all? If there is really a river of blood outside Will you ever be able to sleep peacefully in your life? Everyone is at a loss. Being forced to this point Xiao Ke is their leader It's just a matter of course. Now it comes to You're still lying to yourself Stock capital dispute There was a chance for a peaceful resolution Who is stirring up conflict among the parties? It's your brother. If between you If there is no blood relationship Will you still protect him? Current situation The lives of hundreds of people outside hang in the balance. You're only protecting him. You know, back then in Beijing Why am I on his face? Leave a scar? Why? Because I made him make a choice If you two siblings Only one survives. He will choose you Or choose him He chose himself The result is still the same He left you behind and ran away He doesn't even care about your life. How can we care about the safety of the people? Fangirl Now only you can save them. Follow me Release the deputies and hand over Mary Push them back Keep the formation Hand over Mary Release the deputies and hand over Mary How is it? Can it still hold steady? If this continues The situation could get out of control at any time Look at these people's faces. These are all faces of dying people. They will all be killed by your brother. No Xiao Ke is not that kind of person. Release the deputies and hand over Mary elder brother elder brother I am the commander of the Shenjiying Zhengbai Banner Erji Chongliming You surrounded the county government office. Don't you just want an explanation? good I'm going to give you an explanation now. Any requirements You can all tell me Don't believe him. Don't trust him... Don't trust me The person you shouldn't trust is Xiao Ke Ke Ye is our leader If we don't trust him, who can we trust? yes You guys listen to me first Yes, if not him, who else can I trust? Open your eyes See where others are Yes, where is Xiao Ke? yes Where did he go? He instigated you Let you organize your manpower But where is he? Why doesn't it show up? Have you ever thought about this question? He just puts you in front of the gun. Just let you be cannon fodder What are the benefits of Mr. Ke doing this? I don't believe it Yeah, I don't believe it either. I don't believe it. Maybe you guys caught Mr. Ke. Now you are framing him. Hand over Mr. Ke. Hand it over... If someone is really in my hands I would have brought him here with a gun. Negotiated with you The new army will soon enter Nanan City Once they come in You will face a massacre. Do you understand? The new army is really here Zhou Jue is telling the truth This... is true Hand over Mary and we'll go. Yes... Hand over Mary Don't you understand yet? right... The culprit is Xiao Ke It has nothing to do with other people Don't try to deceive us. Let's go Hand the person over Yes, hand him over. Hand him over, hand him over Everyone calm down. Sun Jian, Xiao Ke is not here Everyone depends on you I know You treat me as a lackey of the court. But it doesn't matter I am willing to prove it with practical actions I will always stand on the side of the people. How do you prove it? Yes, how do you prove it? What proof do you have...? listen to me I stay here Waiting with everyone Wait until they find Xiao Ke back. Give everyone a satisfactory explanation You can't do it alone Then add me one more elder brother Before sunrise tomorrow If you don't find Xiao Ke You can do whatever you want with Zhou Jue and me Can't find Xiao Ke Chong Liming will die Everyone will die He won't go back to the Treasure House. In another place Where is it? Xie Fanger, please explain clearly He should hide Our Xie family's ancestral home That place Only he and I know You tell me where Find your brother Maybe there's still time to save Chong Liming. good how's it going? There was an old house where those soldiers were attacked. Xiao Ke is hiding inside Chong Liming had already found the place But I called him away again We can't let him get away this time. Can't run Go, prepare two fast horses yes I'll do it etc. What's wrong? What's wrong? Why is there a wound here? Forgot What's wrong with you...? The name Yang Ming Have you heard of it? Yang Ming No Why are you asking this? nothing Ayi, do you know something? Need to know You must tell me the truth. The girl named Yuchu She asked me the same question. And she also told me Asked me if I knew a man called What's it called... A woman named Ruowan This name sounds familiar to me. but I don't remember Ayi Walk sister What's wrong with you? Ayi, you promised your sister Don't go there again. Ayi... What's wrong with you? He's going through the east gate. You keep chasing I'll intercept him. good We have someone who saw Your people escaped through the back door. Is this your trick? right... Is this your trick? They just went to find Xiao Ke and came back No other plans This is your delaying tactic. They went to get help. Yes or no It must be to call for help. If reinforcements really arrive soon You can just kill me and Zhou Jue to vent your anger But think about it carefully. At the train station When the British delegation was surrounded Who stopped the soldiers from shooting you? It's us You attacked the railway company Who stopped the foreign bodyguards from beating you? It's us too Today you attacked the county government office. These soldiers have guns. But remain restrained Do you really think Don't they dare shoot at you? That makes sense If we are really enemies How can I tolerate it again and again? No sacrifice and bloodshed Think about it the other way around. Who is creating conflicts? Solve all problems with violence Then...then why did Mr. Ke do this? This does him no good. Yes, what are the benefits? What are the benefits? So I implore you all Being able to be here quietly Wait until we catch Xiao Ke The truth will come out Well... just wait like this yes Let's wait here Close the gate quickly yes asshole Catch alive good Ke Yanxin... I have no feeling in my arm. It's daybreak now What else do you have to say? Hand the person over quickly. Yes, hand it over. Hand it over... Hand the person over Hand it over... Please wait for them a little longer. They must You take us as fools? Tie him up for me. Tie up... They delayed until now They just want to send reinforcements to suppress us. We can't sit still any longer. right Let them release the innocent people. Hand over that fake foreigner. Hand it over... Back Hand it over Back Hand it over... Back Back You don't Back Hand it over. Hand it over. Be patient Hold on How long will it take? His face turned pale Broken bones Debris must be cleared first Ke Yanxin, please bear with it for a while Thinking back to Guan Yu When he was scraping his bones to cure the poison He didn't even hum. Why can't I move? Why can't I move my arm? Who was injured? You can jump up and down immediately It'll be fine once the injury heals. Bear with me... Shoulder blade injury If the situation is good Your left arm You can also carry out simple activities in the future If things are bad Your arm is useless. Wagner I tell the truth It's to prepare you mentally. You have to calm down now. Cooperate with my surgery After the surgery I will try my best to help you recover. Okay? Is he okay? Be patient Catch Xiao Ke back Is everything over? Did he confess everything? go out Watch your attitude when speaking Get out Be patient. It's him... He is the one who brought Dachun Several farmers and workers representatives told me Let me catch them. He also bribed me Let me torture them. Torture to death Is there anything you want to say? Dachun Didn't expect I was still alive? Dachun Of course I'm happy that you're alive Don't listen to Magistrate Cao's lies. Have you ever considered us brothers? I...of course I treat you as brothers Look at this money This money is what I want to take out of the city Go find someone to rescue you. You died for me. How could I abandon you? I followed your orders to kill Mary. I followed your orders to assassinate Allen. Even if it costs my life I am willing Why Because I trust you I believe you are really helping us. Really helping the people of Nanan But you want to get rid of Zhou Jue For one's own selfish interests I'm willing to kill you Dachun, listen to me. You are not qualified to be our leader. Take it down sister You didn't say To get this money Share it with everyone? You didn't say Will you come back and take me away? sister Sister, listen to me. Listen to me, sister. You don't care about other people's lives. You don't care about other people's lives. There is no life or death for me Is it right? Is it right? No No, sis. No It's not what you think, sister. I don't want this money anymore All for you I don't want it anymore I don't want it anymore I only want you I only want you I only want you I beg you to help me, please Chong Liming I beg you to help me, please Chong Liming Sister, please ask Chong Liming for me I don't want to die I don't want to die, take me home sister No future It's never been this fruitless. yes I have no future Because I deserve to die I have no future I should die I have no future I'm a bastard, a son of a bitch I'm a bastard, a son of a bitch I'm not a human, sister. I'm not a human, sister. But I am your brother. But I am your brother. I don't have a brother like you. sister sister sister sister... sister open Let me go sister sister sister Save me sister... open sister I am Tan Tianming Commander of the Ninth Regiment of the Beiyang Army Erji Chongliming I have heard of Lord Beile for a long time. This is Mr. Qian, the Minister of Posts and Communications. Mr. Qian Minister of Posts and Communications What a great job! What a pity Lord Baylor I think I'm late. Just a small conflict It has subsided I think it's not just Just a small conflict. The court sent you here. It's really a waste of talent. Lord Beile, you don't know Deal with this mob It's more troublesome than dealing with flies. You drive them away once. They'll come again Constantly on your ears Crying, shouting Yell, yell Only this To calm them down put The Emperor's Edict Qian Kun, Vice Minister of the Ministry of Posts and Communications Against the will of God Deliberately delaying signing Dismiss him from his post Never be an official What's wrong? What's wrong with you? Why did you hide it from me? Uncle Li is Yang Ming Is that right? Ayi Did you know that a long time ago? You speak He's not worthy of being anyone's father. He is ruthless and heartless Not worthy of being my father Not worthy of being yours Why do you make decisions for me? Why? Ayi, have you forgotten? It was him back then Killed everyone in the village But I have the right to know the truth I forgive him I'll seek revenge on him. That's all my business. Ayi Don't stop me Please Lord Cao, please reinstate me. It seems that Mary is trying to win people's hearts. It really cost a lot of money. Compared to building railways Profit after success This is a drop in the bucket Railway construction This matter has come to this point. Can this railway still be built? Tell me first What are you going to do with the money? I think Now the court is facing internal and external troubles Enemies from all sides The money Should be paid into the national treasury For military needs You are always thinking about the safety of the country. As an officer Of course, we regard defending our country as our responsibility This court officer general If everyone was like you That's great. Lord Beile, you are really too kind. This money is owed to the people by the court and Mary Naturally, we have to return it to the people. Compensate the people for the capital they invested in the railway But as far as I know Share capital owed to the people Probably 4.5 million Isn't this little money just a drop in the bucket? These two hundred thousand First distribute to workers and farmers As for those gentry and tycoons Everyone has enough food and clothing It's never too late to pay them back later. Workers and peasants Originally the main force of the rights protection association Once they get the shares I will never come to disturb the government again. So, your soldiers You can also take a break for a while No need to make a big fuss It seems that Lord Belle Are you familiar with those people in the rights protection association? I have been in Nanan for more than a month. I deal with people from the rights protection association every day. I can't tell the name The face is quite familiar That's really great. Then please trouble Lord Baylor Notify all representatives Tomorrow morning at ten Let's hold a share return meeting This money Give it back to them We also need to vigorously publicize this matter I believe, take this opportunity The turmoil in Nanan City It will definitely be appeased Be careful This is valuable stuff. Are you moving back to the railway company? I'm going back to Shanghai What about the railway treaty? Not signing anymore The company has given up on acquiring the railway As for the shares of the surname I'll ask your court for it later. Give up? Why? An empire and a republic This railway It's not certain who it will belong to in the future. Republic of China