- This is the biggest and currently on the market with an asking price of $295 million. It is also the most requested so we're really excited for this tour. Now, this home features of interior space, 21 private nightclub, breathtaking views, situated on this incredible promontory. And let's get started. (eerie bass tone) (upbeat bass music) - The One is a property to all Angelinos for the last 12 years, and worldwide in the last decade, has become this iconic sort of figure. It's kind of bigger than It's an entity. And the reason why Angelinos is because there are so many changes that have taken place now in Los Angeles, which don't allow you For one thing, there are nearly 30,000 cubic yards of excavated to create this, okay. And you are on four up the longest driveway you've ever seen, and landing on top of the hill. One of the highest So for all of those reasons, and then add the icing on the cake, which is a 360 degree view. You are in one of the most sought after and iconic properties (relaxed music) - We're gonna start our Long driveway brings you up here, and halfway through the driveway, you actually have an entrance point to your subterranean garage. And behind the property, we also have an amazing that we're gonna tour later in the video. Now, coming here, we palm trees, amazing scale. And coming to this section, we have the marble walkway I love the moat that they You have a art installation on your right, two massive skylights allowing natural light And before we get in here, I also want to thank the listing agents, Rayni Williams, Branden for allowing us to tour And we will be actually talking to Rayni and Brandon later in the tour. Now, coming back here, the front facade is also clad with marble. I love the grid details This overhead section to light up the entry, and coming here, we have a fingerprint scanner, and your marble door actually Now, coming here, this is where Oversized marble on the floors. We have this art installation right in the center, that rotates. Beautiful chandelier above, I'm gonna talk about the scale because everything in this So grand, and this is You have seating on and sliding glass doors seamlessly takes you to the outdoors. Now, coming back here to the entry, we have this long hallway First, we're gonna check out the office. Now, before we get there, we have one of the staircases And coming here, we have the office. 25 foot high ceilings, walls of glass facing the views. We have water surrounding the entire room, and this corner glass looks Scale is amazing. We have the desk set And the entire room is complimented with Italian lacquer finished cabinetry, with LED lighting, that And on top of that, right above us, we actually have the balcony and we're gonna check that Now, bringing everybody back to the entry. Again, we have the staircase on our left, going up to the second floor. This opening takes us to with a marble pedestal sink, and marble finished And coming here, we have the main lounge. - This is the king's Walls of glass, explosive You have this beautiful art wall, with this 20 foot fireplace, - I mean, this is amazing. And Branden, furniture looks small here. Room is so big, it's insane. How many square foot - I think this is about 3000 square feet. - That's incredible, I mean, these are good sized And it's insane, and you - This is the secondary lounge. This is my favorite lounge because this is where you have the most You have the grand piano, oversized, and then you have the biggest This is the king of the year. And it has one of my favorite art pieces, which is the Murano glass, And you know what that's for? Because this view is why they (dance music) - Now, I'm gonna take I'm gonna bring everybody here. We have the elevator Of course, it opens up to the outdoors. We're gonna check out And coming here, we have gorgeous table right in the center, that currently sits 16 people, but I'm sure you can add few Chandeliers above, and 25 foot high ceilings. Everything about this house is so grand. Now, I wanna take everybody this way. This entire glass panel actually goes into your walk-in wine cellar that is temperature controlled. And these are for your big bottles. And you have seating areas This is mind boggling. We have never seen Now, I wanna bring everybody back to the formal dining room area. This is the main hallway that And coming here, we with this art installation that starts from the second floor ceiling, goes down all the way to the lower level, complemented with a water feature. This is a polished chrome piece. And I'm sure just the installation of this sculpture took over a year. Now, come in here. We have another staircase And this is where we have the art gallery, just an open space, on we have the moat off of the entry. You have your lighting And at the end of this hallway, So let's go quickly check that out. Seating area off of the with a patted back wall, Has a door that opens up to And come in here, I'm trying to figure out because there are so many. Let's quickly check out the Marble floors, marble walk in shower with this mosaic detailed chrome finishes. Toto toilet that opens up as floating vanity, walk in Now, let's go back to the hallway. And at the end of this hallway, we have few powder rooms to serve the first floor of this home. It starts right here, we have a gorgeous marble another Toto toilet, everything you need. Now, coming back to the hallway, We'll be walking a lot in this home. I mean, Mikey, look at the - [Mikey] Yeah, I haven't gotten because I'm a little bit overwhelmed. We've done a lot of walking already, but we've really just - Absolutely, double doors Now, I say library, but this room actually for a cigar lounge, that way and you won't even smell. In fact, Mikey, let's get a close up here. You can see all these I love the veneer of the wood cabinetry and the gloss finish. You have the seating Vintage &quot;Playboy&quot; covers on this side, which is a unique detail. And I personally love those wall sconces that are brass finished and oversized. - [Mikey] And if there's a bunch on the wall, and you're talking - I'm just trying to keep We got a lot to cover on this house, so I'm just trying to keep it quick. It's a cool touch, open and humidors, and everything you need. All right, let's go back to the hallway and continue our tour. By the way, Mikey, can Look at the views here. We have Downtown Los Angeles This is just amazing. Of course, you have opening up to the This is where we have the I'm gonna start our tour on the kitchen. It is super sleek, I love Waterfall edge on the island. This is for sure one we have ever seen on this Glass panels, I mean, look I'm pretty sure this which is something we And of course, you have two induction cooktops with a popup vent. Builtin espresso maker, sorry, Mikey, I'm pushing your left and I wanna have one of these. - [Mikey] We've seen one of those before. - We have tried one of these before. - Yeah, actually in another one of Rayni and Branden's listings. - That is correct, all right. We have two Miele induction Right next to that, we second one on this side, pop up plugs. Very modern, very sleek kitchen. Now, let's go back into the family room so we can check out the Two L-shaped couches, gorgeous coffee table right in the center. I love the chandelier that really ties the space. Of course, you have your Linear gas fire place, Marble clad wall on that side, and sliding glass doors Mikey, let's go check it out. And I also wanna mention, they're still putting some in this estate, they're We cannot tour it all, but we're gonna try to do our best to show you guys everything, right. We have another hallway here, powder room for this part of the home. and coming here, of course, these massive sliding glass As soon as you walk in, Downtown Los Angeles is This is just incredible, the views here, the scale of this property, In fact, Mikey, let's take I love these palm trees that are right in the center of the backyard. To give everybody a quick That's the main lounge We have the bedrooms on the second floor and the lower level that but more importantly, look at these views. And they did a really clever touch here. They have a 400 foot jogging trail that's right below this moat. That way they have the since this property's on a hillside, which allows this moat And from any part of the first you'll look at your views undisrupted. This is simply amazing. I mean, you can literally see the mountains all the way back. Hollywood Hills, Downtown, Pacific Ocean, these are without a doubt, one of the best views we have Mikey, you look a little speechless. - [Mikey] We're just so high up here too. But I was actually looking behind me at the ocean views over here, - Absolutely, now, we're Let's just call it that. We have the jacuzzi Marble floors, even on the outdoor. That's your covered with a massive built in TV. And this is your main pool marble clad, mosaic on the bottom. And you get so much outdoor space. I mean, property is pretty - [Mikey] Yeah. - And not only you get amazing you get a lot of outdoor square footage. And I wanna particularly because you have so many You have an outdoor dining area, another covered seating, And right behind this section, This is without a doubt, one of the best outdoor we have ever seen in any residential home. You have so much cabinetry, ice maker, teppanyaki, sink. And focusing into the other side. Of course, you have your outdoor grill, warming drawers, vent above, literally everything you need. And that wraps our tour on Now, I wanna take everybody back inside so we can check out the lower level. (upbeat music) - This is the biggest home in the world, at a 105,000 square feet of living space. It is divided up by a structure that is actually the home, and which includes a nightclub, a spa, a gym, and when I I mean, it's really so and you're gonna get into those details. But this encompasses you could ever imagine in a home. We decided to do something really exciting and never been done before on So myself, Branden are going to take this, along out to the world. And we're going to allow to be won over by the to make this their home, their everything, because this is so much more than a home. (dance music) - All right, everyone, here we are on the lower floor landing. Before we continue our tour here, I wanna turn back and talk about this floating marble staircase design. I say floating because it's actually not attached to the wall here. And it's all clad with marble, has the recessed wall and you come to the First, we have this and I wanna take everybody this side. Like I mentioned earlier, we're gonna walk a lot in this house. This door actually opens up to the subterranean 50 car garage. They're still working on the house and finishing some of the areas, but I wanted to bring everybody here because this is a great space. Massive door opens up from the We have all this lighting on the ceiling. And they went with darker Now, coming back here, I wanna talk about the feature With the butterfly multiple seating areas, I mean, look at this hallway Now, we have a seating area on this side, with beautiful laquer And we have two guest First one starts right here, sliding glass doors open And of course, this room also Now, coming back here to the landing, right next to the seating area. We have this hallway taking us to the second guest suite on this level. Same finishes, darker King size bed, sliding glass And of course, this one Now, coming back to the landing, we're gonna go this direction. On my right hand side we have the elevator access and And coming here, we have The amount of seating areas in this house is kind of mind boggling. Another U-shaped couch, I like the wall textures And right here, we have this marble table right And this will essentially storage areas, they're of another great common area on this level. - [Mikey] Yeah, and from the camera, but these wine cellars, they don't have anything but they're really deep. They're 10 feet deep behind each of these glass panels. - [Mikey] So I'm sure once you put your storage racks in - I'm sure, incredible, I'm outta words. Another bar, darker tones And they used the darker finishes Of course, you have your sink, fridge, another seating area behind it, another seating area on this side, another lounge on this level, and we're gonna continue our tour. Mikey, what do you like so far? - [Mikey] It's hard to and that pool area, but I think what we're about to see is probably one of the - This is the brains of the house. And they spent so much money, and it takes so much space a feature wall kind of a section. That's why they have And there you go, if you with all iPads and all that, - [Mikey] Yeah. - Amazing. - [Mikey] That's not what - What are you were talking about? - [Mikey] Well, what is my favorite part. Yes, of course, I hear you. Another powder room on this level. And look at this hallway, It's creative, we could've - [Mikey] Well, the best - There you go, another powder I'm sure we're gonna see many These are locker closets, and kind of like basically his and hers, for your gym. And when I say gym, I'm not talking about a couple I'm talking about an amazing space, and look at the scale here. I mean, walls of glass opening up. Is a little dark right now, but you have the sparkling This space, I'm outta words. You literally have every I like these ceiling mount And right on the other I say juice bar, but this I mean, the amount of cabinetry. All you're missing is a stove and event, and you have a commercial kitchen. I like the bar seating, you This is where you drink your fresh juice. Do your yoga, work out, and and you have a living wall here. I mean, this is mind boggling. - [Mikey] Yeah, so if do you make your own juice? - It depends what type of person you are. - [Mikey] Yeah, I guess you that could just make some good - Most likely. - [Mikey] Yeah. - Most likely, all right, - My favorite room in that because I've seen a million of them. I've seen so many cold and hot tubs, and steam but this has something different. This has an indoor lap Salt water, triple osmosis. And above it, it just has green walls, and it feels sort of like you're outside, and you're just exercising And then it also has all that have become common to us. Which is the cold plunge, and the wet steam, and And I think that all the all the wellness centers this really touches on that (siren musical tone) - And of course, scale It's massive, salt water, Lights changing, you have with cold lighting, multiple seating areas and lounge areas, sliding glass doors. This is probably the best indoor pool area in the city, with these kind of views. And again, amazing. - [Mikey] Yeah, it's crazy. - Outta words, living wall, and it continues, Mikey. By the way, this is the And of course, you have these automatic Now, you will have It connects to, I And coming to this section, you have another seating two massage rooms, amazing views. This chandelier right in the center is probably one of the And first, I wanna go this way. This is a full sized salon. Maybe full size doesn't do justice, it's like a commercial salon. You have pedicure chairs, you You have chairs for you to And they have this nice kind of rose gold and burgundy wool panels here, which is kind of a retro detail. LED lighting throughout, in another space, it's part of your spa. Now, coming back here, your spa continues. And over here we have the steam showers, walk in showers, heated And in fact, they have so you basically get water poured on you. Have a dry sun on the other side, and they're all built where you have massive showers and steam showers that can - [Mikey] I'm a little bit lost right now. I'm sure audiences also, - All, right, so we're basically I just realized there's a powder room here with a gorgeous marble And coming here, from we just came to the bowling alley. So now we're doing kind of almost like a full circle on the lower level. We have a golf simulator here, of course, why not, if it just compliments it. This bowling alley is not a This is as if it was in a I feel like I'm actually some of the details. - [Mikey] Well, there's a lot. - This is a lot to talk about. - [Mikey] I don't blame you, this is wild. - We have here-- - [Mikey] We've seen but usually it's one lane, maybe two. - And some of, they're It's just everything about it. - [Mikey] It's like a full - Just incredible, wall You have the TVs above, All right, let's continue. We mentioned this multiple times. They're still working on I think they're doing some but this is your tequila bar. I love this back lit glass detail here. They have it on the bar Normally this would be your seating area. And let's go back to the main hallway. If I'm not lost here, let's see. At the end of this we have the nightclub. But first, I actually wanna We have few powder rooms here, and that's the main staircase And before we wrap up there, I actually wanna take everybody this way. There you go, I'm learning this house. - [Mikey] Yeah. - So another hallway, this This is a colorful touch to this estate. We have these candy stations running all the way to the ceiling. LED lighting, round cabinetry. I gotta give credit to This is a nice detail, and it's located perfectly of the movie theater, and this movie theater is something else. In fact, Mikey, I'm gonna go left. Why don't you go to the right? Meet me at the movie theater so everybody can get a full Here we are, this is the movie theater. I mean, calling this a movie This is a commercial movie theater. And it's so decked out, with Dolby Atmos surround sound. These recliner chairs, that may but you have all the amenities there. Individual lighting, the size of the screen here. We have seen a lot amazing movie theaters. I mean, a lot throughout the world, but this one takes the win for me because I would love to sit down here, look at this massive Let's see if I can get this thing to work. - [Mikey] You're like, and - That's right, I'm trying And it's not pulling, Oh, there you go, I I'm outta words, again, some of the common areas in this house is unlike anything we've ever seen before. And that wraps our tour on this level or on this part of this home. I actually wanna take everybody outside so we can check out the night club. (dance music) - This is the charity event room. What would you call this room? - I would call it a nightclub, but I mean, it's just perfect Obviously it's super open. You have the commercial setup Not to mention this It's pretty crazy. - And more views. - More views. - 5,000 Square foot rooms So if you wanna throw an you bring 'em down here. - Has a private entrance. - Huge dance floor, huge And this is basically where - That's right, you have the DJ booth, you have the VIP lounge. - And one of my favorite things, the fire pit right over the view. And this is another pool, so if you wanna swim in you're right here. - Branden, we got pretty This is incredible, I mean, you have Downtown in front of you. - Well, this is why we in Los Angeles, you don't It's the perfect time, and 70 something agrees? - Yeah. - Views, and we're in the dead of winter. - This is amazing, Branden, Show people the scale, I I mean, the scale here, just it's pretty mind boggling. - And this is where you're And then if you want to and you got this incredible water feature, and this is the subterranean but views all around. (dance music) - Here we are on the second floor landing. We have beautiful hardwood seating area on my left. But first I wanna actually So we talked about this detail on the first floor in the office, and this is the overlook area. And from here, you can really We have a massive sky light above us, cabinetry goes all the walls of glass, just amazing. - [Mikey] Yeah, it's crazy. - This house is just unlike We're tired, we're out of - [Mikey] Yeah. - Now, we're gonna try to do our best to show you guys as much as possible because that's what we are known for. We have four bedroom suites on this level. Let's check out the first one here. Gorgeous finishes here, patted back wall, suede wall on this side, breathtaking views, I love Of course, you have with marble clad back walk in shower, everything you need. Now, this is one of the access points to the rooftop deck that we're And that right there is a Now, coming here, this hallway takes us This is where we have the second one. This one is facing more Of course, has a full bathroom too. And coming here, these are the two best Let's quickly check out this one here. Of course, comes with hardwood floors, walls of glass, facing these incredible views. I mean, it literally looks - [Mikey] Yeah, again, it's but the ocean, I don't think we've ever seen a view of the ocean quite like this. - Absolutely, unless you go to Malibu. - [Mikey] Yeah, I guess we than we usually are in the Hills. - Correct. - [Mikey] But still, it's - It's an amazing view, look Let's quickly check out the bathroom. I mean, if we were to tour this would be a three hour walkthrough. Another Toto toilet, I love this finish that they chrome fixtures, handheld, with this recessed in sink All right, Mikey, one more so we can show it to everyone. Again, we're gonna try our best, there are so many rooms to see. All right, come in here. We have the last bedroom on this wing. This one is the biggest, has king size bed. I just love the furnishings here too, very minimalist, very to the point. And before we check out the bathroom, I actually wanna bring everybody here. Another massive recessed that way you have your into the wall, opening up to this balcony where you can appreciate You have the art installation right at the edge of the promentory. And this is unlike anything This is just truly mind boggling. - [Mikey] Yeah, it's incredible. - All right, Mikey, let's go back inside so we can show everyone Starts here, marble with the same sink design. Free standing tub here, Walk in shower, same darkened Of course, you have a walk-in closet, pretty much everything you need. Now, let's take everybody back to the landing on the second floor. We have this minimalist seating area here, with another TV, suede walls. Nice welcoming seating area for all these four bedrooms Now, coming back to this floating hallway, we can actually take a look at the skylights bringing natural light to the first floor and the lower level, perfectly positioned. And over here, you can actually which is just incredible. I mean, look at the I think this is the biggest chandelier we have ever seen on this channel. - [Mikey] Yeah, it's wild. - A lot of firsts on this tour, for sure. Now, glass railing all throughout. Looking down, we have You can actually see the And coming back here, we can take a closer look that we talked about on the And even this section of the Getty and the Pacific Ocean. Now, coming back here, we have the hallway continue on this side. If you guys remember, this is the section where we Another art gallery here, You even have the seating area. And at the end of this hallway, we have another guest bedroom. This room is facing the Another king size bed, walls of glass, opening up to a private balcony, where you have the canyon views. You can actually look and the tennis court, The rooms, the size, the - [Mikey] Yeah. - All right, here we Another floating vantage design, finishes are nicely uniform. And another electric toilet. God knows how much they had to - [Mikey] How many bathrooms again? - 49 bathrooms, so I'm Probably more. - [Mikey] Okay, it's not a - Yeah, but they may have multiple, like in the nightclub and other areas. - Yeah, that's wild. I'm sure each of those is - I would say five, six grand at least. - [Mikey] I mean, yeah, That's how much that toilet - I feel you, I mean, this is incredible. Walk in shower, walk in Now, I wanna take everybody And this wing takes us to Before we go in, elevator and these double doors for the primary bedroom suite. Nice couch set up, another TVs nicely recessed into the wall. And this room comes with its own bar. Now, what I like about this bar design or the cabinetry particular, is the fact that it curves the wall. Which is always a very You have another built in espresso maker. You have your microwave, sink, I'm assuming if you live you probably have - [Mikey] I know you but this primary bedroom would probably cost five to $10 million anywhere else in Beverly Hills or Bel Air, or something like that, right? - It could easily be a it's mind boggling. - [Mikey] Yeah. - All right, we have the island here. That's it for the seating area for the primary bedroom suite. Now, let's continue our I love the vertical lighting going all the way to the ceiling. This opening here takes Oversized stone application We have a nice prep area, your walk in shower here, And again, just stone clad all the way, with chrome fixtures, just gorgeous. You have your vanity design here, with glass countertops, of perfectly positioned towards the views. And you have a nice Juliete If you wanna slide open this door and have fresh air coming Now, here we have the first closet, and this closet is gorgeous. It feels like we're walking Every detail, the way they the soft cloth, how the tracks are The rose gold finish, glass I mean, the list goes on and on and on. If I wanted to do an episode here, I feel like I can easily do an episode just on the cabinetry here alone. - [Mikey] Yeah - It's gorgeous, now, Mikey, let's take everybody so we can tour the second bathroom, which has more of the darker tones. This one has more of the lighter Now, bedroom starts here, but first let's go through this door to check out the second bathroom. As soon as you walk in, you see this massive Jetta And behind me, we have these glass doors Walk in shower, with the rain head, and we have this steam shower here. Literally everything you can think of. Sliding glass doors open for the primary bedroom. And over here, we have with marble clad doors, Just gorgeous finishes throughout. Now, come in here, we have Island in the center, more Again, laquer finish, LED Very timeless, very elegant, Now, let's go check out the bedroom setup. Coming back here, we have the door, and this is where we Bed set up on the left, perfectly positioned towards the views. I mean, we have the city It's gorgeous out here. Hardwood floors, king size with chevron pattern. And coming here, right We have the seating area, that way sliding glass And again, the ceiling heights, the scale, the space is just almost unexplainable. Now, over this side, This could easily serve as your office for your bedroom or another seating area. And stepping outside, we have this private balcony and this is where have your This is incredible. I mean, the amount of money I don't even wanna think about it. You have a cold plunge on the other side with a water feature, beautiful, beautiful primary bedroom suite. Now, that wraps our tour on this level. I wanna take everybody upstairs so we can check out the rooftop deck. (dance music) Now, we're on the rooftop deck, and the first area I wanna take everyone is the putting green. For sure this is the coolest I mean, look at these views. Granted, it's been a long day. We're running little late, it's literally almost night right now. But we're still showing it to you guys. - [Mikey] There was a lot so give us a break. We had to start Enes's part a little later than we usually do. - Exactly, but again, you guys are Amazing putting green, Also, before we leave this section, I wanna mention behind the property, we have a gorgeous detached guest home with three bedrooms, four bathrooms, amazing living room area. Walls of glass facing breathtaking views of the Pacific Ocean, has a Unfortunately, since we are we're not gonna get a but I'm sure our team got So I wanted to mention that. Now, continuing here, we Epay decking on the floors, multiple bar areas and You have your fire pit here, they're still putting some of the finishing touches on this estate. Now, coming to this section, more outdoor seating areas and the views are just Lounging chairs, outdoor seating areas, these gazebos, and again, the views. Can we take everybody Getty and Pacific Ocean on the right. Downtown Los Angeles on the left Century City, Wiltshire This is without a doubt, one of the best properties and best views we have ever seen on this channel. (dance music) All right, everyone, This was the most requested And I hope you all enjoyed this video. I want to congratulate with the build of this project. And I also wanna thank the listing agents, Rayni Williams, Branden Williams, and Aaron Kirman for allowing us to tour their amazing listing, And as always, you can find more information in the description of this video. Lastly, if you enjoyed the tour, make sure you give us a like, and we'll see you guys next week. (relaxed music)