If you're a start up, you need them. If you're on Twitter, you've seen them. And if you're the Patagonia store at 770 in San Francisco, Of course, And today we ask, I'm here in beautiful Silicon Valley, California, Which investor Pedia defines provide to startup companies that are believed to have long Sure. But over the last decade, the investment a buzzy culture around itself becoming famous in their own right. So do these mostly guys really just invest Our investigation began with a real life our studio by telling him we are two young That's like if Uber and GitHub had a baby My name is Sheila Banat At Better Tomorrow Ventures. We find really small companies and hope So that's that's pretty much it. All right. Well, lots of people Banks, the government, My sugar mama best. So what besides designer mushrooms You look for crazy ideas are going to change the world. They would say that If we didn't have venture capitalists, or Intel or Apple or any of the the great American companies all of these innovations And that's true. You know, you can't dispute that. Fundamentally, the job of VCs is to take on small businesses with huge potential, capital invests in small companies Case closed. You usually lose money never mind in aggregate. Startup investments So you probably, if you're going to invest class, you probably want to make 20, 30, TURNER Novak is a writer and investor which focuses on young startups MIO, Peanut and other companies And if you're just, you know, this as a full time job, to find 20 to 50 really good, So you go to a venture capital firm a fund from anywhere investing in a large number of startups But investors in institutions who can afford that type of risk, college endowments and insurance plans, They don't have time to figure out if a 3D printing cannabis company So they give money to VCs However, about vetting potential investments, You hear more about the vibes. First and foremost, we're investing to execute against their vision You're more looking at spreadsheets there are really no numbers to go off of. So it's much more about the people. So not only do VCs separate themselves by taking risks, they're also And this past decade Low interest rates to $344 billion And tech reporter Natasha a hyper competitive market If your competitor is willing to invest after 2 hours of meeting a founder, or else you'll start losing out on deals there is also excessive deals There has been so much money available and that attracts bad actors sometimes, maybe if you exaggerate a little bit, Another double edged sword of VC growth It's really tough to stand out as a VC. So you see them talk about in proclaim And if we're not creating usually the idea isn't disruptive enough. So I'm beginning to talk about culture I've made more in the last eight years than Buffett Buffett did a thousand points of Alpha, My returns are double. Buffett And where does So venture companies brag on Twitter. Twitter is where all of the venture a socialist Onlyfans influencer on LinkedIn VC brags that documents the most egregious examples talking about achieving his decades and being a Forbes 30 under 30 in this VC tragic loss and took the opportunity And this VC who says that jargon, he is saving lives with his tweets You occupy the be a little bit A lot of the time it's You're too self-aggrandizing on Twitter. You know, you're going But it's also my hope your business, over the years into this kind of like Everyone's kind of picking their lane. It's like, am I the visionary? Am I the fight picker? Am I It would be great to see A lot of the times it's very fast moving to go on to the next thing. I think it would be great you know, people really digging in and being able to support the companies So what do venture capitalists It's simple. They take cash from investors who are willing to accept risk But the pressure to build their profile act like they're doing more than that. But don't let the VCs fool you there. Humans just like us, which means they only want two things Speaking of, if any investor is listening, to advertise an exciting new media startup narcissistic white boys from Massachusetts It's called I'm Here in Beautiful Silicon Valley, I'm here in beautiful Silicon Valley, Well, Silicon Valley's Silicon Valley,