- Wisconsin is known Wisconsin produces 600 If Wisconsin was a nation, we'd be the third largest (calm music) Our best seller is our Five Year Cheddar. I think it's because of the So you can see milk in the Milk was being held overnight, what was brought in yesterday afternoon, and this is the milk we're and gonna make cheese out of today. First, we heat it on water and start running milk through Pasteurizing is heating the to try to kill all of the bad bacteria. On ours, we use a We typically run 164 to 165 and it has to be held at the minimum. We wanna make sure that exactly what we're showing. Sometimes you have to adjust the needle. So now we'll warm it back up again. It's right on today. Right now it's circulating all the way through the pasteurizer. So we ensure that our milk is pasteurized before we're putting it in the vat then we add the starter culture. It's about 500 grams of latis lactis and lactis cremoris. We're typically at about 86 Optimum temperature for bacteria to grow. We wanna ripen the starter We produce a lot of cheese in Wisconsin. We believe that in southwest the Driftless area, that it does affect the feed, the hay, the because of the limestone. So we do believe that it affects, the terra affects the Once starter culture's if we're adding color, we'll add annatto. 100 years ago when we as the dairy state, we were Ours is orange, theirs is So we're just mixing the color in and that's what basically is orange cheddar as opposed Then we'll add the rennet which is the enzyme that coagulates now. Stir that in. Pull the paddles, just let and let it thicken up. So it gets about as thick as Greek yogurt. Now we're going to cut These are three eighths inch wired knives. We'll crosscut the vat then we'll go all the way up one side, all the way back down the other with the vertical and We're gonna put the paddles back in so once we do start They're pretty delicate at this point but see how they're little tiny cubes? They can start expelling whey out of them. 10 pounds of milk will get and about nine pounds of liquid. So you have to be able to all that whey out of the curb. In Wisconsin, one of the regulations is that every vat of cheese has to be presided over When I started in 1970, you could get your cheesemaker's license by apprenticing under a and then sitting for the When we first bought this place, I was about 35 and it Everything has to be and sanitized before you use it. So you want a picture of the thermometer since it's heated to 100. Now we'll start, push it drain away, kinda let ditch it in the middle so the whey can drain out of the center. I can feel the curve down there so I can feel how much These vats are sloped to Drain it out of the valve. So at this point, we're getting down to where the whey is mostly drained off. So what whey and little that we're draining on the floor is just what the pump couldn't The rest of it was already and that will be used for fertilizer. Biddick will haul it We'll get all the whey drained off and then we'll start trimming and then we'll be able to cut so we can start cheddaring. As you turn 'em over, keeps kinda pressing itself You cut 'em in half, pile 'em two high. Each of those, you're kinda pressing 'em together but also pressing them to stretch out so the texture changes a little bit. First we go one high, two about every 15, 20 minutes and we'll test the acidity to make sure the starter culture is still growing like we want then we'll run 'em through a cheddar mill and make the cheddar sized curds. So I'm just breaking up. Sometimes there's some big So that when you salt it, the The salt wall preserve the cheese. That slows the starter culture down, prevents it from getting too acidic. Without salt, pretty bland. So this is a little bit that we'll put on and then So once we have those curds then we'll dip them with a bucket. From here, we're just dipping it out, weighing it, putting it Once we put two pails in each one, they'll be ready to put in the press. We do it by hand scale on We put about 45 to 46 They each have cheesecloth in 'em. We'll pull the pins, put a lid on there. We'll press 'em down to So we'll lose about four pounds This is the whey that's About 20 pounds of pressure and then we'll switch it to for the last hour and a half. The cheese has been in the So we're going to start wrapping these. We'll pull 'em out of the forms. Take the cheesecloth off. We're gonna have a fully pressed block of just a solid mass of We'll put 'em in a one hole bag and then we'll seal 'em in the multi bag. Put it in a cardboard box with wood liner, put it on a pallet, start aging it out. We're gonna start to start curing 'em out. They'll be moved up to another 'cause most of our cheddar We can't fit everything in here so the cheddars are moved out Back in the day before refrigeration, most of these factories were so that the back end was sort of underground so it'd be 55 or 60 and they'd let the cheese The oldest we have ever and we don't typically have Some restaurants really want it but individuals wanna buy that. They want something that's aged that long and hard sought after and it's always fun to try and Three milks instead of just cow milk. We moved on with cow, sheep, and it's fun to play with all those. You get different flavor combinations. Try to come up with something new, something nobody else One of the cheeses, Ewe very unique name and I two years before I came Most of the cheeses, I'll before I'll come up with a name for it. We're tiny compared to most. It'd be kinda nice to be but at the other part of that problem is how fast can you grow Double-edged sword. In Madison area, we're pretty well known. I like at the farmer's people can sample everything So it's satisfaction with that consumers will love. Yes, the making is great (calm music)