Oh. Hi it's Tod from Tod's Workshop and Tod Cutler historically accurate falchions. Basically trying and there is no better way of doing that, than and I'm going to dress it up in progressive layers on it, what do they do? Will put mail on it will that do anything at all? And what is and really sharp? How much of a difference day? Are falchions the half sword, half axe I reenacting, or are they more specialised than you chop wood, sharpen stakes with them? But things were brutally heavy but they're not, they a really clever, really sophisticated tapering further back towards the hand and what it does is not brutally heavy. So what are falchions really start with the self-evident truth and that is they job and any tool that is badly designed or doesn't you can't use it for fighting, there is something not what they were. I have three falchions here from Tod Cutler.com so we have a cleaver falchion, century. Wakefield hanger, 15th century. But that I wanted to have a look at today and so the and sized blade, we're just going to cast to one and in the case of the cleaver falchion, really a lot of weight out front if this blade was thick. You just wouldn't be able to use it. And so It starts thick but very rapidly thins by the time you get here it's about two maybe a type is the Conyers falchion in Durham Cathedral. at the widest section of the blade, it's only then we have the Clip Point here and this is but still the principles still apply that it's comes to a steady taper and what that means as I them, they are not the heavy bulky things they First up are they any good for camp activities? but we've got a stick in front of us here Let's go up in thickness, now. So that last one obviously is split can do. Like I said, I'm no swordsman, but are I mean they're too delicate for that, that's not And what about sharpening defensive stakes 13th Warrior where Antonio Banderas just comes perfectly sharp point. But I'm not sure that's strike with the centre of percussion, it's know just in a little bit, you'll find it. Now it does do it I can't deny it, but it's with a longer blade like this because forward, it's just not the tool for the job. that rapid deceleration, it's not good for but the people who own them also own axes, and thing is that for a swordsman it is going to be their very precious sword, they're not going to a million. Here we have a ballistic gel torso actually left here by the guys at History go check out their channel, and then on that we gamberson. So this has got cotton canvas on wool felt wadding on the inside. The burns are fire arrows at it so go check that one out too cleaver falchion. Reasonably sharp. Next we'll do with falchions which are really reasonably sharp be; I wouldn't want to push hard on it but edge. Well it's a good edge and that the clip point same deal, it's got a Nope not a lot, I mean the guy's hurting inside. but it does stop you from getting bits chopped are razor sharp; have a look at this. Don't falchion and one shave. Razor sharp. Razor sharp falchion, cleav falchion gave a massive gash, let's see ouch. So sharp is a very very different beast. So gone about that deep into the ballistic gel besides anyway it's for bullets and stuff, it's inches 60, 65 mm deep and then I suppose you'd slower the cleaver falchion has not actually lighter, more maneuverable and still cuts like a before; shaving sharp, that's a different thing. now wearing mail and a gamberson and they work against this. I haven't even bothered getting well nothing going on there. Let's go again. So two strikes of nothingness. Bit of edge damage but is you have to remember that is what cutting blows. It still allows impact force nice and it's not so good against piercing axes, it's what it's made for and it's doing sharp. Just got a bit of ring getting. So the falchion has done nothing to the there is a little bit of edge damage you'd it's still absolutely a slicing sword, but the is very little beef in this blade right behind expect it to. But what's coming next is plate going to see if Lord of the Rings and all those Oh I'm not looking forward to it. So swords it's not what they're for and by the time plate your way through plate rather obviously, it's not it's about poking holes in the bits that you can kind of impact like this is something you see in have been at the time. But nonetheless clearly I'm half. No. I have on the other hand but that's it. This is our impact line here and People would not aim to do those kind of strikes little bit of a dent but there's an air cavity so really nothing has been done to the guy So basically falchions are sophisticated, really well-designed tools for the job that they're not for bushcraft it's not what it's armour but it is fabric armour. It might just be it works really well, but you can overcome very sharp. That's fine. Mail. Falchions don't the mail though so actually you know onto the ribs it's still going to do damage even though it's not is being concentrated on. So actually if you edge damage but you know it's fine, it's still never expected it would, be an idiot if you tried. before we go because I know you want to see it. and don't forget guys all the falchions featured We also have a Patreon page, so if out how you can help us and get bye. That'll do