This is 4D Miner; a 4 dimensional survival I'd rather not start this video off with show it to you. First let's quickly make a new world. After the world generates, you'll notice But there's more to this world than meets As I scroll with the mouse wheel, the landscape Blocks seem to contort into all kinds of different air, and others slowly disappear. Even the sun appears to grow and shrink! This kind of behavior is not unusual when interact with a 4-dimensional world. In order to explain what's happening here, being tries to interact with a 3-dimensional Let me introduce you to Frank. Frank is a 2-dimensional being, restricted see anything beyond the 2nd dimension; much the 3rd dimension. Luckily for Frank, we 3-dimensional beings into the 3rd dimension. We can allow him to explore a 2-dimensional In addition to this, we can give him a superpower plane in the 3rd dimension, which lets him When Frank uses his superpower, to him it The blocks around him seem to change shape, To us, what Frank sees makes perfect sense. We can look at him trying to explore different We can see him get stuck inside a cave, and not so easy for him. This is exactly what happens to us when we Imagine you're in your living room, minding from the 4th dimension snatches you away... Next thing you know, they place you into a A 4-dimensional world. Now you're completely out of your element, give you, that lets you rotate yourself through That's basically the scenario you'll find The first thing you'll want to do is get only see a limited 3D cross-section of the can approach us from anywhere, and we must Punching tree trunks doesn't seem to be get a stick out of the leafy branches of this It doesn't look like we got anything, but in the 4th dimension, outside of our 3D view. Let's try scrolling through the 4th dimension Here's one! Now we're a bit more safe from any enemy And just in time too! See those weird shapes appearing out of nowhere? Let me introduce you to the hyperspider. It's not too much unlike a regular spider. Actually it's very much unlike a regular It's a 4-dimensional being about the same Well, at least the parts that you can see. You'll never be able to see the entire thing It has 32 legs and it can follow you anywhere Hopefully this stick we found will be enough Well, it looks like we've killed it. And what's this? Hypersilk? Is that like, 4-dimensional spider silk? As a matter of fact, it is! Let's see if we can do anything with the Maybe if we use the stick to dig through the Oh look,a rock! And not just any rock, but a 4-dimensional So we have a stick, some very strong spider-silk, And with those items, we can craft our first The hammer not only allows us to break more deadly weapon than the stick we started out As I harvest some of this wood, many of the Fortunately, scrolling back and forth allows them up. Ok, I think we're ready to look for a cave. I still have to watch out for spiders though, that are outside of our view. Here's a cave! It doesn't look too big though. Maybe there's more to this cave than what There we go! This cave is actually a lot bigger than I And it looks like there's some iron ore I should be able to take it out of the cave I have to be careful to make sure I don't There's always stuff in the 4th dimension With the ore that we just got, we can make Now we can make much stronger tools, like faster than this hammer. Let's do some more exploring! Maybe if we go to this strange-looking biome, the 4-dimensional world more effectively. There's a lot of cool-looking stuff here, What's that teal and magenta stuff? Well, let's get some and find out! It looks like we got something called deadly This is actually the most valuable resource With it, we can make tools to help us see First thing I'll make is a pair of 4D glasses, that exist outside of the player's 3D cross-section. This includes item drops and enemies. Now I can see all the item drops that I missed. I better go pick them up! Now that we're back on the surface, let's before they find us. There's one! You think you're sneaky? Not anymore! These 4D glasses will also help you find chests to lose their loot stash, and that can happen dimension! The glasses are cool, but how do I know my How do I know which way I'm facing in the Without being able to answer these questions, Luckily, with the help of that deadly ore a compass! Now this compass doesn't work exactly like find in real life. That's because it's a 4-dimensional compass. It'll show you your coordinates, which is like a real compass, it lets you know which It also helps you to understand the orientation That may seem complicated, but trust me, after it should start to make sense. In this game not only can you explore an infinite but you can also build 4D structures in any Speaking of which, I haven't really tried First I'll go get some stone for myself, There we go! Now we're safe from those pesky spiders! Wait a minute! Where did you come from? Oh yeah, I forgot! We just built a 3D hut, but we didn't build can just walk right in! If I scroll, you can see that there's a Now a naive way to build structures is to until they're all gone. You'll end up making a really ugly building, A better way to do things is to just burrow That way you'll be covered on all sides. If you're willing to take a more mathematical the shape of a 4-dimensional hypercube, but There are also other unique aspects of building When you rotate in 4D, you're looking at If you take an artistic approach to building, creations than what you could normally do Here are some dumb things that I've tried sure you guys can make much cooler stuff! On the surface, this game does look quite is undeniable, but things like building, collecting world are completely different, and this affects the main progression system of the game. I plan on expanding this aspect of the game the new game mechanics and features focus One of the biggest things I want to add is dimension with the help of other people! In order to implement some of these features To help me add new features, like multiplayer, a kickstarter campaign. Not only will you be helping to develop this as getting a copy of the steam release, getting in the credits of the game! On the Kickstarter page, there's a link of charge, which means you could be one of There is so much more to this game than I making a follow up video that explains how it will go into much more detail, and even game! Please leave a comment if you have any feedback video in about a week, so please also leave If you want to help the channel, please consider and stay tuned for future updates about this I'm sorry that I haven't uploaded in a on this project for most of the time I've this long, or to become this ambitious. I'm planning on doing monthly devlog updates, of the other content I've been uploading miss out on that, please consider subscribing!