(peaceful orchestral music) (dramatic orchestral music) - Load that stuff in the back. Hill ain't on the map, Captain. Rest assured, sir, I've been shuttling across this skillet for the past 10 years. Saves two days to El Paso. Now - I can see the regular stage route. - This trip's been nothing but a problem since the time we left. - All right, then, if you wanna - Oh, please, Jerry. It's and now that killer. - Are we gonna move or are - Yes, sir. We're shovin' right off. Sheriff, call your man. - Trask! Everybody aboard. We're moving. Here, let me help you, ma'am. - Thank you. - You've done nothin' (foot thuds) - I gotta put 'em someplace, lady. (dramatic orchestral music) - Now what? Change places. I wish we'd never come - [Jerry] A trip that'll can hardly be called foolish. - Pioneering in this - Men go where there's money to be made. - And women? - They go with the men who make it. Or try. (bright orchestral music) - Whoa, whoa. (suspenseful orchestral music) - What's up? - Rider ahead, coming through fast. If he ain't careful, he'll toss himself. (dramatic orchestral music) - Take a look. - Hey! Come on, come on. Whoa, whoa. - Trask, you stay here. - He's about had it. (Trask breathes heavily) - Well, what'll we do? - He'll die if you leave him here. - Takin' him ought to - But he's hurt! At least get him to the - Leave him. - I thought I told you All right, let's put him in the wagon. - A man's dying doesn't mean - On the contrary. A man's (brooding orchestral music) - Why were you runnin'? Who were you runnin' from? (Ben speaks foreign language) (tense orchestral music) Halt! - Whoa, whoa. What is it? (distant war cry) - Comanches. - But this is Menbrano country. There ain't been no Comanches - [Jerry] What is this? What's going on? - Shh! (distant war cry) - Head for those rocks. - We'll never make it. - Hey! Come on! (dramatic orchestral music) - [Jerry] How do we know they're after us? - What do you suggest we Sheriff! Unlock his irons. - Why? - We need this gun where Quick! - Get on the floor, lady. (dramatic orchestral music) (guns fire) (gun fires) (gun fires) (gun fires) (gun fires) (gun fires) (gun fires) (gun fires) (gun fires) (gun fires) (gun fires) (wagon clatters) (gun fires) (gun fires) (Native Americans howl) (guns fire) (Native Americans howl) (gun fires) (guns fire) (guns fire) (suspenseful orchestral music) Be good, boy. Be good. Whoa, boy, now. Whoa, boy. - Sheriff. Lift it up a little bit. I - [Ben] Whoa, boy. - Trask! Come here! Grab a hold of this. (Sheriff groans) - Right! Huh? - Clear. - It's all right now, - Where's Jerry? (melancholy orchestral music) - Oh, I, I'm sorry, ma'am. - He's gone. The neck's broken. He felt no pain. - Well, I guess that's that. - Found out why he was runnin'. He carved up another Comanche. - [Theodore] Our mistake - Yeah, that about sums it up. We better get over there under cover. - You think they might come back? - [Theodore] Yep. - What about Jerry? - [Theodore] Later. (Native American speaks foreign language) - No. - Now what? - Wants that pony. - Well, of all the blood - Well, if he can't walk, he can crawl. (Native American speaks foreign language) (Ben speaks foreign language) (Native American speaks foreign language) (ominous orchestral music) - What's that? Looks like gold. - It is gold. - Hard to identify that rock. - Rock, a gold rock. Let me have it. Ask him where he found it. (Ben speaks foreign language) (Native American speaks foreign language) (Ben speaks foreign language) (Native American speaks foreign language) (Ben speaks foreign language) (Native American speaks foreign language) - Keaton River about - Tell him we'll give him a (Ben speaks foreign language) (Native American speaks foreign language) That settles that. - Hold on. We're in no position Besides, what about the lady? - Well we might try and get her - Well I reckon the lady has Nobody's cutting me out. - It's not gonna be easy for a woman. - Since when was it easy? A little gold would make I could pick my company, for a change. - Uh-huh. - But I'm taking in a prisoner. - There's no time limit on - No, but he's gotta stand trial. - I'm in no hurry. - How're we gonna get there? - Walk. Well, what about food and water? - We'll have to make - Well, we ain't got much. - For a big payoff. I vote we get started. - [Carney] I admire your pluck, ma'am, but not even an Indian would - Shh! (ominous orchestral music) (Joshua hums melodically) (Joshua hums melodically) (Joshua hums melodically) - Well, hello. &quot;Captain Theodore Bess, Shipmaster.&quot; (hums melodically) &quot;Permanent revocation of license.&quot; (tuts) Sorry. Goodbye, Captain. (hums melodically) (hums melodically) Oh, uh... Hello, folks! Uh... Don't look now, lady. I'm afraid he's dead. - Who are you? - Tinnen's my name. Joshua Tinnen. I trade out of Silver City. General merchandise, as you can see. Hams and bacon, sugar and Calicals, flannels. Scissors - Hey, Captain. Lookee here. Everything we need. (chuckles) - And the best of everything! - We'll come to terms, all right. There's more of that where that came from and we're headed there. You've just been dealt in. - I'd like to kind of - Don't strain yourself, We need your stuff. - Lookee here, Sheriff. And the Constitution of the United States guarantees against unlawful - Then you owe me five dollars, for this. - Union coat, Confederate - Well, there's two sides to everything. Deal me in. (Theodore laughs) - Well, Sheriff, we've got Are you satisfied? - Too bad, Sheriff. While they get rich you have - We're going with 'em. Yeah. I always miss out on the big strikes. But afterwards, I'm still taking you (bright orchestral music) (Native American speaks foreign language) (dramatic orchestral music) - What're you doin'? - He kept his part of the bargain. - [Sheriff] How do we know (bright orchestral music) - We'll need picks! (pan clangs) (water splashes) - It's here. (ominous orchestral music) Hold it! These are Menbranos. Peaceful Indians. (Chief speaks foreign language) (speaks foreign language) (Chief speaks foreign language) (suspenseful orchestral music) Better let 'em have it. (Chief speaks foreign language) (Native American speaks foreign language) (speaks foreign language) (hooves clop) Those lancers mark the bounds. If we pan down here, they won't bother us. - Uh-huh. - What's up above? - [Ben] Burial grounds. - We made a big mistake, - You got a point there. Indians had one, too. They've had dealings with whites before. - I don't like stayin' here without guns. On the other hand, I- - Well, who does? So we can push on to El Paso but that'd be taking a - No, no, no. That's risky. Bound to be talk. There - [Carney] Let the news get out and we'll wind up with nothin'. - Yeah. Do you think the Indians will let us be, if we stay below the lancers? - Yep. - Well, what's to keep when our backs are turned? - Common sense. - And if that don't do it, I will. (fire crackles) - Ow! Hey! - [Sheriff] Dinner ready? - Almost. Somebody give me a hand! - I could use a couple of hands myself. - The way I figure, you Everybody's doing more work than you. Everybody'll be puttin' more gold into the common pot than you, That's the way the captain set - Captain's kind of taken over, ain't he? - Mind? - No, I don't mind anything. - You're smart. (slap) - I was a fool. All that fancy talk and helping me get privacy - Not till you listen. If you'd have done what I wanted, you'd share this lane too. Safety in numbers. No, but you are bull-headed. So am I. - Yeah. - But whatever I do, I never - [Laura] No. - Well, I do now. With reservations. - Such as? - Oh, no excuses for My kind. I never met one before. - Next I'll remind you of your mother. - [Theodore] You couldn't. I - Oh. - Oh, most people think I'm inhuman. The proof I'm not is when I go a bit too far sometimes. Are you human enough to - Maybe. If you stay backed up. - Pretty. I'd like to put some pretty - I plan to do that myself. - Maybe I'll get you to change your plans. - Gold's the only future I plan on. - Well, at present, let's eat. (water swashes) - What's your timepiece say? (Carney hums melodically) - Gettin' on. - Mm. She sure is a beauty. - Yeah, my grandpa's. - Ah. - Look at that little (Joshua chuckles) - More? - Thanks. - Oh, I'm sorry. Oh. - No harm done, miss. - Look here, why do you keep him shackled? Do you think he's gonna run away now? - He don't think, he just twitches. - As long as I'm Sheriff - Well, you're outside your county now. - I may be outside, but he - Why? You took 'em off when He could've shot you then and he didn't. - I know more about him than you folks do. Any man that'd murder his own brother... (dramatic orchestral music) - Who said so? A rigged jury and a pack of claim jumpers, slobbering over my land. - Now, take it easy. - (groans) Get him off me! (Ben yells indistinctly) - Looks like he won the argument, Sheriff. This it? (pan clangs) - [Sheriff] You're gonna - Will I? - No. (manacles clack) (warm orchestral music) - I'll take that. Any objections? Well, let's step down for the night. - Suits me. - Everybody wash his own. - That's what I aim to do. Wash my own gold and keep it. Dump yours into a common pot I'm on my own. - Nobody's on his own. Share and share alike. - Who said so? Me? - When it was decided, - I am now. - There's other considerations. - I'll pay for my keep. That understood? Much obliged, Miss Laura. - It's all right. - I'm beddin' down off aways. (suspenseful orchestral music) - What're you gettin', Carney? - Sand, fleas and sore knees. - Me too. - Miss Laura? You'll get it faster - Either way, it doesn't to show for it, except - Mind if I show ya? You see, the main idea is all the time, from the so as the gold settles down in the bottom. You just whip it over like that, and let the silt float off like that. Easy does it. - I guess nothing's easy. I'll - No, no, no. Not so hard. Gold's tricky, you'll lose it. - I usually do. - Keep this hand a little - How's that? Hey. (chuckles) Say, Miss Laura, you wanna help me work this contraption of mine? It's just about ready to go. - I thought you wanted to work alone? - I guess I changed my mind. - Why would you wanna take me in with you? - Well, two can work it better than one. No, it's a fact. You Anyways, I'm not aiming to get rich, I just want enough for, for comfort when I need it. - The kind of comfort I aim - Well, good luck there. - Him and that rocker box. - I don't know. Some say a rocker box is the best bet. On the other hand, some say panning is the - I say I'll wait till I see it operate. (suspenseful orchestral music) - Mr. Tinnen, there's plenty Pick yourself another spot. - Maybe you better pick your Captain Bess. (rocker box squeaks rhythmically) (Theodore chuckles) - She makes noise, Ben. Do you - Well, she better. I'm a (Theodore chuckles) (rocker box rattles) - Hey, take it easy! - I know. You're stubborn, more like a mule. (slap) Not even thanks? - Why? It was mine's to have. - Why, you. (Theodore laughs) - Private joke? Sort of. Now it's public! (water splashes) (laughs) (Ben and Theodore laugh) (suspenseful orchestral music) (Joshua hums melodically) (Joshua hums melodically) (tense orchestral music) (Joshua hums melodically) (water splashes) (rocker box squeaks rhythmically) - Everybody's runnin' What's he gonna do, buy Or maybe the woman will have something- - What he does with his money, he does. - Strikes me queer you don't even if you won't for ours. - What do you suggest I do? - Make him see the light! Go - How do I go about that? - We'd all help. (chuckles) I'm sure I can All the way. - You can. - You try anything funny and you won't keep what You won't be aboard to claim it. - You didn't read me right! (rocker box squeaks rhythmically) - Looks like you lost an argument. - Foul temper, that. Stay away from him, Sheriff. - Wish there was some way we could stop that confounded squeakin'. - Yeah. And pourin' all the gold in his pockets. - It ain't fair and square. He wouldn't even be here, (suspenseful orchestral music) - Look at that! - Funny, I looked over not more than an hour ago. I don't know why I missed it. It wasn't there. It was up yonder and just washed on. That's where the real gold is. Up there. - You mean up above the lancers? - It's as plain as day. That's why the Indians said keep off. The burial ground was just an excuse. I bet we could go up there and pick up the stuff in handfuls. - Just my luck. Every time I (sighs) You may be right, but The Indians meant what they said. - Did you understand the lingo? - No, nobody did but Trask. - Do you think maybe Keeping us down here? Maybe he bargained our guns away and- - What do you think? - Still, in case he was No, we couldn't chance it. (ominous orchestral music) (peaceful orchestral music) - If you keep on like that, either you or that rocker (Ben chuckles) - The both of us. Say, you better come in with (Laura chuckles) - All right, I will. - [Ben] You're not gonna argue about it? - I'm too hungry. Would you like to share - I admire it. - Not much to admire. Just grits. - Well, suits me. Just so I - I'll open. One spoonful. - Stay. - I'm out. - [Carney] I'll stay. Cards? - I ain't gettin' it this way and I ain't gettin' it pannin'. All I'm gettin' is That big stuff the Indian - That's a fair question. - And I'll see. (ominous orchestral music) - Where'd you get this? - Just below the lancers. It washes down from up - Without guns? Not me, mister. - Then me. It appears you fellas believe - Better watch yourself. You want to get us all killed? - Nobody's gonna get killed. - You know, this tastes mighty good. - (chuckles) What doesn't - Well, one thing in - Oh, I can't abide those, either. - You know, they gave 'em Part of the reason I busted out. - I don't blame you. - I reckon that when they locked me up, they figured that any man didn't deserve any better. The only hitch was, I didn't do it. - You don't seem like the kind to me, Ben. - See, what made it look we was always, always uh, fightin'. People knew it. I just don't like being ordered around. - Neither do I. The way I figure it, nobody has a right to order anybody else I guess the war settled that question. - Yes, ma'am. - For men. It takes a lot of money to fight a war. So I figure the more gold I get, the better the odds are on my side. - Yeah. Where you reckon you'll go after here? - I don't know. I was headed to San Francisco before. - [Ben] Ever been to Mexico? - No. - It's a nice country. People are nice, too. Very friendly. Not too nosy. - That's a thought. I kinda hankered to find a spot where maybe I could start from scratch again. I might even pick out a new name. I never did like Laura Thompson. - Laura's mighty pretty, I'd... Hate to see you change that. Well, I guess I better turn in. Oh, I'll help you wash up. - Oh, no, you don't. I'll do it. - All right. Well, now that we're don't you think that we oughta... - What? - Shake hands? - Thanks, Ben. - No, thank you. (chuckles) Goodnight. - Goodnight. - [Ben] Night. (whistles melodically) - Trask? Did you enjoy your dinner? - I didn't. You had the same as us. - You had better company. - My luck. Goodnight, Captain. - You've been very lucky. So far. Now, there's two things I want. - You may get your ship, Captain. - I aim to get the other, too. So do you. There's no need to ask. And you don't aim to go back - Then why are we staying here, gabbin'? - I'm not. I just want it understood. Now, the only person who can and I don't think she will. - No? Why not? She's been on the run all of her life. - Look out now, Captain. No offense. But when she sizes us up, do you think she's going to pick the man who's gonna be on the If you're smart, you'll Till then, you're marked, as a murderer. - Not when I know it's a lie. No go, Captain. You better think up another - Believe me, it's worse to (ominous orchestral music) (pickax clacks) (ominous orchestral music) (peaceful orchestral music) (tense orchestral music) (snoring) - Here's the proof. - You crossed? - Middle of the burial ground. - The Indians? - Not a sign. Come on, get up! (tense orchestral music) (Ben grunts) - You're not goin' up there! (thud) (dramatic orchestral music) (distant yelling) (thud) (thud) (thud) (grunts) - [Laura] Ben! - I didn't do nothin'! (thud) (thud) (thud) - You keep out of this! Cross the lancers, will ya? You're as fit to represent law - Are you hurt, Ben? - You mean now? - Hold on, they haven't We can still get the gold we want without having any - How? We haven't got enough food. - Well, we'll send for provisions. - Why not? We could stay here and pan for - Sure. I know a shortcut - I'll go along. See we - Done. But one thing's understood. It's a common pot from here on in. Anyone doesn't like it can get - All right, I'm staying. - Get goin'. How about some breakfast? - I'll fix some. - Come on. (bright orchestral music) (ominous orchestral music) - Laura? Laura. - What's the matter? - Shh! I'm pulling outta here. I - To Mexico? Ben, I... I understand why you don't - No, no. It's more than that. The idea of the lancers It's only a matter of time. I know. - Maybe so. Oh, if I only had a little more gold. - Well, you got mine. And you want to change your name. You got that, too, if you'll take it. I mean, marry me. - Oh, Ben. - What name? You don't have one to offer, Ben. And what future? A bright future. A long, - He's right, Ben. I mean, - Well, let's go, then. Later you'd have enough gold to hire the best lawyer in the state to clear you. - Good luck, Laura. Please! (sobs) (sobs) - Don't be a fool, Laura. Be yourself. (Laura sobs) - Captain, Laura. The horses are gone. Indians. It's a warning to get outta here. - But why? - But didn't the Indians say that- - Tinnen sneaked across the The Indians must have seen him. - We better get outta here fast. - But we can't walk across the flats! - We might be able to, travelin' light. - Well, that'll mean - Should we wait for Tinnen and Carney? - I don't know. Do you think we'd have a if we waited for the horses? - It'd be awful risky. - Well, let's get packed, then we'll see. (rudimentary acoustic music) (Carney applauds) - Miss Quito, you just keep and I'll come back and - Sure. But I say, Mr. Carney, business - Oh, what's your hurry? Our business has waited It won't walk away. But the sooner we get to it... (both laugh) - I see what you mean. (peaceful orchestral music) - [Quito] Gracias. (Carney clears his throat) - No sign of 'em. - What's keepin' 'em? - Surely they'll get here today. - It'd be like Carney to hang around town. - Well, if they don't get We've already stretched our luck. - Ever consider that the before they get back? - Don't let him fret you, Laura. - Build up the fire. - Get some wood, Chadbourne. - Anything would be better than sittin'. (Carney chuckles) - You know, Josh, with my luck at poker, and my share of all that gold, I'm going to build me You know, with a lot of pretty Oh, I'm going to be biggest gambler West of the Rio Grande It's easier gettin' my gold that way Than pickin' it out of the pan I'll buy me a hat And a checkered vest Some stripey pants (gun fires) (Joshua hums melodically) - You know, we leave if they - Well, either way, I don't like it. - If the Indians attack, what're - [Joshua] Hello! - We thought you'd never get back. - Prodigal son returneth and alone. - Where's Carney? - Friends, I have news. Bad news. Carney's dead. - Yes, shot from ambush. He must've blabbed in town about the gold. I tried to keep an eye on him, - What happened? - Anyways, a couple of half and uh, well, we broke for it and... They shot Carney. - That's his horse. - He tagged along for company. We can use another horse. We ought to be hauling out - We're lucky to be getting We're leavin'. - Well, now? - You brought the They stole our horses. - Well, they let me ride me back in. - That's because they want all of us. - Poor Carney. - Yeah, his days of trial are over. - Come on, let's load up. - Sheriff. Come with me. Take a look at this. Let's see 'em take these animals. - I can use this. - I'm game to go it with just you. We can fill our gunny sacks What do you say? - I'd like to take the - What time is it, Josh? - Hm? - Eight bells. By Carney's timepiece. - He give it to me. - For shootin' him? One less to divide with? - Now, hold your lip, Captain Bess! You lost your shipmaster's (snake rattles) Don't it never learn you nothin'? (snake rattles) (dramatic orchestral music) (gun fires) Don't do it! Don't do it! - That's for Carney! That's for crossing the lancers! (yells indistinctly) That caused me to lose my own ship! (yells indistinctly) - [Ben] That's enough! - Aye, enough. - He deserved it. - Time for that later. Let's give him his share (horse snorts) - Here. There's your share. - (laughs) What a sorry take! You fools. You take a pittance and you're Here, see? I filled Indians, or no Indians, we got the guns and I'm And if any of you have got All right! Like it or not, I'm going. (dramatic orchestral music) - This is pure gold. - Yep. Very rich. But it'd be suicide goin' up there. It's not for me. You comin'? - It's not for me either, Ben. - Oh, we're all gettin' a - Trask. I'm still taking Stay clear of him! I mean business. Legal business. I could shoot any one of you with right. - Leave them out of it. They've I'll go along with you to El Paso. - I aim to make sure. - If Ben doesn't wanna do it- - Have you lost your mind? - I've found it. - You love him that much, eh? - [Sheriff] Trask? (manacles thud) - Don't be afraid. (thud) (dramatic orchestral music) Make for the city of rocks! On the horse line. Fast, run! (dramatic orchestral music) - The horse! - Let him go. There's no time, come on! (hooves clack) Keep goin'! Keep goin', Laura! (hooves clop) (suspenseful percussive music) - Strange we got away. - Not yet. - I wonder why they only shot one of us. - Oh, they know. Maybe - What do we do now? - Put the horses in there. Their hooves make too much noise. - Well, where's your gold? Left it? All of you? - Do you remember Carney's shortcut? - I remember a balanced rock. - Well, try and find it. Know how to handle a gun? - Let's see, I'll scout this direction. You go that way. Keep a lookout. And if anything happens, - Oh. Lead us not into temptation. - Don't go too far off! It's easy to get lost. (gun cocks) - Ben. - Are you scared? - No, but what if you don't... (suspenseful percussive music) (rock clacks) - Shh, shh! - Now we're shooting each other. - No sign? - Not a sound, either. - Moccasin print. Looks fresh. (horse whinnies) - I heard something like footsteps. Not like boots, they were quiet ones. - There's too much quiet. Tinnen. Which way? He'd yell if they got him. - I found a shortcut and I marked it. - Should we try for it? - One of us might get away. (suspenseful orchestral music) (Joshua screams) Break for it! The shortcut! Come on. Come on, come on. (ominous orchestral music) (distant thuds) (ominous orchestral music) - You two get back. - No. I'll draw their fire. - Aww, stayin' here is easy. - You're not foolin' me. - Get her out of here. You have no choice. Take her away! Hey! (hums melodically) (gun fires) (ominous orchestral music) (hums melodically) (spits) (ominous orchestral music) (bow twangs) (gun fires) (gun fires) (gun fires) (bow twangs) (gun fires) (dramatic orchestral music) (gun fires) (Native Americans howl) (guns fire) - Get outta here, fast! Fast! (dramatic orchestral music) Keep goin', Laura, keep (gun cocks) (gun fires) (Native Americans howl) (gun fires) (gun fires) (bows twang) (bows twang) (thud) (thuds) (gun fires) (bow twangs) (gun fires) (gun clacks) (suspenseful orchestral music) (rock clacks) (bright orchestral music)