The following message by Alistair Life for more information visit I invite you to follow along as I read 24 and reading from the first verse: Philistines, he was told, 'Behold, David is three thousand chosen men out of all Israel of the Wildgoats' Rocks. And he came to the and Saul went in to relieve himself. Now David of the cave. And the men of David said to him, "Behold, I will give your enemy into your hand, you."' Then David arose and stealthily cut off heart struck him, because he had cut off a 'The LORD forbid that I should do this thing to against him, seeing he is the LORD's anointed.' did not permit them to attack Saul. And Saul "Afterward David also arose and went out of the And when Saul looked behind him, David bowed with said to Saul, 'Why do you listen to the words Behold, this day your eyes have seen how the LORD told me to kill you, but I spared you. I said, for he is the LORD's anointed." See, my father, the fact that I cut off the corner of your robe there is no wrong or treason in my hands. I have to take it. May the LORD judge between me and hand shall not be against you. As the proverb wickedness." But my hand shall not be against you. whom do you pursue? After a dead dog! After a sentence between me and you, and see to it and "As soon as David had finished speaking these my son David?' And Saul lifted up his voice and than I, for you have repaid me good, whereas I day how you have dealt well with me, in that you hands. For if a man finds his enemy, will he let good for what you have done to me this day. And and that the kingdom of Israel shall be by the LORD that you will not cut off my offspring out of my father's house.' And David swore this to went up to the stronghold." Your Word, Lord, reminds us that all the things been recorded for our encouragement, so that Scriptures we might have the hope about which our study in this twenty-fourth chapter of is higher than ourselves, even to Christ Well, if you're looking for a summertime read, a book called The Meaning of Everything. It was about science. It's actually a book that concerns think some of you are probably already taking but it is very fascinating--under the editorship was called Professor James Murray, although he was for you. You will only be interested if you share as it's called, technically--and particularly change with the passage of time. For example, Middle Dutch, or Middle German, in the sixteenth meaning--is to seize something forcibly or roughly, Now, allow that to settle in your mind, and then to be invited, for example, if you have attended "If you do not have a bulletin, why don't you a moment," says the waitress, "and I will grab for cultural context, you may have been taught not so that in family life, you remember your sister. Wait until she gives it to you." is in order that we might note that this passage succumb to the temptation to grab something which recognizing that it is only God's to dispose. You the verb to grab is in concurrence with this relationship to the priesthood in Hebrews, where "No one takes this honor for himself," or "no just as Aaron was." So that's the principle. action is in the first seven verses, and then what Or, if you like, the drama is in verses 1-7, First of all, we recognize that here we're been following along as David has been chased he and his men had made their way up from the of Engedi. And Saul, who had been diverted from has now apparently dealt with the Philistines. with the Philistines. It was entirely illegitimate which is seeking to kill the Lord's anointed. from the Rock of Escape to the Wildgoats' Rocks. Israel, you will have this scene very firmly if your guide did not take you here, up in where a perennial spring pours out and down travelers who are trying to make their way to the We're told that Saul has taken "three thousand at all, it will take you all the way back to 13, with him taking hold of three thousand chosen men. a whole lot has moved on. You see the disparity six hundred people that David now has, a variety when you look at that on the basis of simply the and his men have the upper hand. But as we're And Saul chooses to use one of these caves often come into the Scriptures, and so it key part of the narrative--a reminder that even he know that the cave that he had chosen was sequestered. You see that in the text: that sitting in the innermost parts of the cave." In he goes, he's completely oblivious to this, and someone has just come into the cave," looking out says, "Well, can you see him?" And the person the moment. Oh, but wait a minute. It looks like... is perfect! This is ideal! Surely this is the chance," looking at David, "to eliminate him!" David seek to interpret the circumstances as They're the ones who apparently know what David they're collating what they had heard previously. it's an open page here--in 23:4, "David inquired of down to Keilah, for I will give the Philistines God had spoken: "I will give the Philistines are putting two and two together, and they're and Saul is your enemy; he's your enemy David, that you should go and do to him as it say, let's be careful about taking counsel from saying the same thing doesn't mean they're right. response to this circumstance, in the balance of Saul's robe." Now, every time we have a mention of that we had in 15, in that dramatic moment, the way back to the very beginning, you remember a robe. And the story of Samuel and his robe of the book. We remember, too, in chapter 18 as the one who is the heir to the kingdom, that is a very significant thing here that David does Now, compared to what he could have cut off, that his men were saying to one another, "Well, then why don't we just take care of it for you?" where he has to persuade his men and grant Now, in relationship to this, a couple of place--whether his cunning and his stealth makes it possible for him to execute this or whether Saul had removed his robe in order that we know is he cut off a corner of the robe. 5? "And afterward[s] David's heart struck him, I mean, our immediate reaction is to say, "Well, the men said." And we don't even know whether, mind to do. What we do know is his reaction to it. God had departed from Saul, he was still the anointed of the Lord should never be is immediately burdened by what he'd done. It's have been mystified when he said to them, "The the LORD's anointed." You see, what he is off, as it were, symbolically--the kingdom. isn't it? In fact, there is a sense in which we seared conscience, as found in Saul, and If I may just pause for a moment and say a don't look to Freud and those who have followed is a basic building block of our very humanity. Why is it that even from infancy--why is it or of shame; we know, when our conscience is set it that even when you're a tiny boy or a girl on your actions, you attribute to them a moral Freud and those who follow him say, "Well, that's outside of them, the expectations of society, and "I'm sorry, that was a wrong thing to do," Now, we mustn't delay on this, but if you want the fact that when Paul addresses this aspect the law of God--how the law of God, the natural goes on to say, "But even people who don't if you meet them, they also operate on paraphrasing a couple of verses in Romans 2: when not something alien, imposed on us from without, our creation ... something deep within [us] that A guilty conscience is a heavy burden. In lies at the very heart of mental health. And it is in a wonderful sentence, says, "Conscience is Saviour from the broken law and its curse." David conscience. What kind of conscience do you have? in verse 3 we're told that Saul went into the so that all that we have in the intervening unaware of the fact that he was so vulnerable, robe could easily have taken over his life. the conversation. Essentially, what we have are to Saul an explanation, and then one by Saul, Verses 8-15. Picture the scene. Saul is now on way out of the cave and down the hillside, not just his name but his title: "My lord archenemy standing outside the entrance to the And so, here we have this pivotal moment. Not the ground, but he knows when Saul goes to the Saul might have looked and said, "I can't believe you crazy rascal! Do you realize that I have and we'll take care of you in an instant!" It's history with David, doesn't he? I mean, at the none of his army of three thousand, would go out who had explained, "The LORD who delivered me bear will deliver me." Maybe that reverberated So, consider David's greeting. Respectful: "My His question, verse 9: "Why do you listen to the are you listening? Why are you taking advice from 'You have a real problem, because David seeks "You know, I was on the receiving end of bad and you should have rejected it too. They told me though the Lord had given me into your hands; had so worked that by your own free choice which all of us were hiding. But I spared you." holding up a corner of the robe. "See, my father." is not playacting by David. This is sincere. He of the servants of God, and even the flawed consider, by the fact that I cut off the corner that I am not a rebel. You can understand that not seeking to do this to you," the end of verse very straightforward, isn't he? He's quite brave, been looking for you," but then to challenge him plan is, what you want to do, is to eliminate me." it to the Lord to decide this matter. May the Lord against you. If he chooses to do so, fine, notice, he says that twice, there at the end of "My hand shall not be against you. You should hear two statements provide the bread, as it were, proverb, "Out of the wicked comes wickedness." he actually does is apply it to himself. He and I'm not wicked." No. What he essentially says And I would have done what I have chosen not to We could pause here for a while, but we won't. And like this: "Well, I just took matters into my own I cut through the things that everybody any of that in him at all: "If I was "Wickedness comes out of the wicked." You see then he says, "After whom has the king of Israel the envelope. "After whom do you pursue? After a "I don't represent much of a threat. You're the six hundred men. If I introduced you to them, you all." And so, once again, leave it to God: "May he give sentence between me and you, and see to it You notice that David is not saying, in has been parlayed into interesting service--he's He's not saying, "Leave it to God. Who knows?" No, actually like God to act right now and see to it Now, what is happening here? Well, having promise--namely, the throne--he then, like another commits his cause to him who judges justly. Peter uses that when he's talking about the and when we are reviled, and then he says, "And let's look to he who is the Shepherd King, for but he committed his cause to him who judges issue would be settled--many an issue would be corners, if we would refuse to try and take try and avenge ourselves. It's the way of David. You may recall, actually, that when the person kingdom and introduces him in all of his various is said of him is that he is a young man who is if we had no other place to illustrate that Well then, we turn to the final section, something of a confession: "As soon as David Saul said, 'Is this your voice, my son David?'" like calling anybody by their name; it And so he's been referring to him all along as disregarding way. But now, no: "My son David, tears so that he cannot see clearly? And filled with animosity? Not the sword of David, but "Who knows but that God's kindness would lead Now, what's going on here? Is this the stirring of of all that has gone? Suddenly, in the moment, he all of the failure, all of the disappointment just and, in verse 17, tell David, "You know, you're and I repaid you with evil. You didn't try and you. And you even had the opportunity to do know it. Because," he says, "if a man," verse 19, But see, here's the thing: David was Saul's wasn't gonna let him go away safe. As we're David was the one upon whom God had set It's really quite wonderful. It's a precious what we're really listening to is the voice of a a moment of opportunity. And it can be seized, and and glory. And here there is a moment of that is reestablished. It's a passing moment. "Well, I know that you shall surely be the king, your hand." Do you remember back in chapter [23], my father knows this." But this is the first time But you know, what is sad about this is that his is clearly ultimately superficial. It is in short-lived. It's very hard, as we get to sense of self-preservation that is part of this when, in that encounter with Samuel, and he "You're done, you're finished," and then he's for himself and for those who come after him. "Swear to me therefore by the LORD that you will you've cut off my robe, but please don't cut off in history? Yes. Has he any idea of how he will his own library, not realizing that when people he will be remembered as a malevolent David, if he was like me, he would have said, "You cave. I think I'll kill you now." But David swore covenant with Jonathan, his dear buddy, his best said to him, "If I am still alive, show me the and do not cut off your steadfast love from off every one of the enemies of David from the So his sweet response to Saul, who doesn't he had made with his dear and best of friends. up to the stronghold." Why? There's more walls to mend, more chases to elude. to the throne as we're following it is clearly he's chosen not to try and cut the corners. He has try and speed the process. It becomes very, very is not a series of accidental events, but that God yourself to go all the way back to the beginning prayer in chapter 2, it was there that Hannah, as God is the one who brings things down. David--look was prepared to rest in God's providence. And then, to leave God to order all our ways. Is that what I'm doing? With the things the people that challenge us? Do you want to your own hands? You want to say, "I'm bigger want to acknowledge that you are weak and that words of Jesus, am I prepared to seek first and trust that all these other things that are things--will be taken care of by God? Well, a brief prayer before our closing song: You make all things beautiful Lord, please show me every day, That you do just what you say Lord, help us to take our hands from the providential care. For Jesus' sake. Amen. This message was brought to you from Truth For more about truth for life with Alistair