We didn't get the parade, we got the month. Black history month. That's a-- not a big fan. Never liked it. Here's the truth, everybody's got a month. I don't know if you know that or not. In America, everybody's got a month. If you check the calendar, everybody's got a month. There's an Asian month, there's Hispanic month, there's LGBTXYQ month. And everybody's got them. Just Black history month is the one that's gotten all the fame, right. And like I said, never liked it. Mainly because I went to a predominately white school growing up, and I was the only Black kid in my class. And I don't know why you bother having Black history month when there's only one Black kid in the class. Hey, Ron. I'm going to take 28 days and just point out how different are than everyone else in this room. That won't work on your psyche, will it? A little bit. I'm serious. My teacher would do that. OK, tomorrow Rod's going to bring in something else from Africa, because it's Black History month. Isn't that right, Rod? No. No. I can bring you something from Cleveland. I have never been to Africa. I don't know how I got in this prep school, I'm not that smart. I can't find Africa on a map. I went to a school had 437 kids in it, 11 Black kids. I'm the only Black kid in my class. Here's the thing with kids man, they teach you just because you're different. They just-- I'm the only Black, they just tease me. It's not racial, they just tease me because I'm different. I remember one time we took a school field trip to New York City. And my classmates kept asking me, hey Rod, Rod. Rod, take us up to Harlem, right. Show us around. You'll protect us, won't ya? No, that's not going to happen. I'm nine years old. I'm not protecting anybody. I came on the same bus from Ohio you idiots did. I don't know anything about-- Here's a little tip. Because apparently white people, you don't know this. But Black people, we're scared of Black people too, so. And if you're Black and you don't laugh, you're lying to yourself. You know what I'm talking about. Everybody Black has had that moment where you walk in somewhere, and there's a whole bunch of Black people don't know. You go, whoa. What is going on here? Get your purse, baby. We're not staying. I don't know who these people are. That's how bad this country really is in terms of how we treat each other, right. Like how bad the stereotypes are, right. I'm afraid of my own people. I'm going to tell you a true story. I went to the airport three years ago to go to Tampa, Florida. And when I got to my gate, it was all Black people. All Black people. Like there were 122 Black people getting on the plane. And I'm like, what is going on here? I was concerned, right. I'm like, what am I flying, soul plane? What is happening? Am I flying soul plane? Is Kevin Hart the pilot? What is happening? I got so nervous, I called the flight attendant. Come here, come here, come here, come here. Who are all of these people? I called my own people these people, right. And then she got cute. I thought they came with you sir. No, no, no, no. That didn't happen. I didn't bring a hundred and something Black people to the airport in my Ford Focus. What are you ridiculous? That's the reality, ladies and gentlemen, in terms of all the stuff that you hear in the world about race. The reality is, we're exactly alike. Black people are scared of Black people in large numbers when we're not expecting it, just like you are when you go someplace. Well, not here in Utah. But if you got on a plane and you went to Las Vegas, or some major city like Chicago, or Saint Louis. You would see a whole lot of Black people and you would be scared, because I've seen you. I've seen white people when you get in a room and it's all people that are not you. You get that weird high thing that you do. Hi. Hi. Hi. So the little wave. Hi. Hello. Hi. I'm the exact same way. I get somewhere there's a whole lot of Black people I don't know, I'm nervous too. That's why I live where I live, with all the White gay guys. Because I used to live in an all Black neighborhood, I did. And I was nervous all the time. And you know, wow. You guys don't know anything about it, but I'm serious. It's nerve wracking, it really is. Because I was just scared all the time. Because you live in an all Black neighborhood, you get robbed. Seriously. I'm not saying anything bad about my people, I'm just saying. A guy could pull up on a moving van and take off all your stuff right out the front door, and you're Black neighbors will just look out the window going, ooh, he's getting robbed. Baby they got his big screen. They got his big screen, they're taking it. Should I call the police? You better mind your own business. That's why I like having white neighbors, I really do. Because white people, you make a neighborhood safe. You do. Because you're nosy, you ask questions. You ask a lot of questions. Let a strange Black guy pull into my driveway, my gay neighbors will come outside. Hello. Hi. Hi. I'm Steve, this is my boyfriend Brian. Who are you exactly? When I get home, right. I get the lowdown. Your friend Tyrone came by. He just bought a new car. He seems nice. White guys take the neighborhood seriously, man. They do. Like there is a real thing. A white guy hears the noise outside. Like he gets up at 3:00 in the morning go pee, right. He hears a noise outside. He looks out the window, and there's a guy out there messing with cars. He takes interest in that. What's going on out here? Honey, there's a guy out here messing with cars. What time is it, three? Wake up there's a guy out here messing with cars. What is he doing? What is that man doing? I'm going out there. I'm going out there. And you do, you go right out there. Nothing on but boxer shorts, black socks, sandals. You start yelling at the guy. Hey, buddy. Hey. Hey, buddy. Hey. Hey, what are you doing? Yeah, you with the pistol and the ski mask on. What are you doing? Your Black neighbors are looking out the window going, he's about to get shot, baby. He's about to get shot. That's not even his car. Why is he interested like that? That man keeps his neighborhood safe, because I wouldn't go out there. I'm not going out there at all, because it's not even my car. OK.