I have a message today, that came to me during had a different message prepared. Some of you the first service, I felt to address something in the spiritual life of many people here, you coming for the first time today, receive will also be for our church, and I want to title In Deuteronomy, chapter 32 verse 11, it says hovers over its young, spreading out its wings, a mother eagle, gives birth to eaglets, she feathers, with leaves, so that the eaglets could what every responsible mother would do for their who are fed because mother eagle brings them food, want to leave the nest, because kids don't want and you're still with your parents because you too comfortable. So, maybe this message will help So, an eagle, what the eagle does is, sometimes, wings, create a wind where all the feathers will eaglets are left being poked by sharp thorns. &quot;Get me out, this is painful, this hurts&quot;, and them on her wings, soar, and of course the eaglets you know, a fly in the sky, this is amazing.&quot; wings. So, what she would do is, she would And then, they go from our life was hard why do you hate me? Why did you drop me? and yelling, probably crying, why did you do you would never let it happen. And, right and smash themselves, the eagle flies faster than you fall. She would come down straight and drop them again. The goal isn't to punish So, they were never created, eagles were not to live in the sky. But sometimes, you get so feathers that God stirs some things up, and things the vicissitudes of life, the changes of life, changes. We get, because our body is not adapting we're like, &quot;Lord, why did you take the feathers?&quot; not for the nest, but for the sky. So, then we and God's blessings, but still we are living very much addicted to our mood, our happenings, by once in a while dropping us. And, I don't mean presence. And, we go through a spiritual and it's to develop us and in us something is that your Christian life is not supposed You're an eagle. You are not a chicken. You are you belong in the sky. You're supposed to live by to live a life of victorious. It's within it's what you were built for. Every chicken It doesn't matter how many schools the chicken words chicken gets. A chicken is a chicken, but an an ability to fly. And my friend, my God is an image, and likeness. He makes us like him to live of love. Amen. So what I want to present to you is happening right now. Five things that we shift. If you're taking notes, write this down. my servant, is dead. Now, therefore arise and to the land which I am giving to them, This book of the law shall not depart from your that you may observe to do according to all that prosperous and then you will have success. Have courage, do not be afraid, nor be dismayed, for The shift number one, where God is taking you out One of those feathers, that I'm describing, or a partner that you were with, or someone even in the church. In our and I can track it, where the shift took with somebody leaving. When I was younger, out. I was always asking what did I do wrong, and but usually, what I want to encourage transitions people out of our life because He's Moses died, and the Lord came to Joshua, somebody left your life, if maybe somebody God's grace is going to leave your life. And through a divorce and maybe a spouse that was not they didn't leave you, you left them because it it was not safe for you, it was not safe people will pronounce curses and they will I came here to tell you, first of all to cancel God's blessing is not connected to those who left that stays with you. Moses was the guy, he had God tells Joshua, wherever you go I will be that's where I went. God doesn't attach Himself to and He says, The book of the law shall not depart and night, that you may observe according to do to prosperous. This is encouragement to me because that God left, my destiny left. It simply means the wall has been built, and God is preparing me Some people come for a reason, some come for a God removes people that are good because He's Those good people were not great for you, they people that are great for you. Think of disciples, but they couldn't step into their calling until Jesus left. They couldn't have Jesus in flesh, it's better that I leave because the Spirit will I really have for you to be fishers of men. So, they're just not meant for the season that you is because you will notice, and you probably you will notice the shift in your own life where this is not a moment right now to begin to what I'm saying is if somebody chooses to If God brings you that change, if you have a maybe, have broken and you feel so betrayed, and that you were leaning on. I want to encourage that sticks closer than a brother, His name is Him, and step into your new season. Advance everybody in the gym said? I love the fact gym. I love that. Number two. The second shift, It says the following, Joshua 5 verse 12, day after they had eaten the produce of no longer had manna but they ate food of the the second shift that happened was that, Israel menu. Now, what was manna? Manna was the temporary God wants to provide for us God's dream for you is not so you make it. Alright. God's promise for you is that you enough. Manna was this thing that would fall from through Friday, Israel would gather it and they but God never promised them manna. He promised they didn't build. Vineyards they didn't plant, for 40 years, they live on this manna, they enter stops showing up. And this wasn't because God them into a new season, where now they will women sitting in this sanctuary and in the gym from God to run a business, but today you are you are being provided by God, and you're it's an answer from God, it puts food on your that God shifts things in your life, and how job. Company, starts to cut people, you get laid God why did you leave me? I'm here to remind God gave you. It was part of God's provision, and and your destiny. Now again, I am not You're like, Amen, I'm gonna go, give my letter of That is not my purpose. Well, my goal today is to job. I want you to think outside of your nest, and of the limits that you've been experiencing and pay the bills, and you have a little bit toward and you're just doing better than other people, for you is not just for you to pay your bills, So that, one day you will have people working for keeping them employed. There are people here, God have your own business, but you are scared because you have a lot of money that means you're greedy. start businesses, and when they start businesses, they help people to provide for their needs, kingdom purposes and kingdom finances. They will build centers for God, they will sponsor school is for Christians to have money. You know who he people in the government, who will take all of and funnel to spread garbage in our schools. That we shouldn't have enough money. We shouldn't They are greedy, and the church is afraid to fall into greed? What if I fall into materialism? and to let you know it is God's will for you to of raising your family, helping your children God puts on your heart, and so you can Come on somebody, in the gym, I can't hear you, if God removes manna because He's preparing you the Bible says, the Lord is my shepherd I lack. That's the stage of provision. It's when for us. The job I have, is God's provision. So, why I can get a paycheck from my employer, and I gave you that. It came through you, but it came gave me the strength to show up to work, and for the provision. Can somebody say, Amen? The Lord is my shepherd I shall not lack. He me beside the still waters. He restores my soul. name's sake. So, you're like, it's incredible, I'm some stuff into the retirement, I am paying off my being led by God. He makes me lay down at green me in the still waters. He gives me peace. Life through the valley of the shadow of death. What is attacking me? But, sometimes it's not a devil. valley, meaning I don't rent an apartment there, Not only provision is temporary, but poverty is and the Bible says, I fear no evil. That means, devil to show up, I'm expecting God to show up. I I walk through the difficult season of, and I can't make ends meet, like God was here, and are with me in the valley. You are with me in the struggle. You are with me when I cannot make ends not because God is punishing me. It's not because sometimes part of a life of going through stuff of and it says that You anoint my head with oil. You make me eat in the presence of though my situation doesn't change, And the devil is like, &quot;You're not it. You're not gonna make it&quot;. And, he keeps and you're driving him crazy because him to death by keep eating the Word, keep And you're not even paying it's like you're completely blocking him up. And Have you ever been offended when somebody a biggest black eye. Just ignore. He says, you won't make it, and you just the presence of your enemy, but it doesn't runs over. So, we started with my needs are met. Hell broke loose, where is God? I lost my job, give you new ideas. God is beginning to feed to a place, not back to the place you were. God take trip into your future. He doesn't want you future He has for you. God is always moving for the job you lost. Start praying for the job joker back. He wasn't good for you anyway. Ask Him Stop asking for those things God wants to take you to the cup That's the shift number two. It's when milk and honey. Shift number three, and our consecration because the place you're And we see this in Joshua chapter 3 Verse 5 it says, Sanctify yourselves for tomorrow the end of the verse 4 says this, For you have today, you've never owned your home yet, but you've never been married, you're about to into a season you've never walked in before. you need pre-marriage counseling. Yes, you need one thing the scripture tells us in verse, the yourselves for tomorrow. Sanctify yourselves for of you in the gym say, Tomorrow. Tomorrow, I will and one of the ways that you know the shift your heart to raise the level of your commitment. kind of one of those, you know, maybe you come you come, and then God begins to challenge you to Lord begins to challenge you, Hey, begin to pray Hey, this whole giving thing, begin to practice thing I fast, the only thing I do fast is the fast That's for the Jesus freaks. Well, the Lord is Sanctify yourself honey because tomorrow no qualification for. For tomorrow you're about but you have no experience in. God says, I want foundation for your life by increasing your God. What was permissible in the wilderness is not maybe, in the seasons where you were complacent, that's no longer okay. Why? Because you are the difference between me and the boxer. I can Somebody who's gonna box ain't gonna do that. they're in a preparation mode to fight something, I don't want to watch somebody fight. I want to stop eating the Big Macs. To be in the fight, not so you can be, I'm better than you, I'm holier No! It's so that I can be fit for the fight that for the miracle God is taking me. For tomorrow, Therefore I look to my tomorrow with expectation word right there. Somebody should tweet that. I have sown today my consecration. Amen. Today's tomorrow's pleasure. Today's fasting is tomorrow's prosperity. Today's righteous living is tomorrow's Don't be discouraged, if you sow today and a preparation for what tomorrow comes. That's why because I see the seeds we're planting today. I tomorrow is going to be wonders and miracles and split, dead bones coming alive, marriages people's lives. I am excited for the tomorrow my marriage. I'm excited for the tomorrow of my It works the other way as well. Today's flirting is tomorrow's powerlessness. Today's compromise tomorrow's bankruptcy, is tomorrow's loss, and were two people whose stories were parallel. One was not good. She was a prostitute, a temple she lived not in a good place, yet she was hiding Achan, who had a good thing going for him, he was future, but this boy decided to hide forbidden And so, it didn't look like anything at first. knows about it and nobody can find it. And, hiding spies, you know didn't change anything by whom she hid today. His tomorrow was changed he lost his life and he got turned into a of what he was hiding one day. Rahab on the other when the wall fell in Jericho, her apartment up marrying one of the guys. So, not only she Come on somebody! That's like a full package. The but it wasn't right away. So, let me ask you Because tomorrow is being determined right now what do you do? Are you taking what are you doing? Are you building something or are you simply entertaining yourself boredom and your loneliness, drinking single thing. You're like, man, I just love Today's dedication is tomorrow's destiny, but just wanna, for those of you, who are here, you're knows about it. I'm going to give you a little letting you get caught is because He's giving He doesn't want a scandal. He doesn't want sins are not catching up, it's not because you're it's that God in heaven is postponing the harvest a chance to repent, but you on the other hand but it's actually really good. This tastes really you're being fooled and God is merciful giving of you in here who are giving, sacrificing, who improving yourself, getting yourself in shape, life that you not supposed to, but you're putting something the reason why God is not letting you your reward is accumulating interest, and about to hit your life, so that blessing doesn't and there are people in this room, He is preparing Whether you need to repent or you need to just be on your tomorrow, by not messing up your today. YouTube, drop that fire emoji. Number four, the and that is this, in Joshua chapter 4 verse 7, it Jordan were cut off before the ark of the covenant the waters of the Jordan were cut off, and these Israel forever. So, the fourth shift that I want somebody leaves our life we should bless them, not should be anchored in God not to be discouraged. checks, but that you don't collect depression. The third thing that I mentioned, is that, while Don't screw up your future. I mean don't mess all of those decisions will end up in your future, not seeing any consequences, and you think you got it you're just accumulating your own problems, there's a fourth thing, and this is huge, and vicissitude of life, transform, changes in the background story. Israel goes through Jordan I want you to take stones from Jordan, and put when your children one day says, what is this God did a miracle for us, and He pulled us God pretty much is saying to Israel, I want you what I did for you even for future generations. for a few reasons. One of them is, Israel had a just Israel's problem. It's the America's Hispanics also complain, Russians complain, humans complaining. Complaining usually comes from this. be doing. He's not sending me a husband. He's not He's not doing something. So, what we do is, all the rocks that God has not done, and it builds we're angry with Him, we're upset at God, so He shatters that whole world and He says, intentionally build a memorial of stones of what many of us forget things we should remember, We remember our mistakes, but we don't remember certain things didn't happen, that God didn't tell guess what happens? We enter into and God doesn't speak anymore. We don't feel around us, and we try to get this faith, you you know, this inner strength to get through you know, and sometimes people are like, man, to prayer, I feel like I'm not connecting give you a secret. It's life-changing. When it's not because the teacher is angry with So, what do you do when one thing to do is what I did in school. I don't know the answer. Could you plays dumb. He doesn't come to me. He says. I was tired when the teacher spoke all the time, but now when I want the teacher to speak, I'm taking a test. What do you do when you're and remember everything the teacher told That's how you get the right answer to your quiz. Remember every other time He has spoken. Where moving and you feel like this is going to be the Jordan and God showed you through and God was God was there for you when you were abused, but God pulled you out of that, He delivered you you a new your life. Remember when you lost your gonna be there for you now. If He did it then, He didn't get a word from God. We don't hear Goliath, I anoint thee, to go take that head off, like that. You know where David got the faith that and says, &quot;How do you know you're going to defeat of my memorial stones. There was a situation with the bear is dead&quot;, he says, &quot;This Goliath, this faith for his present battle from his previous struggle from his previous success, that he If you're going through something, and you feel you have no courage, and strength to go through, He did. Bless the Lord oh my soul, and forget not how He cleanses you, how He heals your diseases, mercies, delivers your life from destruction. your memory. Some of you don't have a problem with forget things you should remember, but you always sins, you always remember the stuff that God has to remember the faithfulness of God, the goodness words He gave you before. Come on somebody! praise. Come on everybody in the gym, give God you and I know He has, if He has seen you through before and I know He has, if God has came through praise. And the last thing. The last thing is memorials instead of monuments, but Israel when for everything that God has promised. God didn't and He does not run a social program. He does fight. He asked us to fight. In the Egypt, Israel God delivered Philistines to them. In the promised soldiers. I want to challenge you today. When delivered, this does not mean attacks will stop. them by the power of the word of God in the name this common thing, is they come back and they say, attacking me, I feel it in my heart, I feel it Pastor could you pray for me? And yes, we're gonna today is to begin to exercise your authority as and drove out the enemies. Begin to go into drive out evil things, drive out evil spirits, and get what you promised, you get what you fight we fight from victory. But, this idea that when have any struggles, demons will no longer come scriptural. Demons will still be our problem, he will flee from us. Behold, I saw Satan fall, upon scorpions and snakes and serpents and nothing will crush Satan from under your feet, through the we can reign in life. God has blessed them and fill the earth, and have dominion over this your vicinity so that you can walk in authority of that unclean spirit, harassing you to get out the first service, and she says, I've been coming said, I went to a meeting yesterday, and someone like, something, that got on me, and followed me home, and she's like because I go to this church, soldier. She's a tiny little old woman. And so, the room, whatever this is get off of me, go. And, just make sure that it's like crushed completely. because she's like, this thing doesn't follow not an audience. This is not a daycare, if you're just a brand new believer, that's say but for the rest of us, grow up. Turn from a Get angry at the Devil. Come on! Don't fold like a sufferings come to everybody, but you can conquer. get behind Me Satan, for you are an offense to Me, things of man. Jesus didn't just say, oh Father, he's bullying me, Father could you just get the you. Don't let the devil bully you. Rise up. morning, shake off the dust, go into your prayer, door that I have had, please forgive me. Devil, you get out of my house, go to my neighbor's neighbor's house. Go to my ex's house, you know. stand your ground. Don't fold, when the enemy oh, I need to just tell everybody to pray for but there's many of you, your sword is your sword has never been on the neck of your You gotta use it once in a while. You gotta use need before you will pull this sword out from your You come against the spirit of fear, you come Hungrygen is not a deliverance church, we are are a church that believes the Christians overcoming attitude in their life. This idea you know what, I read the statistic. They said jail. I wonder if deliverance is the same freed from something and instead of learning these vicissitudes of life with God's word, and we go back to the altar for the your ground and tell that symptom You got healed of back pain, three days later oh, I didn't get healed, you can tell that that's the wrong address. I was healed, get or you can say, oh yeah, that's fine, oh it came report that it came back. Oh pastor you didn't of course of course it will come back. Pharaoh but Israel didn't let the Pharaoh to drag bye-bye bye-bye we're leaving, and as they kept God will drown your Pharaoh in the Red Sea those of you in the gym, God will drown your that depression if you don't give up. Rise up rise up as soldier of God. Stop taking the by the enemy. The enemy is afraid of you. like a righteous lion in Jesus mighty name. I I want to build full of warriors. We for our children. Adults are soldiers. We're going to fight for our neighborhoods, we're fight for our children, we're gonna fight for our we're gonna fight for our finances. Now, does that prayer? Absolutely not the case. When you come you. What I'm saying is when you go home, you pray When you go home don't just talk to God. If the I'm not saying, you go all out bananas on him, No, no, that stuff, but you just rebuke him, just but I'm a tiny little Christian. Trust me. tiny police officer pulls me over, I'm as scared me over because it's not about their size, it's it doesn't matter how small you are, what what matters is the authority, you have the