Behold, this infinite a dizzying cascade of fractals. Arrays of complex patterns filled with both and surprising, novel features. All of the structure and the patterns There is some sort of innate mathematical that you see. This is the Mandelbrot set. These trippy images represent a form one made possible by computers. A handful of mathematicians have devoted It plays this very central role much, more complicated systems. And we may be on the verge So what exactly is the Mandelbrot The Mandelbrot set is a perfect example incredible complexity. At its core, the set is generated by a simple formula whose To iterate a quadratic equation, plug it into the function, then take the output and feed The study of how recursive functions like field of math called This subject came about with the What are the mathematics that underlie Most important early example So dynamical systems that you have some assigning as time moves on, how that space evolves and In the early 20th century, mathematicians, Pierre Fatou and Gaston Julia set Mandelbrot set with their To investigate these dynamical systems, today known as Julia Sets, Julis sets are produced by iterating A complex number is defined a real part and an imaginary part. Each complex number can be The real part is a number The imaginary part is a multiple which mathematicians write Despite the name, imaginary numbers play a vital role To construct a Julia set, start F of Z equals Z squared plus C. Choose a value for C like Then consider what happens when you for every possible starting value. You repeatedly apply the function to the sequence of numbers and you ask whether or not that sequence or whether it stays bounded. For some initial values, your when iterated like this. These values are not in a Julia set. When you start iterating you might instead get a sequence When something comes back to itself, and that's where the complexity arises. The boundary between points that stay You can fill it in by Different quadratic equations generate From basic blobs to intricate twisting tendrils. Filled Juliia sets can Sets where you can draw a line from one pen are connected. Sets where points look like scattered pieces of dust are disconnected. The first rough plot of the Mandelbrot mathematicians Robert Soon after Benoit Mandelbrot, who had access to more computing This led to further explorations. These early computer graphics were crude, but the patterns revealed the presence Even with fuzzy, poorly made pictures in the Eighties, they were able to really glean a lot of Mandelbrot went on to popularize became known as the Today, mathematicians can use computers to As soon as you have images The Mandelbrot set is It's constructed by iterating the same Julia sets. But here things are flipped around. Instead of iterating all values we fix the starting value of Values of C, where iterations of Z squared plus C While those that go to infinity are not. Here, we can select points inside the Mandelbrot filled Julia sets. The Mandelbrot set acts like an atlas, cataloging the different Values of C inside the Mandelbrot set While values outside the set The Mandelbrot set has but its biggest mysteries lie Zooming in to different boundary regions A valley of seahorses, parades of elephants and miniature So we can sort of keep finding nests, a sets, all one inside of the next. Here at the boundary, mathematicians As you look at it, it sort of seems is it all connected? Or maybe there's some separating piece. This question is central to a 40-year-old called the Mandelbrot Locally Connected Conjecture or MLC. If the set is locally connected, that means that no matter what point you the area will always look For example, if we we can see that it's locally but take a fine-toothed comb and zoom in. While the comb is one connected shape, at close range, it can look disconnected. If mathematicians can then a complete understanding of the This local connectivity question, if this will give us almost complete control The hope is that once we completely we can go on to looking at more complicated dynamical and be able to describe them more and more. But a full understanding of the collective fascination Hard to imagine that it wouldn't even if we fully understood it, because it is so complicated