Translator: Sue Su What is the best kind of cheese Someone knows over here? Obviously, the answer is &quot;come here bear.&quot; Camembert! (Laughter) Camembert! (Applause) Thank you. I have a head full of cheese puns, but I was told I had to keep it 'brie'-f. (Laughter) What did the piece of cheese say when it looked into the mirror? No. It said, &quot;Halloumi.&quot; (Laughter) Hello me! What can I say guys? I love a good pun. Why? I don't know; because puns are funny, right? Why? Well, because there is You feel outsmarted for a second Why? Because that's the way language works. OK. I get what these slides are doing. They're playing the why game where you keep asking, after everything someone says. Kids do it all of the time and adults should do it more often. I'm just kidding. Don't. It's annoying. (Laughter) You can ask why, over, and over, even if one day, we explain every physical interaction, and hope, and dream, and regret You could still ask, Why doesn't the universe operate So, yes; the why game and it's what I do for a living. Every week, for the past few years, I have researched a big question, I've researched the science's, behind all kinds of things. I do this on my YouTube channel: Vsauce. So, Vsauce, in the last couple It's hard to believe. I'm now doing more than 30 million views with five and a half subscribers growing more It's awesome. I love it. I get to ask For instance, &quot;Is anything real?&quot; Come on! How can you possible answer that? Well, that's not really the point. The point is to bring people in make them curious, and once they're there, accidentally teach them a whole bunch (Laughter) Some examples how much does a shadow weigh? What does it mean to ask What color is a mirror? In answering this question, about specular reflection, This is one of my favorites, (Laughter) I often go into psychology but a question I have yet to answer, please tell me if it's technically (Laughter) It's ridiculous. But it's a really good question. I ask questions all of the time, Why do we ask questions? Seriously. I mean, what's the point? Who cares why things are creepy? Who cares why this is called my bottom? It's gross, don't do that anymore. Questions. How do I get people Especially people who think I like to believe that the limits are unlimited. And this is my story. I began making YouTube videos but only recently did I start I've no idea what took me so long. I have been explaining things Except, usually, I did it alone, out loud. I talk to myself If you snuck up on me you would overhear me explaining It's kind of weird, maybe. OK, it's really weird, for me to know that I kind of know if I can verbally explain it. As Albert Einstein said, &quot;If you can't explain it simply, When I was a teenager, I discovered and one of the events where you literally got to write a speech and then you were given points and medals My very first informative speech ever the history of ketchup. its legal status, the physics It was super nerdy stuff. But at my very, very first I took first place. Hey! (Applause) Look at that guy. (Applause) Some of the hair here moved down here, I'm the same guy. Seriously, I'm still doing the same thing. To be at that tournament and to see when they suddenly understand in the same way that you are is a phenomenal feeling. I've learned two things from this: first of all, people love They hunt them down. Even people who say they hate learning, pff, they love explanations. Second of all, if you look closely enough and you take the time, anything can be interesting to anyone because everything is related Richard Feynman called &quot;the pleasure of finding things out&quot; And I agree, but I think Let's get rid of this picture of me. We want to express ourselves, everyone wants to express themselves. They do it through the music the way they act, The things they know Their interests, their hobbies. I've noticed behind someone sharing one of my videos, isn't so much about me &quot;Hey! Look what I found!&quot;, &quot;I like this.&quot; &quot;I am like this.&quot; Whenever you share a video, a few of the attributes I've found that one of the best ways is not to be who you think but instead, to say, that allow your audience or your students I once discussed in a video, &quot;Why the sky is blue?&quot; And backstage, when I was going through I ran into this girl. This seriously actually happened I said, &quot;Do you know why the sky is blue?&quot; She said, &quot;I think I used to know, Exactly. Exactly. And I knew It turns out that the sky is blue because of the way light It's called Rayleigh scattering. A light of shorter wave lengths so, greens, blues, and violets. That's why when you look at the sky you see this beautiful sky blue; it's all of those shorter When you look directly at the Sun don't do it ever - you see the longer wave lengths That's why the Sun looks yellow Of course, when the Sun's light to get into your eyeball, a lot of scattering occurs, and only really, really long wave lengths directly from the Sun, which is why it looks orange, I think that's really cool, - including someone Or maybe they already know it, or could probably figure out So what do you do? I'm trying to collect I want to appeal to and attract So what I do is In this case, Rayleigh scattering. I've learned as much about it as I can. What else is it responsible for? Who is it named after? Who did he love? Whatever I can find to bring in just the right person. So, in this case, I've read and I realized-- that blue eyes are blue Blue eyes do not have Ouch! That would hurt if that was real. Blue eyes don't have blue pigment in them any more than the air If you were to rip out my iris, (Laughter) if you grounded it up into a fine powder, it would be Instead, blue eyes are blue their texture scatters light just like the air in our atmosphere to make the sky blue. Maybe you already know maybe you don't care, but maybe you will be fascinated This is why my episodes often seem It's not just because I'm crazy as many hooks out as possible to catch as many people I once did a video about rainbows. I thought, &quot;Some people I'll teach about rainbows. What other types of bows are there? Well, like when a string, like a knot... Is a bow a knot? Why do headphones I researched the mathematics ([Laughter) I'll spare you all of the details; also, this will allow you and give me many, many views In the 1950s, Harold Edgerton of nuclear explosions. This is a detonation just milliseconds after happening, with an exposure time You can see the energy the energy of the explosion is vaporizing That's where these glowing, His work attracted wider and new interest simply because he featured something that people couldn't help A moment you couldn't witness alone. He famously said, &quot;The trick to education is to teach in such a way that people only find out (Laughter) It works for me. So recently, I took on but also the most requested, &quot;How do I know that the colors How do I know you don't look at the same thing but you call it red because that's and we both agree, never knowing just how different There's no such thing but there are questions This is one of them because there is no way for me to see the world as they see it. I thought that might be that there really wasn't a good answer. I couldn't finish this once and for all. So I started looking And the more I read the more I realized that questions Apes that have been taught to use They can answer complex questions, they can convey novel thoughts, but an ape who knows sign language has never been observed to ask a question. Soliciting information from an organism that other organisms, in some way, that they have different, It's often called the Theory of Mind, and it is incredibly difficult to show But of course, Chimpanzees are clever, but they fail a pretty simple, to get food that's been hiding in a room: a person who was literally in the room or a person who was also in the room, but has had a bucket Whether or not animals have the capacity But after reading all of this, I realized We ask them because it's fun. Learning things is a fun experience, it's what Feynman called, We also ask questions because learning things allows us and to show off what we know about it, But we also ask questions because we can; because perhaps uniquely here on Earth, And that's a great reason to celebrate more and more whys. We all want to be &quot;kicked it feels great, but we don't all have Taking the time to find so you can give them a kick there isn't just about whys, And as always, thanks for watching. (Applause)