(slow country music) - Well, aren't you a tall drink of water? - What are you doing? - What? - I'm married, darling. - Me too. (laughs) - Yeah? - (chuckles) Where's your husband at then? - He's in Sacramento. (laughs) Where's your wife? (Rip chuckles) - My wife is standing right (country music) - I'll handle this. - Don't do that, now. - I'm gonna. (country music) Oh, shit. (glass shatters) (crowd shouting) (brakes squeak) - What the fuck? (guide speaks Chinese) (grizzly growls) Hey! Hey! (guide speaks Chinese) Hey! You outta your mind? Get back. Get back, all right? Get back before that thing eats somebody. - It seems friendly. - Well it's not. Now get back. - We won't get any closer. (guide speaks Chinese) - You see that fence? That's mine. That fucking fence down Everything this side of that mountain, all the way over to here, mine too. You're trespassing. Trespassing. (guide speaks Chinese) (grizzly growling) (tourist speaks Chinese) - They don't believe you. - What? (tourist speaks Chinese) - What's he saying? What's he saying? - Says that it's wrong for He says you should share - Yeah? (tourists scream) (grizzly growls) (tourists talking) (gun fires) This is America, we don't share land here. (grizzly growls) (bus engine revs) (thunder crackles) (somber music) - I can't tell anything from this. (thunder crackles) Where were you standing? - I was standing right over there. - Get shell casings? - Looked, didn't find anything 'cause I don't think (suspenseful music) - Rip, get my rifle. (suspenseful music) - Here you go. (shotgun clicks) - No, no, I was kneeling. (shotgun fires) (shotgun fires) - [John] You sure you were here? - [Rip] I'm sure, sir. - Give it to me. Give it to me. (thunder crashes) - Huh, just forgot you That's evidence. - [John] Where'd you find it? This time no bullshit. - Where he said. - Right where Rip said. (thunder crashes) - I'd say it was about 15 yards. Pretty damn close. - Shit, close enough for me. - That is self-defense, Sheriff. I have no idea why you and disguise that. - (scoffs) I forgot I picked it up, okay? Jesus Christ. - Gentlemen. (thunder crashes) - Look at me. What the hell are you up to? - I ain't up to shit. And that shell casing with Fish and Wildlife but I just pulled two dead And I ain't taking your muscle's - Heard you got a membership How much that cost you (Donnie scoffs) - It ain't cheap, John. - I'm starting a list, Donnie. You just made your way on it. (pensive music) The whole county is turning on me, Rip. The whole fucking place. (pensive music) Thank you. Hi. - Hi. - Dan Jenkins's office? - Do you have an appointment? - Not what I asked. (dramatic music) - Hey. (tense music) (bottle shatters) - Fuck! (chair clatters) - You know what a fucking - I didn't kill your fucking cattle! - I know. The Beck brothers did it. So I'd turn on you. They did it 'cause you're building the biggest fucking casino right up against my goddamn fence. And if that's what they're gonna do to me, God knows what they're gonna do to you. So you and I find ourselves - It's not my casino anymore. Rainwater's pushing me out and the Beck brothers A little late. Wait outside. (tense music) - I think you, Mr. Rainwater, and clear the air. - Yeah. I can arrange that. - Thank you. - That was a nice move. - It wasn't a move, I'm - Beth, we're closed at the moment, we- - Where is she? - Who? - My sister-in-law. Well, I'm no lawyer, but I that deals with unlawful - This search is voluntary. - Sure doesn't look voluntary to me. (camera clicks) Leave her alone. Get dressed. I went to high school with you. And you, you babysat her husband. - On her driver's license, - I doubt that's gonna save you, buddy. - Let's go. - Thank you. - Wait. Don't go. (lock clicks) You'll miss all the fun. While I'm here, I might as well shop. Oh, that's nice. (glass shatters) Nah. Not for me. (glass shatters) And you. You fucking cunt. I remember when you gave out hand jobs for lunch money, Veronica. That was before the boob job. (glass shatters) And the dermabrasion. (glass shatters) And the doctor dumb enough to marry you. - They cut the fucking fence. - It's too early to get in a fight. (rock music) - Hey! How you doing? - What do these rednecks want? - Listen, you can't be here. It's private property. - This is National Park. - That's National Park. This is the Dutton Ranch. - Sign says Yellowstone, - The Y is for the Yellowstone Ranch. - You said Dutton Ranch. - It's the Yellowstone Dutton Ranch. Listen, I need you to or I'm gonna have to (bikers murmuring) - That badge says livestock agent. - That's right. - Oh, it's the fucking cow police. (bikers laugh) - Look at this pink haired You got a problem bitch? - The fuck you just say to me? - I called you a fucking- (punch thuds) (everyone grunting) - You gotta be fucking kidding me. (engine revving) (motorbikes crashing) (dramatic music) - Motherfucker! (man grunts) You're fucking dead man. (people grunting and shouting) I'll fucking shoot you. - That'll be the last - You better get after it then. Too late. Which one of these assholes Which one of these motherfuckers? - The big guy with the beard. - Him? Him? Get up, get up! Get up. I'm gonna give you one last chance. You leave now or you'll never leave. I'll bury you where you fucking stand. Get the fuck outta here. - You heard him. - Let's go. - Hey Rip, where'd you get your jacket? - Murdoch's I believe in Dylan. - Is it a Filson? - I don't know. I mean, it kind of looks like a Filson. I really like them They look hot on a girl. You know what I think looks hot? When a girl wears a like nothing underneath, just the jacket. I think that's sexy. If you think about it exactly what they're supposed to wear. But for girls, it's sexy to wear what you're not supposed to wear. I don't know, I wonder why that is? I guess it's the taboo of it. Oh shit, these are Kerry Kelley Spurs. Hoo, I bet these sons of a bitches sing all the way down the barn alley. God damn, you need to - How much are they? - They're like a thousand dollars. - A thousand dollars. - Hey, cool shit ain't cheap and cheap shit ain't cool, okay? Some Kerry Kelley Spurs you may not be a cowboy, but Hey, if y'all were on a desert island and could only listen to one what would it be? And remember that son 24/7 from the heavens I would choose &quot;Turtles All The Way Down&quot; by Sturgill Simpson personally. Man, I would lay buck listen to that song. Pray the rescue boat never finds me. You know that song, Rip? - Hmm, what song? - &quot;Turtles All The Way Down&quot;. Let me play it for you, - Yes, Mia, you know what? Put on some music. Wouldn't that be nice, Jimmy? Some music would be nice, wouldn't it? - I swear you're gonna love it. - Right. I've seen Jesus play with flames In a lake of fire I was standing in Hey, come here, come here. When we get back to the ranch, I'm gonna kill you with my I'm gonna kill you for this. (Rip sighs) Met Buddha yet another time Showed me a glowing light within (cattle mooing) - You see the brands? - I did. (door knocking) Livestock officer, open up. (door knocking) Open the door. Watch the front. I'll take the back. (tense music) Get off the wall. - What? - Get off the fucking wall. Turn your chest to the wall. (gun fires) (dramatic music) (glass shatters) (dramatic music) (gun fires) (tense music) You gonna live? (officer groaning) I told you to turn your chest to the wall. If that would've hit you in the side, we would be scooping you in - That's pretty fucking descriptive. - Can you get up? - Yeah. - He priced right? - Yeah, right enough. - Well, you sure you wanna - It's been a while since we've done it. Rest of the world's forgetting we're here. Time to remind them. I thought I told you to over to Steiners. - No, no, no, I did. They didn't like him. He didn't buck hard enough for him. - Didn't buck hard enough? - Mm. - (laughs) He bucked hard enough for me. - Well, what do you wanna do? You wanna put him through a sale? - No, he'll end up in the slaughterhouse. Can't have him killed wanna be ridden. Hell, I don't wanna be ridden either. - All right, well, I'll figure it out. - That's it? - Hm? - Anything else you feel like discussing? If you are joining the family, can you please be the one person in it who fucking talks to me? - I love her, sir. And I'll always take care of her. - That's why I said yes. - You know why people 'Cause they're scared I know I am. - Well, if you're marrying Beth, you've already proved you're - (laughs) Yeah. - That horse needs a home. Just ain't mine. Go find him one. - Yes, sir. (mellow music) - Safe travels, brother. - See you around, Jake. - Yes, sir. It was my pleasure to meet you, just don't ever hit me like you hit her. - (laughs) Pleasure is mine. - See you around, Jimmy. - See you. - Now listen, when you get back to Texas, y'all start making fucking babies. Have yourself a hell of a life, okay? - You understand a word - Something about our taxes. - Come here. (Ryan laughs) - Actually, I'm gonna see you at Thanksgiving at your mom's house. (Colby laughs) - See you around, Walker. - You right about that chili. No beans in that shit. (Jimmy laughs) Big old howdy to them boys in Texas for me. - Yes, sir. Ma'am. - Come here, Jimmy. I want you to know you always - Yes, sir, I do. - Hey, proud of you. - Thank you. - Jimmy, cowboys don't say goodbye. They say see you later until We'll say our goodbyes then. Got a long drive. Come on, get outta here. Go. (somber music) (car revving) (somber music continues) (Mia sobs) - Aren't you a tall drink of water? - What are you doing? - What? - I'm married, darling. - Me too. (laughs) - Yeah. (laughs) - Where's your husband at then? - He's in Sacramento. (laughs) Where's your wife? - (chuckles) My wife is staring at you. - I'll handle this. - Don't do that now. - I'm gonna. (country music) Oh shit. Lloyd, hey Lloyd! We're done. - It ain't midnight yet. - It's midnight enough. (glass shatters) - Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. (crowd shouting) (punches thudding) - Get your fucking hands off me. (punch thuds) - Easy. - Back against that wall. - You know who that is, don't you? - I know exactly who that is. You need to stop worrying about her, start worrying about you. - Fucking bouncer put her All 110 pounds of her. What would you do if that - I hear you. But this ain't the old fucking days. The new sheriff, he doesn't - All right, all right. - Decided to come to town and - You put your hands on my - The fucking bouncers - I could charge every - You could. You could charge the whole - Yeah, okay. Okay. You and the rest can go, but she hit that girl in - Come on now. - That is aggravated assault. - Is she even gonna fucking press charges? - Bet your fucking ass - You know this is gonna right, Sheriff? - Problem of her own making. - It's your problem now. (somber music) - You have the right to remain silent. Anything you say may be used - Fucking kidding me. - You have the right to an attorney. If you cannot afford an attorney, one will be provided for you. Do you understand? - You pressing charges - I hope you die in there, you bitch! (somber music)