[music] -Good morning. Please welcome to the stage, Sam Altman. [music] [applause] -Good morning. Welcome to our first-ever OpenAI DevDay. We're thrilled that you're here [applause] -Welcome to San Francisco. San Francisco has been The city is important to us We're looking forward We've got some great stuff but first, I'd like to take a minute to talk over the past year. About a year ago, November 30th, as a &quot;low-key research preview&quot;, and that went pretty well. In March, we followed that up the most capable model out in the world. [applause] -In the last few months, we launched voice and vision capabilities hear, and speak. [applause] -There's a lot, [laughter] -More recently, we launched DALL-E 3, You can use it of course, For our enterprise customers, we launched ChatGPT Enterprise, and privacy, higher speed GPT-4 access, Today we've got about 2 million developers for a wide variety of use cases over 92% of Fortune 500 companies and we have about now on ChatGPT. [applause] -What's incredible through word of mouth. People just find it useful OpenAI is the most advanced in the world now, but numbers never tell the whole picture What's really important how people are using AI, and so I'd like to show you a quick video. -I actually wanted to write I want a non-romantic way to tell to tell him that he can rely on me, the respect that you should have in Filipino culture When it's translated into Tagalog, and I will be with you no matter -I see some of the possibility, &quot;Whoa.&quot; Sometimes I'm not sure about some stuff, hey, this is what I'm thinking about, -The first thing that just blew That's something It opened my mind to just what every creative could do who listens. -This is to represent sickling hemoglobin. -You built that with ChatGPT? -I started using it &quot;Hey, here's a picture of my fridge. Can you tell me what I'm missing? Because I'm going grocery shopping, that are following my vegan diet.&quot; -As soon as we got access &quot;Wow, this thing is awesome.&quot; It could build spreadsheets. It could do anything. -I discovered Chatty on my 100th birthday. Chatty is very friendly, very patient, very knowledgeable, and very quick. This has been a wonderful thing. -I'm a 4.0 student, When I started using ChatGPT, I realized I could ask Not only does it give me an answer, Didn't need tutoring as much. It gave me a life back. It gave me time for my family -I have a chronic nerve thing on my whole I had a brain surgery. I have limited use of my left hand. Now you can just have Then the newest one where you can have that's just maximum best interface for me. It's here. [music] [applause] -We love hearing the stories of how people It's really why we do all of this. Now, on to the new stuff, [audience cheers] -First, we're going to talk and then we'll talk Over the last year, we spent a lot of time talking We've heard a lot of your feedback. It's really informed Today, we are launching [applause] -GPT-4 Turbo will address that you all have asked for. Let's go through what's new. We've got six major things Number one, context length. A lot of people have tasks that require GPT-4 supported up to 8K and in some cases but we know that isn't enough GPT-4 Turbo, supports [applause] -That's 300 pages of a standard book, In addition to a longer context length, you'll notice that the model Number two, more control. We've heard loud and clear over the model's responses and outputs. We've addressed that in a number of ways. We have a new feature called JSON Mode, which ensures that the model This has been a huge developer request. It'll make calling APIs much easier. The model is also much better You can now call many functions at once, and it'll do better at following We're also introducing a new feature You can pass a seed parameter, consistent outputs. This, of course, over model behavior. This rolls out in beta today. [applause] -In the coming weeks, we'll roll out logprobs in the API. [applause] -All right. Number three, You want these models to be able to access so do we. We're launching retrieval in the platform. You can bring knowledge into whatever you're building. We're also updating the knowledge cutoff. We are just as annoyed as all of you, about the world ended in 2021. We will try to never let it get GPT-4 Turbo has knowledge and we will continue Number four, new modalities. Surprising no one, DALL-E 3, GPT-4 Turbo with vision, and the new text-to-speech model [applause] -We have a handful of customers to programmatically generate Today, Coke is launching generate Diwali cards using DALL-E 3, and of course, our safety systems their applications against misuse. Those tools are available in the API. GPT-4 Turbo can now accept can generate captions, For example, Be My Eyes uses this technology to help with their daily tasks like With our new text-to-speech model, you'll be able to generate from text in the API I'll play an example. -Did you know that Alexander Graham Bell, was enchanted by the world of sounds. His ingenious mind led which etches sounds onto wax, -This is much more natural Voice can make apps more natural It also unlocks a lot of use cases and voice assistance. Speaking of new modalities, we're also releasing the next version of our open-source Whisper V3 today, It features improved performance and we think Number five, customization. Fine-tuning has been working really well a few months ago. Starting today, we're going to expand that Also, starting today, we're inviting active fine-tuning users experimental access program. The fine-tuning API is great for adapting in a wide variety of applications but you may want a model to learn or to use a lot of proprietary data. Today we're launching With Custom Models, our researchers to help them make a great custom model, and their use case using our tools. This includes modifying doing additional a custom RL post-training process tailored We won't be able to do this It'll take a lot of work, at least initially, it won't be cheap, but if you're excited to push things Please get in touch with us, and we think we can do Number six, higher rate limits. We're doubling the tokens per minute for all of our established so it's easier to do more. You'll be able to request changes in your API account settings. In addition to these rate limits, it's important to do everything we can do on our platform. We're introducing copyright shield. Copyright shield means our customers and pay the costs incurred, or on copyright infringement, to ChatGPT Enterprise and the API. Let me be clear, people do not train on data All right. There's actually that's been even bigger than all of these and that's pricing. [laughter] -GPT-4 Turbo is the industry-leading model. It delivers a lot of improvements and it's a smarter model than GPT-4. We've heard from developers that there are but GPT-4 just costs too much. They've told us that if we could decrease A huge leap forward. I'm super excited to announce and GPT-4 Turbo, a better model, is considerably cheaper than GPT-4 [applause] -And 2x for completion tokens [applause] -The new pricing and 3C/ per 1,000 completion tokens. For most customers, that will lead to a blended rate more for GPT-4 Turbo than GPT-4. We worked super hard to make this happen. We hope you're as excited [applause] -We decided to prioritize price first but we're going to work on speed next. We know that speed is important too. Soon you will notice GPT-4 Turbo We're also decreasing Also, input tokens are 3x less Which means that GPT-3.5 than the previous GPT-3.5 4K model. Running is also cheaper Okay, so we just covered We hope that these changes We're really excited to bring to everybody now. In all of this, we're lucky to have a partner I'd like to bring out a special guest, [audience cheers] [music] -Good to see you. Thank you. -Satya, thanks so much for coming here. -It's fantastic to be here I'm really looking forward to Turbo It's been just fantastic partnering -Awesome. I won't take too much of your time. How is Microsoft thinking -First- [laughter] --we love you guys. -Look, it's been fantastic for us. In fact, I remember the first time and said, &quot;Hey, do you have We've come a long way from there. -Thank you for those. -You guys have built something magical. Quite frankly, there are two things for us The first is these workloads. Even when I was listening backstage even, it's just so different and new. I've been in this infrastructure business -No one has ever seen -The workload, these training jobs are so synchronous The first thing that we have been doing the system, all the way from thinking to the accelerators, to the network. Just really the shape of Azure and is changing rapidly that you're building. Our job, number one, so that you can build the best models and then make The other thing We're building products. In fact, my own conviction of foundation models completely changed on GPT. We want to build our GitHub Copilot We are very, very committed to that. What does that mean to developers? Look, I always think of Microsoft a developer company, For example, we want the Enterprise edition available so that they can try it out. That's awesome. [applause] -You can count on us to build with your API support and bring it to all of you. Even things like the Azure marketplace. For developers to get to market rapidly. That's really our intent here. -Great. How do you think about the future, or future of AI, or whatever? Anything you want -There are a couple of things for me very key for us. One is I just described as you aggressively push forward requires us to be on the top of our game ourselves deeply to making sure you all as builders have not only the best systems but the most compute, -We appreciate that. --forward on the frontiers we are going to make progress. The second thing I think quite frankly, the thing that excited your mission and our mission. Our mission is to empower every person to achieve more. To me, ultimately AI is only going to be useful if it truly does empower. I saw the video you played early. That was fantastic to hear those voices and what they were able to achieve. Ultimately, it's about being of AI broadly disseminated to everyone, I think is going Then the last thing is of course, in the fact that safety matters, and safety is not something but it's something we do shift left very focused on that with you all. -Great. Well, I think we have I'm excited for us to build AGI together. -Oh, I'm really excited. -Thank you very much for coming. -Thank you so much. -See you. [applause] -We have shared a lot of great updates a lot more to come, but even though this we can't resist making A small one, ChatGPT now uses GPT-4 Turbo including the latest knowledge cutoff, That's all live today. It can now browse the web analyze data, take and generate images, and much more. We heard your feedback, that is gone starting today. You will not have to click All of this will just work together. Yes. [applause] -ChatGPT will just know but that's not the main thing. Neither was price actually There was one I want to talk about where we're headed about today. We believe that if you give people better tools, We know that people want AI more customizable, Eventually, you'll just ask and it'll do all of these tasks for you. These capabilities are often talked The upsides of this At OpenAI, we really believe the best way to address the safety issues, We think it's especially important towards this future of agents. It's going to require and a lot of thoughtful consideration Today, we're taking our first small step We're thrilled to introduce GPTs. GPTs are tailored versions of ChatGPT You can build a GPT, a customized version of ChatGPT with instructions, expanded knowledge, and actions, and then you can publish it Because they combine instructions, they can be more helpful to you. They can work better in many contexts, They'll make it easier for you or just have more fun and you'll be able You can in effect program a GPT It's easy to customize the behavior This makes building them very accessible and it gives agency to everyone. We're going to show you what GPTs are, how to use them, how to build them, and then we're going to talk and discovered. After that for developers, these agent-like experiences First, let's look at a few examples. Our partners at Code.org are working hard They've got a curriculum that is used Code.org, crafted Lesson Planner GPT, a more engaging experience If a teacher asks it to explain it does just that. In this case, it'll do it repeatedly picking up coins. Super easy to understand As you can see, this GPT extensive curriculum and expertise, quickly and easily. Next, Canva has built a GPT that lets you start designing in natural language. If you say, &quot;Make a poster this evening,&quot; it'll generate a few options to start Now, this concept We've evolved our plugins You can keep chatting with this and when you see one you like, for the full design experience. Now we'd like to show you a GPT Live. Zapier has built a GPT across 6,000 applications to unlock I'd like to introduce Jessica, who is going to drive this demo. Welcome Jessica. [applause] Hello everyone. Thank you all. Thank you all for being here. My name is Jessica Shieh. I work with partners and customers Today I can't wait to show you so let's get started. To start where your GPT will live is I'm going to start with clicking and on the right-hand side you can see It's quite a day ever. I've already used this before, to my calendar. To start, I can ask, &quot;What's on my schedule for today?&quot; We build GPTs with security in mind. Before it performs it will ask for your permission. Right here, I'm going to say allowed. GPT is designed to take on which capability to call and then execute that for you. You can see right here, It pulls into my information conflicts on my calendar. You can see right here it actually It looks like I have something coming up. What if I want to let Sam know Right here I say, Chasing GPUs.&quot; With that, I'm going to swap and then I'm going Sam, did you get that? -I did. -Awesome. [applause] -This is only a glimpse of what what you all will build. Thank you. Back to you, Sam. [applause] -Thank you, Jessica. Those are three great examples. In addition to these, there are many more kinds of GPTs many more that will be created soon. We know that many people who want We've made it so that you can program We believe that natural language is going computers in the future and we think I'd like to show you how to build one. All right. that helps give founders when starting new projects. I'm going to go to create a GPT here, and this drops me into the GPT builder. I worked with founders for years at YC the questions I get are always about, Can you give me some advice?&quot; I'm going to see if I can build To start, GPT builder asks me and I'm going to say, through their business ideas and get advice. After the founder has gotten some advice, grill them on why they are not growing faster.&quot; [laughter] -All right. To start off, about what I want here. It's going to go off and it's going to write It's also going to, let's see, ask me about a name. How do I feel about Startup Mentor? That's fine. &quot;That's good.&quot; If I didn't like the name, of course, but it's going to try to have You can see here on the right, that it's already starting Where it says what it does, it has that I could ask. [chuckles] It just generated a candidate. Of course, I could regenerate that I'll say &quot;That's great.&quot; You see now that the GPT as we go. Now, what I want this to do, how it can interact with users, What I'm going to say is, &quot;I am going to upload about startups I have given, please give advice based off of those.&quot; All right. Now, it's going to go figure out I would like to show you You can see some of the things by the builder itself. You can see that there's capabilities here I could add custom actions. These are all fine to leave. I'm going to upload a file. Here is a lecture that I picked and I'm going to add that here. In terms of these questions, this is a dumb one. The rest of those are reasonable, I'm going to add one more thing which is be concise All right. Again, if we had more time, This is a decent start. Now, we can try it out I will say, what's a common question? &quot;What are three things to look at an early-stage startup?&quot; Now, it's going to look It'll also have of course That's pretty good. Those are three things Now, we could go the other instructions and grill me but in the interest of time, I'm going to skip that. I'm going to publish I can work on it later. I can add more content, that I think would be useful, and then I can share it publicly. That's what it looks like to create a GPT [applause] By the way, I always wanted to do that I always thought, to make a bot that will do this [laughter] -With GPTs, we're letting people that they use ChatGPT with the world. You can make private GPT like I just did, or you can share your creations or if you're on ChatGPT Enterprise, Later this month we're going Thank you. I appreciate that. [applause] -You can list a GPT there and the most popular GPT. Of course, we'll make sure that GPTs before they're accessible. Revenue sharing is important to us. We're going to pay people who build a portion of our revenue. We're excited to foster just from what we've been building We're confident there's going We're excited to share Those are GPTs and we can't wait to see This is a developer conference, is that we're bringing [applause] Many of you have already been building for example, Shopify's Sidekick, which lets you take Discord's Clyde, lets Discord moderators create a customized chatbot that can be added These experiences are great, but they have been hard to build. Sometimes taking months, there's a lot to handle to make Today, we're making that a lot easier [applause] -The Assistants API includes so they don't have to figure out with long conversation history, built-in retrieval, code interpreter, in a sandbox environment, and of course that we talked about earlier. We'd like to show you Here is Romain, Welcome, Romain. [music] -Thank you, Sam. Good morning. Wow. It's fantastic to see you all here. It's been so inspiring into your apps. Today, we're launching new modalities to improve the developer experience assistive agents. Let's dive right in. Imagine I'm building $1, travel app for global explorers, I've actually used GPT-4 to come up For those of you with a keen eye, are generated programmatically using to all of you today. It's pretty remarkable. Let's enhance this app by adding This is the screen. We're going to come First, I'm going to switch Creating an assistant is easy, some initial instructions, a model. In this case, I'll pick GPT-4 Turbo. Here I'll also go ahead I'll turn on Code Interpreter That's it. Our assistant is ready to go. Next, I can integrate of this Assistants API, threads and messages. Let's take a quick look at the code. The process here is very simple. For each new user, As these users engage I will add their messages to the threads. Very simple. Then I can simply run the assistant back to the app. We can return to the app If I say, &quot;Hey, let's go to Paris.&quot; All right. That's it. With just a few lines of code, a very specialized assistant I'd like to highlight function calling. If you have not used it yet, As Sam mentioned, It now guarantees the JSON output and you can invoke multiple functions Here, if I carry on and say, I'm going to have the assistant Here, what's interesting is including those to annotate Now, all of these pins Yes, it's pretty cool. [applause] -That integration allows to interact fluidly with components It truly showcases now and UI where the assistant Let's talk about retrieval. Retrieval is about giving beyond these immediate user messages. In fact, I got inspired I'm just going to drag While it's uploading, Very typical United Flight ticket. Behind the scene here, is reading these files, and boom, the information [applause] -This is, of course, a very tiny PDF, can parse long-form documents to intricate product specs In fact, I also booked an Airbnb, over to the conversation as well. By the way, we've heard that is to build yourself. You typically need to compute you need to set up chunking algorithm. Now all of that is taken care of. There's more than retrieval you usually need to resend which means setting up a key-value store, serializing messages, and so forth. That complexity now completely goes away Just because OpenAI is managing this API, In fact, you can see the steps right inside your developer dashboard. Here, if I go ahead and click on threads, this is the thread I believe these are all the steps, being called with the right parameters, Let's move on to a new capability for a while. Code Interpreter is now available today that gives the AI the ability but even generate files. Let's see that in action. If I say here, at this Airbnb, what's my share of it All right. Now, here, what's happening is that Code interpreter to answer this query. Now it's computing the number of days It's also doing the scene to get the sensor for us. Not the most complex math, Imagine you're building that's crunching countless numbers, so really any task then Code Interpreter All right. To recap here, we've just seen that manages state leverages external tools like knowledge and finally invokes your own functions but there's one more thing I wanted the possibilities using function that we're launching today. While working on DevDay, that knows everything about this event, but instead of having while running around all day today, I thought, why not use voice instead? Let's bring my phone up on screen Awesome. On the right, you can see microphone input. On the left, I'm actually going so you can see what's happening Let's give it a shot. Hey there, Can you greet our attendees -Hey everyone, welcome to DevDay. It's awesome to have you all here. Let's make it an incredible day. [applause] -Isn't that impressive? You have six unique and rich voices each speaking multiple languages, so you can really find On my laptop here on the left, you can see the logs behind the scenes, too. I'm using Whisper to convert an assistant the new TTS API to make it speak. Thanks to function calling, when the assistant can connect real actions for users. Let's do something How about this? Hey, Assistant, can you randomly select and give them $500 in OpenAI credits? [laughter] -Yes, checking the list of attendees. [laughter] -Done. I picked five DevDay attendees to their account. Congrats to Christine M, Jonathan C, Steven G, Luis K, and Suraj S. -All right, if you recognize yourself, Congrats. That's it. A quick overview today combined with some of the new tools all starting or voice conversation for you end users. We really can't wait and congrats to our lucky winners. Actually, you know what? you're all part so I'm just going to talk to my assistant one last time before I step off the stage. Hey Assistant, can you actually give in OpenAI credits? -Sounds great. Let me go through everyone. [applause] -All right, that function will keep running, but I've run out of time. Thank you so much, everyone. Have a great day. Back to you, Sam. -Pretty cool, huh? [audience cheers] -All right, so that Assistants API and we are super excited anybody can enable it. Over time, GPTs and Assistants are going to be able to do much much more. They'll gradually be able to plan and to perform more complex actions As I mentioned before, we really believe in the importance We believe it's important for people these agents now to get a feel as they become more capable. As we've always done, we'll continue to update our systems We're super excited that we got We introduced GPTs, custom versions of GPT knowledge and actions. We launched the Assistants API to make it easier to build These are your first steps their capabilities over time. We introduced a new GPT-4 Turbo model knowledge, lowered pricing, We're deepening In closing, I wanted to take a minute to thank OpenAI has got remarkable talent density, a huge amount of hard work I truly believe that I've got I feel incredibly grateful We do all of this because we believe a technological and societal revolution. It'll change the world in many ways and we're happy to get to work to build so much for all of us. We talked about earlier how they can change the world. We believe that AI will be at a scale that we've never seen before to a scale that we've never seen We'll be able to do more, to create more, and to have more. As intelligence we will all have superpowers on demand. We're excited to see what you all and to discover the new future to architect together. We hope that you'll come back next year. What we launched today is going to what we're busy creating for you know. Thank you for all that you do. Thank you for coming here today. [applause] [music]