There are two ways that your nervous system plays alerting, activating system, your autonomic off. And most of the people who get stuck in trapped in these cycles, and they just feel But the good news is that when you learn to [Music] According to polyvagal theory, there are three also known as ventral vagal or the which is also known as the sympathetic response the overwhelm or shutdown response, the known as dorsal vagal which, confusingly, is also but it's a more primitive state. So what does a that if you're healthy you're calm all the time, is adaptive and accurate. A person with a healthy feeling relaxed or safe, but when there's a real with a fight/flight/freeze response or even an and then restore their sense of safety quickly. emotions. You can feel calm, love, activation, You can get quite activated, even stressed, and it could return to calm pretty quickly. With sleep well. You're able to eat when you're hungry and repair and restore. If you're listening to like this is an impossible goal, I just want muscle. When you learn to use it in the right it can become healthy and strong. Your your develop, change, and adapt. So if you're stuck in learned that. And if if it learned that, it can how to do that. Our body has a really interesting of our brain called the insula, is constantly and it uses sensations to determine if the body's So when your body's in pain or if something's your brain that it's it's in danger. But when a message from your body to your brain to chill nervous system regulation. When we calm our body, system look like? So one form of an unhealthy or nervous system hyperarousal. It's when your It's stuck on all the time. And the unfortunate threats, so when we're anxious we actually get you might feel like you're on high alert all to threats, and that reaction might happen more means that you're less accurate. You're more than they are. You're you're more likely to take likely to feel scared or stressed or overwhelmed uh agitated or irritable. So when you're in the an upset stomach, or you might crave carbs. Um feel the need to keep moving or stay busy or to time concentrating, uh focusing, or remembering nervous system is stuck in the on position all relaxing, settling down, or playing, and you uh like you're always alert or always vigilant. So their alerting muscle is strong. Usually in this stuff done, but you might have a hard time having your nervous system isn't flexible. It's rigidly of trauma or chronic stress, but it can also be caused by worrying too much or just simply not like a muscle, right? This part of your nervous strong. But the part of your nervous system, the so it has a harder time kind of overriding that what you exercise you strengthen. So you can of nervous system regulation. Uh you you can multiple times an hour. Remind yourself that engage the parasympathetic response in your nervous system. And it might be through gaze or whatever your favorite grounding skill more about nervous system regulation in another an on state we have a hard time turning on third state of anxiety in the nervous system this is when your body um turns on like this you're overwhelmed. So when you've experienced a or too long or you've done it without support or your body might go into this protective this isn't your body body out to get you. You response. It's an attempt to conserve energy, hidden. And this can be really functional in the it's essentially a trauma response. Now, just to mode is, also could be a trauma response. But experience a huge tragedy or even simply if you're shutting down is that last survival response. Like stress uses up energy, resources, nutrients. time repairing and healing and resting, so your intense event or a chronic stress, nervous system You may feel sluggish, tired, frozen, numb. Um breathing, low energy, low motivation. I mean, right? You might have a hard time feeling pleasure so hypoarousal impairs creativity. People describe to impair memory and concentration, and it's shown difficulty initiating and completing tasks and of nervous system hypoarousal, does that sound to you? Like it's crazy to me that no one is condition. Chronic stress or severe stress or hypoarousal. If you're in this stuck off state, uh decreased sexual desire, a lack of interest in sometimes this does look like these quick bursts something done and - like panicky action - and you may be experiencing this uh nervous system You can retrain your nervous system. Um treatment And the first one is self-care to restore physical right? But to restore these physical resources body with like medical treatment and support get back to that state of safety is um activation. to move through the polyvagal ladder through you know, you got to create a sustainable way to face and solve problems so that they you. So whether that's, you know, getting your or setting boundaries with people, or learning to got to learn to restore and return to a sense of of times in this video and throughout this course. or at least my understanding of trauma, is your experience an extremely painful or dangerous or anything that overwhelms your ability to respond, to record those circumstances and create quick you're, on a clear day you're driving a you see a backpack on the side of the road and you have this dangerous experience, your smell of exhaust, and backpack with threat to learning system. So suddenly when you're at some exhaust or you might have a bright, clear and your nervous system kicks on that threat your nervous system may go into the sympathetic or anger or agitation, or it might kick all apparent reason. And so suddenly you're and you don't know why. And that's because that a learned like memory that it recorded of those nervous system. Let me give you another example. you know that when your mom comes home cranky from to lie low, to hide, or withdraw. And if this hide-and-shutdown response gets really ingrained, form of confrontation, but you don't even realize learning. So so this is one way to understand form of learning that your nervous system does these defense mechanisms don't really serve us stuck in these patterns of hyper or hypoarousal, health and our ability to enjoy life. So what can trauma or depression or burnout in our head or in our nervous system. So the first step is becoming that you don't actually know what anxiety is like trying to distract yourself from uncomfortable about it, or maybe you've just never been taught first step is becoming more aware of the state is interception. It's our ability to kind of scan section I want you to use the workbook to explore what the activated hyperarousal response feels And then in this whole section of the course regulate your nervous system, how to turn on with anxious sensations. So - and and just to more of the basics of how your nervous system response and the parasympathetic response and um you can learn those in my free course, and Trauma. So I'll link that below. So you really trauma in your nervous system, and you can learn can become healthier. You can overcome anxiety able to relax and feel more joy, be more playful, 20 from my online course Break the Anxiety Cycle course you can also check out that link in the [Music]