What's up, guys? Merideth with extremeterrain.com, we are at SEMA 2024. I'm gonna head inside Toyota stuff. All of the cool builds, you like and subscribe to our YouTube channel just like this, but that's enough for me. So, I think this is one of the most Toyota booth. This is a 2025 4Runner. Kind but you can see that they completely custom-built Jeep and the Bronco have some fun, but the this is the surf concept. It has a TRD bull but really, it's all about that removable top in that's completely custom, into that unlike the original four-door models. It's and some BFGoodrich chunky tires, but I can't get job with that light blue, not overpowering this Checking out this 2023 Toyota Tundra, you can aftermarket parts, FabFour-by-four front bumper, Rhino wheels. But in the back, because Toyota is setup, with 55-inch TVs. They're completely of your necessary sound system up on top. Very Checking out another Tundra, this is the TRD to it with the wheels, side steps, all of over to the back, Toyota has set up a fully with an ARB tent up on top, Go Rhino bed rack, and some accessories over on Still in the Toyota booth, but now and it's still got the same vibe of business of plain up front. This is an SR5 trim. You but if we move around back here, you can see that roof rack, bed rack, ARB cooler, that completely the side. It looks like it attaches to Now, this is what I'm talking about. This is the got big 35-inch BFGoodrich KM3s, all of the back, you can see that this has a sick ARB chase spare tire, as you would need for a prerunner, or bumper, and tow hooks that come with that Trail better. It's also got some dual-tip exhaust Another Tundra in the Toyota booth, based off it's pretty plain up front. Got some TRD drop side step bars, some black decaling, but a full canopy system, that goes all the way carry all your stuff. You've got a pullout enjoying the party as well. Little grill and a This is a 2025 4Runner in the TRD Pro edition. this is the one to look at. Now, it's got on the front bumper here, the Heritage a touch of gloss black up on top for this the camo TRD Pro interior. I think that this the 4Runner. Got all that room in the back, the and you've got some roof rack rails up on top, This is the 2025 4Runner in the Trailhunter we're familiar with already from the Trailhunter, the Heritage grille. I really love this when it comes to the wheels. It also has the the bottom. But since it's a 4Runner, we've got up on top, and a whole ton of space out back. This is probably one of the coolest Tacomas and it's completely outfitted in carbon fiber, top. It also has a fully built-out Baja lighting got some ditch lights, and up on top, on a camping system up top, CBI rock rails, and This Tundra is tucked in the corner, but got a full front bumper, a wraparound bumper front. The Toyota Heritage grille, with that but also some Icon wheels, some sick rigid so this thing is super tall. Also have over on the side, and outfitted with a also really like the camo fender flares. But Got some Rotopax on the side, and this tire I'm over at the Westin booth, and this Tacoma, 35-inch tires, a full King suspension system so it is about 3 inches wider than the average, a cool front bumper, that you can reach into Baja lighting, ditch lights up top, a full this little knob here, this is completely open, some storage on the inside, some gas struts, Over at the Winbo booth, checking out another the front end. It's very clean, with a wraparound behind that front bumper, with some little guards on the back is probably the best part. The bed but it's also got a retractable tonneau cover, so In the ARB booth, checking out another it's got a full wraparound front bumper, with fully set up. This one has a full bed is actually this. It's a camping...or a tent, full suspension showcase there. Some really cool bronze also has the full slide-out kitchen. This At the Vanguard booth, checking out their with this front bumper. It's got kind of a hybrid the plated inner portion, WARN winch, and also up on top. Got some oversized fenders, some chunky You also have some pretty plain steps, but the rack, and a retractable bed cover, with a little I'm over at the Icon booth, and thick. This has just a standard front AlphaRex headlights. Those look really but this long-travel suspension is really it's completely decked out in Icon suspension. with a 37, in a Nitto Ridge Grappler. And on the to the T. This is awesome. I'm lost for words. and you've got some extra goodies in the you could possibly need for your prerunner Came across this sick 2024 Land Cruiser setup. a bull bar, some D-rings. It's got a pretty on this rock here. Some rock sliders, but, with this full kitchen setup. It also has a accessories mounted up. A little table, If you come around back, you can really Checking out this 4Runner in the Attica It's got a big lift on it, 37-inch tires, full bit of cutting here, but hey, it works. It looks the bumper, as well as up on top. Fully built and this little storage compartment over on the neat. Got some tail lights and a full-width In the Attica booth still, third-gen. Gotta give it a little bit of love and a lot of lighting to it. These are the Attica that kinda tapers off here, which is pretty I'm sure, a winch back there, and this super to the brim. Also have some compartments over on is completely outfitted for whatever you need. the back, so you've got this little window here, to do that? That is super cool. So, that system Over at the Thule booth, checking out has a pretty cool front bumper system, as It's got a winch integrated into it, with Baja Designs lighting. These are super big, Also has some Baja ditch lighting, and a and the matte black flows really well into the where you can store all of your things that you on a bronze Black Rhino wheel. This is on King here. This has a fully built tent system, on a bed everything that you need, and a hitch-mounted Over at the DeeZee booth, checking out this which I like to see. They are Method. It's got once again, is really the highlight of this can open it up, as you can see, but if you have it will move, so you can still access the bed has some cool lighting mounted on it, and on the see that in there. Has a full storage system, Over at the Katzkin booth, looking at this 2024 but I think it flows very well together. It and a super chunky tire on there. It does also but the real eye catcher here is their upholstery You take the cloth off of the seat cover, and then your Tacoma, if yours are already in bad So, that is a wrap on SEMA 2024. Make sure content, just like this, and comment down below, you are most excited about in this video. And