The world's new era of warfare started here: building in Minsk, Belarus. A small antivirus developer based within these request. Their client in Iran was experiencing random, computers. It was probably a bug, they thought--a misconfiguration playing nice with each other. So, they reinstalled Windows. But the issue remained. This upped the stakes. This wasn't some mistake in Window's programing. This was something purposefully malicious. Soon, Sergey Ulasen, the company's researcher, machine. As he combed through their code, he made a of information security to its core. This code, when placed on a USB drive and and execute a program simply by being viewed. This was a brand new exploit--a catastrophically All it took was one drive, simply plugged This method of spread was mortifyingly efficient--it Recognizing that, the intuitive question was The answer was chilling: 58%--58% of devices code. 58% of the country's computers were within that they had identified an exploit of existential And what made this ominous envelopment all knew what this code was intended to do. Nobody knew why a high-skilled hacker had computers. But what became clear far quicker is that for the virus itself. It gained prominence because this small Belarusian world had entered a new era. The world had entered the era of highly-advanced, This new era was made possible--and perhaps single concept: the zero-day. You see, in decades past, national intelligence focused on gathering information in transit. Rather than sneaking into the embassy, you a bug in the phone, you tapped the transmission It was simply easier to capture information As the digital age awoke, this MO continued, Apple, Microsoft, Google, and others all started Shielding information behind complex mathematical all practical purposes, perfect. Therefore, the strategies behind digital espionage to get in. While the math behind encryption may be infallible, The devices on which data is created and stored--phones, by people. Therefore, the devices have holes. These holes are referred to as zero-days. Any software has vulnerabilities. Most will be caught before release; some will with a patch; but a tiny minority will go In the early 2000s, hobbyist hackers spent for these bugs. Faced with hostility and legal threats when software's developers, many would post about little else than bragging rights. Early information security companies would in a digital threat alert service for companies might have holes not yet fixed by the developer. One such company, iDefense, found itself faltering at the same time, to the same customer base--they So they created one. They decided to start paying for exploits--hackers for their silence, iDefense would pay anywhere dollars. iDefense would then alert the software's competing information security companies could. With the information staying among more trusted a vulnerability being used for nefarious reasons. iDefense had created an ethical, profitable to monetize their hobby, and so it was no In mere months, the company went from weeks But then the calls started coming. And the area codes were local. The Chantilly, Virginia based company was contractors wanted to buy their exploits. For the zero-days that iDefense had paid three to pay six--as long as the company stayed one with knowledge of the zero-day. iDefense said no, but they soon found themselves Whereas their payouts might fund a vacation, simply couldn't compete. On the other side of the equation, the American potential rising out of a single software Unperturbed by borders, rules of engagement, to silently achieve America's strategic about these zero-days. In the years since, the market has propagated While a thriving black and gray market still with concerning human rights records--Western upon which they build their cyberweapons from doing. In the most extreme example, zero-day broker For an exploit capable of running a piece interaction--remote code execution, as it's $10,000 on router software. For the same capability, they'll pay up for Windows. Zerodium is even offering a temporary higher zero-day on Microsoft Outlook--possibly indicating very exploit for a cyberweapon under development. Remote code execution exploits are the holy Properly used, they can allow virtually unfettered Of course, zero-days become worthless essentially software developers will quickly patch the Therefore, the fact that this malicious code, code execution exploit that could have sold that it was designed to do something equally However, it soon became clear that the .lnk Layered on top of it was another remote code Stuxnet was designed to embed itself into on a local network, however, with this zero-day, on that local network--silently and quickly office, university, factory, or other facility. Then, to complete the spread, the code used for different versions of the operating system--allowing to gain access to an entire machine. Four zero-days--four exploits each worth in the most literal sense, an unprecedented Never before had a piece of code so expertly Whoever was behind this had exhausted enormous of code, but even as it was being combed through security industry ablaze, even as it propagated the single most important question remained This is the Natanz nuclear facility, and while information security knew it, by the middle for the implementation of the most advanced Hours away from Tehran by car, sitting on in the shadow of Karkas mountains, this uranium isolated. Its geographic isolation, however, pales in Natanz, in response to an earlier, more rudimentary internet, as Iran had air-gapped the facility centrifuges from outside mettling. For the outside to mettle then, a worm had At some point in 2009, an unknowing employee USB stick into a PC running Microsoft Windows. Getting the malware past the air gap, however, First, using the .lnk zero-day, the worm jumped Then, using the printer zero-day vulnerability, local network, and spread across the entire Undetected, and inside the Natanz network, its search for a very particular target as Conceptually, cyber weapons are rather straightforward. Like most of their physical counterparts, the carrier, and the payload. In other words, no matter the level of complexity, gains it access into a computer or network, once it's inside. At this stage, the carrier had so far succeeded: on here, throughout the administrative and the enrichment process' surrounding infrastructure. The code's payload, and by extension, the in crashing the plant's communication networks Instead they worked toward something more What the code wanted access to was buried were using centrifugal force to tear away Running these centrifuges, though, weren't control equipment that provided yet another Finally, using stolen security certificates Siemens's software--a German manufacturer each--the carrier had reached its target, Among the many genius, and frightening potentials aspect lies not in what it did, but what it For days after gaining access to the PLCs core of the nation's nuclear program, the RPMs. Then, after nearly two weeks, the code would hertz--well beyond their normal operating Weeks after that, the code would momentarily wear and tear, and thus failure. All the while, as the machines self-destructed reported to monitors that the centrifuges nothing here to see. Essentially, had it not managed to unintentionally continued to cripple Iran's nuclear ambitions before detection. Therefore, prior to June of 2010, the piece destructive--a cyberweapon experts couldn't upon hundreds of strategically invaluable It's been more than a decade since Stuxnet Still, no one has officially claimed responsibility The code's scale, though--its sheer size this couldn't be the work of one person. While the world's most powerful hackers Stuxnet employed a staggering four. Nor could this be the work of a group of hacktivists, At a megabyte, Stuxnet was orders of magnitude it. And it wasn't just massive, either; it was across the globe and only weaponizing its Step 7 software linked to a PLC running exactly Such size signaled that this was a weapon precision signaled the code was crafted with In short, just in the worm's design, experts crafted by a major world power, or multiple, an unprecedented undertaking, and it had to so friendly with Iran. Information in the actual code and geopolitical was behind this, though. Cybersecurity experts have conducted countless of leaked documents since the worm appeared. What they found was that the development of existed somewhere between doing nothing to airstrikes to destroy the enrichment facilities. As an alternative was how the weapon was first officials, then eventually to President Obama--all What the journalists revealed was that the new era of state-led cyber offensives that Before this point, nation-states--the US 8200--used cyber divisions to defend and Now they were going on the offensive. By crossing the Rubicon, though, and getting opened Pandora's box. Though Iran denied involvement, in 2013, major American intelligence identified it as retaliation the rival's cyber capabilities were expanding. Holding up American banks in 2013, however, Since the US unleashed Stuxnet, other gap--many of which the US has, at best, a North Korea, largely through its state-backed able to infiltrate Sony Pictures in 2014, forced the UK's National Health Service Every year, China's cyberwarfare division zero-days identified at the Tianfu Cup--where and Apple software. In 2017, Russian cyberattacks brought Ukrainian to their knees. In 2021, ransomware software locked up the Increasing the speed at which the rest of that American weapons are spreading. The United States has long been considered but a 2017 leak by a hacker group known as NSA's hacking tools for the entire world Today, experts have reached a concerning consensus: exists more acutely now than at any point and future conflicts. Traditional weapons have consequences for If Russia were to deploy a nuclear weapon, a swift response by the target nation. Cyberweapons are different. It took years for major media organizations as the forces behind Stuxnet--and much of by American and Israeli government officials When the stakes get raised, so will the secrecy. Cyberwarfare has the potential for destruction In this new battlefield, there are no rules are simply cutting-edge aggressors and vulnerable they've left open. Experts believe that today represents a waiting The weapons exist, they've been developed, embedded in the world's machines, laying their destructive potential. But by and large, that time has not yet come. Faced with the reality that each individual are patched, the nation-states and organizations unleash a truly devastating attack on a major up to the truly existential nature of this But that time is coming--the big one's Wars will no longer be fought in far-off lands the TV. They will be fought in the technology that life. The US and Iran have had an incredibly tense century, and the context of what led to Iran's the US' development and deployment of Stuxnet, If you want to learn about that other side watch Real Life Lore's Modern Conflict's exclusive to Nebula since YouTube content This is just one of a huge number of exclusive If you're the type of person that endlessly to find something you want to watch, then by the creators you already watch and love. After the Modern Conflicts episode, you could and conflict brewing in the American West then watch Half as Interesting's travel-based trying to break weird laws along the way; produced series on the Battle of Britain; game show, Money, featuring a much younger already a week's worth of content, so you Amazingly, the cheapest way to get access streaming site too: Curiosity Stream. There, you can watch a huge catalog of nonfiction of the Cruise: a captivating, quirky documentary on cruise ships, seeking attention while telling CuriosityStream and Nebula have a bundle deal, CuriosityStream.com/Wendover, you'll get And the price is unbelievably low--just $14.79 That's less than the monthly price of other you'll be supporting loads of independent button on-screen or head to CuriosityStream.com/Wendover