The Geo History YouTube channel made a video disappointed by it. Although the guy behind it he does repeat a lot of pro-Palestinian ways almost everything he says is kind of true. But I thought this provided a good form of a historical video covering the day. I am sure it will give you plenty In France, Alfred Dreyfus, a Jewish captain, is to the Germans. The affair gains prominence as Dreyfus is publicly stripped of his rank in Paris. Among the crowd is Theodor Herzl, Geo History starts the section on the birth of the and antisemitism in France. I would start with movement of the Jews and one of its main goals was to mention that, as the end of the 19th century as well as the fall of empires. In other words, land of their own. Herzl, the father of the idea of Zionism because of antisemitism in France; Vienna. He grew up in Hungary, but when studying Austro-Hungarian Empire, Herzl was met with a lot what led him to found Zionism. He said that if empire were this antisemitic, then antisemitism of uneducated farmers, but rather antisemitism was ideologies. It might sound like just a detail, but detail, as you know - it was not the antisemitism it was the realization that antisemitism was not and so the Jews needed a solution in a form The following year, the latter publishes into a single people, who are not assimilable, and who, to escape persecution, must establish In Palestine or Argentina... Herzl but that was only for a short period of time, and Russia. Millions of Jews were running away from what can we do now to solve this problem? I that Herzl is the father of modern Zionism, but Jews always saw the Land of Israel as their means going up to the Land of Israel). In followers of Rabbi Hagaon from Vilna did the same of the Baal Shem Tov. Jews from all over the world only added the structure of a state as the idea Although in the minority, the 80,000 Jews They create a union for Jewish workers, set So the Jews just organized a self-defense Geo History is starting to ignore the actions do that until the end of the video. Why did the Hebrew.) Because in 1920 there were violent Arabs attacked Jews, dozens of Jews were murdered, stole Jewish property. In English, it is called there was another round of pogroms, the deadliest murdered - most of them in Hebron and Jerusalem. I Jews had lived in the Land of Israel for hundreds So many years before the occupation and before the the Arabs were murdering Jews in the most brutal but if you don't believe me, google the 1929 Geo History tells us that Jews migrated to the on that. What he fails to mention is that there of Israel. The British limited the number of Jews was not limited. The numbers are disputed but are people in Gaza today originally came from Egypt at during the time of the British Mandate. The last that they came from Egypt. And it is not Those half a million Arabs came during the period of the 25 years of British administration, and were an addition to the Arab population, getting employment under the conditions we created. Why did so many Arabs migrate to the area answer. For the same reasons you see massive and the Jews, had developed the land. There swamps and successfully beat malaria. Many Arab life. Geo History, like so many others, fails Fearing an invasion of Palestine, an elite unit trained for war. Egypt. Around 1943, information about the genocide David Ben-Gurion, the president of to allow the immigration of So during World War Two, the Jews formed the Jewish immigration. That much is true. But what Geo History tells us nothing about that. So Arabs of Palestine, Amin al-Husseini, planning with Hitler and other high-ranking Land of Israel and in the Arab countries. He Nazi propaganda in Arabic for the Arab world, the pogroms of Arabs against the Jews of trip lasting a few days to do fundraising for the years-long connection of the leaders Faced with British intransigence, a new armed terrorist group Jewish state between the Nile and the Euphrates, organizes a campaign of sabotage The UN Partition Plan for Palestine the Irgun commits a very deadly attack So we are 14 minutes into the video and is mentioned. And who are the terrorists? The 1929, 1936-9, they were not terrorists, mostly British forces - they were terrorists... Hotel is mentioned. Geo History has a pattern. a name is never given to the attack, it is are the attackers, then they are terrorists and King David Hotel bombing: first, at that time, so it was a military target, and as we say in Hebrew) warned the British that the British commander said that he wouldn't Arabs ever warned the Jews before they attacked? Brits were killed by Arabs during Now let's see what Geo History has But on the other side, the entire Arab of a Jewish state. violence quickly escalates between Jews Violence quickly escalates... no no no. If make sure that they get it right. The UN proposed it. The Jews were promised the whole mandate and However the Jews were still willing to compromise, and started a war by attacking the Jews. You don't and Poland and a war started, right? There is no plan and started a war and the first thing they will carry on repeating this in every video if I For Ben-Gurion, there is urgency, and establishing territorial continuity. the line should be an internal threat or Therefore, they must be destroyed, or their There is still debate today as to or whether it has a purpose of ethnic cleansing. Of course - Plan Dalet. So Geo History doesn't from Arab leaders to eliminate the Jews. Here By the way, not once has a Jewish leader stood in front of Arab they find. The closest thing pro-Palestinians make sure that the roads that Arab villagers kept the kind of thing you do when fighting a war. you make sure they don't, you do what you The Irgun and Lehi then commit a massacre among the Arab population, pushing many to flee. And Deir Yassin, of course. I have made a video pattern that you will find in all pro-Palestinian repeat the same points over and over: Irgun, as the country continues to import arms, notably heavy weaponry from I don't know why, but this is the third Jews were importing weapons. I know that kind of like the image of the strong smart if necessary. Getting hold of weapons is a At the end of the ceasefire, over cities between Tel Aviv and Jerusalem, And as expected - expelling. Did the said it before and I will say it again. In the in the Balkans, in Asia, tens of millions of started a war to eliminate the Jews and they But here is an interesting fact Geo History expelled and stayed on in Israel? 160,000. Arab territories? Zero. Not a single Jew was conquered by Egypt and Jordan. Again, it is Approximately 700,000 Arabs were displaced or fled The country opens up to Jewish where ancient Jewish communities are Israel's population doubles In all Arab countries Jews were suffering pogroms, of Palestine ,who started a war and lost, their Muslim neighbors but still had to endure they had to leave all their property behind, Israel must return the Sinai to Egypt, but gains a significant alliance So the bad Israelis buy weapons from France. Not deal that was signed a year earlier. Arab-Israeli conflict, as the Soviets a connection that continues to this day. This is Geo History mentions it. But when In 1964, the Arab League unites to form the Palestine It begins an armed struggle against This is where Geo History finally gets the Palestine Liberation Organization was War and before the occupation and before they mean the destruction of Israel. Yasser Arafat, the new strongman of the PLO, takes refuge in Jordan, where he He gains power, and even attempts to overthrow The latter then attacks the Palestinians in the where he continues the armed including terrorist attacks worldwide. a Palestinian commando team takes the Israeli Two interesting things to mention. The first one leader, who was born in Egypt.. and his and then they tried to do the same in Lebanon. You I think it's interesting that no one talks about the Arab pearl of the Middle East, was caused and Lebanon have almost no territorial disputes. but because of this Arab-Muslim hate towards and by Hezbollah, Lebanon is going downhill fast. a specific terror attack against Israel. The On October 6, 1973, Egypt and Syria with the goal of recovering the Sinai Israel is at a disadvantage, but within notably with the support of the United The Egyptians and the Syrians never said they said that they wanted to eliminate tell me what is behind your obsession with word about all the Soviet weapons that the With the southern border secured, where political instability benefited the PLO, This is one of the meanest sentences that Geo the one that wanted to fight. Let's unpack some of from southern Lebanon: the Maalot Masacare, children aged 14 to 16, or the Avivim school bus age were murdered. Or the Coastal Road massacre, whom were children, or the Savoy Hotel attack, the Palestinians hijacked airplanes and shot Yasser Arafat softens his policy. State of Palestine, recognizes Israel, and Within a year, 87 countries meetings then take place, and culminate in 1993 between Yasser Arafat and Yitzhak So, the Israelis were always willing to says that we, the Israelis, want peace. This is does mention the one time that Yasser Arafat to mention that Arafat said that the Oslo which was a temporary peace treaty that the Meaning that Arafat saw the Oslo agreements as a strong enough to conquer Israel. I guess you of selective memory or maybe I should call it I meant at the beginning when I said that Today, more than ever, the Israeli-Palestinian I can agree with that. However, Geo History and the refugees and the settlements - and all If the reality was that until 1948 it had all but as already stated in this video, the Arabs in the 1920s and 30s. If the reality was that but after the settlements in the West Bank, would agree, but they were already using violence resolution not because of refugees or occupation, the Arabs are not willing to accept was true in the 1920s and it was true Over the last few months, I have made videos about One of the videos I am working on is about the about much and which deserves a video of its own. my work. I want to thank all my supporters. You who need to see it. See you next week,