I just drop this two strangers These two guys have Nice to meet you, man. Every day that the two of you I'll give you $10,000. I hope you brought enough money, Hey, put that camera down. Let's head out. Take care boys. He's going to be poor - I'm Hase. - Nice to meet you, man. All right. You're gonna be my best Starting now. These guys receive $10,000 everyday with the only limit Which theoretically means Dude, if we stay here, We are trying to find a camping spot, I guess we should just set up camp here. For the rest of the night, they gathered wood We've got approximately five days Two things of water. Looks like a change of clothes. some warm jackets and boom, a fire starter. Let's see if we can get a fire going. - Oh, yeah! Let's make beds out of pine needles. It won't be comfortable, but at least We're alive. Day two. In the morning, I showed up Boys, how was the first night? It was cold. It's been 24 hours and I didn't walk over with ten grand. You're not gonna ask? - Yeah, I guess we should, right? Okay. Just look up. Oh my... Here we go! Every 24 hours, we're to drop - There's $10,000! Catch it! Go catch it! Go- watch out! - Bro, this is crazy. Bro, we're going to be so rich And on top of that money, This is your flare gun. Very careful. Shoot it up in the air. The challenge ends for both of you and you walk away So, how long should we stay out here? 3.6 million for the year is crazy. Alright, the plan's officially a year. We're going to split this in two. - Yes. Now, we can't screw each other over. But later in this video, that plan doesn't exactly work. Alright, I feel bad, but I I just got to shoot this thing, If you fire that flare, I literally Well buddy, you ready to get rich? Absolutely. By day three you could say the boys were So after another 10 grand, they started Going to use my jacket and layer them on the shelter. Alright, I found this metal piece and I think it's going to work great Layer one on. Here's You see, it's We get to use the parachutes So we're going to make a rain cover Everyone thinks probably, that I'll be the reason we but this money would And then on day four they started looking Oh, there's a swamp. I would feel safe boiling that. Yeah, we gotta be is full of bacteria Just a touch of the swamp. Alright, We're going to bed. Hopefully Grizz snuggles up and he's big and warm. This is like the third day in a row It's been so cold. If it rained right now, But I do it for $10,000. And it wasn't just the freezing We're at the end of our supplies. Grizz likes to call it a fast, which sounds so much nicer And for the next few days, We had a little square of Jimmy gave us five days worth These are Greenbrier leaves. Grizz says they're edible, I guess. Yeah. It was clear by this point That the boys But lucky for them, I had a surprise They've officially survived - Yeah, brother! Bring in the helicopter. Oh, man. I'm nervous dude. Oh my gosh. To celebrate Day 10, brought you guys an additional two tarps and everything All of this for $50,000 -You want some beef jerky? Don't eat it yet. These beans look good? - Absolutely. He's not kidding. This is literally all the - 50 grand. - Should we talk to them now? - All right. All right, Jimmy. I'll throw in two Feastable bars. Yes. Let's do it. - Thank you. Thanks, Jimmy. It's definitely a deal That week of food literally cost - Hello! Bro, I still can't believe it every time The food from the crate But if they want to make it a year... Alright, the plan is officially a year. They'll still need to find So some of you might be wondering, Why have they not caught fish? Well, the swamp nearby has no fish in it. What we really need is And while Hase was And my two-year-old This happened. I think being a dad- What is this? This is a creek. This is actually moving water. There's fish in here. It's like a dock. This is the perfect place And after another few days full Rain. At least now we have They decided to move and upgrade their shelter Good morning, Grizz. How are you always up earlier than me? We're that we can do for our structure. And then we balanced them together and cut the trees to the right length. I'm sorry. No, it's all right. Sorry. All right, but once they got the structure back up, putting their finishing They even built a fishing dock - Docks done. And now all we got to do - Come on. Right? And as good as was this may be without sleeping bags, the winter Another really cold night. Cold toes, cold feet. No sleeping bag. So I think I knew what my next offer was. It's Day 20 and they moved so now we have to get there by boat. - You hear that sound in the distance? Is that a boat? Any minute now, when we find them, I've got a fun offer for them. How's it going, boys? - Hey, Jimmy! Two things. First, so I'm delivering this by hand. - Hey, all right. which puts you guys at $140,000. And second, we have an offer for you. Reveal your offer. Just go ahead. You can either give me $10,000 or give me $50,000 - What? Oh, man. - Can I take it out? Yeah. Check them out. Hang on. I just got to do this. These are the same sleeping They work very well. It's going to get pretty cold so I highly recommend When we started this thing out, We've adapted to it. We have bedding, we have pine straw. We're doing pretty well I would love to have a sleeping bag. But $50,000 is... I sleep closer to Grizz I'm not even kidding. You're actually going to say no A really cold night. No sleeping bag. Yeah, so I think- I think it's final. We don't want it. - Yeah. Agreed. All right, boys, close it up. Sure the boys could survive but that didn't solve their food problem. In between sitting out rainy days, where they would boil water, and try to catch fish, We've got some guts for bait and we're going to cast them out, come off the bottom of the creek. Day after day of failing Let's go check the lines. They finally caught a wind Grizz! Or whatever that What is that? Can I eat it? First fish. It's an eel and I think I'm gonna We're going to have ourselves This is the first thing that which is insane. We're happy to have it, and I don't know but the fact that they haven't means even a rock would It's excellent. It's so good. It's really. If we keep catching fish like this Dude, yeah. 3.6 million dollars. Good night. And on Day 28, they started constructing the raised So it's going to be two tripods. One, two. Side rails going down. Slats across, and then a nice pine needle And after seeing their new shelter I was starting to get worry these guys millions of dollars. The only regret that I have, that's honestly an L. They were betting everything on their new shelter But that may have been because they couldn't catch another Snapped it. At this point I've spent more time than I have with my newborn son. I also have a two year old How do you explain to a two year old that daddy's going to be gone he won't call you Say they were making us an offer, What would be something We spend a lot of time out here You know, having firewood I'd probably pay $10,000 for that. We are literally I couldn't tell you where we are How's it going, boys? - Doing great, man. How are you? As a reward for surviving an Oh, okay. We combed through and we wrote down everything you've a shovel, cooking supplies, bedding, It's like a dollar store, Oh, man. This is your store. Feel free to shop. We've won 240 grand. - What are these? Those are mosquito nets. We'll use parachutes. We don't need those. All right, what about the hammocks? I like the hammocks, but, you know, we haven't tried All right, Grizz, answer this. What do you can you not make out A lot. Okay, well, - How much wood? If it came with unlimited wood, I offer them literally everything and they still weren't interested. I was beginning to think these two were secretly Are you guys going to buy You make ten grand a day. What's another ten grand? - I got to say no. In a million years, would not have thought Next time I'm - We're looking forward to. - There he goes. Stop right here. Nolan, what does this look like? A lot of phones. A thousand phones to be exact. Because over the next seven days, a thousand random people a free Samsung Galaxy S24. I literally spent over and I'm giving them away to you. All you have to do to enter to win It's literally free. I just want you to know you guys have been doing It means the world to me. Subscribe. Win one of these phones. Let's go. And so they continued without But go figure, they weren't able to catch any fish. And even though they were running out of food I am on the last belt loop. I think that we have maybe two days That's not good. Without a boat, this creek is not productive. We got to go to that river. If I can get to that river that'll turn all this around. With their rations their only hope of through the swamp on the other side in hopes It's risky wasting all these If we're going to make it any further. But after a grueling hike, Hase finally found what he was Oh my gosh. Oh, look at that. It's the river. Is that not the most gorgeous thing Finding this river is probably making our goal Fortunately, he had a secret weapon. Grizz This thing is going With Hase's makeshift fishing he was going to have to use and failing. Oh, no. And If he couldn't catch any fish the calories burned coming here But just when he was ready to give up... This is going to be it. Yeah. Holy moly. Yes, I told you it was that one! And the luck didn't stop there. I cannot wait to bring this back He's going to be so stoked. We're eating tonight! Hey! All right, that's awesome. Feels like But in the meantime, that I know they couldn't refuse. It's day 40. They've made over a third of $1 And I have an incredibly special for them. For $10,000, and I think that you're really going You both can see your wives. In fact, they're watching right now. - Do it! Do it! Oh, man. - I can't let down my kid. Okay, Jimmy. Yes! Yeah! Oh, yeah. - Yes! It's me, it's daddy. - Oh, my God. Hi, Talia. As nice as it was to see the visit was also bittersweet because there's one big question How long do you want us to stay? I want you home now. Like, I do. I know you want me home. But do you need me home? Yes, she needs you. Yes. You need to bond with your son. I don't care what the other guy You've made enough money. I need you home. That conversation was so difficult Even so, It had all of the things It had my family, my wife, That was like a really huge gift. But they're gone now. To hold her and know that she was safe. It really has changed the way that Knowing I have my wife's support. I want to stay And after some much needed family time, Hase and Grizz were much Hase and Grizz, Grizz, Grizz. - Hase and Grizz, Grizz, Grizz. Ambush! Let's smoke some fish. Look at that. This is perfect. Even when something happened that would've totally drained $400,000. By now, they didn't even seem to mind. It looks like someone had a gender And the gender was just money. Even though their spirits were high, they needed to solve. In order to get to the river to fish, they would first need to trudge But if they had a boat, they'd easily be able to float down I'm building a boat. The idea is to create a frame and then attach our tarp I'm not feeling super confident If we can get down to fish without having to tromp it's worth the risk. Time for the first sea - Here he goes. And this was pretty ironic considering the offer It's day 50. Let's see how they're doing. - Hey. Oh, you guys have a village now. Wait, are you serious? You built a boat? Yeah, man. You're telling me this - You want to try it? Oh, my gosh, it actually works. He built a freaking boat All right, this changes a lot of things. you two built a boat yesterday because I brought the two of you Oh my gosh. That is so cool, Jimmy. Before I present the offer, in a really good state of mind. This is our brand new MrBeast box which are now live at Oh, my God, The MrBeast box comes with the And the cool part is, every single Our goal with this collab and pair it Indeed! Zaxby's also has 12 sauces. There's like so many flavors - That's really good. Look how happy they are. If you want to be happy like them, just go to Zaxby's Now that you guys have gotten your meals, your day 50 offer is for 50 grand you can have this boat. We don't have a motor. We don't have So you just use sticks. Oh, Lord, I don't know. Since you weirdly built the boat I'll give you a discount. My answer is I love the ship I made. I trust it with my life. So I'm going to leave it up to Grizz. For $40,000, - I'm going to pass on the boat. I'll get in Hase's death If that sinks We appreciate the food. That was lovely. - Bye, Jimmy. So this ship saved us $40,000. - It's still a death trap. Man, when we first started this - You remember how cold it was? Now everything is so nice and warm. And spring was now in full bloom. And they were looking There's a lot of flowers here. - I can't say that I mind it. I don't know. I lost track. - I hear an airplane coming in. Oh, he's coming straight at us. This briefcase puts us at $440,000. Time to build the Hase and Grizz loveseat. 80% of what we're sitting on here This case? I don't want Katie This money is going to do But while the warmer weather was nice, it presented new problems like snakes.... Don't want to get bit by that. And rats. - Get out of here! Oh my God. And It wasn't long until the lack Looks like Hase Hase, do you need my help? What does it look like? You want to paddle up-river into the wind? Hase, why don't you get over there You know what? You shut your mouth He's angry. Can you check those lines - What do you think I'm doing? Thank you for telling me what to do what I'm already doing once again. Very angry. Keep in mind, at this point, Hase and Grizz but Hase had reached and the jokes just weren't Grizz's idea about how this Obviously, Hey. I'm sorry, buddy, I was actually pissing you off. I thought- I did not know It's all right. Okay. And so, feeling frustrated, Hase, having turned off his camera, where he set up his camp Hase has set sail, and I think he may have run away. I certainly be thinking about him. I know it's supposed to be cold If he's not back in a couple days, Let's do something to cheer him up. So we got a huge board by Jimmy at the last Beast Drop And I'm going to repurpose it This is actually pretty sturdy. And when Hase returned home, Sounds like Hase has returned Nice. Oh, there's a sea trout. I'm pretty wiped out. - Mind if I take a minute. Grizz! - Yeah, buddy? It's our table. - We have a table. Oh, man! Yeah, I figured This is $100,000 table, Grizz. - Welcome back, buddy. Come on. With their survival needs met one question still remained. How long will they stay? We gotta have a serious - Yeah. Honestly, I'd have been done Maybe push, like, an extra week. I mean, hell, that's a $35,000 each. If I pulled that flare on day 70, how would you feel? I would feel... really let down and lied to. I propose at day 70 we have a conversation decide That's fair. I promised Grizz but I'm not happy about it. Morning, guys. So Hase has been a little upset. I'm seeing it. He's keeping to himself, you know? Spoken to Grizz about it. He's kind of pushing me to stay longer At some point I got to stop being Another day. Yeah. Oh, no. No, no. I knew that was going to happen. Oh, no. Hase going to check out to the case Day 70. I'm going to see See what he says. What are we going to do I kind of want to talk to you I'm kind of ready to hit the flare. What do you think about that? I want to stay longer. I know that that you've got to pull... away from this thing with family. I know, I know, I know, I know, we've talked about it a thousand times. I just want to know Yes or no? Can you go one more day? Give yourself 24 hours I thought a lot about it, but if you want to go another day, How's it going, boys? - How are you, buddy? Let's go on a little walkie-walk. We can go over here. Let's say Hase isn't Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. How many more days do you think Let's call it 45 days would probably be as far as I'd go. How many do you think He talks about it every day. How often do you think about Every day. What stops you? At this stage, Grizz. You know? and it's hard to say no to that. I have an obligation But it's starting to go towards - Yeah. When you do shoot that flare, Oh, I can't wait. Sleep okay last night? I don't want to disappoint Grizz but... I'm... I think I'm done. Thought it would be cool where I was shoulder to shoulder And after that it was like: we're brothers now.&quot; I expected to walk away I didn't expect to walk away that's so meaningful to me. I kind of got to think about what's right for me and my family. It's... Hase got so desperate into Grizzlies bag even though it was his idea At this point, all I have to do is shoot this thing. And I get to be a dad again. I know this thing is What we're doing out I really, truly do - what's right for your family. You're providing for them in a way Now it's gone the other way. Now it's... I think I need... I need to be there. I think that you've been really upset and you've been missing I feel like... - I think the money doesn't matter. The money doesn't... And really, the only thing that's And I'm sick of it. Yeah, my family needs me, too, you know? You're very good at, I don't know. It was clear that in this moment Grizz Convince Hase surviving in these woods or be there for his friend I can't imagine... having gone through this experience I mean, I really do, like, I genuinely you know? I'm sorry that I've just pushed you - I just don't want to let you down. - Yeah, I am. That's the way it is. Everything. Everything's got to come to an end Let me see that flare. I owe you this. And to be honest with you, I'm sorry that it's taken so long. I think it's time for us - I love you, buddy. You smell bad. I think that they shot the flare. Let's go check in on them. - We're rich! - Boys. Oh my God. When we dropped them off this is what they looked like, and here's them 74 days later. Crazy. Yes, they look crazy. You haven't left these woods - Dude, I'm so ready. Oh my God! Oh my gosh! Hi, Talia, baby! I love you! After 74 days, they won $670,000. In case you forgot, we're giving away to random people So don't forget, press that