Hey friend, if you are planning a then here are five things that you'll My name is Ash. I'm a former park ranger and today I have some tips for you for There's some things that you'll want things that I can tell you before you And so let's dig in and talk about these before visiting this park. The first thing National Park. is that this national park is but, uh, even according to the national second most visited park in the nation Um, now a lot of those visitors do come leave. And so there are some areas of the like all the time. And then there's some bit more off the beaten path that not as And so, uh, managing the crowding is actually if you know when to beware. So, um, the timing that it really matters, like, what times you're what times you're trying to catch when you walk versus taking Um, all those things will really play into and there are some things in there you can't control how busy the park is. But and when to be where. And that's what really is and help you to actually find solitude To get some extra help with this, I do have a Shoes website. So you can see I have one, hitting the South Rim and the North Rim, you'll so I do have like fully planned out itineraries I will say that if you're just planning on seeing you don't want to spend a lot of time to show up and kind of navigate through the you're really wanting to dig into the park, um, is make sure that you can see all the Um, then you will definitely want yourself a couple of days because this park it's really my goal to help you explore the second thing that you'll definitely Canyon National Park is actually made out So, we've got the North Rim and the South Rim, far apart, as far as when you're standing on one to drive between the two because you have to the National Park itself is really big, and So let's take a look at the map of This is a very detailed map that they have but basically we have the Grand Canyon And you'll see right here, we have the North the Grand Canyon Village and Desert View are And so, because both of these areas you may want to visit both. But again, you'll is a four hour drive to the South Rim. And so to Jacob Lake and around and down, all the over to Desert View and then cut over to get to long drive and that's why you'll really want to visit as you're planning your trip. Uh, because without anticipating and, and making sure that you This affects you as you're planning sure that you choose the area or give yourself enough time to see both. then you will need multiple days if you're Um, and so to talk you through kind of let's start with the north rim. So the North to. It's not as close to major population groceries, anything like that. Uh, that you really don't get at the South And so, uh, many people, uh, just totally overlook Rim. And so it does stay a lot quieter. There is and so the weather is different. Uh, it gets much because, uh, there is a lot of snow during And so, if you're wanting to visit the expect some really cool things to do, then expect to visit between May 15th and main part of Grand Canyon National Park where So the South Rim just has a lot of amenities. you're just outside of Tucson, which is the get groceries and things like that. You're not trip up from Flagstaff. And so this side of the What is so nice about the South Rim, this is where a lot of the main hiking trails plethora of viewpoints to go explore. Um, this ranger programs, um, hiking trails, So, while the South Rim does stay really are some opportunities for spreading out. that it is open year round. Uh, it does get snow lower in elevation than the North Rim, and so the Um, you're not dealing with as much winter plan on going to the Grand Canyon during the off through February or so, which is typically can go to the South Rim, but just expect to have If you're at the top of the canyon, it's going into it. And so those will be some things planning your trip. Both rims are fantastic. if you only have time to go to one and I would personally start with the South Rim. Uh, there's just more to do and you'll see that peace and solitude, if you're adding in a day or two at the North Rim, Will That leads me into the third thing that you'll which is that if you're wanting to then you will want to plan your trip for And the South Rim, so it's really interesting, but you do have some differing weather and sometimes during those winter months, um, and so you'll want to be prepared for some But what's really nice is all the hotels the shuttle bus, some of the lines do run, areas. If you plan on hiking, you'll tracks to put on your shoes if you're um, closer to the rim up at the top and starting really icy in that area. So if you are planning which I highly, highly recommend actually, it's a views and just really soak in the scenery of the Um, but you will want to come prepared to decide what time of year you definitely pull up the Best Time to Visit it below this video. But this article walks Temperatures, crowd levels, activities, what's by month on Dirt In My Shoes. If you plan expect really hot temperatures. Uh, it can get but what's crazy is it's like a 20 degree the bottom of the canyon, and so if you plan um, then you want to prepare in the inner canyon than you'll find at the rims. when you get to the Grand Canyon during the the rim and 110 to 115. Um, I've seen it get um, for some of those hikes. So keep that in mind. But again, the best time to visit Article on hone in what time is going to work best for you you will need to book your lodging as I mentioned, Grand Canyon is, uh, the So many people want to visit here. especially at the South Rim. But they do something that you'll definitely want to plan as you're in the planning process, is to start so that you can get in there and make those So for the North Rim, the North Rim and it does get booked up really fast. And then lodge is typically 13 months in advance. campground is six months. Uh, there's not a lot So if you go out a little ways, um, there's like are a few options. You have to drive about an hour which is in Jacob Lake. Uh, and I highly don't have to. Definitely, definitely try so that you're not spending a ton of time For the South Rim, there are a lot of lodges you can stay right there on the rim, which A lot of the hotels are just right most of the main activities that you're So, those are really nice. Um, the about 13 months in advance. Sometimes you can especially as it gets closer to the dates of your but do get on there and try quickly as possible so that you have The South Rim does have a few campgrounds Trailer Village right there in the Grand Canyon which is about a 45 minute drive outside the Grand Canyon Village area. Um, those are reservations six months in advance. book as soon as those open up. For the in park making a lot of adjustments to how they do things. website, um, as you're planning your trip to to make those reservations and what the process One last tip for the South Rim. I personally would not stay any further out that south entrance. Uh, Toussaint is fine. and you're really close to the Grand But once you leave Toussaint you can head towards Williams, you can head these areas. I just don't recommend it's like an hour to an hour and a half drive And that's valuable sightseeing time. That's if you're not driving those extra hours get in the park and get to those busy areas you need to get parking. So, uh, it just, either Tucson or Grand Canyon Village One last thing, uh, there is a lodge at the you have to take a mule, or you have to raft and this one is extremely competitive in hiking down to the bottom of the just know that it is on a lottery system as to And that lottery opens up 15 months put your name in for the lottery 15 months in um, and it's hard enough as it is, even and everything. It's just really, But um, so when you see, when you're looking Ranch is at the bottom of the canyon and unique way. And so keep that in mind if to have. The fifth thing that you want to know that if you go to the South Rim, which you uh, then there is an extensive shuttle system So looking at the Grand Canyon website, lines here. We've got the blue one, basically between the visitor's center and the out here that takes you out to the South And you've got the Hermit Road, of it on here. It goes all the way out and this one has a lot of really cool viewpoints. to know about and really, uh, hone in on how Because when you visit the South Rim, um, you'll take the shuttles around throughout the day. your car between trailheads or between hotels or is so limited and it fills up really early and So get there in the morning, get a parking spot, south rim. Now, the thing about the shuttle on the not required for you to take. You can take it. I park here at the visitor center and then you'll This is where a lot of the hotels are. This is Trail, which is what goes down into the canyon. got the Rim Trail that kind of connects everything shuttle to get from either the campground or your Now, where it gets tricky is that the South Rim to take to get to certain areas. And so, if or you haven't looked at the map, or the timeline, to be very frustrated while you're here at the So, the first one that is mandatory is part the Orange Line for these areas over here, so Yavapai Point over here. You don't need I don't recommend it. Again, I would just park What is required is if you're wanting to the Very popular. It's one of the main canyon. You can shorten it. You don't just have a really cool time. So I highly And to get to this trailhead, you have to take the cars out. You can't drive your car in here. So to will be required to take this orange shuttle from that you'll need to take during most months of And that's this red one out here. And out here and then transfer over to this red of these hotels or if you find parking back over to this one if you want to. But let me This is a map of the South Rim. I think pretty so right here, here's your visitor center and And so this is the line, the blue line that you'll see it, but there's this row that goes along And that is where the red shuttle line These are some of my favorite viewpoints in will want to see these viewpoints, you have to take the shuttle to get So, that is a mandatory shuttle if you're of March and November, which most people if you're there from December through vehicle to those viewpoints. Um, but plan on taking the shuttle because we'll be My tip for the shuttle is to just make sure get to which places. So if you have your list I would definitely write down which and really study up on how the shuttles work. Because one of the best things you Grand Canyon vacation is to know they can get really, really busy during they can get really crowded. Um, you can wait Sometimes it gets crazy. And so, um, knowing how when to be. at certain places when to try to catch lines. That will make a huge difference in the Grand Canyon itinerary on Dirt in I have a whole section on using the shuttle to complete, I put which shuttle line you'll if you're a little bit nervous about navigating that itinerary as well, because I will walk you So there you go. There's five things that you'll Canyon with some of my biggest tips for navigating So hopefully this has been helpful. If you need link a bunch of articles below this video, um, website that help with the best time to visit, Um, all of that is there, how to get there, check out Dirt In My Shoes if you're needing any video has been helpful for you and that you have