Hello, it's Mamiko from GOROGORO KITCHEN. Tsu-san is back from work and the week is finally over. Today's dinner is a healthy Japanese meal. The main dishes are scallops cured with Kombu seaweed, and stir-fried scallop strings Kimchi natto and salad as side dishes. Let's eat! I'm so hungry! Tola looks sleepy as he's full too. After dinner, it's time to take care of myself after a hard day's work. The nice scent of the candles and the flickering of the flames relaxes my body. I have recently taken up nail care because my nails are weak. It's because a lot of water work, but taking care of them should improve them. I moisturise well with nail serum and oil. Until my nails are dry, I relax and read a book. The plant book I bought the other day is beautiful and soothing to look. On tired nights, it's best to go to bed quickly. |Tola is monitoring how I brush my teeth. After washing your face and brushing my teeth, it's time to go bed. I woke up in the morning without worrying about the time. As it's late, the sky is much lighter than weekdays. It's cold, but I open the window to let the air in. Pretty pansies add a splash of colour to the cold winter balcony. Kalanchoe that looked withered by the cold. After cutting the leaves and bringing it indoors, small sprouts appeared. I am happy to see new buds on my houseplants. In spring, I'll have to repot them into bigger pots. The cat prevents me from making the bed, but I managed to finish making the bed. 'Huh? Have you finished playing ......?&quot; Weekend is a good day for washing. Today, let's wash the white clothes and towels. The water in France is hard, and the problem is that the white fabrics gradually turns grey. I've heard that washing at 90 degrees prevents it, so I wash white items in boiling water. While washing, Tsu-san went to buy the lunch. It's an excellent hamburger from a food truck that comes only on weekends! While waiting, I prepare the side dishes. Cream soup with bacon and broccoli. Let's also have a salad on the side. Wow! I cannot cut it. It's so tasty! Yeah, it's delicious. The laundry is done. We cannot dry the laundry outside in Paris, so everything is dried in the room. It is important to iron shirts immediately after washing. It gets rid of wrinkles without any wrinkle-removing spray and dries quickly. Flowers that are a mixture of those from the previous week and those from this week. I remove wilted ones and add new flowers to prolong the life of the bouquet. Newly bought is a beautiful, ambiguously coloured ranunculus. Ranunculus and anemones are two of my favourite spring flowers. Tsu-san also bought some vegetables from the marche while he went to buy the burgers. I prep and store them to make them last longer. Wash herbs and broccoli, cut the root of the stem and soak in water. Cut a slit at the base of the eringi mushrooms, split them open. Dry them on a colander. Place the bean sprouts in a storage container and fill it with water. This water should be changed daily. For lettuce, I stick vegetable keepers bought from Japan at the base. Cover the leafy part with paper and put it into a freshness bag. By the way, January was a sale period in France. We went shopping together and got some clothes I bought a knitwear, that reminds me of Harry Potter. Which skirt will go with it? My closet is so stuffy ...... Tsu-san got a new wallet. Tsu-san also got a warm scarf and looks happy. Now, let's prepare dinner. Today's menu is a hotpot and two side dishes. First, boil broccoli for the side dishes. Next, let's prepare the hotpot. Rehydrate the wood ear mushrooms in warm water. Cut 1/2 Chinese cabbage into 2 cm widths. Cut the stems of 1 bunch of coriander into 1 cm widths. Cut 1/2 spring onion into thick round slices. Cut a piece of ginger into strips. Remove the buds from 2 cloves of garlic and cut them into thick slices. These are 6 dried shiitake mushrooms that have been soaked in water since the night before. Squeeze well, cut off the shafts and cut into quarters. Cut the rehydrated wood ear mushrooms into bite-size pieces as well. In a bowl, add 400 g minced chicken meat, 1 egg, 1 tbsp potato starch, 1 tbsp sake, a pinch of salt and pepper and mix well. a pinch of salt and pepper. Mix all well. The minced chicken meat available in my neighbourhood is herbed, but I don't care. Put 2 tbsp sesame oil in a pan and add the ginger, garlic and spring onions, 2 tbsp Chinese pepper, 2 tbsp soy bean sauce and fry all well. When fragrant, add only the stem parts of the coriander and stir-fry further. Add a total of 1 liter of water including the squeezed juice from the dried shiitake mushrooms. While the soup is simmering, prepare the side dishes. Remove the ends of the turnips and peel them. Slice it with a slicer. Add some salt and let it sit. For the cooked broccoli, add mayonnaise, Parmigiano cheese, salt and pepper to taste. Squeeze the water that comes out of the turnips well, add the sugar, white balsamic vinegar, shredded citron peel and mix together. When the hotpot broth comes to a boil, add 2 star anis (if you have), 2 tablespoons of chicken stock, 1 tablespoon of soy sauce and 2 tablespoons of sake, bring to the boil again. Add the Chinese cabbage, rehydrated shiitake and wood ear mushrooms, rolled chicken meat balls and slices of pork belly. Simmer all well. When all the ingredients are cooked, add the bean sprouts and the leaves of coriander. Serve the two side dishes on a plate as well. Now, let's eat! Here you go. Light the portable stove, please. Looks yummy! Go ahead. These are sauce for hotpot. It's Shacha sauce. This is oyster sauce. This is sesame paste, also known as Tahini. This is fermented bean curd. -Well, cheers! Want some Fermented bean curd? Yes. Start with the fermented bean curd then. Fermented bean curd is delicious. Hmm, I didn't know this until I started dating Mamiko. -You say that for everything. Normally, people don't about fermented bean curd, I think. Really? This one. I wonder if everyone knows about fermented bean curd. I'll put in plenty. -That much? Ah, it's okay. When I went to Shanghai, I learned about it, it's really delicious. It's similar to Okinawan-style fermented tofu. Okinawan style one? You don't know about Okinawan-style fermented tofu either? Okinawan-style fermented tofu is a delicacy from Okinawa. What? Tsu-san is just like a new-born fawn. Let's eat! Looks delicious. -Yup! Delicious. This... Here's the side dish. -The side dish is here, right? Looks delicious! Turnip with yuzu vinegar and broccoli with Parmesan mayo. -Parmesan mayo? Sounds delicious! Yeah, I chose side dishes that Tsu-san would like. I was going to make pickled turnips, but I changed the flavour to sweet and sour as you'd prefer it. -The menu is becoming more and more to my liking. I thought a slightly different taste for the broccoli would be nice. Which of the ingredients I brought back from Japan did you like best, Mamiko? Huh? The ingredients? Anything's fine. What did you think was a good buy? Oh, the raisin sand cookies were really delicious. It was the first thing to disappear. Yeah, raisin sand cookies are delicious. It was gone in no time. Even the ones we froze disappeared quickly. It was pointless to freeze them. That's right. They're really tasty. What about the basket? The basket made of silver vine. Silver vine baskets really do get a reaction from cats. When you soak it in water, cats react to it, right? Yes. Probably because... Can you reduce the heat? When it gets wet, its scent seems to come out, and it makes Tola really go wild. But those are handmade by people in Aizu. Oh, when you talk about Tola, you react it? Because we talked about you? So, that's why I decided to store it on the top shelf. Tola, you ate your meal. You can add these to your soup. Yes. Good to know. Delicious. Which one? The broccoli. You liked the broccoli. I thought it'd taste like something kids would like. Why do you treat me like a child? I'm not a kid, you know. I'm already 40 years old. Yeah, you're already 40. Finally, I've turned 40. From now on I will properly refer to myself as 'old man'. -That's not the issue, right? &quot;We old man&quot; or &quot;Because I'm old,&quot; etc. That's a no no, right? -It's a defiant attitude. Like, 'old man is going to do it.' That does sound like you are defiant. Well but, I often get told by younger folks that I'm not 'old' at all. Of course they deny it. Even my niece and nephew said so. Because they think that if they say that, they won't get a New Year's gift. That's not true! We even play soccer together. That's because they concern about you and do it for you. Am I being concerned? Isn't that terrible? What I don't understand is the concept of 'pre-age of calamity' and the 'year of calamity.' In the first place, there are two ways to count your age, right? When I checked at Kawasaki Daishi temple, it says it's in next year. But I feel there've been a lot of unlucky things this year already. -Oh, really? For example, I had a high fever the other day when I was busy at work. I'm thinking I need to be careful because those things seem to happen at my age. Well, I think it's like that. How was your age of calamity, Mamiko? Is it over? It's too far back, I don't remember. Was it really that long ago? When was woman's year of calamity? I am not interested and do not know. You're not interested? What? You are a fan of astrology, right? I'm not into astrology at all. But you do something with moon. Ah, you mean, it's power wishes. Yes. I practice power wishing on the full and new moons and I see it as part of my self-development. I'm not really into, like, moon ceremonies or anything. But you do pay attention to the moon. Because I use that as a trigger for it. Even in high school, I never understood people who were into astrology. Dividing the entire human race into just 12 categories seemed odd to me. You are so realistic! Were you realistic since the moment you were born? &quot;Ah, looks like I've been born...&quot; &quot;Ah, being baby is sluggish...&quot; I've never said &quot;sluggish&quot; before. &quot;Ah, I have to live for another 80 years from here on, what a hassle...&quot; I've never said that, really. I wonder why? Maybe I thought it sounded uncool. Yeah! That's why! Mamiko always tries to act cool. I definitely think you're trying to act cool. Like, you only listen to Western music, things like that. But I really loved Western music. I like Western music too, of course. But I also like Japanese music, but you act like listening Japanese music is uncool, don't you? I never said I don't listen to Japanese music. I used to listen to Anzen Chitai, don't you remember? -I used to listen to Akina Nakamori, too. I like Western music, but I wasn't listening it because I thought it was cool. For example, I've never said 'Oh, I love Sid Vicious!'. Does being cool for you mean that you like Sid Vicious? I don't know, it just came up in my mind. What I liked was 80's pop music. So it's not like it was particularly cool. You loved Wham! Wham!... well, I liked Rick Astley before that. Ah, I see.... and.... I originally liked Duran Duran the most. I thought &quot;oh my god, John is so cute!&quot; -You also liked Motley Crue, right?&quot; I was really into heavy metal. I also went to see a Guns N' Roses concert. I couldn't quite understand Guns N' Roses. Really? I just can't help it. I don't really like heavy rock that much. Well... I don't know, maybe because I was in the U.S. I liked Skid Row and stuff like that too. I used to listen to them a lot. I was listening to White Snake too. When I heard Mamiko liked that, I was like 'Oh, really?' at first. Yeah, that's how it goes sometimes. I became a fan of TM Revolution after start working and every time I tell that, everyone was surprised. I don't understand how that part coexists. You like TM Revolution and you like Korean idols too, right? Yes. As for K-pop idols, some of the editors I worked with in Japan were into them and I was influenced by them. It tends to happen. I listened to their songs with them and even went to a concert with them, and for some reason I cried on the way home. I was touched by how hard everyone was working. I don't know understand the feeling of it. After the concert, I bought a lot of stuff from the merchandiser. Afterwards I went to my favourite bar, where I handed them their CDs and asked them to play them. What touched your heart so much? They were trying so hard. I think people feel like a mother. -Really? Was there ever a time when you thought so? I don't know, everything. -All of it? The concert hall was huge and I could only see like a pea, but I was crying on the way home. It's amazing, they make people cry that much. That was yummy! Thank you for the meal.