This is actually super interesting to me, because it's one of the most famous proofs of all time. It's the proof for Fermat's last theorem, which Andrew Wiles famously solved. Now I don't wanna explain that, what I want to explain is what's at the heart of that proof. It's actually not what Wiles spent seven years on, it's it's actually something else. It's the Taniyama-Shimura-Weil conjecture which is now called modularity. So we're gonna say is Fermat's last theorem is true and has to be just as obvious as the In this case, Fermat's theorem reduces down to something called modularity, it's the modularity theorem. So it's not 1 doesn't equal 2 here, it's something else. So it's all about two things, about elliptic curves and this is specifically for whole numbers and fractions are actually modular forms in disguise, so what does that mean? And that's how I feel even as a mathematician it's like, what? So what I want to do, just trying to get you to appreciate what this means; just an appreciation not the full thing, just an appreciation of what's going on. And what I'm gonna do is I'm just going to use much simpler equations, right, what do you want to start with? So starting with modular forms, a modular form, now the way you need to think about this is it's something to do with symmetry, but there's different forms of symmetry. And the one I want to show you today is called translational symmetry, and what it is, is this. Imagine you have an infinite plane this is being nicely provided by brown paper. And imagine we actually have here so I'm just gonna just going to kind of just put arrows to represent that I've chopped this up. Imagine now cutting this up into strips, infinite strips strips all the same width, and so now translational symmetry 'cos this goes on forever, like left and right as you can imagine What has the symmetry which you can basically take a strip of this, and cut and paste but what's important is we want to know what functions you can cut and paste, cut and paste. yeah, a graph, but what it is we're looking for an equation, we want something to generate it, because say if you had like a picture it might have a really complicated equation. Maybe it doesn't even have an equation at all. I can think about a pattern I mean this I usually like pretty regular patterned shirts But the point is I want to show you something which actually has a very regular pattern and it's something I'm hoping you've seen before it's one of a sine wave so it goes up and down up and down up complicated equation but the important thing equation that you crank out potentially you could so that's the idea, a modular form has that it's really complicated but if you get the ... cut &amp; paste thing, you take one section functions are like that. How about a function Brady: (laughing) so a circle has an equation. I'm actually going to write the equation down just because it's fun basically the circle is another equation think about it just exists in saying ellipitic curves (so whole numbers and fractions) it's actually saying is that you can fit a translational symmetry equation into the this is magical stuff. So how does this well the way you have to think about it is that alright? now we start following it around yeah? So let's just have fun, maybe we could do it really quickly maybe go slowly maybe go fast-slow-fast-slow but if going round and round and round imagine moving through space so if you think now if I go like this, so now I'm gonna start and so what's actually going on is I'm Brady: It's like a slinky that's right so now just imagine right, what coil now again if it was a slinky, slinkies you we've got a slinky that's just perfectly equation; it has a helix equation, it's got an equation in down the barrel of that helix? What down and there was no perspective the barrel what would you see? Simon: that's right, so what's actually going on there is that the helix can fit inside the equation of the circle and the only reason this works is because 3D dealing with curvy spaces this is really spaces the actual elliptic curves belong to hyperbolic space, the complex numbers, I example it's really nice because what three-dimensional numbers into three-dimensional, they exist in three dimensions relationship going on. So what the coil So this is the link between modular forms and elliptic curves. It says that this really strange function over function over here and when this happened could stick, you know, you can stick this believed it was because no one could completely different spaces. That's the actually make Fermat's last theorem work. thing because if you think about it if its cycling around ok as long as it's a back on top of itself. Like there is a point you can multiply fractions by, you'll get a around a circle if you start with some the same spot if you have an irrational that can't be a fraction you started at we never get back to the .. to the actual original of the proof the fact these these matters. This is not how the proof is feeling for what's going on the fact theorem involves numbers is because actually they work together impact whether you can put a curve into here is the fact that they said: Fermat's last theorem involves whole numbers therefore the circle equation I'm making should permit one of these wonderful people that you've seen if you haven't seen yet all the they showed that that created a you're playing by the rules and using these things so again it's the one, not equaling two. Our thanks audible.com for supporting like a hundred and eighty thousand and I often enjoy listening to well a with the girls now if the beauty of why don't you try Love and Math the Hidden someone you've probably seen in quite a sorts of great stuff in it including quite something that's not a million miles like so many books available in audio numberphile if you'd like to give it a one month trial you might choose a collection there are plenty of math ones again audible.com / numberphile so they know you came myself I'd like to thank them for