This video was made in partnership with The finance and investing newsletter that unpacks be read in just five minutes each morning. According to Forbes Magazine there are 2,755 The top five industries where they made their Retail and Healthcare. It is rare to become a billionaire, but even lose everything, but it is not unheard of. Today we'll look at ten one-time billionaires worth fell from eight billion dollars to two Some of the people on this list lost their through engaging in criminal activity. One gained her billions through divorce and it all away. Ok, first up we have Anil Ambani. Anil Ambani's father died without leaving dollars. A feud erupted between Anil and his brother their mother finally stepped in splitting brothers. By 2008, Anil was listed by Forbes as the worth of $42 billion. His fortunes began their decline in 2011 after Anil gained notoriety as one of the fastest hundred years as his companies declined in In 2019, Anil was held in contempt of court to Swedish telecoms firm Ericsson that he The court gave him a month to come up with He was rescued by his older brother, Mukesh Asia and is one of the ten wealthiest people billion dollars. In February 2020, Anil was locked in a legal He was asked to set aside $100 million by net worth had fallen below zero once his liabilities The dispute still rages on with the UK court $716 million. Next up is Jesse Livermore, an American stock is one of the pioneers of day trading. The main character in Reminiscences of a Stock that all traders read was based on Jesse Livermore. Livermore was reputed to have made a million the panic of 1907. He then flipped to the long side tripling In early 1929, he amassed a huge short position to hide what he was doing. In the 1929 crash, he made over $100 million The press called him "The Great Bear of crash. He received numerous death threats and had At one time, he was one of the richest people he filed for bankruptcy three times. By 1939 he was in debt and trying to make In 1940 at the age of 63 Livermore shot himself hotel in Manhattan. At the time of his suicide, he had liabilities Some regard Livermore as the greatest trader cautionary tale about the risks of extreme Before we get to number three let me quickly The Daily Upside is a free newsletter written and scholars. After reading the newsletter for the last A lot of news sources just curate the big deeper, teasing out the insights that matter, elsewhere. If you've gotten tired of news outlets regurgitating They strike that elusive balance between gravitas The other day they had apiece on how Robinhood's of dollars in fees to print proxy materials. After reading that story, I was even compelled audience. Whether you're a financial professional business news, The Daily Upside will help. It's completely free to sign-up and read, it enough. Sign up using the link in the description. OK, so next up we have Bill Hwang - Before greatest trader you'd never heard of. He began his career working for Julian Robertson's hedge funds in history. He then started his own fund called Tiger of the biggest Asia-focused hedge funds. In 2012, he was accused of insider trading paid a $44 million fine to settle the case. He then wound up his fund and started a family in savings. Over an eight-year period he managed to turn twenty and thirty billion dollars. He was probably the most profitable trader In two short days in late March 2021, all Investment Banks had provided billions of massive bets. His positions were extremely concentrated of this certain single stocks made up between It looks like his approach involved taking its price rose, he would use those profits more of the stock driving it up further. When Viacom CBS began to fall in March, he he could not meet. The brokers raced to dump the stocks, wiping moving banks like Credit Suisse and Nomura. OK, next on the list is Elizabeth Holmes who as the youngest self-made billionaire in the She was the founder of Theranos, a blood testing its peak, and she owned half of the company. While it was a medical equipment (or testing) Holmes had (of course) dropped out of Stanford dressed like Steve Jobs, so Theranos was viewed Amusingly she insisted that the air conditioning made wearing a black turtleneck more comfortable John Carreyrou, a journalist at The Wall Street company was an elaborate fraud back in 2015 did not work. His interest in Theranos was triggered by ground-breaking medical technology after just At first, Holmes denied the claims and threatened In 2018, she stepped down as CEO and was charged and made false claims about the blood testing Life-changing medical decisions were being The entire company had been built on a foundation Holmes now faces up to 20 years in prison. Her trial begins this week. Next up is Eike Batista, who began his career Germany. He moved to Brazil in the early 1980's and A year and a half later, the company had earned From 1980 to 2000, he created $20 billion in Brazil, Canada, and Chile. In 2011, All of Batista's companies were named &quot;X&quot;, which Batista believed was a symbol for Batista was listed by Forbes magazine as the person in Brazil. His wealth was estimated at $30billion. Batista's business affairs began to unravel OGX, could not keep up with promised production, In 2013, Bloomberg News reported his losses The losses can be attributed largely to the as well as a catastrophic collapse of the Other economic issues and management decisions Bloomberg News described it as a &quot;Perfect By 2015 his net worth was negative, having In 2017 Batista was arrested and jailed after year he was fined for insider trading. His legal troubles continued in 2018, when to 30 years in prison. It is difficult to know what to make of some over the insider trading charges was seen had been seized by the court. The judge claimed that the police had no other OK, I'm sure you have all heard of Bernie For decades, Madoff enjoyed an image as a defied market fluctuations. A former chairman of the Nasdaq, he attracted Florida retirees to celebrities. In 2008 his investment advisory business was It is believed to be the biggest fraud in He became so hated that he wore a bullet proof Entirely apart from the Ponzi scheme, Madoff was worth $3billion. Bernie Madoff was a pioneer of the payment has made famous in the last year. By paying for order flow, Bernie siphoned on the New York Stock Exchange away from the floor, creating what was known as a &quot;third At the time of his arrest, fake account statements $60billion. Over the years, court-appointed trustees unwound of an estimated $17.5 billion that investors Madoff pleaded guilty in March 2009 to securities sorry and ashamed." Allen Stanford is next on our list. Though Allen is not as well-known as Bernie exact same way -- a Ponzi scheme. He defrauded about 18,000 people, out of the Bank. At his peak in 2008, he was worth an estimated Over a three-year period, he spent over $100 and private jets. He even spent $12 million lengthening his He was knighted by the Antiguan government his knighthood was stripped. There is no record as to whether he wears (I'm sure there are rules about that) the investors' Certificates of Deposit were These allegedly low-risk investments paid what investors should expect from low-risk pay these above-market rates because it was overhead. Other than the planes, boat enlargement surgery The scheme was discovered in 2009 and in 2012, 20-year investment fraud scheme in which he personal businesses and lifestyle. He was sentenced to 110 years in prison. The court imposed a personal judgment of $5.9 Stanford to pay back criminal proceeds. Next up we have Sean Quinn, the epitome of He famously built an international empire farm. At the age of fourteen, Quinn borrowed PS100, started extracting gravel, washing it and Soon dubbed the 'Mighty Quinn', he carved outsider who took on big monopolies and won. He took on the huge Cement Roadstone Holdings market sewn up. His attention later switched to insurance, formula of taking on fearsome monopolies and By 2008 he was the richest man in Ireland empire collapsed. In 2007 right before the financial crisis, a commercial bank that was very big in property A country that was at the peak of a huge property As the price of Anglo fell Quinn started doubling shares. These are a bet on the share price rising, If the price falls, you take the hit. As the price of Anglo fell, he took on enormous to his position. In total, Quinn would borrow around 3 billion on their shares. Quinn had to sign over the ownership in his Most of his other businesses were hit by the Anglo Irish Bank was eventually bailed out became worthless. In 2011 when Anglo was being wound up, the he had borrowed to buy shares and Quinn was In 2012, Quinn was jailed for three months just before losing control of his companies. Today he lives with his wife and family in Next up we have Jocelyn Wildenstein, who became divorce settlement in 1999 from her art dealer Wildenstein was heavily featured in tabloids extensive cosmetic surgeries that landed her I should point out that she claims to have Who Knows... She is the only billionaire on this list who it. In one story, she wrote a bad check for some to lose before the jeweler got around to demanding She told reporters her net worth dropped after to be forged or worth much less than expected. She also faced several lawsuits and foreclosures. In 2018, Wildenstein filed for bankruptcy, It is quite amazing to have spent 2.5 billion to show for it -maybe she should check under of jewelry. Our next story is quite a sad one, the story powerful industrialists who built his family's conglomerate. He was known as a modest man who would bicycle By 2007 he had built up a net worth of more In the 2000's a very popular hedge fund which should have a relationship to each other shares of a given company. If they got out of whack with each other (one might exist. Investors would buy the relatively underpriced overpriced security short. The idea is that the market would eventually A few hedge funds made a lot of money in 2001 swapping them for ordinary shares to tidy The preferred shares were trading at a 20 when the two securities converged in price. When other traders saw this happen, they began could do the same and all found Volkswagen, discount to the ordinaries. Merkle, along with a lot of hedge funds traded short the ordinaries. In October 2008, Porsche revealed that it voting shares. It was well known that The State of Lower would not sell, which meant that the shares dropped to just under 6 percent of the float. Twelve per cent of the shares outstanding every short seller to close out their position. In other words, half the room were going to out. A panicked dash for the exit began. This was one of the most extreme short squeezes In the midst of the great financial crisis, in the world. Yes, Volkswagen was even bigger than Tesla. Merckle lost around half a billion in the hit his corporate empire hard. When chided for his losses, he argued that to build his empire and create hundreds of Crushed by watching his life's work slip through under a speeding train in January 2009. At the time of his death, his investment company Our last billionaire on the list is Chuck "Duty Free Shoppers" in 1960, later launching He amassed a net worth of around eight billion His goal was to give virtually all his money He pioneered the idea of "Giving While Living" charity bets instead of funding a foundation He figured that if you can't take it with of where it goes and see the impact with your While many philanthropists hire an army of went to great lengths to keep his gifts secret. In September 2020, Feeney closed down his less retirement savings of around $2 million Don't forget to check out our sponsor The description. It's a great newsletter I can firmly recommend. YouTube has predicted that you'll want to Let's see if they are right!