- [Eva] Today I'm traveling the most isolated remote outside of Alaska. - 18 of us live here year-round. - It happens to sit at the end of a very remote, long dirt road with no school, no for 100 miles in every direction. This was a busy town back in its heyday. I'm taking several hours to drive here to see what it's like to live in a place that's just so detached from the busy, crowded, and that most of us know. It must be one of the most beautiful roads I've ever driven down. And on a more personal note, I wonder is this a place I could If you live here, you'd (light music) Why would anyone come here? I mean, I think it's a valid question. About 50 miles ago, I got that's just been getting worse and worse and sucking me deeper and deeper into this remote, vast landscape. There's no towns. I passed maybe five cars along the way, a few houses, and this road There's nothing else at the end. You know, it kind of but like the opposite. (laughs) Like in New York City, you Out here, it's like, &quot;Where is everybody?&quot; (light music) Here is the first problem with reaching this remote town I'm traveling to. It's in Nevada, but in order to reach it, you have to drive through Idaho because it's the only way The next problem, the next closest gas The closest city is 100 miles away. For about an hour and a there are no services as (light music) Eventually, the pavement ends and the only road that leads 18 miles of dirt. - My name is Paul. - I work on the ranch, like I'm up at (dog barking) - Oh, that's so cool. I mean, it's like a very long way. - Oh, oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. - Yeah? makes it interesting is - Yeah? You're doing adventurous stuff. - Yeah! - I used, I rode a - You did? up in Canada and stuff like that. - Oh, that's so cool. - Jason and Jane will - Where do I find Jason and Jane? - They'll be, well, right but right across the - Yeah. it's a nice bar and grill. - Okay. but I kind of figure you're a camper. - Yeah, yeah, yeah. It was very nice chatting with Paul. He reassured me that despite the really long, And he gave me a mission, which is to say hi to Jane and Jason at the Outdoor Inn. So that's what we're gonna do. Where else in the United States would you run into a total enjoy a nice chat, and have them ask you to say hi to their friends? It felt like I was entering a very small world within a world. And I had so many questions What kind of people And why do they choose to live (light music) You know, there's a part of me that wants to keep this place a secret. (Eva laughing) May not be a national It must be one of the most beautiful roads I've ever driven down. (light music) Yep, it definitely felt a whole different dimension, as if I was driving to some That is until the UPS truck Holy crap, that just answered which was &quot;Does UPS deliver here?&quot; They clearly do. (light music) I mean, wow, that's a long way to deliver just a few packages. (light music) Seeing these delivery trucks make the trek all the way here made me wonder. How do the locals overcome What if you have an accident? What if your car breaks down? Where do your kids go to school? Well, I'll find all of that out soon. For now, all I need to know is where I'm gonna be Happy, boy? Twist. Yes! It's been a really long day of driving and it's getting a little bit late so I found this beautiful I mean, it's just so I'm like two miles away from Jarbidge. So gonna wake up tomorrow morning and go and check out the town. But for now, I'm gonna make some food, make a little of fire, just enjoy the nature here. Truth be told, it wasn't just I've been trying to find a place to lay down some roots somewhere. The idea of living in a very but a place that has a honestly, it sounds like a fairytale. So I wanted to come out whether I could ever live (Eva laughing) Get it, get it, get it, get it. Well, it's just me out here. There's nobody else. Completely empty. Hey, guys, just hopping on that there is a director's of this very video over With this specific video, I did not know anybody in Jarbidge. Like my kind of mission was to but I didn't know a single soul. In the director's commentary series, I take you behind the giving you some of the insights into what it actually takes It is interesting just how because of or thanks to an interviewee who is either great and entertaining or a little bit shy. In the specific case of this video, I tell you all about how how I found this little town, some of the risks that I had to take in making this film happen, as well as some of the inherent that come with interviewing Anyway, I hope that you get Here is the link, and (light music) Any advice for making Except for bring your own? (light music) I'm just gonna make the and warm myself up. You wanna go inside? Yeah? (light music) Well, since my fire didn't I've decided to make Now, in doing so, I have somehow managed to burn my pot. Oh my God. Ta-da! Welcome to the zu Beck Family Extravaganza which is just a culinary You know me. And here on this wonderful plate, I've got some fake meat, fake cheese, fake mayonnaise, (laughs) real chili sauce, and real sauerkraut. And as a bonus, a little bonus, here, I got me some fake beer. So basically I'm having (light music) Good morning. Good morning, bubba. Hi. Hi, buddy. (light music) You get a sense of just even before you enter it, So I'm here maybe like two miles away and there's a sign here for Elko. Elko is in Nevada. But the only road to actually is to go up this really rough, which is not maintained in the winter. So in reality, the only reliable way to access Jarbidge is through Idaho. - No, I can't get through there. - No? - I'm not gonna try. No, - Oh, okay. - Have a good day. So this nice gentleman just and he told me that it's not possible. There's too much snow, fallen trees. And it's June. (laughs) It's June. (laughs) (light music) Welcome to Jarbidge, population 18. This street here is called, yep, you guessed it, Main Street and it's home to pretty Oh my God, this town is so cool. It's literally like a little alpine town just nestled in this The story of Jarbidge of so many other mining In the early 1900s, word got out that someone found gold up here. Prospectors moved in and became a busy gold mining town, all hoping to find their fortunes here. And these are original that actually used to be brothels. So there's about five of these, and all five were brothels. This was a busy town back in its heyday. 1,500 miners lived here, looking for gold. There was bars and and shops and brothels too. I mean, you couldn't tell now, but how times change, hey? (light music) There's just so many things I mean, one of the has no paved roads, right? It's all dirt. There's no traffic lights. There's like one shop. Barely, I mean, it's closed. But there is a jail. (laughs) Jarbidge jail. (light music) Well, the trading post is closed and the judge in nowhere in sight, so I think I'm gonna pass up on this, but the jail closed in 1945. And interestingly enough, in the criminal history of Jarbidge, the last stagecoach robbery in the United States (light music) It's just started raining, to go into the cafe and maybe some local specialties. One of the cons of living in Jarbidge is probably the very Hi. - One of the pros of living in Jarbidge is probably the very Because if you lived here, this is where all your local friends would come together every Friday night. You end up knowing the You'd know the bartender, and everybody who comes Sure enough, the fabled within a few moments of my arrival. Wait, you're Jane? - And by any chance, is - [Jane] Yeah. - [Eva] Jane sent Jason my way. Together, they run the local restaurant, the bar, the hotel, and the gift shop. I wanted to ask Jason what life was really like in Jarbidge. Jarbidge has how many full-time residents? - 18 of us live here year-round. I was raised here. What was that like as a kid? - Awesome. Way better - [Eva] Oh, yeah? at eighth grade, so having in the city was culture shock, which is why I'm back here now. - [Eva] So with 18 people is there a school? - [Jason] Yep, there was a - [Eva] Maybe not the with kids if you don't wanna homeschool. - It would be a great idea. We'd just have more people. We need more year-round residents. - [Eva] Oh, yeah? - Somebody to help take care of the roads, be on the fire department- - help take care of the water plant. Things that need to be done around town. The average age in this - [Eva] Wow. Jane and I are the fourth And there's only three younger than us. Everybody else is old enough - [Eva] Do you ever feel, - Never. Growing up here, it's what I know and what I've always liked. And I've worked on all the so I've always lived in remote areas and worked around very few people. So it's always been home to me. - [Eva] And I'm assuming is quite close-knit, right? - Everybody knows everybody. - [Eva] Right. Is that a good thing? - Most of the time. (laughs) - [Eva] Most of the time. I like that. Very diplomatic. If anybody needs help, anybody will help anybody anytime. - [Eva] Right. when you're this far out. - [Eva] Yeah, it's very different living in the city, where know your neighbors. And you walk by thousands and never even look up at them. - [Eva] Yeah. smiles and waves. You pass somebody in the canyon, they wave to you when you're driving by. - [Eva] Yeah, it's so true. - If you're stopped on they stop and ask if you're - [Eva] Yeah, it's so true. Every single person I've or in town has at least waved, you know? Which is really sweet. Really nice. - It's kind of the old style Old West community. - Not many of them left anymore. It's kind of a step back in time up here. - [Eva] It is. Of the good kind. (laughs) - Very good. - [Eva] What do you think is - [Jason] The scenery. You've traveled around a bit. If you didn't know you were in Nevada, you'd never guess right now. - [Eva] Never. Like I'm used to seeing just the desert in Nevada, right? - [Jason] Yep, and that's because all the major highways - [Eva] Right. &quot;Oh, this is a great place But you get 10, 15 miles off all the canyons have fresh water, green grass, and an abundance of wildlife. But people never get - [Eva] So you've got and then how many grocery stores? - Just one. Two bars and two restaurants. A hotel and a motel. - [Eva] How many mechanics? - We have two. - [Eva] And doctors? - No doctors. We have one retired nurse that's here. - [Eva] How many paved roads? - None. It's 18 miles - [Eva] But there is a fire brigade. - Yep, we have a - [Eva] What happens if or there's a medical emergency? - We have an ambulance across the street. We're all first responders and And then that's where - [Eva] Right. Not just down to the dump. - Yeah, we take you to the and then you go away. This is fry sauce. - [Eva] Fry sauce. And - It's basically Thousand (Eva laughing) - [Eva] A local specialty. - Yeah. - So Jase was just saying that this is something that you'll find only in southern Idaho or northern Nevada. All right, let's try (light upbeat music) It's really good. Mm-hm. It's got like a little bit of tang. It's great. - [Eva] Okay, so this is Jarbidge Jane's. Is that? - Jarbidge Jane's Gift Shop. (laughs) - And I love these tops. I But I'm gonna show you (light upbeat music) - [Jane] What the hell's a Jarbidge? - What the hell's a Jarbidge? I feel like if you have or a tank top like this and you're part of like a very secret club. A very secret secret society. (laughs) - We have a camo version too. - Love it. I love this. (light upbeat music) One of these stickers is So as I prepare to leave the town, I'm gonna do the honors and put it right up there. (laughs) You know, once in a while that is really, really hard to leave. And Jarbidge is really pretty. The nature here is beautiful. It's gorgeous. But best thing about visiting was just getting to know some You know, Jane and Jase, and Beverly at the restaurant, Everybody was so kind and It just really felt like if you live here, you'd And at the end of the day, isn't that one of the most important is having a community around you? Good neighbors, good people. Well, could I see myself living here? Hmm, I'm still thinking about it. I think they were joking, invited me to come and They have no idea how bad of a cook I am. Maybe I just won't tell them and bookmark their offer But for now, I'm heading further north in search of a place to call home. (light music)