- What happens when you take the world's best night vision goggles into the world's darkest room? - You start to feel a little strange. And sometimes start to get - Can you tell the difference between your eyes being closed and open? - Should not be able - Three in here. - Almost no photons. Invisible. That's right. - One. - Pitch darkness. (laughs) No way. This is insane. These are the PVS-31As. One of the best night It is literally like night and day. We visited a Navy base in Crane, Indiana to put them to the test Now things are gonna get real. It's my first time looking - I'm going to pan these down. - Oh wow. (laughs) Oh my God. To make a video about we had to film in the pitch because cameras work by focusing photons of light down onto a sensor. And there, the photons generating a charge, which is converted into a voltage and digitized into ones Now, there's a setting we made which essentially boosts that voltage to make the whole image brighter. For reference, this is by a single candle looks like at an elevated ISO of 6,400. Now, in a split screen, let me show you what this Now you can see a lot more This is pretty similar that the human eye can see And now this is what it looks like on our camera's maximum ISO of 409,600. All the dark scenes in at this maximum ISO. But look how dark it is compared This is because the Navy base was located in the middle of nowhere, and we turned off all the streetlights. All right. Plus, we planned the shoot specifically for a moonless night. In these conditions, I'm gonna try to drive a with nothing but night I hope that's in drive. But the type of night vision All affordable night vision and they're basically the same as strapping a flashlight onto your head. Except the light they give off is not visible, but near infrared, wavelengths that are just Then they have a camera that can capture that near-infrared light and display what the camera This is the simplest and It's called active illumination. There are actually three - Night vision is different ones that create their own light, ones that amplify existing light, and ones that image in the - And while the other types of night vision can cost thousands, our active illuminators It's very zoomed in, I feel like. (laughter) - It's not a one-to-one? - It's not a one-to-one. Because they're far cheaper and easier to make than any active illumination is what's used in almost all commercial or nighttime security cameras. These were the first night to attempt to drive in pure darkness. I have no idea where the focus is. If you could see this, you would be terrified. I'm looking out at the road, and I have the focus Oh my goodness, this is not advisable. I have no idea how fast we're going. The problem with these goggles It is bouncing, and it's not really bouncing It is just like, bouncing. If we hit a parked car right - Oh God. - Okay, straight. Straighten it out. - Straight, straight. - Straighten it out. - Ben has military so he can actually see where we're going. - More to the left, more to the left. Yep. And we're probably good. - Oh! If I hadn't been directed from behind, we would've crashed so many times. I also feel a little bit This is one of the big drawbacks There's a significant delay and what's displayed on screen. - For most digital systems, the fastest you could ever So if it's 24 frames per second, the fastest you could be in the delay is about 1/24 of a second. Tens of milliseconds, maybe. - That's enough to make and lose their coordination. Oh boy. Do you wanna throw me a Frisbee? (mischievous music) (Frisbee scraping) - (laughs) You don't even move. - I can't see anything. (mischievous music) (Frisbee scraping) (Emily laughs) I think I'm gonna have to There is crazy rolling shutter, and just everything's jiggling Another drawback of active illumination is that your range limited, since you can only see as But the main reason you can't use these in the military is simple. They aren't passive. There's a bright beacon so enemies can easily spot you. In fact, military night vision goggles are a totally different technology. But they can still see And this is why we've to capture the light from Have you ever been out at and sort of spotted someone who's got like, an active - Yeah, no comment on that one. - (laughs) Fair enough. Military night vision goggles so they don't use active illuminators. Instead, they rely exclusively on the second type of night vision: image intensification. So should we try good goggles now? Oh my goodness. It is All right, let's do this. (exhilarating music) - Oh, he's off with so much confidence. - Because I can see. - I'm going straight for the cone. I'm gonna go to the left of this cone, then I'm gonna go in between them. Oh, yes. - Whoa. - It's just like driving in the day. This technology uses only the When photons enter goggles, they get physically amplified so that way more photons to reach your eyes. And in terms of like, how much can you comment on that? - Yeah, it's definitely at least on the order of thousands. - Thousands of times brighter. - Yeah. - And they're very light, so people can wear them for All powered by a single AA battery. Driving the vehicle now was super easy. So easy that I got a - Maybe a little slower on the corner. - Okay. And since the goggles don't there's almost no delay in what you see. So you can shake the goggles, and the world just moves with you. - The time from light in to You can get down to microsecond Nanosecond levels. - It's as if there are No, I can see so incredibly well. Let me compare to like, no night vision. Oh my goodness. Man, the world looks so much This is when we found an (delicate ethereal music) The stars are phenomenal. Through the goggles, starlight to light your entire environment. This also means that the in its full glory. Emily, you are gonna have your mind blown when you see through these. - Oh my god. You can see Oh, and you can see the Okay. Yeah, I can drive with this. Oh my god, this stretch is gorgeous. And it all looks like Like, everything is sparkly Honestly, I find it really relaxing. - The one problem I noticed is that these night vision goggles have a limited field of view. You got no peripheral, really. - None, none. I think I can, like, I can get up to like, this far. - But the Navy have one than the ones we've been using. (mysterious music) These are the GPNVG-18s. They also use image intensification, but now it's applied to four tubes to fill your field of view. - The way this optic is it's combining it into one sort of ellipse into your eye so that you can look with your eye side to side, without having to move your head. - They're the most They retail for over $40,000 online. They're also the same goggles which were used in the SEAL Team Six raid on Osama bin Laden in 2011. (engine roaring) That's amazing. Yeah, I'd be happy to do Yes! It just makes you so much more The last thing that makes so natural is their incredible resolution. - When we characterize we don't think about it in terms of pixels or resolution in that sense. We think about it in terms So how many line pairs can you resolve within one millimeter of physical space? - For a pair of night vision they need to be able to resolve at least 64 line pairs per millimeter. - So there's a almost qualitative-like, but very skilled and historic process for how these are quantified - Is it like years of - I'd say within six months up to speed. - For this I'm gonna go completely dark. - Okay, there's a bright It says plus two on one - Maybe can't say what it really says. - Okay. I won't say what it really says. - We ran into this issue a lot. - Oh, I can't really answer that. Yeah, no comment on that one. (Derek laughs) I cannot comment on that. So the process to make and the photocathode, yeah, we can't talk about that, either. - (laughs) So much about is a secret, since they're This video is the absolute limit of what the Navy is about their night vision. Though we're not allowed we can show these. - You see similar bars that we had in the night vision are out And then we've got, if we maybe go towards this other corner, you could see at different distances. And the bigger the optic gets, the farther away you can see. And so you need farther and to understand the resolution and the quality of those images. We do a lot of lab characterization how far it'll be able to see, but the ultimate test is to - We use line pairs per millimeter to describe the goggles' resolution because image intensification This is the secret to how they emulate our normal vision so well. Digital cameras have refresh rates and resolution limits to worry about because they're converting photons into discrete values on pixels. But image intensifiers are a continuous, real-time, one-to-one This is how it works. In a dark scene, limited light from things like and sends some photons toward the image intensification tube. The lens focuses these as an upside-down image, where First, the photon hits a thin made from semiconductors When a photon hits the plate, an electron in that part and is ejected into the vacuum. Next, the electrons are accelerated through the vacuum tube by a voltage. They head straight into called the microchannel plate, and this is made from insulating with about 6 million tiny channels in it. These are all angled at about five degrees to get incoming electrons to When they do, they release more electrons which collide even more with the walls, releasing more electrons, So a few electrons go in, and a flood of thousands come out. Then this flood of electrons and gets accelerated in a straight line by another high voltage to This is just a screen made of material that glows when exposed to radiation. So it converts the electron kinetic energy back into visible photons for you to see. So every photon that enters the tube gets while maintaining its position, which makes for a brighter As a last step, there are 20 million to the phosphorus screen that (soft music) - The photocathode, that vacuum gap, the phosphorus screen, is all in this first section. About the width of my fingernail. The rest of this space - Oh wow. For decades, the phosphorus It's this historic phosphor for all the classic green from movies or video games. But in dark conditions the in the green part of the spectrum. There are two types of rods and cones. Cones are better for well-lit vision, and they're good at distinguishing color. They're located in the Rods are better for low-light vision, and they're located at This is why you can out of the corner of your eye, but they disappear if you The light sensitivity of rods peaks in the blue part of the visible spectrum. So that's why our PVS-31As look like this. They've been upgraded to white phosphor, which looks slightly blue overall, making it easier for people to make out. To see how well these night we put them in a well-lit room and covered them up entirely, except for a little thumbtack hole. This lets in only a tiny bit of light. But the view through the goggles is still brighter than the room itself. We couldn't expose the to any more light than this, but not because of where bright light is enough to incapacitate people - So what would happen if without the cap? Would this just turn white? - It would still function, but you wouldn't want to do that for a very long period of time. It's got a current limiter in how much charge can be and increasing the light that component of the circuit. - But what happens if we to its opposite limit, by using the goggles in a If you want to test night vision goggles, you gotta go to the place where it is absolutely pitch dark, underground, all sealed It's gonna be completely disorienting. - So we're in an underground range here at the Navy base, Crane. And this place is usually used but we can also seal it all the way down to where there's almost no - So there's basically zero light in here, almost no photons. - In the visible. That's right. - We are now going to make it completely pitch black in here, but on top of that, the So even with night vision goggles, we might have no luck at all. If you are in pure darkness what happens? - You start to feel a little strange. Kind of like being in an anechoic chamber, where you can't hear things. The lack of sensory to give a little bit of vertigo - Okay. - Three, two, one. - Pitch darkness. Okay, my night vision's on. - Wow, I actually can't - With PBS-31As in pure darkness, you mainly just see their - Oh my god, it just - When I look that way, I just get snow. All this noise comes from through the goggles in two ways. One is thermionic emission. Just due to thermal energy, some electrons will have enough And the other is due There's such a strong that it'll pull some electrons Can you make out the face? 'Cause I mean, there's a little bit of light which might hit my face. Because image intensification can only amplify existing light, its one limitation is that It can be tiny, but there If you're in absolute darkness, even active illumination is a better bet. Now, this is advantageous because if you're in a really black room, then you do kind of need Unless you use the final thermal imaging. With my naked eye, I can't but with the goggles I know it's up there. While image intensification attempts to match your normal vision, thermal imaging goes beyond it. In the electromagnetic spectrum, the infrared range has longer wavelengths than the visible range. All the shorter wavelengths up to mid-wave infrared light are reflective, meaning that everyday objects on their own. You need a light source. To see my shirt, we can't be in the dark. You need visible light to And that's why we needed on the active illumination devices. But the long infrared meaning that it doesn't That's because all objects and the shape of their You can see that only like stars have significant emission in the shorter wavelengths but virtually everything Because thermal imaging doesn't require any external light, like and it doesn't need to like active illuminators do, it's undefeated in like the underground range. It's also the best choice when there's fog or smoke I am about to walk into and we'll see if I and then you guys can look and see if we can pick me up on - Yeah, I can't see you at all now. (mischievous music) Derek's getting his full workout. - Whew. I had no idea we'd Thermal imaging also sees like objects that have or recently touched by someone's hand. The last advantage of thermal imaging is its unbeatable range, even better than the military We set up a distance test from the tower to compare against the PVS-31As. To the naked eye on a moonless night, this is what someone holding at that distance. This is how it looks through And this is how it looks To get even more subtle and this is what a person checking in those conditions. Totally invisible to the naked eye, discernible through the and perfectly clear through But thermal imaging has It's a digital system with motion delays just Thermal imaging goggles aren't popular because high-quality and too power hungry to be portable. And since they only they can't even see lettering This is looking at it in the infrared. E, F, P, T, O, Z, L, P, E, D. Anything that is visible solely due to the way light reflects off it is invisible to thermal cameras. E, D, F, C. I don't know what that is. Z, F, or Z, P. (bell dinging) Currently there is no one They all have trade-offs delay, light situation, The entire history of night by trying to minimize these trade-offs. The first night vision technology, known as Gen 0, was developed for sniper and the Korean War. They used active infrared illumination, much like the commercial Then Gen 1 night vision was These used basic image intensifier tubes with just a photo cathode and screen. No microchannel plate. They stacked three of making them extremely bulky But the resulting scopes to operate just off light giving them the nickname Starlight. Gen 2 night vision was and added the microchannel plate to the image intensifier tube, increasing sensitivity so in dark conditions, like on This addition also made the allowing the first sets of to be created. The last generation, Gen 3, became available in the late '80s. These changed the photocathode material into the semiconductor gallium arsenide in order to better convert They also coated the microchannel plate with an ion barrier film of the tube from 3,000 to 10,000 hours. Though there hasn't been of night vision goggles in over 30 years, researchers are constantly - Some of the basic research aspects that I can talk about are looking at how to extend the infrared regime of the detectors overall. Looking at areas to have devices that can see farther into the infrared with less noise than what we can today. - How did you get into - I was in the Marine Corps and we still used a similar model as this one right here in That was one of the of why I got into this field. I was using things like this that were good, but not great. You know, they could have been better. We were also using infrared systems that were not good at all. And so kind of using those in the field and feeling like, you know, asking that question to yourself, why is it not better? - And the value of night vision extends far beyond the military. What sort of applications would people use these goggles for? - Search and rescue or places It's too dark to see, and you wanna be able - Thermal imaging has grown with infrared cameras used in everything from firefighting to building inspections, to medical imaging. And the microchannel plate first developed for night vision now sits like the Chandra X-ray Observatory, helping us discover the hidden world beyond what is simply visible by eye. - Wow, that's beautiful. I'm like, there are Okay, I'm good. (laughs) I feel like no one can see but you probably can, if (gentle piano music) (machine whirring and trilling) - Testing this night vision how there is no substitute to truly appreciate new innovations. But you don't have to go all the way to a military base to get - In fact, you can do it from anywhere with this video sponsor, Brilliant. And you can get started for free today. Just go to brilliant.org/veritasium. Brilliant is the best way in everything from technology to math, data science, programming, you name it. Just set your goal, and Brilliant will design And if your goal is keeping Brilliant's latest course, How Large Language Models Work, is the perfect place to start. How Large Language Models Work takes you under the hood of real language models, demystifying technologies like ChatGPT with interactive lessons on everything from how models build vocabulary to how they choose their next word. You'll learn how to tune to your desired flavor of output. And you'll understand why training is everything by comparing models trained on Taylor Swift lyrics and the legalese of big This isn't just another course. It's an immersive AI workshop for you to experience of today's most advanced tool. Beyond their courses on the latest tech, Brilliant has a massive all with that hands-on approach that makes concepts in math, science, and programming incredibly And the best part is you can It's like having interactive lessons about our videos in your pocket. They're always coming out with new courses to cover the latest innovations. So no matter what comes rest assured you'll be able to learn about it right away on Brilliant. To try everything Brilliant has to offer for free for 30 days, visit brilliant.org/veritasium. I will put that link And the first 200 of you to sign up will get 20% off a Brilliant So I wanna thank Brilliant and I want to thank you for watching. Watching. Get it?