My name is Joschka. I've been with the company We are doing today I am of course particularly interested in seeing how the AS 33 is manufactured, on the finished aircraft and then go into production And take a look Especially the carbon fiber parts, of course, And yes, you've already mentioned it, We actually need and 2500 man hours We are very craft-oriented and yes, do good manual work, We are looking at this now. We are now here on a glider, The instruments are installed here. The seat cushions are installed here. The final settings are made here, Now we are at the step before that Before the final assembly, here is an But the drivetrain is the same as for the AS Just right. We are now in the department That's what we call it. So this is where the engines are Wired. And this department also We are doing a test run on the ground here as you have already mentioned, There are of course small airplane So here we see an AS mounted propeller How long does an airplane like this spend It is therefore the case that after painting and we then need them for integration, crimp the plugs and the installation of the motor, then about 5 to 7 days. So it's still time-consuming. in the front area we can already see How long are the batteries? That's about 4.20 meters. yes, the housings are made of That has very good fire protection properties. That's why there's another department, which additionally in case of fire There are degassing openings in the wings, so that any stagnant gas There is a Yes, all the safety aspects of it You are welcome to take a look. I will link this video somewhere above. Yes, we put a lot of effort into this video, And I think, so that you know that you know And we have not We have developed it, This means that extensive tests were carried out, and have tested how it affects And there is a lot of work to be done, Then it's on to the next step. We are We now have one of these Motor pylons from an AS33 or AS34 Me. I would be happy to give it to you. This is actually relatively light. Yes, for the fact that it's metal. Of course you can ask yourself the question Why is it built out of It simply has many advantages for us. On the one hand, of course We are one of the few This means that we have We have the infrastructure for this set up, It is very clear to us that, on the one hand we can build very light constructions. We can realize good force introduction and we can build slim and thin. That would be with carbon fiber in this case simply more complex, more expensive and in the end I think the part There are also little things to save weight. These parts are hollow, for example. That is surprising, these parts are of course optimized. So we also work here and then really put something like that and can of course also gain a lot of experience It is also an advantage that we do use or other providers, construction team, We have very capable people who You have many workspaces here. The question was Or do you also have apprentices here? Because I already had an internship It looked similar at the workbenches Yes, it's great that you asked. So we currently have 13 We train light aircraft builders. We train metalworkers specializing in Vehicle painters and varnishers. So we have a very broad base a lot of fun working in such a team We are now in the shell assembly phase. Here our airplanes are In other words, here come the wings all the individual components together And at the end the result is structurally finished glider. Let's see over here. There are then The aircraft is basically airworthy. Except for the instrumentation and paintwork. Here the airplane spends most of the time, a lot has to be adapted That means roughly in weeks or months? Well, you could say that such a Yes, we have a small series production, you can see quite nicely and completed for the shell inspection. On the right-hand side, And that's the way it is, who each have a portfolio of activities This means that one of them builds chassis and then someone does here in front the assembly And this is how such a product, an airplane, works we see the result. We are already seeing a lot of AS33 We can have a look, I think. Here we are in front of your airplane. That's the thing. Real. It's hard to imagine, Yes, we will do everything we can, to deliver it exactly, Of course, this is still relatively raw, Looks very clean. The fuselage will be assembled further. You can now see that the that now here parts and yes, very, Well, what are the next steps? Uh, us. So now we will be here finish the engine compartment. In the cockpit area we will install the missing control components The control components, they are already installed, if you would do this afterwards Exactly. So it is the case that we also work similar That means we have assemblies, previously manufactured which are then completely integrated into the This means that we have our Carbon fiber and Aramid and then it is already attached to the corresponding levers and the airbrake mount the components at any position, And yes, in the end you can notice this The more precisely this control works, Of course, the handling and what the pilot feels every day, yes exactly. Yes, so there will be something for a few more days to the front. Then there is the shell inspection. Here, too, it is the case that the Take a look at the lever on the ASG29 this is a lever from a simple No, it's simply made from duralumin So, now you can have a look here what that feels like. Yes, this is a milled one. It is a milled aluminum lever, So here we have significantly This means we are more free of play, The pilot feels it at the end, that it feels better. And these are details, are basically not known at all, And that's what we offer our customers. And the stops here, This is now also Well, there are several reasons for that. On the one hand, again the historical reason On the other hand, it has a huge advantage. We adjust it here once and then it stays that way If I have a screw stop, and maybe... What would be the difference to plastic? Oh well. A plastic stop, Integrate structure. Wood has the huge advantage So the material fits relatively well And secondly, we have here rely on aircraft plywood as in the past. You see and these layers can be incredibly So you can do the fine-tuning Exactly. And that's what our craftsmen do Remove tenth by tenth, And that is So here we are shortly before the shell inspection. That means, and upgraded, so that one inspector from the manufacturing company That means, That really So here we are and really check every detail. Assembly, gap dimensions, every screw connection. And now it still works to Maybe adapt something, change something, Yes, it really is like that, In other words, we don't just do things here but of course we are doing here And the difference is quite clear, which of course could fly like this, want to have as a Alexander-Schleicher company even the last bit of I extend the airbrake again Yes, very nice again Yes, so that's already done. Fundamental difference naturally have a airbrakes that We have here too, in terms of accuracy, We have the familiar mechanics here, such an airbrake but in our case it is is easy to handle, And look at this So it really is everything. Yes, exploited and when you see, comes out of this thin profile, technically very sophisticated. It's just getting more and more difficult, Well, I would A border describe in terms of feasibility. our design team really has done a great job and definitely Yes, this is where we are now in front of our AS33 wing mould. Your airplane is being built here. Wow, that's really cool. Now just vacuumed, has been inserted, right? Exactly. So it's one step including sandwich foam also further developed, and we use it to generate and of course Yes, you see, building airplanes is not possible Here is the complete plan are experienced people who really do this In between there are always An inspector also checks here does it all fit? Do the angles fit exactly? The carbon fibers position Are they really at the correct position? So in the rear area we can see We stand And that means here we apply a special paint. On top of the paint we put This is done by hand. Then the sandwich foam is applied These are the top shells for my AS33. This is how they look like. Yours will be born here. Next week. The shells are then probably glued together So this is exactly the form for the AS So in that state This means that the molds are closed. They will then be bolted together, and can then be demolded the following day. and then leave this department where the airplanes then Yes, this is where our airplanes are painted. Yes, most of the time Painting takes this long between 200 and 300 man hours. Well, that's a really big chunk This means that the product comes in like this, the body shell assembly with the base coat, And all our parts, must be temperature treated And of course this also results in Minor surface irregularities and everything is repaired here. Sanded, filled. Then a filler is used An acrylic paint is then applied. The acrylic paint is then Yes, it's done by hand here. Of course we grind But the majority is really manual work really good employees, They look for the shine, They look for uneven spots Not everyone can do that. And we really have Unfortunately, they are all crooked, That is not a straight surface where you can easily use Yes, on the one hand we are concerned with that it looks nice, but on the other hand that we also change the profile, and all our airplanes will be That means, Aluminum templates that we put on and control via the light gap Fill, sand in, so that you can really and also a very consistently high Just as it was designed in CAD that this will end up in the air if you look ahead here, right through to the cockpit area, which is easily enough for a car And we'll revise that again and look, we have a finished one there This is not yet polished and there you feel really no more unevenness. You won't see any orange peel skin. And I can give you the airplane Such devices are of course also Feel here. Ah, everything is perfectly even there. Although there is a color stripe on it. So the transition is embedded. And of course it is a special request, and are happy to offer this to our customers! Even details such as the canopy cut-out, Also the cockpit is Ah the inside also needs to be painted. So that everything looks great. and clean looking. Stefan, so we are finally I hope you enjoyed it? And you also get a bit of the feeling for it, Many steps, a lot of time and that is expensive, even exclusive these days, I also think it's good value for money. We really put a lot of work into it. I hope I liked it very much Yes, thank you very much. Thank you very much