- [Narrator] This is Arne Duncan, the Secretary of Education for seven years during the Obama administration. And this is Oklahoma State Ryan Walters, who supports President-elect to abolish the Department of Education. - I'm gonna close the and move education back to the states. And we're gonna do it fast. - President-elect Trump will not eliminate the Department of Education, and this will be just another like getting Mexico to build a wall. - Look, President Trump has boldest, most conservative this nation's history. - This weaponization of the will just be disastrous. - [Narrator] So why do want to dismantle the And what would that look like? - I think all those federal employees are gonna be fired from their jobs. We're gonna do away with the agency. That building needs to go away. It needs to be something else. - [Narrator] The US the smallest of the has more than 4,400 employees - Education is mostly a But what the Department of Education does is pretty important. - [Narrator] The Department for high poverty K-12 schools and IDEA funding for At the higher ed level, it distributes federal student aid, including loans and Pell Grants. The Office for Civil Rights protecting against - It's fighting for equity, and really driving and scaling innovation. Those are three roles that I - [Narrator] Duncan is now a nonprofit working to - Let's take IDEA very specifically, children with special needs. As you know, historically, those children were actually denied access to going to public schools. And it took the federal and provide access to There are over 7.5 million that receive billions of from the US Department of Education. And guess what? You want - [Narrator] Superintendent Walters says school accountability should shift from the federal government to parents. - There's nobody who or who cares more about their So the more that we empower through transparency and what you're gonna see is all - [Narrator] Trump faces an uphill battle to abolish the Department of Education. It would take an act of Congress or to get rid of any of the programs written into federal law. - I sometimes think of this A soft abolish would be but keeping its various programs and then just sort of to other federal agencies. A hard abolish would be and many or all of its programs. That might be a much tougher and might be a lot more controversial. - This is not a political winner, and they have to be very, very careful. You can lie to parents and maybe get away with it, but if you start hurting their children and you start hurting the children who are already vulnerable, there's gonna be hell to pay politically. - [Narrator] The Conservative Project 2025, which Trump has repeatedly has proposed phasing out Title I funding for low-income students over 10 years and converting other programs to no-strings-attached - President Trump's plan that money could go directly to families to direct those funds. So what you'll see are states states have more power to and then frankly, something we States have more power to to parents - [Narrator] Like President-elect Trump, Walters favor school choice programs, generally meaning funding or scholarships for non-traditional - Critics of school choice basically say it will hurt public schools and drain money from public education. In the most recent election, that had some measure of And in all three states, including in very red voters voted against - [Narrator] Aside from dismantling the Department of Education, Trump has signaled he may the radical left agenda. - We will cut federal funding pushing critical race or other inappropriate racial, onto our children. - They take any three-letter and try and weaponize it. And so much of what they do is they create these false boogeyman and try and create fear. - [Narrator] Earlier this year, the Biden administration for transgender students. - They said boys had to be and boys had to be or they would take the but number two, that they - [Narrator] The Supreme have halted the Biden administration in a number of states. President-elect Trump for religion in schools, including prayer in the classroom. In Oklahoma, Superintendent that schools share a video an Office of Religious and prays for Trump. - I pray in particular and his team as they continue to bring We wanted our teachers we will protect your right to exercise your religious beliefs. - [Narrator] At least seven have said they will not The state's attorney general said the directive for was, quote, &quot;unenforceable.&quot; - Today we purchased over 500 Bibles that will be in the AP across the state. Bible just like this. - [Narrator] The same Bible and selling for $60 per copy. - We must make America pray again. - Trump is a very, very You praise him, you ingratiate And what you're seeing is lots of folks, including the superintendent of Oklahoma, ingratiate themselves and to buy Trump Bibles, which is sort of stunning to me. - So what we wanted was a document that had everything in there. So that's the Bible, the the Declaration of Independence. So the Bible we purchased had all of them. In Oklahoma, we're gonna continue to lead behind President Trump and make sure that his agenda is enacted. - If all you have is people who are, you who are trying to, you know, weaponize and politicize education we're gonna do a grave disservice to our country's children, and to our nation's economy. - [Narrator] Whether Trump pushes through on abolishing the Department of Education may come down to how much pushback he gets from a GOP-controlled Congress. (gentle rhythmic music)