(dramatic music) (phone alarm rings) - Now tell me if this you wake up in the morning, you're comfortable in your bed but there's a a problem. You want a cup of coffee. (dramatic music continues) And this is where the indignity begins. I've gotta dress myself. I've gotta walk down the stairs. I've gotta go to the kitchen And that, frankly, is inconvenient. Now unlike me, maybe you're maybe there's someone in your household willing, competent in making coffee. Thank you. But for the rest of us, there is hope. A company called Joy called The Barisieur and it promises to be the solution to all of our problems. It is an alarm clock, it's a coffee maker, and it's got too many vowels. And I'll tell you all about it, but first I do need to make some coffee. I need to journal, meditate, maybe check my email. (music) (birds chirping) - And now a short ad for Morning Brew. - Now, one of the reasons I'm particularly interested in alarm clocks is that I don't really wanna That's just gonna pull and that's just not the I want to wake up, have some coffee, and when I'm ready, sit It's a free daily newsletter that covers everything you need to know in the world of tech, One thing I really enjoy about it is the way that it's written. It's not dry and dull. It's fun, it's witty. It's so easy to read. And one thing I've really enjoyed recently was a great piece on the in the new film Roadrunner. I've been really enjoying Morning Brew and I think you will too. It's free to sign up. It takes less than 15 seconds. Just click the link down to sign up for Morning Brew. So let's talk through The Barisieur and despite the spelling, despite that second extra I, this is actually how you say it. It's a coffee brewing alarm And I'll talk you through and then we'll talk about Now, the way it makes coffee You put your cold water in here and at the appropriate But because you've got a that steam can't go anywhere. It drives the water then across into the shower head And it'll keep going until this clicks off and stops heating. And it kind of works a Now it all comes to And you know, this you can take off, fill it up with your correct In terms of extras on the unit, this thing swivels, I for putting your coffee And at the front here, you've got this. This is for putting your milk in because this unit actually around it to keep your milk So you can wake up, put your milk in your coffee, if that's your thing and enjoy. And I suppose for convenience, the whole top part of You can take it away and I In terms of the rest of the thing, it's really pretty simple. You've got your alarm clock here. You got your time and you'd set an alarm in a pretty simple way. You do have a make button here that will let you make If you wanted to use and then around on the side, here you've got your dial set the time, set your alarm time, that kind of stuff. Here is your kind of brew adjust dial. And this you can set to have it brew after your alarm goes off or before your alarm I'm kinda surprised there because I would maybe want it to brew, cool down a little bit from the little death of sleep, I'm straight into a cup of coffee that I can drink and enjoy. But five minutes it is as a and then, you know, volume for the alarm. It's really a pretty simple thing overall. On the front, there is You've got your little ground coffee bin, if you wanna use it for I'm not sure I would recommend Capacity wise, you're for this little cup of coffee. And that's the limit. Now, some of you, of a certain age, might find this extremely familiar. Let me show you what I mean. This is a Goblin Teasmade. Now this was very popular in And as you might from the name didn't make coffee, it made tea. And it did it in an identical way. You had your alarm clock at the front, on the back here, a little kettle, the same mechanism drove the boiling water across into your tea you woke up and you had a cup of tea. Now your milk was a bit trickier then, you didn't have but yet you had a cup of tea, you weren't complaining. But these things were not Let's talk about the price for this thing. It's PS350, which is quite a lot of money. Is it worth it? Well, I don't think I can say without putting it to the test and so, you know, come bed And in the morning, I will awake to a delicious cup of hot coffee. (movie plays) - Sir, I'm going to I've prepared some of the Rao recipe water you enjoyed the other day. And I have ground some of the lactofermented caturra as well. - Very good. - Have a nice evening. (soft music) (machine beep) (steam) (water bubbles) (alarm buzzes) We've got coffee. Now, the problem is, even though I set that timer to be early, that's too hot to drink. Now, fortunately I thought ahead. I didn't want milk. I have my morning turmeric Oh, why? So let's talk about the The kind of weird thing to me is it doesn't start brewing earlier, right? Like I would want this to start brewing probably 10 minutes 'cause it takes about five minutes to brew and it seems a little bit redundant to have an alarm afterwards. It beeps five minutes before you start, you know, the alarm goes off, when it starts brewing and it's noisy. So you're gonna wake up. I don't have high, high because the way that it brews, I mean, that's not an ideal It's just very much, here's It really, really fills the cone. You've got like a big wall So I'm not anticipating the It could be much better than it is. It's kind of disappointing in that regard. It's not something I would buy as a dedicated brewer it I say it may not be the best that doesn't mean it's a It's a good cup. It's just not outstanding and incredible just because of the way that it brewed. And you have to wonder It's pretty much gonna be for the one coffee drinker in the bedroom, because if there's two of you in bed and just one of you has Unless, you know, the other person doesn't drink coffee or something, or you're buying two and that PS700 on alarm clocks that make coffee. 'Cause this is not a lot of coffee, right? Like that's a little cup of coffee to me. It's not like a big cup. I'm not sharing this with anybody. But if you are the kind of human, that cannot function without coffee, like you wake up and you are broken and you just need some sort Then maybe, assuming you're in the bedroom and you have PS350 to spend on a clock So you're after someone but isn't too fussed about I dunno, and has a big budget. It's just for me, it's It does look nice. Like it is kind of fun. If you're not used to this it is a fun little experience. It does look kind of cool. It feels well-made, it So I don't feel like, you know, it should be a quarter of the price. It feels well-made, it feels expensive. Now I'm not gonna keep I'm gonna give this away to They give me a budget every and review them and give Plus, I think my butler has potential. But now I want to hear from you. Do you have one of these? Did you buy it? Did you back it on Kickstarter? Did you use it every day since you got it? Or has it been an occasional kinda thing? Do you use it for a while Do you enjoy the coffee you get out of it? Are you so desperate for coffee that you cannot imagine before having had coffee? I wanna hear from you, down in the comments below, but for now, I wanna say and I hope you have a great day.