You fat girl! What did you do? Reem! The shop owner will choose me to be the shop manager. If I became the manager, you will listen to everything I say. May Allah guard you, Ghazel. We will see. Hello. Hi beautiful, welcome to our store. God! These clothes are beautiful. Please, are you searching for clothes to gift them to someone? No I'm searching for clothes for me. Sweetheart, we don't so large sizes cloths. Reem, talk to this huge girl, I will be right back. Don't be upset my sweetheart, I'm sorry for what just happened to you. It is all right sweetheart, no harm done. Come with me, I will show you clothes that will fit you. We have dresses in all sizes. We have jeans, shirts and jackets. Please, could you get me jeans and shirt. Okay, I will be glad to do so. This one. This jeans will fit you. It will look amazing on you. Thank you, I like it, give it to me. Take this shirt, it will look very beautiful. Sweetheart. Do you have a fitting room so I can try these clothes? Of course, come with me. This is the fitting room. What are you doing? I want to try these clothes so I can get them. Of course these clothes won't fit you, you will always tear them apart. Ghazel, what are you saying? The clothes are her size and they will fit her. Even if, if you ruin them you will pay for them. Sweetheart, never mind what she is saying. You are beautiful and these clothes will fit you. My sweetheart, you are very respectful. Go on and try the clothes on. Wow! I like it, do you have a mirror? Of course, come with me. Check yourself out. God, this clothes look nice on me. You fat girl! What did you do? I'm sorry, I'm sorry. You made a mess out of the place and doing the clothes. Ghazel, there's no problem, I will sort the clothes out. Yes, there is a problem, get out of my store you elephant! Shame on you, you hurt her feelings. Keep quiet, it is none of your business. Listen to me, go on and sort the clothes out. I will tell the shop owner so she will fire you. The poor girl, I'm very sad for her. The shop owner will come today and make me the manager. Hello girls. Hello boss. I like you, today you look very beautiful. Thank you, that is nice of you. Before I choose the one to become the manager, I would like you to meet someone. Okay, okay. Please come in. Hello beautiful. Do you know who this girl is? No. This girl visited us at the store. This is my daughter. -Your daughter? I will tell you the story of how I created this store. My daughter used to suffer from obesity. When I used to take her to close stores, the sales women used to laugh at her and not help her. Do you have clothes my size? You! Get away from here, we don't have any. Get out of here! Get how to be here! We will never come back to you again. So I decided to open my own clothes store and sell all sizes in it and I named it after my daughter Shfa. So that's my daughter and anyone else no matter their size can have a place to shop in. Of course, of course. And this is the whole story. Wow! Your story is beautiful and successful. Shfa, if you need anything from me just let me know. No I don't need anything from you, thank you. Did you only now know that she was my daughter? No, I knew before. By the way, my daughter told me everything you did to her. The manager of the store will be Reem! Reem , you deserve to be the manager of the store because you treat people with respect. Thank you. You are welcome. Reem, you treated me well congratulations for becoming the manager. My sweetheart Shfa, you are a very nice girl. Reem the manager! If I'm not the manager, then I will quit this job. You are already fired from this job because of the way you treated Shfa and your bad manners. Get out of my shop! Reem, Shfa will help you manage the store. Yay! I am certain that you will be successful in this shop because you treat people well. Of course. Let's go organize the store. Let's go. In the name of Allah the most merciful the most compassionate. &quot;let not a people ridicule [another] people; perhaps they may be better than them&quot; my sweethearts we need to respect everyone no matter their shapes. That's right.