The Islamic State made it very clear, they fight eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth. - What do you think of the terrorist attacks that happened in Europe? - Bullshit question! Do you feel sorry for the French, for the Germans? Do you think you don't kill lots of people? Do you think the Islamic state is just going to give you a box of chocolates? Jihadists who don't regret anything, I met several of them in Syria in December. For Brut, I was able to enter a Kurdish prison where 5,000 suspected Islamic State fighters are being held. In March 2019, the Islamic State lost the Battle of Baghuz Fawqani. This defeat marked the end of Daesh-controlled territories in Syria, but a major question has arisen since then: what to do with the jihadists who were arrested and their families? We're being asked to justify actions that we didn't commit, to answer for certain crimes that we also didn't commit. If we're going to be forced into a judicial spiral that will do us even more harm than these 5 years of war, we don't want to go back to France. I was ISIS, I had the ideology. I was in the movie, thinking we were going to take over the world. Of course I regret it. I got really brainwashed. These prisoners are very dangerous. They're like a bomb waiting to explode. We don't know when it'll go off. They're waiting for the slightest opportunity to escape. The Kurdish special forces have given me two conditions to enter this ultra-supervised and overcrowded prison: that I don't film the outside of the building for security reasons and that I don't talk to the inmates about current events. To avoid an uprising, they still haven't been told that Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi, the former head of Daesh, was killed by the Americans. Syria - in the Jihadist prison As you can see, all the rooms are crowded. There is hardly any room to move around. There is hardly any daylight in there. The only daylight that comes through is that little window up there. Those who were imprisoned nine months ago never came out of this room. They spend all their time in here. What I'm pointing at with my finger is the cell's toilet, and over there on the right is where they clean themselves. It seems like they use water cans to wash themselves There's a very strong smell coming out of the cell, it's barely breathable. I'm allowed to interview a Daesh Jihadist, he'll be here in a few seconds. Sit down! What do you think of the terrorist attacks that happened in Europe? - And what do you think? When the coalition bombs, they just bomb fighters? When you're constantly bombarding a group of people, don't expect no retaliation, it's going to happen. - Have you seen the killings of western journalists? They were beheaded on video by British fighters. - As I said, for me killing or beheading is something gruesome to me, I don't like it, OK? But if it's a judgement that's passed by one of the judges of the Islamic State, I might not like it, but who am I to go challenge the Islamic State? I can tell you a lot of stuff, but, at the same time, I'm risking my health and my safety here. I can't express myself fully. If I start saying certain things, there is a translator here who will start And once you're gone, they're going I can tell you more but I don't want to get in trouble. Just so that you understand the situation, in the room there is me and my camera, but there is also the head of the prison and several members of the Kurdish special forces. And yet very quickly, the British jihadist openly attacked his jailers and denounced his conditions of detention. I've been sitting in this shithole prison for a very long time. Everybody in this room is desperate to get out of this prison because this prison is not what they claim to be. It's very severe, people are dying here every day, lack of medication, one guy died here yesterday. Everybody just wants to get far away from these people because you're not really getting your basic human rights. Nobody wants to be a captive like this. The way they're treating the prisoners here is not good. The head of the prison is a member of the Kurdish special forces and obviously he didn't have the same speech as the British jihadist I just interviewed. The British ISIS member that I interviewed told me that he would get beaten if he told the truth about this prison. - No, that's not true. For one simple reason/ If we do this, we become like them. Here, we treat them like human beings, like prisoners. They're vulnerable in our hands. That's why we don't do this. Our ethics and humanity don't allow us to hurt them. These prisoners are very dangerous. They're like a bomb waiting to explode. We don't know when it'll go off. They're waiting for the slightest opportunity to escape. There have been several mutiny attempts in the last few months. In this footage we can see a common technique, one of the jihadists lures the Kurdish guards by pretending to die. And when the doors open, the prisoners attack. As a result, you have to be extremely careful everywhere in the prison, especially near the hospital that I was able to visit and where almost 300 prisoners are crammed. So now I'm going to the hospital. Can I go? I always have to let the guard go first. Right now I can't go any further. They explained that the further you go, the harder it'll be to go back to the front door if there's any trouble. Many of them are wounded because of the war and many are sick. They're being treated here. There are also many who have shards in their bodies and we operate them. Others have illnesses such as fever, colds, etc.... We treat them here. There are also a lot of people who are extremely thin, very weakened, so they must be malnourished or even severely malnourished, acute, meaning they are clearly undernourished. There are a lot of gunshot wounds in this hospital, I see a lot of people with external fixators wounded arms, wounded legs. He clearly has a war wound, he must've been shot in the leg. There is also a very, very strong smell, that's why we have to wear masks because there's a bit of a stench I don't know if they can take a shower, but I don't think so. They only have one toilet even though they're 300 people in this room. In the middle of all these sick people, I was able to interview Abdallah, a young 24-year-old Belgian jihadist who has been detained here for 9 months and who joined the Islamic State in 2014. Do you have any regrets coming to Syria? - I don't regret coming to Syria because I came to help, like for example when the coalition came to help the Kurds. Everywhere, people want to help, bad guys, good guys. Of course in the beginning I was ISIS, I had the ideology, I was in the movie, thinking we were going to take over the world. ISIS propaganda, like you know, they say it's very beautiful, come and you can live, and everything is OK. And then when come, if you don't fight for example, they're going to kill you or put you in prison. If you don't do this, you can't argue with them. If they have a rule, for example the attacks in Belgium, if you argue with them, it's not good, or it's bad. You can't speak out. - What do you think of the terrorist and they were targeting innocent people? - In Baghouz, I bured 4, 5 babies. I saw with my own eyes hundreds of women with no legs, with no arms, with no legs. Killing innocent people, from both sides, I'm against it, it's bad. Of course it's very bad what happened to the Belgiums in the airport, to the French. I regret coming to the war, and fight and destroy my body, my life. I left my mother. Of course I regret. I was young, naif, being indecisive, I was dumb, believing anything. Al-Hawl refugee camp I'm in the huge Al-Hawl refugee camp where the families of the Islamic state live. There are mainly women and children. 70,000 people live here in extremely precarious conditions. Behind me is the market for foreign women and their families. Here is where they buy clothes and food. And to buy all this, there is a shop where they can withdraw money sent to them from abroad. - Hello. - Are you French? - I came here to meet French women. - Are you French? - Yes, I am French. How old are you? Where do you come from? - We are between 20 and 35 years old. - We come from everywhere in France. - Between Paris and Marseille. - How are you living here? How's the sanitary situation? - We have a hard time warming up, because it's very very cold here, we are surrounded by bits of fabric and they don't give us any food or they give us food that gives diarrhea for weeks. - Not many humanitarian organizations come here. - There are actually no organizations. We have no doctor, no hospital. - And what were you doing in the Islamic State? Did you have a job? - I was at home, we were at home. - We were housewives. That's it. - Having kids every year. - Cleaning, cooking, the life of a housewife. - A woman actually. Honestly it was good, we lived well. We had our homes. We each had our apartment, we lived with our husbands, our kids. There were parks, hospitals, schools. It was a normal life, like in France except that we could live our islam in peace. It's only when they started attacking Raqqa that people began to flee and that we really felt the war. As many jihadistes, these French woman from the Paris region and the south of France continue to defend their way of life under the Islamic State's rule. But facing my camera, they also criticized Daesh. I don't every want to be associated with them, they don't represent me and I don't represent them. I don't want to be associated with their ideology because it isn't Islam for me. I am a Muslim and I will be until the day I die... - For you, what wasn't... - Well the suicide attacks, they legalized them even though they were prohibited, war conditions aren't supposed to be like that. They spread huge propaganda about deheading Seeing someone getting beheaded isn't natural. It isn't natural, of course it affects us. - It's horrible! Of course it's shocking when you see that. - France has also done it. Of course our speech isn't very credible given the situation. Everybody believes we have the same ideology. - In life, we do bad things and we do good things. Right now we didn't do such great... - No, the only bad thing we did is... - Do you regret coming? - I don't regret coming when I look at my son because that was destiny, but yes I regret believing them. I regret believing them. I blame them, I'm not a repentant person, I don't regret what I did, I accept it. But I'm happy with the journey I've had because I've learned a lot. - Have you tried to leave the Islamic state? - Of course ! Who hasn't? The truth is, who hasn't? - There was no food, we had no diapers, it was cold. - Even ignoring that, we tried to leave because it was no longer possible. - It was no longer possible, it wasn't a life. - It wasn't like in the beginning when they guaranteed our safety, when we lived in peace. Even they had become completely unfair in their way of doing things. With us they were... they'd become our oppressors too, more than the coalition. In the end, we had no allies left, so we really wanted to leave. But unfortunately, they'd cut us off, they wouldn't let us out. If we tried to get out, they would put us in jail. I was in prison because we wanted to leave, well, until we found ourselves here. We're being asked to justify actions that we didn't commit, to answer for certain crimes that we also didn't commit, and serve a sentence in France, meaning being seperated from our kids, which is something we can't accept. We're totally rejecting this because we didn't commit anything, we didn't do anything. And if we can go back and live a normal life with our families, there's no problem. But if we're going to be forced into a judicial spiral that will do us even more harm than these 5 years of war, we don't want to go back to France. The return of Daesh's women and children in France is a very slow process for the time being. And all of them will have to face justice when they come back.