Create the event just by opening a store, only a few brands in the world That morning, in Bordeaux, hundreds of people erected right in the city center. At the foot of this tower, here is Tom, Since 10 am, This is the new store like those from Apple. In the toy sector, -We've been waiting a long time for this For him, -Welcome to Lego. -The new playground spread over two floors, filled with bricks and boxes. -What did you choose? -Machines that are built A simple brick, which is what small builders for 60 years. -You have a small heart. -Obviously, that day, even the oldest children -Me, I've been a fan since childhood. -I'm 24, but there's no age to play Lego -Play at all ages and at all prices. Less than EUR10 for figures or for small boxes from the classic range. Up to several hundred euros or those from the Disney The most beautiful piece even takes you at over EUR430. -Do you like it a lot? You don't have to tell mom, -That's also the strength of Lego. A passion that is passed on In a single day, more than 4000 people passed through overheated. -Yes? - As usual, -Okay, so it's bugging. -But everyone left with figures and boxes, in the pretty yellow bags, consolidating Globally, Today, with its 12,600 employees, The world's number one toy manufacturer. And one of the most profitable -I have to be super smart! -Lego an empire More than a construction game, brick has become a symbol of creativity, used in schools, and even within large companies. To think that you can do including inventing intelligent robots. It's even art today. These pieces of plastic are exhibited A consecration after having nevertheless ten years ago. So, what are the recipes for its rebirth? What alliances did the Danish group form, to become the children's hero again? -Everybody relax, I'm here.- Batman! -We went to Denmark, his native land, at the heart of the Lego machine -It's such a special material. There is no other person in the world All around the toy planet, we went to meet his fans. Children are at the heart of the game. But some of them got big. Amateurs, true ambassadors of the brand, at the initiative of unexpected events. -It's marketing -Behind the smiling giant, which can also act mercilessly increasing the number of lawsuits. -It started in 98, until today. It's 2015. -I'm not done with you yet. -We're going to kill you! -Between fairy tale Here is the story of the alchemist and become one of the most loved but also sometimes hated. As in any great saga, The Lego one starts in a small, in the middle of the fields. You can't miss Billund, However, nothing sets it apart of the province of Jutland. A few streets to traditional houses, not too stressed. However,Billund is also the second largest after Copenhagen. An airport built for the managers that travel the globe. Because Billund is Lego Town. Simply follow the guide But strangers are quickly spotted, by the black police cars When approaching the seat, -His name is V-I-N-C-E-N-T. For which media do you work for? -M6? OK Have a good day! -The name is listed. We have our 48 hour pass, to go behind the scenes of Lego. Well framed. -For the production plant, -Yann will be our sherpa. The jacket is rather light to secure us. It is especially marked in the middle At the factory, Yann is the only one He takes us into the engine room. It's the heart of Lego that beats A heart powered by these pellets, similar to coffee beans. -It's the raw material 80 tons of it -It's Lego's number one expense item. The plastic bill But afterwards, it almost sinks by itself. -These pellets are inserted Here is the mold. When it closes, It's closed for ten seconds. -The bricks are in the bin. Out of a million pieces produced, on average, only 18 fail quality control, carried out in the laboratory. Lego's secret -The precision is It's ten times thinner than a hair. You have to be able to assemble I can shake, -There are 760 spread over twelve rooms. Two people per workshop Some are worth EUR300,000. They cut 3 million bricks per hour, of 3000 different shapes. When a bin is full, It's still robots that pick up the ante. Night and day. Exemplary employees. Do not disturb. -They're good boys. Ah, sorry! -These brick boxes regardless of the range. From Star Wars, They are stored in these huge hangars, 24 meters high. Rowed, listed by color and size, Up to 1 billion bricks can be stored here. But with Christmas just a few weeks away, Lego is on the verge - 50% of our sales are made in preparation for Christmas. There is a risk of breakage. Demand was stronger this time We will try to do everything we can -At the moment, hundreds of cash registers Head to assembly plants in Eastern Europe. A relocation to Hungary Boxed packages are more labour intensive. This time there are men The same offshore packaging plants for the American market. In total, Lego machines produce sold in 140 countries. To get from Earth to the Moon, Never its founding father, Couldn't have imagined with a simple brick. In 1932, this carpenter, supports his family by making wooden toys. Like ladybugs, monkeys or ducks. His small business, he calls it Lego, From the Danish song leg godt, Everything is imagined 80 years later, the memory of Lego right in the city center. -Hello, welcome -Christian is the group's historian. The house is not open to the public, In the shop window, But also this yo-yo, Lego's first big hit. Ole Christiansen sold thousands of them, until the fashion effect is over. -Ole was left with a huge stock He couldn't afford It was expensive to make. -That's when Ole Christiansen -He cut the yo-yo in half. He made wheels out of them He reused everything. -It's very smart. -Build other toys with the same parts, The Lego spirit has just been born. But it is Godfried, He is developing this self-locking brick, for which he filed patent in each country -It was in 1958. This is what allowed us You know, the famous Brick Lego It's the most important thing -The construction game goes into homes. And on TV, with the first ads, Building your universe to tell stories. The same recipe goes through the years. -This clock is lagging. Quickly! To the hospital! -All these stories over 50 years, It's the treasure of Lego. It is kept in the secret room The Memory Lane cellar, the Lego memory. It includes a copy of each box -There are over 6,000 boxes here. -It's the dream of collectors. -One of the oldest that we have here is, It's from 1966. -It is also a source of inspiration Listening to Christian, when you leave to board the shelves. -So look somewhere. Look, look at that. It was one of my favorite boxes I spent so many hours playing with it. Shooting with cannons is just great. - The family continues to grow. Each year, 60% of the range is renewed, Even if it means pushing the walls. -The size of the boxes compared to what we saw -For 40 years, However, at the turn of the 2000s, On its radar screens, The group does not see From home game consoles Kids prefer joysticks to small bricks. -Almost everyone has one. -In toy shops, including by other storytellers Or Mattel and his Barbie. Even the six Legoland theme parks, no longer make a recipe. At the head of the group, Then rely on diversification. He also wants with a design It opens up other ranges. High-speed, But far from his basic job, The group is going to lose money. 100 million euros in deficit in 2000. Nearly 200 million, three years later. The Lego galaxy is in perdition. So, in 2004, the company is handing over the reins, to a young CEO Jorgen Vig Knudstorp, aka JVK, At 36 years old It organizes the return to basics, brick by brick. -That's the Lego brick. It's such a special material. There is no other person in the world That's what rebirth is. Relaunch the group on this simple idea. -For the CEO, it is necessary the essence of the original game. -Here are two examples. That's what we did In this fire truck, The aim was to attract children Frankly, if they don't want to build, It's like buying a ready-made truck. Here, it's a fire truck, designed in 2005. There are a lot more rooms. We are back as close as possible -More pieces There are practically only classic bricks, While the previous one planned only for this universe, like this buffalo guard, too expensive. As soon as it arrived,JVK therefore Ten years later, increased to nearly 4 billion euros. So how did he relaunch Behind its walls, 200 creators tasked Forbidden to enter. Industrial secret. To meet one of them, Pierre is from Quebec. He is part of the new generation seven years ago. He came with his Lego to a studio where a designer office is recreated. -So, over here, The white bricks, the red bricks. -In these drawers, -Here, the more specialized bricks, with for example the brick relief. -These are the tools of his imagination. -Classic pieces. In all, -3500 is half as low as ten years ago. For the new boxes, You have to do as much as possible That is the first golden rule. Pierre works on the City range, Like trains. The construction sites. - I'm the helicopter. -Or the police. A timeless range. However, The second golden rule for boosting sales. - I brought you my latest creation, which is a fire truck. -The eternal fire truck. It looks like the previous one. The difference is in the accessories. -Now we have the flames, It's the firemen,we want to switch it off. Like that, that's it. -Fire, a new room, but a part to make money on other ranges. It is found in the dinosaur universe, or even in that of mangas. To reduce costs, each new product This is the third golden rule that Pierre Lego has yet another tip Beyond her native land, some people are looking for ideas almost free of charge across the planet. Bristol, England, An idea has sprung up here, to make a place Tom Poulsom is not here For him, no Star Wars or superheroes. He is very interested in a box Brick birds. - I just wanted to come see -In our store, We sold almost everything. We hope to have more stock for Christmas, because people are going to ask us. -It's good to hear that. You're going to laugh, - Oh, I was thinking good. -Tom Poulsom is not a designer, He is one of the lucky ones to be the subject of an official box. Nine ideas like these over the past four years. They're called Lego Ideas. -It's great. I feel really proud. This is not what you usually see at Lego. Houses, cars, buildings, airplanes. This is something linked to nature. And it's nice to see it built in Lego. -It's at home, in his small apartment, that Tom is satisfying his passion. He has already built over 90 birds, but the one that changed everything -It's this little guy I was gardening. I was taking a break, Five seconds later, It was a revelation for me. -After building the birds out of bricks, Tom shows them on the Lego Ideas site, a platform where you can submit The first step for the gardener, Gather 10,000 supporters around the world. The project is then studied by the brand, who reserves the right Tom picked up the precious sesame, with a simple retouch of Danish designers. -The difference is for the paws. They didn't want to. Because it should only be used They put these little clips instead. -Hi, how are you? -This whole Lego adventure -How was your day? Did you have fun? -He even met his wife She fell under the spell of these birds. He cultivates his passion for bricks -Mini figures? -Obviously very proud to have a -Which is your favorite? -The robin. Because every time you go to school, -Do your friends know - I told them but they don't believe me. -For lack of fame, Tom got some financial benefits Because for each idea produced, Lego donates 1% of sales to its creator. - After three months of sales, I just got an email from Lego. For the first quarter of 2015, -That is EUR14,000. -It's the biggest check Obviously, So, we had a great vacation this year. -A trifle for Lego which, for his part, Pocket EUR1,400,000 on this product alone Picking good ideas from everywhere to win the competition between toy makers. Over the past four years, The yellow figure knocked over Hasbro, Then Mattel and his Barbie, But then, by what magic trick, Did the Danish giant manage to become Porte de Versailles, in Paris. One of the biggest toy fairs 175,000 people flock to the aisles. Two star stands, On one side, the Barbie bus On the other hand, boys under the age of twelve. Three years ago, Lego decides to attack Mattel He is launching a new range, Lego Friends. Female characters, houses, animals, and especially a wider color palette. Girls love it. -You can exchange their outfits, -A bit like Polly Pockets is that it? -Polly Pockets are worse. Polly Pockets cannot be built -According to Stephane Knapp, this new collection fills a big gap, that prevented the empire from expanding. -We had developed Star Wars, Ninjago, We had to offer The girls were playing but a more feminine universe was missing. What they called their Lego, and not those of their brothers. This change means more feminine figures. Little girls wanted to identify than a more square Lego figure, like the ones we had historically. -Successful bet. This range is now But there is another strategic shift, that the brand has been able She has made herself visible First on the Internet Or on television with the Ninjago cartoon. Even better, last year, Lego has gone to conquer Hollywood, with the movie La Grande Aventure. It's the jackpot. Cost 57 million euros, Seven times as much. To establish himself The Danish firm Batman, Spiderman, Dozens of superheroes These are called licenses. The Danish giant is partnering like Warner or Disney, whose universe he recreates And the one that stands out is Star Wars. The sure force But the force Because licensing This can be seen that we submitted to Jorgen Knudstorp. In particular, the fees paid for licences. -There, these rights tripled -That's right, If you look at the global turnover of 2008 You see that it tripled. It follows the business curve. For us, there are two types of licenses. First, there's Star Wars, long stories. They have existed for decades. Then there are the more ephemeral ones, which follows a series of movies. It's more fleeting. And others, like The Simpsons, The aim is to always introduce new worlds, and to stay on track. -These ephemeral licenses In 2013, Lego bet on the movie A Disney western As a result, for Lego sets inspired by the movie. like the Far West trains or the Saloons, all removed from sale after one year. A fiasco. So, this year, the Danish band prefers with Star Wars. Space soldiers could drive up sales. The Star Wars range could account A few days before the release The shops are in the starting blocks. Boulogne-Billancourt, 7 am. Today, in this big toy store, It's one of the big Christmas arrivals. -What are you going to get? Star Wars? -For the occasion, the marketing director made the move. -It will b -His concern, Make sure Lego and Star Wars -Otherwise you are densifying here. -Here, the Danish brand A whole shop dedicated well placed at the entrance. It is no accident. -Lego, in a store like ours, that's 10% of turnover. It's an important range. Beyond that, Customers, spontaneously, satisfy their first need. Then, they will be able to discover, other products, - So it's hard for competition to exist. Playmobile is located As for the direct challenger to Lego, it must be content However, they are associated Lego takes everything in its path, despite very high prices. -The average price of a toy We are definitely above. At the same time, today, our customers, by the appeal they have of this brand, Show us that price is not an obstacle. -The average retail price at Lego is EUR24, That is EUR5 more than the average for toys. But why such a difference? On these price issues, The kings of Brick have put up So we bought The police station, and the Star Wars X-Wing, Both at the same price, EUR69.95. We wanted to know when we buy these boxes. We went to interview Christian Taillard, a former executive On these two boxes, and the share of distributors. Lego only gets a third of the money back, That's around EUR23 on each box. - Out of these 23EUR, It breaks down into, A third for the Lego brand future investments and for shareholders. A third party in marketing, A third on manufacturing The box, the instructions inside, -Both boxes are at the same price However, on one of them, that Lego must assume. -What's going to cost Lego: since it is a registered trademark 18% are donated to Disney directly, over the entire cost of the product. -Last year, Legoa spent 2 billion crowns, or 270 million euros, for licensing fees, to Disney or Warner for the most part. This represents half So, to offset these costs, -Here, one, two, three, Here one, two, three figures, A figurine is expensive. In fact, we're winning prizes compared to pay for the StarWars license Then, Moreover, it can be seen in terms There's no need to go look underneath. There are more things Indeed, there are about 150 rooms apart, between the Star Wars box It's about that number of pieces apart, that Lego succeeds -That's how, even with more Lego knows how to remain very profitable. On its turnover, the group therefore spends 33% 33% in overhead and marketing costs, including licensing fees. Finally, in the last third, Lego manages to generate a rate comparable to the luxury sector. Despite everything, it remains an enigma. Why, with such margins, Doesn't Lego have more rivals It's in Vancouver, Canada, that we find the only competitor Best-Lock, a low-cost challenger mainly in Auchan or Carrefour. His boss is Thorsten Geller. He has been trying to hunt on Lego - If you are interested, Our warehouse is -Today, he is approaching who only sells Danish brick. -We sell the little one for $20. The big ones are $85. -That $20 one? Give me the Terminator. Do you see that one? It's a bit smaller, but it's $1. -$1? That's really the power of marketing. -Yes, but Terminator is a name -Thorsten Geller got into brick but still just as difficult against the Danish group. -That's our Stargate box. We've been working with this franchise It's about science fiction. -Is it your own Star Wars? -You can say it like that. -But to confront Lego Thorsten Geller learned it the hard way. As soon as his company was founded, Lego accuses him in court even though they have been He won his case over the brick, but now he has to defend himself in Like two drops of water, -They have a license for their figures, but it meant to say that Stand on it. They're now saying that the figurine is in itself -If the certificate is technical, -The object is protected for 18 years. -If it's artistic? -In this case, Obviously, the difference is huge We don't want anything from them. We want our company to be able So many people can make bricks. So why can't we be there? -If Lego won this case, Thorsten Geller wouldn't be able for at least 50 years. For him, that Lego succeeds in stifling A height, because he believes that the origin Lego would have copied an existing model. -These are the first KiddiCraft One dates from the 1940s And inside, they're the same. It's all the same. The same colors, the same little bricks. -The box on the left was created who started his own toy company, Its aim is to awaken young children It was in 1947 that he had the idea with eight studs on the top Lego sold its first plastic brick -A company manufacturing from Great Britain, came to Denmark, to Billund. She showed Lego the bricks made Lego asked these people -Was that before Legone produced -Absolutely. -Are you sure? -100% safe - On the Danish giant's side, we sweep Their argument: the bricks of with Lego as well as with Kiddicraft. For the Danes, only the model with the famous tubes underneath. -This brick is the invention of Lego, because we added tubes inside. Without tubes, that allows it to hold together well. That's the thing. -And the brick from before? -There were a lot of versions, -It's like there's no debate anymore. -Thanks a lot. -If the brand also feels untouchable, Maybe it's because she created an unparalleled phenomenon. This year Lego is the most powerful brand according to the Brandz ranking. She has just dethroned Ferrari mainly thanks to his unwavering connection From the headquarters in Billund, Lego radiates brought together in associations All ready to get involved. You'll see how the Danish giant in order to strengthen its image, better than with big marketing campaigns. Frederic is one of them. At the wheel of his truck, Like that day, in Auxerre. -It's a very stressful day, We start very early. As long as everything has not gone up, We know that the audience will arrive everything has to be as good as possible. -If he's stressed, This is because he has all made of bricks. -We're going straight home with the truck. -It will be in this big hall. It is 7 am. It is with his truck -Hi David! -Are you alright? -Here we go again for a day. -David and Frederic met Everyone presented their buildings. But together, they see bigger. This morning, there are dozens And even scaffolding. -What is it for? You can well imagine that a structure -And all this for a single construction, Listed by numbers, like in a big Lego box. Frederic is a cop. David, roofer by training. -In five hours, it has to be up. -Top time to tackle a monument. The Eiffel Tower. 150,000 pieces And a colossal budget. -There, we exceeded EUR30,000 worth -EUR30,000, the price of a beautiful car that does not exist at Lego. It took four months to gather the pieces, At Lego, But also on the Internet, David and Frederic buy That's how they manage Like the other exhibitors, who are gradually arriving They also devote their time Richard, a computer scientist by life, -I have a castle here. It's a reproduction Neuschwanstein Castle -For this castle, -It's going to be an order, - It's the low end, As for this station, quite fragile. -It holds up. Do not touch too much, -It's the last madness DeLaurent, -This year, I did a lot, -That is to say? -I must be at over EUR2,000 this year. -Lego addicts, They plunged back, adults. They're called AFOLs, They are a legion. Their contagious passion without the brand having The next morning, But walkers will prefer to spend It's 10 am, the doors are open. We come as a family Ready to pay EUR5 at the entrance. -Good morning ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to Festi Briques 2015, in Auxerre. -Around the Eiffel Tower, Cities in miniature. Amusement parks. Or concert halls. A trip to the North Pole -There's your arctic base there, - Like Noah, who came -I can build all that! -Would you be able to do it? -It's really cool. -In the aisles, -It's cool, it brings back memories. -Me I would like all Legos. -This large Auxerre hall for the world of brick and mini-figures. Exhibitions like this, only in France. Thousands of people march there. However, Lego does not organize them. -We're going to put more emphasis on you. -It's Jean-Gerald maneuvering. If he wants to highlight the raffle, It's because the whole organization He and his association took care to create the event. -How much is the budget? Everything combined, the room, -And it's without a net. It must have at least 4000 visitors Because behind the scenes, is kept to a strict minimum. It all fits in this little office. Some game boxes offered by Lego They come directly from Denmark, for a total value of EUR1,400. -For Lego, it's a beautiful window -Surely, yes. It is clear It's the work of 6 to 8 months. And then it's true that it's colossal. It's a small drop of water, but It's always better than nothing. -But discreetly the number one toy The Danish giant has his eyes everywhere. The man sticking his head into the aisles, is one of the brand's ambassadors William scrutinizes all the buildings, The most talented creators -I call them the guardians of the temple. Because the people who are here, are the last to demonstrate with Lego products. -Infinite creations. The best commercial -It's a boon for the maker, to have so many potential customers, who finally come to discover the brand, -William is not an employee Just compensated EUR2,000 per year, like the 200 other ambassadors appointed He is a web designer in life. He maintains a blog dedicated read by 300,000 visitors per month. A blog that has a double advantage It presents all its novelties, without it seeming to be initiating it. Then,it relays all events and exhibitions, To keep the flame going, nothing better than putting one like our Eiffel Tower. -Does it deserve a place on the blog? -Yes, that deserves it. I wanted to see it in person Because it's not worth posting photos without having felt anything at least, or to have felt very small next door. -A little boost, that could be seen all the way to Denmark. It's David's dream, Because Lego promises its fans Offer them a title that allows you At the bottom of an industrial zone, Georges saw his life change thanks He has a golden job, In the world, there are only A title that allows you to win contracts And to found, -There, we pack the harp for a history exhibition, on the period of the Second French Empire. -This Lego harp is a contract for Georges's company. -The strings are present. Unfortunately, it doesn't make a sound. It's a perfect copy but not that perfect. You can't play music on it. -In less than a year, with his two employees, he has produced whether he's renting or selling from Lego, but also to EDF, This whole adventure started last year, when he was spotted by the brand -It was a city of 30 square meters, which was set up in the Salon d'Honneur I was a simple enthusiast his free hours, on weekends. -What did you do for a living? -I used to be a police officer. It's a radical change. -In his workshop, well compartmentalized, that he buys 30 to 40% cheaper. -Their business is very profitable. In less than a year, The boss and his partner Eric manage around EUR2,000 per month. -We will say that the company We're going to make a profit, -In September, -But tonight, It is 9 pm on the Grands Boulevards The stores have just closed their doors. Georges must decorate with a model commissioned by Lego. -That one, it's extremely fragile. The risk is that it will fall apart, And let us have a puzzle of five -On the occasion of the release It should highlight the association George has carte blanche On this big Millennium Falcon, he added his personal touch. Bluish lights. George chose to represent a very specific The pursuit of this famous Falcon For this service, The only constraint imposed by Lego, also include models on sale -The child, He found it in the store. You have to keep the commercial aspect It means promoting products and a range. We need to answer that. -Five in the morning. After a whole night of work, Georges and Eric hope that make young and old dream. A few days later, The curious can admire the staging. -They even put on lights. That means that in Lego, -The one that is at the heart -What do you want for Christmas? -The big one over there? -I'm going to take this one! -Don't you want the little one, A window that may change orders -Now that we've seen them, -This year, The Danish firm is likely The number one toy.