Hello everyone, welcome back! My name is Taryn saving cleaning hacks. Let's get started. we put our dishes in the dishwasher, we wash a lot of people don't realize is that you can put didn't think were dishwasher safe. light fixtures, hubcaps, if you have waste baskets house, and those kind of get a little dirty, you of things can go in the dishwasher. toothbrushes, hairbrushes, it's very convenient to you may not have thought could could be dishwasher your cleaners. I've gone to people's houses 20 scrubs and all kinds of brushes and things. I two things - I use an all-purpose spray - any kind and then I also use Barkeeper's almost like the consistency of baking soda but I use it in the bathroom, it's great to scrub I use it on stainless steel. You can You can use it in your kitchen sink. You can even like the bottom when they get all dirty. It gets their bathrooms, and you can use the Barkeeper's product, I highly recommend it and it will My third tip is - it's something I've been doing parents used to ask me to clean our bathroom and while you're using it. I know it sounds weird you know you're washing your hair, you're using clean the shower while you're while you're in rinse it. It's great. My next tip is to clean as ever worked in a professional kitchen, you know the kitchen clean but it's also to save time. So put it away. You don't need to only focus being able to clean as you go and not have a As you're using things, even after you finish for the next step in your in your cooking process, Magic Erasers. They even have sort of like but Magic Erasers are wonderful! Even if you have it in a long time and you can't get it clean with will completely work. You can also use the leather sandals, it works really well. You can clean your jewelry with it, it works great for and we have scuffs and things on the wall I use it to clean my bird bath - there's so many You can't use it on stainless steel but literally next cleaning tip is to clean the microwave every to do but let me tell you, once you've used steamy on the inside - just take a sponge and It'll look perfect. Just do it every time you use You don't have to wait until the whole inside just wipe it down every time. Super simple, anytime you leave a room take something with you. things just end up all over the house in places room empty-handed. Anytime you go from a room just with you. Same thing goes when you're going up the empty-handed no matter when no matter what and day and you won't get to the end of the day and next two tips are about vacuuming. One of them is if you just vacuum your house every day it's going If you have to get out this giant vacuum cleaner, just never going to vacuum so my tip is to get a I have just rejoiced with my cordless vacuum - bought one sooner. My next tip, kind of along the Do your research, find a robot vacuum that and take advantage of it. You dirt and dust the robot vacuum will find and it's under your desks, under the furniture, and it cleaned the house and I run the robot vacuum don't know where all this dirt is coming Okay so my next tip is to just clean something. I'm going to clean the whole kitchen or I'm put time aside to do it? Don't do that. Just stand to heat up in the microwave because that's what sink, and I'll just take 30 seconds and I'll like plan to clean the kitchen - I don't have to clean the kitchen sink because I'm standing cleaning the kitchen sink. Same thing with I'll just open up the toilet and clean it - super bathroom; I'm just cleaning the toilet and I'm clean the inside of your dishwasher and washing clean those appliances. If you think about you're washing your clothes in there and you dirty. I buy these Afresh dishwasher tablets; I and I just run them with my normal load of dishes. perfectly clean sparkling and great when it's is I actually run a load once a month, I would Sometimes the washing machine gets dirty and so just adding that bleach in is very really well so that you can have clean clothes. My I have a donation bin and at any time I'm going and I just think like "we don't need this" and every few days, whatever it is, whenever I we need to get rid of some things. And then donation center and I don't have to worry about decluttering because at the end of the month it's My next tip is kind of similar to the shower vanity and the mirror after you've brushed your well; I feel like it's going to be really helpful roommates. I think that getting into the practice quickly after you're done brushing your teeth, bathroom cleaner longer. My last tip is, maybe one is the 10 minute tidy. Some people do a 15 bit more manageable but basically the idea is you you just speed clean whatever you can do. Clean whatever you can see that needs to be done be so surprised by how much you can get done in cleaning takes a long time and it's very tedious chunk, that's super manageable and very easy for every day, you should be able to get a lot cleaning hacks that I think will save you you if you've heard of any of these and if