Hey everyone, it's been quite some time even if they never stop talking about me. But earth change over time, most of their brainwashed as their messiah, and that's Eric Dubay. he's a pointless grifter and yoga teacher Rowbotham called "Zetetic Astronomy: Earth Not a gullible masses, with some crappy pamphlets "200 Proofs Earth is Not a Spinning Ball". flat earthers somehow still reference this tool, of his so-called "proofs" and show how profoundly Now in order to do this, showing clips from I've downloaded his ridiculous e-book, so I can summarize and then debunk it. That will keep the and then we also don't have to listen to his this is what he sounds like. And this guy has followers. What a 1) The horizon is always flat! Any footage footage that shows it isn't flat, which In reality all sufficiently high altitude whether it's the 24/7 live feed from the ISS, much of which entirely predates the existence Always. So this is a lie. Gee, do you think a 2) The horizon always rises to eye level! No the same place in your field of vision! Another below eye level, proving that this is a dumb lie. get their dumb catch phrase "water always what level means. It doesn't mean "flat". It acceleration due to gravity, which points to everything to the center of the earth, so which essentially means any tangent line with are level even though they exhibit curvature, and to the center of the Earth as geometrically can't even exist on his imaginary pizza land tides are just little hills of water moving around 4) Rivers only flow downhill! Yeah. Including at an elevation of 1,475 feet and flows the Gulf of Mexico at sea level. He just pulls even specify what he's talking about. gibberish. If the Nile were to flow a thousand then it would do that no matter what the shape flow uphill. He's just lying. He could cite do that because he made it up. he doesn't know what level means. It are not magic. They get pulled to the center else. Oceans exhibit curvature and are level. can't handle even a millimeter of curvature. In and run through valleys and conform to local of times more curvature than the curvature of seen train tracks. Also, bridges are specifically suspension bridges have towers that are not that they can't be precisely parallel because of 8) The Suez Canal! Again, he's pretending that understand what elevation means. Boats go from is level throughout. There's nothing "parallel" to 9) Some engineer guy said a thing! It's a as to what he's referring to, pivots to train and specifies that train tracks don't have to insignificant on the local scale, dramatically I can't find any evidence whatsoever of an 10) More trains! Random numbers with no train tracks can't handle anything 11) Another fake engineer quote! You can tell can only run on totally flat surfaces! Except the inclines they traverse literally all the the train has to tiptoe on those parts. And eight Who could imagine such a thing! Insanity! train thing and pretending these are somehow all tracks don't think about the curvature and completely dwarfed by local topographical time and we are only on number 12. Unreal. description of a light on the "summit" somehwere in Spain, which was seen from what I specifically a place called "Camprey" which the same even though he mentioned the summit of distance, he lies about the amount of curvature, made up anyway, since I find no mention of including Arago's Wikipedia page which is lengthy. fabricated event that offers zero specific channel, and the amount of curvature there 15) Airplanes! Yes that's right, planes should by going in a straight line! That's exactly expend energy to counteract gravity! Throw a ball way up into space too! This is one of the absolute them having no clue how planes work. When a plane is lift pushing the plane up, due to air hitting specifically designed to maximize lift and keep have level flight, meaning constant altitude, and As the plane flies level, it follows the curvature It can't magically ascend in elevation against has he ever seen a plane land? Does a plane the runway? No. The nose points up as the plane 16) Airy's failure! He has no clue what this existence of the aether. Which doesn't exist. prove the heliocentric theory". That was done 17) Olber's paradox! No, this isn't what assertion that the universe is infinite, and there were infinite stars in every direction, proposes none of those things. Billions of stars infinite stars. He can't be bothered to google the to even read the quote properly, since Poe clearly 18) Michelson-Morley! Another thing that and which he will never do. They also were trying which it turns out does not exist. Yes, they a finding which prompted the development anything to do with the shape of the Earth 19) Tycho Brahe! It's true, he was not convinced He knew that stars should exhibit parallax. which didn't exist when Brahe was alive. It confirm the parallax of nearby stars even with idiot has to time travel to when telescopes 20) Fun with physics! If you fire a cannonball place because the Earth is spinning! No. momentum. The cannonball retains the momentum of right back on the skateboard when they jump in the skateboard even though from their reference straight down. Same with the cannonball. helicopters and balloons. These objects don't simply by hovering for the same reason that fly to the back of the cabin at 500 miles per enclosed. Observe people playing tennis on the 22) More of the same stupid! The guy was falling the balloon he was on was rotating with velocity as he fell. Ever see planes dropping on the point precisely below where the plane was the velocity of the plane, so they travel forward to perform calculations and know exactly when to the Earth doesn't rotate at a thousand miles linear motion. It rotates once per day. He sound unreasonable. In reality it's rotating 23) Gravity is magic! Yes, the Earth just like all other matter. Yes, the there is no "perfect synchronization". The Things in orbit are still under the influence of and he doesn't know what a vacuum is. No, basic of any of the random objects he is listing. He's 24) More fun with cannonballs! Yes, we can so it doesn't matter which way the cannon 25) More plane stuff! Pretending that planes below them is like pretending you can't jump second your feet leave the truck it will fly humans can't jump forward at 70 miles an hour. When it takes off from the Earth, the activity of surface. Reference frames. Learn about them. is, but googling her name brings up nothing so it seems pretty fake. Also, pointing to any less stupid. Copernicus wasn't arguing that been common knowledge for well over a thousand but out of someone else's fake dumb mouth. all of this, for the same reasons. what they do, why? Because you say so? That's not 29) Crazy fast spin! He cites this thousand it's all he has. When you're going 500 miles an don't feel motion at constant velocity. You not that hard to understand. As the Earth constant rate. There's nothing to feel. When a stationary body. So you feel it. Got it? at sea level, and clouds much higher moved in air currents can exist at different altitudes? you say? What's funniest about this is that it of the Earth. The guy is saying there is wind and wind pushing clouds in a different direction he would still be totally dumbfounded come into play here exactly? Nowhere. not cause wind. The atmosphere also moves with flying kites and more time learning basic physics. oceans stick to the Earth while tiny puny weak the best examples of how dumb this guy is. Heavier things have a harder time counteracting and it depends on mass. Oceans are enormous and accelerate them against gravity, as it requires they have these things called wings. They use gravity. As I have famously offered in a previous any form of sentience to decide for themselves into the sky from the ocean all the time anyway. the water cycle. Check it out some time. know what to say with this one. It's that water and fish from floating out into space, and 34) More fun with travel! Ships don't ever! But is that really true? No, and it's easy is one minute of latitude, or one sixtieth of a long distance travel because the curvature of the Nautical miles were literally invented to take of this is lies. Anyone who does these kinds and any flat map of the Earth is distorted project a curved surface onto a flat one. latitude lines would represent smaller and smaller they do. Since the Earth is a sphere. That they Earth isn't flat. He basically offers up one and just says "nuh uh" to his own assertion. vague and meaningless". Wow, that's convincing! In I repeat. Every year, a bunch of people sail proves this pizza land map isn't real. that's what we were just talking about. Once map is bullshit. So he brings it up, spews some 37) More Antarctica! Somebody was exploring and the numbers, no attempt to contextualize them on Maybe they were incorrectly presuming that the pole? That's a pretty obvious speculation. 38) More confused ships! Any it's because the Earth is flat, because reasons. are 1,550 miles apart. Well no, which is around 790 miles. And they're on which means there's no point in even checking 40) The same thing but somewhere else. 10,500 or about 5,700 miles. Where are you getting these 41) Holy hell, the same dumb lie in It's 10,268 kilometers or 6,380 miles. Who Does he try to pick up women with this stuff? of Antarctica is 12,000 miles? Actually it's less 50 to 60 thousand? Nope. That was the length zig-zagging around to many different ports. It has 43) Flights over Antarctica! That's the shortest isn't. He just draws random lines on this image Great circles, the paths that planes actually close to Antarctica, or even fly over the edge perfect sense. Also, yes, going directly over the storms and blizzards and what not, and nowhere to private jet and check it out for yourself, genius. why do they always stop in the Northern over the Pacific Ocean, several times per week New Zealand. Here's the route they take, and and see the Pacific Ocean below you with your that this flight doesn't exist, and yet none of since this flight single-handedly 45) More lies about flights! Johannesburg blah... they don't. You can get a direct 46) Another flight. Cape Town to properly. Direct flights exist. Fail. Sao Paulo which again he can't spell. 48) Another flight. Santiago to Johannesburg. I found connect in Sao Paulo, not Senegal. It's just flight. Also, it's important to point out that he pretends that stops are for "refueling". They every two cities in the world have flights between take one flight, land at an airport, get off the and take another totally unrelated flight. That's pretending that for all of these routes, the plane refuel, and then take off again for the intended when you never leave your mother's basement. 49) Weather! You heard it from Eric, hot in Africa This dumbass thinks a magical substance called space to the Earth. All flat earthers think that hands with. In reality, electromagnetic radiation which then strikes the Earth and its atmospheric kinetic energies, which we call heating. The light so the heating effect is greater. The light traversing more atmosphere and distributing so the heating effect is dramatically lesser. regions reflects a lot of the light back to Everyone learns how the climate and seasons work day. This one makes me laugh because he isn't is too stupid to understand how climate works. They should have comparable temperatures, and they do. Objectively. He just baselessly says and as proof he shows pictures of polar bears The exact same animals should magically the Earth because reasons. Brilliant. Eric, the south pole is found on Antarctica. A of land. The north pole is in the middle surrounded by ocean, the other pole is ocean don't you think? Different enough to cause the higher elevation on Antartica, again, because and mountains and what not. Do you get it now? and this other random island in the Southern case closed! This is so mind-numbingly stupid have differing numbers and types of animals. The 53) Sun stuff! He baselessly asserts that longer than those in the South. Doesn't mention just because I say so. And of course he's South America and see how long and short the days earth with zero attempt at explaining how, since 54) Dawn and dusk! They happen at different rates! the sky is constant because the rate of Earth's out of his ass, and using words like "wobbling" sense whatsoever on a flat earth in general, sense is also directly from his asshole. concentric circles explain precisely nothing all observations. If the sun were to be taking it would have to be illuminating nearly the the same time while not illuminating the center, And of course he ignores the 24 hour sun at the and just pretends it isn't real. precisely at the poles! No. Just look at a experiences 24 hours of daylight. The end. says there is 24 hour daylight at the south for all of the uncut video of it. Why is there Arctic? Because people live there, moron. Nobody been encouraging flat earthers to apply for jobs Also didn't he just say that there is no 24 hour the geographic poles? Now he's admitting that in those people were standing right on the pole, huh? months? That's crazy! No, it isn't. 24 hour night just when Earth is at the opposite point in its see that as Earth rotates this part is never zero sense whatsoever on his pizza land. Just it doesn't mean light magically wouldn't reach general makes no sense on a flat earth. At all. should not be 12 hours each, because of any latitude and observe what fraction of it is that changes as Earth orbits the sun. This is so 60) The horizon! It's so flat, you guys! Just reliable! Except it isn't, our eyes are not use those instead we can measure the curvature of and more pronounced with altitude. Earth is really look flat to you. Zoom in on a circle until it 61) More horizon stuff! If Earth were a ball even at sea level! Why? Because you say so? of Piza! It's Pisa, jackass. My family is from moron thinks a planet with a 25,000 mile those tiny planets from Le Petit Prince, or that or something. Earth is really, really big, idiot. Sam Rowbotham I told you about lied and said the of the flag, he didn't account for refraction, and then and the curvature was confirmed. flag thing that didn't happen. Dubay just straight up copy pastes sections of the clear that he doesn't want to even pretend to have some garbage about sticks and a string and as we already showed, and the idiot pretends down a big hill of water, because he's an idiot 65) Sam again. He's describing the and disappear from the bottom up, a very clear that has been acknowledged for millennia, and because of some numbers he made up. Again, the clearest demonstrations of Earth's curvature way flat earthers attempt to engage with it. to prove everything is super duper flat! This is nowhere on Earth that's perfectly and immaculately he did not do this. Also, the idea that the anytime in the past several thousand years is 67) We see too far! He lies about lies about the required vantage point for 68) We see too far! These two places have a so the straight line distance is way less from a pretty high elevation, and yet we 69) We see too far! The driving distance is way less than 60, the picture is taken of the buildings are obscured due to Earth's correctly! Impressive! Couldn't figure out how 70) We see too far! Philly and New York again, location so I have no idea what this picture attempt to show fake math to justify this number. side of the lake. Since this is right over water mentions but then just hand waves away, just like the buildings, which proves that the curvature see all of the buildings. The numbers are made up, should be leaning away from us in a way that is distance represents 0.24% of the circumference of you get 0.864 degrees. The buildings should one degree off the vertical of the observer, an you were standing right next to something. distance and the math. There's a ton of these in 73) We see too far! He's lying 74) We see too far! He's lying 75) We see too far! He's lying 76) We see too far! He's lying 77) We see too far, for the fourth time in really desperate to inflate the numbers I guess. 78) We see too far! He's lying about the math, and baselessly claiming we 79) We see too far! He's lying about the we can see the base of the mountain, even though 80) We see too far! He either totally made lying. Nobody saw a ship 200 miles away, that's just show a ship 200 miles away. Or anything 81) We see too far! He's lying 82 through 89) We see too far lighthouses distances and all the math. Also the way makes the light visible beyond the point 90) We see too far! You can see the statue of Not listed. How much of it can you see? Not to the statue for no reason at all! Also this thing we just said about light from lighthouses. didn't do enough of those before. He's 92) We see too far! He's lying about the since observations from ships take place from farther because of Earth's curvature. about the elevation and the math. variety! This 22 mile long flat thing should be there is no such thing as a perfectly straight shitty drawings that have no correlation 95) We see too flat again! No, 96) We see too far, encore edition! Some And that wraps up the "we see too far" 30 of the 200 entries. Astounding. mean anything. Earth's rotational axis is tilted the ecliptic, or the plane of the solar system. Milankovitch cycles, which take many thousands of hour. It spins once per day. Then he continues are accurate while others are made up. Then he bang because he's a moron who knows zero things with "nuh uh because me no feel it". I wonder if easy to measure all of these things, if you took figured all of this out. I won't hold my breath. not know! This isn't a range. It's two the revised distance based on better information. Cepheid variable stars that revised the number star to determine the distance, in addition to perfectly aligned with the north pole. It's just it exhibits parallax which we can measure, the precession of the rotational axis that he is even bother to learn the basic vocabulary of 500 CE. Around 3000 BCE it was Thuban, which is in deliberate ways. Later it will be another star. north pole we shouldn't be able to see it anywhere equator and you take one step south, it should with the pole, atmospheric effects exist, and he's just lying. At the equator it's right on earth were flat you'd be able to see it from stars from absolutely anywhere. You can't. Because obscured by the Earth at certain latitudes, the 100) More stars! The Southern Cross longitude! Well it is. He's just lying. And can all see it at the same time by looking that would mean all looking in completely 101) More star stuff! The southern pole star No. It's faintly visible even to the naked eye, You can see it with any telescope. Then apparent motion for the stars depends on the you're in! Ok genius, in the south, star trails face that'll make them go counterclockwise? Here's is. Put a clock on your ceiling. Which way can Oh that's impossible and you're a moron with 102) Declination and perspective! Yeah, look you converge with the horizon! A star that is do that because reasons! This isn't a vanishing go below the horizon. Stars disappearing as you change latitude is proof of Earth's That's what a sextant was invented for in the 18th the horizon in order to determine your latitude. of sight to the star can see the star. It's not were flat, all stars would be visible everywhere. constellations are from the Zodiac, which are As the Earth rotates, most people have a 105) More Zodiac constellations! What is this not spheres. Hemi means half. Half a sphere. Nor pizza land. It's just a circle and a washer. Learn 106) South pole not real! There is no "barbershop scientific knowledge comes from children's The poles are the points on Earth's surface that proof is him not knowing how compasses work. from the geographic poles. He has no clue how a fact that makes no sense on a flat earth. with magnetic field lines. Those originate at the south geographic pole, and flow to the south there are no field lines to align with and a do at the north pole? Funny how he doesn't mention magnetic poles move. It's just what they do. If you'd never say something so stupid. south pole is not its circumference. The two the disc magnets we play with as kids. That's why again just like disc magnets. This is just have the magnetic field we observe, which it geology he doesn't understand. That the magnetic and the interior structure of the Earth is not drill all the way to Earth's core to know it's through seismology. I have geology tutorials you That's a joke, I know you're allergic to learning. aligns with magnetic field lines. That's why the poles move. They drift a few miles makes compasses useless. And good lord, if the the other end would magically bend at a right of the dumbest things any human being has ever lines. If this sentence is too complicated for you 109) Cardinal directions! He's basically just he says so. And then ignoring the fact that which makes zero sense, because ships direction as they travel directly east or west. times and trace Magellan's path on your imaginary 111) Circumpolar navigation! Meaning traveling the other side to the first pole. He says for all the times people definitely totally have as by plane. He pretends they haven't because So contrary to this sentence here, that it earth isn't flat. Unless you want to pretend ice wall. And I wouldn't put it past you. rotation of the Earth, then every six months day Nope. One 360 degree rotation of the Earth is day is actually a solar day, which is a tiny bit the sun to the same position in the sky. These are heard of because he's a willfully ignorant asshat. people are upside down and sideways and stuff! away from the center of the Earth. Your common you're a gullible moron who thinks there should be no reason. And as an extra bonus, he says that those are two completely different paradigms. argument, right? When these idiots pretend that that's supposed to be pulling them down? And to terms of gravity on the surface of the Earth they're still picturing the floor under it, their arbitrary perspective. That's how dumb 115) Silly Newton! When he came up with gravity, lizard person. Things don't fall because of things go down and less dense things go up! Duh! things towards its center, and it pulls heavier equation. They pretend that objects magically less dense than the air below them, so by their apart from planets and stars, which he pretends demonstrated by the Cavendish experiment, which why. This is middle school level physics. "experiment" to make things orbit each other! planets, what losers! Hey moron, did you moons that orbit them? You should check it out. moons and artificial satellites stay in orbit no you can't orbit Earth by jumping, 117) More Newton! Earth bigger so it make more idiot, the equation calculates the gravitational exerts on the other. The two experience differing because they have differing masses and isn't "superseding Earth's gravity". That up into space and onto the moon. It doesn't do attractor" just to sound as dumb as possible. of the moon is always the same, so the different bodies of water have different depths tides. It's astounding that you didn't know because you're an idiot with no concept of scale. 119) Planets! Other planets are spheres, but is objectively a planet and a sphere, and we see we've known about most of the planets in the them. We didn't know what they were until modern discs of light through a telescope. He's clearly look like planets. Of course to him, pictures especially the early ones from the 1960s when CGI Mars, total Hollywood rubbish, am I right? And that's just the buzzword he uses to dismiss plenty of film photographs of other planets, earthers have no idea how to use cameras, so of focus and they make up fantasies based on that. plane because planes are flat, they just added meaning wanderer, because planets moved at a and even exhibited retrograde motion. It comes and even says that it comes from wanderer. claims it comes from plane. He pre-debunks 121) Sun and moon stuff! They look exactly the common sense, case closed! Well they don't close. And I guess when Eric holds his thumb as a skyscraper. That's how dumb this guy is. perspective when they film movies to make hobbits they are just by looking and making up whatever The Earth looks flat to you because you're "feel" that something is stationary because and yes you are a complete moron that should you think your stupidity is worth more than the 122) Sharing the stupid! Another quote. Who the or literally nobody, but either way, pointing at doesn't make him any less wrong and dumb. because measurements have been refined over half a flat earthers have their own pretend measurements, they're not actually based on anything. close! Just look at this. The sun must be like and a second ago he said it's thousands of miles so obviously a far away sun does this stuff, and this. In reality there are no "localized 125) More sunlight! Look at the angles! away. Because reasons. It's actually really in fact! Even though we've been up there and thousands of miles away. Make up your mind, moron. a word you like to use all the time. Also, ever at dusk? Yeah. That's impossible on a flat Earth. away from the sun? That's crazy! Well no, you're with the distance from the sun. They don't. It's directly different latitudes are being irradiated, winter in the north it's summer in the south, distance, so he's just pretending the southern can say it and sound less stupid. Mission failed. Light can't curve! This is insane gibberish. can be illuminated by it. Shine a flashlight on a 128) Sundials! How do they still work if Earth More insane gibberish. Sundials work because many thousands of years, and there is no spiral. through a telescope, why doesn't it move? mounts slowly move the telescope so that we can This used to be done manually, now it's done never looked out of a telescope before. Sam! Do something stupid with tubes and never actually did this, but even if he did weren't precise enough to do what he's saying. a sphere, you guys! It's a little spotlight But of course that's all fake because reasons. But Mt. Wilson observatory, and it's definitely a and shadows all over it. Oh right, you've never What else? Oh yeah, that we all see the same face a little disc it would change shape in the sky and it definitely would never rise or set. orbit around the Earth, and it inverts as you again because Earth is a sphere. stuff and moonlight is a bunch of other stuff! and most of this stuff is objectively not things be damp. It can't be cooling. It doesn't affect he's just a moron with no clue what light is. than in the shade, but then at night it's hotter Moonlight must be cold! Well no, that's not how ever. Light induces excitations and vibrations and temperature is a measure of the average In reality, whatever was providing shade during from the Earth while things cool down at night. and that's why the readings are different. whereby moonlight has caused the reading on 134) More moon stuff! A sphere can't reflect a tennis ball. Can you see it? That's because it's eyeballs that isn't emanating its own light 135) More moon stuff! No, the moon or there would never be lunar phases. We can't see by the sun apart from faint earthshine. you can't see sky "through the moon" because Sky is between us and the moon. And no, you can't there any record of that anywhere. That's a dumb asserts it and doesn't show any such evidence. remarkable precision is proof of heliocentrism. of years ago the way they are today. They roughly what day an eclipse would occur. Now and can trace the path of a total eclipse viewing Eric? Use your pizza land and do some pretend your work. Also, when you say "heliocentric the Earth was a sphere for nearly 2000 years the Earth is a sphere. The Ptolemiac model, Earth. It is astounding that you don't know that. by Earth's shadow being cast on the moon, which eclipses single-handedly demolish your fantasy. circular shadow the Earth casts on the moon was a since spheres cast circular shadows. And no, eclipse. On occasion you see them just barely and that's due to refractive effects that bring into view. You can't see them both way high in the eclipses, and you morons don't even try to offer that there's some other object in the sky that then disappears right away, which is ridiculous. disappear bottom up as they sail away was a very in fact all sailors knew the Earth is a sphere, of stars over a spherical Earth for navigation. will not save you here. There is no justification things disappear while their tops remain visible, this way as they are frantically running away 139) More ships! No, you can't bring things back Earth's curvature. Telescopes aren't magic. And back into view, it would also debunk your dumb law 140) Foucault's pendulum! Yes, this object does discredit this is gibberish. He pretends that the since no amount of force along a particular and the joint is also irrelevant. The rest hanging objects suddenly start oscillating. deflection of an object moving on or near the It's one of the best and most irrefutable so of course they have to bring it up and pretend don't do this. That's a myth. But storms sure do. hemisphere and clockwise in the southern. This and no flat earther has ever genuinely engaged 142) Seeing not far enough! Yes, if the Earth to see very, very far. Not indefinitely far, but so of course he just says "yes we do", 143) Sun stuff! Yes, if Earth were flat, everyone not exist. The sun is not a spotlight, if rather elliptical and change shape depending and whatever was blocking it from radiating in this pathetic drawing does not correlate with the sun anytime ever. The last bit is gibberish. go from day to night very quickly. Once the 144) Moon stuff! Yes, the orientation of is proof that the Earth is a sphere. He makes and just baselessly asserts that it makes 145) More moon stuff! Yes, it's a sphere. No, than any other spherical object viewed from one there's just the side always facing away from us other moons we can observe. This bit about motions doesn't understand what tidal locking means. We the earliest of which are film photographs we should not expect anyone anywhere to see a locked. The distance from the equator to distance from the Earth to the moon. It's like a hundred paces backwards, and pretending one head by stepping an inch to the left or right. the Earth every single day. Earth rotates every and doing nothing whatsoever to substantiate it. this. Roughly. The apparent size of the sun and often see an outer ring during a solar eclipse completely cover the sun. That their apparent and there is no reason his magic sky size on his pizza land in the first place. I think he's acknowleding the difference which proves heliocentrism, and then 149) Constellations! They always stay in exactly they don't. The Zodiac constellations change in the ecliptic, so half of them are obscured very slowly because stars do move with respect far apart. Nevertheless, ancient star charts and sophisticated instruments can chart the an irrefutable fact, so he just jumps straight to BIG BANG IS DUMB script for morons. This is one ignoring trivial common knowledge and being too 150) Star trails! If Earth was spinning, how specifically because the Earth is rotating, points to something that only makes sense on 151) More star trails! Hey, remember how make star trails impossible! Well no, it that is traversed over a few hours one night is the distances to the stars. Stars are extremely center in the same direction, and the motion He has to play the big scary number game every 152) Flat stuff! Kansas is super flat, you guys! anyway. Flat in this context means very little curvature of the Earth. It's the distance is curved. Children can understand this. it's another idiot who doesn't know what Imagine a planet that is an absolutely perfect no change in elevation anywhere. Not even a 154) Picture from orbit! When Felix did the crazy so he has to pretend we didn't. One image horizon because he says so, even though nothing and we should instead look at the image from tiny bit of the horizon through the window, and it 155) Look out of the plane! Oh you see a tiny because Eric says so. In reality planes don't it has nothing to do with windows. Then he just at eye level, which it isn't, yes the Earth is 156) Go pro footage! Yes, weather balloons that with go pros very clearly show the curvature earthers so they just pretend it isn't real. that doesn't mean it isn't there. spinning like so super duper fast there would the Earth spins once per day. And wind is motion rotating along with the Earth is not wind. 158) More atmosphere! Again he can't grasp the Earth is not wind. If atmospheric the same position with respect to the ground, as that would not be wind. It would not be moving the ground. This is toddler level stuff. But 159) More atmosphere! Gravitized super spinny space! What's up with that! The atmosphere gets clear gradient, easily demonstrated by the very pressure as you ascend in elevation, and the the Karman line, which is not so much a sharp sea level where the atmosphere is so incredibly space. So this dumb script about vacuum next the atmosphere works or what a vacuum is. gradually until you get to a point where there's refutation" is actually just you being a moron. space with nothing to push off of? That's so that rockets need to "push off" of something, climb upwards in our atmosphere. Rockets produce a Newton's third law of motion. Get on a skateboard forward. Same principle. Now change it to the per second. The rest is even more so? Uncontrollably in all directions? That's with crazy gravity sucking everywhere! That's an enormous force to escape Earth's gravity. exact thing again about how planes flying straight. He's as lazy as he is stupid. what's up with that? They obviously should go orbit you nitwit. They follow a trajectory that and then make a 90 degree turn to enter orbit. Use are successful", as though all rockets fail directly out of his rectum. And yeah, rockets They are falling. They are falling to Earth just that they fall at the same rate that Earth's an orbit is. How do you not know this stuff? ever happened, he's just lying. Astronauts often cheap way to mimic the weightlessness of space. and pretend that space agencies are presenting walk footage and say it's fake because reasons. is fake, you guys! Everything is harnesses! screens everywhere! No, there are no harnesses or literally impossible with harnesses as they move also play with water and do other things where than the duration of a vomit comet trip. The hair thin straight hair. Some people have thick frizzy Flat earthers take the thick frizzy hair and pasta, they pretend they are using some kind they've just never touched frizzy hair before. satellites aren't real. But the ISS is eye. Uh oh. Time to lie! When you zoom in it's it isn't. But it totally morphs and changes color of the ISS from Earth. Can't get much clearer than is fake NASA CGI voodoo because they say so. up with the idea for satellites and he was a radio existed prior to satellites. Then we all over the world. You're just reciting yes towers exist because they're interacting 167) More satellites! The thermosphere is so would totally burn up there! Just more of this or temperature mean. Temperature is the measure in a system. Yes, atmospheric particles way up fast. But what's the density? Practically particles have to collide with other particles. It if there are so unbelievably few of them. Here's understand, Eric. When you bake some cookies for her basement well into to your 40s, the oven is at when you open the oven to get the cookies, does that gets exposed to that crazy hot air get severe in a pot of boiling water, which is only half you. Because liquid is a thousand times more dense colliding with your hand and transferring heat. have it. Satellites are just fine up there. beam cell service directly to every single then to phones from there. Fewer towers 169) More satellites! Receiving dishes why? It would depend on your latitude. If is directly overhead, dishes point more or less are not almost always at a 45 degree angle. He they all do that. Because he's a lying fraud. dishes are pointing at? Didn't bother showing 170) More satellites! Yes, you can see the ISS to be pretty big and in low earth orbit, but they're very shiny so they sometimes reflect satellites are not planes or drones or shooting 171) More satellites! Yeah, there are thousands Earth for various purposes. Yes, individual photos orbit is very close to earth. That just means the doesn't make them CGI and they very obviously are indeed a simple matter to take some photographs. placed next to each other doesn't make them not a skyscraper but you were standing 10 feet away and join them edge to edge. Does that suddenly 172) Clouds! Clouds change shape all the time space they don't change literally at all even on timelapse! Except yes they do. Whoops. And this to understand how photos taken from different Has he never seen photos from the 70s before? copied and pasted! Ok, so a flat earther took a 174) More clouds! Look, this cloud spells sex! the dog in them! No, they don't. Which is Also, the idea that the super secret illuminati quadrillions of dollars per year maintaining cartoon dogs into photos for shits 175) CGI trickery! Professional analysts have manipulated! No, they haven't. No, pictures of as that technology did not exist when in the 1960s. Here. Apollo 11. These images are earthers either misinterpret artifacts 176) More CGI trickery! The colors in the photos with different color tones. Also different lenses, different angle of sunlight, different scientific 177) NASA lies! Eric tells a fake 178) Google Earth! All those photos are taken from airplanes. No, the photos can't be modeled onto 179) Back to the flights! The earth should be Conservation of momentum. We went over this. same toddler point again, just 181) The exact same thing 182, 183, 184) All the exact same thing 185) We don't feel anything! He already said this. You feel acceleration. You feel forces. Yes, you can't feel the motion when going 50 miles due to imperfections in the road. Otherwise it in a plane at cruising altitude feels like motion at constant velocity. You don't 186) But seriously, you should feel it, you guys! they can be really bumpy. And it's also an optical by while you sit stationary in a chair. None of Earth, which is not measured in linear units. pretend to understand thermodynamics. Planets moron definitely has no clue what entropy is Entropy is a measure of the dispersal of matter that the entropy of the universe increases for to the shape of the Earth? Oh right, it doesn't. entropy whatsoever. Coincidentally, the Earth does the moon, and Earth's rotation is indeed slowing increasing by 1.8 milliseconds per century. As you also totally irrelevant to the shape of the Earth. it's a perfect sphere, then it's an oblate NASA never said it's a perfect sphere. when we already knew that the Earth is an oblate just not quite a perfect sphere. There is a The picture he shows is just an arbitrary is just something Neil Tyson said once to make shaped like a literal pear, so this cartoon is because the shape of the Earth is only a small 189) Old books! Yeah, old books say 190) Old cultures! Yeah, old cultures generally had no clue what anything was or why we figured out it was a sphere roughly which was about 2500 years ago. No, it was not person knew the Earth is a sphere for all of model uses a spherical Earth. He's lying. And was the first to develop and demonstrate it in this tiny little paragraph it's astounding. No, they weren't. You're just circling random if it were true, it wouldn't change the shape prove it's a sphere with naked eye observations I find it hilarious that he is pretending years before there were freemasons. Pathetic. this moron having no clue what a theory is or any objection you're just dumb and don't listen, 193) Earth is flat because I say so! That's that nobody who isn't indoctrinated and that is counted as one of the proofs that words and showed them to people. It's spectacular. water should fly off the Earth for literally no water being manipulated by centripetal force, because a pail is not a planet. Yeah, it's a doesn't hold things by centripetal force. It's to forces. Water is subject to the influence 195) More gravity! No, zero astronomers because gravity is not magnetism. They are stupid thing to say. No, they don't call it want to denigrate it and you're too lazy to learn too lazy and stupid to learn basic physics is it should somehow produce a gravitational field the water flies off of it! First of all, it stays mimics the depths of Earth's oceans. Second, than the Earth, which spins one time in 24 hours. the Earth because of the gravitational field of exist. Big thing like planet make big gravity. sense is irrelevant, and you have none anyway. moron doing the big scary numbers game, in a one of his other "proofs". He actually plagiarized and counted it as another proof. Did he think 197) Conspiracy! Yes, there is literally no point by tricking people into thinking the Earth is a god. Beyond this, tons of people are creationists, everything super special just for them 6000 years have a nice big belly laugh. Get over it, humans are the most pointless specimens of the bunch. illuminati Jews. That is all. This moron thinks it's common sense that the sun sunset prove the Earth is a rotating sphere. 200) A final word from Sam! Newton was a bonehead! makes a lot of sense to me, and anyone who passed according to the pointless grifting douchebag who to be regurgitated in this modern space-faring better yoga poses. That's progress I guess. proofs, a monument to human stupidity if ever first time I'd actually sat down and read every expected. Which is saying a lot. Thanks for making