Welcome to another Mathologer video. The most iconic pictures of mathematics. The spiral of squares and the golden spiral inscribed into these squares. Overall close approximation of the true golden that passes through these blue points The golden spiral picture captures some of mathematics' superstars the golden ratio picture is most famous for is, sadly, just propagated by lots and lots,... and lots of I call them Phi-natics will assure you shells are golden spirals, which is in spiral galaxies, cyclones and most true is that just like our quarter observe in nature are approximately infinitely many different logarithmic spirals found in nature are not even pictures that are supposed to prove the spirals are arrived at by roughly fitting a suitably chosen and doctored picture. patterns that we observe in nature like, have a connection to the golden ratio, in flower heads are golden and the non-spiral ways. If you're interested a vast portion of the golden-spiral-in-nature story. Phi-natics, sorry to disappoint. to focus on some true and truly amazing lot of mathematicians are not aware of. picture is the curious spiral of squares story is concerned, the sole function of this square spiral. It turns out that not positive real number has an associated spiral of root 2. Hands up, who has seen a square spirals which can be finite or provide a wealth of insight into the you that if you look at root 2 s square magically morphs into a so called irrationality of root 2. characterization of the irrational and use this characterization to pin of many famous numbers. To finish off number is really the geometric face of of that number. really amazing and beautiful mathematics? you how the square spiral of a number is spiral is infinite, the number has to be I'll first focus on the number root 3 to construct the spiral. We start with a root 3 rectangle like this rectangle with sides A and B whose 3. Trivial but important observation: get another root 3 rectangle. Now 3 square spiral, here's the second fourth.The rule is that the next square remaining green area, fitted in such a spiral. So next is this, then this and Right, let's quickly go back to the squares of each size that we come across first square again. There's only one square of this size. Next, two of fact, from this point on things repeat so One way to convince ourselves that things rectangle here is also a root 3 started with. This means that new squares the same way as they do in the starting repeats. Okay let's show that this blue rectangle. Remember that we started with of the sides is root 3. Put the first remaining green area are ... what? Well short side on top has lengths A minus B and the long side obviously B. Put the next square in and calculate its side lengths in exactly the same way. Now that the aspect ratio of the blue aspect ratio is what? Well this. Now some numerator and denominator by B, that over B is equal to root 3. The standard trick to get rid of the root in the denominator a 2 plus root 3 like that. Just in case let's highlight the denominator. The minus V times U plus V which, of course, which in this case is 2 squared minus square root in the denominator vanish. of-roots trick. It really comes in handy now just go on algebra autopilot and simplifies to root 3. Wonderful! At this pretty amazing conclusions. Let's start root 3 is irrational. This also ties in Okay if root 3 was rational, that is, if positive integers A and B, then the root 3 rectangle. Now we just calculated couple of squares, right? Now since A and three side lengths to be integers as well. In fact, it's very lengths of all the infinitely many integer multiple of A or B minus some down there, integer times A minus integer lengths of all the squares all the way regulars have heard me say this a lot, infinitely many squares in therefore they must eventually have possible positive integer 1. The only conclude that the assumption we started of positive integers is wrong. And so we really, really pretty proof, don't you But it is much more than that. Why? said stay true beyond the special case to see that if we start with any remove squares according to our recipe, must also have integer sides. This means that any number with an infinite square the golden ratio Phi is irrational here's a really pretty way to picture our proof by contradiction is called an that a rational number has an infinite impossible infinitely descending or Very nice but also notice that you can descent in the spiral by interpreting descending spiral staircase. There's our footsteps of someone going for the when they reach the bottom? What do you the video, just remember that if we can square spiral, then we've also shown that the spiral of a rational numbers. Well, spiral, that is, its spiral must end how does it end? Well let's have a look rectangular frame of this video is 1920 is a rectangle that corresponds to the you can see the square spiral of this spiral ends because when we place the 7s completely covered, there is no space interesting fact: the side lengths of the spiral is the greatest common divisor of Show that this is true in general. Second Which super famous Greek mathematician mathematics? Okay of a rational number is finite. How about every finite spiral comes from a give you a finite spiral like this one aspect ratio. First we scale things so lengths 1. Then it's clear that the next plus 1 is 3. Then we can see that the plus 1 is equal to 7 and, finally, that length 3 plus 7 is equal to 10. And so and of course we can do exactly the same corresponds to a rational number. Neat hmm? Okay, so that means that the rational numbers are exactly the numbers with a that the irrational numbers are spiral. That's a pretty amazing irrational numbers, don't you think? read about this. Now, to actually use this to prove that a particular number such show that it's associated spiral is this for root 3 was by recognising this was possible because we were able we come across rectangles with the same that this also happens for the golden property is part of the definition of golden if when you cut off a square, like version of the original. So since things also means that Phi has the simplest size occurring just once and the all 1s like that. Anyway, just remember someone asks you why the golden ratio is Golden Spiral and say `infinite descent' repeating example here is root 2 and I actually did not know myself until root 2 rectangles, right? Of course an A4 rectangle. What this means is that if you scaled-down version of the original, that know that you also get another root 2 like this? cool. Maybe not earth-shatteringly cool this almost as much as the really deep ask for which numbers this works. So Well so all square rooty numbers. In fact, it spiral are exactly the numbers of this all positive irrational numbers that integer coefficients. These numbers are irrationals. Now, the fact that a dealing with one of these rooty shown by one of the usual suspects, that every quadratic irrational has a hard but it's definitely a little bit of the easy direction: periodic spiral say X is a number with a repeating rectangle all side lengths of the integer times X minus another integer OR This means that the aspect ratios of the spiral building are ratios of have something like that. Now we said the two of these aspect ratios have to be But, obviously, after multiplying through simplifies to a quadratic equation and equation, is a quadratic irrational. Easy peasy, lemon squeezy. Puzzle for you, what's the solution to the equation over there and equation have in common? this video I claimed that the square thing as the simple continued fraction correspondence let's have another look the magic. To get the continued fraction squares of each size at the top and do plus 1 divided by 2 plus, and so on. Very Well, let me finish off this video by standard algorithm for generating the building the spiral side by side. This the same sequence of green numbers. Okay root 3 is equal to 1.7320... and so on let's rescale the short side of our root 3 long side is equal to root 3, that is, 1.7320... and so on. Ok how many squares of side lengths 1 can we fit? of root 3. Next let's have a look at the Let's rescale everything so that the becomes 1. The scale factor that does the also do something, we can rewrite things familiar with this maneuver. Everybody all under control, great! So good, anyway on top. Now, again, from the start. How many green? Well, obviously one, the integer Focus on the remaining green rectangle and rescale everything such that it's Rewrite the top as before 1 over 1.3360 is 2.7320... How many squares can we cut off the green. Two of course, and so on. As you can see, the sequence of is exactly the sequence of numbers in fraction. And with this transition to you're ready for the Mathologer video some of the other amazing insights they example, the amazing pattern in the continued fraction of pi, and the curious number was the simplest spiral and irrational number, etc. And that's it for Except here is one more puzzle: apart wrong with this picture here?