This is a map of the Mississippi River drafted It's part of a fairly unassuming geological of Engineers, but the maps he produced are They're strikingly beautiful representations but of all the historical paths it's cut Although astonishing to see on a map, that not just for the people who live and work world who depend on the goods and services And that's a lot of people. What the native Americans called the "Father freight corridors in the entire United States, to other countries is transported on barges A change in the river's course could bottleneck potentially even result in a global food crisis. In the 80 or so years since Harold Fisk's of dollars on infrastructure just to coerce current channel. And that's only a single case study in a the world between human activity on Earth form its landscape. Even though the natural shifting and meandering our infrastructure, our economy, and even many people pay attention to or even know Because the timescale is slow and gradual, it becomes a serious problem. And the factors that affect how rivers move So, we've teamed up with Emriver, a company tables to create a two part-series on the shift and meander, and what tools engineers We're on location at their facility in Carbondale, these models. I'm Grady, and this is Practical Engineering. On today's episode, we're talking about the shape of rivers. If someone asked you to engineer a channel path would you choose? Probably a straight line between them, right? It's the simplest and most cost effective So why doesn't mother nature choose it? This river table is full of media that represents Each particle size has a different color to (And the online video compression algorithms Water flows in at the top of the table and physical processes that happen in real rivers. In the real world, this river system would happens in this model over the course of a of years as well. Let's create that straight path in the earth table, set the water flowing through it, and Did the river behave like you expected, path a little bit unintuitive? Hopefully by the end of this video, it will We learn about the process of erosion even Wind and water carve at the earth, transporting In most places, erosion happens so slowly growing grass or drying paint. But take a look at a river and you immediately All you have to do is dip below the surface We usually think of rivers as highways for in enormous quantities: sediment. All that silt, sand, gravel, and rock that in rivers and streams, where it's carried lakes and oceans. Because of their power to move rock and soil, is hugely influenced by river systems. Maybe because the processes themselves happen to develop around how and why rivers change But, in the 1950's, a civil engineer and his job at the US Bureau of Reclamation to Through his time at the Bureau, he worked between water, soil, and rock. By the time he accepted his appointment, he theory of sediment transport. In 1955, he published his landmark equation and other professionals in the river sciences. And just like a lot of the most famous equations It says that, in a stable stream, the flow is proportional to the flow of sediment in It seems simple - just four parameters - but, with zero context, so maybe you're not feeling But, with the help of the stream table, I and how simple it makes predictions about Let's just look at some examples. Say that a large area is hit by wildfire that Where before you had a lush and verdant landscape the soil, now it's mostly just bare earth. When it rains, the water that runs off the washing more sediment into the river than We can demonstrate this by simply adding media Can you predict how the river will respond? Let's look back at Lane's Equation. We've increased the flow of sediment in the other variables. We didn't change the size of the sediment, and we didn't change its slope. That means the two sides are imbalanced. Lane's Equation no longer holds true, and In other words, this is no longer a stable In fact, we can convert Lane's equation understand. On one side of this balance is the sediment in the stream. Add more flow and you can transport more sediment. Reduce the flow of water, and you reduce the Pretty straightforward, right? But we still have to include the other two Now you can see how things get a little more Any disturbance to any of these four parameters the stream's equilibrium. When that happens, you have short term consequences, For the wildfire example where we increased the balance swings left toward deposition. There's not enough water to keep the sediment within the bed of the river like we're seeing The flow in this example just can't hold so it accumulates in the bed and banks of Here's another example of a natural disruption in the flume. Beavers build a small dam across the channel, As the velocity of the stream reduces, heavier That means that the water below the beaver and clay downstream. You can see the lighter white particles being get caught behind the dam. Let's take a look at Lane's Balance to When we reduce the size of the sediment load balance inward, and again we lose our equilibrium. But this time, instead of deposition, we can downstream of a dam, human- or beaver-made, Let's look at one more example of a natural After all, rivers rarely carry a constant Their flows change with the seasons and the That includes floods where heavy precipitation to swell the rivers and streams. We can simulate a flood in our model channel at least this parameter matches your intuitions. You can easily see the sediment being carried The banks of the river erode and the material Looking at our diagram, it's easy to see If we increase the flow of water, the scale channel. These disturbances to a channel's equilibrium in the stream table, but they can represent and even the environment. Erosion can cause rivers to shift, washing destabilizing structures. I worked on a project once with a river running Imagine the haunting headlines that a little On the other hand, deposition in a river channel Sediment can choke a navigation channel, reducing up reservoirs, reducing their storage volume. It can damage the habitat of native fish and And, deposition can reduce the ability of the impacts and inundation during a flood. Of course, floods and many other disturbances so the scale naturally balances itself once But consider something longer term, like a change in climate where a river is receiving more and more or less and less flows In this case, Lane's Balance will shift toward erosion theory is that over time, factors will naturally into equilibrium. That's mostly a result of the fourth parameter Erosion and deposition have a natural feedback But how can a river change its slope? After all, the starting and ending points Slope is defined as the length of a line divided the run if you remember from algebra class). A river really can't change the rise (or can change the run, its length. Consider the original example I gave you at Its Lane balance was all out of whack. Too much water and too much slope created at first. But over the course of a few hours, a new The river started to meander, to lengthen a sinuous path from start to finish. That lengthening led to a reduction in the back closer to its equilibrium condition. But look closely and you'll still see sediment It erodes from the outside of bends where it deposits on the inside of bends where the This creates natural meandering of rivers a river cuts itself off at a bend, leaving You also see natural aggradation where a river falls out of suspension, called a delta. These phenomena happen for most rivers and "balanced" according to Lane's theory. In reality, there's no such thing as a static All the variables are changing over time. Floods, droughts, fires, debris jams, animal ping the balance this way and that, and we affect rivers at all. That's the topic of the next video in this so you don't miss it. In addition to the constant shifting of flow pull a river toward equilibrium are not very in the stream table. In reality, Lane's scale is always in motion, at every point along a river or stream. We call this a dynamic equilibrium because are in balance, rivers still shift and meander. In that way, Lane's equation is more a way a binary measure of whether a stream channel And of course, it's a simplification. I've been calling it an equation, but there's It's really just a qualitative relationship will meander or to what extent. There are also factors that it doesn't consider For example, imagine a scenario where the of droughts and floods. Lane's relationship looks at averages. So, if one river has a relatively constant high and low flows, as long as their average assume they would behave identically. Well, we decided to try it out. See if you can see the difference. Even if Lane would predict similar behavior that the pulsed flow model experiences much Clearly, we still have progress to make in behave over time under the wide variety of From the tiniest urban drainage ditches to have enormous consequences for humans. And, like pretty much everything in life, Even when all those conditions are perfectly One of the cool things I learned at Emriver and flumes but the electronic equipment used the system. And it seems like everywhere I look, people electronics are having to learn to how to Even for this lowly civil engineer, a bunch circuits or electronics. Today's sponsor, Keysight, makes electronic do a lot more than that. They are super involved in helping people about electronics. Hopefully you've seen them sponsor other channel, Electroboom. But, another way they help the community is from the Lab, where Keysight experts share learn more. Plus they're giving away a lot of cool equipment, and if you sign up using the link below, you'll It's totally free. If you've ever tried to go deeper than surface how valuable it can be to learn from an expert. This is that opportunity, and you've got on March 14th. Whether you're an expert already or an electronics something you don't want to miss. Again, that link is in the description. Thank you for watching, and let me know what