Hey everyone, Kevin here. Today I want to So many of you have requested this Also, I wanted to do this video as well because I kind of have a soft spot in When I first met my wife, we were both she was on the Microsoft Access team, so Now you might be wondering, It's a relational database program, we'll find out more about what that even means. But at a very high level, you can use to track orders, to track assets, types of things that you can Now one of the first questions you might have I could just enter information Why would I ever need to use a database? I'm in Microsoft Excel here and sure Let's say I want to track orders I have customer information over here information over on the right-hand Well, actually, it's not really that Let's say that maybe Bill comes in and he really So, I want to enter another So here I'll take all of his customer information, I'll paste it down here, and then I'll Now this is what's referred to as a flat file. There are no relationships between So here you'll see now that from up here and I've had to paste it in again. So right now, I'm carrying his data twice. With a database you don't have to do this. We could set up different tables for the for the order information. Also, with just over 1,000,000 rows of data, and so unfortunately Excel won't be able to handle that. Also, if I go back to all the order information from this data, maybe I want to write a query, I could filter the different columns, I could the data to get an interesting view, but a query and then to pull together a report, and So that's where databases win out. All in all, Access is a fantastic businesses that need to track things. However, if you're let's say a mid-sized company, to realize some of the limitations of Microsoft Microsoft, I was on some teams that used Access If you're a larger company, you'll probably Microsoft SQL Server, Mongo DB, and the list goes However, what I will say is Microsoft Access is database design. To learn the fundamentals we're going to build our own database You know, I've been meaning for a long Cookie Company to track our orders and Yes, I did figure out a way once again to a video. We'll start off by creating an order entry form. This way other people Then we'll write a query so we can extract and then at the very end, we'll create a report so With all that said, by the end pretty good working knowledge All right, well enough talk, why don't we jump first database. To get started with Microsoft and that'll drop you on the start page, or right Right here at the top you We can start off with a blank database, Over on the right-hand side, you also If there's a template that this could help you save a little bit of There's also a massive collection of templates Down below you can search for different and here you can see all of your recent databases. One of my favorite features, when you hover When you click on this, this So, this is just a quick way to get back to the OK, to get started, let's go back up to This opens up a dialog where we can type in to call this cookie orders, and if you want to I'll leave it in the default location right here This now drops us into a new Access you've now created your first database. There's not much here yet, but don't worry, how to build this out, and before we the experience and just talk about some Over on the left-hand side, we can see that Access out Table1 first, and like I said, I want to track So, we'll use Table1 to track So, we're going to keep that Also, over here on the right, if you've this probably looks familiar. We have all of these different cells. The terminology here is a little bit different. In Excel, we refer to these as In Access, it's a little bit different. We refer to a column as a field, and So, we're going to be adding Let's get started now by adding Now up here, the first field is referred to as ID, and once again, I want to use this table ID on its own isn't that descriptive. I want to update it to be Customer ID. To update the name, you can simply double click on the field and then here I I'll type in customer ID, and that looks good and that'll bring you over to the next field, and The data type defines what type For this, I wanted to track customer information. So, this is going to be things like the the e-mail address, the phone number, or all of those fields will simply However, later on when we get to the order sheet, different data type. As you're entering data, to see if one of these best matches the data I want this to be the first name, so I'll but it allows up to 255 characters, so it'll capture all of the different fields If you want long text, that allows it to go much, much longer, but once again, short text Once I select that data type, now I I'm going to call this first name. Once I finish typing that in, I'll hit tab and and for this one, this is going to be add all of the different fields I've now added all of the different fields feel free to pause this video and you can The data type for all of these is short text. At the very end, I want to add one additional So, let's say maybe a salesperson for they add a customer and maybe you want to There's nothing like remembering the Or maybe you want to include other All that type of stuff. And this might be a little bit longer than and instead of going with short text, I'll go with This should now include all we want to include as part of this customer table. Now that we've entered in I want to show you how you can So, let's say you enter something in, but maybe you screwed something Right here, I can click on one of these field Also, when I click on one of these field headers and right here I can always go So just because you choose a data type Right down below, I can also adjust the width click on one of these field headers, it opens up For example, I can hide fields, Here you can freeze fields if you've It's the same exact concept and right Let's say I want to insert something between I could also rename here So, all types of different actions I can take to make sure that the table has the Now that we've gone through and we've created a quick way where you can look at your fields Down here, in the bottom right-hand corner, and when I click on that, Right now, it's Table1, but I Once again, this is tracking customer Once you finish typing in the name, click on OK. This now drops me into the design view and here You can also add field names here. This is a pretty quick way Also over on the right-hand side, here you can one of your fields, and here too you can click on Over on the right-hand side, let's say maybe you can also add a description Let's jump back into the datasheet view. To corner again, we can toggle back and I'll click into the datasheet view. This drops us back into the datasheet view, Right now, we have all the fields in place, and I want to add the first customer I'm probably one of the best customers. Any time you finish a batch of So right here, I'll go in and fill out my details. Feel free to do the same for yourself. Here I'll type in my last name. One thing to call you'll see that it automatically assigned an ID. So, every time you go through, it'll automatically get an ID assigned to it. As a quick note on this ID, this is also And what is a primary key? Well, this is a unique identifier. So basically, every single customer will have its own unique identifier. So, no other customer will have the same ID as I probably eat the most cookies, so it's We're also going to use this primary and don't worry if that sounds complicated, I'll In the meantime, let's go through and fill Once you enter in the first customer, down to the next record and now you can go Now just for purposes of this demonstration, four or five different customers just Feel free to do the same and make I've now entered in a whole bunch If you don't want to type in customer information the link to this database and the description. We've now finished all the customer one more table with all of the order information. To add another table, let's go back up to Right over here we can create a new table. I'll click on the one that says table. This drops us into a new table, and just like the first field is called ID and I I'll double click on this just like we did For the next field, I want to tie Once again, this is one of You can relate information, so you could So here I'll click on tab and for this I'll click on number and now For this one, I'm going to type in Customer ID. We're going to connect based on that I want to add a few more fields. For this one, I want to include the order I'll select that as the data type I'll add another field for cookies ordered Here I'll call it cookies ordered. I'll add another field for the and this is going to be a currency type. Next, I'll type in revenue. I'll add one more field called order filled. This is basically so our warehouse staff has been fulfilled or if it's unfulfilled and Here, I'll click on this field and right So, if they say yes, it's already been shipped. If not, it hasn't, and I'll Lastly, I want to add one more field, however This is going to contain the revenue per cookie, and we have all of the information stored Here, I'll have the revenue and I'll So right here let's click on this and this is going to be a calculated field. We'll see in a moment what this does. Right and revenue per cookie, that's going to be a This opens up an expression builder in Access, and One way to think of it is it's kind of I want to calculate the revenue per cookie. So down here I see some of the expression I double click on that, you see it inserts revenue So, I'll answer the divide sign, and then So, I'm going to take the revenue divided Next, let's click on OK. This drops me back into the table view and now I can For this one, I'll type in revenue per cookie. I can now fill in some order details. So over here for the first customer, this Now if you remember back on the customers So right back here in my order table, I'll I'll enter in the order date. I entered in an Now if you know Kevin as a customer, he really order for 50 cookies, and these They're about $2.00 per cookies, Now that I have that entered in, one thing the revenue per cookie. Right over here, the that checkbox unchecked. Now that we've finished Once again, if we want to rename it, we can go down here and click into the design Alternatively, I can also close this table I'll click on yes, and here I'll call this table orders. I've now finished saving my orders table and over on the left-hand side you'll I can go up here and I can close the customers But don't worry, we can easily get them back. Over and I can click on orders and that I now want to go through and add So, I'll go through and maybe type I've now gone through, and I filled Now one of the great things here you'll see with the customer ID I don't I simply have to reference that ID and then for this order I can fetch However, first off, I have to connect this How do we do that? So, up at the top, let's go up Once we click on that, there's Let's click on this. Within relationships, I can define how and over on the right-hand I have two tables. I'll click on customers, and Next, let's go over to orders, click So here now I see my two tables and you can see Right up here you can see a key icon and that Now here I have the customer and I also have the customer Now I can simply click on the customer the customer ID over in the orders table. That opens up a prompt where So here I'm saying that this value is the same as this field in the orders table. So right now I'm saying that these Next, I'll click on create and you'll see now So, this is how Access knows how these Once we're all done with this, let's This opens up a prompt to save the relationships. I'll click on yes. Along with manually entering it from other sources. Right up here on the When we click on this, over on the left-hand side, you can see all the different places For example, you can bring it in from a file, So, there are lots of different ways that So far, we've been entering data But let's say you want to have other people This might not be the most user-friendly view. Instead, you might want to create Over on the left-hand side, Right up here, let's click and right here in the middle, This will help us create a form use it to review the different There's a form wizard that'll You could also start from blank. There's a form designer, or This is going to be the easiest way so I'll click on form right here. This now drops me into a new form and down below So, this will be a lot easier for others and they can also use it to review information. Now, because we connected the customer table customer information shows up and down below So here, if I jump through the different Here I see Sheryl as my second customer, and up on top, I can design what my form looks I can choose different colors. I can add different controls to my form. I can even add a logo if I wanted to personalize Down in the bottom right-hand corner, just launch the design view, and within the design Right up here there's a form header. There are also details, and here I see a footer. I can take these different elements I could design the form how I want it to look. Over on the left-hand side right down If you're going to have people in your this will be likely the view that they see. but they won't be able to modify the form. To add a new customer record, you simply go down to the bottom and you can click on When you click on that, you can then go through here someone could go in and add some additional new data into your database without having to see Once you're all done customizing your Right up here, let's click on the X So, I'll click on yes and I'll call this order form. Once you're done typing in the name, click you'll see that it added a new category. So, we have our tables and now we have a new form. I can double click on order form, and In the introduction, I mentioned that much of the queries, and in a moment, I'll show you how To create a query, let's go up to Within create, right here near the middle, You can use the query wizard, and there's We're going to use query design. You'd be amazed at how many advanced Let's click into this. This opens up the query a pretty basic query that shows me all I need to provide this to the warehouse Now, right here in the designer, How do we start building out a query? And once again, this is just a drag and drop In a moment, I'll show you what the SQL looks like to start out with this GUI or this graphical user see this pane that's called add tables and we want So, I'll take customers first and I'll drag it just so we can see all of the details. Let's click on that and Here I'll also adjust the size of this rectangle. In an earlier step we went through, and we defined a relationship between So, these two tables are connected. So, I could do things like for a the orders because these two tables are related. Now, once again, I want to show filled, and for this I'm going And so, they're going to need stuff and what is their address where So over here I want to pull in I want to show the first name, so Here you see that first name shows up down below. I also want the last name. I want the customers address, the city, the They're going to need all of this Now over on the right-hand side, and the warehouse crew is going to have They also need to know how but they don't need to know stuff That's not really essential for what Right down here there's also the Let's click on that one. This is all going to run a query and it'll But once again, I only want to show the You'll see down here, it shows the field, it shows I could also decide whether I want to and right down here, I can define criteria. So, this is kind of like or one of these fields. Over on the far and for this one I'm going to enter So, this means that the So right now, I have my query in place. Down in the bottom right-hand corner, Let's click on this to see what the results are. When I click into the That's our first query, so here it returns and it also only returns all of the options Now one of the really neat things customer information so data from the customers so it brings it all together in one view and Now, so far, we just used a graphical user impressive what you can do, but you might want Down in the bottom right-hand corner, we When I click on SQL, right here, So right up here, we're selecting all of these and then we call out, well, hey, I want and we go through, and we identify all Then next we're saying where it's coming from, so we're going to join that with the orders table and And then down below this is So, we're saying where order So, this is the actual SQL query so if you as you want to start running some more advanced Now the really neat thing is you can use impressive queries and then if you want you can click into SQL and you Now that we've finished entering in our query, and I want to save this query, so I'll click on Once you're done typing in the name, you'll see a new category now for queries So, if you want to quickly you can simply double click on that and right Now the really neat thing is as additional customers and additional orders, if you have any unfilled orders and you run your So, let's say I have warehouse what orders have we not finished yet. They can simply run this query all the orders that need their attention. So, it's pretty powerful stuff. Lastly, I want to show you So, let's say that maybe management or someone of data, or maybe for the warehouse crew instead and run the query, maybe every morning orders that they have to fulfill To create a report, just like we created a query, Over on the right-hand side, and we can click right here to create a You could use a report wizard. You could use a report designer. You could even start with a blank report. So, depending on how much you want to Now I want to create a report that So, I'll make sure to select this If, say, you wanted to create a report of you can select those tables and then click on Here, with unfilled orders This now generates a report So here I see all of the information and it's all formatted in a very nice all of the details. Right up here, I I could go through. I can choose fonts. Even down here, I can preview what Here I can see a report view and here I can go through and design specifically So, I have quite a bit of customization. you can close it out, and Once you save it, it'll add a new and here now I see the report here. So once again, I can very quickly navigate between and just like that, we have now gone through all This gives you all of the basics to to run queries, to create Of course, there's a lot that you can customize. There's a lot of advanced functionality, The last item I want to show you To save, up in the top left-hand corner, click and here you can save it as an Access database, and just like that, we've now created our very So, congratulations, you are now proficient All right, well, that's how you can If you found this video helpful, To see more videos like this in the future, Also, if you want to see me cover any other That is, after all, where this well, that's all I have for you today. I hope you enjoyed it, and as always,