We begin in 1750 in North America. It's been 150 years since settlers from Western religious and political persecution, first Their arrival came at the expense of millions of native Americans who lived there for thousands of years, mostly in tribes. On the East Coast, Great Britain has established The northern regions depend mainly on fishing the climate is ideal for growing products such as tobacco, rice and cotton. Rich landowners - called the Planters - seize slaves from Africa, via the triangular trade. Further west, the Appalachian mountains form Beyond it, is the vast French colony, which lives mainly off the fur trade. Tensions rise between the French and British When the Seven Years' War breaks out in Europe, Britain dominates and takes hold of New France. Native American tribes living there unite the recognition of their own state. To calm the situation, the British government between the Appalachians, the Mississippi This does not please the colonists who wanted to seize the opportunity to extend their territories to the west. In addition, war proves costly for Britain. The country expects its colonies to repay which further angers the settlers. In Boston, in protest of taxes on tea, colonists British East India Company ships and throw With the situation tense, representatives to organize the First Continental Congress. They decide to boycott British goods. The following year, the War of Independence also called the patriots -- against the British On July 4, 1776, the Second Continental Congress proclaims the independence of the United States of America. France sees an opportunity to avenge its defeat Having invested heavily in its military fleet, the country has the means to compete with the Royal Navy. France allies with the patriots. Spain and the United Provinces of the Netherlands, In 1783, the patriots prevail, forcing Britain The United States receives territories until This marks the first time a European colony The United States adopts a constitution based The legislative power formed by Congress passes the judiciary with the Supreme Court upholds the constitution, and finally there is the executive power with the US president, the head of government. On the other hand, the 13 states retain sovereignty It was decided to build the new capital, Washington, In the West, each new territory with at least a new state equal to the others. Pioneers set off to relocate there, pushing back Amerindian tribes further west of the Mississippi River. In 1800, France obtained Louisiana from Spain But it proves difficult to protect this vast, Fearing the loss of Louisiana to the United region to the United States. Congress then funds expeditions to explore In Europe, France and the UK clash again. The United States first tries to remain neutral, It fails in a bid to invade the colony of reaches Washington and burns the city. At the end of the war, the United States abandons and focuses on the south where the Spanish Empire is in decline. A military incursion in Florida allows -- after In the West, Oregon is shared with the United East of the Mississippi, five Amerindian tribes and agrarian lifestyle, but Congress nevertheless and pushes the natives to a reserve west of the Mississippi. Thousands die of exhaustion on the way. In Mexico, Texas, which is populated mainly by settlers from the United States, declares its independence. After a war, the Republic of Texas is created But as the border is poorly defined, both The United States prevails and takes the opportunity where the discovery of gold causes a rush that attracts With the land route proving dangerous, private funds are invested in the construction of a railway in Panama. The state of California is admitted, which Southern states are largely agrarian, and have slavery; while Northern states are industrial and abolitionist. Both sides wish to extend their model to the new western states, causing the gap between them to widen. In 1860, Abraham Lincoln, who is hostile to In response, southern states secede from the to proclaim the Confederate States of America. Then begins the Civil War which pits the Unionists The North sets up a maritime blockade on the support from Europe and blocking cotton exports. In 1865, the North prevails and takes the Slavery is abolished, and 3.5 million slaves But African-Americans are now victims of segregation of Ku Klux Klan, a white supremacist organization. Many migrate to the North, while others move The Russian Empire fears losing Alaska to to the United States. To accelerate its conquest of the West, the government finances the construction of transcontinental railway lines. In the center of the country, the invention Vast plantations of wheat, corn and large last 250,000 Amerindians who are kept on reserves. On the other hand, the rich soil allows rapid The old continent, Europe, now views the United Fleeing poverty and religious persecution, to the United States where they work as cheap But the economic boom only benefits a minority. An elite group of industrialists grows rich such as steel, railways, oil and banks at including women and children working in harsh conditions. Strikes and protests erupt demanding better by private militias or the National Guard. While European powers colonize a large part to project its power on the international While annexing Hawaii in the middle of the where there is a revolt against the Spanish. The United States supports Cuban independentists. After the mysterious explosion of a US Navy war breaks out between Spain and the United States. The United States wins, obtains the independence of Cuba and seizes Puerto Rico, Guam and the Philippines. The country thus becomes a colonial power. In Colombia, a French company begins construction greatly shortening the journey between the The United States buys the project and then In return, the new government of Panama offers which helps complete the construction of the canal, inaugurated in 1914. In Europe, World War I begins. With workers and peasants on the frontlines, The US industry takes advantage of this and -- sells on credit ammunition, food, clothes In response, Germany tries to impose a maritime In 1917, a German telegram destined for Mexico against the United States. This pushes the United States to go to war and 2 million soldiers are sent to European fronts. 116,000 soldiers lose their lives. After the victory of the Entente, Europe finds The economy of the US prospers. In factories, improvements in the assembly The rise in purchasing power and credit results all kinds of appliances, and bank shares. Hollywood becomes a major industry with global Thanks to the sale of radios, music genres In New York mainly, night clubs open, stimulating The more conservative government tries to forbidding the production, transport or sale In response, thousands of speakeasies spring Mafia networks seize the market and get rich Meanwhile, the South misses out on this wave Falling prices for agricultural products plunge The Ku Klux Klan comes back into prominence, this time also targeting Catholics, Jews and immigrants in addition to African-Americans. The organization reaches 5 million members, In 1929, the Wall Street Stock Market crash The US economy collapses. In a few short years, a string of bankruptcies pushes a quarter of the active population into unemployment. Prohibition is lifted, and steps are taken to try to revive the economy and improve working conditions. In Europe, World War II breaks out. The United States, although officially neutral, In addition, the country sells arms mainly In the Pacific Ocean, in order to curb the the United States imposes upon the In response, Japan launches a surprise attack on Pearl Harbor, causing the United States to enter the war. The country secretly embarks upon a research In 1945, the Allies overcome Germany. The USSR and the United States then unite A ground invasion by the Soviets and the two on the cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki force At the end of the war, the United States supports role is to maintain peace and security in Europe finds itself in ruins and is exhausted The United States and the USSR emerge as the After World War II, the USSR and the United The United States implements the Marshall governments in Eastern countries. The old continent is found divided by the The USSR and the United States engage in a cold war -- that is an arms race without direct confrontation. The US, largely spared the ravages of war and military advantage. Inside the country, federal officials sympathetic Hollywood is also used to churn out anti-communist On the global arena, the country employs an at all costs the spread of communism. The US intervenes in Greece, China, and engages The Soviet Union, for its part, invests heavily After developing atomic weapons of its own, into orbit, and further outdoes itself by The United States then launches the Apollo which aims to send the first astronaut to the Moon. In Cuba, an attempt to overthrow the new communist The Soviet Union takes advantage to ally with on its territory, pointed at the United States. Tensions build to a point where it seemed However, an accord is reached between the two world powers, resulting in the USSR withdrawing from Cuba. Within the country, more and more civil rights to review its social policies. African-Americans begin non-violent actions More and more women enter the workforce and Native Americans also fight for better conditions. Moreover, with the US at war in Vietnam, students In 1969, the country sends the first man to Worldwide, millions of viewers watch the event On the global arena, the United States tries It begins diplomatic rapprochement with China, to limit the global arms race. In the Middle East, the US supports Israel for which it is then subject to an oil embargo imposed by OPEC countries. In Vietnam, after negotiations, the United Two years later, the Communists prevail in The USSR takes this opportunity to intensify The country occupies Afghanistan, and in reaction the United States provides militarily support to the Mujahideen. In Central America, US also intervenes in Nicaragua and Guatemala to counter communist revolutions. Iran, after a revolution, becomes an Islamic The latter strengthens its military presence On the Soviet side, the USSR struggles to With its economy in tatters, despite attempts marking the end of the Cold War. The United States emerges as the only major Domestically, the population calls for more crime, gangs and drugs. However, the US continues to primarily focus showing an apparent willingness to become the world's policeman of sorts. When Iraq invades Kuwait, which then held the United States forms a coalition and neutralizes The US then establishes a list of countries considered as rogue and threatening global peace and stability. These nations are subjected to blockades and Meanwhile, the military presence of an ally bothers radical Islamists, including the terrorist group Al who is a former ally from the Afghan war. US facilities and assets around the world On September 11, 2001, the United States becomes Terrorism thus becomes the new enemy of the But it proves more difficult to fight this in mobile networks without borders. Having launched a war against the Taliban the US hardens its stance against North Korea, Iran and Iraq, which it considers part of an "Axis of Evil". A new war is launched against Iraq, but US - find themselves fighting against several In 2007, the subprime mortgage shock, followed plunges the global economy into turmoil. The country tries to revive its economy, among of shale oil on its territory. Today the interventionist policy of the country such as Russia and China. The United States, however, remains the most