Although Ravel had lived in Paris from the age of twelve, the impressions that Spanish popular music had produced in him during his childhood in Ciboure were deeply engraved in his memory, as evidenced by the Spanish element of the works he composed in his maturity, such as the Rapsodie Espagnole, the Heure Espagnole and the Bolero. After preparatory studies in piano, harmony and composition, he entered the Paris Conservatory in 1899. His teacher, Gedalge, later said that Ravel was a hard-working student, but that he had a weakness for unorthodox harmonic combinations. Maurice Ravel was influenced by Chabrier and Satie, but by the age of twenty, he had a very personal style, already recognisable in the Ancient Minuet and in the Auricular Sites he published at that time. Despite his undeniable talent, he failed all four times he competed for the Prix de Rome. The fourth time he was already a well-known composer with works such as Jeux d'eau, Pavane pour une infante defunte, his String Quartet in F major and the overture to Sheheherazade. His failure attracted a lot of attention. The formalism of the Conservatory was publicly attacked and Dubois, its director, was forced to resign; Ravel's teacher Faure was called upon to succeed him. When Ravel's Histoires Naturelles, ironic and playful melodies were performed in 1907, the young composer became the subject of violent discussions. Musical Paris was divided into two clans, one seeing Ravel as a poor imitator of Debussy, the other as a talented and original composer, though influenced by Debussy. Little by little, Ravel gained the esteem of all. His Rapsodie espagnole (1907) and the Gaspard piano suite de la Nuit (1908) were received with tumultuous enthusiasm, and when, in 1910, the Opera-Comique premiered his one-act opera L'Heure espagnole, no one could deny its place in modern French music. Two years later, Diaghilev performed his baIlet Daphnis et Chloe, which is considered, along with Gaspard de la Nuit, to be Ravel's masterpiece. Following his stay at the front as a soldier during the First World War, Ravel contracted a nervous illness from which he never recovered. He spent the last years of his life in the charming village of Montfort-I'Amaurys, near Paris. Among his compositions written after the war, The Waltz and the Bolero became world famous. Maurice Ravel's personality as a symphonist has a rather singular physiognomy. This incomparable master of the orchestra leaves us ten purely symphonic scores. Of these ten scores, seven first came to light as piano music, for Ravel also remains one of the most incomparable masters of the keyboard. Let us add in passing that, of these ten scores, most of them gave birth to ballets, Ravel's genius, even in pure music, having always been inclined towards choreographic forms. Ravel was not only a magician in his musical poetry, but also in his handling of technique. His orchestral science is complete, both in its rigour and its freedom. His ear imagination is open to the most subtle possibilities of acoustic phenomena, to the most imperceptible sound suggestions. And, with the meticulousness and precision of a mosaicist and at the same time with the most inventive and original fantasy, he brings all these instrumental refinements into the most classical settings without disturbing their symmetry or balance. One can only suggest the miracle of this extraordinary alchemist of sounds. Manuel Rosenthal was born in Paris in 1904. He studied violin with Jules Boucherit at the Conservatoire National Superieur de Musique in Paris, then composition with Maurice Ravel, of whom he became a favourite disciple. Since then, he has pursued a threefold activity as a composer, conductor and teacher. He has conducted numerous recordings for various American and French companies, several of which were awarded the Grand Prix du Disque.. END