Ladies and gentlemen, Stand Up Mathematician, Matt Parker! Alright, we're now going to blow this whole &quot;what is a nerd&quot; debate clean out of the water! When I show you my all time favourite, we are talking absolute number one here, top favourite spreadsheet. Some of you may have your own favourite spreadsheets! I don't know! But would you believe, there are spreadsheets recreationally and I'm astounded at this! spreadsheets are just for work. Right, office then spreadsheets are great. numbers up, you can take averages, you can But those same people, when they go home after they don't turn into a spreadsheet or And I think that's outrageous. So I have a spreadsheets. Now while the vast majority of you are with here tonight who bought tickets because And those people may be concerned that going to be a world of column to column have written, and I will perform for you somewhere between zero and a whole joke. Okay that was not all of you, that's fine. A lot of you are now worried this joke is a And it's okay. I've minimised the impact were spreadsheets as a graph of the amount of over time. There will just be the one level of joke. And so this spreadsheet in question, my And what I have done is I have gone between 0 and 255 into a spreadsheet and so you get a sense of where the large conditional formatting so the larger the background colour gets, right. And so in the background colour changes with it. So if a bit brighter. If we go up to 200, it gets value in the cell, sorry the entire completely black and here we have every other whole number this for one colour. As you can see the and that carries on for the spreadsheet. Oh and it's about 300 columns across. Yes. Now at this point, a few of you are thinking &quot;why? Why have Why are we hearing about it on a Saturday did, I heard a few laughs when I said 255. There's a few people in here who already know where I'm going with this spreadsheet. If you my only advice, is for now, just remain Alright, cause we have a long way to go If you get too excited now, you're not room to move later on. In fact I would recommend, initially on a excited, of being around about a third of going to do is start to zoom out so you If we come one step back, you can start to see there are some structures And if we come a second step further out, makes a picture of someone's face. Look at that: that's someone's eyes made So good! In fact if you zoom out again, you can see me! Yes! Ladies and gentlemen I have really That's the one joke, that's it. &lt;Music&gt; I sense I'm being patronised. It's fine, technically a joke; I can log it in my There we go. Right. So, the reason I did this is I wanted to are actually just spreadsheets. Whenever the sensor in your camera, each little bit, amount of red, green, and blue light a scale of 0 to 255. 255 being the digit binary number. Yes! Alright, and then it of a spreadsheet. And so each group of this beyond all doubt that your mobile display I have brought along a microscope. If smartphone, preferably someone to the I will, if someone who's not that keen will put it under the microscope and there anyone down? Okay ma'am would you Thank you very much. Thank you kindly. So locked. I think it's a lot funnier when I update &quot;At a nerd show, lolz!&quot; So actually if I can all right give me a second. Camera the audience and I...you know what let's they're all the rage right? So if I get a lights up? Can we get everyone in this shot? Perfect. that's lovely. Okay, hang on. Okay you're all gonna have Alright, so I'll say one, two, three, spreadsheets. Right, and we take the photo. is this? Okay well I'll make sure you get, where are you? Wave. Okay, you're right there. We'll get you in the shot. Okay, ready, 1, 2, 3, Audience &quot;Spreadsheets!&quot; Perfect. Alright, so what we're going to I'm going to put it under the microscope. zoomed correctly. Give me a second. Okay, so we'll start off camera. If i get that in focus you see, Oh that is a horrifying sight, oh that's me. Hang on a Ok so there's there's me. Nice and whose phone, Wow is that your phone? their phone stolen. Okay, so we'll zoom right in down to the you will see that this is just a on, let me get in focus. The rest of the show protector on this? Foiled by the Okay, hang on. Here we go. I should be able to get Okay here we go. Ladies and gentlemen the spreadsheet. And you can see it's exactly the same as numbers aren't on there so if I give this pickle now. If I pass that back could we'll put up on the screen. Okay, so now at this point a lot of you are Right. How can I turn my photograph into I did it the long way. I got a digital file popped it open. there with commas between them, right? Grab those, paste them into Excel and conditional formatting. Turns out Excel, automated the process. If you go to the website for my new book .com&quot; There's a button that says spreadsheets. upload any photograph you want, and formatted spreadsheet. It is literally ones of this is: all digital displays are just take a selfie you're actually taking an excelfie. Sorry - Two jokes, who knew? Whenever you're looking at any kind of home after work and watch TV. Let's say enjoy the latest in high you're actually looking at around about I told you there are great way to relax, And this this is a digital projector There's a projector back there, it only projects red, green, and blue approximation, its a spreadsheet of all the when we have overhead projectors. Those were the days, weren't they? And on an OHP you get. Right where is now you get a at there is a spreadsheet of a this is pretty conclusive for how nerdy I did not stop here. Oh no. If you of the spreadsheet of a picture of making a spreadsheet of another picture spreadsheet and at this point I have to all the way down. Thank you very much. Well, thanks for watching that excerpt nerdity was done by myself, Helen Army, and Steve Mould, together we while you saw very little of them in that channel you will find the rest of DVD and download. And those guys are much believe me is hugely disappointing but ridiculous setting stuff on fire and the there's plenty more mathematics to keep more entertaining mathematics there are a few things better you can do maths channel of all of them for you videos believe me they'll be very little point they'll just be hugely pointless. If you spreadsheets and computing, a good place You can see 10,000 dominoes doing basic look around. If you just want to make a video you can go to the website for my Dimension or you can go to the website there are a lot of things to plug today mathematicians we go into secondary and we do basically a family friendly of that we have loads of free resources converter that schools can use. It should converting photos into spreadsheet at Okay I think that's everything if you want either when we are performing live or a channel or our website which are linked If you're a mathematics teacher you can resources to get us to come into a talk the online spreadsheet converter, in fact anyone can use the online spreadsheet converter either there or on my book's website. Oh yeah and finally if you haven't please do this ridiculousness Thank you very much