The autumn season is in full swing in my place And I turned one year older today in this November. The older I get, the more each year seems to fly by. Although October has passed too quickly as well, the October-only pumpkin still remain lol. I'm home. I went to buy ingredients to make lunch. Today I'm gonna make a local food from my birthplace, Osaka!! Here in Osaka, many local gourmet are made with special brown sauces. It's a special flavour that's hard to describe in other sauces &gt;_&lt; Today's dish is a noodle called 'Yakisoba'. Have you ever heard of it or eaten it? If you have had it how would you describe it? Please share in the comments lol. Let's make it right away! Prepare cabbage, onion and bean sprouts. First, cut the cabbage. This knife is not too sharp and I am wondering if I should buy a new one. For several years lol. I'll cut the cabbage a little larger, considering that it will be smaller when cooked. Cut the hard core of the cabbage into smaller pieces for easier eating. I'm gonna use leftover onions. Cut the onion into 1 to 1.5cm (0.4 to 0.55 inch) pieces. Finally, prepare the bean sprouts. This is to be placed on top of the Yakisoba, so a small amount is OK :) Wash vegetables lightly. If you want to keep the crispiness of the bean sprouts, soak them in water!! Buy the way, Is it safe to eat raw vegetables in your country or region? It is very interesting to learn about the different food cultures in different countries. In fact, I knew that raw eggs were not eaten in many countries, but I did not expect to receive so many comments about it lol I am happy to say that I have received many comments recently and I am sorry that I am not able to return all of them. But I read them all and receive new inspiration from them. Fry the onions first!! The key is to fry over medium heat without burning and loosen everything. Next, add pork! When I was studying cooking, I learned that pork for hotpot is a good choice here because it is easily cooked and has no strong peculiarities. And with deliberate exceptions, I always spread the meat when I cook it. This process is more annoying than we can imagine, but if you skip this, the meat will become very tough... Sprinkle a small amount of salt and pepper just enough to bring out the sweetness of the meat. And when the meat and onions begin to change color, mix them together. The fact that the pork was placed on top of the onions should have melted the juicy fat of the pork in the heat and its flavor should be on the onions as well!! Transfer these once to a plate. I'll use the noodle I just bought. This is a brand of yakisoba noodles called Maruchan. It is best made with noodles specially designed for yakisoba, but for price reasons it is sometimes made with Chinese noodles. This product is enclosed with this is not yakisoba sauce, but a powdered version of it. For an authentic taste, I use not only this powder but also soy sauce and Worcestershire sauce and stuff. To increase the baking area, the noodles are baked as they are without unraveling. To increase the baking area, the noodles are baked as they are without unraveling. While pressing down on the noodles a little bit, make sure they are well browned. Bake the noodles in the same pan as before, moving them around so that they absorb the flavors of the earlier ingredients. Flip the noodles over. Unwrap the noodles. It has a very nice char on it :) Add yakisoba sauce base powder. Normally, one bag of this is used for one serving of noodles, but in this case, since I'm gonna use soy sauce and other ingredients, only half of this is used. Mix lightly so that this is incorporated throughout the noodle. Add one-half tablespoon soy sauce. Mix to prevent burning. It already smells delicious! Add the same amount of cooking sake as soy sauce. This sound is the reason I live! Place enough cabbage under the noodles to make it feel a little too much. Be careful not to overcook the cabbage too much to preserve this crispy texture!! Place the pork and onions I just fried on top of this and let the cabbage absorb the flavor while warming it up!!! Once the cabbage has wilted a bit, mix them together. This is the most important part for cabbage which will be eaten by me lol. You may think there is not much flavor other than the noodles, but that is the point! Choose a plate to go with the yakisoba. Just kidding. I don't have such a thing. I love to cook and I cook every day, so I often wish I had stylish plates, but I always end up not buying them... How often do you usually cook for yourself? Share with friends around the world in the comments section and see other culture!! I think I served it nicely in my self-assessment, but what do you think? Finally, fry bean sprouts! Add a little soy sauce. As with the cabbage, lightly fry it so that it does not lose its crunchiness. Serve the fried bean sprouts on top of the yakisoba noodles without spilling... This is quite difficult... (-_-;) (Mission complete) In addition, top with dried bonito flakes. Sauce, mayonnaise, bonito, seaweed and so on... Osaka food has so many toppings anyway lol. I topped it with a little bit of red ginger that I had a little left over at home ahead. I like this one so I will add it more!! My clothes are white so I'm nervous that this red juice will fly at me. I don't know why, but I served it on the opposite side from the previous one ps(*`-')ps Looks good. But not finished yet lol. Sprinkle with more green laver powder. Now it is truly complete! Smelling the aroma of this dish really made me hungry. I don't know how to describe it, but if sushi is an opera, Osaka's local food is an orchestra! I hope this explanation didn't make it more complicated lol. Aside from the taste image by my explanation, how many points out of 10 do you give it for appearance? Yakisoba is completed!! Itadakimasu!! Yummyyyy The addictive sauce, the sweetness of the meat and the crunchiness of the vegetables are a perfect match!! The bean sprouts are delicious too... Next, I'm gonna enjoy yakisoba with red ginger! Umm... *^$xY=*&%#? While eating lunch, I watch My Hero Academia, which I had been too busy to watch. I am sad that this manga has been completed. Are you watching this Anime too? I was moved to tears when Shoto Todoroki went to his family lol. I was moved to tears when Shoto Todoroki went to his family lol. Gochisosama-deshita!! Now, as we are in the middle of the autumn leaf season, I'm gonna take a walk around my city and take photos of the autumn :) Let's get ready!! Speaking of which, I tidied up the room considerably to make it easier to clean. Only here they are arranged in a stylish way lol. A SONY camera that I worked hard to save money to buy. It is my treasure and motivation for the future. CASIO watch purchased as a birthday present for myself. This is the same price as a salary for three hours' work at the minimum wage here, but the quality is extremely high. I'm not sure if it's gonna be hot or cold today, so I'll bring an hoodie and bag. I feel like I ended up with a lot of baggage. But it' ok. Let's go. Today's weather is perfect. I walk this path every day and in the past week the leaves have suddenly started to turn red. It's going to rain for a while from tomorrow, so I hope to do a lot of walking in this landscape today. I found the park beautifully decorated with autumn leaves. Let's take some photos here. When I walk outside for the purpose of photography, I am aware of everywhere, so even in a familiar city I make new discoveries. And these discoveries bring me a little happiness on a daily basis. What does your city have to offer if you walk around looking up without looking at your phone? If you have something beautiful or new to notice, please share it in the comments section :) Nice! I also took photos on this single road. I visit Kyoto many times every year for the autumn leaves, but I personally think the lack of people and this calmness here is the best in Japan. Sometimes I choose locations for my shoots so that there are as few other people in them as possible, but that's easy to do in my hometown. This is a street planted with ginkgo trees. In my home town there are streets dedicated to each of cherry blossom, ginkgo and zelkova, and we enjoy seeing each season on each street :) Many of the leaves are still green because it is difficult for the sun to shine in this area. This is my secret place that not many locals know about. In a couple of weeks this place will be red with autumn leaves. Finally I took a photo here. I'll post these photos on my Instagram later. I came to my favourite cafe. The cafe is called &quot;Komeda's Coffee&quot; and there are more than 1,000 in Japan. It has a woody interior and a relaxed atmosphere, and the concept is that you can stay here for hours. This cafe is actually very funny and well received in Japan. This is because certain items, such as soft serve ice cream, are served very much larger than the pictures on the menu. The reason for this is that they want people to be surprised and pleased that the actual product is bigger than the menu. I had already decided what to order. I'll order 'Shirono-whirl'. This is a kind of croissant topped with soft ice cream and is one of the most famous dishes here. I decided to order a small size 'Shirono-whirl' and coffee set. But today's weather was either hot or cold, so it was hard to decide whether to have drinks hot or iced. The interior looks like this, with high ceilings and a slightly private room-like atmosphere. I'll check the photos I've taken until the set I've ordered arrives. Waiter : Thank you for waiting. Waiter : This is iced milk coffee. Waiter : Coffee comes with an extra bean snack. Waiter : This is 'mini Shirono-whirl'. Waiter : Are there any others that have not arrived? Me : Fine. Waiter : Thank you. Waiter : Take your time. Waiter : Let me place a slip of paper. I ended up ordering an iced milk coffee. This look is also pretty. I'm happy to pour as much maple syrup as I like. However, my weight is currently at an all-time high... But it's my birthday, so forgive me today. Itadakimasu. To give you an idea of the taste, everything is sweet anyway! lol There is no doubt that the sweetness of the bread, ice cream and maple are a perfect match! It was eaten so quickly that there was only one slice left. This slice is further halved into two slices lol. Yeah, now I can enjoy it twice as much as normal. (idiot) (Really the last slice) Gochisosama-deshita Now my stomach and heart are full of happiness. The cafe allows us to stay longer so I'm gonna read my favourite novel 'My Tomorrow, Your Yesterday.' This is one of my favourite novels and I love it because the film was shot in Kyoto, a city I know very well and feel very close to. This is a parallel world romance story and you will be moved to tears when you realise the meaning of this title and understand the secret of her frequent crying. The setting is a little complicated, but it is a film you will want to see twice after understanding the content. I don't know if it is available on Netflix, but I watched it on Amazon Prime. Watch it if you like :) I started walking a little again. I will now go to UNIQLO and consider buying winter clothes. By the way, all the clothes I'm wearing today, including the hoodie, are UNIQLO lol. I cannot afford to spend money on fashion and have no other choice in Japan as this is the cheapest and best quality available. I don't have much style, so I try to choose simple, clean clothes. As a result, the clothes I always buy are usually the same. Boa fleece jacket ($12.9) I like the simplicity of these clothes! Choosing clothes can be very difficult, especially for people of a body shape or height that is not average for the country. I am shorter than the average man in height and legs, with smaller hands and feet, so finding trousers and shoes that fit me is very time consuming. Nevertheless, all people have their own problems. What matters is whether they can accept or overcome them. I like this clothes ($12.9). (Same colour as the clothes I'm wearing.) I'll consider buying this one as it was just on sale. I have to gradually buy more innerwear and other items to prepare for the harsh winter in February. This outerwear is nice. How much is it? $84... For me it is too expensive. I gave up... This is a KAWZ sweatshirt ($19.4). Cool... I ended up buying a white and grey sweatshirt online that I had just considered purchasing. Next I decided to go to the arcade to look at the claw machine. I wanted to check if there was a stuffed 'Hachiware', my favourite 'Chiikawa' character. GIGO is a fairly major arcade in Japan. Are there any differences from the arcades in your area? There are many 'Chiikawa' stuffed toys ! There are many more over here! There is my favourite series 'Pyjama Party'!!. This blue character is 'Hachiware'. I had no change, so I intended to just look at the arcade, but decided to play a bit lol. It's not a good idea to spend too much money, so even if I can't take it out, I'll finish playing with $6.5 Let's play it!!!! (My heart pounds) Can I get it from the first time!? (# ;D;) I will try again. Let's gooo (`D') Come on!! "(*`D')no I tried on the next machine but couldn't get it... I will stop cuz if I don't, I will run out of money. I played nine times and have $0.65 left. I regret why I played it after losing my money. I don't gamble, but in these situations I am reminded that I am someone who should not gamble... Reflecting on my actions, I'm gonna walk towards my final destination. It's getting pretty dark. Our destination is just around the corner. I came to a nearby shrine. I often visit here on New Year's Day or on days when I want to purify myself. Essentially, a shrine is not a place where you visit to have your wishes fulfilled, but a place where you report your events to God and ask him to watch over you. But in modern times, shrines have many different roles and manners, so there are no strict rules and we respect the gods in our own ways and for our own purposes. I climbed the stairs, which were too steep. As I said earlier, I am here to thank God and to report that I have successfully reached another age as my event. We are not very strict about the order of actions, the emphasis is just on being polite and putting your heart into it. We never learn these rules at school, but the ideas and norms are deeply rooted in our lives. But we respect and accept your other religions, even if they are different. Please feel free to visit Japan :) I also get a lot of questions about vegetarian and halal but I often see restaurants for them in Kyoto! No worries :) My report to God has been successful. The sun is going down fast, even though it's only just after 5pm. Let's go home before my body get cold. I walked a lot today but it was a very productive day. If you like, I would appreciate a subscribe and like button :) See you soon!!