This video is brought to you by Nebula. Watch episode 2 right now by signing up With Late on a spring evening, 1992, the Endeavor on its launch pad in Cape Canaveral Florida. The crew sitting aboard ready to take on a A rendezvous between two spacecraft in orbit. A rescue mission. Bruce Melnick was aboard that day. The challenge we had was that this satellite hands. Once it got an orbit, it was supposed to be miles up. But it launched on an unmanned rocket that on its way. So it was stuck in a useless 800 mile high Melnick and his crew mates were about to take To grab it with their bare hands and attach happen a complicated series of events was 3 liquid fuel rocket engines were about to tilt the entire structure off axis, held back by just 8 explosive bolts, fed with fuel tank slung underneath the Orbiter. Meanwhile the two massive solid rocket boosters The two largest solid rockets ever made to engines were up to the challenge arrived, the entire column of solid rocket fuel inside Lifting the revolutionary reusable space plane This is the insane engineering of the Space We are mere moments away from launch. Helium and nitrogen have purged the main engines, have been tested. The Shuttle is now fully fueled and under launch pad. Ten seconds are left. Sparkler-like igniters fire underneath the prepares to open the main fuel valve. Liquid hydrogen begins to race through the tanks, through the engines nozzles, where This gaseous hydrogen drives a low pressure of hydrogen through the fuel lines. This is all happening in the blink of an eye, valves open, unlocking the fuels true power. Fuel and oxygen meet in the two high pressure Back in the nozzle we see our first flames. [REF] Oxygen levels are still low, and combustion but the engine is now ready to enter its next Entering open loop engine control, no longer instead the engine constantly monitors pressure The engine begins to throttle up, oxygen valves from a lower pressure orange flame to an eerie The Space Shuttle is unique in that these The expensive rocket engines were attached external tank. And because the main engines are offset from you to the pad, when we light off the main that stack over. And you can feel this little lurching back NASA calls it twang. kind of a real technical term. The only thing stopping the entire shuttle are the hold down posts, attached to the solid waiting for the signal to ignite. The pressure inside the diverging nozzle is we can see a flow separation layer, which as the pressure inside increases. 3 seconds until launch. The engines are checked to ensure they are The time has come for the solid rocket boosters The solid rocket boosters are 45 meters long fuel, a rubbery mixture that combines both The oxidizer, ammonium perchlorate, makes was the aluminium fuel We need a way to ignite the entire column, The igniter itself was essentially a miniature by an even smaller miniature solid rocket To ensure extremely quick combustion, this orifice. When it comes to solid rocket motors, the it will burn, rapidly producing the heat and of solid propellant. Once this happened there was no turning back the arming sequence to prevent it happening The first part of the arming sequence began device in the top skirt of the solid rocket booster This pin locked a safety device in place, position by accident. When it was rotated into position on command, NASA detonator through a tunnel to the igniter When it fires, it begins the rapid chain of highest thrust, but the entire rocket is still hold down posts, 4 on each solid rocket booster. These hold down posts anchor the solid rockets 711 millimeter long and 88 millimeter wide The lower side of the bolt is tensioned using kind of explosive nut, a frangible nut. [FOOTAGE] On two occasions (STS-2 and STS-92) two of something NASA described as stud hang ups. These issues did not stop the space shuttle rocket boosters and 3 main engines one or to stop the Space Shuttle from taking off. These hold down posts were primarily designed over while the 3 main engines were brought wind. However if 4 or more stud hang ups occurred and so a redesign was introduced for STS-126, This new system linked the two pyrotechnic within 50 microseconds of each other. A delay of up to 250 microseconds was possible as the main issue causing the so-called stud [REF] The shuttle is now free, with the largest in human space flight powering it upwards. Each of the solid rocket boosters provided double that of the Falcon 9 first stage (7.6 But the very notion of using solid rocket met with extreme concern. Using solid rocket boosters for human space They were nearly exclusively used for military The solid fuel allowing them to stand ready, However, once ignited there is little that of propellant is ignited at once. There are no pumps or valves that can lower Once ignited, they stay ignited until all This, ofcourse, comes with extreme control To begin, the engine needs to be throttled As fuel is used the weight of the rockets If the thrust isn't lowered the rocket could and disintegrate. An improperly designed fuel column could make cavity will result in an increase in thrust However, many different thrust profiles can A pointed star cavity will start with higher but rapidly decrease in thrust, as the points decreases. This effect is increased by increasing the the igniter had 40. Nearly every illustration online shows the continuous cylinder If this was the design of the fuel channel, The surface area of a circular internal cavity the cavity's diameter and circumference would This is not how the solid rocket boosters The upper section of the solid rocket booster This shape was created with this mandrel placed was poured in. This shape then transitioned into a circular The diameter increased toward the nozzle. This design provided elevated thrust at ignition, gradually to lower the maximum dynamic pressure decreasing by 33% 50 seconds into flight. When filling the solid rocket booster segments matching with its contemporary segment on This allowed the two segments to be filled there were any inconsistencies in the mix on the left and right side of the shuttle, would not drive it ofcourse. However, all 5 of the nozzles are capable during ascent and 80% of the steering power and increased distance from the central axis The Space Shuttles aerodynamic flight surfaces they did actuate to reduce aerodynamic stress 7 seconds after take off, with the Space Shuttle mph), a roll programme is initiated, through of the solid rocket boosters [Footage] with actuators mounted inside the aft skirt There are 2 hydraulic actuators on each nozzle The space shuttle turns over 180 degrees and placing the Shuttle on a heading towards its on the shuttle's wings, and providing the windows. [Footage] Ofcourse, this 180 degree rotation would not simply rotated on the launch pad, but the The position of the service tower, and all it, locked the Space Shuttle into this orientation, than to build a new launch pad. 45 seconds into the flight something fascinating The space shuttle exceeds the speed of sound, no longer reach the astronauts. So you don't hear those rocket motors that But now you hear the air rushing down the the atmosphere, and it sounds like a train going across the rough blankets and tiles And as the space shuttle races higher and progressively thinner, even this sound begins for the last 1520 seconds of first stage, you're still on the solid rocket boosters And it will get even quieter as the solid supply 2 minutes into the flight. Lowering chamber pressures trigger sensors these fail a backup system based simply on Once triggered the thrust vectoring system neutral position and the orbiter is commanded The SRBs are attached to the external tank Through 3 struts on the lower section of the each held in place by frangible connections At the same time 8 separation motors, 4 on bottom, fire. These were also solid motors and provided the SRBs safely detached from the space shuttle This solid rocket booster separation process most on his first flight. picture this, you're sitting on top of the to the tank. So when those explosive bolts let go, it's And then the booster separation motors, which away from the shuttle so it doesn't recontact windshield. So it's staging instead of there being this it's this big bang, and then you're in this sep motors are over the windshield, and it's And then very quickly you get through that of you. So that's really the only surprise going uphill At this point the SRBs are continuing to climb upon reaching their apogee, roughly a minute to earth, eventually releasing a series of and land in the ocean to be recovered and Meanwhile the Orbiter is continuing its journey Second stage is smooth. Matter of fact, most astronauts will call start to build up and you're getting pushed And then we throttle the engines back when So there's a lot of aerodynamics going on And for the structural integrity, we go ahead wings could come off if you accelerated a for a bad day. Under the power of the 3 main engines, fed the external tank, the shuttle continues its This external tank is a bit of an anomaly, reusable when it was first conceived, with the orbiter itself. In fact, the Space Shuttle was envisioned Ultimately funding challenges forced the Space and the Air Force was approached to bolster further from the original vision. Primarily in an increased cargo bay capacity The external tank was however the largest Gone was the idea of a manned external tank What would have saved money in the long run Relying instead on an extendable external A massive non-reusable structure that would The external was heavy. It wasn't simply two pressurized tanks, responsible for transmitting enormous loads, system. The structural backbone. Connecting to both the solid rocket boosters In order to do this the external tank had It was 47 meters long and weighed 33.5 metric Its aluminum skin is reinforced with strengthening This was essentially a massive thermos flask cryogenic fuel inside, finally the entire insulation foam, which alone weighed 2.2 tonnes. The first two space shuttle missions featured latex, which was removed to save a quarter The liquid oxygen tank was located on top It's much smaller than the liquid hydrogen and this is part of why the liquid oxygen as it pushes the rocket's center of gravity flight. If a rocket is traveling straight up drag The location of the center of pressure is surfaces and engines, but the rocket rotates by the placement of mass, because of this rocket, as it moves the center of gravity [REF] Imagine a rocket flying with its orientation a gust of wind knocks it off balance it introduces through the center of pressure, and the rocket Returning the rocket to its original position. If the center of gravity was below the center the rocket would be unstable. So, the dense liquid oxidiser was placed on This came with the added benefit of allowing external tank, as the hydrogen tank is much The intertank is a load bearing structure There is even a massive beam hidden within loads as the solid rocket motors attempt to The lower support strut holding the solid created by the upwards thrust of the booster, compression. The forward attachment point to the orbiter intertank. [REF] Ofcourse, all of this liquid oxidiser and on the orbiter. The liquid oxygen exits the tank here, this 46 centimeters wide. Big enough to crawl through. When the liquid oxygen begins to flow, it flow a massive whirlpool could form. With the weight of all this fluid swirling massive instability issues, or it could even the engine. So an anti-vortex and anti-sloshing baffles the oxidiser exits. Liquid oxygen travels down this pipe into the length outside of the liquid hydrogen point. This connection point connects physically for the liquid oxygen and liquid hydrogen. To the left and right of this truss connection Which mated directly to corresponding plates The left plate provided a connection for liquid for liquid oxygen. Each also had gaseous lines that brought back engine to their respective tanks. This was vital in order to maintain ullage Ullage is the volume of gas above a liquid and hydrogen tanks. The pressure of this volume has to be maintained If the pressure is allowed to lower the structural The gaseous hydrogen used to pressurize the line after it went through the regenerative of the turbine exhaust manifold of the low Liquid oxygen does not pass through this regenerative into a gas to pressurize the tanks. It instead was tapped off here at the outlet through a heat exchanger around the turbine : on each plate too, made up of smaller electrical tank and solid rocket boosters, while also the orbiter's computers. Finally there was also liquid hydrogen recirculation liquid hydrogen engine chill down sequence circulated through the feed lines, valves If this didn't occur bubbles could form. The time for main engine cutoff is quickly The process will be triggered by a predetermined per hour, however it can be triggered by fuel level. There are eight propellant depletion sensors. The four fuel depletion sensors are located However, the liquid oxygen sensors were located There was also an extra 500 kilograms of liquid mixture ratio. Together these ensured that in the event the depletion, that main engine cut off occurred As oxidizer rich engine shutdowns severely [REF] The time has now come for the main engines separate. Frangible nuts once again explode to separate [Footage] The external tank begins to float away, leaving exposed, and fixing that is the next challenge. you've got to close those doors. That's one of the first things you do. And that's very, very critical because if because you'll burn up during reentry. And so that's one of the things that we've has ever really thought about, or no one has If you had to do an EVA to close those doors, back to the back here somehow. And maybe hold on to the, there's just no those. But we talk about it, we come up with some Never had to be done. There's never had to be done and there was Thankfully these doors successfully closed The external tank is now on its way back to opening in the oxygen tank that causes the With the thrust of the main engines gone the a serene moment that filled Bruce with so rookie astronaut. Now, we always took a nice closeup picture if you'll remember, the external tank was reused. The boosters would fly back or splash down 'em, the shuttle would come back. But the external tank, as soon as we got off earth and break up and burn up, reentering pieces. So we always wanted to take a nice big closeup it to see if there was any abnormality with fix before the next shuttle took off. So my very first job as a rookie was to, as G was to get unstrapped out of my seat, float out, float up to the overhead window while was pitching discovery over on its back so as it's following away back to earth. Well, I floated up to the overhead window Bruce, you should be seeing it. And I said, yeah, Dick, I do. It's awesome. It's beautiful. He said, well, why aren't you taking any pictures? I said, pictures of what? Oh, the tank. I was so blown away by seeing Earth for the on my first job and I was supposed to have Well, by the time I took a picture of the it was just beautiful. It was just seeing the earth for the first experience. This is just the first stage of the incredible This was a reusable spacecraft designed to need to survive and work in orbit, including and orbital maneuvering systems. We will be continuing this engineering odyssey Sharing the devices and engineering that went mission. Orbit. Filled with incredible stories from Bruce and the engineering that made it possible. Which is available on Nebula right now, which to the final stage of its mission, re-entry. If you don't already have Nebula, for a A one off, one time payment, to get lifelong service. Or maybe you have Nebula already and would from recurring subscription payments, while without taking on venture capital money. Or you could be a happy member already and your life, and for that we also just launched Whatever way you decide to sign up. You will be rewarded with exclusive video of series, detailing the logistics of arms fishing and much more. Or our own series about the Logistics of D-Day. And early access to Real Engineering videos engineering of the space shuttle, which you Normal yearly membership is 30 dollars a year, a month with the link in the description.