ANDREW HUBERMAN: Now, let's take and evaluate or think about what cannabis or ingest or a tincture, or Cannabis is very fast to In fact, within 30 seconds, and permeate throughout That's very, very fast. I mean if you contrast that with nicotine, depending on how that is a very fast and biologically active is THC, and CBD, and probably So within 30 seconds, it reaches And within 30 to going to reach its and have its peak Those aren't always but in the case of cannabis-- and again here, as a kind of umbrella the effects are going to peak after bringing those in some way or another. And the effects tend to to four hours, although depending on whether or not with the compound, psychologically familiar, but or whether or not the first and so on. THC, and CBD, and other are highly of what That is they have and they can actually pass Now every cell in your body, have a double layer of And of course, when they always think, oh, Most of the world seems to Here, we're talking about the around each tissue. In this case, we're talking And THC, and CBD, and the are highly lipophilic, get into essentially by flowing into them. They also remain in those So I know that a depending on whether for work, or for sport, or and THC, don't take but typically, if one smokes cannabis, et cetera-- it going to stay in and can be detected for at after ingestion. And there's a whole to accelerate the clearance. And it should just tell you isn't going to eliminate maybe partially in but certainly, in visceral fat in and around the it's going to harbor that THC for quite a long while, So if someone smokes cannabis very rapidly gets And the components that into the bloodstream able to access neurons and start having these at those endogenous and impacting the signaling leads to the subjective THC and CBD. So let's talk about what those are. Again, this is going to vary people are digesting sativa Just to remind you, those tend talkativeness. People who take to talk a lot more than Again, there are Of course, there are exceptions. I'm sure there are people although, I guess, if don't talk too much, you're Or if you're not, you're Joke intended. But in any event, but there are also And the sativas tend to energetic, again, the head high. And indica varieties tend of a sedative, Why in hell would they do that? OK, well, without going into the different systems of the we know for sure is present on an enormous number structures and neural varieties that act as a happy because in general at least at certain dosages, feel like they have ideas that want to share, tend to so it tends to increase focus. This is something that's not but it can-- especially can increase people's level Something they're watching, or music, it allows them to That's going to occur by in the so-called is just behind the forehead. And the prefrontal cortex of so-called limbic that is more stress oriented. The way to think about the such as the amygdala, which is that they aren't really There are circuits evaluating one's heart rate, et cetera, and And sorry to say but the is to detect danger, the And then the prefrontal on those systems like on a steed of horses that And so the sativa varieties in the prefrontal cortex That then leads to in stress because of the way can reduce activation Now that, of course, does not very stressed and they smoke sativa varieties or or ingest other We will talk about the paranoid and who might predict that would But I just want to give you a because as I mentioned before, to bind that CB1 receptor. Let's say in prefrontal in prefrontal cortex and then there will be a to the presynaptic neuron. And in the case of prefrontal it's increasing the release of neurotransmitter However, at the same time, that was brought binding the very same CB1 receptors, in such as the amygdala. And causing retrograde to the presynaptic but it's quieting the So this is interesting. We have the same brought into the body and brain, in this case, the CB1 on where those and which brain areas they are either causing and activation of to make you talkative, and focus, or they are causing So we have a seesaw effect increasing mood, and in the prefrontal cortex, and detection in the amygdala. And that's one of the reasons varieties of to enter these states of focus, Although, I don't flow states really are. That's for a and it's very poorly And I certainly don't want that cannabis increases flow always the case. And certainly, most often, But the idea here is that this and is shifting everything elevated mood, of heightened about whatever it is that And now, of course, whatever could be writing a communicating with somebody. But it could also trivial as watching cartoons, or trivial in its own of thinking about or the creative activity of cannabis, not So narrowed focus, elevated and yet energetic. That's the major effects of and this is a really underline except-- except in some individuals, but also depending on and propensity for ingest or smoke and regardless of whether or not III variety. OK, regardless of the people will experience Now, how do you predict who and paranoia and who relaxation, focus, and from ingesting or smoking a type Well, there is no And there's a lot of what I room lore, or peer-- not peer reviewed I mean, among friends, and out there that what is simply smoke more You hear that, oh, well, listen you simply need to use more. That is absolutely Everything we know about the is that they tend is increase the effects at given synapses and in and body. That is if someone experiences from a given strain of or from ingesting an or a particular kind of edible, to experience the same ingest that strain or variety. This is part of what's led I mean, there are a number but this is part of what's of highly-customized people will spend some the different strains of cannabis that work best for in particular contexts. I wish I could tell you is between 5 foot and you have blue that the sativa varieties are or that the sativa varieties panic attacks, I can't do that. The only way to be to actually experience those, which is certainly That's up to you. I'm not telling you what but there are no In fact, if you look it is not at all who have a heightened when they do not smoke cannabis as less paranoia inducing That's simply not the case. Now, what we can say for sure of effects, such as increased are largely due to like the prefrontal cortex. Now, unlike other compounds or neurotransmitter when we talk about the and I say, effects, biological I want you to keep in mind keep in mind that those opposite in direction. So let's just give I just mentioned that when that it tends to lead or generally leads of effects, heightened Whereas when they indica and its again, we're still talking about But now indica why would it improve the Or at least give that it improved the We'll talk about does for sleep in a little bit. But indica also activation of the amygdala in the brain. Again, binding the same CB1 signaling mechanisms that but it also tends to shut an area of the brain which is why indica varieties or I should say profound and sometimes in as well if it's consumed We'll talk about short, medium, occasional consumption So what I'd like from this component is first of all, the mechanism impacts the brain and body, is going to be And those CB1 receptors can or a brake on particular And there are going of different of different neural systems in whether or not people or some hybrid strain. And perhaps most if you didn't that I've said about the biology and the receptors, that there is no the effect of a given strain There has been as to whether or not people who anxious, or any number dimensions will respond But in fact, there Layer on top of that the can be fairly straightforward because there can be, at least a defined number of milligrams of milligrams of CBD. That's true for ingestibles. It's much harder to gauge of cannabis, especially if are obtained through a lot of clear information in that product. Now, this is all nowadays because of the and CBD products and cannabis including in the United States. But still many people are through sources where they don't bringing into their system. And so whether or not someone enhanced sense of mood and focus et cetera, or whether blown panic attacks, to predict based on Now, of course, we can and we are going to that create broad categories and high dose, frequent But unlike alcohol, we can't really of X amount of grams which is say, for X amount of And so I know a lot of people how often can they or how often can they eat in any number of its different Well, we have to really and we have to that there's a pretty loose is bringing into as they ingest THC and CBD. But even under conditions in it's very hard to predict So before moving into or not taking who shouldn't, what the and what some of the newer I just briefly want And I promise very briefly. I know I'm not often to be thorough for your sake. I want to make a very brief areas that are impacted and why THC and CBD have When somebody smokes doesn't matter what the if they experience and that's almost that's going to be in electrical activity we call the hippocampus. Hippocampus means seahorse. It's shaped like a seahorse. Anatomists like to name things But hippocampus, in particular short-term memory. That's true regardless one is using sativa, In general the going to be activated by is going to increase thinking to some activity. And that's more with the sativa varieties. The indica varieties before tend to lead to a in prefrontal cortex, And turn off thinking This is why indica used for relaxation and Regardless of whether or not and again, regardless of there is a general within the so-called basal Basal ganglia and of the brain that are planning and withholding would be the basal ganglia And the cerebellum in balance but also motor This is why people regardless of the to be less physically mobile. Other common effects are of the mouth. That's actually caused by the is a reduction in the and of tears and from the lacrimal glands of the presence of receptors in the And there tends with certain increase in appetite, And that has everything to do of CB1 receptors in and in particular, areas like the arcuate nucleus other areas as well, have tons of CB1 and activate the neurons that through two mechanisms. One is a cognitive mechanism with food and as well as the So the narrowing of focus You really crave pizza. It seems to be high fat, But really crave focus so that you're not But also signaling from to neurons within that regulate blood sugar. So there are strong effects that generally lead to So two parallel mechanisms. One within the brain, one within And so there's an array And as I mentioned are present all over in the brain, the spinal cord. In fact, the presence of CB1 largely explains the fact that although it's not can provide some pain relief. I should say some because or believe that they experience than they actually do. It actually has a lot to do with focusing on other things. But there does seem to be antipain effects of And that is exerted on CB1 receptors in So a broad array of place regardless of what strain you eat the cannabis, or And the broad array of effects that retrograde to activation or suppression [MUSIC PLAYING]