Translator: Tanya Cushman I have one of the best jobs in the world because I get to work energetic, creative and insightful. And they happen to be 14 I really do think and I think that's probably why, I sometimes don't know how to act, so you'll forgive me. So, inspiring the students of the future. What really works? 37 years of teaching experience research-based teaching techniques Relationship is huge, What I'd like to look at first I think probably most of us remember this is probably what we You remember the teacher the students were in nice neat rows, and the teacher, the source of authority, who regurgitated it back up on a test designed to measure Now, I have to admit, I love lecturing, but my students don't always love it; it does not always inspire. So I was thinking, what really inspires? Years ago, I was doing standing in the lunchroom, being visible, watching kids go through and as I watched the kids it occurred to me And so I said to myself, &quot;Self, Let the kids have choices.&quot; And so that's what I did. I converted my classroom to a situation where student choice along with four other Cs: Collaboration, communication, Actually, over ten years ago, identified those last as essential 21st century skills and I agree wholeheartedly. I've added choice to the top of the list not as a skill for kids to learn, but rather as a characteristic By choice, I mean a situation where many learning activities designed to meet the many And the kids love it as much Now, I think we're made for learning this way. Imagine our early hominid ancestors Don't you know that finding required critical thinking It definitely required I mean, you wouldn't want No way. And collaboration required communication. And then I imagine those people reliving the adventures of the day's hunt. They must have had smiles on their faces when they were retelling And I know they smiled when they put those cave because creativity is a uniquely human, pleasurable, satisfying activity. So I believe our brains And since they're wired for the five Cs, that authentic learning will happen when kids are allowed And not just learning, but I think kids will enjoy and even be inspired in this way. Now, this requires - A classroom setup based from a teacher-centered classroom And this requires the teacher to remove becoming more of a guide on the side But this opens up opportunities to not merely teach, but to coach, to mentor, to nurture and inspire, and that's why I love it so much. Now, time out. It's important for me to mention I stand on the shoulders of giants. Remember Plutarch? He said it a long time ago: &quot;The mind is not a vessel but wood that needs igniting.&quot; And more recently, Albert Einstein: &quot;Education is not the learning of facts, All right. You're going I'm going to get real One of the absolute, my professional life just a few years ago. (Laughter) Changed my life, bumping into him in that wax museum. (Laughter) What a moment it was. So I stand on the shoulders of giants, giants like Montessori and Piaget, and Dr. Sam Postlewait, in his biology classes back in the 1960s. I'm a product of the Purdue that's where I fell in love with biology. I stand on the shoulders of giants, like Tom Watts and Steve Randak, who were doing this back in the 1970s I stand on the shoulders of many giants and special ed teachers. So, I'm a product of all of those mentors. So, collaboration, communication, and student choice, what's it look like? If I could just share with you briefly I've taken my ninth-grade biology classes and divided the school year At the beginning of each unit, the students are given a menu of all the smorgasbord activities Now, this has been challenging because I've had to write so that no matter what combination based on their learning styles, and no matter what order they'll still achieve It's been fun; it's been a challenge. But the kids love it. They love having the choice, and there are many times when they and that's okay. One of the things that is not required - There are two activities normally One is the test at the end of the unit, and the other one I've taken several summers and written these self-paced, that the kids work through. They're designed to take the place Kids have told me in private, &quot;Mr. Ruhl, we like the tutorials And that's okay, that's perfectly okay, because it's all about them. And so if you came to visit you would see some kids You would very likely see some kids It's possible you would see some kids watching a video related to the unit, writing out answers to questions I'm sure you would see students You would probably notice some kids tending to their ongoing and I know for sure, you would probably find around an educational game about some biological concept And you would likely see some kids doing some hands-on, minds-on simulations, learning about some other I know you would see filling out what are called that are designed to get them self-evaluate their efforts, take past knowledge And there's one other activity on the menu It's called &quot;Arts and Entertainment.&quot; It's on the menu in every unit, and this is where the students take and at home, develop some kind and then present it on the last day of the unit. Arts and Entertainment has to be nontraditional; it's only limited by their imagination. So they can come in and perform a song, a skit, present a movie, present a model that they've built, poetry, any nontraditional way of something they've learned in the unit. For example, these two young ladies took it upon themselves to build using gumdrops to represent the atoms. These two young ladies - they're sisters - they happened to decide the fact that they each inherited and half of their genes from dad. (Laughter) Got to love them. This method of teaching, 37 years experience - is not only effective, but it's fun because it allows me to sit down while I'm team-teaching it gives me the opportunity to sit down with a group of two, and respond to questions It allows me the opportunity and, teachers, when you do this, if you do this, the whole situation creates Because by removing yourself you seem to become less important, but paradoxically, in reality you become more important because when working you're freed up to use I have ever run across in 37 years. They're as old as the hills; it doesn't matter these two always work. I'm talking about two loves. First, the teacher's love for the subject And secondly, the teacher's First, let's talk about the passion. You know what I remember I remember Jenny on the bus. I'm not kidding. Third grade. No, the thing I remember most is I remember our teacher would read to us for 10 to 15 minutes; she would read to us &quot;Tom Sawyer.&quot; What an adventure! We had black-and-white TV, we had cartoons on TV, but this was different. It was obvious to us and she was passionate Tom Sawyer! What an adventure! At the end of the 10-minute I couldn't wait until the next day to find out what would happen I don't know if Miss Hershey I should have written her a letter She inspired me to be a reader. But you see, she wasn't saddled and state-mandated, and so she was free to teach and inspire. I'll never forget her. She means the world to me. I should have written her a long time ago. Then for that other love. Teacher's love for the kids. If there are any teachers I'm not talking about warm, I'm talking about genuine, decisional, It motivates; it inspires in a powerful way. I'm talking about the kind of love that - C.S. Lewis wrote about it He described it as &quot;agape love,&quot; a self-sacrificial kind of love, a love that's passionately committed This kind of love is not always emotional, but it is always decisional. So, teachers, great news. This means you can love your kids Does that ever happen? Because this kind of love it's decisional, and it motivates and inspires and it's as old as the hills. So, teachers ... an airtight lesson plan is important. A well-organized, consistent Effective use of technology is important. The standards are important, but, please, don't let them All these things are important, but what the kids is you. Don't forget that sixth C: Caring. That is the most effective, most powerful, getting their attention, What they're going to remember most and asked them about and their part-time jobs. What they're going to remember most is that you just asked them in the hall What they're going to remember most is you worked really hard to learn their names What they're going to remember most is that you went to their athletic events and their concerts. What they're going to remember most is that you led the class in loud, off-key choruses What they're going to remember most you put their newspaper clippings up and you told them to autograph them, and you told them to do that so that some day when their autographs it would fund your retirement. (Laughter) What they're going to remember and that you were real, and that you had the ability and laugh with them. So, what's really important? How do we motivate? How do we inspire? Allow kids to involve themselves in student-choice collaboration, communication, critical thinking and creativity. But don't forget that sixth C. It's probably the most important one because the greatest of these is love. Thank you. (Applause)