Hey there guys, Paul here from TheEngineeringMindset.com. In this video, we're going to be looking Now this follows on from our series on electrical engineering, so do check out the other videos if you've not done so already. Links are in the video description below. Coming up, we'll be looking at how with electricity, and why only an alternating in transformers. How a basic transformer works, then we'll look at step up and finally, we'll finish on three phase transformers. Now there are two types of electricity, AC and DC. But transformers can only work using AC, or Alternating Current. And if you don't know the then please, first of all, watch the video on electricity basics first. Again, you can find links to these videos, and other useful videos, in the video description below. When we connect an AC generator to a closed loop of cable, a current will able to and the direction of the backwards and forwards, with the rotation of the generator. The alternation means that the and minimum point during the cycle, which gives it its sine wave pattern when connected to an oscilloscope. Now you can think of this as it changes direction, and reaches its maximum and minimum point. As the current flows through the cable, it will emit a magnetic field. If we pass DC current through the cable, the magnetic field will remain constant. But, if we pass AC then the magnetic field will increase and decrease in strength, and changes polarity as the current changes direction. If we place multiple cables together and pass current through them, then the magnetic fields will combine to create a stronger magnetic field. If we then wrap the cable into a coil, the magnetic field will If we then place a second to the first coil, and then we pass AC, alternating current, through the the first coil, then the magnetic field it creates will induce a current And this magnetic force will push and pull on the free electrons The key component here is is changing polarity as well as intensity. This change in intensity and direction of the magnetic field constantly disturbs the free and this forces them to move. This movement is known as Electromotive force does not occur when we pass DC current and that's because the so the electrons are not The only time it will when the primary circuit or when the voltage is And that's because these to the magnetic field. Therefore, we use alternating current as this change occurs constantly. Now, the problem with this setup is that a lot of the magnetic is being wasted because it's not in range So, to fix this engineers place a core of ferromagnetic material such as iron, in a loop between the primary and secondary coils. Now, this loop guides the to the secondary coil, so that they will share the magnetic field and this makes the transformer Now, the use of an iron core some energy will be lost through something known as Eddy currents, where the current swells around the core and this heats up the transformer, and this means that the To reduce this engineers to form the core, and this greatly reduces Transformers are or step down transformers, and these are used to increase or decrease the voltage simply by using a within the coil on a secondary side. In a step up transformer the voltage is increased and this will mean that But don't worry too much right now about why that occurs. We'll look at this in a later To increase the voltage we just need to add more turns to the coil on the secondary side than the primary side. In a step down transformer, the voltage is decreased which means that the current increases. To do this we just use on the secondary side For example, a power station needs to it is generated, over to a city some distance away. The power station will to increase the voltage and reduce the current, as this will reduce the losses for the long transmission cables. Then, once it reaches a city, this will need to be reduced to make it safe and usable by buildings and homes, so there will need to be The Transformers for commercial buildings and power stations are usually in a three You'll see this placed and they'll look something like this. These three phase transformers three separate transformers or they can be built into one large unit with a shared iron core. In this set up, the coils will typically within one another with a higher voltage coil on the outside and the lower voltage coil Now these coils are so that only the magnetic field will pass between the two coils. To connect the two sides there are many different configurations, but one of the most commonly used, is to connect the coils in a configuration known as Delta Wye, sometimes referred to as delta star. This refers to the in the Delta configuration and the secondary side being wired in a wire configuration. The centre point of the wye side where all three connectors meet, is often grounded which allows for neutral we'll cover transformer connections and calculations in other as this can get quite complex, so for now, simply focus on how they work to build your base knowledge. Okay, that's it for this video. Thank you very much for watching. I hope you've enjoyed this and it has helped you. If so then please don't and share this video. You can also follow us on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Google Plus as well as our website, TheEngineeringMindset.com. (upbeat music)