In this video I'm going to talk about the Yes, I am the kind of person who gets excited understood what makes the different parts of Hey guys, welcome back to my channel. If you're new here, I'm Ryan. I'm a composer for film, TV, and video games, but I also love figuring out and talking For more videos about form, music theory, and everything related to writing So there are two fundamental formulas, Last time I talked about the period form and The sentence is an under discussed It can work really well for main themes, B themes, A lot of books about musical form only focus on lot of real music what they describe doesn't The first time I heard about was in Arnold Schoenberg's You might know of Schoenberg as the father tonal harmony is really solid and his books are But I didn't really come to appreciate what made and why those differences mattered, until I And there I really understood how a really different trajectory for your theme. So there is a lot to get through in this video. First I'll talk about what the sentence form is and we'll look at what I call &quot;the Then I'll talk a bit about what the period and when you might We'll take a look at a second Then I'll write a brand new melody using the sentence form to show you how And to finish it off, I'll talk about why learning about the sentence form was So let's get into what the form actually is. We'll do a quick overview and You start with a two bar basic idea. Repeat the basic idea, with or without variation. Bars five and six are called where things have a feeling of forward motion. And that leads us to a cadence So let's take a listen to the opening theme Just like we did with the period form, But what the sentence does differently is that we repeat the basic idea. It could be an exact In the case of the Beethoven he's kept but adapted it to the V chord. There's no question that it's a being played in a different way. What's really important about these first four is that there's a feeling of harmonic stability. A lot of times this can mean that there's or the whole thing is on the I chord, but harmonic progression, harmonic forward movement. Even if you are using different chords necessarily telling a story, and especially So for example in the Beethoven, when he repeats but just because we have a I chord going like, a I to V half cadence. There's not really this harmonic direction. It's more like oscillating harmonies. And when we return to the tonic in bar five it still feels like we're kind of If you look at the bass line you can even this neighbor tone motion which is not as But next is where the magic happens, because I like to think of the continuation movement in the theme, and a lot of times the This might mean more motivic units in less time, Generally there is just a sense of more, because we're getting motion, Things are actually happening Whatever it is, there's a sense A of the beginning to point B of the cadence. So in the case of the Beethoven, he reaches towards a new melodic He has a climbing motion in the bass line. He has a new chord every bar instead And all those things come together to make this middle section feel really You really get swept along. And then in bar seven and eight, just like And just like in the period form, this This could be a perfect cadence, What it really means is that there's some sort This is really important so that your listener to have a little breath and space before the If you neglect to have clear cadences in your It would be like writing an no indentation, no line breaks for new paragraphs. It would just be a rambling mess. So don't neglect your cadences. So Beethoven does a few nice After having a very active melody he simplifies Both of these things help to after the rush of that continuation. He ends on the V chord for a half which allows for some space before he There's a very strong feeling demarcation, that that first theme has ended and So now that we've talked about theme let's listen through it one more So how does the sentence form If you haven't watched my video on the check that out first, and In some ways the period and the sentence form They both start with a two bar basic idea. They both have a repetition of that What's really different about and the way that that repetition So if you remember, in the period after the basic idea we have a contrasting There's definitely a sense of balance, and also kind of a question now we're saying it again In contrast. the sentence stays pretty It's kind of really holding us down. We're going to need something We're ready for something to happen. And then we get that continuation, so there's a lot of energy and When you hear the first two bars of a theme there's really no way to know Is this going to be a period? Is this going to be a sentence? Until you get to bar three, and that So how do you decide which one to use when? I like to oversimplify it a bit and think of the and calmness, contrasted with the sentence So if I was writing a love theme or maybe a If I was writing an adventure a sonata I'm probably going to use the sentence. So to borrow and twist a metaphor I like to think of the period as a There are plenty of cases where you but kind of oversimplifying this, putting make quick decisions when I'm writing about So our next example of a sentence form comes from the track One Summer's Day. So the first thing we have, as In bars three and four we have a repeat and there's some subtle but kind of There is no doubt to anyone listening bars three and four are a Notice the harmony in the first four bars. There is this IV-V-I progression but it's more affirming of C major than it is a There's not really a strong sense of cadence or Really it just kind of feels like we're And especially because of that repetition of Things are kind of staying in place. It's not until the continuation and he uses two very classic The phrasing fragments from two and the harmony moves by step which is By tangible I mean you can in the chords with the stepwise progression. The fragments and the stepwise climb If I had to, I guess I would If you took that C and put it down just a half The actual chord itself is not important and that feeling to me is very There's this unresolved punctuation mark. It really feels like there's a breath, So we've looked at all the separate parts, now let's listen to the whole theme So now let's write a brand new melody easy it is to use, and maybe some of Any of the moments where I'm kind of noodling for ideas, I'm probably just going to skip So you can see we're starting here with a blank but knowing we have this it's actually going to make things pretty easy. So the first thing I'm going to do is pick a key. For the period form video I used C I'm going to pick something a little different. Maybe we could use a minor key. How about G minor or something? I'm picking that somewhat at random. So we need to come up with some sort of going to be kind of the basic, the main motive Exploring on the keyboard right now. So I've got a basic idea here. And the great thing about the sentence form So I'm going to copy paste that over here. So I could just stay on the G I could maybe move the whole thing up a third. I kind of like that idea, I'm leaning towards moving down to the Eb. G minor, Eb are both tonic harmonies. The I minor and the bVI chord functions, so we're not It's really more of a kind of color So just one more time where Now we get to the interesting So probably what I'm going to This was two bar ideas before. I want to look into my existing motivic kind of half as much information So I think that this right here is some of rhythm going on. So I might try to explore that, especially that. So probably what I'm going to try moving up towards some sort of climax. One thing I noticed is that Gm goes down a third to the Eb so maybe I That would land us on some subdominant harmony, and that would be a good This kind of driving progression we're going So we'll have this. So now I'm going to try to adapt my motive well over that Cm from where we left off. As I've mentioned before, the ending of your theme It's the part that people don't remember because you're kind of liquidating your Keep your interesting motivic material and then at the end simmer All right so here's playback, with Sibelius So why was it such a big deal for me Well for so long I had no problem but eventually i'd hit a point where I got stuck. I felt like I needed some sort of continue things forward, to get the piece moving. I might have eight bars, I might be able and then I would just feel Maybe i'd just been layering on top, it was getting bigger and bigger It wasn't until I really understood the and how that gives us so much movement, in contrast to the basic ideas before it, that how to get things moving and especially driving So now I use the sentence form all the time. Whenever I have any kind of transition section When I have a B theme. Most of my A themes even use this form It gives you forward motion. You can extend it and repeat the which is really helpful for scoring a scene. And it really gave me what I was missing of actually going somewhere, of something really There is a lot you can do with the sentence So you can extend the form and make it longer. You can shrink it down and make it shorter. You could drop the repeat of the basic idea. You could get super adventurous So please let me know if you're interested How it compares to the period form, how more adventurous, more interesting, and how to And also some of the hybrid forms where the period and sentence kind of merge Remember to subscribe to the channel so you Check out my video on how to write a B theme, and please leave a comment letting