After covering the recruitment and training and soldiers, it's finally time to cover the at the time of the great reforms of King Philip for their astounding successes in taking over military stood proudly unrivalled in the East for historian Polybius claimed that the Macedonian terms of bravery, discipline, patriotism Although it was their infantry that was made it was the Macedonian cavalry that represented its time, and long afterwards. So for the recruitment of both their infantry and For recruiting their infantry, the Macedonians was broken up into several cantons, with each of soldiers for the king's army, depending household having to provide one eligible man would then be responsible for selecting only on both physical and mental qualities. All who were excluded from the army. But even then, they different age groups and professions, including what all these men had in common was an inbuilt largely popularised in the form of stories, and the Odyssey had a big influence on the minds former explicitly emphasises the qualities of but also revenge, overconfidence and pride at the the qualities of a perfect man, and many recruits qualities. Even Alexander the Great was said his pillow, and was a big fan of Achillies. So male population had the proper values and morals then undergo rigorous physical tests to assess with only the most capable men being selected training awaited the soldiers, which this time the guidance of experienced instructors, many recruits would be taught the discipline required Apart from this, they would periodically disciplines. They would not only workout but and even artillery. Long distance races with Macedonians being seen as prominent fighters the infantry to carry bags of flour on their backs trained them for carrying all of their weapons, which ensured the Macedonian army had Philip II understood the importance of troops on long training exercises across including plains, forests, and mountains, to To ensure Macedonia always had a large pool of event of an emergency, the men were entitled and after their enlistment, until the age of 30. This as only the middle and upper classes of the social ensured that if needed, a total of 16,000 recruited from all cantons if needed... But it was the cavalry that served as the not the infantry, and thus, it was the component of the army, and the one that And speaking of battles, toray's sponsor, World yourself into a modern warfare experience! They whether you're a novice or a pro, which They have tank destroyers, artillery, light, completely up to you. Whether you rush in guns or hang back and take them out from afar, there's tanks! Historical accuracy and inspiration authentic. If you're a NEW player, you can use you enter the game for the first time, which 250 thousand credits, 7 days of premium each! So click our special link in For the recruitment and training of the Macedonian or Companion cavalry of Philip II and Alexander elite portion of their army... These feared they were first recruited from the aristocratic to go through a 4 year training and education 50 were chosen every year to attend the highly Unlike the recruitment of the infantry, which the School of Pages only admitted sons of only the Once they got admitted, the teenagers could rest society, as King Philip II himself would be their a young Alexander the Great would be a mere pupil the Royal gymnasiums twice a day. As part of the to wear a simple tunic year round, and having respect by providing table service for adults by having to select and train with one horse for Bucephalus would be ridden into battle Coming from land-owning families, horsemanship them being taught from the age of 4. So for boys would then be expected to perfect their horse before moving up to handling a spear and and spatial awareness would be taught to both to avoid colliding with one another in battle. The School of Pages would not but also education from leading intellectuals the boys. King Philip II famously brought lecture the boys and serve as their life coach, speakers and leaders of the state. These teachers which could sometimes even go against the in Greek literature, natural science, oratory and history, as some remains of ancient very grateful for the teachings of Aristotle and to his father. As one gave him life, and the Alongside this priceless physical and mental strict system for punishing and disciplining or fell behind. Philip was noted to have flogged into a public house. More serious offences, such or endangering others, could even get them punishments would often extend even onto the strong incentive to teach their children to behave to the extremes of disowning their children But despite these extremes, the children developed looked up to King Phillip as a second father, whom lives long after adulthood. The King would earn the same burdens, sparring sessions, exercises and role model and teacher. In a similar way, many of were his former classmates, like Ptolemy, who of Egypt. To instil these protective instincts, at for the King in times of War and Peace. In doing politics, warfare, and the minor tasks of running loyalty of future elites and the stability of the their future was secure, as they would grow to leaders of their society. Keep in mind that this the Athenians, who prided themselves in having It is said that the loving family bond between the Alexander would fear that his father wouldn't which would instead likely go to his classmates. son any special attention or relief from more than an equal of his classmates.. Even his closest companions were with him all the time. a fellow companion named Cleitus and had called refusing to get involved in the royal banter between friends, with Cleitus even The School of Pages was not yet complete which went hand in hand with their graduation, could join the companion cavalry. To do this, Similarly to the Spartans, the Macedonians saw the and used it to simulate the struggles of battle Alexander would be very fond of hunts during 'hunting was a way to learn about war." Both and were dangerous, unpredictable, labour and very sharp senses. This would all add teaching them to be always on the During these hunts, they were formed into groups forest, but also their fellow companions, as of who was the best. They would usually hunt must be killed with a spear rather than an arrow. which only warriors could have the honour hunting was not just an obligation, but a It is only during military campaigns that they exercises, as they would be able to easily and could counter the many neighbouring in ambushes in large forests. This most feared and respected warriors that who were trained both intellectually and The boys that proved themselves would finally only now become official citizens, moving Macedonian society, and they would finally there would be dozens of 18 year olds joining the schools. But it would be the 50 from the School the highest distinction in Macedonian society, and Let us know your opinion on and how it compares to the training of other state you would like us to cover next. I would researchers and animators that made this video