- And that was the trigger point for me when I saw what autism not just this medical definition, suddenly it was something that I could immensely relate to. When you've spent your whole to finally find people and a and do say crazy things like, &quot;I understand,&quot; it's absolutely life-changing and to find out other people have had this experience as well. Hi everyone, welcome back to you're here with Paul. So today's video topic is; Are You Undiagnosed Autistic? How to tell if you're So this is part two in for this month's patrons choice topic. So, if you haven't seen last the online autism quotient test, then you may wanna check that out as well. So, in this video today we of what does it actually So I've broken the video So I'll start with the and looking at behavior. Because very often we look at and all of these things to try and tell if someone is autistic and there's that can be problematic. So I'll give you some background as to why that can be problematic. Secondly, I'm going to describe for you the inner experience of of what it's like to be autistic. And what you will find is, if you really strongly then that's a very that you might be on the spectrum. And thirdly, if this is you, then what should you do next? What are some next steps This video is for you if you are thinking that you might be on So it's sometimes it can be as I'll discuss later but very rarely is it helpful to try So if someone in your life is displaying autistic characteristics, then this video might help you but it should not be used to try and diagnose them from afar. If you wanna help your probably the best thing you to get to know them and what they need and help them to accept Okay so number one, the trouble with looking such as behavior. So the reason I wanted to start with this is because the diagnosis essentially looks at behavior and other externally visible And while that might who are essentially just as we get older, we develop coping strategies to overcome Right we learn to mask, we learn different ways to and overcompensate for other situations. So in short, external does not tell the whole story. Masking is essentially so that others don't see them. It's repressing certain behaviors, It's pretending to be normal, it's doing what you think you should do at the expense of what And I don't mean sometimes instead of what you'd like to do, right? Everyone masks sometimes, So it's actually possible and not even realize that you're masking. So it's actually quite after receiving a diagnosis as an adult your friends and family you're suddenly being more autistic and you never used to do this and you're only doing this now because you've somehow got it in your head that you have autism. Whereas actually it's always been inside you've just been repressing So, if you are those friends and family, it's important to is trusting you with showing that they've been hiding for because they didn't to be themselves. So anyway, that's why in this video we'll be focusing on of what it feels like to be autistic, rather than you know looking on how to spot autism from the outside. Okay so number two, three the autistic experience. So I should be upfront that I'm from my own experience, so they might not apply but I have met hundreds of autistic people and these three experiences So I would be really interested to hear how you relate, if you I'd be really interested to these and especially if to one or two aspects of them that would be interesting to hear as well, because we are a very So the first defining experience And I don't mean just I mean when we call Asperger's sometimes, right? I have a friend of mine actually asked her mother like she didn't think, &quot;Oh maybe I'm adopted.&quot; She asked her mother, &quot;Am I an alien? &quot;Am I actually a different species &quot;to all of the other kids in my class? &quot;Because I just don't seem &quot;I can't relate to them.&quot; And as an adult, you know that, no we are part of the same But as a child, she actually thought that was a legitimate possibility that maybe she was an alien That's how different And another example of this is, if I go to the park and I I'm not thinking, &quot;Oh I need to join in,&quot; I'm thinking they're ducks on the lake, they can swim around by themselves and I have no compulsion with them. Similarly if I did jump in and try to swim around with them, they'd run away. So, similarly with my especially primary school I'd look at my peers and think, &quot;Wow they're interesting, &quot;check out these funny little creatures &quot;and what they're doing aren't they cute?&quot; But I didn't necessarily to join in and do what they were doing because it just didn't register And the opposite experience If you do want to join in, you don't know how to do that how are they all doing the same thing and joining in this thing? When I run up to these ducks in the park they all fly away. So what am I doing wrong? So a second defining experience is of not being believed. And this relates to the in the sense that if I am so different in one particular way, when I share that difference with others, people think I must be joking. So what are some examples? If I hear something that they think I didn't hear If I smell something that other people don't or if I'm affected by something, it's very hard for people to believe that I have trouble reading, right? I have an engineering degree, how can you have trouble reading? Surely that doesn't make sense. What do you mean when I take suddenly you can't and your executive functioning skills fall through the floor. That doesn't make sense. Surely you must be exaggerating. So, when you do share something you know to be true and the response is no no no no no, surely you must be exaggerating that can't possibly be true. That can have a very crushing effect on your own self esteem and self belief, and make it even less likely for you to advocate for in the future, because I know that if I tell if I tell someone the lights they'll just be like, &quot;Yeah, yeah, &quot;I know the lights are bright Well actually no not There's actually a term for invalidating the experience of another person, it's called gas lighting a chronic lack of self confidence, because I essentially think because whenever I share they tell me that it and I must be making it up. Number three, is something that I'll call social confusion. It's not necessarily a because some autistic people have learned certain coping mechanisms to but it's an over that most neuro typical without thinking. So I'll give you an example. When I was in high school, one of the things that I just was how to walk with a to this class. How close do you get? Do you walk in front, do you walk behind, can you talk at the same time, there's never any space what do I do? I got a feeling that most of didn't spend most of their time thinking and worrying about how to people and how to walk with the group without feeling like of the group. And that's an example of this social problem intellectually and I'm over analyzing And what I can do with that is, I'll instead of actually getting in there and just trying it, I'll &quot;What can I do, what can I say, &quot;how can I participate in this group? And actually I'm sitting over the little anthropologist And then what happens is when with this alien race and suddenly it's so distracting that I lose my ability to and I don't go very well. And then afterwards I'll analyze it again. It means that in the and in the moment it's very draining because I'm constantly looking and trying to figure out When someone says, &quot;How are you?&quot; What are they looking for? (chuckles) And so that's why a lot of autistic people learn coping mechanisms An undiagnosed autistic I said, &quot;Hello&quot; and he Right? That's because like, &quot;I am good thanks.&quot; its like, I'm not actually responding, I'm responding to my to get over this situation. Now, this won't always be as I said before, masking, it's actually relatively easy to do and well, for some of us but it's exhausting to And if you have to put on this mask in front of other people, then when you finally and you can drop the mask and do whatever it is you need to do without worrying about what without having these constant demands, like looking people in the eye, one of the reasons looking is because when someone they're expecting you to know exactly what they're thinking and feeling and respond to that with your face. And that's really difficult what the other person or how to respond. Okay, anyway I've probably these were supposed to be short examples. And just again I wanna acknowledge that probably every human being has experienced some level of these things at some point in their life. But I guess the difference here, and this goes especially when you've spent your whole to finally find people and a community that do believe you, and do say crazy things It's absolutely life-changing that you previously and no one else could possibly understand, to have that validated, and to find out other people have had this experience as well. That is why diagnosing can be an incredibly powerful to realize all of those things. Now, many of us will also and I won't go into that in detail now, but I've also done a of getting an official diagnosis versus being happy with self Okay so, part three of this video, now what to do from here, if So if you've been listening to these three defining experiences and it really resonates with you, and you just wanna find who understand what you're going through, then you might be on the spectrum and I would encourage you to Most adults I know came to the realization that they were autistic before they received So finally in answer to the question, how do I know if I'm The most definitive answer I can say is, if you find another person and and they know they are on the spectrum and you highly highly to an unbelievable degree, that you are also on the spectrum. Now you will probably not have this level of intense connection with out there. There are many , many many we're all different. So I would encourage you to similar gender, similar and see if their experiences and especially their and their internal life really that you thought wasn't possible. If that's the feeling that you're getting, then you're probably on the spectrum. And if you're unsure, to continue looking and continue getting Your questions are valid, and you are the person that defines if an answer is adequate or not, if someone has understood you or not. If you are going to I suggest you take as much Two to make your case and why you're asking the question of, am I on the spectrum in the first place. You may also wanna take a especially if sometimes impede your communication ability, and this advice is especially, yes I know I'm going to but especially if you're if something not good that is leading you to wonder keep looking, look for support, you don't need an official So if you need support go out and find it, you are worthy of getting help. We're probably over time, but another quick warning is that, this is really really big stuff. If you have listened to these things and something has touched that's probably a sign that that hasn't come out yet. So I just wanna give it like once you start unpacking of &quot;Who am I?&quot; There can be a lot that comes out and it can be quite overwhelming, quite literally life-changing. So I just wanna of having a support network, and if you don't have a support network finding a support network, it could be other autistic people, it could be friends and family. I would recommend trying with some other autistic people as well especially those who resonate because we don't always resonate with every other autistic person, but when we do it's absolutely amazing. If you're looking for other I've published over 20 diagnosis stories, so you can read people different ages and genders and see how different our autistic experience has been. In a similar way I've also got a playlist of Aspire interviews, which is another good way to get to know what does autism look like in real life. Because for me that was when I saw what autism not just this medical definition. Suddenly it was something that There may also be autistic support groups or just social groups in your area, so check online, check Meetup, check other other places like that to see if there's any way that in real life. And I might leave it there, it's been a huge topic, I've and they're still going way over time. But I hope you found this really helpful. I encourage you to take it's a worthy question to ask, if you think you might be on the spectrum it's a worthy question to So I hope this has been helpful for the last part, part three where I'll go through some questions that you can ask yourself. And again I wanna put the emphasis on you're asking yourself these questions. These questions are not by looking at them from the outside. So I hope you enjoyed this video, please consider supporting and I'll see you again next week. Bye.