This video is brought to you by Wondrium. Wondrium is the premier educational video with illuminating content. We will talk about Wondrium at the end of ways to overcome our fears from the philosophy Epictetus is one of the greatest stoic philosophers master in stoicism is exceptional. Born in 50 AD, Epictetus was born into slavery who served as a secretary to Nero, the Roman Epictetus had the unusual privilege of being master - a right he took maximum advantage Epictetus devoured Stoicism quickly, and what is, and how it can truly help people alleviate According to the stoics, everything around resulting in the rational structure of the And while we may not have control over the over how we approach things. This was something Epictetus had the chance stoic philosophers, Musonius Rufus. From there, Epictetus dug deep into it, and until he became a teacher himself. Epictetus left us two main books, his most two books that served as a north star for the great Marcus Aurelius. Fear, according to Epictetus, is at the root Although there are rational fears, most of and thus one has to clarify one's fears, any sense. Most of our fears, according to the Stoics, and that is something that is not coherent A stoic should be detached from anything that why in today's video we're going to share overcome fear. 1- Make Sense of Fear Epictetus says "Philosophy's main task sense of and thereby free ourselves from the When Epictetus became a teacher himself, he that if we analyze each one of our fears, many of them, and the only reason we have of social disgrace. What he means by this is that when we fear because we'll become jobless that we're us will see that, potentially labeling us He also teaches us that many of our fears in fact just desires, like the businessman and the families that think they can't live And so, he directs us to discern between what's those that are not, we should not fear them, Epictetus urges us to look deeply into our ones. Nowadays, the world is in no shortage of irrational Our world is marked by excessive possessions as many possessions as possible ends up developing be forgiven for thinking that every single For example - the fear of not owning a car anxiety in many people, many of whom will depends on it. Although a car makes life much easier, at vehicle, and there are many out there that possess them, like public transport or a taxi. Ofcourse, we do have rational fears, but those For example, the fear of not having access dangerous and fatal situation. These are fears that even our great ancestors Therefore, we should reconsider what we fear from the ones we only think are rational, One of the ways Epictetus urges people to In Epictetus's case, philosophy is what fears and how to deal with them. Philosophy is a remedy to see life as it truly It empowers our minds. We become more prepared to discern between things we should let go of. We become more aware of our fears and whether One can also seek to make sense of one's those who climb mountains specifically because Just make sure you analyze them well, and lens. Always, remember, if fear was an ocean, then the ocean, not a fish who swims endlessly 2- Embrace life trials of neither poverty nor exile nor imprisonment, Epictetus's teachings urge people to focus give any external events any emotional attachment. For, we have no power over those events, and do not want. This principle of only focusing on what you and this dichotomy of control is particularly Most of the things that we fear today are In Epictetus' case, the emperor Domitian exiled Epictetus and many other philosophers However, since the ban decision was out of city, and proceeded with his teachings, perhaps Life is full of surprises. So much so that that's a common expression they can be bad as well as good and we can't be surprises. So what can we do? Should we live in fear? In a constant state of anxiety? That cannot be the answer. We should empower ourselves to embrace or happened. If we can do that, it can trigger greatness In Stoic philosophy, we call this "Amor Amor Fati means accepting one's life entirely, events, and embracing it all. For example, let's say you've been working but once you get your project out there, it for. Although you tried so hard to overcome the sadly, that idea is not the right one. You've put your blood, sweat and tears into You've reached out to people to invest in Although it's been a great learning experience projects, the final reception is not something You did everything you could, and it didn't failure? Many great entrepreneurs failed more than Because that is the human spirit, that is When dealing with unfortunate events that either meet it with indifference, or use it and only then can we find ourselves reaching 3- Believe in your ability to do wonders Epictetus teaches us that "Unremarkable capable when trying something new". Being born into slavery, the chance that Epictetus philosophers of all time was vanishingly slim. It was his master who gave him the chance that Epictetus would become one of the masters Sure, Epictetus' motivation was not to be his ability to deliver value and pursue knowledge, wealth and families of knowledge. Epictetus went against the odds. And with all the unparalleled hardships he in the Roman Empire, giving us an example If life had an unspoken synonym, it would representation of this would be in the classic The scrappy plumber does his absolute best to overcome many trials to reach his goal. But no matter how hard the game gets, he keeps Although we may not face the same fatal challenges that take a lot from us and thus create this nearly impossible. And so we fear to take difficult steps, be or in moving on after a break up because you of you and fear what you see in front of you. However, with our limited time on earth, shouldn't Indeed, we will all face tough challenges that just part of the bittersweet beauty of Imagine yourself starting a podcast, for example, try with different formats, different topics, side, to the production, but no matter what But one day, with one guest you didn't even podcast starts trending, reaching the top Who would have thought? But was it a surprise for you? Not exactly.... It was pure dedication and unshakeable belief. Although the previous episodes didn't get as failures, you believed in what you had rewarded. Therefore, we should dare to take risks, and Dare to overcome the hardships that life might ALWAYS remember, greatness is only unlocked would always be in question. 4. Don't fear other people's judgment In the words of Epictetus "If you are tempted you have compromised your own integrity. If you need a witness, be your own". Epictetus' Era was one where there was a way back in time to Ancient Greece, but maintained The sophists were those intellectuals who masters of rhetoric. But a sophist was also one who searched for is not to seek new knowledge, but to show The difference between a sophist and a stoic the other to applaud him, and a stoic does And that is exactly what Epictetus wants from Being driven by others' approval only compromises As a matter of fact, when you are this obsessed, horizons to grow as a person, for the only In our lifetime, whatever direction we're build us up, and those who'll tear us down. However, there's one way that might help not taking any direction, staying in place, But what good really comes from this? In this situation, what's the difference Yes, we will continue to exist, but it's beings - it is what makes us grow and flourish Other people's criticism or opinions about not in our control, one shouldn't place Instead what is in your control is acceptance. We should accept that with every action we at, and that's ok, if that's the price You should not fear taking actions that are explore the things that you want, the knowledge want to travel beyond. 5. Get rid of the fear of death video, he says &quot;I cannot escape death, but Epictetus was not only a slave at first, but And thus, he had to learn to accept death every corner, because while we may ignore daily basis. However, for Epictetus, all those who try are only fueling the fear of it. If you really want to get rid of any fear, right in front of you, and face it head-on. This is just as true for fear of death as For Epictetus, everything happens in our mind, differently, it would be free from many concerns. According to Epictetus, the key to getting of it. It is very common to see people changing the However, Epictetus urges us to change our frequently, even on a daily basis. Entertaining this idea of death in our mind alleviates the pressure related to its uncertainty is what makes us anxious. But it is essential to discuss death as you it for moments of grief and sadness. How we talk about it has consequences on how For example, stoics perceive death as a reminder the most out of it, living every single moment There's a particular concept that talks remember that you have to die. And for the stoics, the best thing you could Every morning when you wake up, ask yourself doing? This daily visualization about your death You will start to look forward to maximizing count. And that's the power of remembering death, It is the freedom from fear of death that and thrive. And this freedom starts with just a mere change Fearing death will only prevent us from living, Fearing death will only stop us from thriving, As mentioned at the beginning, this video Wondrium is an online learning platform that And by tons, we mean thousands of hours of and series covering every topic you've ever you'd wonder about. If, for example, you are interested in philosophy this course called "In the Footsteps of This 15 part series will dive deeper into Wonderium is truly 'a museum for your mind', brain is going to love this place. Click on this link in the description - https://wondrium.com/philosophiesforlife is offering at the moment. The new year is the perfect time to invest than to expand your knowledge on all of your By subscribing to Wondrium you have the opportunity long. If you enjoyed this video, please make sure playlist and for more videos to help you find wisdom, don't forget to subscribe. Thanks so much for watching.