Sell your copper, your iron, your old appliances! Sell your beer bottles, your cans! The chicken for the private room is ready. Coming. Hey, they need to pay some of their tab for once. Here, Mr. Wu, have some more. Here you go. (Okay, your chicken is ready.) Ms. Ding, (Yes?) if you need something, just talk to Wu! He'll help you! (From now on, Call me if you ever need help! Also, get two more packs. Alright. Here, let's try that chicken! (Yeah, dig in.) Hey Yan, come take these cigarettes in. (Okay.) Eat up men, it's delicious! (Here here! Cheers!) The chicken was great. Done eating? All done. Good day. Thank you! Mr. Wu, can you please settle your tab today? Next time. We'll pay, don't worry. Uh, but sir, it's just your tab is so high. Sir, listen, we don't have the turnover to sustain this. Just what are you saying? Huh? You'll get paid next time, didn't you hear? We can't wait. We borrowed money to open the restaurant, we haven't paid it back. We can't even pay our workers their salaries. We get our liquor, cigarettes, and food on credit. If you don't pay your bill, we won't be able to remain open. Please, can't the Party take care of us? Mrs. Ding, you must be flexible That's the way to keep your business open. Don't you agree, hmm? We can't keep doing this. It's such an evil world! They eat, they drink, but these government scum never pay a cent. They're worse than bandits and robbers! Oh, Mrs. Ding! (Hi.) I'm surprised you have time to see me. I need a favor. (Oh.) We're a bit short at the restaurant What? We borrowed money to pay for this truck, I'm really sorry. We'd like to help but we have to pay our loan back. I just ordered more medicine, so money is very tight now. I'm really sorry, but I can't help. It's fine. Yesterday the quality inspectors came. They claimed we're not up to standard, It's just outright tyranny. Ruilin, (Yes?) business is hard just now, But I want you to take it. Thank you. You're welcome. Chief Hou, that was some luck last night. You won a lot. (Cheers!) I did pretty well. (Let's drink.) Let's have another. Great night. Another round. (Cheers!) Mr. Chen? Yes, of course. Not to worry, we'll get the job done. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So what's wrong? (What happened?) He wants the job done. Damn! They always do this around the holidays. The damn fine quotas get higher every year. The bosses sit in their office drinking tea, while we run around in a sweat, doing all the work! And they give us the worst jobs every time! It's true. (Come on, don't be mad.) There's no point complaining. If we don't finish it, we don't get a bonus, not to mention promotions. Let's find a reason to give a fine. Come on. Hey. Stay, let's dance. (We're leaving.) Till next time. Here's your change. Two and a half yuan. Here's the money. Thanks. Mr. Zhang, you gave me too much! I must be getting old and senile. You saw a 50 as a 10. How much is it? Yan? What's up? Yeah. Based on just one call of complaint, you say we defraud customers We'd never do something like that. Why did you freeze our business license? Yeah, why? We're just following the law. (Following the law?) You've accused us of a crime without any real proof! We can't accept this fine! It's not up to us, so don't waste our time, 'kay? Pay your fine and you'll get your license back. Take it! (If you have a problem, What? How much! (How could ...) Last time you fined us 5,000, this time you want 18,000? (You ...) Please! (You have to at least Stop! You shut up! Don't pay, we'll close you down! Get out! Go on! Get moving! (But ...) What you're doing is blatant robbery! Get out of here! (Is this how you serve the people?) Get out! You watch your mouth! Keep it up, you'll be in obstruction. Now go! You can't ... This is an outrage! (Go!) But ... ... plus 1850 equals 7600. 342 plus 275 plus 8 ... Mama, the teacher said we have to pay tuition. I know that! If we don't pay, they won't let me go to school. Pay, pay, pay! That's all they ever want! Mama, don't be angry. If you don't have the money, Come Lei, go to your room, okay? Let's do your homework. Don't yell at him for money we owe! I said we shouldn't own a restaurant. With the CCP, one can't run a business. You didn't believe me. You said we needed it, so Lei could go to college. How'd that turn out? Did we earn anything? The CCP runs China. Every day it's deceit and blackmail. You couldn't see it, but I did all along! I didn't think they'd be so evil! These corrupt officials! Sanitation, Commerce, Taxation, Health, every department takes bribes. If you can't pay, they find ways to frame you, then they either fine you or close your business. They never pay any of their bills, and now there's forty to fifty thousand All that we worked so hard for Ruilin ... With the CCP in power, all officials are corrupt. Common people like us have no power. We have no choice but to be oppressed. Running a business and having a decent life Forget about a good life. The loans we took to open up the restaurant will take half our lives to pay off. China is an awful place; there's no way to live here. Now you finally understand! This is the darkness we live in with the CCP. Ordinary people can't survive. I asked you to believe in God, You both insisted on doing this. And after all of that suffering, Had I known this would be the result, At the time, I was worried about the CCP's I thought, if I were arrested, I never thought a business would end up like this. Hello? Hey, it's me. Oh, hi. Have you two made a decision The agent fee alone is more than a hundred thousand. Where will I get it? If we can't find work, Don't worry about it. I'll loan you the money for now. You can pay it back when you have it. Listen, you'd have to work years in China I promise you won't regret coming to Korea. If the money problem is solved, Alright, it sounds like a plan. Okay. Hey, Mingyi, Yongzhi says he'll loan us the money. Let's go to Korea! Korea is a democratic country. There's rule of law. There won't be corrupt officials blackmailing us. If we both get jobs in Korea we'll be able to pay off our debts, and save the money for Lei to go to college. In Korea, we could go to meetings and believe in God. What do you think? Mama. It's a good plan, but if we both go, what about your mother and Lei? You don't need to worry about us. I'll care for Lei. Go and do what must be done. Mama, call me when you are in Korea ... Hey, Mingyi! Yeah? Look here, the light is wonderful! Not bad at all. Hey, Ruilin, (Yes?) how's the apartment? It looks alright? Mm. It's great. Here, here you go. Hey! I need soy sauce! Bring me some! Coming! Here, your chicken. There, casserole's ready! Careful, it's hot. Here's table 6. (Got it.) 38,000 won. Okay, just a minute. Hi, what can I get you? Table 7, Shredded Pork. Hmm, it needs a bit more heat. Here, it's table ten's order. Preparing food isn't bad work. Coming! Wash this, we're waiting to use it. ('Kay.) Hey, you know those pastries you made? They were very interesting. Maybe one day you can be our pastry chef! Is that so? Hey, you OK? You alright? I'm fine. What's going on? I'm very sorry. I'll pay more attention. Be careful! I will. Everyone keep the pace up! Mr. Guo, you alright? I'm alright. It's an old condition. Stand over ten hours a day, you develop pains. Mr. Guo, you should go get it looked at. You can't keep this up. It's true. You're pushing yourself like a robot. Well, what can I do? I took out a high-interest loan But he just refuses to learn decent habits, The burden of the debt falls on me alone. I don't have the time to be sick! I'm like a donkey, that's tied to a millstone. I can only keep going. I can't go back. Mr. Guo, don't be so pessimistic. Now, here's what I think. It's true that things are hard after a few years, things will change. I won't lie, next month I'm going to Busan So you made the decision? Yeah. And I've made up my mind. Once I save enough, I'll open my own restaurant, then I'll be the boss. People need to have a clear vision. Look past, the here and now. Isn't that right? Indeed. We may suffer now, but as they say, &quot;If you want to appear dignified you have to suffer when they aren't.&quot; Once we've saved enough, What's bitter will in time turn sweet. Yeah. That's the idea. Yes, but now, let's drink. Mingyi, will you rub my back? Mingyi! (Yeah?) &quot;Time to eat.&quot; What's that mean? &quot;Meal time.&quot; Wow, your Korean is getting really good. Hello? Mr. Yang. Ah, as soon as we can. What was that? His son is getting married. They need to buy a house. He wants us to pay him back. How much do we have left? Just over 20,000. Over 20,000 ... Let's pay back 20,000. OK. Yongzhi found me part-time cleaning work. The owner's a germophobe, and very picky, but the pay is good. Do you think I should take the job? If you work 12 hours a day, then do house cleaning, will your body be able to handle it? It will. Let's pay it back as soon as we can Then our unease will stop. Yuanyuan, did you drink your milk? (Yeah.) Mrs. Ding! Yes? Come here. Look at this. This does not look clean to me. Look here, here, here! Can't you do your job? I'm sorry. I'll clean it again right now. You know we're busy, yet you're so late! Hey, hi Lei! Mama, look, I got first prize in the art contest! Really? I'm so proud! My teacher said that I should take classes My love, as long as you work hard, I'll support you with whatever you want. 'Kay? Ask mom if she's tired. Mama, are you tired? No, no, I'm not, okay? My love, (Mm?) you be a good boy for grandma. 'Kay? Uh, my love, work is busy, so I have to go. Uh, but I can call you tonight. Okay? (OK.) Oh, boss, you're back! Hello. Back from the mall? You bought so much! (Yes, this is all for my son.) Hey, Jian, I hear you're going to the U.S. soon. Indeed. In a few days. We need to find time to get that looked at. Medicine isn't enough for this. It's fine, it's just a small issue. I'm so busy every day. I live for money, and my heart always feels empty. Is this really all there is to life? And yet, I keep thinking, Once we're out of debt, we can pursue faith in God. But can we continue existing like this? We really should think about belief in God. Maybe it will help with the emptiness we feel. Let's find someone and seek answers. Alright. You go ahead and seek. Hello there. Hello to you. (Hello there!) We're from The Church of Almighty God. Take a look at this brochure. Ding Ruilin? Lin Zhixin? It's really you! Indeed. You two know each other? We went to high school together. The last few years I ran a restaurant in China. I thought it could make some money. I didn't know of all the demands that the government They dined without paying, Not only did I make nothing, I fell into deep debt. With the CCP in power, True. Our debts from the restaurant were too high. We had no options. So, we came to Korea to get jobs. Now that we're here, things are much better. So tell me, how long have you been in Korea? I've been here 7 or 8 years. Life in a real democracy At the very least, there are no officials You also don't need to pay out endless bribes. Doing business here is easier. I was right to come to Korea, It's wonderful to see a friend Hey, may I ask when did you start believing in God? Five years ago. I wanted to believe back on the mainland. (Really?) But seeing the CCP wildly persecute I didn't dare believe. I thought that if I were to start a business it wouldn't be too late to believe in God later. But now here in Korea, I could believe while I work. Wouldn't that be just great? Of course that would. When people live in this world, if they don't grasp truth, Those in power who have wealth feel empty. When we lack power and are robbed and oppressed, we're even more miserable and empty. That is why life without believing that ends with dying still confused. Isn't that a shame? You're completely right. In the years I've been in business, I've tasted despotism's bitterness, and it's felt like death is better, but there can't be contentment in death! I've been thinking, just what is true happiness? How can I live so that I feel true happiness? I haven't figured it out. My friend, you believe in God. Would you speak with me? Why do you believe in God? What does your faith bring you? That's what I want to know. Faith brings many good things. Putting it simply, people must grasp why they live; Why should we believe in God? Because mankind was created by God. Our lifespans and fate, are all in God's hands. People often say, &quot;As people act, Heaven watches,&quot; &quot;Man proposes, God disposes.&quot; If what we say and do, we'll gain God's blessings. If we follow Him, we gain God's protection, and our lives will be peaceful and joyous. Why is our world so dark and evil, and why are people so corrupt? People can't provide clear answers. God saves mankind Without belief in God, we can not grasp the truth, and we can not walk the path of life. In the years I've believed, I've understood the truth about life, I've learned of the root of darkness in the world, and I've come to grasp that people are evil I have come to know why people's lives are empty and miserable, where people came from, where they are going, God's will in creating people, where people's endings can be found, I grasp the truths of these mysteries, and my heart is ever so much brighter. I know how to live to find peace and joy, and how to live to gain God's blessing. In this dark world of ours, only Christ is the truth, the way, and the life. When the Lord Jesus appeared, He said, Now the Lord Jesus has returned, and the kingdom of heaven has come to earth. If we believe in God and follow Him, then we can enter the kingdom of heaven, This is such a great blessing! Those who don't believe, they can only live in sin, and then, when the great disaster comes, The kingdom of heaven has now come, so what will you choose? I didn't know that faith I'm so happy I could meet with you I would love to hear more of your thoughts. Of course. I know this isn't an easy thing. How's this? First, I'll show you two videos Yes. Alright. Never before have I heard such things. These words are wonderful. They describe all of life's mysteries! Yes. When we hear God's words, as if He's speaking right to us. Heaven and earth were created by God, All of our fates, our gifts and abilities, It was in the Age of Law that God proclaimed, People's poverty, wealth, honor, humbleness, The saying goes, &quot;What goes around will come around.&quot; This proves that God dominates People say Heaven decides fate. That's right. Then why is there such evil What is the root cause? When the Lord Jesus appeared, He proclaimed, The Bible also says In our world, there's nothing more evil than the CCP. They suppress religious faith The land ruled by the CCP You've seen that their officials This is the root of the Chinese people's misery. You already have first hand experience Every day it promotes evolution and atheism to deceive and corrupt Chinese people. From a young age we are steeped planting deep in our minds No matter how empty we feel as we live in this world, we never know the reason why. When people depart from God and live they can only be deceived, Just like children, who run from their parents, they have no support, they've no care or protection, and in society, they can only How could they not be miserable? That really makes a great deal of sense. Ruilin, read this passage of the word of God. Ah, alright. In the last days, God has expressed many words to purify and save mankind, to reveal the truth, so they understand it This is God's love for mankind. In the years I've believed, the more I read God's word, I've come to see things clearly, including family, and life, and work, and marriage, and so much more. Wealth and status no longer attract me; I no longer suffer from their bondage. I now feel more relaxed and free, What I think is understanding truth is great. I think truth has value, that the truth is the highest maxim in life. When we live by truth, When we grasp truth, we understand how to live, how to obey and to worship God. And then we can receive God's blessings, This is what true happiness means. Hearing you say all that, I think it's important for people For we who don't understand truth, we have one goal. We pursue reputation and status, and though we suffer from it, we won't stop pursuing. We don't understand why the world People really are foolish not to believe in God. It seems believers often read God's word you see the world so clearly, and you avoid many twisted paths! But what's more, you feel peace and joy, We have struggled for our entire lives, and at death we still go to hell. It's better to believe in God! I want to read more of God's word Alright! In that case, I'll help you install Hey, these words actually sound nice! Indeed. And they so warm my heart as I read them. Hey, when you can, you should read God's word. Let's believe together. Huh? Believe in God? Yeah. Belief in God is good, it's being good and on the right path, but we're busy dawn to dusk, day in and day out. We don't have time to believe in God! In the past, we only focused on making money, right? And so our lives seemed so meaningless. Now, I've been reading God's word, I feel like I grasp some things about life, and I feel joy and peace well up in my heart. Hey, it's great to believe in God! Then, you go ahead and believe. Back home in China, you would be persecuted, and maybe put in jail, but Korea is a true democratic country, and so there is no threat of arrest. Go ahead, believe. Great. At lunch, take what we bought mom Sure, okay. Hey you two. (Hey.) You're here early, Mr. Guo. (Hey, Mr. Guo.) Hey. Ruilin, you're here. Yeah, you're early too. Have you all heard the news? What news? Well, what I heard is the boss What of the restaurant? Will it stay open? I don't know. Anyway, we're out of time, let's get to work. Hey, Ruilin, (Yeah?) the restaurant, they're selling it. Yongzhi wants to partner with us, This is an opportunity. I heard, everyone was whispering about the sale. But now, I truly believe in God. It was hard to find the right path in life. I now feel so secure and relaxed. And I never want that kind Okay, how about I take care of the worrying? It won't affect your belief in God. Besides, isn't earning money Hey, I've done all the math, each month the restaurant It's an opportunity, and who knows if we'll get another one. Hey. Hi. Have you made your decision? Not many who come to Korea Don't worry about the money, Just invest as much as you can. I'm busy here in Busan. Once we buy the restaurant, With the restaurant, in a few years, and everything else you want. You'll also be able to So let me know. Let's work hard and get things done. And so, all our efforts today Right. Yes. I always say people need to have-- People need to have vision. You can't just look at what's in front of you. You've learned it! Starting right now, our next project is to launch a brand-new menu. Hey Yu, move it a bit over this way. Like this? Further down. (Like this?) Hey, hey, that side up. (How's this?) Let me. You take a break. There, a little bit higher. (Okay.) Hello! (My friends just opened this restaurant.) Welcome! Right this way if you please. Welcome! Come right in. Pardon, just the check please. (Thank you so much.) Thanks! (Thank you!) Have a nice day, sir! Welcome everyone! Table 5! That's everything you ordered. 'Kay. There. Enjoy. (Thank you!) You're welcome. Please bring us some soda and wine. Have a nice day! Is it ready? Table 7 is getting impatient. Cheers! Mrs. Ding! Excuse me, we're short on these ingredients. You'll have to call the supplier! It's so good. Hello welcome! Hey, Yu, come here. Yes, Mrs. Ding? (I have an appointment at 2 p.m.) And I'm late. Can you watch the register? Okay then. Goodbye. (Thanks!) You're finally here. I'm sorry I'm late. I'm so sorry. It's fine. Work's been busy? Yes, there's been so much to do. Your coffee, ma'am. Thanks. Be careful of your health. I'm fine. I'm sorry, I need to take this. Sure, go ahead. Hello there. Yes, Mr. Kim? Yes. Right now? Finished? Sorry. It's the restaurant. It's urgent. We'll have to meet another day. Yes, another time. Goodbye then. Take it easy, be careful. Sure. See you. This is their specialty. It sure looks tasty. Then Mr. Lee, I'll leave my business in your hands! Okay, here comes the soup! It's a great recipe. (It all looks great.) I can't wait! (We can eat! Enjoy it.) First, let me say a few words. The tremendous success couldn't have happened Thank you all. Thank you for all you've done! Here, Yu. (Thank you.) I'll work even harder in the future. (Limei.) Thank you so much! Thank you, Mrs. Ding! Here Zhang. Thank you, Mrs. Ding! We've worked together for so long. Enjoy yourselves. Yeah. Mr. Guo. Thank you so much! No, thank you! Mrs. Ding, have a seat. (Thanks.) Enjoy yourselves. Mrs. Ding, a toast to you. Thanks. It's delicious! Everyone keep eating, let's enjoy ourselves. I'm just so happy today. What's wrong? Don't move me! My waist! (What's the matter?) Get her to a hospital! Call an ambulance! (Hurry, we need an ambulance!) Go call now! (Okay. I'm going.) The lumbar disc in your wife's spine and is pressing against the nerve. This is numbing her legs and making it I'm sorry to say that your wife is at risk for long-term paralysis. We advise operating as soon as possible. Doctor, does the operation itself carry any risks? Isn't there anything else we can do? We can apply traction to her spine for now, but if her condition doesn't improve ... Here. You need to eat. Don't start thinking too much. You're sick, you need treatment. That's all there is to it. I'm still so young, and I'm already paralyzed and bed-ridden? God, please have mercy on me. The words of God are ever so practical. People labor and run themselves but on the brink of death, neither their wealth nor their fame can save them. Even if people are fabulously wealthy of what use are these things? They can't take those things when they die. Wealth and status are empty and worthless. They pass in an instant. I've struggled for so many years, and endured so much suffering and humiliation. In the end, what have I gained for it? While people live, we should pursue the truth and follow God. The results of your traction Now you just need rest. Thank you very much. You're welcome. How are you feeling? Hello. Hello to you. (Mingyi.) Hey, Zhixin! Good to see you! Look. Hello. Do you feel better? When you preached me the gospel, it sounded grand, and I wanted to believe. Once we took over the restaurant, I was so busy and didn't have time for meetings. I only cared about money. In the end I exhausted myself. As I was lying here, I finally calmed down and read God's words, and considered my life. I finally realized that if people only pursue they find only emptiness and misery. Only by pursuing the truth, following God, can I feel peace, safety, and security. It's wonderful you understand. While I've been in here, I've seen so many people just tormented by illness. Some who are here one day, pass away the next. People's lives are really ever so fragile. I started to think, why do people get sick and die? Why do we feel so empty I so want to believe in God, but why can I not escape the temptation of wealth? Life is so easy for you now that you believe. I admire you for that. Ruilin, when we suffer illness, being able to calmly reflect on our path, being able to discover our weakness is a wonderful thing. God saves those who genuinely believe in Him. Many will claim to believe in God and no matter how many times they fail they never reflect on themselves. They never seek the truth Such people have no way of gaining the truth as life. No matter how long they believe, But you, after just a few months of believing, you're able to self-reflect and seek the truth. That's extremely rare. It's true, those who truly believe in God and ultimately gain understanding In time, all of their difficulties are resolved, and they no longer suffer Let's read some of God's word. Please. Help me sit up. Are you sure? Yes. Okay? Yes. I can read the next one. (OK.) Yes. Almighty God's words so clearly explain All of mankind's misery Because mankind has been corrupted by Satan we live in darkness and misery. For millennia, Satan has used to fabricate fallacious theories to corrupt mankind. Ideas like &quot;This world is devoid of God, &quot;One's fate is within his own hands,&quot; &quot;Every man for himself &quot;Those who use their minds Also, &quot;Attain fame to honor ancestors,&quot; &quot;Money is first,&quot; &quot;Money isn't everything, but without it, These are the fallacious theories that Satan uses From the moment we start school, Satanic forces promote theories like evolution. They use knowledge and science to replace the truth, which leads people to deny and betray God. Once mankind accepts Satan's they deny God's existence, they deny God's creation and dominion. They even deny and condemn They deny the truth, and instead live by these satanic laws, which causes their dispositions to become They become completely consumed by desire for wealth, fame, status, and pleasures of the flesh. To attain these, people will even kill one another. They are capable of any act, no matter how immoral. They sell their bodies and betray their dignity. They deceive, steal, and even commit murder Yes. For the sake of their interests, best of friends, even spouses, parent against child, siblings turned foes. They lost all normal humanity Having been so corrupted, Life in this dark world's no different than living in the darkness of hell. Where is there any happiness or joy to speak of? The harm done to mankind Ideas like the saying, &quot;One's fate is within his own hands,&quot; and such mottos of the CCP as, &quot;Man rules nature,&quot; &quot;To battle with Heaven is fun! To battle with earth is fun! To battle with people is fun!&quot; Once these lies take root in people, they look down upon God, become arrogant. They come to believe that they can control so they try to fight their destinies. Many people struggle their entire lives, and what is the result? They not only fail to change their own fate, they bloody their brows and live in utter torment, and in the end admit fate controls all. When people don't know God's dominance, they live by Satan's evil philosophies, and struggle to attain their ambitions. But doing this is only hurting them. Now we should be able to clearly see the reason why people's lives are full of emptiness and misery. If people refuse to accept God's words, and submit to Satan's power and the lies of devils, they'll fall into darkness and a life of misery. Only through believing in God can we escape the sway of Satan and live free and at ease in the presence of God, and live out a meaningful life. In the past, I couldn't see this clearly, but now I get it. The reason people's lives are miserable is due to Satan's corrupting influence and harm. Right. In the past, I regarded these ubiquitous sayings Having heard your fellowship, I now see that these are Satan's tricks Without believing in God and reading God's words, it's impossible to see this. (That's right.) It's good to believe in God From now on, I will read more of God's word Then, I will understand truth I'll be able to escape the bondage of the flesh. My life won't be so bitter and exhausting. Yes. When we believe in God, attain the truth, once we are purified God will bring us to His kingdom. When that happens, we'll have genuine happiness and beautiful lives. It's just like the prophecy in Revelation, Let's watch a recitation of the words of God. Sure. Life in the kingdom looks so wonderful! Hey, Zhixin, the last few days, I've been reading God's words, and I've come to see that Satan uses in order to corrupt people. I've really gained discernment! For instance, Satan uses such notions as &quot;Money is first,&quot; &quot;Money makes the world go round&quot; to make people feel that that money is a requirement to live with dignity, and that without it they're second-class citizens. I nearly worked myself to death and all I achieved was illness and injury. I was simply a slave to Satan and money! Ruilin, thanks be to God you now understand this. I finally see clearly that without God and God's words, people can't live. When people don't grasp truth, Satan will corrupt them and which is terrible! Yes. Thankfully, I believe in God, and from reading God's word, Without believing in God or reading God's words, there's no way to escape Satan's corruption; we can only struggle in darkness and torment, with no hope of escape. It seems believing in God is the path to salvation, that only by accepting the truth and that this is genuine happiness. Since you've read Almighty God's you seem more, more relaxed and at ease. Hey, let's sit here. It's good to believe in God! And it's my good fortune How sad that most can't see Therefore they still live by them. They think money is everything, but is that really the truth of the matter? Can money help people to escape emptiness? Can it save us from disaster? Can it allow people to escape the bondage and bring them into God's kingdom? It can not. Money can just change your material life, and improve your fleshly enjoyment. But those things are just temporary. If people don't believe, they can't gain truth, and so when the great disaster comes, they will die all the same. To solve the crucial questions we must believe in God and accept truth. God's work to save man is expressing truth God has expressed the truth Only when we gain the truth So the truth is what's most valuable of all. If people gain the truth, That's the greatest blessing of all! Hearing your words has been beneficial. When I reflect back, I realize we became money-making machines, and we suffered for it. We gained wealth but never felt peace. I've spent years simply being busy with work. I'm almost 40, yet I still don't know If I don't believe in God, Right. We're lucky God has come to save us. That we could hear God's words and come before God means we're truly blessed. And here out, I'll make changes. I'll pursue God and the truth. Indeed. In my experience, if people lack the guidance of the word of God, they are only groping in darkness, and they will endure endless suffering, yet never find the correct path. I finally grasp that having wealth Believing in God, gaining the truth, and being saved is what's most important. Thanks to God for bringing me back into His house. I've finally found where my spirit belongs. No longer must I wander!