if you're coming to Paris for the first time French, I live in Paris and consider this your If what you know from Paris comes from the movies, because the reality is pretty different. Paris is crazy all the time, and it's a whole new country really want to make your research on what to going to share with you today! In any case if you great experience, because Paris is such a beautiful have Roman ruins from the 2nd Century, and we also that you always see in the movies that date from you look around Paris! But things change a lot from to know is that the city is divided in districts districts we'll all understand you! They all have So this is why for example district 7 is next to we often speak about the districts when speaking so many little neighborhoods that all have a name where to stay, and you should absolutely watch it different experience depending on whether for a bit more traditional Saint Germain des Pres neighborhood in the lively and up and coming Belleville that Paris is crossed from east to west by a river refer as things being on the Left Bank or on the like you could walk across the city in around 2 can, try to walk as much as possible. It is so fun architecture, it's a super walkable city. Then my Biking around Paris is so fun, there's so many bike city, so it's also a super bikable city. You could you can also use the city bikes called Velib. You city, and they're also pretty affordable. Then when metro. A Metro ticket is around 2EUR you can now buy only use taxis and Ubers when I have a lot of lifts, and I don't want to carry my bags. And I do traffic around Paris and driving is clearly not is pretty safe ,obviously it's a big city so you in a big city like New York, London or La, you're home. These are for example don't leave your phone your pockets or your bag when you're in the metro, There's so much content online about scams and exaggerated. As a local I only got my phone stolen never gotten scammed or gotten anything stolen mindful and know that if you obviously look like money, and you should just ignore them. In any the tourism industry do speak English and most like showing you where something is or telling people don't speak English and maybe even learn a importance of saying bonjour or hello to someone and this is super important in France, and will that basically you're being rude to French people. who are a bit disappointed parisians are not more you thinking? Just imagine if you try to befriend for that matter! You know people who live in Paris have things to do, we are sometimes late for work most friendly when they live in a big city. Also when you first speak to them, so it's very rare to them like in Emily in Paris. And I get it because I also understand that locals have their own Paris you can go to meetups, use couchsurfing. Bobby 8 years ago! Or do an activity that you like, I'd say that the French culture values politeness friendly small talk like what you'd see in the US in the service. I have to admit, yes the service is that is that you can stay at a restaurant the waiter, because they just let you be anyway! regular on the channel, you know that it's one of so many different videos around food, I also have a to and liked! So if you want to eat a good meal in the first time, the main culture shock you might things: like lunch is between 12:00 and 2:00 long experience. I'd say people really love eating and here! So when you go to a sit down restaurant you than an hour. So here just embrace the lifestyle wine and good conversation. And to stay spontaneous on your phone for all that last minute Googling! today's sponsor Holafly. With Holafly you can get data plans available in over 140 of them. When expensive roaming charges and also the hassle of digital solution, which means you can get your esim If you're coming to Paris soon, especially for stay connected. Setting up is super easy just go plan, and how many days you're going to need it, even have packages for whole continents which is countries during your trip. If you purchase a plan So go check it out! One other thing you'll really shopping. So I used to live in the US, and a lot of visit me, they come with an empty suitcase, and then this stuff, there's obviously food. People just go to any big supermarket and buy anything is really good, the butter is delicious, truffle you live. And obviously any types of cheeses! People of the brands I like are Bobbies for shoes, and mentioned are both for men and women, so you can thing you should bring back home is skincare all my skincare products in France, but I didn't around the world! They're really high quality and there's also this shop called aromazone that I well. All right so before I tell you what locals things you might hear about in the guides and what Eiffel Tower, as a French person I've been on top of of it until I met my American boyfriend Bobby who enjoy seeing it. What I recommend you do is that and it doesn't seem fun. But you know what do I you go across the river, and you see it from the not a lot of people there. Let's keep going! big monument. And it's pretty fast to see it, so and do it, but I wouldn't go out of my way just to Les Cahmps Elysees, which is the massive avenue with a bunch of usually don't really like it and I tend to avoid you do need to travel to Paris just to see a Louis every first Sunday of the month they close the Then we have Notre Dame. Notre Dame is the beautiful years back. It's still under construction but it's is what it looks like. Back in the day you could beautiful. Also it's right in the center of the Montmartre, Monmartre is a super cute neighborhood And it has this big church called the Sacre Coeur. And in my personal opinion it's one of the best things to do in Paris if you can go there otherwise there's a lot of crowds. It's super cute streets, and then when you're ready to move on you there. Then there's Le Louvre, you probably have heard I've been there so many times because my mom was had kind of a special pass to skip the lines and bit too long. But what I recommend you do is that parts of the museum you really want to visit. Because week inside it. I do prefer smaller museums like water lillies of Monet are. And it's a very tiny museum, atmosphere. In any case accept that Paris is a probably going to do touristy things and it's a lot of these places are touristy for a reason! at least once but also leave some time for more So as a local this is where I usually bring my area of Paris is Le Marais. I'm very partial to the very nice parks, beautiful castles, hidden gems and go to different restaurants, or grab a coffee. both will too. Then I also like the area around Odeon and the chic vibes of Paris there. Like it has very is here, there's beautiful little streets and also my favorite parks and are really cute. So the chair, grab a coffee and chill all afternoon. Then beautiful and really relaxing. you can see the boats literally crossing paris, so you can have many there's so many hidden gems, so many things to mind, you'll see so much that is not on the guides, really a lot to do in Paris, you could really just need to accept that in any case you're not going that if you like Paris, this trip might be the more of my favorite places as a local you should