- Would you run your space Well, the ISS actually does. Yikes. But the ISS needs a lot So we went to meet the who are replacing it commercial space station. But it's not just a space Why do this? - We've been doing research on the International Space I've done some really but we need to take it to the next step. - Axiom Station is set to and when it does, they're to a new era in the space economy. - I'm completely convinced we're gonna be surrounded by objects that we just can't make on Earth- we can't imagine how we live without. - Right now, we rely on that have their origin in space, and that's before we were Once space factories get up and running, the potential expands exponentially. - Drugs, alloys, and 3D-printed organs, and those options were using microgravity. - But to become the first commercial space station, they've had to completely about how we live in space. - The speed at which to go from idea on a napkin to space flight hardware is really remarkable. And of course, don't be afraid to blow things up once in a while. - Will you be able to visit or work in space in your lifetime? Stick around and find out. This is &quot;Hard Reset.&quot; A series about rebuilding When Fry's Electronics suddenly closed all their stores in 2021, it felt a little like - You got Best Buy still, - If you never went to one, they were amazing electronic stores, but they also had amazing like a casino or an Aztec temple or space. - We'd drive by and go, &quot;You know, that'd be cool to And then we'd go, &quot;Ah, that's - That's Matt Ondler: the President of Axiom It wasn't such a crazy idea. That's right- here at the Old Space Station-themed next to NASA's Johnson Space Center is where Axiom Space is to replace the ISS. - Mr. Fry, who still &quot;I'll lease it to you, but We said, &quot;Okay, no problem.&quot; - Yeah, why would you ever wanna remove the mockups anyway? - This is our space station This where we do all the design and development of the systems required to support a crew in space. So basically our space - It's sort of interesting to have the ISS hanging over your head as you're designing a - That's right. A little - This is Dr. Michael Baine, the CTO of Axiom Space. He's gonna show us how to - So this is a full-scale mockup, and this is designed to help us understand how to do the assembly. Basically a a little over 10-meters-long. So it is a robotic spacecraft guidance, navigation, and control, and everything needed so that the ISS crew could - Is this of the final - That's right. - So I guess the big question I have when I see a Knex model is Axiom's approach might even the facility itself is They use plywood and foam prototypes, but these unassuming to make something really amazing. - If you built a lot of prototypes and failed quickly, in the end, you would've spent a lot less money because you're failing - This is how you bring a fail-fast approach to space. - We do four-week sprints. Every four weeks, we're testing something, blowing something up. - So mockups like this look really grungy, but they're actually very important because we could reconfigure them. It's where our crew members come in and actually run through a procedure. So we were constantly reevaluating how we lay things out - These mockups allow to test out the designs like this prototype for the It's about the same size as It doesn't feel actually, - This is about 20% more volume. So they're bigger than - Oh, that's very interesting. - So we had a little bit more freedom for how we laid it out. And of course we have a window where they don't have a That was a big thing for our crew experience perspective. And of course, you're not treatments that you would have on there. - It would be weird if you sent them to space with unfinished plywood. - With wood paneling. - Oddly enough, the first thing Axiom sent into space wasn't a space station. It was people. They've already run three which has opened up access It's also allowed them to work who seem, well, pretty happy - And we all know gravity sucks. It's been part of my goal to try and educate these engineers to actually live in space. I'm Peggy Whitson, I have more time in space at 675 days, and I was of the International Space Station. As I walk around and see the new modules of how we want our crews to live in space, we're not doing just the We wanna build in that that innovation as we maintain - This is more like the early days of NASA in the '60s. The urgency of racing the Soviets pushed NASA to develop - But our real innovation is the ability to look at a problem and to - One new technology of the life support out of the air for recycling. - We look to see what was done on ISS, vendor gave us a quote for just to remove the - In this situation, NASA might have written a check, but the engineers at Axiom came up with a totally new solution. - We now have a device that is 3D printed. It has virtually no moving parts, and it's 99.8% water capture. All in, the thing can't possibly and it's technically That's just one example where you want people to you allow them to explore ideas, and it can lead to the ability to build something that's - Axiom Station will start as habitation modules attached to the ISS. Then they'll add a module for research and manufacturing, an observatory, and a module to provide power, At this point, the ISS will go for a swim. Yep, they're literally gonna crash it into the Pacific Ocean. Hopefully that will be that Windows 7 is ever involved in. Anyway, what you have then is the Earth's first commercial space station; something unthinkable Designing a space station is hard, but the problems might - The engineers had some just beautifully designed handrails, but I'm like, I wouldn't wanna clean that. Get a disinfectant wipe no, beauty is great, but not when it's gonna cost - There's a balance to be struck here between something practical and something aesthetically pleasing because aesthetics do matter as well. - If you look at a picture of the International Space Station, it looks like a crazy person's garage- there's just stuff everywhere. - What's that supposed to mean? - So we really paid attention We paid more attention to so the crew's spending less - What they found with ISS is things were always getting lost. The crews spent an enormous amount of time trying to find stuff. This is where all of the of our station will connect. We're experimenting with cameras and RFID to basically as things come in and out things like that. - How fascinating. - There's thousands of to maintain the ISS. Our mantra is that we ought and disassemble the entire Now five tools is too few, but if you start there, you or a thousand tools versus 10,000 tools. - And that's pretty important when you have to fix things in a jam. Because repairs aren't as easy as they look in a Michael Bay movie. - I don't wanna stay here anymore! Yeah, finally! - All these learnings from the ISS and to focus on making it a comfortable, easy-to-use Space Station, are of using it as a platform for - Currently, a company can and do fundamental manufacturing, but NASA's not allowed to to make a thousand of - But with Axiom Station, all that research that's can start to become a reality on Earth. Things like pharmaceuticals namely cancer-fighting therapies. - Why would we grow cancer cells in orbit? They grow faster. So if you can develop a drug or a therapy that inhibits you know it's gonna inhibit here on Earth. - Alloys can be made because the alloys, molecules, and atoms align the way they want to; they're not affected by gravity. The other thing that I think to 3D print organs. - Using microgravity as a platform for manufacturing is actually We might be able to develop corneal lenses because we can make perfect lenses. And then you might one day have surgery to have a space-grown lens on your eye. - There might be a a heart transplant, you send your DNA up to a space station, machine up there prints your heart, and then that heart's - We're entering a new Between commercial space stations and the new Artemis base on the Moon, people of all nationalities and genders will soon - And one of the things that we're already doing to countries that haven't We flew two Saudi Arabian We also flew the first - Right now, space is accessible to more people than it which means we also need - So a space suit is very It has its own life support - So, our engineers have that was done by NASA and we've taken that and tried to reduce the footprint, tried to reduce the which allows you to get Everything is much closer and you don't feel like Tyrannosaurus Rex with short arms doing everything. - The existing NASA It was designed for a very mainly male bodies. - Part of it was a decision based on money and who was doing the which were guys, it and adaptability to overcome I am very proud of the to help train some women that I didn't know if to be able to do space walks. - The current NASA space suit is also really difficult to move in, and that actually makes - You've probably seen where the guys were - 'I like to skip along.' - Their limited mobility in the suit caused them to have to do unusual motions. So sometimes they fell down. - 'No, daggone it.' - 'Would you go over and help Twinkle Toes, please?' - It's also incredibly hard on the crew. Lots of crew injuries - Axiom Space hopes to make it a much more adaptable suit to be more inclusive to all people. - The Axiom suit is the most advanced space suit ever, and it's handmade by an amazing group of people who've worked on for &quot;Star Trek&quot; or outfits - And the suit is really There's different size arms, different size boots that they can wear so that we don't have to have custom suits for everybody that wears them. All the guys that get in and they're designers of the suit. So it's one of my opinion, you can't design a suit you And if you look at one of and the Apollo suits, the Apollo suits did So he has bearings at his at his hips, and legs to allow him to walk and allow him to squat and - So Richard, I'm curious for you, like how does it feel to move around in this when you're walking around doing things like? - At first it took a learning exactly how the but once you get a couple of runs in, you start to understand the best way to operate it, least effort. - How fast can you move in it? Like if you, God forbid, found a space monster on the Moon, how quickly could you get away? - I haven't tested that yet. We have a treadmill kind of set up for that later on maybe. - Not outrun a gazelle, but maybe a bear? - Faster than the other astronauts. - Space bears maybe. - Space bears maybe. - Richard declined to Anyway. We cover a lot of really amazing startups just like Axiom Space. And one thing they all have in common is that they rely on software Which brings me to the sponsor Odoo is an open source business management It's kind of like the operating system It's super easy to use and set up, and you can customize it I don't know about you, that use a crazy quilt of applications You've got one app for inventory, another for project management, What's so amazing everything from bookkeeping and have them all be in one platform That's really kind of nuts. It's perfect for smaller companies want many features, Odoo charges per user and not per app. So as your company grows, Also, if you're only using So watch: I'm going to start a cool technology company I'm building a website. I've got a domain. I'm putting together an R&amp;D project and sending out invoices Now I just need the actual technology It's not. Which is probably for the best, So if you want to 'Hard Reset' the OS below or go to odoo.com/freethink no credit card required - or request a demo. Okay, let's get back to The plan is for a station and a suit that will allow more to exist comfortably in space. And of course, enjoy the view. - The Earth observatory to a spacewalk that you can get. - And so I'm gonna be looking up and I'm gonna see the Earth passing below me at incredible speed. - 17,500 miles per hour. - You cover the entire earth in orbit within like about 45 minutes? - So day night is 45. So 90 minutes in orbit. So you'll see a sunrise and sunset every 45 minutes. - Wow. - Space has always also been this place where we can explore and If we can bring more people in the world interested in exploring, we can bring more countries together, we can get more people that are in orbit. And they look down on the Earth and they see that Paraguay and Uruguay green, that I think it'll be better for all of us. - So, picture a scenario where we can print organs in space and deliver them to save lives on earth, or manufacture complex or make carbon nanotubes that - There is a future economy in space in which there really is that we just can't make on Earth and make life better for everyone. And suddenly we're building to leverage that microgravity. - A station like this will to really flourish in space, and there's no predicting - I think the commercialization of space is gonna offer incredible opportunities in the future for our to access space on a more regular basis. Recognize that space is There might be a place as well as there is on Earth. - There'll be people that are kind of like offshore and they'll go into orbit every 30 days on and 30 days off doing manufacturing And then at some point in the future then, it's cities in space in which that's working there, but - All of this will give us the foundation we need to begin colonizing other worlds. And the further we explore, the more we change the way we think about what our home really is. - Growing up on a farm was that farm, and then you go to college and it expands to being my state. You leave the country and it's the whole United And then when you come home Someday, it'll be our solar system.