Brooke Shields and Chris Henchy are not only but they are also one of Tinseltown's most What makes their relationship so strong? And what happened when they hit a rough patch? Brooke Shields was previously married to tennis Her relationship with Agassi officially dissolved According to an excerpt from Shields' book, Depression,&quot; she met Henchy later that same The young pup wandered off on the Warner Bros. only for Henchy -- who was also writing for Henchy made a strong impression on Shields Over the next few weeks, they further connected in Washington, D.C. that Henchy wrote. Shields appreciated how thoughtful and funny While she wasn't in a place to date -- given in her book, &quot;[T]here was something between us that I could Brooke Shields and Chris Henchy dated for where he popped the question with an antique, The details around their wedding have been Initially, reports said the two got hitched surrounded by a small group of friends and But it was eventually revealed that the Catalina of a ruse to throw off paparazzi and Shields' The couple reportedly married a month later a luxurious Palm Beach estate. According to Brooke Shields' book, the couple to remove precancerous cells a few years prior to conceive. After trying artificial insemination, the While Shields admitted that the process was story. According to an interview with Fertility Today, worked, and their first daughter, Rowan Francis, The baby's middle name, Francis, was chosen from prostate cancer three weeks before her Three years later, the couple welcomed their on April 18, 2006. Grier was conceived naturally, which was a After Rowan's birth, Brooke Shields suffered her marriage with Chris Henchy. Shields told Oprah Winfrey, &quot;[Depression] gripped my heart to such an to try to overcome it. I mean, I was flattened by it. I was devastated by it.&quot; She shared in the interview that Henchy was &quot;[He] burst into tears. [...] He said, 'What is wrong with you? You don't sing to the baby. You don't even look at the baby.'&quot; After speaking with her doctor, she was soon Shields told Winfrey she was hesitant and her to try the medication. In her memoir, Shields says her husband was but admitted, &quot;My husband, if I have a bad day, he looks back again.' There's a lack of trust that was there at and that's damage to our relationship.&quot; Despite the fame and wealth that Brooke Shields to raise their two daughters as normally as Shields told the New York Post, &quot;I think they need to really have as much New York City, with kids their own age, and pressure.&quot; &quot;As uh, as a mom, you want them to be happy, fortified me more than anything was an education.&quot; In the same interview, Shields said that while about following in her mom's modeling footsteps, Instead, the couple prioritizes family time Hamptons -- and instills them with a sense The star told Net-A-Porter, &quot;I make my kids go on garbage pickups along in our house.&quot; Their daughters also started their first summer Shields shared with Us Weekly, &quot;They realized how hard it was to get that After being married for almost two decades, marriage takes work. Shields revealed that she and Henchy have NBC, &quot;I was like, 'Please, let's just go have coffee He got the paper, and we went and sat out, I said, 'Look at us, Grandpa!' It maybe lasted 45 minutes before life came It's clear that Shields and Henchy love being Good Housekeeping, &quot;He's extremely patient and ridiculously funny, head-on and not let things fester [...] I'm In 2021, Brooke Shields and Chris Henchy dropped for the first time, as she's attending West Of the occasion, Shields wrote on Instagram, &quot;My unique and extraordinary baby girl spreading I love you so. We are so proud of you.&quot; &quot;If you've done it right, they don't look Now, Shields and Henchy are spending more However, their teenage daughter Grier is still her mom's closet. As Shields told People, &quot;If I want to know where anything good that I know exactly where to find it.&quot; If you or someone you know is struggling with Line by texting HOME to 741741, call the National (6264), or visit the National Institute of