Citibanamex presents Corona presents The world's most famous ship wreck at a depth of 3,8000 meters in the Less than 200 people have seen the with their own eyes, these are In July of 2021, the company that will take new explorers to Allowing any person to visit the For 150,000 USD If successful, this will be the to reach such depths. Starting a new exploration era for This expedition is called &quot;Titanic and it is divided into five I'll participate in mission #2. This is my journey. My expedition to the Titanic Mexico City at July 2nd, 2021 I usually start my videos at the but I'll start this one at home, I've honestly never felt this There's so much I need to get done because the Canadian border is and this is not just any tour, So I needed to get special permits or rather, to transit through to All of this is making me very But enough of that, it's adventure I'm now leaving home to begin this Mexico City Airport Ok travelers, we are one step It all went very well, people in As tradition dictates, I'm at the I've taken-off for countless trips Citibanamex sponsored this trip they literally got onboard with me. So I had to honor this tradition. I'm eating a chilorio ciabatta. Because I'm sure they won't have I won't be taking this mask off it. I still have three more flights to We made it to Toronto, it all went the customs officers were so nice. We did have to bring special but we got through very quickly. I have a six hour layover here, Second Flight After 24 hours we finally made it I'll tell you more about this Since I have to stay isolated, I So I'll have plenty of time to do We're here, and everything went I feel relaxed and very happy, so As you may know We're not allowed to drink on this not even a sip to celebrate. I can't take a Corona beer with me All I have is this shirt, And this... (I wish it was a Corona) I just got an e-mail from the crew. Tomorrow we are boarding the ship, during the last dive, they had an this happened at a depth of 1,700 So they say that even though we we don't really know when we are Because the engineers have to I don't know what to think I'm honestly a bit scared. There are moments when we second and people always say we have to I don't necessarily think we it's more like we learn to live But having fear is natural. Fear is a defense mechanism that prevents us from doing But how to know if this fear is or letigimate... Or if it's just ridiculous. I don't know. Day 3 Today is the day. We are getting Last night, I got an e-mail with a and it also included a waiver of Basically, this is a form one signs to release the company from any These forms are commonly used for I signed one when I went sky-diving or when I rode the Nevis Swing in Every dangerous activity requires one of these waivers of This one, however, is more complex and the info contained herein got It says that I'm fully aware of that this is an experimental And although it has undergone many and conducted many dives whose of those where the Titanic is I acknowledge that the pressure and that any accident can incur Well, obviously this is scary. Today we are getting onboard and They'll tell us how the first and will elaborate more on this I'll keep you posted. It's time to St, Johns Harbor The ship for the expedition is the a state-of-the-art ship designed It's used to move oil platforms and it's even used to move around Besides the ship crew this expedition will be joined by two archaeologists, many engineers, a team of documentalists, and I was lucky enough to share specialists on the Titanic Cathy Lamet, member of the Titanic Rory Golden, an Irish explorer and and PH Nargeolet, a French the Titanic wreck over 30 times and has participated in some of recollection expeditions. Hello travelers, and welcome to I am so excited we are finally on the ship, we This is my cabin I have to be honest, this ship in every possible way. I'll give you a whole tour in a but I have to familiarize first, For now, I'll show you my small I hope you'll get as excited as I This is my room, you can see my And here's the toilet it's actually really nice, I have the toilet is right there- I have a small closet, with some I even have a tv, I wasn't There's my bed and a small couch. And a working station with its own Lastly, the most exciting part: These garments were provided by it has my name on it and the it gives me chills! Renata Rojas is here with me, I'll She's also m exican, but lives in She's really cool and a Titanic She's worked alongside OceanGate It sure gets cold, so we got this and a windbreaker that goes on top. It has these patches, one for The Titanic Survey Expedition my name and the Mexican flag. These pants are for the submarine, These are some souvenirs from we have t-shirts, a blanket, a cap and here's a bag that I can bring I'd love to do the mattress test, Day 4 Are you ready to take a tour Come with me. Here are the insides of the ship this is where we all get prepared, These are the lockers, we have to This is the exit to the back deck. one has to be fully clothed to go I'll show you the inside area. Down here we have the laundry room. Here is the hospital. Now we'll go upstairs. this is the A-deck. This room, which is now empty, is used by the archaeologists. There are two archaeologists on these are maps of the Titanic Here we can find a lot of these were brough in by the We can come here at any time and Here is the restaurant. As you can see, there is no food This is where we eat. We can use this whole area to have The schedule is a bit different to Breakfast is served at 6:00 am. Lunch is served at noon. And dinner is served at 5:00 pm. There are many options, and even And the food is delicious. Here we have a conference room. We gather in here every morning to These take place at 7:00 am and at We check the tasks that have been Here is today's agenda we start with breakfast, which is Here's a cigar lounge, although there are not many And up we go again This is the B deck. There are many cabins in this Those are rooms over there. We have a gym in here. right now it's empty. But this is a decently equipped Here's another laundry room We can wash our clothes once a some people stay here for several so the laundry day is defined by And this is the C deck. This is where my cabin is. This is the office of the ship's And that one over there is used by They are currently recording This is Renata's room. And this one is mine. Let's carry on with the tour. Now we're on the D deck. This area is mainly occupied by Luckily, we've been granted access The ship is not moving now, so This is the ship's control room. There are two sections in here, both sections are used to maneuver One or the other will be used so if we go that way, a crew and if we go the other way, a crew This ship is pretty new, it's only so it's equipped with cutting-edge And here's the way out. We have a really nice view of the The Titan is currently undergoing How did you like the tour? Isn't I'm sharing some updates on the This one is mission #2, I think For mission #1 they submerged for but faced many technical challenges this was the first immersion of Let's not forget this is an So there's still a lot to learn, a lot more exciting. So the first immersion was not and they couldn't reach the People from Ocean Gate are we'll make a successful immersion Which means we'd be making history and celebrating a milestone. I would love to join them as well, and be able to see the wreckage This expedition is a once in a in which there is a lot of room so there's a big chance we won't and see the wreck of the Titanic. But just being here and witness is already truly fascinating. really hope we are able to maket So I wish best of luck to all of We're now heading to the back deck, to get there, we have to be so I'm wearing this overall, and safety glasses. And I can't get back into the ship Therefore I have to change clothes You also have to wear this. Ok, wait. This is your astronaut suit. This is Renata rojas, the other Her passion for the Titanic led able to go down to he ship's wreckage. I've been trying to visit the because finding the wreckage was But it was found it before I was and find it myself. Now that has been done, and I'm a I want to visit the wreck and make yes, I do believe the Titanic is I've decided to stop prioritizing because my sole focus is to visit So I have to do this. This is my very first encounter a one-of-a-kind submarine that can It's made of titanium and carbon Right now it's missing it's white I can see it from where I'm the cover goes on top. As it is right now we can see all we'll get a closer look in a moment but right now it's undergoing The crew is currently working to achieve a successful expedition. The head of the expedition is founder and CEO of Ocean Gate. His dream is to provide new for underwater exploration, by creating a one of a kind that is about to make history. These lights are very powerful This one too. Down there it's completly dark. Titan has the biggest window there We are now familiarizing with the I'm sitting next to the boss here, but he's Stockton, the master mind The submarine works with but it has a very friendly scientists, civilians, or mission anyone could maneuver the The tablets are connected to the so we don't have to be sitting However, let's not forget the sub All these features have to be where any mistake can be deadly. But Stockton's excitement is so watching someone following his inspires others to do the same. In five minutes they are They've had issues with the We're still in St. Johns And they're testing the platform I'll record this, it will be very This is like watching a space I hope it goes well, so we can The ramp has been modified, thanks the platfrom descends softly and This mechanism will be tested This is nerve-wrecking if the descent is not soft enough, thus, cancelling our mission. The platform moves slowly, and is of St. Johns port. The test was a total success. It seems it all went well so it's time to go. We all signed the mission flag, it's up and waving. And off we go! We are leaving the port and We don't know what's going to We don't know if we'll make it, or But we'll learn a lot from this We haven't left and I'm already I'm crossing my fingers and hoping that'd be awesome. We are leaving the port of St. our hopes and illusions with us. It'll take 36 hours to get to the where we'll try the very first using a submarine made of carbon in such depths. Our team is optimistic but this won't be an easy task. Next chapter The big day finally arrived We are very excited. The weather is just perfect and The test immersion is taking place If this immersion is successful It'll be the first time a is able to reach such depths. To learn more about travel tips Visit our online store In our online store at www. We have a wide range of products, We deliver them directly to your Visit us at www.alanxelmundo.com You can also find us in our