- I'm so happy Microsoft got a in &quot;Guardians of the Galaxy.&quot; That should help boost sales. Oh, the Zune hardware Microsoft is such a How could this thing possibly fail? Let's take a look. (bright energetic music) Hey, everyone, how are you all doing? If you're new here, welcome. And the Zune is getting It's kind of coming back. It was in &quot;Guardians of the Galaxy,&quot; and Microsoft is even Heck, they're even hosting a To learn how we got here, we need to explore the Zune's history, what the devices are capable of, and ultimately how this And I'm also gonna debunk including one regarding the Let's take a look. In 2004, Microsoft launched as part of their MSN music service. A few months before it shut reports surfaced about Microsoft working on an iPod competitor. At the time, Apple was so it makes sense that and try to dethrone the fruit. Microsoft employee, J Allard, oversaw this new project code named Argo. On July 10th, 2006, of what's likely a Zune prototype. They said this photo was Note the silver control pad as opposed to the black, and the thinner 11 days later, Microsoft confirmed the product's name would be Zune, and they teased it with Cesar Menendez also posted And Cesar was an employee at Microsoft, so I thought it was kind was letting someone give the public an inside scoop on the product. One month later, an FCC filing with the name Toshiba 1089 appeared, and this apparent prototype It looks similar to a white Zune, but the control pad is and there's no symbols on the buttons. Additional photos were also uncovered showing the Zune in some This unit is brown with as opposed to a black pad Ooh, I just love speculating It's always so much fun, but we didn't have to wait much longer, because on September 14th, 2006, Microsoft officially revealed So let's take a look at it, and fun fact, if you look at the back the text at the bottom says Model 1089. Coincidence? I think not! The first generation Zune, was manufactured by Toshiba Black, white, and And it sold for $250. Well, $249.99 if you like cents. The case is made of double-shot plastic, and the black color had dark and the brown had green accents. And I really like the matte I think it feels really good in my hand, but I've noticed the plastic to scuffs and scratches. But don't worry, Microsoft will have a The screen's bezel is silver and shiny, and that design also It's not touch-sensitive, so if you come from an iPod background, you may be tempted to scroll but it's not designed to work that way. You can click the pad in four directions, and you can click and There's also a back button on the left and a play, pause button on the right. The three inch display is bigger than the iPod's 2.5-inch display, which I think is really nice, and it works for portrait However, despite the larger size, it is the same resolution as On top is the headphone and on the bottom is the connector port for charging and syncing. And on the back of the Zune I have no idea what it's And it says hello from Now the Zune is kind of big. It's 2.4x4.4x0.58 inches, and I think it looks like a Don't get me wrong, I still and I abso-freaking-lutely but the size is just not appealing to me. But to each their own. And the weight is 5.6 ounces, not too different from the iPod's 4.8. I should also mention Zune came in some limited edition and this applied to Now let's talk specs. The Zune features a 30 and was advertised to It uses a free scale IMX31L processor with 64 megabytes of RAM, and the battery lasted for or 3 1/2 hours of video playback, and it had an FM tuner built-in for radio. And it sounds good for radio. I tried it out and it as if I would tune in on However, my picky eye in decimal characters are cropped slightly, but hey, nobody's perfect and frankly, But while we're on the let's talk about the software. Now I've heard some took Toshiba's software and but I'm here today to Many non-Apple portable ran Portable Media Center. Microsoft engineered the software and the Windows CE core it's based on, and they licensed it to other companies. So if you see some UI similarities between Toshiba's product and The Zune's graphical user which runs on top of Microsoft In fact, with some computer trickery you can access CE's desktop on a Zune. I'm using version 3.3 of the software, because version three was this device supports. But if you're curious, this is what version one of And you don't see this too often, because pretty much every The UI had smaller menu Future versions of the software featured Microsoft Segoe It's so thin and beautiful. The main menu lets you pictures, games and more. And you could customize And I think the UI still 15 plus years later. This whole shift of the flat look and these thin, clean fonts was a big visual change Internally, this was before it was officially named MDL, Microsoft Design Language. Although Microsoft did say Metro a lot when they demoed stuff publicly. - Metro, Metro, Metro. - A recurring theme with this UI is two-dimensional scrolling, in the Portable Media Center software. You can scroll up and down in a list, but you can also scroll Like, if you switch from And I was a bit confused at first, because I thought when you but no, it actually doesn't. Anytime you click a song, that lets you add it to or send it to somebody else. So you have to click play a second time. So it's kinda like you like, on a PC desktop just to play a song. Hey, now I know that. You can install games too. Some games were built-in, including Hexic, a game you play in portrait orientation, and Texas Hold'em, which you The social features were a big thing Microsoft was trying to push. I mean, heck, the whole tagline was, &quot;Welcome to the social,&quot; when I'm trying to think But Microsoft was trying around music and one of was you could take these and embed 'em on a website what you're listening to, and you can also see what I can't fully demo these social features, because Zune Social doesn't exist anymore. But there is one social and now we need to have a And depending on your sense of humor, you can interpret that Let me back up and add some context here. Squirting was the common term people used when referring to the Zune's This was one of the You could send pictures from if you two were nearby. And you could also share a for three days or three But I'm here to bust this myth. And I know we all love laughing apparently we're all 12 years old, and I think we have Steve I think Leo Laporte - Hey, baby, mind if I squirt you a song? - But this feature's official That's what the button says at least. And the official fact sheet calls it wireless Zune-to-Zune sharing. No mention of the word squirt anywhere. So I hate ruining the fun. Wait a minute, what am I talking The word squirt was not the official name. In fact, the term squirt for beaming a file from especially back in the And if you're interested, a system application called fsquirt.exe, you know, just in case you were curious. So that's the hardware and the software, but now how do you load onto these things? That's where the Zune The first and last major releases were versions one and four. So we'll take a look Upon installation, you're Okay, I'm gonna be very because this is a family-friendly show, and this can get R-rated very quickly, so just use your imagination. It looks like this was a but let's ignore it. The next screen says, - Welcome to the social. A social? Ice cream social? - I remember this slogan probably because it never made sense. I never even owned a Zune, yet I remembered this It's making more sense now that I'm actually using the Zunes. I kind of get it, but at Okay, now that the software is installed, let's absorb the skeuomorphic goodness. I really like how the are made to look like the The Zune software lets organize music, pictures and videos, and of course, you can sync It also has a compact mode. The software also gives you which replaced MSN music. You could purchase music here, TV shows and movies were added later, and you could also subscribe Zune Pass lets users download without having to pay for and you can play them as much as you want, as long as your membership was active. And in a November 19th, 2008 update, you could then keep 10 of those songs to permanently add to your library. At the time, I thought to rent your music, but (laughs) oops, that didn't age well. That's all I do nowadays. In fact, that's what a lot of us do. And Microsoft made a compelling argument when they challenged Apple's They said it would take about $30,000 to fill up an iPod classic But ultimately, even like a good idea, looking back, it wasn't enough to save the Zune. So my Zunes are running which are not compatible with version 1.0 of the desktop software. So that's why I installed On launch, version 4 brings You can change the default screen in the settings if you want. This screen's Metro style UI with tiles reflects the UI on the Zune HD, which we'll take a look at in a bit. The quick play screen look at newly added content When you play a song, all of your other album art The music scrubber sits at the bottom with a neat audio visualizer in the center and playback controls on the right. And they fade away after a The collection tab on top of your media, music, And again, the marketplace but those services don't exist anymore. Which is a bummer, because apps and games on my Zune HD? Don't worry, I have a little workaround. And you'll see it Zune. Soon. The social page is also inoperable, but it featured a friends list, an inbox, and your user profile page. And that brings us to the device tab. You can click this tab to view your Zunes or click the icon in the lower left. For quick syncing, you onto the Zune icon and it will sync. The device page lets and it shows a status bar You can also view the even if the Zune was originally synced with another computer, into your own library. I'm not 100% sure how that worked with DRM-protected content, but that was still a nice you could not merge libraries. If you synced your iPod you were forced to erase the iPod before any content was put on it. So we took a look at the and the first and last releases But we're just getting started. But before I continue, I in the tech community inside and outside of the Computer Clan who In short, I ordered one Little did I know that was a dead account, so I was in a big rush to get a new one. And also a big thanks to for all of the media player donations. So Microsoft had another the next generation of Zune. But it wasn't just one Zune, And I hope it works, because in the first quarter the project cost Microsoft $289 million. That was a lot of money But hey, it's young, right? Let's give it the benefit of the doubt. The second generation line was launched on November 13th, 2007. It introduced two size No brown this time. The smaller models featured of flash storage and the larger model used an 80 gigabyte hard disk. The available screen sizes and both models featured an upgraded scratch-resistant screen made of glass as opposed to plastic. And they featured a new Zune pad, which replaced the control Zune pad can be used with touch gestures and with physical clicks. The back inside of the new as opposed to the all plastic design. And the battery for the the last 30 hours with wireless turned off for music playback and four And I'm just making an but I think Microsoft wanted to compete with the iPod Nano, because this Nano was playing a big role in helping Apple cross 100 Funny enough, right before Apple ditched the tall look and made this cute little square. So I guess they look different enough now. You can't make a copycat argument anymore. But also in 2008 and 2009, Apple went back to the taller look. Then on September 16th, 2008, was introduced and a new 120 was introduced as well. Microsoft also considered based on this patent application, but this product never went to market. And that brings us to the which featured a big redesign in terms of the hardware and the software. And again, if I had to Microsoft released this to which at the time, sold 20 million units. So I present to you Zune HD. Zune HD ditched the Zune Pad in favor of a 3.3 inch all LED touchscreen at 480x272 resolution. Built inside of a new aluminium enclosure, designed in collaboration the same company Microsoft worked with for the Xbox 360 design. The home button is on the the power button is on top, and the media button is on the left, which lets you summon And the sync port is on the bottom along with the headphone jack. And it still said hello from Seattle, but it was on the side I'm not gonna lie. I mean, I grew up with the iPod, so I always just in my was the same size as the iPod But no, it's actually much smaller. But the cool thing is which the iPod is not. That means the black pixels making the blacks really black as opposed to a dark gray look. And this was one of the to ship with an all LED display. So I think that's a really cool feature and a good achievement. Zune HD's UI used the Metro It featured new animations, and lots of tile-like elements. Zune HD also featured an HD with an optional AV dock accessory. And to give Microsoft credit, this was a differentiator for the Zune. The iPod's video out go up to 480p and in some cases, 576p with Apple's Component AV Cable, according to the spec sheet. On the inside, Zune HD featured an NVIDIA Tegra APX 2600 arm processor, 128 megabytes of RAM, and an accelerometer for The home screen also when you tilt the Zune slightly, and it uses the accelerometer to do this. Unfortunately, there's which the iPod Touches had So that's a bit of a deal breaker for me. In terms of battery, for about 33 hours and and it was available in 16 flash storage configurations And for the first time on a Zune, there was a built-in web browser. Now Microsoft's new focus for the Zune HD was apps and games. That's why they moved to this So you can play on the and the software. But the Zune Marketplace So how the heck am I gonna With computer trickery, that's how. Thanks to the amazing on r/Zune and this guide I learned how to install and XNA Game Studio 3.1 With this installation, I was from the archives and deploy simply by double clicking And voila, I now have games on my Zune. Now I can play drums, 2048, Minesweeper, and my favorite game, Stopwatch. (laughs) Oh, yeah, new high score. And Zune HD received a 64 gigabyte option on April 9th, 2010 for $349. And that's it. Three years and three generations of Zune, and Microsoft let it go. I can't find any reports so maybe that's a good sign. But what happened next? On March 14th, 2011, mumblings suggested Microsoft ceased development of new Zune players due to low demand, but existing models remain for sale. On October 3rd, 2011, it would discontinue Zune hardware in favor of Windows Phone. But the Zune brand was still active on the software and services side. Now the demand for smartphones was growing as the demand for media So the Windows Phone focus Windows Phone 7 was a to Microsoft's Phone OS, featuring an all new user interface with the Metro design language, which again, was later named This style featured new clean typography with I'm sorry, I can't get And tiles, lots of live tiles. And many of these UI elements evolved from the Zune software. And Windows Phone 7's UI evolved into Windows 8, 8.1 and 10, and this style was a big part for years until it with the Fluent Design System in 2017. Rewinding back to June, they'd phase out the Zune brand for digital music and video services. And the Zune desktop software was replaced with the Windows Phone app. Then on November 15th, 2015, the final dwindling remnants The remaining Zune services and all Zune Music Pass into Groove Music Pass, which Microsoft killed two years later. Oh, for heaven's sake, Microsoft. Please just stick to something. Now, Microsoft didn't announce but they did say between the launch date and May, 2008, they did And maybe this trial and error where their focus should remain, because they're not a dumb company. They do a great job in many areas. Today, Microsoft's top are server and cloud services, Office, which is now part of Those three revenue streams made up 69% of Microsoft's 2022 revenue, And you don't just get there by mistake. You have to have a lot of So how, how on God's green and brown Earth did the Zune even fail? How could they not figure this out? Well, here's my breakdown. Reason one, lack of developer adoption. Many developers felt Microsoft's SDK for the Zune was incomplete. It did not offer full access and they were going up There was already a and the iPod Touch with That combination led to a which led to a lack of choices for apps and games for consumers. Reason two, some features lagged behind. Yes, there were some that the iPod didn't have at the time, but for the most part, I would consumers were concerned but they were in the iPod, For example, touchscreen features to download songs were two years before the Zune HD came out. And when the Zune HD was released, Apple was already on the And the app marketplace was huge for it, and a lot of developers because the SDK that worked for this also worked for the iPhone, which was growing a lot at the time. Still is today. And reason three is bad market timing. This is hard to gauge sometimes. I get it. But when the Zune came into the market, the iPod had already So it was already going And iPod sales continued to climb. But shortly after the iPhone launch and the smartphone revolution, iPod sales peaked and And the whole portable went down with it because Apple wasn't immune to this either. Their iPhone product Sales went down, and they So those are my three reasons, but I think Jim Kramer sums it up best. - [Jimmy] Apple had you beat - Oh, don't worry. I didn't The final myth I want to - Apparently the Zune zucked. - In my opinion, it I just don't think enough I would say a lot of the came from people that didn't But despite Microsoft's failed the products were good. And wireless syncing, that that the Zune had four with iTunes 10.5. So in terms of features, Microsoft was ahead in some regards. And the UI was much more which had good navigation, especially with the amazing click wheel. But the graphics were just kind of plain compared to that Metro style. So there's lots of positive and although it flopped, that I finally got to play with some. And it's really cool to that's still happy and thriving today that cherishes this device so much. Despite the Zune flopping, of smart people and problem-solving skills to make this thing happen. And regardless of the topic, I think learning how to And that's why I wanna Brilliant has thousands about computer science, neural networks, programming and more. And since you're watching me, I assume you're into tech, right? Then the &quot;How Technology Works No joke, I was so I was up past midnight learning which is a crucial technology that you're using right now to watch me. - [Some Girl] Ken, it's - Not now, babe. I'm learning You can try Brilliant free for 30 days. Simply visit brilliant.org/computerclan. And if you're one of the first 200 people to visit that link, you'll get 20% off your And when you do that, you're also supporting the Computer Clan. So thank you very much. Catch the crazy and pass it on. (bright energetic music) I'm sorry, I just need to out of your brains and mine,