This video was made possible by CuriosityStream. Watch thousands of high-quality documentaries using the link in the description. Abandoned at an Air Force Museum outside of Moscow, came from outer space. Designed 50 years ago by an eccentric visionary, ever built. An aircraft that could take off vertically, at high altitudes and harness the ground effect. But the story of this remarkable machine and By the 1960 s Soviet engineer Robert Bartini of his time. And when it came to transportation, he was After examining the speed, efficiency and of transportation known to man, he came to efficient form of transport would be a type A kind of machine that would skim over water called the ground effect. The ground effect occurs when fixed wing aircraft Air, normally deflected downwards and around a pocket of much higher air pressure, resulting It means unlike conventional aircraft, which ground effect machines can use size and mass beneath them. Bartini theorized that the efficiency of ground aircraft with extraordinary capabilities. In 1962, he outlined a concept that would combine versatility of a helicopter, by using lift By 1960 VTOL aircraft were becoming a reality. But they were highly impractical. The lift jets needed for vertical takeoff weight, severely limiting the aircraft s range But Bartini s design would harness the efficiency the inefficiency of vertical takeoff and landings. The result would be a machine that could truly Bartini would test his ideas using scale models machine, he would need a lot more resources. Fortunately for Bartini, an opportunity would In 1961 a new threat emerged off the coast had no answer. The latest generation of American submarines And they could stay submerged for weeks. It meant the Americans could keep their nukes And with over 70 thousand kilometers of coastline conventional navy would be next to impossible. Faced with an enormous strategic disadvantage, in Bartini s concept. Bartini proposed modifying his design into With a catamaran-like fuselage, his aircraft effect, giving it the endurance to fly long But it would also have wings so that it could Bartini would also equip the aircraft with pontoon system, giving it true amphibious Lift jets would allow for vertical take-off giving the aircraft the ability to operate from the Soviet Union. Equipped with anti-submarine weaponry, Bartini Impressed with the concept, Soviet leadership This was a design so unconventional, it looked Two bypass turbojets would allow the VVA-14 hour and to fly up to 33,000 feet if needed. Twelve lift jets would be fitted inside the pounds of thrust. Inflatable pontoons would allow for amphibious on the water, and other surfaces inaccessible To track down enemy submarines, a crew of navigation and search-and-aim system. And would and sonobuoys. With the ability to carry more than two tons and depth charges, the VVA-14 would be a formidable And development was to proceed under the highest in an aeroflot paint scheme and given civilian For Soviet leadership, this was their answer For Bartini, it would set the groundwork for Such a novel design would take years to develop, that the first prototype was ready for flight The VVA-14's development was to proceed in First, a prototype would be built without the aircraft's aerodynamic capabilities and A second prototype would then be built with the fly-by-wire and automation systems needed After that a final near production weaponized warfare systems. It was a logical plan. And although the program testing proved highly promising. The VVA-14 could settle into ground effect And for Bartini, it validated his earlier potential. Throughout the 1960 s he drew up designs for that could harness the ground effect at even Machines that could transverse oceans at aircraft-like Bartini was so sure of the concept, in 1970 proposal to develop 5,000 ton flying aircraft Enormous ground effect machines that would at speeds of up to 600 kilometers per hour. There seemed to be no limit to Bartini s imagination. But before any of his grander ideas could itself. Even before the first prototype lifted off, weren't going to go according to plan. The most crucial component of the entire concept And their development had been assigned to One already overburdened with other projects. And at fifty-seven tons, the VVA-14 would It's lift jets would need to produce more had ever built. Bartini doubted whether the engine builder And the VVA-14's inflatable pontoons also Designed to be inflated and deflated in the air from the aircraft s cruise engines to The pontoons proved to be so unreliable. They were eventually swapped out for metallic continue. But in reality, by 1974 technical issues with least of Bartini s concerns. It was becoming increasingly clear that lift And without them, vertical landings on sand, the inflatable pontoons pointless. Realizing that his entire concept was compromised. Bartini scrambled to modify the design. To allow the aircraft to take off from the he proposed lengthening the fuselage and adding The idea was to use the forward engines to But the modifications never worked. And Bartini would never live to see them tested. In December of 1974, he passed away at the Soon after, the VVA-14 program was cancelled of a more conventional anti-submarine aircraft. But had the VVA-14's development been successful, Design. Because Bartini had a vision for something With his belief in the revolutionary potential that a five-thousand ton flying aircraft carrier A machine that could rip across the surface in just hours, giving the Soviet Union an You can learn more about Bartini's most ambitious now, on Nebula. A streaming platform where you can watch videos and where you can access a growing number Nebula is where YouTube's top educational And the best part is, Nebula is free when A streaming service with thousands of big to technology to history and nature. If you re interested in learning more about the Moon, and learn why the world s first from the world for decades. Get an entire year of both CuriosityStream www.curiositystream.com/mustard and use the promo