Do stimulants change your personality? That's what I'm talking about today. I'm Dr. Tracey Marks, a Psychiatrist, and I make mental health videos. If you look up this you will probably find that I've done my own research like WebMD, where someone asked this But if you really do a on how these medications effect the brain, the longer answer is, probably. And I think the reason for of how we define personality. Your personality is really in adolescence to early adulthood, and is based on a number of factors including your genetics, your environment, how you were nurtured, etc. Probably the most popular that we hear about is And I would agree that it is going too far to suggest that these a narcissist. But in my own experience I've seen how these medications that people behave and feel. Would this be considered Probably not, but I do believe the medications they effect like how you express yourself. But this effect on your and it resolves when you My own clinical experience and it would be considered anecdotal based on a small sample size So the disclaimer here is and my opinion is that flattening of your emotional expressions, irritability, sadness, It can be similar to that you can get with anti-depressants, and I did a video where I I think it's easier for that they're behaving or but for adolescents it to see the medication as the culprit. They can just sink into a depression and have angry outbursts, or just think that this is how they are or this is how life is. I scoured the internet to support my opinion, I did see articles how stimulants affect the and probably negatively This article was very hard to decipher, and I have it and others But that's not the This has to do with whether the way you process taking them before your The human brain fully the mid to late 20's. But I did find a couple of ADHD and emotional regulation, and this is how I feel it that for some people stimulants And there are several areas of the brain that are involved in executive concentration, ability to complete a task or delay an impulse. And one of the major regions this is where the medications They increase norepinephrine and dopamine in this area of the brain. People with ADHD also have and this isn't to the like in Bipolar Disorder. We're talking about being overreactive, like jumping to a quick conclusion, before you have a chance So here's where I think comes into play. The emotional reactivity shows up on functional in the medial pre-frontal cortex. Stimulants reduce the and therefore have the with ADHD less reactive. And this is supposed to be a good thing, and many people will If that's you, you may feel or you have the ability to before speaking. But maybe with some people, and blunts you down to where Also there's research response curve to the stimulants. At low doses of the medication, you get improved emotional regulation and cognitive function, but at high doses you go backwards and see irritability and impaired So when it comes to developing another possibility is past this point on the curve, and you're in the zone and having a low mood. Because of the differences in it's hard to know what It's normal to develop a such that you need more over You're still getting increased in your pre-frontal cortex, it just doesn't have the So you increase the dose, of norepinephrine and dopamine, and you start to respond and focus improve. But because you have even more that higher dose may put when it comes to your mood. Now these are just my hypotheses but the flattening, the feeling or feeling outright depressed, is a real thing when taking stimulants, despite the fact that there's not much written about it in the literature. And I've seen this lack of For years, Psychiatrists like me, little folks in private on the forefront of research, knew and saw that withdrawal gave people brain shocks. I did a video on this that you can watch at the end of this video, the link will be in the description. And for years, I never It's only been recently about the phenomenon. In fact, one of the online research from people talking about the effects. So the researchers surveyed those people and got their feedback. Some articles have been critical of the American scientific community, for ignoring the issue for so long. So I suspect this issue with stimulants may be a similar situation, and at some point in the future, we may see more written about this. But to be clear, I'm not to treat ADHD. For some people they're a game changer. It's like the medication and makes you feel that and you can do well. But this issue of emotional blunting, or depression when taking them, is just something to look out for, especially in children and adolescents. Changing the stimulant to It really has to be a personal decision whether or not you take or whether you allow your Those developmental and it can be hard for a child to recover from a rocky academic start. But on the other hand, there that these medications can in the brains of children and adolescents than it otherwise would in adults. If your attention is causing serious functional or even in your home life, then the risk of taking the negative, or any negative on your emotional expression or on your child's brain development. I talk more about ADHD as a See you next time.