- So there are many and mine is just one. Sometimes, people who really hate gender name me as the one who made this up, but that's actually not true. You know, in my view, everybody and what I mean by that is that everybody has about what gender is or should be. And at a certain point in &quot;Wow, where'd that assumption come from?&quot; (Judith laughs) At this point, I'm less concerned about and whose theory is wrong because the assault on gender is also an assault on democracy. We have the power and the freedom to make more livable lives for ourselves, where bodies can be more free without discrimination and I am Judith Butler, distinguished professor at the University of I teach literature, philosophy, and I'm most well-known &quot;Gender Trouble&quot; and &quot;Bodies That Matter&quot; My work has been translated (pensive music) I insist that what it is to be a woman, or indeed what it is to be is an open-ended question. (pensive music) We have a whole range of so I don't deny them, but I don't think they in some sort of final way. At the heart of these controversies is the distinction between sex and gender. But what is that distinction? How do we think about it? Sex is generally a category that has importance within Gender is a mix of cultural family influence, psychic And we have a say in that. My early life was affected by the 1960s and the social movements that I grew up on the East side of Cleveland, part of a Jewish community, and by the time I was in high school, I was politically active. But I was also taking university In my 20s, I came to see that it was not just the and extinguished by the Nazi regime. It was queer people, it it was people with disabilities, people with illnesses, And my sense was that one that many people have been and to understand that there are different I remained convinced that in order to make sure it does not repeat and that one wants justice not just for the group but for any group that In the '70s and '80s, I was part of a movement of people who were rethinking Queer theory was emerging. It was in a complicated Trans issues had not yet surfaced as part of our contemporary reality, so it was a moment in which &quot;What has society made of us, and what can we make of ourselves?&quot; There were a number of that I tended to oppose. One of them held that, well, women are fundamentally mothers and that maternity is the And then a second one thought that feminism was about sexual difference, but the way they defined sexual difference was always presumptively heterosexual. And both of them struck me as wrong. I was pretty committed to the idea that people ought not to on the basis of what who they love, or how they All I was saying is that the and the gender that you are taught to be should not determine (film camera rolling) Sometimes, people point as the inception of gender theory, but people were working Gayle Rubin, and Juliet Mitchell, and Simone de Beauvoir herself. Simone de Beauvoir was an and a feminist philosopher who wrote &quot;The Second Sex&quot; in the 1940s. The basic point is that but rather becomes one, She opened up the between the sex you're assigned (pensive music) Gayle Rubin was an anthropologist, and remains an anthropologist, who wrote an extremely influential article called &quot;The Traffic in Women.&quot; And what she tried to say was that the family was a structure whose task it was to reproduce gender, and one of the aims it had was to kind of keep heterosexuality And although it was part at the time, it allowed us to start as something that could be and that there were systems, frameworks, to which gender belongs. There was one other which was, interestingly, psychoanalysis. She basically said, &quot;Well, maybe there's a going into becoming a man and a whole lot of repression and that one of the things with existing gender norms is to rule out all those possibilities of being, feeling, doing, loving that don't line up with the gender norms that are governing our lives. So anthropology, psychoanalysis, they all had their place in that moment way before &quot;Gender Trouble&quot; I think at the time that people treated gender as or a sociological reality, but they didn't treat it as something that you Performance is important to this extent that we do enact who we are, and anybody in performance studies actually knows that there are performances that we do in our lives that are not mere When performative was the philosopher J.L. Austin was trying to understand legal utterances. So when a judge says, &quot;I you become man and wife once That's not fake, that happened. Now, what if we were to say that in enacting our lives we are actually realizing we are making something real happen. When gay and lesbian or when trans people something changed in the world. By appearing, speaking, reality changed. And it has changed. We are seeing the changing of terms. We no longer speak about sex in the same way. Even the Cambridge Dictionary (Judith laughs) acknowledges that something has changed. Okay, so when we talk about performative, we're talking about an act that makes something come into being or an act that has real consequences. We're talking about the Even among progressive there can sometimes be a real resistance to thinking about trans rights, or even women's rights. They sometimes say that or it simply makes them uncomfortable. &quot;Why should I have to refer to someone as a he, or a she, or a they?&quot; And yet, at least in the US, we've learned how to talk or we talk about women differently. And sure, it was probably hard to learn how to use new language. Maybe we had to adjust our habits. But stumbling is part of learning and making an error is part of learning, especially when we're Sometimes, we can all be vitriolic, right? Some certain statements will but if I only were to do that, then I would never be having I think we all want to be the like, &quot;That's right, that's wrong.&quot; &quot;You're canceled, you're not.&quot; &quot;You're with me, you're against me.&quot; But we have to allow and accept the invitation to because that's the only way of being open to people who are trying to for the very first time, to be heard, to be known, to be acknowledged. (uplifting music) Now, I'm less interested in I'm much more concerned with finding creative and effective ways of countering the attack on gender. One problem is that many people who refuse to allow trans people to define themselves is that they feel that is destabilized. The idea that we can change to be more open, inclusive, there's an instability in that that's very frightening to people who want to understand But is anybody's gender or is it a complicated emergence that happens with each of us? Our deepest sense of self and we can't always know, in (uplifting music) Freedom is a struggle because that's telling us not to And if we are seeking to and move in a free way, we actually have to struggle When we live in a democracy, we assume that we're living according to certain principles - equality, freedom, justice - and yet we're constantly and what equality is, And those challenges, right, the anti-slavery movement, the movement for LGBTQIA+ rights, I mean, each of those struggles involve challenging Who's equal? Who has the right to be free? And how do we define justice? We are, all the time, We need to reoccupy these notions and show that concerns and gender equality, and gender freedom are an integral part of especially if we want to and what it means for them to (uplifting music) - [Crew] Let's just wrap Unless you want to take we can go back to that. Do you want to get... Let me give you the prompt for the last- - My whole life, I've wanted I can never take a break from gender. - [Announcer] Get smarter faster with videos from the To learn even more from the get Big Think+ for your business.