LYDIC: It's home to theme parks, and, of course, Florida Man. NEWSCASTER: ...police report, on a tree, NEWSCASTER 2: Tried to start NEWSCASTER 3: LYDIC: Every week there's wild, shocking, NEWSCASTER 4: A man masturbating told police he was Captain Kirk. LYDIC: But have we ever stopped Something's happening and it can't just be As a future it's my responsibility to reveal what lies to answer the question, -A Florida man... -Florida Man... -Florida Man... First thing I did mostly on Craigslist I needed to locate some First up is Robby. Last July he ran with a live alligator NEWSCASTER: decided to bring an alligator while making a beer run. Yeah, I definitely regret it. Talk to me about the night Can't really tell you much There was too much alcohol Not just alcohol, though. There's probably No, it was alcohol. What was it about Florida It was hot. It was humid. The heat makes you do The heat Alcohol makes you do But isn't there something There's something behind it. Mental health issues? LYDIC: And this wasn't NEWSCASTER: He's been hit and this video showing him which he posted, My real name's Jordan Bedford, Okay. Um, Alligator Man, what's the common factor We all different. Well, because do I the wrong thing if that makes sense. -No. -No? See, so you don't understand what I'm talking right now, Anything you think of, -Can't... Like I tell you. Anything. I catch gators. -Anything? -Well, not anything. But basically anything -when it comes Mainly the alligators, though. Like, here in Florida, you not I mean, I didn't know that I just had a little fun, and danced What kind of dancing did you do The Alligator Man dance. You got to kick your feet, spell &quot;alligator&quot; in the sand As you're going around, and you end it with a stomp. The Alligator Man -You have a commercial? I got a theme song. Nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, That is 100% Well, it's I see what you're saying about doing the wrong thing -and how it works. Where you do find alligators If there's a lake, I promise you. There's gators everywhere. -These chairs are very hard LYDIC: So many Florida Men, Surely there's a Florida Man Hi, missy, and I hail out of the island down in the Florida Keys. Cool. And you're a... pirate? Well, I'm a pirate When I'm not, I'm a landscaper. What could a landscaper pirate REPORTER: A man dressed of shooting his gun in South Florida. So, I took out my flintlocks -Oh. -Now, mind you, -you can put that-- You don't -Just put it away. Why do you defend what you did? Well, I defend Your Second Amendment right Yeah. Why not? How exactly did you become To become a Florida man, and experience the life to hone your skills to be, in my case, Have you always been Ah, no. Originally, Oh, so you're a transplant. I was then. But since then, I've lived What do you think is behind Must be in the water that drive us to what we do. It's a water conspiracy. And, uh, women. -Women. They're the ones LYDIC: And while I was running I was heading There had to be What was I missing? There was something different So many Florida Man stories Did Florida reporters I went to to meet a very casually dressed What can you tell me I mean, I have my own research, -but you just give me yours -just so we can compare notes. I mean, they are true. People do weird things here and, uh, it gets into the news. -Yeah. No shit. A major factor the least populated to now being the third most -Sure. -This nerd knew and while he mostly rambled, ...built tons of homes where there used to be If there's a lake, You can get just about any kind -This is me knife. in funding Mental health issues. Another big factor in the nation to pass called the Sunshine Act that basically any government for reporters to go in and see. Police reports, for instance, for inspection by reporters. And that's when it hit me, the missing piece ...by a guy named Emory-- -That's it. -It's the Sunshine Act. It's not what causes it's why we hear Yeah. Pretty much. I just figured it out I'm a bleep genius. Florida Man has been the butt But maybe that's not fair. Well, this guy was The Sunshine Act to discover But I was just scratching We may not hear about them but it turns out there are -REPORTER: He tried to shoot the Masturbating LYDIC: And while Florida America's petri dish the truth is, there's a little