Innovation and emerging technologies influence our It's hard to believe there was ever a time when Instagram or sharing our opinions through a time was as recent as a decade ago. Top 10 technologies to learn in 2023 shift will take place - whether it's now learning! Being aware of the New Technological You can invest in upskilling yourself in the with Edureka online training certification courses live instructor-led training, 24/7 tech cloud lab, and much more. At #Number 1 we have This year AI and ML will continue technologies of the current times. Your intelligent device will automatically Planning a marketing campaign? Your your customers into groups for targeted According to the IHS report, in 2015, in new vehicles was only 8%; this number The average annual salary for AI engineers in annual average AI engineer salary is around as high as 50 lakhs to 1 crore per annum. tech giants you can think of, they are putting The future belongs to this technology. And there You can check out the latest trending tech On #Number 2 we have In the fast-growing Tech-world, where there crimes are increasing at an even bigger rate. cybercrime losses are now more than $1 trillion. high and there aren't enough security experts to meet the demand. salaries for well-trained cybersecurity why learning and upskilling in cybersecurity The average cyber security salary in India is it is $115,867 per annum. cybersecurity resulted in more than 50,000 with cybersecurity job postings on Indeed include If there was ever a time to enter Apply for Edureka's Cyber Security Training Courses and Hackproof your career! The world is talking about the Metaverse At #Number 3 we have METAVERSE. metaverse as &quot;the internet that you're The metaverse is a network of shared, immersive friends, create and play games, work, and shop. metaverse-like experiences, such as virtual Metaverse can give a realistic approach where According to a report, Facebook will create via the metaverse.As per the Goldman Sachs worth $2 to $12 trillion in the future. Gucci, Samsung, Adidas, and Nike have value in the metaverse and have come up The world is gearing up At #Number 4 we have In its most basic form, DevOps is a collaboration significant changes in the DevOps ecosystem advancements. New practices, technologies, and be right now n and in the future. 18,000+ jobs available for Devops there are 144,000+ jobs in the United States. annum in India. In the United States, a A few companies that are on a hiring spree Target, Walmart, Meta, Etsy, and Adobe. and learn from industry experts, do check out On #Number 5 we have Full Stack web developers can easily handle the multiple areas. A Full Stack web Developer is frontend development and backend development. the demand for full-stack web developers has Another report from the US Bureau of of jobs available for these professionals will An experienced full-stack web developer can earn India.According to Glassdoor, The developer in the US is $109,393. and Accenture are a few companies that are on a If you incline to dabble with technology and Development. Check out Edurekais courses on toward a brighter future! BlockChain far beyond cryptocurrency and bitcoin. Gartner blockchain will grow rapidly, reaching $176 The average salary of a blockchain developer in experience, a blockchain developer can expect to developer's average salary in the US is $136,000. developers are Infosys, TCS, Accenture, You can learn more about Blockchain through industry professionals. CLOUD COMPUTING longer optional. To remain competitive, one has to IT.Healthcare companies are using the cloud to Financial services companies are using the cloud And video game makers are using the millions of players around the world. Apple, Netflix, Google, and eBay are Cloud architects can earn between 10 LPA to 20 in India. In the United States, the salary range Stay on top of the cloud cloud computing online training certifications. LEARNi TECHNOLOGIES in 2023 is HyperAutomation involves the use of multiple Machine Learning, and Automation technologies Natural Language Processing to automate Techies who know Hyper Automation earn an $127,000 in the United States. are Operating in Hyper Automation Market are TCS, and Appian to name a few. the drive towards hyper-automation will lead 20 software that enables hyper-automation. a cut above the rest, You must check out On #Number 9 we have - No wonder why Data Science makes it to this list data has made data science an attractive career then develop models and algorithms US News ranks data scientists at #3 on its list all jobs. There has been a 650% increase in million jobs are expected to be added by 2026. in the US is a whopping 111,000$, in Scientist is 11 Lakhs per annum. JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co., Amazon, EY, and PwC If you too are willing to take a Edurekais Data Science Certification course On #Number 10 of the top 10 Business Intelligence a pool of raw data into useful information that yield positive bottom-line impact. Express to social media giant Facebook, in the world leverage the power of BI. BI developers is incredibly high. The average India and $134,000 in the United States. include SAP, Microsoft, Azure, Mphasis, Confused about how to start? Check out Courses from the description box below. trending Technologies to learn in 2023. and tell us about the latest technologies which and should have been on our list.