Let's roll the cameras. Another game. And black against 1396. OK, so obviously we play the Sicilian and we are still at the stage when a lot of players play either anti Sicilians or they play, you know, offbeat Sicilians such as Knight F Three and Bishop C Four, like I as I call it, the Italian against the Sicilian. Although I think the official name is the Bowler Attack. Here we're facing Knight B one Two, C Three, which is the jumping, uh, off point to a variety of different anti Sicilians. You might recognize the Grand Prix Attack, which is the move F Four on move three. There is also the closed Sicilian which is the Kingside bishop Ian Keto on the next move. And of course, Knight C Three does not necessarily preclude the possibility that white goes back into the open Sicilian against virtually any of black's moves. White responds in many cases with Nike G One to F Three and then plays D Four and then gets back into an open Sicilian. So because we are accelerated dragon players in this speed run, it makes perfect sense for us to uh, roll out and corresponding setup as we've done before. And that set up, of course, starts with the move night C Six. Now, I'll talk a little bit after the game, and I've done this before about which move you should play based on what variation of the open Sicilian you play. If you're a night orph player, you actually don't want to go night C Six here. This is a pretty well known idea because white can what's called move order you into a Sicilian that you don't play by flipping back into an open Sicilian, if that makes sense. And of course, in the night or if the knight doesn't come out to C Six. So I'll expand on that a little bit. Bishop E Five is the third major antisicilian variation. I don't think this has a name. Um, but this line has been around for, for decades now and it's a, it's a pretty, it's like a faceless anti Sicilian. It can be a very dangerous line if black is not pretty familiar with uh, the theory. Black can get a bad position positionally. And tactically it, it resembles a rosalimo, but of course it's inferior to Aurosalimo in, uh, the Rosalimo. There is a knight on F three. And the function that that knight fulfills is of course, it protects the D four square. So the principled move here and the move that we are going to play and this is also the response to Bishop G Five and the trampowski, right? It's a pretty common general type of move across many openings. And that is, of course, knight C six to D four. And yes, we're moving the same piece more than once, true. But in this case, it's pretty clear that this knight is a pretty monster piece. And we're also pressuring the Bishop. So the main line here for White is bishop B five to C four. Knight F three is a sideline. And I'll make an honest confession straight away. This is not a sideline that I remember the theory of very well. So uh, we're just going to have to make some stuff up here and that's kind of going to be fun. Now, the first move I think is quite obvious. The reason we play 94 is to eliminate the bishop on B five. This move doesn't make much sense. It just allows White to bring their queen out and then we're not developed at all so we might as well give this night up for the bishop. So we take the bishop and now the vast majority of people and this might be the move we play as well, I think would instinctively play a six here, right? A six of course is a uh, natural human instinct and it pushes the knight back to C three. But I would push back on the idea that a six is necessarily forced, right? And it's, it's worthwhile to explore these instincts you often have because they can actually be wrong the night on B five. It's not all that dangerous as a standalone piece, right? So we actually could play a move such as D six or we could play even a move such as knight G Eight to F Ah Six. Trying to exploit the fact that the pawn on E four is temporarily undefended and Knight F Ah Six is quite an interesting move here as far as I vaguely remember. Um, so let me take a moment here to think about what we want. To play. A six is the, is the natural move and then we can transpose into a bit of a Nidorf setup by playing a six and then D six. We actually could get into like a souped up Nidorf if White ends up playing D Four, which I think he very well might, and because I am a Nidorf player myself, this is something people might not know. I played the Nidorf Sicilian from the time that I was about one six 1700 to the time that I was a uh, 2500 GM. So I played the nitor for many, many years and that is the setup I feel most comfortable with. And so for that reason we are going to play a six, chase the night away. And of course after the game we will explore the theory, we'll do some research and we will figure out the best setup against bishop B five. And now, uh, we're going to roll out the pawn and put it on D six. And as we predicted, White plays D four and we get uh it's wrong to call this an open Sicilian. This is still an anti Sicilian because White lacks the lightskirt Bishop. So fundamentally the position is quite different from uh, any nidorph that we could get. And here we don't have much of a choice. We don't want to allow White to take on C Five and favorably trade queens, drawing our king out of its shell. So, of course we want to play CD. And our opponent clearly going down a theoretical line. I think we're still stuck in theory. Now, I could talk about this position for ages, but in the interest of time, I'm going to hit on the important points. There are going to be a couple of moves in the next few moves, which I think the people watching you might not fully understand them, you might have objections to them. And I promise that I'll expand more after the game, but I want to keep some time on my clock. This seems to be a dangerous opponent. So what is black's fundamental issue in this position? We have the bishop pair, which is great. Our pawn structure is very healthy. The issue is that we lack development. Right. We are seriously behind a development, and that's always a dangerous moment. Right. We don't have a single piece developed, so you might say, okay, well, let's get started. Let's go night F six, right? The issue with night F six is that white can actually strike in the center with E five. Now what happens in that variation? Well, after e five, we play D, takes E five white traits queens, and then takes back on e five with the knight attacking the F seven pawn. And even though the queens are off the board, it doesn't mean that White's initiative suddenly subsides. If you visualize that position, you'll see that it's quite unpleasant for black. We have to move the king back to E eight, and then white gets the bishop out. And that just seems like a pretty unpleasant position. So we need to do something about the possibility of White playing E five. And yes, this something involves a serious positional concession, but I vote we make a positional concession rather than get crushed in some endgame where we're not developed developing any pieces. What am I talking? Well, definitely not f six. That is way too big of a concession. Way too big of a concession. Let's beat them to it. And this is a pretty typical move in certain Nydorflike positions. And I'll introduce a, uh, couple of other examples to you. Queen before. Something tells me at this point, either this is ridiculous level of preparation, or our opponent is, uh, just BSing. Something tells me he's not BSing. Queen before actually looks like a great move. This is a very high level move. So, yeah, I'm getting out theoret, but that's okay. We're going to figure it out. So you might see the move D five and assume that it's good for black, but we're not ready to play D five. Right. We would be biting off way more than we can show. After D five, um, the queen will drop back to B three, and then our e five pawn is going to be hanging. I actually don't even want to calculate that line. I think we can do without D Five, so we lack development. We have also created a major weakness on the D Five square. So we've got a lot of problems to solve here. And the issue with the move knight, uh, F six, is that White brings the bishop out to G five. And this is a classic positional idea. I call this the Smith Slove idea, and I'll show you the stem game after we finish. Basically, uh, it's very simple to understand. White takes the night away and then sticks his own knight on D five. And that's the last thing we want. We want to be able to contest the D Five square with our knight. So, unfortunately, this is not a move I really want to play, but I think we have to play it. Starting with bishop p seven puts a bandaid over the problem. But after bishop e seven night F six, again, white is going to play bishop G five. I think we have to eliminate White's control over the G five square and play another pawn move. I know we're testing the limits of the strategy, but our structure is still very fundamentally sound, right? Everything is defending each other. Yes, we have a weakness on D five, but I don't feel like we're getting checkmated here. Concretely, I feel like we're finally ready to bring our pieces out. And once we do, we've got a lot of hidden assets in this position, which can start coming out if our opponent doesn't manage to continue the initiative. And, uh, conducting the initiative is one of the hardest skills in chess, and it's a skill that many GMs don't aren't perfect at, uh, bishop E three. So our opponent develops the bishop, and finally we can start developing our own piece. So, without a second thought, we play the move night F six. You might notice that White has bishop to B six here, which our opponent might play. But this is not, I think, such a scary move. We bring our queen up to D seven, and that's a little bit awkward because it blocks the development of the LightSquared bishop. But the queen can park itself on C six later to make space for the bishop. So bishop be six played. We can also play queen E seven, but that's actually far more awkward. What is our priority here? Well, our priority, as you should understand, is to develop your, um actually, wait. There's a crazy idea here for White. Let me think about this for a second. Wow. I'm speechless. There's a crazy idea that's making me speechless, and it's actually working. Um, so this is in response to queen D seven. The crazy idea is rook D one. And if we play queen C six there, we're walking into knight F three, takes E five, de five, and then rook D eight. Checkmate. So we have to solve that problem. This is beyond my pay grade. I'll be totally honest. Okay, well, we have ways to solve that problem. Let's go. Queen D seven. Anyway, White can also castle Queenside, which is a super high level move. Okay, um yeah, this is not great. I'm getting outplayed here. So what we have to do is move the queen. We have to move the queen because White is threatening knight takes E five. But where do we move it? Well, we have to move it on a square such that the queen defends E five. Does that make sense? Uh, otherwise, White will play night takes E five and deliver checkmate on you. So the only square that I see is actually E six. It's not a great square because we're still blocking our LightSquared. Bishop. But as long as we manage to castle, I feel like we'll be okay. I am very worried about the move Bishop to C seven here. Um, I feel like that's what a GM would play, and I think that forces us to get into a pawn down endgame. I mean, it's not great, but it's something. And I have to say this. Bishop B. Five line. In my defense, the reason I don't really know it that well is because I am a Nidor flare. And for my whole life, I have avoided this line by playing D six in this position. In retrospect, maybe we should have done that, but I'm offering an official Accelerated Dragon repertoire, and I will have gaps in that repertoire myself. So I think that's part of the fun. Right? We do research, and I fill those gaps myself. Okay, um, bishop C seven played. Oh, I can't even wait. No, I can't play d five. Um, we have to play D five because otherwise White takes on D Six. So we have to try this move by hooker, by Crook. Like, we have to attempt this move. Um, and let's see how White responds in this position. I'm worried about just knight takes D five. Just Knight takes D five, and that's basically resignable after Night takes D five. Yeah. In this position, because I can't take the Queen. It's mate. Okay, that was some bait for a stream snack. Okay. Queen a five. Yeah. I'm starting to smell a rat. Okay, let's go, D four. Let's see how our opponent responds in this position. So d four. Now, this could still be theory, and if it is, then I stand corrected. Something tells me it's not. Okay, there's nothing we can do. Let's set everything aside. We've been in this situation before in the speedrun, and I haven't been happy with how I handled it. My request to everyone in the chat is that we basically treat this like a normal game. We do our best, and if I lose, we'll check the game. If I believe he's cheating, I will let you know. But right now, we have this game, I can still try to play the best moves and that would be in the best spirit of what we're doing, the speedrun. Um, it doesn't matter what if we're playing Magnus, right? It's completely lost for black at this point, but White still needs to find a couple of moves here and the move that I think White needs to find is knight f three takes e five. The problem problem is that we can't take the knight. That's the issue. Um, and the reason we can't take the knight is because of rook Dhek, king e seven and queen c five with mate. So as black here, there's only one thing that we can do, and that's try to castle kingside. So the only move here is bishop to e seven. We're going to have to give up both of our center pawns and castle. Yeah. This is the strongest opponent we've not only have we ever faced in sooner, but this is the strongest one I have ever faced, period. The last time I got crushed like this was maybe when I was like, 1600. Um, but let's see how our opponent handles the ensuing complications. Let's give him the benefit of the doubt and let's assume that all of this was theory, that this is some deep chestable preparation. Um, now comes the moment when our opponent really has to demonstrate some technique. The game is far from over. The game is not over. Um, we can still hold this. You've seen me survive crazier positions, so we're going to give our opponent the benefit of the doubt and I'm going to try to outline how I try to survive dead loss positions, which is another important topic in the meantime. And our opponent finally taking his time. That's a good sign, that's a good sign. So what's happening in this position? Well, I would have taken on D four, as probably would 99% of people in the chat within like, two or 3 seconds. Our opponent is contemplating other candidate moves. I assume there is a crazy idea that white has here. I won't quite reveal it, but if it's played, I will confirm that that was the idea. So let's see what our opponent comes up with here. He's now taken quite a while. Queen a four, check. So it's a check. Right. And we can do a bunch of things here. I don't want to go king FA, that's just way too ugly. We can play bishop to d seven, but then that allows Simplification. We don't want Simplification because we're down a bunch of ponds. Probably we should play them with b five, but then white has knight takes b five, a takes b five, and the rook on a eight hangs at the end of the line. Right. Unfortunately, after b five, knight takes b five, and then we can castle, but then the knight comes around and takes the pawn on d four, and our queen is actually trapped there. Our queen is actually trapped in that position. So I have an idea, but this is like the flimsiest of possible ideas. It's interesting though. We're going to go B five. We're going to go B five. Now first of all, it's not a given that our opponent sees knight takes B five. All these mini tactics are not that easy to spot for players in this rating range. But thus far, our opponent has shown quite an ability to navigate the complexity at a grand master level. Um, and Knight takes V five is no exception. My idea was bishop to D seven. I actually think this is a very clever concept, folks, so give this a chance. Bishop d seven. Okay. Now I thought I might win a piece here. Queen Takes D. Seven. And the knight is now hanging. We are threatening to capture it with our queen. Let's see what I missed here. Let's see what I missed here. I mean, I'm sure it's winning somehow, but the thing is, we are threatening to take the night with our queen and it's not so easy to defend the night. I mean, white can play the move C four. But then already we castle and white's pieces get very loose. Oh, I see, there's the move knight B five. I think to C three, which I'm sure our opponent probably saw a mile away. But listen, it leads to an end game and endgame's, even completely lost ones lead to long games. Long games allow us to milk some clock and perhaps we can embark on a campaign of trying to milk white's clock down. We've already gotten like four minutes off of it, which against an opponent of this caliber is quite the achievement. Let's see what our opponent comes up with here. And for those watching on YouTube and kind of rolling their eyes and being like, why am I not saying what's on everybody's mind? Again, if you haven't seen my previous speeds, I have a very strict policy for games in which players play suspiciously, where I don't comment on their play as long as the game is going. When the game ends, I share my thoughts. But first and foremost, we look at the game carefully with an engine. We give everybody the benefit of the doubt. Again, always the thought experiment you should do is like, what if you just played the best game of your life? Uh, most of you have played 99% accuracy games. How would you feel if you were the person who has just played a perfect game and 3000 people are shouting that you're a cheater, right? You would not want to be treated that way. And um, I really believe in putting yourself in someone else's shoes. With that said, I'm not going to let people slide if it's obvious that they're cheating. But we're first going to investigate carefully with an engine. That's how you have to do it. Not trying to virtue signal here. That's truly what I believe in, um, because there are truly many instances where somebody has preparation or you think that they're cheating, but then you check with the engine and they're actually not playing top computer moves. That also happens, but you've gotten it in your head that they're cheating. So it's super important, I think, not to do this. So our opponent is thinking he's deep in the thought we're actually making some progress on milking the clock. I really think knight C three is the only move. What's interesting is there's this move, knight B five to D six. Check. And what happens in that line? 96, check. We play bishop takes D six, and the queen on a four is hanging. So if we calculate that line, 96, check. Bishop takes D six. Queen takes queen, king takes queen. Bishop takes bishop, king takes bishop. We're up a night, and in that resulting position, there is a fork. E five. Check. But that pawn is undefended. We can just take it. If White had a pawn on F four, then this line actually would have worked and liquidated into a winning rook end game. Probably, uh, DK guy is asking, is, okay, night C three found by our opponent. So we have no choice at this point. So, first of all, we cannot take the night because the pawn is pinned. Everybody should see that we have to trade queens because the queens are in contact and our queen is pinned. So we have two ways of doing this. We can try to castle, but that makes no sense to me because that gives White an even better version of the swinging endgame. So we should at least take and now we should make a decision. There is, of course, knight takes C four. But the reason knight takes C four doesn't work is because of rook H to E one. And the pressure down the E file is way too powerful, I think. Yeah, it is, actually. It's not as easy as it may seem there to finish me off. I think the alternative is, again, to castle. There's also the move rook C eight here try to hit the bishop, but the bishop can just drop back to E five. That's actually even better square than C seven. So that's counterproductive. We're going to be down three pawns if we castle. So knight 64 might be the practical attempt against how do I put this delicately? Against another player. I might play night 64, but in the interest of prolonging the game, I'm going to castle, try to get our opponent to use clock, which, unfortunately, he has stopped doing. Okay, um, well, let's bring the rook into the game. Not much that we can do here other than just sort of sort of sit around and wait for White to convert his three extra ponds. But another note that I'll make as you're watching this, is that if you are trying to figure out if someone's cheating. Don't resign out of disgust. Actually try to play real chess because you're going to, uh, actually build up evidence. Okay, so if he is cheating, then a 50 move game is usually a lot more compelling than a ten move game where you just resign because you're disgusted. So play real chess. And this is what I'm doing here. I'm bringing my rooks into the game. I'm trying my best. We're just down three puns. That's the reason black is lost. Our, uh, pieces are actually the best that they have been all game long. But at this point, we're waging two different battles. We're obviously trying to gauge our opponents play. And I'm still trying to save this endgame, right? Because on the off chance that white actually starts playing in a semiflawed manner, we will have a chance. Okay? So we've gotten White to think again. We've gotten White to spend half of his time. So maybe if we can make another 23 moves, we'll have a shot. Although something tells me it's not really the case. Night C three. Good move. So what we want to avoid here with black are trades, right? We want to keep as many pieces on the board as possible for as long as possible. And in the interest of avoiding trades, uh, we don't want to go Bishop C five here because of rook to D eight check. So we basically just want to sit around and wait. And for that reason, I'm going to play King H seven. Um, so that when we move our bishop, rook D eight is no longer going to be a check. It's still probably going to force a rook trade, and it's obviously still winning. There's just not much that I can do here. Common misconception. Like, I'm a GM. People think that it's impossible to bring GMs down. They never die. But there are certain positions where, uh, you see what I see. It's not like I see something special here and I'm going to create chances. Like, basically, black just needs to sit around and wait and hope that white makes a blunder, which is increasingly unlikely. Night h five. Only move. Okay, this targets the bishop, so okay, rook D seven. Okay, let's go bishop before still trying. Um, I've drawn these types of positions in blitz, that's for sure. But as I've tried to explain many times and I might do a video on this actually, I've never done a video on I've talked about this on stream a lot. And that's the concept of, like, how do I know when someone's cheating? What stands behind my intuition that someone's not playing honestly? And part of it is this feeling I always refer to that you're playing against a wall, right? No matter what you come up with, your opponent has the perfect response available to it, uh, in response to it. And it's just like this total feeling of hopelessness that's really hard to actually quantify. It's just a feeling you get born of, uh, a lot of experience. We're going to go rookie eight here, try to take on G Three and moon back at least one of the pawns. And I'm definitely getting that feeling very strongly in this game from the very opening moves, like from the very moment that our opponent blitzed out that crazy preparation. Rookie two. Yeah, I mean, I'm going to try to blockade with rookie six. Notice that I'm trying to play super resiliently, not giving our opponent an easy job. But of course, White is totally winning because he's just up three pawns. King d two, f four, maybe even f four immediately. That's what I would play. But that's that's a GM move, f four, because you have to give up a pawn and people don't like giving up their extra pawns. And then just push F Five and E six and White's black's position is blown to smithereens there. Yeah. Uh, Anecdotal says best thing I've heard someone say is a feeling of a noose being tightened from all directions. Exactly. And this is the feeling I'm getting. Right, look at this play on all sides of the board. King me to chase the rook away. Okay, I oblige. I oblige. We have to move. The last thing we want to do is take the bishop unless we're absolutely providing. So this was the idea. It was to chase the rook away and now to play a four. Just exquisite technique. Is White actually winning with correctly? Is white winning. Look at the position. He's up three ponds. Okay, king G six, let's try we are trying to build a blockade on this square, and I think at this point, I think F, uh, four was maybe a mistake. And see, this is the exact point I'm trying to make here. There is a chance that it's just that he prepped really well and he's trying his best and he's actually playing super well. So we just have to complete the game and take it in stride before we make any conclusions. Now, king G six is a really strong move, by the way, I think, from our perspective, because we're actually going to plant the king on F five, and it's not going to be that easy for White to dislodge that king. We're going to go king F five. Okay, white is down to six minutes. We're actually making some progress. I think if we can get White down to like, two minutes, he might maybe start panicking. I don't know. We'll see. But look at what I'm trying to do. I'm putting my king on F five. The reason this was necessary is because if we didn't do that, white would have just pushed F Five and then pushed E six. And clearly that is game over. So if White can get our king off of F Five, then the game ends. If White can push F five. Virtually in any version, it's over. So we're just going to try to keep this king here for dear life. There's also the past Cpawn, but that pawn isn't really going anywhere at the moment. So amazingly okay, king B three. King b three. Okay, well, I don't see exactly what this does. Yeah, we can play G five here and try to disrupt I don't know about G five. I mean, a lot of these moves are basically equivalent. Um, well, rook F seven repeats moves that leads to a draw. White obviously does not want to draw. Um, okay, I guess we can double on the C file to maybe prevent the move. C four. Just again, trying to make this as difficult as possible for our opponent to milk a lot of clock. He's down at five minutes. So it's starting to get just a little bit interesting here. But it's just 15 plus ten is so much time that you can basically afford to think as long as you want on every move. Uh, if somebody put a knife to my throat right now, I would say that he probably hasn't used the engine in 100% of moves, but has likely done it in, like, a frequent, uh, has done it frequently this game. But we'll see. Again, no need to speculate when we have the engine. Let's continue defending gracefully. And already I think rook F seven check is a sign that our opponent might be struggling just a bit. We've taken another minute off his clock, by the way, and rook B six check is a threat that forces the king onto the corner file. So wait a second. Wait a second. This actually wait a minute. That M definitely must be a mistake by him. Um, wait, this has gotten interesting. All of a sudden, we can push his king to the side and it's almost made, um, pause. Champ. So do you guys see what I'm saying? You can go rook B six or even rook B eight. It's already almost a draw. Wait, let me calculate. Let me calculate for a second. There's got to be something already. At this point. It's still lost. I'm afraid it's still losing, but not by much. It's definitely still lost because the king runs to a five. Okay, so here's my idea. All right, well, um, let's start with the check. Let's start with the check. Yeah, if I can pull out a draw in this game, I'll be the happiest person in the world. So here's what I'm calculating, folks. I assume our opponent will go king A four. It would be wild to play king A three in this position, although anything is possible. But king A three allows an additional check on C three. I don't know. Any person in the universe would play king A three here. Um, king A four is logical. Then what I was calculating is rook to C four check, which I know all of you see king A Five. Rook c four. King a five. Rook b five. King takes a six. Rook a four. Checkmate. Except it's not checkmate because the rook um, on B five has lost its support. So there's no way to ladder checkmate. I don't see anything. We can try to move rook B five now to cut the king off from the fifth rank. But that's slow, right? Rook B five is slow and white. We've given white a tempo that he can use to, uh, for example, play rook to E four. So I have an interesting idea. Well, I don't want to play rook takes E six because that relinquishes the net that we have woven over White's King. I'm going to make a move that you might find confusing. I'm going to go knight h five to f six. But the idea is very straightforward. We're attacking. All of a sudden White's King is under attack. This has gotten exciting. And when you're attacking, the first rule of attack is that you want to bring pieces into the attack, into the game. And that's what we're doing. We're trying to bring the knight desperately, quickly, as quickly as possible into the attack via D five. Now what is it doing on D five, you may ask? Well, it's it would be protecting it would be protecting the rook. Okay. I don't get this move. We can just take it, I think, can't we? What happens if I take wait, let's think. I think we have to take because if we don't, he just goes. Rooks e seven takes e seven. Oh, and we're pinned. Okay, um, now we're going to try. Let's see what he wants. Yeah, you guys are right. I didn't see seven from a distance. We can try rick b five. Maybe he promotes shark b five. Actually, this is a super sexy move. Rook B five is a super sex no. Rookie six loses on the spot. Rookie six, he takes it and goes. Rookie eight or goes rook capsule. We don't want to leave. A lot of flares would promote here. A lot of people would promote in this position, but obviously this guy is not a lot of people. No. Rookie five doesn't work. Rookie five, I take it that actually doesn't work. No. I have managed to create mega complications in this position, but unfortunately the time control is so vast that he still has three minutes left. Whoa. Bishop e one. Okay, stopping the check on C three. Cold blooded. Cold blooded. That is a dank ass move right there. We got to go back to e eight with our rook. That is a standard 1300 level move. Three to e one. We've, uh, gotten him down two minutes, 40 seconds. The game is still going. Yeah. Bishop e one is a very standard move for his level as is. Yeah. Now c four. Okay. Rook c five. It is still in it. Still in it. Give me at least, uh, the problem is he starts playing. He actually is playing quite fast. And I guess he's just going to take now. But, um, we'll see. He whipped me. This doesn't look like the best move here. I check and go. King g six. No. 01:00 A.m.. I missing king g six. Still in it. This does not look like the best move, what he just did there. Okay, rookie fate, man. I'm impressed that he's actually managed to play fast and I guess c five. Wow. Wait, let's try to defend from behind with rookie two. There's still a chance, I mean, there's a chance that he plays a move quickly and blunders. There's definitely still a shot in this game. A four. All right. King b six. And it's winning. Wait, it's not over yet. It's not over yet. Yeah, fell for it. Not uh, only is it not over yet, I might not even be winning. So let's, uh, temper our celebrations. Let's temper our celebrations. Yeah, I think it's winning. I think it's winning. But listen, this pawn can hardly be stopped. So what do we do here? What is black's best move in this position? Let's go back to speedrun mode. We've allowed ourselves a little too much fun. 96. Yeah. 96. C seven. Knight takes c seven. Uh, I figured out the win. I figured out the win. And it is knight takes c seven. And now I think we have a genius move. No, we're winning. And the genius move is a five. Very nice. You guys got it? So there's two scenarios here. Scenario one is where we take on G two and white takes on a six. Um, the problem in that scenario is that white is going to promote the a pawn. We're going to have to give the rook up for the Apon. So we need to win the Apon at all cost. How do we win the a pawn? Well, we need to fix it on a light square. So we play a five here and then we go rook to C four. So watch this one. King up to B six. Rook down to C four. And the king cannot go up to B five because that blunders the bishop on C seven and we win. Unbelievable. Now, again, there's a lot to talk about here. A lot to talk about. I want to repeat that I am not throwing out any accusations. Um, our opponent's play was highly suspicious. We can all agree on that. No matter where you stand on the whole cheating question, we can agree that the play was odd. It's rare for me to be outplayed by 1300. Not impossible. Everything in chess is possible, but it's rare. So we need to check the game carefully with an engine. There is also a chance that our opponent was stream sniping because a lot of the time I said a move, it corresponded with it being played. Um, let's push our pawn, maybe to a four. I think we should actually start with King G five. So we need to operate purely based on what the engine reveals. Yeah, that was a crazy game. And I have a feeling that our opponent may have been sniping because this was a crazy coincidence. I literally said King B six as a last ditch effort in case our opponent is listening to the stream. Um, let's go king H four. This is the easiest. We just take around and win the pawns bishop. Oh, I blundered. Wait, actually, m I didn't blunder. Just I didn't blunder. But actually I missed this move. This is another nice move. So we go. Okay, actually, wait. This is an instructive moment. What we need to do is we need to eliminate both of these pawns while keeping at least one of our pawns alive. So the way we do that is we play G Five. We play G five and then we don't play King takes H three here. No, because then we give up the G Five pawn. We could end up losing the Apon and that's a draw. So what's the move here? It's not a four. Forget the apon. We don't need the apon. That pond can go take a walk. Yeah. So what we just need to do rook A three, RC H two. We win the HP on with a rook so that the King can maintain contact with the GPA. Then we take G four and White's King is going to be way too far away to stop the GPA. That's it. The game is over. Of course, rook H Two was also similarly winning. You don't even need the A pawn. This would be completely winning without the A pawn. That's it. And it will be completely winning without the Apon. Yeah. Table base draw. Yeah. We just move the gang and promote bang. Making sure that we're not blundering the pond. Right. It took me a second there. Just push, push, push, push, push, push. And rook. H one g one queen. And there is a way to do this so that you intercept the bishop. But it doesn't matter. It's just going to make a queen. What a game. What a game. Uh, this is going to be like my most viewed speedrun video file, which is kind of sad in a way, but I kind of get it. Thank you, Jolia, for the five subs. So we're going to start in this case by running the game through the engine briefly. And this is not part of our analysis. We are also going to analyze this game. But we are going to begin with just a sort of overview of our opponent's play. Now, notice the accuracy might be completely messed up because of the huge blunder. So I wouldn't put too much stock here in the accuracy. That's sort of the caveat. I would not put too much stock in the accuracy. But nonetheless, we will start by checking. And if we want to do this really properly, we would do this on the stockfish engine, on ChessBase, which is what we're going to do. So I'm going to check the accuracy and then we're actually going to do this properly. Plugging in the game into Chess base, um, where I have a much stronger engine and an engine that will go up to a certain depth. So we're going to do it in a moment. Let's, let, uh, the machine run. So as this loads, this is the speed run. The emphasis is on instructive value. So to those who are watching this and are feeling a little underwhelmed at my lack of explanations, I do apologize for that. But this is, uh, kind of hopefully an extenuating circumstance. I will explain a lot of stuff in short order, but this is still part of your overall chess improvement, right. Knowing how to deal with these types of players, knowing the signs, how to act in these cases is, I think, very important. Um, okay, so 82.5, and again, you can see that there was one blunder and that blunder was king B, 60 mistakes. And it also says, I had zero mistakes, I have higher accuracy. This makes no sense. Uh, you can just a priori. This makes no sense. You know that because white was winning completely the entire game. So the accuracy and it's skewed because of the blunder. White blunder to full roak. So what we do now is we plug the game into Chess base, we turn on stock fish and we quickly run through it, just kind of checking to see how many top moves there were. This is not a scientific method of investigation. I am not claiming that it is, but we're trying to give ourselves a better sense. Okay. All right, this should do. So let's examine now, first of all, we need to analyze this opening just independently of everything. And I have a feeling yeah, as far as I remember. So here you can see on the, uh, right hand side, well, you're not actually seeing it, but stockfish at depth 46 says e six is equalizing. So this is already a mistake. Amazing. D six apparently is a mistake. And it is because of this line. Queen D four, e five, and now queen D four. Yeah. So this is apparently well known. Yeah. 43 games in the database. Wow. So this is a known line. You see, we have to give our opponent the benefit of the doubt. H six, bishop e three, still games in the database. Night f six, still games in the database. And we can see Jocelyn played this, josbum had this in a title Tuesday game. Queen D seven, castles and Jospen played exactly like I did. We're following the game. Incredible. We're, um, following it. Jocelyn's title Tuesday game. You can actually see it a little bit, uh, in the top when they say a five one game. That's the Jospin title. Tuesday game. And Jos actually won, which is crazy. But that's a moot point. So it's already plus four. Now we check. So d five. Yeah. So this next move is incredibly suspicious. Queen a five, I don't know. Queen b three is more human to me. So queen a five is a top move. Knight takes e five is basically a top move. Now it's a top move. Should be seven. Queen a four, check. So this move was not fantastic, but not bad. So this does not spoil anything. B five, night b 597 and 93. But these are all forced moves. These are all forced moves. M rook d four is top. Bishop d three was the second move. Rook d one is top. Knight c three is the second move. D five is slight inaccuracy. Slight inaccuracy. But still it's plus six. So you cannot make any conclusions on the basis no. Rook d seven is the second move. Now rook f seven is the second move. Okay? But rook d two is obvious. Rookie two is the first move. King b two maintains the advantage. Yeah. King b two is the second move. Now F, uh, four, maybe not the most accurate, but still rook b seven is good. So king b three is a little bit inaccurate. Ding. V three is a little bit inaccurate. And actually, g five was a move here rook f seven. Okay. So this is already black is going, white is going a little bit of straight, but f five is okay. Uh, if I'm honest with you, this was maybe the most suspicious moment. Like, f five and e seven is incredible. And bishop e 1 second move is bishop e one. Yeah. Bishop, uh, e one is an amazing move. I mean, uh, it makes sense. And c four is good. Bishop g three is also good move. Yeah. Rook fate is not perfect, but this is still completely winning. Oh, c five is good. A four is good. And it's completely winning after rook c eight. Yeah. Um, so what conclusions can we draw from this brief run, uh, through? Well, first of all, knowing that line, as you know, 1300 is exceedingly rare. But we again, it's not impossible. Maybe he looked this up. Maybe this is his his jam, right? His line. It could be another smurf. So there's an option that this is a smurf and his real strength. Uh, based on this game, I would estimate at 24 2500ft A, but at 2400, would never, ever, ever in a 15 minutes game blunder king b six. So that's what doesn't add up. And that's what tells me maybe he was stream sniping because I deliberately said king b six. I did this twice. The first time, I think he didn't buy it. The first time was when in this position, I said, knight takes d five is winning. It was a, uh, troll. Obviously, the second time it actually did work. So he's up to something, I'm pretty sure of that. But my standard for these videos is like, if he's watching this video, I'm hoping that he would find my perspective to be reasonable. Like, we looked over the game. This was an incredibly well played game. It's virtually unprecedented for 1300 to be able to play a game like this. Um, so there's never any, like do I have any cold, hard proof? No. Um, but this is what I can say. Okay. But nonetheless, there's no direct accusations. We just looked over the game, I expressed my suspicions and that's, that chess.com always investigates fairly and I'm going to let, uh, them do that. Let's analyze the game. So we're actually going to analyze it in chess space. I actually like this layout. The reason we're going to do that is because this was an engine heavy game and it's sensible for us to use stockbridge. We're going to deviate from our golden rule, which is to never use the engine explicitly in analysis. But this game was so technical, there was so much going on that I think it just makes sense to focus on the opening phase and, um, make sure that we know how to play against Bishop B Five. Remember that that is the goal of this feeder and is to develop a fullopening repertoire. So that's what we're going to focus on. Um, so let's rewind back to the start. So night c three. Now, it's important to realize what I said when this game was starting, which is that if you are an accelerated Dragon player and you want to go Night C Six. If you're a Nidorf player, you want to go D Six. Right? Because if White goes Night F Three and doubles back to the open system, you want to be able to play a Nidorf. Now, conversely, accelerated Dragon works the same exact way, right? Night. C six. If White now goes Night F Three, just go G Six and you play and accelerated and Anticillin is anything that's not the open Sicilian. Now if you're a Nitorf flare and you suddenly face this line, there's no way to get back into the Nidorf. Now you can play the move E Five here to keep the nonopen Sicilian flavor. But the latest verdict on this line, which is a very popular line, I don't like this for Black. I feel like this is a very, very hard line to play, although it's highly theoretical and it's, and it, and it's been played by a ton of GMs. So hopefully that makes sense. If you are a a con Sicilian player, then of course you should play E Six, which is a great move, by the way. E Six against the closed Sicilian is, I think, maybe even the best line. But you have to be ready to face Knight F Three, and then you're basically move ordered either into a con or a Taimanov. So based on what you play, you should play that appropriate move here. We played knight T six, and we're facing bishop B five. So ni T four is the topical move. And after nine F three, let's see what the engine can, um, bring to the table here. So as far as I remember, I think the best line is actually to play A six here. That's what the engine seems to be giving thus far, a six. If bishop C four, then we can actually play B five. And we're not afraid of bishop D five. We just go? Rook BA. So you have to be ready in this line to play creatively and to delay your development by a little while. Okay, why is this good for black? Because we're going to play E six with tempo on the next move. And the bishop is just going to be stupid on this diagonal. And if white takes and drops the knight back. And look at this move. Knight F six, knight takes D four, iron. And this is simple. We take on D five, and then we go bishop B seven, fianceroing, and winning the pawn back with interest. So if white goes D six, then we just go E six and we pick up the pawn like this. Obviously, we don't take that looks terrible. And if queen F three, we go E six, using tactics to win the pond back. If queen H five, then we go rook C eight. This is really this is really pretty. And rook C five, we win the pawn back like this. Everything looks easy when you're analyzing of the engine. So you have to toe the line a little bit in this line. But nobody's going to go bishop C four. People go bishop D three here. That is the main move. This I remember. And now e six. So you set up essentially a con set up. But because this is not an open facility, you shouldn't be afraid of playing this. If white takes and goes 92, this is a very important now I'm starting to remember this analysis. In this position, you do not go bishop C five because then the bishop is not positioned very well. You go d five. You go d five. And how does this work? Well, what happens if white plays night, takes D four, black plays De and wins one of the minor pieces. You see that, right? So the human move here, I think, is E five. But now this pawn is undefended. This pawn is undefended. Whoop. Queen G five fork. And again, we're getting away with making this many moves with non minor pieces because look at how passively white's developed. The bishop on C one is blocked in. We're not afraid. Our fund, our structures sound here f ah four. White can try, but we just drop our queen back. And if white pushes, we just go E five. And this is even better for black. Does this make sense? I hope this is making sense. Like, I, um, have all these moves, and so far, all of these moves, to me, are, like, perfectly sensible. It's just a lot of concrete stuff you have to remember here. And if ed, then Queen takes d five, let's say White Castles. And at this point, I think it makes sense to start developing the engine likes bishop D seven, bishop C six. I like the move knight f six here. I think this is simple. And black is a perfectly good position here. So this is how you analyze with an engine. You don't just press the space bar, which gives you the next engine move. You actually try to understand why each move is played. So, for example, even here, why bishop D seven and not knight f six. Why is the engine prefer this move? Right? Well, what you do is you say, after night f six, what is the move? Well, the move is C three. Then you ask yourself, well, why is the same move not good after the engine's recommendation? And you say, ah, uh, well, black has this move, bishop C six. Okay, well, why is bishop c six so strong? Well, it threatens checkmate. And why is it bad for white to play f three? Now knight f six, and the idea starts to crystallize. The idea starts to crystallize. After knight takes D four, you have bishop to C five. And here you see the damage that white has done himself by playing F three, and we're able to win the pawn back with interest. Compare that long line with knight F six and now C three. We don't have the equivalent idea. If we play bishop D seven here in bishop C five, we can still do that, but there is no pin anymore. And actually, the knights still can't move, but it's just not quite as effective. Okay, so bishop D seven is actually the most accurate move here. Fascinating. Okay, so that was an exploration of knight 64. The main move, as far as I remember, for White, is just a castle. And here, I really like how the computer handles this. It's suggesting to just drop the night back to C six and say, hey, your bishop on D three looks really stupid. I don't want to have anything to do with this. Knight C six is what's been played against me when I played this line with White. And after bishop E two, we can go back to D four. I mean, this is a repetition that could happen, um, because if white takes here, the knight is nowhere good to go. It doesn't have e two anymore. And remember that in this position, uh, there is this very typical maneuver where you go 97 and then 96 in order to protect this pawn. And this pawn is a strength, right? It's lording over the whole position. So there is the possibility of repeating moves. But there is also the possibility, um, in this position, let's see if there are alternatives to 94. Let's say you don't want to repeat moves. Wow. Look at the second recommendation, G five. I actually kind of like this move. And the idea should be obvious. You're basically going for the attack. You're going for the day, you're preventing. D is a prophylactic move. That's all it is. That's all it is. And it's an idea that exists across a lot of different lines. It's been very popular to play G Five in these types of positions. Let me give you an example. There is a line in the Bishop B five. Czech, Sicilian, the Moscow variation where my headphones turned off. Just a second. So let me remember it's this no, it's A six. Bishop d three. And is it G five here? Let me check. It's not g. Five here. Goddamn. There's a line or black goes G five here. It's not here. I'm trying to remember. I swear. There is a line where black goes G five. And it's very similar to this. So this how does it go here? Here? No, it's c three. Oh, I remembered. It's c four. Yes. And now 55 games that G five is the most popular move in this position. There we go. And famously, uh, Alex, uh, Sasha Grishuk was one of the first people to play this. In 2015, Vessel and de Paulov played this for the first time ever against Magnus, and won in the Singfield Cup to Paulo beat Carlson with black in this line. Worth checking out. If you're interested, just search up that game. Um, in any case, I'm, um, digressing. Now, the engine is no longer a fan of this, but that's not the point, as you can understand. Imagine facing this for the first time ever. And in 2015, maybe engines were approving. It, uh, the point of G five here is a little bit different. You're trying to go G four, but you're also trying to get White to release the E five square. And, of course, you're trying to open the G file for attack so you can check out this game. But the bottom line is that G five is it sounds crazy, but it's a common idea in many different types of openings. Of course, in the French, this is also ridiculously common in many cases. In the Taraj French, you get a situation where basically after nine GF three, there is even the move G five in this position. This exists. And the idea is to push G four. Again, a different reason. You're trying to weaken White's control over D four. But, uh, remember that if you see a move that sounds that looks crazy, chances are it's actually standard fare in a lot of different positions. Also, you're sort of preparing to fianceto the bishop. So it's like an extended fianceto. Now, the engine gives an edge for White after. This. First of all, 92 is not necessarily a human move. I would be more inclined to play 91 to keep the darkskirt Bishop open. But apparently, after H five already, even objectively, black is better because white is so cramped. So apparently 92 is the top engine movement. Now we go h five. I would like to have this with black. This looks fun. Nobody's going to play f three here. That's a weird McQueenie one. What are these moves? I feel like the human move here is like night C four. And immediately white is much worse. I guess night C Four gets chased away, maybe night B Three to open the Bishop. Queen c seven. Typical move in the Sicilian Con, getting the queen in a nice square. And then Bishop d six to aim at the h. Two pond. So let's say Bishop B Three. Bishop d six. It's just a very tactical position, a super risky light, but something worth playing if you're facing a lower rated opponent, because this is how quickly it can get bad. G three, H Four, and already black is winning because you have this sack on G three. It's not really a sack. And black is a massive attack. F. Uh, g queen g. Three is checkmate. Okay, so we just discovered is this a novelty? Let's check. Let's check if this is a novelty. It is not. It's been played, and it's been played by GM's. Sarik played this in 2003. Somebody played it, and it's Olivia Weisser, uh, played. And guess what? I was right. 90, uh, two, was played three times, but by correspondence players, 91 is what the humans played. So giovanovich grandmaster. Um okay. F three was played by Baklan 2600. Visor responded with Bishop D Six, the game from 2003. And in this position, apparently, black is supposed to drop the bishop back and pave the way for D Five. But already black is better. In the other human game, bishop E three was played by a GM. By a GM. And after D Five, apparently white, black is already much better. So what this tells you is that the human value of this line is incredibly high. Most humans, all of the humans who have had this have gotten terrible positions with white. Bishop G seven. Attacking. D four. And if DC, then D Four forks the bishop of the night. So, we have discovered already a very interesting line. And so the way to play this line, in conclusion, is to start with A six. We examine Bishop C Four. Bishop d three is the main line. Now we go e six. We don't fear knight D Four, because here we have this D five idea with queen G Five against E five. And if castles, we drop the knight back to C six. Uh, bishop E two, we can repeat moves against the higher rated opponent, or we can play G Five with the idea of G four and H five. There's also the move B Three here that I've played with White, but B Three, as far as I remember, you can just go G Six and counteract White's Bishop with your own bishop. Typical developing. Now night a four. I've had this against Min, actually, where we trade bishops like this. And I'm pretty sure Minn correctly plays d six. Rookie One and E Five just pushed upon through, grabbed the center, and Black is a great position here. Knight f Six Castle The D Five score is weak, but it cannot really be occupied by a piece. So wild complications. But Black is totally comfortable here. So Knight takes B Five by me, was actually an inaccuracy. You can see stockfish kind of goes up. It still says it's equal, but I already felt very risky. Apparently, the correct move here no, sorry, is E Six, and apparently this version is playable after B five. Wow. But this looks scary, doesn't it? I mean, this looks even scarier than the game continuation. Bishop g five with tempo. Uh, now, it was 97 blocking the bishop. Yeah, this is computer play. So at a grandmaster level, what you often do and the misconception is that GM's just plug positions into the engine, and that's how you make a file. No, see, it says equal. But I would never, ever recommend for anybody to go for this position with Black in a game. How do I know that? Just intuitive feel. It looks horrible. It just looks at 95. There might be some sacrifices on D Five, even though it gives zeroes. I mean, if you actually just look at the line, f Six is the only move nobody would ever play that because if you play Bishop B Seven, then already it's plus minus. So you have to decide when you're analyzing with an engine also using your field, are you actually comfortable playing the position? At the end of the day, you have to be the one being comfortable with the position. And if for whatever reason, you don't feel comfortable, you feel like you won't be able to handle the resulting middle game in a game, then you shouldn't play the line. You should search until you find stuff that you actually feel comfortable with. And that's what we did here. So after D 64 and Queen D Four, apparently Black is already clearly worse, and it's due to this crazy move queen B Four, um, Pakra asks, as a low rated player, why does playing against Long Castle like this feel scared? Well, you see, it's less that you're playing against Long Castle and more that you're behind massively in development. White has already castled and gotten all of his minor pieces out, and you've gotten no minor pieces out. Black can't move here. Right? You can't move this bishop because you dropped G Seven. And if you have to make a super weakening move like F Six in order to survive, well, that's a bad sign. That's a sign that this position is super hard to handle. But isn't it equal? It is, but only with insanely precise engine moves that I wouldn't be comfortable forcing myself to find. I hope this makes sense. I'm trying to explain and give you like a metastrategy for analyzing with an engine since we're already on this kind of general topic. Um, so anyways, d. So why is queen B four such a strong move? Well, it's because of the ensuing idea of putting the bishop on B six. This idea is insanely strong. If white goes anywhere except before then black is fine. You can see the engine gives even slight edge for black. And h six is what I was planning to play. And then, uh, knight F six. Now, this is what I call the Smith's love idea. If you play night f six immediately, this is inaccurate because if bishop G five takes F six and then Nt five, this idea of removing a defender and then occupying the square with the knight is most famously illustrated in a game played in the 40s by Vastly SMITHLove, the Soviet world champion. Now, um, this is a very famous, um, game that's been shown way too many times. It's not the only illustration of this topic, and I've shown this before in the speed run. But hey, you got to look at stuff that you already know. That's part of what learning is all about. So, Smith's Love had this position just a moment. There we go. Stockfish, uh, is off, which is why you have this weird panel. What does Smithlov play in this position? What's going on? Well, you should see the similarity. There is a weak square on D five, but that square is defended by black's knight. So, Smithlov goes bishop G five very famously. Then he eliminates the night and then he positions his own knight on D five. Um, and this actually uses some tactics to make it work. If queen takes C two, you might notice that there is a forkable square on C seven, right? So this is a trick question. What is white's best move? There is a mupois, the most popular wrong answer. And the mupoa is very instructive. And then there's the correct move. Let's see who can avoid the trick. So, most of you are like rooksty one. It's rooksty one. But see, uh, I call this queen disease. When you don't realize that you've given up 1000 pieces for your queen, it's the same exact cons of your when you're winning an exchange. Right? You have to realize that an exchange is not that much material. So what you're doing is you're giving away a, uh, crap tone of ponds here on the queen site. And what's their material count at the end? Well, Black has three pawns for the exchange. This is not impressive. But what you have to notice is that black's queen basically has to keep in contact with the C seven squared must stay on the C file. So what move can we start with to prevent queen takes B two from being a thing? It's rook f two. Excellent. Now, notice that bishop H four, there's always the move G three. I know some of you might be thinking, oh, what about that move? No, the queen has to move on the C file. Now, again, we use the same principle. Rook C one, again, is premature because if queen takes A two so again, we play B three. We just keep chasing the queen down the C file. And only when we're ready do we play rook C one and 90 C seven. Okay? So hopefully that made sense. So this is the Smith love idea. Um, this idea has been applied ad nauseam in a gazillion different types of situations. I've had it played against me many times. An, uh, example I have shown before on stream, um, is this game against Kudrin. Kudrin being a typical Russian GM that I faced, uh, quite a few times when I was, like, 22, 2300. So Kudrin had, um, this position against me. I was black. Again, same opening Nidorf, right? And this structure very often occurs in the night or so it's not a coincidence that you actually get this often. And of course, he goes bishop to G five. Same drill, eliminating the night I took on a two. So he just takes and goes back, doesn't give a damn. And eventually, okay, here he makes an amazing move. I love this next move he plays. This is so freaking instructive. So what move do you want to play but can't and why can't you play it? Logical thinking is a great exercise in logical thinking and, like, actually calculating. So you want to play 95, right? And by the way, a rook on D five is still a sexy P. This is a nice output, but you you don't want to give up C two because the whole queen type collapses. So you might say, okay, well, let's defend the C two pawn. And I think most of you are probably, let's go queen D two. The problem with queen D two is the black goes rook AC eight. And again, you're in trouble because you have to move. The night goes c two So Kujrin plays a classic grandmaster move who can find it, and there's two moves that do the same thing, but he makes the more elegant move. So most of you, if I read you guys right, are thinking rook A, C one. But he goes rook A two. And, well, what the heck is the difference? Well, rook A C one is inferior for a variety of reasons. The rook on C one is totally tied down to the pawn. The rook on A two is preparing in for the event that white plays well. B five is played. Ah, a five. And the rook on a two now defends the a five pawn and the c two pawn. And later on, further down the line, when white moves the night away, maybe he can push the pawn out of c two and then double on the default. So the rook on a two is just better placed. And finally he achieves his aim. He gets his rook to d five, and he proceeds to outplay me. Now watch what he does. Now, I mentioned that the rook on d five was a good piece, but what piece do you really want to go to d five. Well, it's the night. And watch what he does. Bang, he goes queen e four. Bang, c three. And look at this. His rook on a two is actually doing something. Now it's defending f two. That was a very prophetic move. You see many moves later, it's actually come in handy, the fact that he's put the rock on a two. This is the elegance of positional play. You do stuff for the future. Now you don't know if the future is ever going to turn into reality, but one time out of three it does. And now 93 and 95, and he has fully completed positional domination, and he proceeded to win the game. But all of this stemmed from the Smith's love idea, bishop g five. Okay, so maybe I belabored this, but now you'll never forget it. Hopefully now you'll fully understand this concept of eliminating a piece to access the square. Um, okay. So back we go to the game, and we're going to turn stockfish on again, just because we've been analyzing on the engine, and that's fine with me. So instead, that's why we want to go h six here. So that after castle's nine f six, why can still put the night on the but here the worst piece to occupy an outpost with is the queen. Okay, um, because why? Well, because the queen is ridiculously vulnerable, and we can chase the queen away first by putting our queen on c seven. Not this, because it blunders b seven. But first Queen C. Seven. While you're at it, you can hit the pawn. And then bishop b six and bishop b seven are the great position. So this would have been fine. Queen b four is incredibly strong. Now, the engine gives us some ways that we could survive this. I'm not particularly interested because we've already extracted the lessons from the opening. Apparently, h six makes things even worse. And after night f six, it's officially a losing position. It's already plus two. Apparently the only move here was in fact, to play queen e seven castles and somehow to just, um, pretend that nothing's the matter. But this position sucks. Now, of course, what I had missed from a distance, I thought that I would go here and notice that if white doesn't have night takes e five, black is fine, but white has this incredibly annoying move. 95 and this is crushing because the queen is trapped. The queen is literally trapped. You have to take and then you get checkmated. Um, well, the Jospin game is a title Tuesday game, so it's not that interesting. Um, and the crazy thing is that if you develop and you say, I have an idea. Well, now knight takes C five is not possible because after de, we're attacking the queen simultaneous, we're going to win a piece. Well, you have to keep calculating. It is possible because after rook D seven before, there is the check on D eight anyway, and White wins H eight and white's up in exchange and winning the game. So all of these tactical lines work perfectly in White's favor. We had to move our queen again. And bishop C seven is a sexy move, just attacking from behind. And Black's position simply collapses. Maybe king D seven could have been tried. But here there are more tactics with rook takes D six and rook D one picking up the queen with a devastating attack. And, um, there's just nothing that can be done here. The position collapses and nothing's developed. And White is just taking everything. And Check mating me down the D file and the rest, of course, we've, uh, analyzed. We're not going to look at the endgame in this video. We've already gone quite a while. Uh, of course, White is totally winning. I could talk about more accurate, less accurate moves, but at the end of the day, our opponent played very well up until Blundering. Uh, that fork. So I think this is we're going to pause guys, I'm not sure how long this video is going to last, but quite an eventful speedrun game. Wasn't, uh, expecting something this crazy. But again, our focus in the speedrun is on opening. So I hope that you enjoyed the discussion of NC six, bishop B five, and now you know how to play against it. Uh, now you know how to play against knight F three. There is also bishop C four, which is the old main line. And I'm quite sure that we're going to face this line at least one more time. So we're going to get a chance to discuss this theory later. But hope you enjoyed the game. This is a slightly different method of analysis. We had the engine on and I know some people are going to be like having the engine on, but hopefully you can appreciate that we were focusing on openings here and obviously we were checking our opponent's place. So hope you can forgive this deviation from the norm. Um, and on that note, folks, it's almost 5 hours. I'm going to call it a night. I will see you all tomorrow. And I am going to raid. Who am I going to raid? I'm going to raid. Fiona. Fiona covering the European rapid championship. Thank you all for hanging out. Thanks for the support. Once again, I have a YouTube channel. If you subscribe, you help me tremendously. Thank you, everybody, and goodbye.