Hello and welcome back. I'm Joseph Hoffman. Today we are going to learn a song about one Especially if it's dark chocolate. For this song I like to use my digital piano the great thing about digital pianos is that You can also change the tone from piano to something cool like electric guitar. So I'm going to play for you the song &quot;Chocolate&quot; Yum yum yum yum yum! Chocolate I have some. Yum yum yum yum yum! Chocolate I have some. By the way I'm playing on a Casio Privia which It has 88 weighted keys and weighted keys so you can develop proper finger strength. If you're not already practicing on a keyboard I highly recommend it. You can find a link to this piano or more Okay let's figure out how the notes of this I'll sing part of the melody, and you tell going down, or repeating. Here it goes. What did you hear? If you said the notes are going up, you're There are five notes stepping up. Yum yum yum yum yum! Now here's the next part of the song. Tell What did you hear now? If you said stepping down, you're correct. The notes are five notes stepping down. Chocolate I have some. Now let's put those two parts together and in the direction the notes are moving? Ready go. Yum yum yum yum yum! Chocolate I Good. Now let's learn the solfege for these The lowest note will be DO. And then that steps up to RE. Then MI, FA, SO. Can you try that with me? let's try those and try the hand signs with me. Sing and move your hands. Go. DO RE MI FA SO. Now we're going to step down. SO FA MI RE Okay a little faster now. Go. DO RE MI FA SO. SO FA MI RE DO. Good job. Now let's practice moving our fingers for If you can hold up your right hand like me. We're going to do stepping up starting with Yum yum yum yum yum! Now your turn. Can you do that? Go. Good now let's try singing the solfege. We're going to do the same pattern again. DO RE MI FA SO. Now your turn. Go. Good now it's my turn. We're going to step SO FA MI RE DO. Your turn. Good. Now let's try the whole song together which means the words of the song. So we're sing yum yum yum yum yum! Chocolate Ready try it with me. Go. Yum yum yum yum yum! Chocolate I have some. Pretty easy right? Good now let's try it with Okay hold up your left hand like me. Remember that in the left hand it's our pinky Let's try it once taking turns. My turn first. DO RE MI FA SO. Your turn. Good now my turn. SO FA MI RE DO. Your turn. Good now let's try it together singing the Ready go. Yum yum yum yum yum! Chocolate I Good. Now we're ready to try it on the piano. Okay let's place our right hand on C D E F We're going to play &quot;Chocolate&quot;. I'll take It will go DO RE MI FA SO. Your turn. Good now my turn starting on SO. SO FA MI Your turn. Good now put those both together and it will Yum yum yum yum yum! Chocolate I have some. Your turn. Let's review real quick what your fingers Remember they should be comfortably curved which pretty much just points out straight As you play keep your fingers close to the Each finger should rest on the keys as you And allow your wrist to bounce a little bit to help you stay relaxed. Now press pause and try it a few more times until you can get your fingers to look like Press play when you're ready to try it in Okay now let's place your left hand on C D So now your pinky will be on C, and then you'll This time let's try saying the letter names I'll take a turn first. C D E F G. Your turn. Good now it's my turn again. I'm going to G F E D C. Now your turn. Remember that with the left hand just like we want the fingers to rest on the keys in Press pause and practice playing &quot;Chocolate&quot; then press play again when you're ready to Now for fun here's a few other things you You can try substituting in your own favorite like other than chocolate I also love curry. So we could say yum yum yum yum yum! Curry Or if you like pizza you could say pizza I Or apples I have some. Think of your own favorite foods and try putting Another challenge I'd like to show you is Remember your right hand is going to start while your left hand starts on its pinky finger Yum yum yum yum yum! Chocolate I have some. That's a really super challenge. If it doesn't happen for a few days that's Just keep trying it until you get it. Great job today learning &quot;Chocolate&quot;. As we learn new songs like this, I want you to always go back and review your So every day play &quot;Chocolate&quot;, &quot;Frog in the Also do your finger power everyday that we've Like your hand over hand pentascales, the and the stepping up and down the black keys. The more you practice the better you're going Especially if you're practicing with good Have lots of fun practicing, and I'm getting So I'll see you next time. Chef, all this singing and talking about chocolate is making me really hungry. Is there anything you have in your bakery that's chocolatey? Why yes, Mr. Hoffman. I've this chocolate, chocolate chocolate-chip cookie. Would you like it? Well, yes, I would. Why, thank you! Well, enjoy! I will! Yum! Wow, Mr. Hoffman, that looks delicious! Can I have some? Um, sure, Scuba, I don't mind sharing. Here you go. Gee, thanks! You're welcome. Mmmm, that looks scrumptious. Mind if I have a bite? Sure, Princess. I don't mind sharing. Here you go. Thank you! We want some too! You were planning on sharing that, right? Of course. Here's a little for you. Thank you. Here's for you, Fireman, For you, Red Bird, For you, Baby, Enjoy guys! Uh, Mr. Hoffman? I see you've been making fast progress on the cookie. Yep. Well, it's a good thing I brought another one for you. Are you serious? Oh, thank you so much! Enjoy. Nice. Hey, Mr. Hoffman? Yes, Scuba? Don't forget the milk. I brought this for you. Thank you, you're too kind. At last!