Past a small lobby through a plain set of double Welcome to one of our chip labs. There's a simple room filled with a couple hundred in lab coats, and a bunch of postage stamp-sized testing. Our goal is to be able to find bugs, manufacturing issues, design issues. We want to find them so that we can fix them and ship our chips into our systems. Apple has enjoyed soaring valuation for years MacBook, iPhone, Apple Watch, AirPods. But under the hood, it's also designing its own Mac transition is a proud moment. When we started scaling our chips to iPad and Building chips for the AirPods that you couldn't Apple first debuted its own semiconductors in As of June this year, all new Mac computers are ending the company's 15-plus years of reliance on I think one of the most, if not the most profound the last 20 years, is how we now do so many of But Apple isn't immune to industry risks. All its most advanced silicon is manufactured by Company. Smartphones are just recovering from a like Microsoft are making big leaps in generative It's doable. On Apple's last year chip, even more the software has got to catch up with that, so tomorrow's AI software on Apple Silicon. CNBC went to the company's California allowed to film inside an Apple chip lab and got about how it broke into the incredibly expensive, off a trend of non-chip companies like Amazon, rushing to do the same. Apple launched the first iPhone in June 2007 with Samsung. In 2008, Johny Srouji came on board Intel. I came to Apple with the purpose of building our It was a very small team at the time, about 40 to and since then we have grown the team immensely. A month after Srouji joined, Apple bought $278 million. They're going to start doing their own chips. That was the immediate takeaway when they bought Just I think knowing the culture of Apple, their control as much of the stack. Indeed, two years later, Apple launched its first iPad and the iPhone four. And we built what we call the unified memory We built an architecture that you start with the and then to the watch and eventually to the Mac. Now, Apple Silicon team has scaled to thousands of like Israel, Germany, Austria, the UK, Japan and in Austin, San Diego and Silicon Valley, where we one. On either side of me, there's about 70 series that are going in the new MacBooks, as 15s. And these machines in particular are testing heat, low temperatures, things like that. Our board holders, we've kind of color-coded them. And what that does is that makes it easier for technicians to just be able to spot, oh, I'm validation board. The primary type of chips Apple is developing here It is the silicon and all of the blocks that go on So there's CPU, there's GPU, there's DSP, there's And in Apple's case there's also an NPU that runs Apple's first SoC was the A-series, which has A17 Pro, announced in September. It's the central processor in iPhones, as well as Its other major SoC is the M series, now powering iPads. First released in 2020, it's now up to the The S series is a smaller system in packagem,or First launched in 2015, H and W are even smaller AirPods. U chips allow communication between chip, the R1, is for Apple's Vision Pro headset, display within 12 milliseconds. We get to design the chips ahead of time, working OS to exactly and precisely build chips that are and only for those products. The H2 inside the second-gen AirPods Pro, for inside the new series 9 Apple Watch The S9 tap. On the iPhone side, the A11 Bionic in 2017 because it had the first Apple Neural Engine, a tasks totally on device. That was when we first started looking at, wow, into things like our camera pipeline? So things in iOS 17 today, like being able to a photo. Now leading marketing for the iPhone, Kaiann She says the latest A17 Pro is another major leap to features like computational photography. You can take seven different shots all from the This is a macro shot, and then you've got the With iPhone 15 Pro Max, you can go all the way up The A17 Pro's new GPU architecture also enables the iPhone 15 Pro. It was actually the biggest redesign in GPU So we have hardware accelerated ray tracing for acceleration, which allows game developers to Now, for the first time, some big games are coming Assassin's Creed Mirage, The Division Resurgence, Apple says the A17 Pro is the first 3 nanometer The reason we use three nanometer is it gives us in a given dimension that is important for the better power efficiency. We're leading. Even though we're not a chip Apple's leap to 3 nanometer continued with the M3 These are the main chips CNBC saw being tested in We've got one of those M3's in this thermal We have a socket and then the chip is in there, is is kind of applying heat or cold directly on the package of the SoC. The M3 line enables new features like 22-hour Pro, boosted graphics performance. It's early days. We have a lot of work to do, but Pretty much all Macs are capable of running five years ago. Now, Apple's hardware chief, John Ternus, has been When I started, the way we tended to make products and we were effectively building the product We had, we've always had an incredible design team were they were constrained by what was available. In a major shift for the semi industry. Apple turned away from using Intel's PC M1 chip inside the MacBook Air and other Macs. It was almost like the laws of physics had Like, all of a sudden we could build a MacBook That incredibly thin and light, has no fan, 18 outperformed the MacBook Pro that we had just MacBook Pro with M3 Max that is 11 times faster MacBook Pro we were making, and we were shipping Intel processors are based on x86 architecture, because a lot of software is developed for it. But Apple bases its processors on rival ARM helping laptop batteries last longer. The M1 was a proving point for ARM-based Qualcomm, AMD and Nvidia now developing ARM-based In September, Apple extended its deal with ARM first custom chip came out. 13 years ago, Apple was the only major non-chip prohibitive semiconductor market. Apple is sort of the trailblazer. They sort of showed that if you do this, you can And certainly more players have gone down that In the last few years. Amazon, Google, Microsoft and Tesla are among the at custom chips. I think what everybody was looking for was, does advantage? Because that's really the question. It's an expensive endeavor. Designing your own chips is incredibly expensive. Is this CapEx sustainable? We have thousands of engineers. But if you look at the portfolio of chips, we do so very efficient. Again, because we focus on the quality of we run our teams. And because we're not really selling chips And that gives us freedom to optimize. And the scalable architecture lets us reuse products. But Apple isn't yet making every piece of silicon Modems, for instance, are one big component Apple And their processors have been remarkably good. Where they've struggled is on the modem side, is Modems are hard. And they've been struggling with it. Apple uses Qualcomm for its modems, but that legal battle over IP. A settlement brought an end to all legal action Intel's 5G modem business for $1 billion in a That hasn't happened yet, and in September, Apple through at least 2026. Qualcomm still makes the best modems in the world, Apple can do as good of a job, I have a hard time that. Talk to me about what's going on in modems and the deal with Qualcomm and why that decision was We have a strong team internally working on that would elevate our products. But I can't really give you much on comment on obvious reasons. But we care about cellular and we have teams I would argue personally that the longer it takes the more likely it is that they will never do it That being said, Apple's got a very good put anything past them. Apple is reportedly working on its own Wi-Fi and multi-billion dollar deal with Broadcom for like Samsung and Micron for memory. Does Apple have aspirations to be in charge of let's say, memory? Our aspiration is the product. We want to build the best products on the planet chips in this case. If there is a technology that we can buy off the delivers to our objective for the product, we'll really, really matters. Regardless of how much of it silicone needs Apple manufacture its chips externally at massive TSMC. It's like anybody else. I mean, they need leading edge semiconductors. There's one place, mostly one place. You get those right now, which is Taiwan. This leaves Apple, like all advanced chip threats of invading Taiwan. I think there is obviously a lot of tension that happened? There isn't another good option. You would hope that Samsung is also competitive But again, we're not. Right now. It's really all at TSMC. That's why Apple has committed to becoming the Arizona. We always want to have a diversified supply. Asia, Europe and the U.S., which is why I think great and other founders are doing the same. There are other foundries, Samsung and Intel and great. But another concern is the shortage of skilled haven't been built for decades. TSMC says its Arizona fab is now delayed to 2025 workers. Some have also asked if a fierce talent slowdown in Apple's release of new chips. There's been questions about why the iPhone line processor in the lower end, and then the newest Some of that also, I think, just might have to do Generations are taking longer because they are ability to pack more and get power efficiency is than ten years ago. But given again, I think this is actually one of because we're not a chip company. So I don't need to worry about where do I sell my In 2019, Apple's chip architect Gerard Williams startup called Nuvia, bringing some Apple Apple sued Williams over IP concerns, then Qualcomm bought Nuvia in 2021, in a move to Apple's. I can't really discuss legal matters, but we truly When certain people leave for certain reasons, That's fine. And again, as I mentioned, we have thousands of Another challenge facing the whole industry is their lowest levels in years. Smartphones have been horrible, right. And part of the issue is like what is They all look like this. It's like some some So the industry is playing with things like I think people right now are now hoping that Thanks to hype around large language models like recent months, primarily on the graphics AMD dominate. But non-chip companies are also getting in on the Google has designed a tensor processing unit for Amazon Web Services has had its own AI chips for now Microsoft has a new chip released in What does Apple have in the works when it comes An A11 Bionic, which we shipped in 2017 and given years ahead. It tells you how long we started. We actually started. We built our machine learning engine. We call it the Apple Neural Engine, and that's We have embedded machine learning accelerators We have our highly optimized GPU for machine Apple's neural engines power what it calls and Animojis. We continue to push and we continue to see more operating system that take advantage of this, and In July, Apple reportedly built its own large Apple GPT. It's also acquired more than two dozen 2015. Critics have been surprised that Apple it comes to AI. How do you respond? I don't believe we are. Not to worried. Not to worried. And actually, we have an advantage. Again, going back to, we own the silicon, the learning all in one team. We're going to optimize for that. All the things we've seen about generative AI level, right? Apple hasn't been there yet. You know, Apple had an opportunity to really get think everyone expects it's coming in the coming In the meantime, Apple is getting ready to ship Pro early next year, which means thousands of through rigorous testing behind closed doors at It's just a source of great pride to say, okay, we and, you know, here's the end product that we're It's fascinating.