Did it work? Hello Internet. Welcome to Film Theory, the show *who's see Puss in Boots: The Last Wish? Review in a word. Wow! We have come a long way from the original Needless to say, I did not go in expecting But DreamWorks basically kicked down the door The story's wholesome. The characters are immediately iconic. And the animation; man! Between this film, Into the Spider-Verse and Mickey and the gang got to be quaking in their Mouse in boots. In case you haven't seen it yet, the Last he's on the last of his nine lives. And so he goes on an adventure to find a fallen But Puss isn't the only one who wants that His former partner Kitty Softpaws, Goldilocks evil pie baron Big Jack Horner are all after I love this guy. He is one of my all time favorite villains. And if that wasn't bad enough, a mysterious life for himself. Why? Well, because he's Death. Yup. The physical manifestation of death itself feel like Puss has respected the lives that That said, all of this about wishing for more Puss should already be dead. His ninth life is long gone. Forget the Tumblr sexy man wolf or pie boy The biggest threat is Puss himself. Based on everything that we see from him in By my count, we're talking at least seven. And I don't mean stuff like riding explosive crashed through windows or anything like that. No, you see, loyal theorists, almost every Death is absolutely right about Puss playing But we're not talking about the big picture I'm talking about all the mundane, everyday Puss in Boots is wasting his final life. And I'm about to prove it to you. Grab your star maps and your therapy dogs, It's time to dive in. First of all, let's just start with what we See, Puss eats and drinks a lot of stuff that And before you jump down into the comment with a magic cat MatPat, you need to stop First off, do you know what channel you're Secondly, though, we absolutely should be because we already know that it straight up During that opening montage. Puss Eats... eats shellfish. During this opening montage, Puss eats shellf.. Wow. That is... that might be one of the hardest During that opening montage, Puss eats shellfish WOO did it! Now it's played for a joke in the movie. But shellfish allergies are definitely a thing In fact, many of the symptoms are similar Hives, as well as swelling of the face and Admittedly, death is a bit of an extreme reaction Normally, symptoms for cats are more mild, Though some cats do experience respiratory can lead to their death. Why am I bringing all that up? Well, because it shows us that Puss in Boots And throughout the movie, we see him consuming That would be a no go for a cat. Firstly, we're talking about Puss's drink We see him drink a lot of it throughout the It almost seems to have this alcoholic property to drinking milk. According to the People's Dispensary for sick See, adult cats are lactose intolerant. Their intestines don't have the enzyme lactase, in milk. And even if they could physically drink it, milk anyway. Milk is full of fat. Basically a saucer worth of milk would be 12 inch pizza in a day. And look at how much we see Puss in Boots Do you see all those empty glasses on the From this aerial wide shot I count at least working on. And Puss isn't even done. That right there is the equivalent of Puss in just one sitting. And this is coming the day after he had yet So despite what all the old cartoons said not do it. It is just super unhealthy and can lead to So chalk up one extra death for Puss. He met his maker through milk. But perhaps even worse than the milk. Coffee. The opening fight against the giant of Del Caffeine is really unhealthy for cats to the them to consume considering their smaller If you want to know more about how crazy dangerous we actually just did a video about that over But for a cat? Side effects from a cat consuming caffeine heart rhythms, vomiting, diarrhea, tremors According to the Pet Poison Helpline, a moderate small dogs or cats. Now, before you start freaking out and hiding your animals, a small sip of coffee probably But Puss isn't that young anymore, so downing that is going to be bad news for this animal if the bell didn't crush him to death mere Caffeine overdose, death number two. But it's likely that puts would have died In fact, he would have died during the promotional Are you kidding me? A fictional cat got onto Hot Ones before me. Screw that noise. No, but he's killing me Puss, he's killing But, yeah, he's probably killing you, too. You see, the capsaicin in hot sauce is, as With studies showing that it can constrict throats and digestive system and in high enough And when you're talking about a 2 million fairly high dose for a feline. And then, of course, you have the literal Hot Ones: Taking out Puss's life before Capsaicin calamity: death number three. Seriously, Sean, when you do eventually have So, okay. Clearly Puss has himself some dietary issues, that probably would have gotten him killed Specifically the whole "In Boots" thing. Sure. Your drip may be on fleek there, Puss, but in your particular line of work. I don't know if you've ever tried to dress In fact, a lot of experts recommend against it causes them a lot of stress with no real for you. But even if Puss is the exception here and Let's just start from the top, shall we? First of all, the hat. This one item of clothing would probably get First, by wearing a wide brimmed hat like to take full advantage of his whiskers. You see, cats don't see the world the same They have a whole suite of abilities to help are a crucial part of that system. The whiskers act like a sort of radar able in the air. They also serve as the first level of alert Additionally, while a cat's long distance they struggle to see anything that's closer As a result, their whiskers help them navigate By touching the whiskers against objects, are, even sensing their texture. But the hat is going to stop all of that from It's going to change the airflow. It's going to change vibrations. It's going to prevent Puss from getting his touch them. Basically, the hat is going to be dulling I should say two of his most important senses. You notice what else that covers? his ears. That would be a problem, regardless of whether Basically, you're just muffling the sound, up on you almost exactly like we see death If Death here didn't want to be so dramatic, business without the cat being any the wiser. But the dulling of his hearing is actually You see, cats have some of the best hearing have around the house with a wider auditory But we're not just talking about better hearing Cats have a lot of muscle control over their any source of sound. I don't know if you've ever noticed that with sound in a quiet room, just notice how their a big antenna or a radar disk. This cool technique increases their hearing Wearing a hat is going to eliminate all of the other biological ramifications, wearing benefits. And all of this is without even mentioning fact that cats release a lot of their excess that Puss is going to be sweltering in any All in all, he may look dapper, but that's Death number four. Similarly Puss's cape is also going to be For all intents and purposes, the cape is more dangerous than a normal collar. See, though, putting a collar on your cat friend to strangers. They can be dangerous in specific situations. If they become snagged on some sort of object, be choked or strangled. The cape is going to present all of the exact it's just a bolt of fabric that's hanging Puss's cape is just an open invitation for a fight with an enemy who's smart enough to And wouldn't you know it, that's exactly Honestly, Edna mode from The Incredibles's No capes! It's death number five. No escape for this cape. But perhaps the worst in this whole attire? The boots. You ever notice how cats try to get anything Puss himself literally does this in the movie mittens. Puss: Stupid Mittens Cats don't like having their paws covered Some of them are kind of mundane, like the paws that help them mark their territory. They're also comforted by needing their little But other reasons are a lot more serious. The most obvious one is that paw pads are They help cats remain quiet and stealthy. Cats literally evolved to walk on their toes Changing that up to loud heavy boots click give up a massive natural advantage that cats Another problem? Cats actually sweat through their paws, mostly Ever take your cat to the vet and notice that So if Puss in Boots ever gets anxious or scared, of his own sweat in the boots. On top of getting himself a case of sweaty Ha, I wonder if we've ever seen that in the But not only is it a problem in battle, it's Sweating helps regulate your body temperature, This works the same way with the sweat coming if two of Puss's paws were in leather boots They'd be sticky and gross and wouldn't help And if anyone is in need of staying cool, Without the ability to sweat unimpeded Puss during those anxious fits after he fights And on top of all of that, just like the hat are also going to be a massive disadvantage It's not super common knowledge, but cats pop pads that act similarly to whiskers. These hairs not only act as a protective covering But along with nerve receptors in the pads the ground that they're walking on. What sort of material is it? What's the temperature? With the boots, he's losing basically all pads and the hairs touching the ground. In short, it's a recipe for death number six: So is that it? Did his vet/barber. Have the right idea in the film when he said that he should be living out his life with the house as a normal house cat? Well, not exactly. Resigning himself to a life of pickles. May just have been the most dangerous thing See, despite this being the simple, easy life his sunset years with Mama Luna. And it all comes down to one super simple You see, despite being played as a joke in entire house. Only one! A single box for, how many cats does she have? Dozens, at least. If you pause the movie at this wide shot, including Puss. Frankly, that is just far too many cats to Unless Mama Luna's cleaning that box every definitely not given how gross that thing to use it. The cats are going to be actively stepping Not only is that just disgusting, this set disease between the cats. The most serious of these fecal borne diseases can mutate into feline infectious peritonitis cats. So yet again, Puss choosing this life would Death number seven: One crappy way to die. Honestly, if Puss really wanted to choose wouldn't be putting him in constant danger He just needs to be a normal house cat. So Puss, hang up your sweaty boots and your old lady who doesn't have 44 other cats. All in all, by my count, Puss probably should we see recounted in the movie. In total, we're talking about 15 deaths. Looking at it that way, a sickle carrying were probably the least of Puss's concerns. Really when it comes to valuing your life, small, everyday decisions that ultimately Maybe that's why Wolfie was following him It wasn't to punish Puss for his reckless proper dress and a heart healthy diet to keep Seriously, even if he got his wish for another Why not ask for, like, I don't know, a hundred I guess counting really isn't your strong But hey! Speaking of cats needing to eat better so talk about Meow Mix, the sponsor for today's In case you don't know Steph and I have a and these channels for a long time. A long, long time. Long enough that he's not impressed with all Just look at that face. You know how a lot of things tend to get overwhelmed? Well, that right there is one entirely whelmed He's been plenty of places and he's definitely But one thing that still gets Skip running Every day. Boom! Highlight of the day he is right there this up when Meow Mix actually sent us a bunch ripped into one of the bags that they sent He was that excited and honestly, we couldn't Meow Mix is the perfect food for Skip. Despite his impressive bite strength, Skip's He's now 12 years old and we want to make Meow Mix Original Choice has 100% complete every essential vitamin and mineral he needs. But it's also packed with protein to help On top of all of that, Meow Mix comes in a and dry foods. So if your cat's a picky eater, or you just There's something here designed to satisfy So if you want to make sure that you're giving check out Meow Mix in all its varieties by Again thanks to Meow Mix for sponsoring today's We appreciate it and Skip really appreciates And as always, my friends remember, it's all A FILM THEORY! aaaaaand cut.