Today, we're going to be exploring ways you you work with Excel. Imagine having formulas shortcuts to make everything simpler. But I've got a quick question for you. What's the to stump you? Share your answers in the comments. Here I have a dataset containing selling six types of coffee. Now let's say I want to find out what the maximum sales revenue Excel function to use. Let's open ChatGPT key, windows and the left arrow to dock Excel the right side. In the message box, I'll ask my find the maximum value in a it replies with the answer. And it says here, replace A1 to A10 with the actual range where your data is located. Let's try paste it into Excel and replace this range with now I want to know what the best-selling coffee use to find the product that had the maximum the sales values are in D4 to D9, I'm using here saves me having to modify the formula that Excel I have, helps it know what functions I can which can be a bit daunting. So let's ask it if suggesting XLOOKUP and that'll partly be it knows this function is available to me. So are a great way for beginners to rapidly we found two solutions to one problem, something your own. Alright, I'll copy my spreadsheet and I can see the best-selling coffee is Frappe. Chances are you run into formula fair share. It happens to all of us. The great good at creating formulas, but also beginning the new year, our four more types of coffees to its record the sales. There are four columns in my per coffee in column D, But as you can see, the formula returns a #DIV/0! error. Now the error but the errors are off-putting, so let's see if trying to calculate the average revenue per item but it's giving #DIV/0! error when sales are using the IFERROR function. Let's copy it and &quot;N/A&quot; instead of ugly #DIV/0! errors. Of course, Returning the appropriate formula or debugging a of much more. Imagine the new coffee shop has now And now my spreadsheet contains consolidated sales sheet someone else inserted that only shows sales coffee, remember? It uses a FILTER formula, but explain this Excel formula step by step and then Specifying step by step in the prompt ensures than just a general overview. Okay, point 1 says formula which filters a specified range based on the formula is filter criteria Data!A:A, checks Data!B:B checks if the values 2 boolean arrays are multiplied together using an * which acts as a logical AND operation. This are true will pass through the filter and point 3 If no rows meet the filter criteria and then it it doesn't look so daunting, and I think I can let's change it to Turkish Coffee and I'll add column C are greater than 10,000. There we go! ask ChatGPT to fix it for you. As you can see, on a spreadsheet you inherited from someone Speaking of help, if you're still finding Excel Check out my range of Excel courses designed to take you from beginner to them all by clicking the first link in the video in Excel is with keyboard shortcuts, but with over can recall them in seconds, for example, AutoSum you don't use it regularly, it's easy to forget. shortcut to quickly add up The answer is ALT+ =. Notice, it's also given me the Mac shortcut as If you like shortcuts, be sure to download my &quot;Periodic Table of Shortcuts&quot; from There's a version for Windows function as your dedicated Excel helpers, automating repetitive tasks. Basic for Applications or VBA for short, and they're capable of handling tasks ranging from basic formatting to complex of a button. I've created a PivotTable to help and I share this report with some investors. but I want to make sure the PivotTables are of the refresh button. And while it's not hard forgotten. The last thing I want is my investors I'm sure I can do this with VBA, but I'm not &quot;Create VBA code to refresh PivotTable1 located same workbook is no longer active. I'm a beginner and I need to know the steps Again, I'm telling you the names I think it way I have less edits to make and in mentioning instructions to ensure I can use the code that and it explains how to add it to my workbook. I'll copy the code, and then I'm back in Excel. Step 1 is ALT+ F11 to open Step 2 is open the Project Step 3, expand the workbook, Step 4 is right-click 'ThisWorkbook' and select and then close the VBA editor. Okay, to test it so make a note of the amount here and on the Cuban Espresso. And as I navigate away from And you can see the amount for Canada for January add VBA to your file, you have to save it as VBA is the original way to automate tasks in execute in Excel online. Whereas the newer way to out this video next. Don't forget to like and