Oh boy, it's "TC does something electrical" time again! Today we're answering the age-old question "why do US plugs have holes in them?" That's a great question! And many people have asked that. Especially people who have noticed that plugs have holes in them. Let's ask everyone's begrudgingly favorite Oh! That's a perfectly logical explanation! Of course, why didn't I think of that? The outlet side must have some sorta squeezy and putting a little hole in the plug for it to I bet that makes the plug less likely to fall out of the receptacle! Except it doesn't. And that's not what it's for. At least, not intentionally. While the commonly-cited explanation makes logical sense, it seems few people are taking the next step which is of course to test this claim. And no, you don't need to do what I'm about to do and rip an outlet apart to see its insides - that's dangerous and you should not do that. But what you absolutely can do, and probably have done several times in your life, is plug something in and pay attention. Now as I've said many times at this point the NEMA plug design that we're stuck with here is objectively terrible and among the worst in the world in terms of safety-- just a friendly reminder that this pin is live! And yet really easy to touch!-- uh but we've been over that. What I want you to notice is what it feels Here we have a standard polarized lamp cord. Oh - right, side-note: There is one thing that our plug does to try and make I haven't brought it up because I assumed but much to my surprise it isn't apparently. Our plugs are polarized. Look at practically any outlet and you'll And on many two-pin plugs like this, one blade is fittingly meaning it can only be inserted into the receptacle one way. This is to enforce polarity between live and neutral. Of course this only works if the receptacle but assuming it was the narrow blade is live and the wider blade is neutral. Grounded plugs usually don't bother making and presence of the ground pin enforces polarity on its own, similar to how many other countries do it. You might think that since we're dealing and yeah everything will work if it's wired backwards, but that introduces danger in certain situations. Take, for example, an antique toaster with If polarity isn't enforced in the plug, on the neutral side when you plug it in, then all of the heating elements and bus bars that are literally right there and in easy reach would be live at 120 volts even when the toaster isn't toasting. That's shockingly unpleasant! A simpler but no less important use for a polarized plug is in a common lamp with an Edison socket. These are dangerous all the time because child fingers --and indeed full-size human fingers-- can get right in there. But making sure that the outer sleeve is neutral makes it at least marginally safer (and ideally prevents you from getting zapped off a light bulb where and that's pretty common.) Still need the outlet (and lamp) to be wired Anyway, not everything needs a polarized plug. Things that are double-insulated, for instance, and so either blade is free to be whatever it wants to be. As an example, tons of electronics stuff like other power supplies don't bother with polarization. But most general electrical devices, will use a polarized plug to ensure the switched leg is the hot leg. It's one of the few objectively good ideas in this plug design, and oddly enough we all seem used to it and Of course we could just put a ground pin on Then these things wouldn't just be dangerous, OK so back to the holes. I've got a lamp here with a holey plug and I'm gonna plug it in. Slowly. If these holes are used as a point for some surely I should feel the plug sort of... give as it's fully inserted, right? That would be when the holes would align with at least you'd hope so. OK so, here we go. Hmm. There doesn't seem to be any sort of change It's just a firm but smooth push the whole way. Same with removal. But I've got a bunch of different outlets I can test! I've got more of these than any other 'cuz I'm fancy but here's a tamper-resistant GFCI outlet. Hmm. Same as before. Alright and another one with a switch built-in. Still no obvious interaction with those holes. Uhh... alright here's a more generic one in my garage. Nope, still smooth. Uhhh... the basement! There's more in the basement. There's this GFCI receptacle here by the nope. Nothing. This one! Over here! Nope. OK but there's these! There's these! The grey tamper-resistant one's on a switch, Uh, nothing on the white one... ok... OK the grey one. Help me out the grey one. You're my only hope. Ahh! No! Is there not a purpose for these holes? Has my life been a lie? Oh wait! There's a 20A GFCI in the garage I forgot about! Here goes... at last! At last! The plug gave way after I first encountered something's engaged with the holes! But wait, that's not inserted fully. Well that's silly! Indeed it is. So was that whole sequence. Anyway, to see what's going on we need Luckily, through the magic of buying several we can see. I have four different kinds today. The cheap kind that comes in a big ol' box with like A slightly less-cheap one that purports to A so-called "commercial grade" feller. And this one that's old and I have a bunch They're off-white. Not my jam. I suppose mayonnaise is an off-white jam... So, these are the grabby things. They actually grab onto the plug's blades And they're all different! Luckily we can remove these from the plastic Of these designs, there are two that might but let's start with the two that obviously don't. That's these two. The mystery one and the cheap one. In the cheap one, we have two perfectly flat There isn't any kind of protrusion or bump and indeed the hole will simply glide right on through. In fact the flat surfaces are longer than the hole's diameter so there's no possible way for the hole to have any sort of impact. This is purely a friction fit. With the old mystery one we have the same Here the brass is formed into a U-shape and Now the blade is wider than that gap so there but it is notable that in the other design It's a very different design, here, with from this lower joint and not the U-bend. Perhaps it's more durable, but I'm not So now the heavy-duty one. This is a little strange. We have a somewhat similar arrangement to to form a pinch point, but the brass pieces aren't straight. One is very slightly curved, and the other With a blade between them the resulting deformation either side of the blade. Now, this kink spot here seems to sometimes without a plug in place you can see that the two sides actually only touch at the top, almost making a tent-shape. Sadly I did not buy two of these--a terrible oversight on my part -- so I can't see how the plug fits in here. And its face is too mangled to get an accurate idea. But I have to say that of these designs this The width of a plug's blades isn't enough they're simply too far apart. So you don't get a flat contact patch with instead you get two smallish points. Don't like that. But because of that, depending on how you those points might land where the hole is, and sort of grab onto it. But I sincerely don't think that's intentional. In fact if that happens you'd get an even worse electrical connection because there'd be less pressure on the blades where the hole is. And so now we are down to the commercial version. This one's got weird-looking sideways blade and likely the even-weirder looking NEMA 6-15 and 6-20R 240V receptacles. Yes, friendly reminder, 240V circuits exist here I made a video about them. Anyway the actual contacts are able to accept or the less-normal sideways ones and that's why they look like this. Taking a closer look we can see that, once that looks as if it's intentionally engaging with the The inboard contact is completely flat with and the side contacts... well maybe they might drop into the hole a bit, I suppose, but again. Doesn't look to be intentional at all. And if we go back to this here outlet, which we'll remember that while the plug does seem to get caught as it's inserted, that happens before it's fully-inserted. Which is just silly. The fact of the matter is this is just a friction fit. That's it. The presence of the hole in the plug, if anything, But here's the thing - if a plug is fully inserted? Those holes end up way past the actual point of contact. And you don't even need to look in here to see that, just grab a plug. After a few insertions and removals, there And sure enough, they don't stop at the hole. They go well beyond it. One of the other holes in this whole hole argument is that lots of plugs don't even have them! This timer doesn't. [awkward pause] And this is the only thing I could immediately find. But, I can think of at least two other unholey Also I'm pretty sure I have a power supply Also it should be noted this is from IKEA, from the dollar store or whatever. Despite not having holes in its plug blades, Nice and snug. So... what's the deal with the holes then? Why do so many -- in fact nearly all -- plugs if they're not actually doing anything useful? Well, the toads over at NEMA actually do tell us what the deal is with the holes. The holes are, and I quote, "Optional, and it is intended for manufacturing purposes only. However, if used, it must be located as per dimensions shown above." Interesting. Ya know, manufacturing purposes makes a lot Take this incredibly common plug design. The leads of the cord are simply soldered and then a big ol' glob of plastic is molded around it. These clear ones reveal that quite clearly. Putting holes in the blade would allow for using nothing but some sort of stick. In fact... here's that exact thing happening in a factory which manufactures these. The worker simply has to thread an alignment rod through this holder, place the blades and wires in there while pushing the rod through as they go, give a tug to ensure it's aligned, and boom. Plugs made to spec. But why is the location so important? Well, as far as I can tell, the answer appears to be pretty simple. NEMA just wants to be sure that the hole is that it won't land where the contacts touch the blade when the plug is fully inserted. We saw from the witness marks that the hole and none of these receptacles engage with the hole in any deliberate and those which appear to do it do it... badly. Again. This is not fully-inserted. [Voiceover] show using the hole as part of a locating mechanism. I didn't confirm these but another person in the wild which had a locking lever, presumably utilizing those holes. However it seems pretty clear that these are Whether NEMA is honoring these legacy devices not known to me, but I guess it's possible. However, I think in the end it's not a good which use the holes for indexing because of a problem Now I suppose there could be receptacle designs on the contacts which indexes the hole but If that were the case, the pins would have to allow for plug insertion and they'd wear out more Maybe there was an old design that NEMA wants But that still seems unlikely to me. All signs seem to point to "it just needs to be at least this far forward, and also making it too large would affect structural so we codified the hole's size and position. Whether you want to use it and for what is up to you." Well, I think that's about it! This video has a lot of speculation in it. But I'd welcome any of the NEMA toads out I might have missed. Like, for instance, are there historical designs And why is it so common for devices to have Is there a factory somewhere that just makes and they put the holes in not knowing what they're gonna be used in? Will I ever stop asking questions? Yes. Though I have to wonder if part of their prevalence I'll admit that the rare plugs I find without holes all seem kind of... wrong. And so maybe this is just a huge cultural People have seen the holes and so, when speccing they just put them there. Or maybe there is a factory that just pumps out these blades not even easy to get a solid blade. In the end, though, it doesn't really matter. This was a pretty silly video, huh. Oh, but before I go, I want to push back on that the rest of the world has about our plugs. I've seen over and over again this notion that plugs will just fall out of the wall. I can assure you that I absolutely think our but this isn't really that common. Sure, receptacles will wear out with time that barely holds onto a plug you really because that can lead to fires by way of poor connections and But it typically takes decades for a receptacle to wear to that point. Most outlets require a firm pulling force and big nasty wall warts don't have trouble hanging on. However, not all receptacles are created equal, and I think a big part of this perception can be traced to the worlds of hotels, airplanes, airports -- travel. And in particular this style of receptacle, I tried looking for something in the hardware but I couldn't find one. That's why this is at the end. But I suspect that these are made to much than the equipment that actually gets placed in a wall. I myself have encountered plenty of outlets and many are so damaged they don't even work anymore. But it has been quite rare that a real duplex at least not to that extreme. Now, even if this weren't a bad design, there's something's getting plugged into those outlets There's a finite lifespan on any connector, and in a setting where people are going to be using them daily or perhaps more frequently than that they're gonna wear out quickly. In a home setting many outlets get used... Some have something get plugged into them and Anyway, I'm just bringing this up because Every time I hear it I'm like... "no, that's not a thing I deal with" but then I remember that, actually, yes in hotels that's And so I think a lot of you are experiencing and then assuming that's the norm. And I feel that I must, on behalf of my fellow NEMA compatriots, inform you that this is incorrect. But yeah it's still a pretty bad design all 'round. The mere fact that this is possible is unforgivable. Just tremendously bad. Oh well, at least it's not 240 volts comin' out of there. optionally smooth jazz Let's ask everybody's favorite begrudgingly f... ugghhh. Well. We were doin' so well. Especially people who have ...meaning it can only be inserted into the recept ebbible I don't like how that went. ....this only works if the receptacle is wi... and I don't want to faff with that later. The cheap kind that comes in a big box with NEMA just wants to be sure that the hole is The blade. Sentence wasn't over. ...like when you insert the plug. Here we have a standard plaaaaaughhh. Here we have once again illustrated the perils of Google deciding what answers are. There's literally no basis in reality for the explanation that popped up. People really need to go a little bit beyond what makes intuitive sense because there are a lot of counter-intuitive realities in this world. Oh well, at least there's Ask Jeeves. Wait, it's not Jeeves anymore? I'm old.