Here Comes the Sun has become one of the into their music for many new fans. This also packed with intriguing anomalies, production a journey through the song's creation and point you can't unhear this. Here Comes the Sun kicks Road album, released in September 1969, the last in 1970. Unlike the vast majority of Beatles the main songwriting duo of Paul McCartney and youngest member of the quartet who contributed endearing love song called Something something According to his later account, George composed the skipping a stressful business meeting to instead day. With an acoustic guitar in hand, George tune we know today. The actual recording of one week into the sessions for the future Abbey were committed to tape, with Paul McCartney [isolated bass guitar] Ringo Star delivering a drums, and George handling the main The only Beatle not present was John Lennon, who Scotland. After 13 takes, the band decided bunch. On the next day July 8th, George recorded the previous day's session. Paul then joined with George to add gorgeous double-tracked harmony vocals. One of these harmonized sections might sound familiar. It was likely inspired by the Sunrays, which became a hit in Vanity Fair. While the main elements of the A week later on July 16th, George added a few more claps. After a brief hiatus, production picked 11th, George experimented with adding into the final mix and some didn't. On the technique to transform the sound of his unrecognizable. Instead of playing through a speaker with a rotating chamber called a Leslie. in many Jazz and rock recordings of the guitar at various points, but it's most 1:15. Interestingly, before recording Here Comes the on a song called Badge, co-written with his friend on the lyrics sheet to Here Comes the Sun that A different electric guitar part from these August this intriguing lost overdub was rediscovered [Music] George ultimately felt the guitar the EMI engineers to leave it out of the guitar overdubs, George turned to a special Beatles songs: an orchestral arrangement. As George Martin quickly whipped together woodwind ensemble that was recorded by session Still this was not enough for the go before the album was set to be mixed, George the fabulous and otherworldly sounds created Invented by engineer device was the first commercially had made cameo appearances on recent Doors and Bookends by Simon &amp; Garfunkel. while producing Apple artist Jackie Lomax's soon ordered a custom-built unit for himself, Clearly enamored with the moog's capabilities, sounds in early 1969 on the Beatles short-lived sessions, George enlisted Beatles Road manager Mal home to EMI Studios, where it was set up for guidance on how it actually worked. Nonetheless, the [Moog track isolated] The other Beatles were fascinated by handful of other Abbey Road tracks, Hammer and Because. There's another Here Comes the Sun. According to the Abbey part was recorded onto the same track that 15th, erasing those entirely - well, almost entirely. and it can be heard briefly after the bridge With all of the pieces finally in place layered recording of Here Comes the Sun was anomalies continued. If you have perfect pitch you might have noticed that the key of the song is it's and here's the final version. This intentional adjustment, often The Beatles to lend a special texture to their on Here Comes the Sun was discovered much 'and I say' following the second line. But in the last chorus, George skipped it. Or so we thought until 2006 when Here musical LOVE. In that version, the missing line first time. The last piece of bittersweet one: The day that the song was mixed, four Beatles - Paul John George and Ringo - were unparalleled 7-year creative journey in those day together was to determine the order of to place Here Comes the Sun as the opener segue following one of the most intense which ends abruptly during a swelling noise. Flip the record over - or nowadays just wait the tone for the rest of side two, leading little surprise in the sequencing too, perhaps with the same two words. But that's songs later, during one of John Lennon's There's a bit of a mystery as to suggests that John might have actually sessions began. The theory is based on in January 1969 when John was developing opening to Sun King. While messing around Due to the low quality of the recording, it's and I haven't found any other supporting evidence. returning to the riff numerous times during the particularly convincing. Another theory which lyrics in Sun King were written after George's typical cheeky Lennon word play referencing the John wrote the lyrics, but we do know that Sun the Sun. Adding to the confusion are a couple that summer where the two songs are referred to on the tape box. Neither John nor George ever spoke the true origin story. A connection wouldn't ideas within the group was part of the Beatles line from Here Comes the Sun back to Good Day on I'll Follow the Sun, on which George played Origin stories aside, the impact of Here Comes Harrison counterpart on Abbey Road, Something, point in George's recognition as a songwriter. was the first time that George had really John and Paul were equally impressed and Despite the collective admiration, Here Comes the single in the US or the UK. Early public reactions Times Review called George's contributions [George Harrison in The Rutles: All You Need is Cash] Any criticism was pretty songwriter would be confirmed the following album, All Things Must Pass. Indeed, the passage of performed it live on a handful of memorable Bangladesh, and in 1976 in a gorgeous Paul - Simon, on the American late And then of course there's the Eric Idle of sorts called Here Comes the Moon on his of outer space, Carl Sagan lobbied for Here Comes of human achievement on the famous gold disc unfortunately permission couldn't be secured in await Here Comes The Sun decades later, rocketing years as the most streamed Beatles song ever, and George Harrison song rather than a Lennon-McCartney new generations of fans. It's not hard to so many of their hits: irresistible songwriting, techniques. George's experimentation with the Moog long history of introducing eclectic instruments Wood to the Mellotron on Strawberry Fields Forever. Beneath its masterful production, the message of Here Comes the this anthem of optimism during a harrowing insurmountable personal and professional lonely the winter may seem, we have to remind again, and: it's all right. What do you think of me know in the comments. If you'd like becoming a YouTube member to get access to some