[click] intense music I love pinball. The sights, the sounds, the physical nature of actual stuff happening in front of you In fact, for as long as I can remember. Of course, a big draw to me is that these machines are... well, machines. And wondrous machines at that! A pinball machine is a fascinating tribute to humanity - artists, musicians, game designers and even voice actors work alongside machinists, fabricators, craftspeople, and engineers to manufacture these elaborate contraptions made purely for our amusement. Well, and to gobble up our quarters. [dramatic organ music] even just siding idle, you might have wondered how they work. Luckily, somebody gave me the keys to this machine [music stops] it's a computer. There's a computer in here. It keeps track of where the ball is, shows you your score on this display, plays music and sound effects through speakers, and lights up all the various light bulbs they need to be lit. How very modern. But pinball goes much further back than this. And not even twenty years prior to this machine leaving the factory, pinball machines didn't feature any integrated circuits of any kind. This is Aztec by Williams. Built in 1976, this machine hails from the tail end of the electromechanical era. It wouldn't be long before manufacturers started tinkering with electronic controls, in fact 10 copies of this very game were built as prototypes This one, though, well it's a little more old-school. And today, I'm gonna show you what makes it tick. [ticking sounds, five-at-a-time] Seriously, why is it ticking? To find out, we'll have to look inside. This time it opens from the back, and once you remove this panel you won't see anything that looks like a computer - in fact you'll find an unholy mess of wires linking And this isn't even the half of it! Inside the main cabinet under the playfield there's even more. We get in there by opening the coin door, pulling this lever which releases the lockdown bar (that's this large metal piece at the front edge of the cabinet), then once we remove the lockdown bar by lifting up on it, we can slide the glass out and the playfield will simply lift right up. There's even a handy prop rod! Now that we're in, we see even more wires and even more stuff. And that's not even the whole of it! Some of the control mechanisms are attached to the underside of the playfield. Each and every one of these devices is critical While this is nowhere near as complex as Theatre of Magic, different targets light the letters A, Z, T, E, and C. Light them all up and there's a chance for an extra ball. There's a bonus added for hitting certain targets And if you hit the right targets you can double the bonus value. There's more, too. If you complete AZTEC and fill the bonus ladder up to 50,000 points, that lights a Special which awards a free game. And which outlane is lit will flip back and forth as you hit other targets. You can also win replays based on your score, and that's configurable. Some of the rules can even be changed - winning a special can award an extra ball instead of a replay, and there are even three difficulty settings which change how many targets But aside from rules and features, the machine also needs to keep track of which ball is in play (oh and by the way you can choose whether you want It has to end the game when it's over and disable the playfield, and when a new one is started it needs to reset the scores to zero. Plus, up to four people can play this game. It's fun to compete! So it needs to keep track of which player is up, and only change that player's score when it's their turn. Somehow that's all being accomplished with... this rat's nest of wires and stuff! How? Why, it's easy - just look at this schematic. I'm sure you can figure it out! I'm kidding, of course - and even if you studied this for hours, it's not gonna make any sense unless you understand So, since you're all watching, I suppose it's my job to explain what these parts are doing We'll start with the basics and work our way up. And we're gonna go way back to basics with a bit of history. But just a bit, I promise. Pinball is called &quot;pinball&quot; because in the earliest days An evolution of the French game bagatelle, Marbles rolled down a board set at an angle Those pins would create obstacles that deflected the motion of the rolling balls Games like this were made going back to the 18th century, but they would remain obscure toys for the wealthy for many years. Then, some time around the great depression, (albeit a very simple one). David Gottlieb designed Baffle Ball in 1931 which is widely regarded I don't have one to show you but I do have Microsoft Pinball Arcade! Baffle Ball was a simple baseball-themed (I guess) marble game When the coin slide was pushed in, trap-doors in the goals would open allowing the balls to fall down into the machine and collect at the ball shooter. Then the player had their fun. These early games were purely mechanical, featured manual scoring, were meant to go atop a table or other such surface, and started showing up in bars and parlors all across the country. And... plenty of gambling based on your score occurred, too, but that's a story for a different time. Baffle Ball was so successful which, by the way, was so successful the company that Bally. With a variety of games for players to choose from, companies making pinball machines scrambled to add new features Features like bumpers, electric lights, automatic scoring, and eventually moveable bumpers in the player's control. It was none other than D. Gottlieb &amp; Company that introduced While the arrangement of the flippers on the playfield is certainly... this machine set new and enduring standards for pinball. And, 29 years later, one of Gottlieb's main rivals, Aztec. The one I'm standing behind and that this video is principally about. That one. First, let's look at what the player sees. The playfield is still just a wooden board with things attached to it But now a variety of targets, obstacles, bumpers, plenty of lights, and let's not forget flippers make the game fast-paced, As with most pinball machines, the playfield is slightly off-center as the right hand side of the machine That sends the ball up to the top of the playfield using a player-operated plunger, A simple gauge is printed on the shooter Depending on the game's design, and many games feature a deliberate element known as a skill shot Now you'll notice that there are fairly large obstacles This is done mainly to define paths the ball might or, in some cases, must take. These can be created in a number of ways but the most common is plastic posts fastened to the playfield which are then fitted with rubber rings. Large rings may be stretched across two or more posts to create a linear barrier, but you'll find plenty of individual posts with their own rings, too. The rubber rings make the ball bounce off these obstacles, often unpredictably, To fill the otherwise blank areas of the playfield created by the obstacles, decorative plastic pieces printed with graphics matching the game's theme This also helps visually define the shape of the off-limits areas. Underneath the plastics you'll find small incandescent light bulbs. This is the only safe place to put 'em since the ball can't hit them, and they illuminate the playfield to allow for play in a dark room. All things considered, Aside from the various 10 point bumpers, this game features three rollover buttons, eight rollover lanes, six stand-up targets, one spinning target, one kickback lane, two slingshot kickers, and three pop bumpers (though Williams would prefer you call them Jet Bumpers for trademark reasons). All of these award points when they're hit, but they often do something else, too - or change how many points they award. But for now, let's just focus on the points. The game shows you your score on the backglass Oh, by the way, this backglass isn't in very good shape I've just not gotten around to ordering the right piece of glass for it yet. Anyway, see if you can spot a fun little trick Look at the front. And now the back. Do you see what's off? Look at the front again. There are six digits in the score. But look at the back and there are only five score reels per player. The last digit of the readout is, in fact, fake and is there only to inflate the score. But! Williams went through the trouble of printing the bottom of the 9 which makes it quite convincing. Here's a spare score reel, or drum unit as Williams calls it, we can look at up close. It's a fairly simple device: just a large plastic drum with the digits zero through nine printed on its edge and a ratcheting mechanism to advance the A small solenoid (a type of electromagnet) pulls on a plunger and that advances the mechanism by one step. By the way, I hope you like electromagnets 'cause this machine is chock full of 'em. The game's circuitry runs on 24 volts AC produced by this lump of a transformer sitting in the bottom which also produces 6 volts for all the lamps. All of the targets the ball can hit that award points are merely simple switches. When the game is on and in-play, Take these 100 point rollover buttons for example. They literally are buttons and beneath the playfield two electrical contacts become pressed together when the button is depressed by the weight of the ball. You might guess that these 100 point buttons are wired and sure enough when I press it [clack/ding] But that's not all that happened. A bell rang at the same time. Sitting in the cabinet near the coin door is the chime unit. This is a unit with chimes. Each of its three chimes has a solenoid sitting below it it flings a plunger up into the chime which gives it a right smack. [Three dings, a la the NBC theme] That certainly rings a bell. Since two solenoids were fired with one switch - the switch on the playfield isn't what's powering them. Instead, the playfield switch powers a relay. Specifically, the 100 point relay which lives in the backbox. Relays are switches that are actuated with - wait for it - an electromagnet! A coil of wire creates a magnetic field when it's energized and that in turn actuates a series of switches. Sometimes relays are simple, and sometimes they're not. In pinball machines like this, ** they're not ** Pinball pushes relays to their conceptual limit using them to create the game logic and do countless other tasks, but that's a big part of why I like these machines so much. Notice that some of these switches are normally open but some of them are just the opposite. There's even a third option - make/break switches. We'll see some of those later. In this case, the switch on the playfield, completed a circuit to energize the 100 point relay. When that pulled on its armature, these two switch contacts closed which completed a circuit both to the hundreds position score reel All of the targets worth 100 points have their switches wired in parallel And all that arcing we see is precisely why the game uses a relay Seems simple enough, but there are many more switches on this relay In fact there are six. One of these additional switches is there Solenoids are fast, but they're not instantaneous. If the ball just brushes up against a target, the contact time may have been too brief for the solenoid in the score reel So, these two contacts actually provide a way for the relay to power itself. If I bridge them with a screwdriver you'll see it pull in. On its own this would be useless - the moment any 100 point target were hit But that circuit path travels through a switch on the score reel This is normally closed allowing power to flow through At that point it breaks the circuit powering the relay, so the relay lets go. Here's what that looks like on the schematic for the machine. Full disclosure, because some of what's visible here is very confusing without context I haven't given you yet and it's not important right now. When reading the schematic, power flows across the page (though it's AC so it flows in both directions). The 100 point relay coil is right here. It will become energized when any of these switches close. They're labeled to indicate what and where they are, But this switch is labeled &quot;100 point relay.&quot; That means it's a switch within that relay, So, it closes when the relay energizes, and since it also provides power to the relay coil, it provides that bypass which keeps the coil energized But that switch is itself wired in series Those are the end-of-stroke switches we were just looking at, the relay will lose that bypass signal and de-energize. Another contact in the relay has to do with the number 9. The score reels are not mechanically linked - But if you have 900 points and score an additional one hundred, so two reels have to move in order to display that sum. [dings] [ding... ding... ding... dongs] This switch in the 100 point relay but only when the 100 point score reel is on the number 9. Look back at the score reel and you'll find a stack of switches (which we call a switch stack, oddly enough) sitting near the top. This switch is normally open, but a pivoting mechanism When it's closed, an interlock is created between the 100 point relay Take a look at the schematic again. These are the 9th position switches on the score reels, and you'll see that they connect to that switch within the 100 point relay. If the score reel switch on the player that's up is closed, then the next time the 100 point relay fires, power will also get sent through to this switch and up to the 1,000 point relay coil, therefore the two relays will fire together. All of the succeeding score reels have this interlock, so a score of 99,990 will correctly roll to 100,000 when a single 10-point bumper is hit. [three chimes and a loud clack] Speaking of the 10-point bumpers, now's a good time to go over the various target types on the playfield. When a rubber ring is stretched across two posts, The contacts are slightly separated sending power to the 10 point relay and also steps the number match unit... Don't worry about that yet. Uh, there's a lot going on in here! The stand-up targets throughout the playfield are but one of the switch contacts is attached to the face of the target. The gap between the contacts here is important; a wider gap will require the ball to hit the target But if they're too close, simply brushing against the target will register as a hit. So it's generally best to be somewhere in the middle. The rollover lanes are essentially the same thing as the rollover buttons, but instead of a button, a formed piece of wire When that wire is depressed by the ball, Generally the ball can travel over these in either direction, but you'll notice that the designers had an evil streak with the outlanes. Those have their trip-wires formed Should you happen to get very lucky and have the ball bounce off the apron unless it's going very fast it will just Boo! The spinning target, while very different in its execution, The metal plate that the ball hits is attached to an eccentric... axle? I guess? And a wire linkage connected to the right hand side When the target rotates, that linkage is repeatedly pulled up and down repeatedly connecting and disconnecting the two contacts as it spins. When this target is hit just right, it's quite the show. [rapid clacking and dinging] But not quite the show that the pop bump- I mean jet bumpers can put on. Pioneered by Williams in 1948, They're triggered by a circular platform known as the skirt. This is attached to a stick resting in a bowl below the playfield. While rather silly at first glance, the stick will pivot which in turn pushes the bowl downward That provides power to the solenoid beneath the playfield When that occurs, the ball finds itself between that ring and the skirt. Solenoids are quite fast so the ring immediately comes Since the ring is angled at roughly 45 degrees, the ball gets flung away from the bumper. This is a very rough process and since the playfield is made of wood, This wasn't always standard practice, though, so many older games exhibit severe wear around the bumpers. If you noticed the second switch down below the jet bumper, It's just like the targets we've been looking at, but hidden away and activated by the movement of the bumper ring Not all games work like this, though - which locks on in a similar fashion to the points relays we looked at earlier. A contact within that pop bumper relay awards points, and this switch serves as an end-of-stroke switch That approach has pros and cons and Williams opted to The main downside of this approach is that occasionally the ball so it kinda-sorta half-fires and it doesn't award points. And finally, we have the slingshots. These dastardly things are hardly a target worth hitting as they only score 10 points, and they have a nasty habit of flinging the ball right into the outlanes. They're made up of three posts arranged in a triangle In the center of the long edge is a kicker just behind the rubber ring. The kicker is flanked on either side by two switch contacts. When the ball hits the rubber ring and either of those switches close, power is sent to a solenoid below which pushes the kicker outward, stretching the rubber ring and flinging the ball away. Just like the pop bumpers, it's a switch below the playfield and the switches behind the rubber only provide power to the solenoid. Oh, right, I forgot about the kickback lane here. This thing is sort of a combo The ball lands on a trip wire, and after points are awarded An interesting twist with this machine is A bridge rectifier and capacitor are attached to the underside of the playfield which means that there is in fact a single semiconductor in this machine! Or four depending on how you wanna define things. It turns out that solenoids powered by DC can be stronger than AC-powered ones, and Williams began tinkering with them around this time. Only the pop bumpers and slingshots are powered through the rectifier, though, Everything else, including the flippers, is powered by 24 volts AC. And why don't we talk about the flippers? As with pretty much everything that moves, But in this case they're controlled by the player with buttons on the side of the cabinet. Those buttons simply push the contacts of a leaf switch together Then they pull on a linkage, and the flipper bat pops up. Flipper coils, though, are unique. See, a strong solenoid needs quite a lot of power. That means they get hot over time. For every other solenoid in the machine, But the flippers are controlled by the player, and that player might just want to hold the flippers up in order to catch the ball. That could cause the coils to overheat. And coils that overheat tend to get melty, then smoky, and on rare occasions, firy. Slow-blow fuses throughout the cabinet should prevent a serious problem like a fire but we want the flippers to be able to stay up without causing any trouble. So, if you look carefully at the flipper coil, The long coil of wire that actually makes the solenoid has a connection in its middle When the flipper is at rest, the button sends power to the coil through the center tap. This bypasses half of the coil's length, reducing the number of turns of wire that current flows through That might seem backwards but that's just how solenoids work. But once it reaches the end of its travel, it opens this switch: That removes power from the center tap, This reduces the current flowing through and the strength of the solenoid and allows it to stay energized without burning up. And for a demonstration of this principle, observe the change in sound [buzz BZZTTZZTTZZZ buzz BZZTTZZTTZZZ buzz BRRRRRGGGGGHHH buzz BRRRRGHHHHH buzz] The lights in the machine even dim while I do this - it's a lot of current! At this point, we've looked at how everything on the playfield works, we've seen how the machine shows you your score, and we've seen how points get added to it. But the machine is doing a heckuva a lot more than Which you might have been able to tell by all the stuff inside. There are layers and layers of complexity built atop the basic scoring functions. For instance, the machine has to know how to count. You get three balls per game and then it ends. It also needs to know how many players there are but also not do that if the current player Then there's the bonus ladder I referenced earlier but can be advanced when you hit certain targets in increments of 5,000. And I think that's a good place to move to next: the number five. Here, watch this. [bell rings five times] How on earth do you suppose that happened? I hit a switch just once, [ding ding ding ding ding] Well, remember that ticking it was doing in the beginning? Perhaps you noticed it happened in groups of five. Listen again. [clacking noises in quintuplets, plus a humming sound] Turns out the number 5 appears all over the place. This target is worth five hundred points, this lane scores 5,000, as does the kickback target. The bonus values increment in steps of 5,000 points. And then there's this thing's name: AZTEC. That has five letters in it. And some of the targets will award points How... how is it doing all that? And why does everything happen in fives? Well, it's time I introduce you to the score motor. This wonky looking contraption is the closest The score motor consists of an electric motor which, slowly rotates a series of eight cams upon which rest The stacks, from left to right, are called index, one, two, three, four, five, Incidentally impulse forward just has a single switch Ah, sequence - what a good word! That is pretty much the whole idea of the score motor. It allows things to happen automatically in a sequence. On every one of the eight cams there are a series of divots or bumps. These will actuate the switch stacks as the cam rotates: either the stack will briefly fall into the divot or, in the case of the two impulse cams at the far right, a series of bumps will push up on the switch stack The cams one through five are all offset one two three four five, and impulse and impulse forward are bumped five times with every rotation. The index cam on the far left is critical for the score motor's functions. The switch on the top of this stack is the Motor Run switch. It's much like the self-powering interlocks we've been looking at in other relays. When closed, it provides power to the motor and thus it will run - and crucially, that switch is closed whenever the motor is out of its parked position. Once it gets back to the park position, the switch stack falls into the divot, In practice, this means that if anything should cause the motor to start moving, It even works if I just push on it. [rapid clicking and motor noise] But you'll notice that when I did that... [chickachickachickachickachickachunk] nothing happened. This is what's both very confusing and completely critical With the exception of the motor run switch, the rest of these switches aren't connected to anything They're just... there, clicking away without accomplishing a thing It takes two to tango, and to make something happen And what does it use to make that happen? That's right, relays! That's why there are so many of them in this machine. To actually make something occur, you need a relay to connect these bouncing switches to other things in the machine that way they'll, y'know, do stuff. Take this rollover worth 5,000 points as an example. You'll never guess what the 5,000 point rollover switch completes a circuit to. It's none other than the 5,000 point relay This relay has three switch contacts The switch on the right sends power to the motor to start it turning [motor runs in bursts] The switch on the left is yet another relay interlock. The rollover switch is what sends the initial power [CLACK] but once these contacts are touching, the relay keeps itself powered. If I bridge these contacts, you'll see the relay pull in and lock itself on. If this feels familiar, well it's doing the same thing as the switches on the points relays in the backbox: it keeps the relay energized until its task is actually complete. And right now, I've disabled the score motor. Since it's not moving, this relay cannot complete its task Its task, remember, is to add 5,000 points to the score. And the middle contact in the relay is what makes that possible. When closed, this connects the 1,000 point relay in the backbox to this switch on top of the impulse cam of the score motor. When I plug the score motor back in, the cams begin rotating and since the impulse cam actuates its switch stack five times, the 1,000 point relay will receive five pulses through this switch. [five clacks and dings] And right after it sends the fifth pulse, the relay lets go. That's because the relay's interlock Once cam five is actuated, that switch is broken so the relay And now the machine is at rest. This happens very quickly (which is incidentally the point) However, I can slowly rotate the score motor by hand Once the 5,000 point relay becomes energized, it locks on by keeping itself powered through a switch on cam five. It also connects the impulse switch through to the 1,000 point relay. As I turn this, we hear the machine dinging and buzzing But the relay's still locked on because cam 5 hasn't been actuated yet. When that switch stack falls into the divot, [buzz/ding.... clunk] [ding] [clunk] [ding/buzzzzz] [clunk] [click] As you can imagine, the timing here is critical and the cams are aligned so that the fifth bump of the impulse switch (which also happens just before we get back to the start point With the score motor re-enabled, this all happens quickly and automatically. I hope you can appreciate how amazingly bonkers this is. And that was one of the simplest relays in the machine We've still got a bajillion relays to look at, and we're how long into this video? Yeah, I can't cover how everything works in this machine, So there will definitely be a second part. But before we conclude here, let's talk about the AZTEC targets, how they light up their respective letters, and why that changes what other targets do. By now, I hope you know what the switches in these targets send power to. Say it with me now, relays! And Williams was kind enough to mount them in order Here's the A relay, the Z relay, the T relay, the E relay, and the C relay. For now, let's just focus on the A relay. This single relay features all three kinds of switch contacts. The three leftmost switches are normally open, Then we have a normally closed switch - this one does just the opposite. But the two on the right are make/break switches. The relay moves the center blade, it redirects the flow of power from one place to another. Like the 5,000 point relay we just looked at, As soon as the left hand switch makes contact, And this relay will stay locked on until the end of the ball-in-play. The next three switches have to do with the center target and the kickback lane - The two switches on the end, the make/break switches, The A rollover lane is marked "Lites A," Obviously that means it lights some things up, but it also makes this light go out. It's this make/break switch that changes which lights are lit. Before I hit the target, 6 volts was sent to the right-hand contact But once I hit it and the relay locked on, power was redirected to the contact on the left Lighting the spinner target changed its point value from 100 to 1,000 points. How? Well, that's what the other make/break switch did. It disconnected the spinner from the 100 point relay Now, I could just tell you that, but you might have noticed that the wires in this machine are color-coded Let's follow their path. This is the spinning target switch. When closed, it sends power out this gray wire with a red stripe. It ends up bundled in the harness and comes back out right here at the relay. There, it's sent out either through the white wire with a red trace on the right Those wires re-enter the harness, split out towards the back into this small bundle and sure enough those two wires eventually end up at the coils Which one is connected depends on whether or not the relay is energized. And here's what that looks like on the schematic. Power is sent through the spinner switch on the grey and red wire. That ends up at the make/break switch in the A relay. The normally closed contact connects over to the 100 point relay, so the spinning switch will send power there when closed. But, when the A relay is energized, power is redirected to the brown and yellow wire But the spinning target is only one of three targets There's also the center target and the kickback lane. Those targets are worth a set value when none of the letters are lit, in fact, more for every letter that's lit. In the case of the center target, it's 1,000 points for each lit letter, and the kickback lane awards 10,000 points for each lit letter. That means that, technically, the targets have six possible values each. How can this sort of circuitry possibly manage that? Well, it's actually simpler than it might seem. Let's look at the center target first. The center target switch sends power to the center target relay, of course, which is similar to the the 5,000 point relay we looked at earlier. Once powered it locks itself on, starts the score motor spinning, and releases just after the fifth pulse of the 100 point relay. Thus, it adds 500 points to the score. But look at the circuit path on the schematic. Power comes through the impulse switch here, uh, here it is, and then it has to go through all of these normally closed switches If they're all closed, then we're fine - the 100 point relay will be pulsed five times and we get those 500 points added to the score. But if any one of the AZTEC letter targets has been hit, its respective switch in its relay is open, and since all those switches are wired in series, this circuit path is broken. So it no longer works. Ah, but we get 1000 points for every letter that's lit. And we just have to move a little ways up on the schematic to see how that works. Here again we see switches in the A, Z, T, E, and C relays. These are normally open, but close when their respective relay is energized. And right above them we see switches in a circle. This is how the schematic tells us those are in the score motor. And the notation tells us where in the score motor those switches are. The A relay is connected through the index stack, switch B The Z relay through stack one, switch A The T relay through stack 2, switch A. The E relay through stack 3, switch A. And the C relay through stack 4, switch A. We already know that those switch stacks So you can imagine what's happening here as a sort of scanning sequence. When the center target is hit and its relay is energized, each of the letter relays receives a pulse of power at their respective switches. The A relay receives its pulse immediately But as the motor turns, that switch opens and then the following relays get pulsed one at a time. Whichever relays are energized will have this switch closed, so its respective pulse makes its way through the center target relay Thus it adds 1,000 point for every lit letter. This is pretty wild, right? Despite just being a tangled mess of wires, relays, switches, a motor and some cams, we have a machine which methodically checks whether each of the five letter targets has been hit and awards points if it has been. This results in a unique pattern of dings depending on which targets are lit. I won't waste your time any further by going through every possible combination, but here are a few: [ding ding / ding ding] [ding / ding / ding] [ding/ ding ding ding] [ding ding ding / ding] You probably noticed that right alongside That's what I've been calling the kickback lane - Williams decided to refer to this as the shooter this is also the shooter. But anyway, that target works in essentially the exact same way as the center target, but it pulses the 1,000 point relay through the impulse switch (thus awarding 5,000 points) and pulses the 10,000 point relay for every lit letter. The only other difference is that the shooter coil gets fired at the end of the sequence through switch 4-E in the score motor to kick the ball out of the target. While I covered a lot of what this machine does in this video, it's probably pretty obvious based on all the other stuff in here In part 2, we'll take a look at how the machine manages to do like this one: [ding ding ding ding ding / ding ding ding ding ding / ding ding ding ding ding / ding ding ding ding ding / ding ding ding ding ding tuck click clack ka-chunky shwhup] Yep, it added 25,000 points to the score all on its own, then changed the ball-in-play light from one to two. Apparently it can count. And it also knows your score - cross 350,000 points and... [ding ding *clunk* ding ding] you've won a replay. Stay tuned for how that all works. It's just as nuts as everything you saw here. Thank you very much for watching. I hope you enjoyed it and that I've been able to help you understand all this nonsense. The thing is, though, it's not nonsense - it's logic! And that's part of why I like machines like this so much. You can actually look at them, pick it apart, It blows my mind how folks of the past figured all this out and got these things manufactured in mass. And perhaps even more mind-blowing, while this machine is from 1976 most of the tech in here existed in some form back in the 1930's. It just got built up in layer after layer And to be honest, this machine isn't that complex. There are plenty of electromechanical pins out there In fact, twenty years prior to this one getting manufactured, Bally introduced a game with multiball. Yeah. Maybe one day we can take a look at a more complex machine but for now... I need to go to bed. G'night everybody. coin-operatedly smooth jazz You didn't know this but I'm even wearing PJs. You never know what I've got on below the desk. Or behind the pinball... In fact, 10 copies... I... slightly... ooh, left handed teleprompter control's gonna throw me off. Just gonna need to pick this up. Quite the assortment of weird ob... ahhhh! We can slide the glass out and the playfield will simpy lift right up. I botched the word "simply" To find... de ber da ka ta ka da bakatakaww And just a bit, I promised. Promised? That's not the... what? Large rings may be stretched across two or more posts to create a linear barrier, but sometimes that sounds weird and I'm gonna start over. But you'll find plenty of individual rings with their own rings, too. Well, this line's not going great! And that advances the mechanism by one step. It, or it would if I weren't so clumsy. Ever since I was a young boy, But sadly I got started and you really couldn't find 'em but that wouldn't stop me: [imagined guitar riff clashes with soprano sax]