So, I'm Chris Palmer, um, I'm a psychiatrist, metabolic theory of mental illness. I really want um, just a quick show of hands--how many people Good, no, I'm really glad. So, I'm sorry to usually--I usually assume people haven't heard it. but today, we're just going to walk through it. the work that I do, other than that I wrote In case you didn't know, we have a mental health people on the planet suffered from a mental population. Rates in the United States are even in any given year, and about 50% of Americans will during their lives. But, because of the pandemic, one of the leading causes of disease burden and sometimes problematic, but even for people getting There's this curious thing: the rates of mental categories have been increasing for decades. Rates rates of ADHD have tripled since 2010. But these there's been an acceleration in the rates we've had an Adderall shortage the last few reached an all-time recorded high, both in terms This is a worldwide phenomenon. The rates of example, have led to a more than fivefold increase are the people who are too thin, who are starving the hospital for binge-eating disorder; you Overdose deaths in the United So, what are we doing about this crisis? Well, psychotherapies, hospitalizations, group transcranial magnetic stimulation, programs, and eating disorder programs. I am a there for almost 30 years. I want to say that millions of lives every year. I am not here even with the best treatment possible, they often affecting anywhere from 20% to 60% of Why such a ridiculously wide range? Because it we following people? What's the follow-up remission? If they get a remission is that treatment-resistant, or do we count two months? The reality is, this is a crisis--a And it begs the question: why can't we do better? field has been unable to answer two fairly simple Dr. Palmer, causes mental illness? I can't tell ask the leading psychiatrists and neuroscientists honest one--they will say, 'No one knows.' risk factors. We talk about the biopsychosocial it's neurotransmitters, genetics, hormones, Loneliness is the big thing for the Surgeon they say, will tackle our mental health fit together? Well, they'll say, 'Dr. Palmer, The second common-sense question that What exactly is mental illness? On the surface, because we have the DSM-5-TR, which has schizophrenia, depression, bipolar disorder, anorexia nervosa, OCD. On the surface, most they're household words. But there are three comorbidity, and a lack of validity. with the same diagnostic label can have wildly with depression can be overeating, oversleeping, be undersleeping, undereating, losing weight, and with other symptoms, but they can have wildly symptoms, and we give them the same label. Two parents painfully have to put him in a group home he bangs his head against the wall until he impairment. If you ask, &quot;What's wrong with And yet we see billionaire businessmen on the news Comorbidity means that if you have one mental On average, population studies show that there's a 50% chance you qualify for more treatment--mental health treatment--on average, if you're being treated for schizophrenia, there's use disorder. If you've got anorexia nervosa, disorder. Major depressive disorder? You might Now, on the surface, schizophrenia, depression, But if you look at real humans who have these of their brain disorders. How does that work? before, this is not heresy. Tom Insel at the NIMH make progress in this field as long as we cling the NIMH developed the Research Domain Criteria, disorders. There are also competing models, like These models get complicated fast because symptoms. Some of them can be considered has just stuck with schizophrenia and depression. mess. And it's tragic because people are dying. if not all of you, know someone--a nephew, your coworker's kid. It's not funny. lines of research suggest this problem might of evidence suggest that mental disorders researchers like Leu examined internalizing and they seem to converge in some way, suggesting a on this model and looked at every label in the Brandt et al. suggested that it's not just mental seem to share this common pathophysiology. factors, genetics, and other factors. The models many in the field think this can't be true. They all mental disorders. Others strongly believe they trauma. Trauma causes all mental illness. Figures is the unifying cause of all mental illness. I have suggested is that it's not trauma--though mental disorders are metabolic disorders affecting known risk factor for mental illness can be tied in cells can explain why the brain exhibits the This approach integrates biopsychosocial risk between mental and physical health. I want to share a quote from Albert Einstein: an old barn and erecting a skyscraper in its gaining new and wider views, discovering point and its rich environment. The point from although it appears smaller and forms a tiny of the obstacles on our adventurous way up." replace the theory of gravity. It integrated with other theories, like momentum. And that's Trauma does play a role; neurotransmitters do Let me share a quick tour of some lines lines of evidence--I wrote a whole book and could But let's start with correlations. Correlations correlations make you consider the possibility share strong bidirectional relationships cardiovascular disease, and Alzheimer's--all Bidirectional means that if I go to a there are more likely to have all of these But if I go to a Weight Watchers group, for they're more likely to have mental illness. to have mental illness. People in nursing homes, Let me walk you through some statistics. If you three times more likely to have obesity and have premature cardiovascular disease. times more likely to develop Alzheimer's live to the relatively young age of 66, you developing dementia on top of your schizophrenia. obesity, you're 50% to 350% more likely to develop likelihood of depression, anxiety, personality all--substance use disorders. Diabetics are two illness. Cardiovascular disease increases the A study showed that 97% will have symptoms ruminations, insomnia. Forty to fifty percent are the hallmark symptoms of schizophrenia. you have a 20-fold increased risk of developing you have a 50-fold increased risk of developing cannot talk about the root causes of any of these And metabolism encompasses more than obesity, be thin and metabolically unhealthy. You can fact, a large study showed that if you're you're at greater risk of developing a range of A recent cohort study of 170,000 adults, half with controls, analyzed data from brain scans, blood particularly of the metabolic, hepatic, and immune mental illness than any brain changes We've long known that people with chronic anywhere from seven to 30 years of life, a study published five years ago in The Lancet and bipolar--it's all of them. All DSM-5 labels On average, men with mental disorders lose 10 Now, everyone thinks that these deaths crazy and killing themselves.' Yes, suicide but the primary causes of death among the mentally ten years younger than everyone else. Health Organization put together a task factors related to the individual's behavior or maybe it's medication side effects), problems don't go to their primary care doctors and take (the mentally ill are more likely to be poor and In reality, these explanations often mentally ill are lazy slobs, that they and that's why they are the way they are. they deserve, with choices stemming from a lack But I am here to assert that these are When you are metabolically compromised, you be fatigued and lethargic in a way that's hard to be able to hold a job, think straight, or remember function to show up at work on time every day. about integrating over a century of science. In in lactate metabolism and glucose metabolism in We've been doing neuroimaging studies for decades, which all measure brain metabolism. The anxiety, PTSD, schizophrenia, bipolar, So, Dr. Palmer, what's the test for metabolic range of tests that may be different for different with mental disorders compared to healthy glucose metabolism, ATP to ADP ratios, reactive to NADH, inflammatory cytokines, cortisol, Now, you don't need to understand the details, and we don't have a single biomarker for metabolic say, &quot;Chris, come on. I see my patients in front overeat, gain weight, and smoke like a chimney. This study suggests it might not be so simple. 24. Those with the highest levels of insulin increased risk of developing a psychosis-risk were three times more likely to be diagnosed The kids who gained the most weight around develop clinical depression by 24. terms: bad food makes you sick, and then of it as a feedback loop--a cycle between what So, metabolism--what does that mean? Dr. Palmer.&quot; Or, &quot;It's metabolic syndrome, with Both are true but insufficient. Metabolism is convert food into energy and building blocks waste management. Metabolism is fundamental to the metabolism defines death; there are no exceptions. like a virus, it's not considered a living metabolism, that may seem too all-encompassing What controls metabolism? We're led to tiny things class, you may have heard that mitochondria research over the last 25 years has completely they are powerhouses, but they are so much more. are hundreds or thousands of them in each fuse, and bud off from each other. They're If you start diving into mitochondrial They have different cell-dependent phenotypes, They're a universe within the cell. And we pathway to neuropsychiatric disorders. synthesis, and release of neurotransmitters and others. But these neurotransmitters also the primary creators of signals that control from the cell nucleus also influence them. They though inflammation and inflammatory biomarkers diet, and exercise affect them too. can make animals obese or thin. Mitochondria but exercise improves their function if done and hormones all affect mitochondrial function. synthesizing hormones like cortisol, estrogen, roles in both mental and metabolic health. everyone would laugh at me. Fortunately, others saying, 'Yes, it's mitochondria.' They are factors. Stress and trauma directly influence but if prolonged, they result in maladaptive Again, this is not new. It integrates a century disorder, was observed as common in families discovering insulin, we were injecting it into abnormalities in lactate and glucose metabolism in The mitochondrial theory of autism studies, like PET and SPECT scans, support the in 2000. Since then, there has been an exponential psychiatrists, and biotech companies. doors. It has to have predictive value. Time will been able to predict a lot of research I didn't is true, could marijuana affect mitochondria it, and sure enough, it was already published. I've gone through hundreds of I want to know what we can do for patients right healthcare--one that integrates metabolic health, already doing this, but the reality is, we go to a mental health professional, there's a you overweight and diabetic, increasing This isn't conspiracy theory; the risks What can we do now? First, I don't want to throw They really save lives. We need to keep using in mental health are diet, nutrition, And regarding medications, almost all, if not all, indirectly to metabolism and mitochondria. animal models of Prozac, which is not due to 20 years of evidence disproves this. These brain energy metabolism through oxidative Similarly, Celexa and Lexapro work by Lithium impacts the insulin signaling But while some medications enhance brain harm, like weight gain and diabetes. in treating mental illness? Let's consider some blockers, metformin, and SGTL-2 inhibitors, as drugs that also help with depression and substance interventions personalized for different patients. since the 1800s for type 2 diabetes and has in psychiatry. How does a diet stop it's a metabolic intervention for people who improves mitochondrial function, a process we call they often go off the diet after a Does it work? Yes. NIDA director Nora improves brain energy metabolism, reducing inflammation in the brain. In a study of bipolar remission. A study of treatment-resistant bipolar those on the ketogenic diet lost weight I'm now honored to be running a metabolic mental a global effort. We have research studies at as well as in various places around the world.