Are you free? Free to choose what you do unable to decide anything for yourself? You or at least what you'll have for breakfast. may force you to go through life as You experience free will all the time. Like when you decided to watch this video Free will is your ability to decide by yourself arena that you can shape with your actions. It's you are responsible for your actions, which There are too many dimensions for one short so we'll focus on the most essential Two main philosophical camps are fighting they'll be upset about it - so we'll use the very idea of free will is fundamentally You Are an NPC Whatever "you" exactly are, it's brain and body. And these are made of cells, which are made of proteins, which are made of So fundamentally, you are a specific, quite have no will, no motivation, no freedom, And we don't know why, but most laws means that things happen the way they do If you play pool and hit a ball at a specific exactly how all the balls on the table will everything. These laws completely decide the microscopic level things work very much and reactions affect all the particles in the that extends throughout time, from the past to the Now imagine that if, right after the looked at every single particle in the Just by applying the deterministic laws what all the particles in existence But if you are made of particles and what particles will do forever, then present and future were already Big Bang. That would mean there is a kind of You may feel like you make decisions, motions of the particles that make watch this video were decided 14 billion it happens. You're only witnessing how the But this can't be true because of quantum intrinsically random, not deterministic, and the quantum pool table, balls can go behavior isn't set by what came before But for the no-free-will camp, this doesn't quantum processes are random, they don't allow randomness for the things that fundamentally processes make the decisions for you. How? Say an electron can randomly go right or currents between your neurons that create a of actions that make you watch a youtube video. Just because the chain is extremely complex So maybe your fate was not decided at the Big important part is that it's not decided by you. Wow. This is kind of a bummer because the Except nooooooo, screams the free will side, this You Are The Main Character We know that we can reduce everything that guide them. While this makes physics feel like the there is a problem: You can't explain everything One key fact about reality that we can't quantum stuff is emergence. Emergence is new fundamental traits that didn't exist before. A drop of water is just a If you get water on your pants, they get are not wet. But your pants are definitely created something new that doesn't exist Emergence occurs at all levels of reality, atoms, molecules, cells, tissues, organs, you, and they'll create the next layer up. Every One Atom can't handle information, but many Molecules are not alive, but many of them can form complexity ladder the rules of what's possible more than the sum of their parts. And here the The layers of reality need each other to make cells with molecules and molecules you can't start with quantum particles and galaxies with quantum mechanics, This is not the whole story. Reality is not the layers are also largely independent of layer can influence each other and maybe seem to influence things much higher up or you don't need quarks. To understand politics, to explain things happening on one layer, you "Noooooooo" screams the no-free-will camp in frustration. "You can't just But the emergence argument doesn't invoke will in terms of determinism and fundamental like trying to explain galaxies by It is part of a reductionist school very successfully shaped science for a long So maybe, trying to understand free will deterministic laws and quantum question we should be asking is - which Well, just like no individual molecule creates to watch Youtube. But one layer up, your neurons does. On this layer all the things character, feelings, your fears and dreams. This but we know that you're here, right now. play off each other to make you who you are this layer of reality, you are part of the "you" are just one more physical cause of by your decisions and your decisions are shaped by You are not just witnessing how the actually taking part in it! And you see fit. At least this is how Conclusion and Opinion So who is right? Is there free will? We we think the argument for free will the complexity of the universe to the table. but at least for now it seems But even if we don't have free will, it's purposes. You and us, we humans, on a purely and that your decisions are yours to make. As feels like you are making decisions, what does have calculated the future at the big bang? nudges your cells one way or the other. Free In any case, now you can decide what to do more of our videos? It's your decision! Probably. At least you can pick which What you have really almost no control you in the news. Algorithms are constantly working show you, and alarmist headlines get amplified the sponsor of this video, can give you They gather related news articles from around the For example, last month the UK government Rwanda. This bill was widely covered by more using the Ground News Blindspot feed you can see the political spectrum - instead of one side Right leaning sources focused on the idea Channel despite the bill's attempt to act as a human rights groups' opposition to the bill. from all over the world, see how the story to engage in constructive dialogue Go to ground dot news slash nutshell to give it a 40% off the unlimited access plan. We think they free in your decision to stop scrolling, at To help you make the most of your that will take you on epic adventures