- The difficult truths but we all need to hear. So that's why we're here, to hear the difficult truths that we don't want to Truth number one, everything you believe to be completely and When I was younger, there were times that I believed I was gonna that I'd never get married, that a girl wouldn't even like me. There were times where I in math or physics, that I that I was gonna go to law school, that I would never live in that I'd never be a morning person. In every case, I was completely wrong. Intellectually, I went through phases where I was into Karl Marx, and Friedrich Hayek. Now I think they're all a (upbeat music) Take a minute and think about yourself five years ago. Chances are you can think of a few things that you were wrong about. Now, think about what in the world 10 years ago. Chances are you're cringing a little bit. It's funny 'cause we've of remembering the way we were or the things that we And we get embarrassed, we feel ashamed of how stupid we were. Yet none of us stopped to consider that the things that we are we're gonna feel the exact And in 10 years, we're gonna look back with the same embarrassment and disgust at the stuff that we think is true today, as the way we look back today at teenage Mark trying So the next time you maybe step back for a moment and think, is this one of those things that I'm gonna be embarrassed If the answer could be yes, then I don't know, maybe shut the fuck up. Truth number two, most they're just stupid. This definitely includes ourselves. A lot has been made about social media and how it affects our But I believe the most of social media is how And by moralizing, I to make good and evil A disagreement is when you but moralizing is when you for having the idea. This mass moralization has that I now believe something that I never would've thought that we probably need a little bit less morality in the world, not more. What I mean by that is that I think we should simply reserve judgment a little more often. Please refer back to truth number one, we don't know what the This truth is kind of a variation on something that's widely which says never attribute to malice what can be adequately But I'd like to add that I'll call Manson's Addendum, and pretty much everything you see or read is some degree of stupidity. If we take truth number one, that most of us are pretty much wrong about most of the things that we believe, and we combine that with Hanlon's Razor, which says that most of the things that we perceive to be evil are actually just ignorance and stupidity, well then it suggests that maybe we should be slower to moral After all, if we accept are wrong about most things, then we should reserve our morality for only situations that Take the pandemic, for example. It doesn't matter where your politics are. It doesn't matter which country you're in. It doesn't matter what your risk tolerances. You were horribly wrong about We all were. The experts were, the amateurs were, the conspiracy theorists Everybody got something at some point. Now you would think that a certain degree of but we know how that turned out. Truth number three, the highest leverage behavior is to care about people and In the 1930s, the psychiatrist started to collect data on a Now he collected everything. He tracked their financial situation, their family situation, where they lived, what whether they participated whether people they knew died, whether they moved to a sweet Everything you can imagine, this guy tracked over decades Now, while he was tracking all this data, he also asked them basic How happy are you? How satisfied are you with your life? Do you have a sense of How are your moods? Do you fucking hate your kids? At this point, as you can imagine, they've collected a lot of data. So what did Vaillant learn? Well, in 2004, he said over 70 years of psychological (majestic music) Fucking hair in my eye. Vaillant explained that over the decades, there was only one that consistently correlated to a person's happiness and wellbeing. It wasn't money, it wasn't prestige, it wasn't winning awards, it wasn't how fucking It was the quality of their relationships. And how do you cultivate Well, that's a big but basically, you learn and then you learn how to It's not fucking rocket science. It's a simple willingness and therefore a willingness So when it comes to general this is the highest leverage skill that you can build in your life, to learn to care about others, and to show them that you care. To build strong relationships, relationships built on trust, and mutual respect, to essentially care And yes, my friends, that is a real puppy and maybe we all need to hear it. This is Manson, out. (majestic music) (heavy metal music)