In the 1970s and 80s, the Soviet Union and they each survived for over 30 From time to time, someone will post to Reddit goes &quot;Nice&quot;. And yeah it is pretty cool that these took to build a machine capable of taking In this video, I want to look at the behind this stunning achievement. Sit back Let us first talk about Venus. I land on anywhere in the Solar System. Okay, Venus has been called Earth's evil twin. The planet that started off similar to the The two planets are close but the Venusian atmosphere is as This is due to a runaway greenhouse effect The Venusian surface gets hotter than Mercury's: The surface pressure is equivalent to being That thick atmosphere presents special challenges. used in lead acid batteries and as an atmospheric entry, where friction can The Americans put a dude on the Moon, but they The Soviets would eventually do it 5 times. But I am getting ahead of myself. Let us As the year was coming to a close, the Eleven launches to Venus. Eleven failures. The mission of the Venera project was to land a probe on the Venusian surface. wanted to outdo the Americans by piercing the sending a flyby probe to Venus that was scheduled For the Soviets, it was now or never. the whole Venera mission was transferred Venera 4's launch date was set Venera 4 was a hefty thing. It stood 11 feet essentially a bunch of instruments and a battery Venera 4 reached Venus in October 1967 The mother craft released and it entered the atmosphere. Temperatures hit The onboard instruments began analyzing The first recorded temperature 39 degrees Celsius. Atmospheric pressure But both measures began rising. And they kept It just kept going up. Far higher 93 minutes into the mission, with the probe still Venera 4 cracked open - likely near its at crush point showed 22 atmospheres and 530 By now, the American probe It flew past the planet and sent back data The Soviets and Americans compared their that Venus was a hotter, drier, far more As a great American once said, This realization required intense for Venera 5 and 6 already finalized there would be no time to make major to strengthen the landing probe and left 5 and 6 were sent on a mission and the results were similar. Venera 5 transmitted of 27 atmospheres and temperatures of 600 Venera 6 lasted for 51 minutes, but it had gotten the atmosphere before also getting crushed. With the 1970 launch window, the program directors were determined to make it to the And now they knew what it would take. 840 100 atmospheres. Burning, Venera engineers consulted submarine designers They sourced new materials to build it. And they Engineers wanted to maximize the amount so they modified the parachute When temperatures hit 390 degrees Fahrenheit / and the thing would fully open up to The lander was built in the shape of an egg. with as few ports, welds or The inside was lined with shock absorber Like with its predecessors, the chamber would After a 4 month journey, Venera 7 reached from the mother ship and descended into minutes through the atmosphere. The parachute at But six minutes into stage 2, the chute melted Venera 7 then unexpectedly hit or 60 kilometers an hour - It hit the Venusian ground (determined to be free-falling and bounced. The signal then abruptly Soviet engineers sadly thought But a few months later, radio re-discovered the signal, extremely weak As it turned out, Venera 7's bounce had misaligned side - weakening the signal to 1 or 3% strength. minutes in temperatures hot enough to melt zinc The data sent by Venera 7 (and Venera 8, a helped pave the way for a new It would not be until 1975 that the of Venera probes - 5 years after Venera 7. By then, Soviet engineers now knew what to expect, And that includes sending back black and probes' primary goal: Send back the first ever New rockets developed for propulsion probes than ever before. Venera 9 and 10 weighing 5 tons or 5,000 Venera 9 and 10 had an orbiter and the equipment designed to bring the capsule covered in an asbestos composite. It and split into half like a plastic easter egg - The lander was magnificently 2 meter) tall lander was essentially 2.6 feet or 80 centimeters wide with some hold the instruments and was bolted together of beryllium and electric fans would evenly The sphere's inside would be lined forgotten. They then wrapped the whole a honeycomb composite insulation On the bottom of the lander, they At the top, titanium disk that kind of looks an aerobrake that replaced the two-stage The way it works, the parachute entirely detached and the aerobrake does the Soviet engineers threw it out of an airplane Two cameras were placed in the middle of the and out into the horizon as far as possible. they were protected with a special The lander sent its image data - 512x128 pixels Maybe they should have set up a Starlink Scientists estimated with all of this, the entry Just one hour. But it would to send the full panorama, so I guess it was fine. Late October 1975, Venera 9 and Their parachutes cut at 50 kilometers as at around 15 miles or 25 kilometers per hour. Venera 9 landed first. Touching hill or the side of a volcanic crater, One of the two cameras succeeded in Scientists waited. Slowly, the data trickled the Venusian surface. What they saw were It might have looked like a These images traveled to us The sun was shining bright on Venus that and there was a gentle breeze blowing. A pleasant nearly water-less atmosphere, corrosive Venera 10 landed similarly a few days A rolling plain with hardened pieces of those Venera 9 saw. The acidic atmosphere Both probes transmitted for 50-60 minutes At that point, the temperatures inside the or 60 degrees Celsius. They could have kept The orbiters themselves later burned up in the Venera 9 and 10 were stunning triumphant public relations event for Venera 11 and 12 would go on to do some electric anomaly disabled their cameras, their of a disappointing follow up to the 9 and 10. But Kind of like the iPhone 11 as compared retained the core principles from the 9 Engineers improved the cameras, and added new heat-resistant technologies. down there. Guaranteed or your money back. The amazing thing was that many of these outside the spherical pressure chamber. Made of their placement is a testament to and experience with the Venera 13 arrived first, landing as planned. two photos. A first contingency photo of The photos showed a surface of pebbled, looking similar to the bottom of the ocean. In the distance, rolling plateaus and an orange so most things will look orange or yellowish. Venera 14's images showed a more weathered loose soil. Something like a baked cake. The because Venera 14's drill famously drilled The two probes held microphones and sent never really occurred to the Soviets at the You can probably find it on Reddit lens cap blowing off and the drill blowing wind with faint hints of distant An amazing Soviet achievement. But touch the Venusian surface. Venera 15 and 16 thereafter mapping the The last Venera landers were built in the 1980s. Space programs since then have shifted to the reason for this. No human is ever going But it is possible to send another lander what to expect and that it can be done. The The problem is of course There is something weird about into a thing that survives less than a day. And by proposals have been things like balloons and To make the economics work for a lander, you move around and last for weeks on end. The are, to put it lightly, a few years away. Much of the secret work done during the But there are some interesting developments that might make a return trip possible. video if this one does well. Let's say 700 likes? Regardless the Venera series was and in my opinion represented the I loved researching every bit of this.