Amna: Welcome to the newshour. With just 20 days until election day, for both 2024 presidential candidates, the battle is on, to find and reach the few remaining voters who can still be persuaded. Geoff: Vice president Kamala Harris and former president Donald Trump held events today to try and broaden their appeal. Here is Lisa Desjardins. Lisa: Former president Donald Trump digging in at a fox town hall, repeating that other Americans are the enemy and making a declaration unprecedented in modern times. He would use the military to quash dissent. Mr. Trump: It is the enemy from within. They are very dangerous. They are marxists and communists and fascists. Lisa: He made these comments on Sunday. Mr. Trump: The bigger problem are the people from within P it should be very easily handled if necessary by the military. Lisa: Those words vice president Harris has called unhinged. Vp. Harris: Donald Trump is increasingly unstable and as has been said by the people who works closely with him even when he was president, he is unfit to be president of the united States. Lisa: This as trump was aiming to reach across the gender gap in front of an all woman audience where trump face questions on reproductive rights, claiming to be pro-ivf despite Republicans recently blocking ivf legislation at the U.S. Capitol. On abortion, the man responsible for overturning roe V. Wade says he now thinks some red states have gone too far with restrictions. Mr. Trump: They are too tough and those are going to be redone because already, there is a movement in those states. Lisa: He faces a voting gender gap. Men support the former president by 16 points but women back his opponent by 14 points. The hunt for votes meant reaching across the aisle. Vp. Harris: No matter your party , no matter who you voted for last time, there is a place for you in this campaign. Lisa: In Pennsylvania, a nearly must win for her, Harris appeared with nearly 100 Republicans who disavowed Donald Trump. Her message was for conservatives and others unhappy with the former president. Vp. Harris: The coalition we have built has room for everyone who is ready to turn the page on the chaos and instability of Donald Trump. Lisa: With it came broader symbolism. The event was near the site where George Washington famously crossed the Delaware river during the revolutionary war. The president who urged voters to choose country over politics. Vp. Harris: To compose the constitution of the united States, that work was not easy. The founders often disagreed, often quite passionately. In the end, the constitution of the United States laid out the foundations of our democracy. And now, the baton is in our hands. Lisa: The vice president's courtship of those outside her party continues tonight when she sits down for an interview with that there -- Brett. Today, jd Vance also stopped in Pennsylvania. The swing state will see all four candidates this week as he campaigned for 2024. He was asked about 2020 and why he has not admitted trump lost. He gave a new response, fueling the lie that trump won. Sen. Vance: Did Donald Trump lose the election? Not by the words I would use, ok? Lisa: In Georgia, the first day of early voting on Tuesday shattered records there with over 300,000 ballots cast. State election officials say they expect another potential record today. In polling places, the enthusiasm was palpable. &gt;&gt; This was the most important voting season of our lifetime. It is imperative that every single person vote to save democracy. &gt;&gt; I think this is an existential election and it will have implications for my children and three grandsons and more to come. Lisa: In Georgia, two court rulings blocked efforts by Republican officials to change the rules in the state. One ruling barred election officials from refusing to certify the results and another said no to making the state can't the final ballots by hand. Double-double decisions --