Hey Crazies. I've said several times that "Light doesn't few of you. For most of you, the issue seems to be: Why wouldn't light have it too? Or sometimes: Doesn't that require mass? All of which are fair questions, but I think who gave the question some useful context. Most of the light arriving on Earth from space Outer Space! comes from the Sun. You know, that big glowy ball at the center In the core of that Sun, Nuclear fusion is More details on fusion in an upcoming video. Every 4 protons comes together to make 1 Helium But 4 protons have more mass than 1 Helium About 50 electrons worth of mass, which is Since lots of those fusion reactions are happening the Sun is losing mass at a rate of 4.3 billion That's 3 million Jettas per second! Which might leave you wondering: Where did all that mass go? It was released as light. No, seriously. Light is like the exhaust of the Sun, yet How cool is that?! But how can mass be lost as light, if light E equals mc squared. It's energy. No no, haven't you said this? Energy doesn't disappear or start floating around on its own it goes into atoms, molecules, and particles. Right, that energy is contained by the photons But didn't you also say this?! There is no difference between mass and energy. Oh crap, that is a problem. If mass and energy are equivalent, then anything Light has energy, so it should also have mass. Wait, wait, hold on a second. We need to be really careful about the word We don't want to get it all muddled up with Hmm, let's start with how we perceive mass. Because of General Relativity, we know light which certainly makes it look like it has Light can also create gravity. If you have enough of it, you can even create It's called a Kugelblitz. But relativity basically throws mass out the Gravity is the result of curved space-time pressure, and/or stress; Honestly though, because of E equals mc squared, Agh! OK, we also know the more massive something is, change how it's moving. That's what we call inertia, which we covered Light doesn't ever change its motion. It always travels in straight lines at a very Fast! Fast! So it has infinite inertia and, therefore, Wait, that can't be right. Hold on! We know light has energy because it has to inside the Sun. Conservation of energy shall not be violated! Momentum is more closely related to inertia, but we know light has that too because it The light collides with the blades and gives which makes the blades spin. So light must have momentum of momentum, either. Whoa, crisis averted. But it has some though? Well, yes and no. When you think of your own mass, you think It's something you have even when you're but light doesn't ever sit still. Ever! It's physically impossible for light so you can't just equate the two concepts. But... but... but.... E equals mc squared? Okay, we'll take a closer look at it. It's probably the most famous equation of Except, it's kind of a lie. It actually looks like this, from an old Latin word meaning "to go." If the thing isn't moving, the equation If instead there's no mass, the equation which applies perfectly to light, so light Some people want E to equal mc squared so where this "m" is a rest mass But that's kinda silly. It's much easier just to forget about mass and use energy and momentum instead. Theoretical physicists did it a long time So, let me know in the comments. Are you satisfied with this answer? mass and relativistic mass? Thanks for liking and sharing this video. Don't forget to subscribe if you'd like to And until next time, remember, it's OK to In the last video, we learned why the planets Comment response time! Jesse LaJeunesse asked if galaxies were just Yep, they are. I can understand how you might think the physics But, if it makes you feel any better, that's You'll notice galaxy clusters aren't disks. The shape of the large-scale universe is controlled not by conservation of momentum. Nunya Bisnass was wondering why the plane to the Sun's magnetic field. As it turns out, the rotation of the Sun is which shouldn't be that much of surprise since it was all rotating together to begin with. But the Sun's magnetic field is generated How those currents behave is dependent on so the magnetic field of the Sun tends to be Something that's actually true of planets as well. Amy Soderstrom and Megan Gilmore were wondering the gas cloud in the first place. Anything with lots of mass will create gravity, including a very thin gas cloud. It might not be very dense, but it's big It contained all the mass that will form the That's a lot of mass no matter how dense it is, so the cloud itself creates the gravity that To answer K8UR Channel's questions: Yes, But, no, they're not all parallel. We've seen a lot of them with telescopes, they form, but we see them A lot of them have stars at their center, stars orbiting some common center of mass. It depends on the complex details. Ok, crazies. The next video is the 100th video. It might not be until early November though. There's a lot going on with me right now. There are more details on my most recent Vlog. Click anywhere on my face or the mobile card Yeah, in case you didn't know, I have a Anyway, thanks for watching! And I'll see you for the 100th. You can model light as having mass in materials But you can also model a bubble as having because it goes up instead of down. Yeah, wrap your head around that!