Have you been feeling lazy, low energy, and unmotivated? Maybe you just can't seem to get off your phone and do what you should be doing. Maybe you recognize that you're procrastinating way too hard, but you can't seem to stop. It's like you have this internal battle where you know you have to stop being lazy, but your body isn't responding to your mind. If you're finally ready to make a change and become more motivated, productive, and disciplined, watch on. Hello, my loves. Welcome back to Lavendaire. It's Aileen. So today's video is for anyone who's ready to exit their lazy girl era. So you wanna stop being lazy, stop procrastinating so much, and you're ready to become more motivated, disciplined, and productive in your life. So I'll be sharing 10 ways for you to stop feeling so lazy all the time. Number one, create a positive energy routine and do it daily. So a positive energy routine is a routine of activities that give you energy. These are things that boost your mood and make you feel good. So it could be anything from listening to upbeat music, going for a walk, exercising, dancing, even meditation, journaling, things that give you that good feeling like you feel centered, you feel positive. Ask yourself what are your favorite activities that give you energy, boost your mood, and make you feel good? Make a list of two or three that you can do every single day and then implement that as part of your morning routine. If you don't know where to start, try this. Go for a walk outside for 15 minutes and for that entire 15 minute walk, repeat thoughts of gratitude and positive affirmations to yourself. You get that exercise, you get that exposure to nature outside of your normal environment, and you are working on your mind. You're building a positive mindset through positive affirmations and a gratitude practice. I highly recommend you do these positive energy activities as part of your morning routine. But you can also do these anytime throughout the day. Like if you feel like you're in a lull and you've been feeling really lazy, and it's the afternoon, then kickstart that positive energy routine. It'll bring fresh energy and you'll just feel more upbeat and energized. Number two, eliminate distractions. So where do you go when you are avoiding your work? Most of us are probably scrolling our phones. We're on social media or maybe we're watching TV, or we're just like spacing out somewhere. Maybe we turn to our fridge and we look for something to eat. Recognize where you are turning to for distractions from what is really important in your life, and then eliminate or reduce those distractions. So if you are always like turning on your TV, literally like hide your remote or something. If you're always going to your phone, put your phone in a drawer, like turn it off. Literally shut off your phone and hide it in a drawer so that you can focus on your work. You have to take control of your distractions or else they will take control of you and your life. Number three, create a productive workspace. So you want to make sure that you're designing your space so that it makes easy for you to do your work. You wanna design it so that it naturally fosters focus and creativity. If your space is a mess or if you don't have all the tools that you need to get started, you're less likely going to start. Try to make your space feel more inviting and exciting to work in. This is why some people like to decorate their space, make it aesthetic so that they want to be in that space, and then make sure that you have everything that you need right there. This is why I like to keep all of my tools like within arm's reach so that it's easier for me to just turn on a camera, turn on my lights, and start filming. Whenever I have to do podcasts or whenever I have meetings, I have my mic and my camera on my desk so that I'm ready to just plug it in and turn it on. The act of taking out all my gear and setting it up every single time I need it is already wasting time. So I just leave it out, I put it in arm's reach so that I could just like turn it on, turn it on. Boom, I'm ready to go. And on that note, I wanna take a break and thank Dropbox for sponsoring today's video. As a content creator, content management and reducing chaos are extremely important for my productivity. It's essential to keep my digital workspace organized. I have to be able to access my files from multiple devices and also be able to share them easily with my team. I've been using Dropbox for years and I absolutely love it. Dropbox recently launched the new Dropbox Essentials plan and it's a game changer. Dropbox Essentials is an all in one platform that gets you three terabytes of storage, a hundred gigabytes of file transfer, video recording and editing capabilities, and more for only $18 a month. A couple of their standout capabilities include unlimited e-signatures and you can build up to five of your own reusable templates, which saves a ton of time for faster contract drafting and signing. This is useful for getting quick signatures from my team for text forms or contracts. They also have PDF editing where you can annotate text, highlight, or fill in a form all within Dropbox. Another feature I love is send and track so I can securely share files and maintain control of downloads and access to those files. This is huge, especially because I often work with large files. I also like the ability to see real time analytics on my files, like when the file was opened and how much time viewers spent on the page. With Dropbox Essentials, you can eliminate chaos with one product. Instead of jumping from app to app, you have all the tools you need in one integrated platform. Moving on to number four, master goal setting and prioritization. So you wanna get really good at setting clear and achievable goals and also knowing how to prioritize your goals, as well as knowing how to prioritize your tasks. Most people, they just go with the flow. Maybe they're working on tasks that aren't really that important, it's just busy work. So you have to know how to prioritize and focus on the most important things, the most impactful thing. This is how you can achieve more by doing less and that is the art of working smart. So if you wanna learn more about that, I have plenty of videos on goal setting and prioritizing your life, so I'll post those here and down below. Number five, learn the art of task batching and time blocking. So, task batching is simply batching similar tasks together and time blocking is blocking a specific amount of time to do that task. The idea is it is much more effective and efficient to stay in one type of task so that your brain is on the same wave length and you go into this flow state that is like rolling from momentum versus trying to switch from this type of task to that type of task and this and that, and then take a break to run errands and come back and try to finish this task. Each time your brain switches from one task to another, it loses like 20% efficiency. Like there is this time where your brain has to calm down from the previous task and start up for the next task. So you're losing this brain power and you're losing some energy, you're losing time. So in order to optimize your workflow, design your calendar around time blocking for task batching. So for example, I might block out one whole day for filming videos and recording and then I would block out another day for planning and writing and emails and so on. Number six is to remember to practice positive self-talk. If you are always saying negative things about yourself or feeling guilty for being lazy and just making yourself feel even worse, that's not helping anyone. So you have to start cultivating a more positive mindset. Say nicer positive things to yourself. I love you, I support you, it's okay. Like be gentle on yourself. If you fall off, if you are being lazy, it's okay. Give yourself love and support. Like I empower you, I encourage you, I know you can do it, I know you can be strong, I know you can be disciplined. I know you can commit. Positive self-talk is so powerful. That is how you're gonna change your identity and therefore change your actions, and therefore change your life. So catch and cut out any negative self-talk and replace all of those negative thoughts with positive ones. Moving on, tip number seven is to set better boundaries. So if you are the type of person that gets pulled in all directions because people are asking so much of you and you feel like you have to say yes, you feel like you just wanna be nice so you end up saying yes even though you actually don't wanna help, you have to learn to set better boundaries. You have to start prioritizing yourself, your needs, and what your priorities are. You begin to set better boundaries. Once you are more aware of yourself and your needs, like you know yourself better, you know what you want better, and you know what really matters to you that way you can prioritize that. And also when you become to grow more confident in yourself, the more confident you are in yourself, the easier it is to say no to things that don't align with what you wanna do because you are putting yourself first and you're confident in that. I see this as a journey of learning to own your own power and to stand strong in yourself. When you are able to do that, then all the energy gets like honed in you and so that you can be your most effective, productive, motivated person versus you like giving your energy to everyone else and helping others and depleting yourself. In the end, you are not even moving forward towards your own goals because you've been helping everyone else move towards their goals. So you wanna bring back the power to yourself and learn to set better boundaries around that. Number eight, establish healthy lifestyle habits. This one is such a basic but it really is important because we all need to have like a healthy baseline of habits that support us in our everyday lives. Things like getting enough sleep, eating well, exercising well. So doing all the things that so that your body is healthy and has the right amount of energy to do things. When we get really busy, we tend to forget about our self-care. We tend to stop eating well, we stop, tend to like sacrifice our sleep because we're trying to get more done because we're so busy, right? The more you sacrifice those healthy habits, the less energy you have in life. So even though you're trying to work more 'cause you're trying to do all the things on your to-do list, you're actually losing energy and you're taking more time to do those things because you're not investing in your self-care. Like if you were to give yourself time to do all of those healthy habits, then doing all of those things would put you in the right mindset and have the right energy to then work on all the things that are important. You would have more energy to work to your to-do list after getting good sleep, after eating well after exercising. So, people tend to like forget that. They forget that your health and your energy really is the most important thing and it's the thing that you shouldn't sacrifice if you wanna stay productive and motivated and disciplined. Tip number nine, stay consistent by tracking. If you're trying to make a change in your life, you're more likely going to stay consistent if you track your progress. So, create a system for you to track your habits and track your progress as you're trying to change your life. This could be as simple as a habit tracker. We have one in our workbook. All it is is a grid where you write down your habits and then you check off each day that you do that habit. You can track this on Notion. I have a lot of different things that I wanna do every single day related to self-care and healthy habits. By tracking your progress, you're more likely to feel that you are making a real effort and that the change is real, like it's more set in stone. There are days where you'll forget to do them and you might fall off, you might forget for a whole week and you might not even recognize like how often you're actually staying on track if you're not keeping track of them. Write it down and that way you can actually have data to see your progress and to work off of. My last tip for you today is to remember to celebrate all of your small wins. So as you are on this journey to changing who you are, changing your identity, changing your habits, changing your mindset, understand that that journey is not always linear. You're gonna feel good sometimes, you're gonna be doing great, and then you might fall off. Life gets in the way, something happens but what will keep you going is if you have the mindset of appreciating and celebrating all the small wins that you make along the way, rather than feeling like you're not there until you reach perfection. Because the truth is perfection is an ideal, it's not always reality. Celebrates all of your small wins and all of the progress that you have along the way because all of that matters. Change doesn't happen overnight but if you give yourself these boosts of motivation by celebrating your small wins, then you're essentially like giving yourself more and more energy to persevere on this path just to keep going. The secret to making positive change is to truly keep going. Just set your mind on the goal and keep working towards it. No matter how long it takes, you will get there. All right, now it's your turn to share in the comments down below, what is the next step that you're gonna take this week to exit your lazy girl era? So, is it creating a positive energy routine? Is it tracking your habits? Like which of the tips from today was your favorite that inspired you? Which one are you gonna implement this week? Comment down below, I'd love to hear it. And that's it for today. Sending you so much love, and I will see you in the next one. Bye. (relaxing music)