- Three of the top 10 places to live in the world are in Spain with over 300 sunny days a year. It's no wonder 5 million If you are thinking of making then this video is for you because I'll be going through to live in Spain for expats, If we haven't met yet, my name's Kristin. I've been helping people relocate abroad for the last 20 years and I've also traveled so if you're new here, and let's jump right in. In 10th place, Murcia known as one of the best seaside towns in Spain. Murcia is one of the country's It's called Europe's of cultivating fruit, flowers, olive oil and wine, which are exported to major Spanish cities as Europe, north Africa, Murcia is one of the more to live in Spain, especially The prices there are lower and Valencia, and you can 500 euro per month. Food is also pretty affordable as well with a plate at a local A real estate company called survey in Spain and found that this area profitable place to invest in the country. So if you're looking for real estate, this is a good option for you. Just be prepared for a pretty your AC from May to September Check out the beach of Palaya De La Llana, which is only 48 minutes of less than 500,000 people. A lot of foreigners living there say that it feels more like living They also say that the locals and expats alike who and it's pretty easy to make friends. The friendly people of living also makes Murcia top choice for international students to study abroad. The city has both private and public universities, but of course with anywhere you move, learning the local language better on the downside. Murcia is known as one of the hottest and driest regions in that's very prone to droughts Ninth on our list, Valencia in the world for expats to live, and it's easy to see why as a perfect city that is not too crowded, but not too boring. You've got a beautiful city center with a lot of things to do. It's not as expensive and you also have the Valencia also holds some of Spain's biggest annual a five day festival to For some people the Las Falla time of year is not their favorite and commotion, but throughout you'll have plenty of time to Speaking of food, Valencia Spain's famous rice and seafood dish. Here you can attend the world's year or choose to eat from one of 36 Michelin star restaurants. The city is also quite walkable with convenient public transport and easy to get around, to larger cities like Barcelona. There are also nice parks to and many open spaces. On the downside, Valencia that it's actually affecting and it's becoming more crowded. On one hand, you have local Spaniards who are moving there from to the lower cost of living and also reportedly to escape some of the political instability there. Then you have all of the foreigners and expats, especially around and Germany as well as the US and Canada who are attracted to the warm sunny weather there, which has also driven up prices. Prices for housing have even 50% in recent years, and some apartments that used to go for 500 euro per month could With some reports that I saw that they couldn't find that was nice and nice areas or 1500 euro per month. Landlords have also become a bit skeptical of short-term vacation renters, and so if they have long-term then they might want you to sign a lease of one year or more. For help finding a flat, of Valencia's rental agencies or make a post in Facebook groups such as expats in Valencia. While the sunny days attract it's also hot in the summers, so a lot of people recommend living and spring, or at least finding a place with air conditioning. And while Valencia are and this has long been a to integrate, there have been due to the large number and also the higher cost of living. The next city on our list was place to live in the world who participated in the And what people like the most moderate cost of living, which comes in around $2,000 per month, and the high quality of life. This is a really special part of Spain where you have the beach and good food and restaurants mixed with culture. Malaga has some of the best of 40 museums in one small town located on Spain's Costa Del Sol. Malaga is also the former of Picasso. So if you envision yourself enjoying art galleries and culture than Malaga could be, your paradise ranked the to work and play. Malaga has miles of coastline making it and a great place to soak up Malagas urban beach. La Malagueta is impeccably and shaded areas to nap, but if you want a good as Malaga is a popular and popular beaches such for a more relaxing, less crowded area. Check out Playa Penon. When it comes to the cost of around $2,000 per month, but AC that actually puts it as the fifth most expensive That being said, depending you could still find it quite affordable. This is an area where you for 100,000 euro and a meal at a restaurant around 25 euro. Like many cities in Spain, and also workers for all of the different industries there has put upward pressure on prices. It seems like the housing as Portugal and many places around the world has So everywhere you go but it certainly seems like a lot of people have found a home What I like about it is that of the town where you can go and then you also have and that's not something To connect with people in Malaga, check out the expats in With more than 80,000 members, Learning a second language When I learned Spanish, to live in places like here in Miami and also to travel to some of my favorite countries and of course Spain. If you've been wanting to Rosetta Stone's method helps I especially like their which helps you read, listen, and speak the words all while learning more about the culture. Rosetta Stone's phrase books are perfect for helping you brush up before your next trip. You can choose from topics like health safety and more. Whether you're looking forward to chatting with your new neighbors at the market, ordering a delicious paella or even talking with your learning the local language You can get more than 50% off of any single language right now by using the link below this video. Or if you'd like access to all of the Rosetta Stone for more than 60% off or by clicking on this QR code right here. Start your journey to and thanks to Rosetta Stone for partnering with me on this video. Two hours northwest of Malaga is number Seville or Sevija, the largest Once the seat of the Spanish by the Moors for centuries walking around, you'll still see signs of including the Alcazar and neighborhoods with mosaics and walls. You might even recognize some Wars and Game of Thrones. If you are a history buff, then Seville could be the place for you. The history there is one of tourist visit each year, and despite all the people coming and going, it's still the If you are a night owl, you'll appreciate the late to offer with more bars and clubs per capita than any other city. In Europe, people stay out and drinking, and the pedestrian and filled with people. It's a place that feels secure day and night except in some and Las 3000. And if you don't live then Seville offers and Uber's a plenty. Seville is a good place for to the beach, but like places like Malaga and also Murcia on our list today, the temperatures can get very of 40 degrees Celsius or So this is another place to get some air conditioning. While there are parts of with speaking only English, Seville is not the best place for that. So you'll wanna brush up on or while you're there. And also some expats have had or difficult it is to make friends there. So learning a bit of Spanish If you're looking for a with good infrastructure, and lots of things to do, consider Seville Number six, A Coruna In Spain's breezy northwest, of Zara, A Coruna but the fashion industry A Coruna an economic powerhouse. Professionals in finance, and even fishery enjoy the for a city of under 250,000 people. It's one of Spain's highest gdps per capita, and surprisingly, the cost for Spain with rental of Madrid similar to of living in this area is but some locals report being 1400 Euro per month, and they say that about half of their income goes Fortunately, food is and you can still pick up or two Euro each being You won't just hear but also Galician or Gallego, the area's If you'd like to learn Gallego, you can take language classes school, which provides lessons in Galician and 11 other languages. And while Coruna is not known as the most beautiful port city in Spain, there are some notable landmarks to enjoy. The Tower of Hercules is the the world and nearby you can that overlook the Atlantic and peer out at the millennium obelisk, a pyramid shaped structure to weather, the good and bad news, about A Coruna is that as other parts of Spain in So if you're looking for cooler for you, but it's also that it's situated right on the Atlantic. So keep that in mind if you're because some people say that the rain and A Coruna can be downright depressing. Another downside is that of a concrete jungle. It doesn't have as many and parks as some other cities in Spain. So if you wanna get into nature, you might have to leave town. And likewise, it's not as So if you're thinking then you might have a little It could get a little bit more complex and more expensive bigger hub in Spain. If you are curious about living in A Coruna, check out neighborhoods Riazor on the coast and Los Coming in at number five on Islands, which has amazing that hover between 65 and This set of islands is but still Spanish territory. If you've seen photos of before, you know they're with active volcanoes, and endless opportunities You'll always have things to do and the canaries, the canaries are made up of seven different islands, and feel, but there are as destinations for expats, foreigners, and also for tourists. The four most popular Fuerteventura, and Lanzarote. Tenerife is the largest and Archipelago and also has It's the most visited island and British expats in where you'll find close to of the sunny skies. Many long and short term so if your Spanish isn't and if you're planning then Tenerife has six bilingual I've been to Tenerife a couple of It's so peaceful and quiet and especially out on the But digital nomads are especially the Las Palmas of good infrastructure for remote work and also a lot of co-living Las Palmas is famous for surfers and is also the most of different landscapes, although it does help to and see everything. Fuerteventura is the most untouched of It has the wildest nature and beaches that can make person in the world. The high winds there also for the world championships Lanzarote is the eastern most island and is considered the most peaceful and quiet of the four right challenging to find accommodation on. It has some of the fewest such as Iisa for the region, even though living in the and it is island living For one island fever is a real thing, and although it's very nice there, after some time, you might to the mainland more and more often. So this is another cost to although the good news is discounts on flights and ferries, but if you're looking for then definitely add a little for extra travel costs. Finally, the Canaries aren't for work in Spain, especially if you're While most jobs are in tourism or the service industry, locals have a hard time finding work there and say there's a lot of intense competition for paid positions. Up in Spain's Basque country, nature and city collide in San Sebastian just 12 miles from the of Spain's premier tourism destinations. You'll fall in love with San in the city center and its What I personally love about and walking that you can do, the Camino de Santiago's through the coastline of this area, and it's just simply beautiful. You get stunning views and also amazing sunsets. This area also has a mild as the south and not as The city's population balloons Europe's longest running and when the tourists head it's the start of the city's where many notable films such as Star Wars have made their debut. Considering these cultural events and the close proximity to France, San Sebastian is a fine place of going there, popular places Antigua, Gros and Amara. If you are a foodie, then San for you with one of the highest number of Michelin star restaurants One of my favorite things to the city's alleyways. Just walk around and and restaurants to get some tapas or panchos as they're called there. The San Sebastian however, a simple bachelor month plus utilities, and when it comes to groceries, the bill can be 20% higher of the same size. San Sebastian is also known to integrate into the local community. There is a small expat community there, but I saw some complaints that the locals were a bit and snobby, although to be honest, you can find complaints like this about everywhere in the world. So it's something to take It's going to be a challenge country, but with time and patience and a little bit of the language, you can make it your new home. Another thing to keep in mind is that the taxes are different to the rest of Spain, that you hire a good accountant. Number three, Sotogrande Andalusia next on our list because it's a primarily expat community, and that is Sotogrande. So if you're looking for western style condos and easy access to golf and sailing, then this Many of the world's elite your next door neighbors could or former British Prime and you might even spot a Prices to buy and rent property here are with studios starting and luxury condos and villas from 1500 to 5,000 not everyone in Sotogrande is rich. Many average earning expats and condos to buy can even Although Sotogrande can for being a bit elite and snobby, a lot of the that the people there are actually very friendly and down to earth. Many expat families because of its excellent schools. The area's seven international rates and test scores. You can choose between an all and many even follow a UK curriculum, but the wait times to get and also daycares can of people joking online that you need to join the waiting list as This is another area where but it might not all be There's a lot of manufactured and also places like and so that's something depending on the type of surroundings that you're looking for. So if you prefer a more organic or wild nature experience, then check out the next place on my list. Number two on our list today is a full region, and this is a good place to escape some of the summer crowds and heat of southern Spain Asturias is known as Green hilly landscapes and forests. It's also somewhere where including dry and rainy seasons. Living in Asturias means cool summers and mild winters with more It's also known for its nearby ski resorts and national parks that have some of the best mountains in the country. It's no wonder that this of El Camino de Santiago's The primitive way. This area to its Celtic influence. It kind of could remind and there are a lot of different places to live throughout the to larger cities and towns. Gijon is the largest of of population sitting seaside, and also local exports. It's a university town with where furnished flats can Aviles just next door is a It's smaller and less pricey than Gijon and an excellent option Oviedo though is also a small for the primitive way. Transplants in this area of the town in 45 minutes and get by with only basic Spanish. One drawback to living here and industrious area, which has had some and environment, although the steps to reduce emissions. At the same time, these affected jobs in the area to leave in favor of job which has also impacted the average age of the local population. Girona, just 40 minutes you'll find Girona a charming kalan of old and new with gothic by modern condos. Separating the old and new parts of this city is lined with colorful facades and houses stacked neatly One thing that attracts people to hi is that it's actually something with Lance Armstrong. Even once training here. Since then, thousands and triathletes have moved to hi to train or simply enjoy its car friendly This boom in cycling, tourism and expats has created quite and professional trainers that of business opportunities. But you don't have to be a This is an area known of nice walking trails, and also potentially some Because it's a university town, there's always something going on. Festivals of all types with where you can cheer along There's also an annual The temps, the floors where and even small alleyways of fresh flowers. Girona has a pretty large of the population being So you can find a lot of and this is an area where you'd of Spanish as well as Catalan. When it comes to cost of but it's not the most expensive either. It's about 15% lower and you're also close to Barcelona, so you can also take the But let me know which of these places are you most and if you want some then you can /relocation. Make sure to watch these videos next so you can find out the as well as neighboring Portugal.