Tesla on the company's new agreement with car rental A few months out of bankruptcy said it's going to order Tesla model threes. Those purchases total value of about $4.2 billion. In October 2021, Hertz publicly announced it intended 100,000 Tesla vehicles. Shares of both companies soared. Check out shares of Tesla soaring to all time highs club for the first time. First mover advantage aside, it would help Hertz industry plagued by commoditization, where the color seems to be the only differentiator. If you or I went to the airport and we went to the counter, we're still going to get the same white Only a couple of years in. While the rental company is posting strong finances, facing some serious challenges pricing troubles, costs, and low resale values. There's no technology change. Evs included, that run a straight line without some And that's this. The line from A to B is not always straight. Meanwhile, big rental rivals hung back on EVs. Hertz's investors are divided over what to do next. Either kill or at least pause the EV initiative, or way to make it work. Hurts a more than century old rental company, filed May 2020 as demand for rentals dried up during the before the pandemic. Hertz had a number of challenges. Sales grew from about $7.6 billion in 2010 to a peak of about $11 billion in 2014, but fell to $9.8 billion in 2019. Pre-bankruptcy the stock had been highly volatile, $109.48 in 2014, and sank as low as $3.07 the day before Hertz filed. In addition to the Hertz rental brand with stands at garages, the company has a number of other businesses, sales, truck, van and equipment rentals, and a leasing It also acquired the Dollar and Thrifty brands in The company operates in 160 countries and 13 months after filing for chapter 11, the company unveiling big plans. When you're coming out of a process like that, you need Uh, people want to know what your what your strategy Some moves were expected securing more corporate American Express, cleaning up its dollar, and thrifty underinvestment, and a pledge to focus more on cost But the big move was its plan to buy 100,000 Teslas, model three sedans, for its US and European It also planned to set up about 3000 fast chargers for markets. Both Tesla and Hertz share prices popped on Hertz jumped 10% over the previous close, and over the whopping 29%. Tesla shares rose 12.7% on the day over the previous another 14.4% through November 2nd, the day Tesla CEO Musk took to Twitter to break some news. They didn't have a fleet deal. They didn't have a special contract with Tesla. And Elon Musk led all the excitement kind of go viral clarified that Hertz didn't have a fleet contract with He added that he was surprised by the stock pop, since zero effect on Tesla's economics, according to its 10-K. Hertz has large scale acquisition agreements Polestar and General Motors, but the company neither details with CNBC at the time of the filing. The goal was to convert one quarter of Hertz's fleet Hertz doesn't break out the amount of money it spends In 2022, the company ended the year with 428,700 in the Americas and 118,700 international 9% of its fleet, or about 49,266 vehicles, were Teslas. This isn't perfect, but if you assume Hertz paid about average for each Tesla, as some analysts who follow $2.5 billion in Tesla vehicles alone. That doesn't include any other infrastructure or 2022. Overall, globally, it spent $10.6 billion on new that year. This EV strategy really was the one that kind of took guess, kind of affiliated with that, that became kind market and something that a lot of folks kind of kind seems like a really interesting story. I'm going to follow this. These three car rental firms control about 95% of the Hertz was the only one to make an EV push. This big Hertz intention was to be a first mover. The industry has received some pressure to green its that it would help its corporate customers to. Large organizations around the globe, really are in choosing EVs for their employees. It really helps them to meet their own ESG goals. And we see a lot of, um, you know, corporate demand here in North America as well as in Europe. Hertz also saw an opportunity to introduce EVs to but reluctant to commit to a purchase outright. In the leisure space. There is also a lot of organic demand, certainly for who are perhaps curious about whether or not an EV lifestyle. And so choosing an electric vehicle like a is something that we see, and we see situations where are choosing, you know, an EV both for long road trips as well as for. Short, shorter drives. In 2016, Hertz struck a partnership with Uber to start burning vehicles to rideshare drivers. Hertz considered the electrification of rideshare a requirement, not merely an option. New York City's Green Rides program requires 100% of trips to be either zero emissions or wheelchair Despite an investment of at least $2.5 billion, the from corporate and private customers has not Consumers generally, um, you know, still have a little range and some of the, you know, know how when it EVs. And to that end, that has really informed our around building resource and really helping with that Demand that did arise tended to come from customers who owners. What has worked sort of is the ride sharing business. As of December 2022, 65 to 70% of the EVs in Hertz's fleet were utilized by rideshare They didn't want those things sitting around their very world to Hertz, right, to to say, hey, we're we're extend our, our normal ride share rental program, and into it and other EVs. I mean, I think from my perspective, Hertz and Uber has I think that Uber really needs Hertz, and Hertz really Harry Campbell is the founder and CEO of The Rideshare website and podcast dedicated to Uber and Lyft There's really no better use case in my mind than an put 1500 miles a week on their car to not only rent a vehicle. Renting to rideshare companies is cost effective. There's a one week minimum, and costs of turning a The challenge, though, is that Hertz gets about $43 75 to $90 it gets for a consumer or corporate rental. There's also been a disproportionate number of While Hertz says routine maintenance costs on EVs are cost of repairing the damage from accidents is twice combustion vehicle. This is partly a Tesla problem. A lot of their critics will say, meaning they've grown vehicles on the road without investing enough service overreliance on their mobile service fleet to fix And so you'll see these long wait times to get, you You'll see long wait times to even get an appointment. That's that's only one tiny piece of why EVs are In order to buffer some of the higher repair costs, the them in-house while also negotiating for cheaper Hertz expects costs will drop over time. However, repair costs have not come down as fast as expected. In another move to try to limit damage and costs, the company shifted some of its EVs meant for business, but this left a glut of unused cars in that and lowered revenue. The collapse of used EV values is another problem. They've fallen about 30% between September 2022 and 2023. The main reason Tesla, which controls more than the new EV market, drastically cut prices on its cars, of everything else. This is important because about every two years, market. The mSRP is on. The cars Hertz bought has since dropped by about a The opportunity to dump the car, so to speak, is not and frankly speaking, not one that I would take. There's positive margin to be had in the existing by our price down over time as these cars have fallen And by the way, we'll buy more than just Teslas. These companies have to report the depreciation of before they sell the car. So falling used EV prices hurt Hertz's balance sheets, their fleet. Hertz claims that taking into account damage and revenue per vehicle hurts his EV fleet as EBITDA margin points compared to Ice vehicles. Investors are split over what to do next. Some want Hertz to pause the EV program or abandon it Others say Hertz should persist. Hertz CEO Steven Scherr, who inherited the EV plan took office in February 2022, said in the company's three third quarter earnings call that it would be Hertz's fleet in favor of those made by GM and other automakers with stronger parts and service networks. Hertz is only renting Teslas to more experienced its rideshare business. Like I've driven a Tesla for the past seven years, I'm not going to lie, I almost got into 2 or 3 I wasn't used to it. And so I think one cool thing that Hertz is doing now to have a minimum number of trips. So you can't be a brand new driver and get into a cars. Hertz had previously shifted to leisure, where they Hertz overall rideshare rental business has grown 50% The higher rideshare demand has brought the company the lot. And by reducing the glut in the leisure segment. We do see really nice demand, certainly across large companies, um, hotels and airlines, as well as large America. And that's, that's a that's a natural, that we see coming through in 2023. It staged drive events at airports, including the Los Denver International. It does the same on corporate campuses. The company is also putting together instructional about driving EVs. Yes, Hertz has also taken a leadership role in building charging infrastructure, and we have partnered with BP to do exactly that. And the objective is to build out large scale fast for the public as well as for our own customers. And we're going to see Giga hubs appear at airports Houston and LAX upcoming. Scherr has also said that cheaper EV prices benefit the continues to acquire them. Overall, hurts isn't exactly struggling. In the third quarter 2023, it pulled in $2.7 billion a record gasoline vehicle rentals, which make up more fleet, are profitable. Overall demand was 16% higher than in the previous Operating costs are in line with expectations as Some costs are coming down. Billion dollars of EBITDA in 2023. Um, and they're still solidly positive. And, you know, they they they still generate ample They could potentially buy back stock. So, you know, it's not um, it's not a case of hey, the totally, um, you know, wiped out or anything by this. It's just, it just it's obviously crimping profits. Hertz is not the only company doing well. The whole industry is thriving. The only difference is competitors don't have the fleet. The hope is that its investments now will give If and when EVs take off in car rental, there are will. It takes at least a year or two to turn over EVs Hertz thinks it might be able to hold on to the cars competitors are not going to be able to match Hertz's they immediately be able to match Hertz's investments