Welcome back to the channel, and in this video NAS. Because a common question is, &quot;should I use or Network Attached Storage&quot;. I run multiple eight years now. Back then when I started I used WD. I look for alternatives and there were a few clear specifically, is the choice of using disks. Especially if enterprise are actually of Seagate disk right now, and it actually I moved away from Western Digital also because I would use going forward. Going back to around storage density development and reliability but drop them. Firstly WD started to drop behind in Seagate was starting to make great strides in have been one of the reasons why WD made some of going back some years I have been actually a huge I wasn't so impressed with their reliability, and seemed to be doing a much better job in terms previously. As well as leading the way in terms the real kicker for me was what happened with WD recording technology on their NAS Drives. And To give you some background there are a number of increase data density. Since around the mid-2000s called PMR or perpendicular magnetic recording, and recording. This technology simply places disk and writing the magnetic polarity into the head. The innovation for increased capacity here disk and also increasing areal density by making running into limiting factors around how small this, was to use something called Shingled Magnetic partially overlap and this means that the size of doesn't need to be so small. So this is fine but partially overwriting data on neighboring tracks tracks that may have been overwritten. So this does you want to write one Megabyte of data you may neighboring tracks to retain data consistency bad impact on very large writes especially things small and not continuous then this doesn't have smaller writes and lower frequencies to reduce using larger disk caches, now as data is written to writing to the larger cache which is fast and the you're performing a lot of large writes then the to the disk as it performs these rewrites and types of disks are less suitable for NAS use cases use of SMR wasn't the reason I stopped using WD disks. The reason was that WD went to great only was it not documented but if you went looking find out which disk had CMR and which had SMR. They they were doing, presumably so they could keep up I originally used CMR Western Digital Red six plus NAS but they replaced these disks with SMR which was which was by looking at the cache size. and this has 64 MB of cache and the SMR drives value the larger cache makes them look like better limitations of SMR write performance. Eventually, on this very publicly and they got a great deal the WD Red range and using SMR, and then creating actually tested one of these 'Plus' drives but due the disk, it just wasn't recognized by my NAS. This disk back and all the previous problems, this is point. Now would I go back to WD? Yes, I would. But their price to capacity and also there's definitely my experience with the Western Digital Red range example has been running for nearly eight years. you're using a NAS actively, especially if it's a type, then I would avoid using SMR disks entirely. Seagate options and compare, because Seagate now So feature wise, there doesn't seem to be a lot There is reporting that both the Pro and Exos are least, don't seem to bear that out. I also run two Exos, and I haven't noticed an issue in noise. from the Iron Wolf to the Iron Wolf Pro and Exos, have a stated recommendation for Max drives per an Enterprise Drive and designed to be placed in This &quot;Bay Count&quot; number actually comes from how the their speed slightly so that they don't get into enclosure, which can cause vibrational wear. The Pro or SMB enclosure, but 12 Bay enclosures like the my Synology 12 bay NAS has run six Terabyte Western limitation, and I haven't had any problems. And in years. The fact the enclosure has dampening reducing vibrations passing through the chassis. feature wise, let's review how these compare from UK using scan.co.uk and in the US using Newegg, I've also looked at other retailers as well and Iron Wolf range does not cater to the larger disk may be limited to either the Pro or Exos ranges. fact may vary over time periods where the best though, is the smaller form factor drives will drop Terabyte parity. This is partly as there's QA shipping and distribution etc. But also these time, and will likely only be selling to those that capacity drives typically carry a premium. We also a large premium and then as volume and yield price per Terabyte often sits in the middle, to the however that there is a cost associated with the of size, they have a certain number of bays. So give the best capacity to price for the NAS system in a similar order to the smaller disk, it may disk and maximize on NAS capacity. Okay let's Here we see that despite having a general feature actually cheaper per Terabyte across nearly the they may change over time. But this can include simpler or cheaper distribution, due to volume, and time. If they have a lot of these drives sitting a reduced price to get them moving. And finally, Talking specifically about the Synology lineup, supported drive models. Just because a drive isn't that it hasn't been tested and validated by the likely to be missing from the list as it takes So for example at time of creating this video, the are supported, but nothing above 14 Terabytes Plus or the DS2422 which I use. However, I run x18 18 that NAS is nearly eight years old. You may need to that is possible. So conclusions, as it stands not to run Exos disks versus either the IronWolf or the IronWolf Pro disk. The performance, warranty, scale and cost are all strongly in favor of one thing I would be aware of is that comparative It is recommended, though it's not required to performance related issues. If you start your NAS capacity over time, it is possible at some later disks. However having been monitoring this for some IronWolf pro and the Exos, so this doesn't appear So personally, I will continue using Exos disks this to the end, and please drop a like if this you to subscribe if the content is useful and you me your comments below if you have a perspective interested on your take on what happened with quiet enough that you were not aware. And as