Many services like Google, Microsoft or Apple are But what exactly are they, how do they work and logging in? In this video, I will explain why why passkeys are likely the next big thing in until the end because I'm going to give you a plus a sneak peek at how our passwordless future to know two things: 1. how old-school passwords Let's start with the first one. You probably know have to provide a username or your email and a passwords shouldn't be stored in plain text they another video. When you try to log in you provide if they match anything in the database. If yes for a long time but it does have flaws. Let's terrible password for everything from our email to the problem is that if one service gets hacked out the same credentials on other sites. Check to a website like haveibeenpwned.com. Over time with numbers, symbols, capital letters you won't remember. So some of us started using KeyPass or you know sticky notes on the monitor. enough. Hackers kept getting through so companies is where Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) or You've probably used it before. Maybe you get a Authenticator. You might even get a prompt on a how many times have you waited for that one text layer of security. The idea was simple: even if they will also have access to your second device. most people didn't bother setting it up anyway. PASSKEYS. They ditch the idea of something you a device secured with your fingerprint, face, pin, like a YubiKey. This is why all the big names on something you have to remember passkeys use or laptop. So how do passkeys work? Let's get a key cryptography. Imagine Alice wants to securely keys: a public key and a private key. Think of like siblings. But unlike siblings, they actually Bob or anyone else for that matter even with a it's not a secret. Bob can use the public key to Alice can unlock or decrypt the message using sends over the Internet. This encryption is so let me see... around 300 trillion years give or key cryptography is typical used for signing and Here's how it looks in practice. When you register a public-private key pair. The public key goes to private key stays hidden on your device. During random value to your device) and your device sends it back. The website checks it then against password involved! This method is also called don't rely on something you know like a password harder for hackers to break in. Now the weak link is stored. This also makes sharing your Netflix to share but anyway we'll figure something out. So we don't really see it. It's all behind the scenes in your browser or by services like Apple iCloud just to give an example. And all these systems can really curious how these keys look like here check out WebAuthn.io. WebAuthn, a protocol and log in without a password. So let's give click on &quot;Register&quot; and this is when my browser is passkey has been saved. As you can see I don't passkey in the Google Password Manager and again And as you will see here there's only my username if I click on edit there's not really anything been stored is not being revealed. So let's go the service so let's click on authenticate and see username and now my Google Password Manager provide it here and now I'm logged in. These are go ahead and delete my account but it just goes very nice user experience. In a similar way, it you'll be asked to authenticate with your is there is no password needed. You cannot forget Right now we are in a transition phase. Most log in with a passkey. Also, MFA is not dead. Some passkey and of course, this is super confusing need passwords at all but in the meantime try use doesn't support them at least set up MFA. So them already? Leave a comment below if you like write a comment for the algorithm. This way I know much for your support and see you next time. [Music]