- How you doing? I'm Matt. five different ways to joint Five methods include a piece of plywood, building your own jig, just using tape, and then Let's get started. For a lot of wood workers, to be able to find a way to joint lumber without buying a jointer So if you've watched this you know that before I was that I was jointing with my This is probably the easiest way to get started jointing boards. It's not the best way So it will not make a perfectly especially when you get into longer boards over about four feet. However, on shorter Let me show you how to do it. First and foremost, for your blade has to be So if it's not then it's not gonna, your seam isn't gonna come out right. Gotta be 90 degrees. If it's not 90 degrees, Now I'll drop a link in for one of those little if you're interested. So I'm gonna be jointing using a four foot level. And all this is, is you I like this I-beam aluminum style because it's not gonna bend and The reason this works, I get a lot of questions on why this works versus just using the fence, so the real reason this actually works is using a level on the table saw, I'm actually magic. I've actually sprinkled some magic sawdust on this level, and it now works because it's magic. (chuckles) The reason this method works is because you're giving this edge a flat surface reference So whatever is going on over here on the right side of the, of the blade, when this goes through the blade, then that's what's gonna If I just used the fence, but if this board has a when I'm pushing it through, it'll actually do that on the blade. You wouldn't think it would, But that's just gonna leave a non-flat, non-square cut on this side. When you use something and it must, it must go or move with the board. If it does not move with the board, you might as well just use the fence. If you're just doing it's no different than the fence. All you've done is extend your fence. Let's try it. (saw buzzes) I'm gonna do two boards then I'll line them up beside (saw buzzes) So now you can see it but it's really, really close. I could probably run it and get it much better. (saw buzzes) All right, I run it through again and you can see, man, this I mean, you can tell the difference in the grain patterns there, but, and that's just jointing so not bad. The second method on is you're just gonna build using 3/4 inch plywood. Let me show you. So I'm gonna rip this down to six inches. (saw buzzes) What I did was just marked where the riving knife and the blade is, and then I'm gonna clamp this here, move it over out of the the riving knife off. So I'm just gonna turn the blade on or turn the saw on and raise the blade up, and it's gonna make that cut. Then I will turn the saw off, un-clamp it and move this back. This-a-way, until it gets I was actually originally gonna raise the blade up, leave pull the plywood back, but the threat of kick-back there is way too much for me to actually want to do that. So what I did was just turn the blade on, raise it up, turn the saw off, lower the blade, move the then raise that blade back up like that. Once most of the material then you saw me slide And get any irregularities out of there. That's a big word, irregularities. (saw buzzes) Right, took my just a minute but it looks really good, the more I do it, the You can see it's pretty tight as is when I push it together you know, release it there. So one way to make this even is if you could take and stick it here. Something this slick, it won't actually hand the but it makes this backside stick out just a little bit, as what you're actually That'll give this a flat surface to reference to after it's been cut on this side and it'll just make jointing a little easier using this method. However, it does work even without that, but adding a piece of vinyl or something here on the backside will help you out. So that method actually works fairly well just for a quick jointing it's just a piece of plywood, It took me several passes to figure out what, how to do it properly. Extremely light pressure and take very, very little off of 64th, if that, just, Once you do that, you wind up with the good tight seam as equal as the level jig. Now I've got another one I wanna try and see if we can get it even better. Let's do it. If this video's bringing you value, click that share button, friends or family member who is also into woodworking and value as well. (saw buzzes) This is just an eight three quarter inch. Now I'm going to make a jig. So I'm actually gonna make a jointing jig or you could actually as well for tapering What I want to use to do that is a router, this quarter inch relief bit, and a quarter inch or from Micro Jig as well as some Dovetail clamps that's It's gonna make jointing on a table saw that much easier for you if there'll be a link in the It's not that expensive and they have several other if you want to get into that system. All right, so this is what I've done, I got my sheet of plywood cut out and I've marked four inches I wanna draw a line 'cause that's where my dovetail groove will go. (scoring wood) And you just make this board however long your fence is and then you're gonna mark half way of that distance, make a line and then halfway between these two lines we're so that we can have another groove here. And then we've got two marks, two inches from each end there, we'll make a mark down through there and then that'll be our I don't have a router table, just a little bit more time consuming, but it's not, I don't think it's gonna be impossible to do. You relief bit and we have to cut the quarter inch grooves first, doesn't actually have to It'll make last longer, et cetera, et cetera. set up a line, route that, change bits, route that, and over and over So that's gonna take a little bit of time. So all I did was lined up, lined up the center of and then I just measured and squared everything up. (saw buzzing) Gonna be a whole lot of blade changing. Man I need a router table. (saw buzzing) I don't know why I was but I was, don't do that. So that's the dovetail track and, I bought these clamps that Just like that. That's awesome. This is gonna be an I gotta finish up these grooves and then I'll show you (saw buzzing) Lesson number one, don't pull the bit up or it'll make a hole. I think but don't pick the router Bad idea. So I've got all those those dovetails cut in there with that palm router. Router table would have been so much easier, but it wasn't too bad, I just had to switch the bits out and make sure they were the and then set up that straight edge. It's pretty dang straight, I'm gonna put a 45 degree I'll show you why. (saw buzzing) So I'm just gonna measure over one inch from the edge and make a mark, same thing here, make a mark, and then I'm just gonna line up my blade and take off a one inch corner at a 45 degree angle. I'm gonna I should've done this but, live and learn. Boom! There it is! I I have high hopes for the other two methods. It just took a little bit of If you've got a router table, in no time. Put a little I prefer Trewax because it doesn't stink. Johnson's Paste Wax actually that Trewax doesn't, helps it glide, butter smooth on that table. I like it. So, the way this works, I've got my board that I want jointed, I've and we're just gonna slide I've run this fence - (tool falls to floor) I've run the fence to just beside the blade. Now you can actually attach a miter groove or a miter, what'd they call that, a miter slide, a piece of three quarter inch piece of board, and make it run in the groove if you want. But for a jointing sled you don't need it. Right. Because you're against the fence. And so all you wanna do is have that board overhang (clamp closes on wood) And so it's overhanging Just a little bit wider than the blade. It doesn't really matter as far as, what the alignment is so long as the blade cuts the entire board or Because it's just up in cut that edge off flush flip it over, put it against the fence and run it through without the sled and that's gonna give which is what you're after. (saw buzzing) That makes me happy. That (saw buzzes) Boom! That's the best joint yet. Jointing sled, man I a long time ago. The level works okay, but the jointing sleds It's easy, it's quick, I under there, a board that or Micro Jig actually makes a 360 sled kit that'll actually attach and you can use it that way. Now this can actually so it's a multi-function If you want to use this as a tapering jig all you need to do, if you wanna taper from to three and three quarters, your mark here, that's of your blade at four you're gonna make that mark and clamp everything down. Really quick, the reason versus chamfering all four sides is you wanna leave one for tapering. So if you're gonna have a board down here that's one inch and then up here it's four inches, you're gonna need something So this square edge If you're gonna be using I would highly recommend either putting a zero play miter bar underneath so that it runs in this track, or, that fits in there like you Let's try it and see what happens. (saw buzzing) Look at that. So simple, so simple. So if you're tapering legs, tapering jig slash jointing jig slash, now you've got a high for whatever reason you got a board that's taller and you're cutting a dado in it, or cutting a rabbet in or whatever, you need a high fence, a high fence. So, this and you get that as a bonus I'm very happy with this works so well, it's actually kind of an ingenious design, that I bought all this stuff. to this stuff was, I have, sent me the 360 Sled Kit, When I got this, I started saw that they had all of this other stuff which was the dovetail and then these clamps and they've actually got a exact sled. I'll drop a link below and you can go check that out. Has free plans, everything make one of these for But this works really To actually edge joint a things like that it's gonna If you've got a table saw. So I actually didn't I saw it on a video by If you wanna see how she does it, you can go check it out because she's working without a jointer as well. Double-sided tape, I don't have any so, I'm going to, for the good old-fashioned duct tape. I would actually not for this because when you it's gonna be really thick. double-sided tape, it'll But, just for demonstration purposes, you're just gonna take or a piece of plywood You're gonna take your and just barely hang it over so that the blade's And same thing down here. (wood slaps) Set on top of that tape. from slipping and moving, similar to what the clamps do on the sled. Once it's stuck, you should be able to just to run it through no problem. (saw buzzes) That easy. That is easy. is just peel it up, take your board. You've got a jointed edge. Now that I've built the I know that's dangerous. Can I joint with the sled without a table saw? Just using a circular saw? Let's find out. So I'm just gonna clamp this Flip this over. This is gonna work y'all. Who believes? Gotta believe in me. I believe, I believe! That's gonna work. It's gonna work, I believe I can fly. It's gotta work, right? I how to do this for years. Kabam. Check this out. Who (saw buzzes) Boom! Aha! That works. You can tell me, I don't mind. That works, that works a good flat edge on this side, and now obviously you would or even a, maybe the kreg and use this side as a flat reference too. Yeah, I think that would work actually. And then you would have two parallel edges and, with a circular saw. Now it would be hard or anything smaller than a tubasix. You could probably still do it, but it would just, it (laughing) It's flat. That's about a rough cut board flat And in case you don't know a kreg rip cut is just a circular saw fits in there, and you can actually put it to, say, you know, couple inches. It'll go down to well like, one inch. And the circular saw will And then you could actually reference this edge to cut this two parallel sides. Jointing Those are the methods you can use if you don't have jointer. I want to throw this in the challenge, just to see how it stacks up against, especially that sled because that sled was (light bulb dings) (saw buzzing) For speed and convenience, obviously, the jointers gonna win. It, once you clamp these together, the gap goes nonexistent. As you can see there, mash 'em together and then, course I can slide them apart. That's really cool, I makes perfect, flat edges. Perfect. They come together is 90 degrees to your table, and as long as your board's not wompyjawed sleds the way to go. Now the taping method, alto, alto? The taping method also works really well, you're just gonna have to But that's an option for T tracks or the Micro Match fit? Yeah. But now that I have this multiple uses, tapering, high fence, and then also jointing jig if need be. Multi-use sled, so it's really, I think, the winner because you than just joint with it. Hey, if you liked this right there, it's gonna take you to the next set of videos. Click on that box, get you that big ol' virtual fist bump. Also if you haven't subscribed already, go ahead and click that subscribe button, it really helps the channel out. Especially if you just share who may get value out of it. Thank you.