November 6, 1995. A siren wails Grief is mixed with horror. For the first time a politician has been assassinated. Yitzhak Rabin has been murdered. Israel's Prime Minister, a general who fought for peace, A legendary figure who almost alone embodied every combat Israel mourns Yitzhak Rabin. Yitzhak Rabin is dead, and he was assassinated by a Jew. It was so traumatic, first and foremost, because for the first time a prime minister the leader of the Jews. A Jew doesn't kill another Jew A Jew doesn't kill another Jew Political assassination How could the unimaginable Perhaps because, before the unimaginable, On September 13, 1993, the Israeli Prime Minister both in Israel and abroad, Therefore, it was here that the final days The time for peace has come. We who have fought against you, today we say to you enough of blood and tears. Enough! Rabin not only began peace negotiations but worse was to come Yasser Arafat. Regarding my conversations with Washington in the two days preceding almost all the conversations, were devoted to the question hugging him, shaking his hand, and even talking to him Twenty-four hours before, &quot;I don't want to shake Arafat's hand.&quot; In previous declarations, he'd said: &quot;hands covered in the blood During the night, Clinton called him &quot;There are 3,000 people &quot;You can't.&quot; We can see it in Clinton's attitude when he takes them by the shoulders Clinton says not to do that to him He says that he's not sure However, he could. The handshake he so dreaded For a good number of Jews, shaking the devil's hand, was nothing less than treason, All the more unimaginable and unpardonable Rabin was Israel. His own story melded His parents having fled Rabin was born in Jerusalem He was a sabra, a Jew born in the land He embodied the new Jew, Destined in the minds to forever obliterate history's eternal victim. Our dream, was to find an Israeli state focusing on agriculture, establishing settlements, The people who influenced us the most Our home was very active, Rabin was more than active. He was a fighter, and he fought every battle As a teenager, he joined the Haganah, As part of a commando unit, which was finally won in 1948. Despite the joy and excitement, the young Hebrew state For Rabin, the young officer, nothing counted more and its army. From the age of 16, his whole life was devoted to the army. Above all, he saw himself as a soldier Before being a politician, before anything else. A soldier, and what a soldier! In 1967, he was the veritable architect A war against its Arab neighbors Twenty years after its creation, annexing the Golan Heights in Syria, and the Gaza Strip. The Arabs were totally routed. The chief of Sahal could boast Substantial losses, but limited Yitzhak Rabin was a hesitant leader, personally prefer leaders who hesitate before sending our boys where one can, The most important thing a good many years was what we called Human life comes first. Israel conquered Judea and Samaria. More importantly, its flag once more flew and its holy shrines. Alongside Defense Minister Moshe Dayan, Yitzhak Rabin It was a pivotal moment, for better or worse. For the worse, because there was euphoria that had been regained. All those names in the Bible, Hebron, Bethlehem, Shiloh, Maybe certain people had dreams but it was just a theory. Then suddenly, it was a physical reality. We can go there. We hold these places, they're ours. For some people, the Six-Day War the Greater Israel, ignoring the Arab populations The question of the occupied territories In 1968, Rabin left his Sahal uniform He spent five years in Washington He succeeded Golda Meir as Prime Minister There was no question of negotiating embodied by Yasser Arafat's PLO. Despite the kidnappings, and the First Intifada in 1987, Rabin, as Defense Minister We are going to make it clear by every means that is in our possession, within the limits of our laws, to ensure that the population realizes that through violence and terror, they'll achieve nothing He was the man who was famous for saying that we had to break What he said exactly but that's what happened. The Palestinian's bones were broken We are in confrontation with you. Let's shift the confrontation Let's solve it not with stones, petrol bottles, or knives, but around the negotiation table. In 1992, Rabin softened his image He became Prime Minister again with an electoral promise He started with the peace camp, It doesn't mean the people In theory, everyone wanted peace. It means those people who were prepared That is, making territorial concessions, accepting and even furthering September 13, 1993. That was why, for many Jews, the handshake was an act of treason. Twenty-six years Rabin was prepared The former Sahal commando a soldier with just two years to live. An infernal mechanism was put into action Jewish extremists. For them, but a wanted man. The first step In 1994, month after month, Notably, the demos and the inhabitants Rabin was intransigent. Those who opposed peace with violence He always had with the nationalist religious movement He told us was that the fundamentalists both Palestinians and Jews, such as Hebron, Nablus, and such places. He said there was serious confrontation. That scared him because our fundamentalists His fears were justified a few days before Rabin's 72nd birthday, in Hebron, at the Tomb of the Patriarchs, At dawn, emptied his pistol, clip after clip, firing at Muslim worshippers He was then lynched There were 29 dead and 115 wounded. Rabin and a good part of the country It was no longer merely a question but of admitting that it could lead This is a difficult day who seek peace. However, this deranged action of the lunatic individual will not prevent the reconciliation between the citizens and the Palestinian people. The killer, Baruch Goldstein, was a disciple of the Kach, who from the '70s until his death in 1990 His organization had never extended but its power to harm The Kahanist movement was broken up, but it still had sympathizers At Kiryat Arba, for example, a settlement of Orthodox Jews Rabbi Kahane's ideology should be based on the great Israel. You have to understand who live in Hebron that we have to be exterminated, killed without leaving any trace, We are hated because we are Jews. It's a crazy situation, and Rabbi Kahane thought To do that, there had to be a retreat. The Arabs should be sent back and a proper Jewish state These extremist ideas appealed to a young computer science enrolled at a religious university. His name was Yigal Amir. Born in Tel Aviv in 1970, he was part of the generation what Israel owed to its Prime Minister. The brains behind the Six-Day War. The instigator of the legendary attack The man who responded However, in 1994, Amir had a new idol, and his faith led him who had become a veritable martyr Baruch Goldstein, the Butcher of Hebron. Like thousands of other extremists, he now felt nothing but hatred for the man alongside Shimon Peres and Yasser Arafat. Amir had but one obsession, to derail the peace agreement. A traitor is someone who helps I also think that someone who puts a gun is a traitor too, there's no other word. In 1995, the violence was escalating. Rabin was sitting on a time bomb. The Palestinian Hamas Even worse, Israel began liberating After 27 years of exile, After the handshake in 1993, now came the kiss of death The parliamentary right wing and assailed Rabin at the Knesset. Anti-government demonstrations were rife, even in front Vengeful and murderous slogans &quot;Death to Rabin, death to the traitor.&quot; What we felt most was fear. I was very scared because I could see these people and their hatred. Once, while we were and I could see I said to Rafi: &quot;It's like the Ku Klux Klan.&quot; Seeing those demonstrations and all those hundreds of people who picked him out it was a terrible ordeal. At the office, for example, hate mail with Nazi symbols, and we received We also got some awful telephone calls. However, Rabin didn't weaken. On September 28, 1995, he was once again in Washington The Egyptian president, Hosni Mubarak, and King Hussein of Jordan Once again, Rabin knew how to talk to Arafat. When Arafat lied just one call Arafat had a kind of respect for Rabin that was an essential element Rabin and Arafat, two fates entwined, In the autumn of 1995, The demonstrations continued, When I learned that for the Prime Minister's death, We went to film. I was all alone. The Israeli press didn't understand On October 2, in front of Rabin's home, a handful of men a deadly curse, the Psalms of Vengeance. For certain visionaries of Judaism, For the atmosphere of hate to transform into political assassination, there had to be a very powerful That was made possible You don't understand to sacrifice their souls for this country, the only land that belongs to the Jews, You want us to leave? We've had Auschwitz, In early October, in a Jewish settlement. Several people were arrested, now a member of the Eyal movement, These activists had organized a show a circus parade It was sworn on the grave one of the leading before the creation of Israel. Their promise that night was to kill Jews Yitzhak Rabin was firmly in their sights. I never saw him tremble, be afraid, It is possible that toward the end, He despised the demonstrators, and simply had no regard for them. I think that if he had behaved he wouldn't have raised to a degree that was unprecedented, Shame on you, you wretches! Judaism and hate are not compatible! Judaism means values of solidarity, Judaism is tolerant! Judaism is positive! Judaism is not racist! There was perhaps but Rabin wasn't concerned Rabin himself refused to believe it. He refused to wear a bulletproof vest. He would say: &quot;I shall not protect myself That's how he saw it, if you like. On October 6, a political meeting in Zion Square The mood was for a lynching, and all the right-wing leaders were there, to the head of the Likud, It wasn't the splinter groups although they were there. There was the right wing, and the nationalist right. It's not the Mr. Rabin He is an entirely different man now. He's a weak man who has given up. The people of Israel want real peace. Real peace means peace with security, peace they can trust, and they don't feel they have that here. We want real peace, not a fake one. The parliamentary right wing's game to use the rank and file to seize power. It was as simple as that. That meant: &quot;Here we have popular opinion &quot;Thanks to this popular opinion,&quot; &quot;we'll reverse the situation It was as political Not one of them dared to say: &quot;We don't play that game, One harrowing image stood out that night. Demonstrators held up a doctored photo This was one low blow too many a partisan of peace, the Franco-Israeli businessman I knew what that meant. It meant he had to be killed. An SS officer is a symbol of murder for people who have to be eliminated. Frydman decided to take action. The streets could not be abandoned I had the idea of a major rally than the demonstrations against Rabin. First, I spoke to Peres, and he said: &quot;Yes, we must do that, He was skeptical about the rally. He wasn't afraid but he was afraid that the support and that the result would be wouldn't be sufficiently supported He said: &quot;If it doesn't work, &quot;It will be the end of the peace process.&quot; That reaction made me very angry. I said to him: &quot;Yes, but what if &quot;What if people don't come?&quot; &quot;If the Israeli people Rabin reluctantly agreed but a date had to be fixed. I said: &quot;Listen, the only day possible &quot;It has to be a Saturday.&quot; &quot;It has to be before the rainy season, &quot;You and Peres both have to be there.&quot; &quot;The only Saturday before November 15th He picked up his diary and quite aggressively When the tragedy occurred, &quot;I gave him the day, the time, Saturday, November 4, 1995. It is Shabbat, as it prepares for Jean Frydman's At about 6:00 p.m., Rabin has a final appointment Haim Ramon. He was very calm, We had small talks about things going on, Then we also discussed the demonstration. As always, he was very pessimistic, and so on. &quot;They don't know how to organize it.&quot; I told him: &quot;It's hard, but don't worry.&quot; &quot;This time it's going to be a big one, He made his typical gesture &quot;Let's see, let's see.&quot; That was the last time I saw him alive. The day comes to an end in Tel Aviv. At around 7:00 p.m., a young man leaves his family home and catches a number 247 bus He is to attend In his pocket, A steel ball has been added for maximum damage. The man who altered the bullets a weapons and ammunition expert When he reaches the square, Amir takes off his kippah It is 7:45 when Yitzhak Rabin to drive himself Menahem Damti picks them up imposed on Rabin by the security service, the Shin Bet. I'm quite shaken I'm shivering all over because it brings back every awful moment I remember that Rabin He didn't want to consider I understood later to accept the car for security reasons, He used to say: &quot;What?&quot; &quot;People are traveling by bus &quot;and I have to travel in an armored car?&quot; &quot;No, I refuse.&quot; However, after a certain amount he finally agreed. Before we arrived at the ceremony, he was concerned and wondered However, he was informed Therefore, he was pleased, and he was in quite a good mood At about 6:00, A flood of people It was quite impressive. There were three helicopters, 200 marksmen on the rooftops, and several hundred soldiers The security problem wasn't an issue. It was almost 8:00 at the Kings of Israel Square Between 200,000 and 300,000 people I welcomed him there. We were on the stage in front of the city hall. He reacted: &quot;Ah!&quot; The relief in that sigh was very revealing A relief and even a shock for Rabin, who had been so violently attacked It was also a revelation At that moment, He saw young people splashing in fountains He was the opposite of a popular leader, a public speaker, realizing that he'd been during that period. It wasn't the others who were right, The people supported him and loved him. All apart from one man Amir kept his distance as much as the man He waited for his moment behind the stage, where the evening's heroes The heroes were Rabin, of course, but also Shimon Peres, who had convinced Rabin Formerly his rival Peres was now his companion in history. In fact, they hated each other. We have to tell it like it is. They were intense adversaries and a profound antipathy. That's a fact. They were companions I would say it was one of the dimensions Perhaps the first time in the way they came together There was something real I have been a soldier for 27 years. I fought I am convinced that a great chance, and we must seize it. Therefore, he made his speech. He was very pleased, He stepped down I said: &quot;No, there's still &quot;Everyone's going to sing a song.&quot; He squinted at me. He asked me: &quot;What is this song?&quot; &quot;It's a song for peace, It was a real reversal on his part. Rabin was there singing the same song when he was head of the armed forces There he was singing it on stage. There was a sentiment of appeasement. We felt that Yitzhak Rabin He was singing a song of peace. You can see him smiling. He was delighted because the rally demonstrated and he'd never seen that before. It is 9:42 p.m., Yitzhak Rabin and his wife but before they leave, he wants to pose for one last picture I went down the steps with Rabin, I asked: &quot;Are you pleased?&quot; He replied: &quot;What do you mean, happy?&quot; &quot;I owe you the best two hours of my life.&quot; I saw the Prime Minister coming down, looking from left to right. He turned around. There was a security guard there. He arrived on my side, but he should have arrived He was looking around, In one way or another, and suddenly the damned murderer He fired and fired &quot;What's that? It is 9:47 p.m. Yigal Amir slips past the surveillance approaches from behind, Three shots ring out. Rabin collapses, The third bullet wounds a bodyguard, who nevertheless manages I engaged first gear and started to speed away At first sight, I looked at him, He reacted: &quot;Ah, ah!&quot; He was stammering My chief said: The armor-plated Cadillac a few minutes after the attack. The bodyguard is wounded in the shoulder. Yitzhak Rabin is unconscious At the scene of the attack, and scattering in every direction. Bodyguards and police officers and hold him against a wall. I met my cameraman, and we saw a person I asked him: &quot;Did you film that?&quot; He said: &quot;Yes, I filmed it.&quot; -&quot;Who is it?&quot; -&quot;Was he Palestinian or Jewish?&quot; This impression was confirmed Amir declares that he is not an Arab, Yigal Amir and then transferred Contradictory rumors are circulating Leah Rabin arrives at the hospital as the population of Tel Aviv not yet knowing that Yitzhak Rabin's heart It is 10:30. The doctors' final attempts There's no point describing what I felt. It was terribly traumatic, That evening, it crashed down on us I don't think I need to say any more. I think the full weight on our family is sufficiently obvious. It's very, very difficult for me. For three days, It was very hard. A man who I had worked with my whole life, and who asked about my children &quot;How's the family?&quot; I lost a father, I'm not joking. I felt really bad, really very, very bad. The rally banners when the President of the United States I admired him, and I loved him very much. Since words let me just say: &quot;Shalom, chaver.&quot; &quot;Goodbye, friend.&quot; Yasser Arafat was next, clearly in shock. I am very sad and very shocked by this awful and terrible crime. Forty-eight hours after the attack, Yitzhak Rabin was buried beside Israel's founding fathers. For security reasons, The head of the PLO but 87 other heads of state Leah, I know that... Funeral orations were given as well as by close friends who held up the lyrics the paper soaked in blood Above all, there was Noa, whose words and tears Forgive me I should talk about my grandfather. I ask the angels of heaven to watch over you and take care of you, for you deserve such guardians. We shall always love you, grandfather. There was a journalistic problem. We all talked about the granddaughter However, at the funeral, impossible to imagine A third of the Arab League just 50 meters Imagine it, Hosni Mubarak. The King of Jordan, from whom Rabin, as head of the armed forces had taken East Jerusalem The King of Jordan was there! I had never thought that a moment would come when I would grieve the loss of a brother, a colleague, and a friend. He had vision, and he had a commitment to peace. Rabin was the first man However, instead of building on that, Four days after the funeral, a man accompanied by bodyguards a hat, and dark glasses It was Yasser Arafat, who came to present to the widow and her family. It was the first time in his life A secret visit in disguise, perhaps for the first time too Did Yasser Arafat suspect that evening would also ring the death knell In Israel, there was grief, The people mourned their Prime Minister. The state grieved the loss of innocence. The Israelis wanted to understand. A commission of inquiry was set up. How and why could a Jew, Yigal Amir, I think that the Shin Bet and the security forces not in terms of organization. It wasn't a technical error, The mistake was in their minds, in the notion that terrorism A Jew can't do that. The Shin Bet was under serious scrutiny. How could Amir, have avoided being placed despite the fact an informer had told them of a plan There had been no investigation, and there was no trace The scandal deepened when it was revealed that the Eyal movement had been infiltrated No more was needed to create In my view, the assassin like a man from Mars with a kippah suddenly deciding He emerged from a movement. Various theories, have suggested he was sent by the rabbis, but this has never been proved. I think he was at least of a whole movement and interrupt the peace process The verdict of the inquiry commission Amir was a fanatic, acting by himself. The assassin himself and consistently claimed by a deadly holy trinity, the people, the Torah, On March 26, 1996, after a trial that lasted As if Israeli society as soon as possible, avoiding the perils The shadow of the murder Many of the things we're doing are influenced Subjected to solitary confinement, However, he is married by correspondence. Ten years after its verdict, the Supreme Court even granted him by artificial insemination. Will this child, if it is ever born, one day learn of its father's act? At the time it happened, that the peace process for the death of one man However, I was entirely wrong. The death of Yitzhak Rabin on the process The time for peace has come. Today, we say to you Enough of blood and tears. Enough! Hamas's continuing suicide attacks only precipitated His successors on both the left and right were obliged to follow even those who rode the wave of hate. Benjamin Netanyahu, also shook hands with Yasser Arafat less than a year after his rival's death. As for Ariel Sharon, he became, in turn, for having forced the Jewish settlements Ten years after the death Israelis and Palestinians alike have all failed to make peace.