N and his mother are selling here again. Yes, you and your mother are selling something. I'm selling sticky rice. Do you need me to come down and support anything? Yes, I can do that. C, I'll go wherever you need. I'll sell it. There's a lot left. My products are also newly released and not yet sold TH, are you selling this product too fast? Can you sell a lot of products? I made it myself. Yes, I made it myself, and I'm sitting here. V is not the same [ music] no Yes, baby My mother , my mother, pain, my mother, my mother, honey, my dear, I don't go out, I don't go out, there are so many cars coming here to see here for this mother, so I will eat betel nut, so I sell this betel Oh my gosh, there's B RC. Yes, here. Let's eat this. Let me eat betel. It's not a snack. Ladies, please try it. Yes. Yes, Mrs. Dao. If you think it's delicious, please recommend it. introduce to N's family Here, Grandma , you're normal. If you eat grass, it must be delicious. You can eat this with potatoes. Yes, I tell you. If you think it's delicious, please support me. I say, please support me. ok so yes socks and yes eat patty Ah, you're not a grandma, are you? She just ate, right? You can't eat it. You're just a baby. You're still young. Your father is still a grown man. How many years have you been eating? You've been eating for a long time. You've been eating for a long time. It's been more than twenty years. Is it delicious? Is it delicious? Is it delicious? If you don't like this, how much does it cost? I'll give you one to try. If you want it, I'll sell it for 1,000. Yes, buy one. Oh, I'll let you eat the one you ate just now . Just try it, I won't take it Where's the money? But you like to buy them in bunches. Go home and eat. Yes, if you think it's delicious. If you support me , then I'll take one for you. Will you buy one? Can you please tell me? Mrs. Buy Buy this CH CH so it's the same. K this bunch is 20,000 VND, right? I'm selling it for 1000 each Mrs. I'm counting and counting and counting . 2 4 6 8 10. This is more than 10. Yes, my dear. This one too. This one is also 10. 11 fruits. C counts as 10 fruits. Go, my dear. I don't have enough money. Can you give this lady half of this? This one belongs to you. This is 20,000 VND and pay it to me. I beg you. This part belongs to you. How can I sell this? I'll count it all, take it back and sell it to you too. Yes, yours is 30,000. Mrs. Yes. Mrs. bai Thank you. Yes, when you return Please support me, fish Ho, please hold it. I almost dropped it. Let me hold it. Put it in this bag. Thank you. Put it in the bag. Don't fall, don't fall, don't put it. Here's the gift. Here, Mom.) h Mom sells things, mom, who buys things so I'll go buy them h This CH has money to buy candy That's right ha this place I have money to buy for you okay Eat this this this this this this this how much this money for this one donut x Hands and please be good , it's delicious [music] Mom, please press the phone , it's very [music] Hello boss, are you here? Yes, please sit down and talk to me for a bit . go to work Yes , in this document. Yesterday you gave it to me, I also saw it and I also signed it. Check it and see that in these documents you have completed all the legal documents. Yes, this profile is me I've prepared everything for you, boss . Now, I've given all of this to you. I've given it to my boss. It's got all the paperwork. It's got all the items here. Here, arrange the Vietnamese form and sign it, then start. I first went to Dai Phat company to take over the project for the other party. After that, I paid the remaining amount to the company so that they could disburse the money and then I went to discuss the price with them. More collection Okay, please follow me. Yes, I'll make an appointment for you What time am I? Yes, I made an appointment with Dai Phat company at 9:00 so I'll come over there. It's almost time now. I'm leaving slowly as if I was absent from the company, what else is important? It's important for me to handle it. Yes, I've already urged the workers to do your job well. I've already urged the workers to do your job well. Now, just give me instructions and I'll let the workers do it well. I'm done, please let me go to V Palace for treatment Yes , now you and I are going down to Dai Phat company's construction site. Okay, now you let me go down to the construction site. Is there anything else? I'll go back to the company and I'll look into it later. Yes, now, please let me go. Is there a solution? Yes bro. Drive over there so I can have a moment. Have you seen the two of you selling there? I need you to do something. Yes, something. Let me do it for you to come down and see you two. The other one sells everything you bought for me. Yes, sir I [music] like this one, how much does it cost? I'm selling it for 1,000 VND, please let me show you all 200,000 and get it for me. 200 is fine. Please support me. Take this. Thank you, mom. What did you sell? I asked the question Buy Buy it all now I have 200,000 I can sell it all high all high I have money So do you want to eat gac sticky rice Mommy go Buy rice, mom, bring a bucket for me to eat. I want to eat rice. So, mom, go buy rice and cook sticky rice for me. There's gac here. Then I'll bring it home. I'll bring it home to cook sticky rice. Let mom go buy it [ Applause] rice dad ti say hello ladies I'm going home now Hello everyone I'm going home first [music] hey [music] boss just now I saw the mother and daughter and saw the person selling that question was familiar. I asked Isn't that the person who saved you the day you had an accident? That's not right . So why don't you go down and buy it directly? You even asked someone else to come down to help her. If I go down, I'll probably buy it. She won't. Wherever you receive it, I'll let the driver come down and pick it up for you. I think the boss should come down later. The boss should come down directly to buy it and say thank you for your help. That's my ticket, you don't have to worry about it, just do it. Good job. Yes, I'll introduce the paperwork Are you ready to prepare everything for me? I 've been preparing for the past few days and waiting for the director, then I'll just go pick it up, let's check it out , I'm sure they've sent it back over there. then my partner is over there and can you check the car over there for me ? I just sat here and stood here waiting for it This work of ours is under construction and has just been completed. We have been focusing on successfully completing it for the past 2 months so that it can be handed over to people for easy travel. Please follow me inside to check it out. I'm here on this road, I'm working on it and according to CH, this factory has all the dimensions and thickness of the house. You've completed the design survey and then you go. Let me see all the way inside and then check. Let's investigate and discuss the woman's work for the people Is this soil thick enough to be the right size? Yes, it's still the right size according to the ticket table . This will be filled with soil if you work tomorrow. It's equal to the road surface , so you don't have to pour it in. Over here, can you come down and take a look? Try to design this style. It's still according to the ticket to see if it's guaranteed to be constructed. That's ok. This is the setup here. Those over there. What is the height? bc this is correct. by design Well by design this dimension it 2 meters this afternoon, it's 1 and a half trees. Big bong, it's 120 already. There's only a little water in this place. So you see, this dimension comes from outside. It's 1 and a half trees, can you see ? It's a bit wide , I'll let someone measure the length, then look at the design and give me the measurements. Please let me know if it's correct in the design documents. Yes, the report says it's the design side and it's 4.2. th That's right Yes, that's exactly according to the design. Yes, do you have to wait for the thickness? Yes , Dy. How many ladies can you check to see if the size in the picture is 18 centimeters? Yes, it says the size is 18 centimeters. That's right. Yes. Yes [music] Please see if the length of one tree down there is enough in the next version. Yes, I told you that 1 and a half trees is enough. Yesterday I went down to work down here, so I measured it. It's over, now just let me arrange it Come down to receive the collection. Yes, that's good. Yes. Tomorrow , after taking over the collection, I will proceed to prepare the ghost to hand it over to them. I've started with it and it's enough from here to pay the fee first. Can you give me the length measurement, boss? Through the process, you also check the length, width, thickness, etc. Now if you see, there's no problem. What's the matter? Invite your boss to come to the office and come down to survey. I can also see that the quality of the project is in accordance with the design. If there are any questions, please come to our office to work. Then let's go to the [music room] ] There are also cradles now, please Please follow my car and go upstairs. Yes, no, I'm done. I'm going back to the office. Thx x Sister, honey, do you have any sticky rice? Let me see, how much does a kilo of this cost? B, 40, please go here. 20, 20k , 20k, 20k , 4,000 beautiful seeds. Here, I'll give you two of these, I 'll take Chu , two kilos, yes. Okay What do you get? Where do you get it? I said tell me to get it for you. [music] I'll take that one. How much is that for one? I'll take two for two instead. Oh, I beg you, please. Come on, you won't eat it. It's delicious . Come on, eat it. You won't eat it. It's just how many million is it? 82,000 VND. I have to come here. 2,000 VND. Please don't touch me. I have your children. I went to Kha That, it's quite far and it's hot, try giving water to the director of V. Mr. Chi . Through the survey, we also actually followed the ticket exactly like that when we went through the survey. In fact, I also see that your side works very well and ensures quality according to the Giang proposal. Your side has recognized and implemented according to the time, fully measured and we will declare the procedures for handing over to the party. You followed the original contract, no problems arose What is the problem? Please check the documents when we proceed. Miss V, please check the documents. We are checking, so let's go ahead and let it be done. Yes, please look at the data and data on the use of documents. Can you help me? If this document is correct, it is in accordance with what my side requested. Now let me take a look at it. It's okay to measure two kilograms. Yes, it's just right I took a look at this profile just now and if there's no place for eye contact, I'll give it a second so that B can go to work in Vietnam, there's not much time left . X ch now this profile is If both parties have signed the ticket, you will keep one copy and I will keep one copy. Yes, there is also the issue of money, then you will let me pay it to my company to sign the payment. Yes, that's fine. If there is any At least let us respond to fake workers partly Before, my work has already been completed. I also see that your side is doing a very good job. I hope that next time, you and my side will have many projects for us to do together with long beards, and I will also do the construction. According to the design and we really hope to have the project, next time the governor will give it to us so that we can have a job and if there is a problem with money, you will agree to finalize the settlement with the company. I will work with my side to deliver the remaining percentage. Yes Here I have a pool to play tomorrow I will send someone to the company office You guys need to get money now it's too late I'm also very busy please allow the company I don't know what else to do right now It's also late. Stay with us for dinner. I have a lot of work to do in the afternoon and have to have a meeting . Right now, the company also told me not to stay and lie, so this is called sending a little sympathy to you guys. Everyone in the company has a Profit Order , so you just keep it to go and pay the workers You accept it for the government I'm happy to call it an oath that it's worth working, worth working, how much money do you have to travel back and forth to pay for the palace ? tell me too [music] boom d km d [music] They are so beautiful Son Tang mommy thank you I love you so be careful you make me so sweet here please don't don't fall fall d Be careful, my dear, then wash it clean. It's clean. It's a big piece . Is it ok? I'll just soak it and it'll be delicious. Once you've cooked it, it'll be delicious. Okay okay okay okay okay I'll do it then I'll fall down please bring this down baby I'm up here Don't eat rice [music] I'm playing with you baby please don't play with me Baby Yes What are you doing? I'm teasing a duck. Yes, let me soak it for a bit . Put the pot in for me to eat, okay ? Let me put the whole country in . [music] Where are you [music] mom ? [Applause] It 's too cold, it's not delicious. Wait a little longer so I can eat it. I'm not hungry. I'm hungry. I'm hungry. Mom, let me eat the food right away. I'll put it on fire. Hey, it burned a mound under the ground so I can get this leaf for my kids to eat when I get home. Yes, I'll buy it after I buy it. [music] ch ch ch C s BM enough, no branch I [music] I'm laughing so hard I'm always holding hands with so many cars, I'm holding hands with my children but it's almost too dangerous. Oh sister, is there a place where I can sit and sell comedy for a bit? Salesman What do you sell? I sell sticky rice with TH. Is that the number on the other side? The table C Ah, the table needs a chair, no, I don't need it. I'll take B instead and let me borrow it. I'm here, baby, let me sell. Yes , my face is small. Mom, mom. Here , I'll shoot you for 10,000 a pack. [music] ch Thank you Yes, I have a cha [music] Are you and your mother selling here? Yes, you two are selling something. Oh, I'm selling sticky rice. Do you need me to come down and support? what not Yes, you can just go if you come home . Have you eaten anything yet? I'll give it to you. I've been eating for a month now. My two children still sell. There's still a lot of goods. TH Yes. My two B children have just come out, so I haven't sold much yet. That's it. I'll go down and sell together. Okay, if you're home, just go. I've just finished work . Is it too late? Have you been able to sell a lot of products? My child just got out, so I haven't sold many yet today. There are very few people passing by today Can you sell it? I'm here [music] ann I can you make it yourself? Yes, you can make it yourself. Oh, it's delicious. Yes, try it . Try it. Eat it . Eat it. Watch my sister make it. Is it delicious? Oh, yours is delicious. You're very skillful. C. It's delicious , isn't it? It's delicious. Is it delicious? Thank you. It's so delicious. Thank you. How much is the package of sticky rice? I sell it. 1000 per pack, Sister It's hot selling, what are you selling? What's this? How much does it cost for one gram? Red sticky rice or white sticky rice ? Thank you. Come and support me later. How many packets will I take ? How much does one packet cost? Hey sir, I'll bring you two packs. Come and support me later, baby. Come on, let's eat. There's only two packs left. Do you still have any left? I still have them. I still have them for sale. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let 's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go buy some sticky rice for our mother. [music] how fast is it selling? What to eat? Emi, can you see that? How much did you pay for the tile? Oh, so where are you going? Yes , the other day, I was the best student in the class and sold sticky rice. Hello, sir. How are you ? B's job is fine. No, it's okay The other couple also worked hard. Hey, he took the bag. This sticky rice looks delicious, but it's a bit hard. But mine works Yes, it's fine for work, but why isn't it my wife's shirt and clothes that I'm selling? He 's dressed like this director, right? Yes, I'm wearing a shirt and she's just getting by day by day. That's a pity, try harder. Well, I used to be the best student in the class, so I didn't have any money my friend, my friend, oh my dear, I've got enough money, oh my dear, just leave it to your grandchild, take it, I've got enough, just take it to buy this for your grandchild to eat, I'll take it, please contact me, I'll just take the money and get enough, bro. Well, just take it so he can buy a gift Take it, my dear. Just take it and sell it. You're poor. You're really poor and don't need any of those things. You have to be a gentleman. Let's shoot. Thank you and then go. There's nothing difficult to eat. Just leave it to me. We'll talk about that later. Hey, my friend came over to support me, okay. Try your best . [music] Why didn't you let me explain to your friend just now so he can say it? Do you sell sticky rice? So, my cousin, I studied with him since the old days. then Tinh It's so good that it's normal for other people so I don't like it that much, you don't need to explain. This is tickling someone to be close to you and it doesn't matter. That's not it. I'm just worried because of you. It's okay for your son to give me the same number as his friends. I'm not a patient of this mind. I also go out into society a lot. I also meet many people like that. Yes, what happened just now? I just saw his attitude like that Tinh explained as Can I calculated his calculation. So you already know my friend from the past, so we don't have to explain how to sell sticky rice. Yes, how much is mine? Oh, I'll give you 10,000. Thank you Thank you. Next time I'll come by to support your products. Luckily, I have you. I've been selling them since a while ago. I've been sitting here and sold a pack or two. You came here. It's all gone. So what is it? Let me leave you with two children. I'll just go back with my two children. Because I'm still going to buy some things, so I'll go home first. Yes, thank you [sound]. music] baby, mom, after packing up the goods, I'll go home. I'll go home first, Ba. Yes, my son , my son, let's go V to sell. Yes, thank you. I'll go back and let the bowl come out. Don't forget Sister, I'll pretend to be a table. Thank you. Sister, I'll come back and thank you. Hello