Hello, my loves! Welcome back to Lavendaire. I have been manifesting for over a decade and I'm grateful enough to have lived to see my dreams come true Today, I would love to share my best tips for manifesting. How to manifest your dreams, your goals and anything you desire, This video is sponsored by Chime. More on that in a bit but first, let's define what &quot;manifesting&quot; is, to me manifesting is the process of aligning your energy, your intentions, and your very being to the reality that you desire in order to attract that reality to you and make it come true. The underlying concept is the law of attraction. Which I'm sure you've heard of by now but it's the concept that energy attracts. &quot;Energy&quot; meaning you are constantly attracting your reality based on what your energy and your intentions are. First off, if you want to manifest effectively, you need to understand the power of focus. This means that the more you're able to focus on what you want and know exactly what you want then the easier and faster that manifestation will come to you. Take some time to reflect on what it is you truly want. Do you really want this thing? Why do you want this thing and what is that thing? Get really clear and specific and as detailed as possible about your goals, about what you want to become your reality. The more you know all the details, the more you're going to be able to attract that reality to you. Too often with manifesting, people either don't know what they want or they try to manifest too many things at once or they get distracted and they change their minds, right? All of these things dilutes your manifesting power because there's more power when you are focused and when you are super clear and specific. Clarify exactly what it is you want and then stay laser focused on that desire. The next tip and this one is crucial, is that you must believe 100% you have to believe that what you're manifesting is going to happen. You must believe that it's already real now. I'm talking about your thoughts, your self-talk and your beliefs. They have to align really closely exactly with your desired reality that you're trying to manifest because if you deep down don't believe that it's true or that it's gonna happen then you create that gap, that gap like, oh, it's only a dream it's not reality and that's the gap where you're always going to be. Reaching for it but it never becomes reality because you don't truly believe it's your reality. It's all about learning to strengthen your beliefs and you do this through different ways there's so many different exercises. One is you really have to be aware of yourself talk and start to change your self-talk. If you notice any negativity or any lack of faith lack of belief, literally just start talking to yourself as if you're that person that you want to be if you were already that successful person, that person who's really confident, who lives an abundant life and has all these things that you want, what would you be saying to yourself in your mind? What would you believe about yourself? You wouldn't be saying things like, Oh, I feel so insecure.. I feel so small.. You would be like, No, I'm confident. I'm amazing. You would say all these positive things because that's the self-talk and the thoughts that go through your ideal version of you. Start to bring those thoughts into your awareness and start to shift them. The key is you want to find a way to incorporate these exercises into your daily routine so that you're doing it every day because only with that consistency can you truly begin to change your mind. For example, you can listen to positive affirmations every day. You guys know I create those positive affirmations audio for you guys. You can repeat affirmations or practice positive self-talk in the mirror. This is called mirror work, you can do positive affirmations while you're exercising or jogging. One thing that I used to do and sometimes do when I feel like it is, when I'm jogging, I will just have like a chance that's a positive affirmation that I'll say over and over again and it kind of goes along with the beat of my running or when I'm stretching or foam rolling I'll like put on a positive affirmations audio so that you know I'm multitasking. You can also use something like a candle to create a manifestation ritual where you use that candle to help you be intentional and focus on what you really want. What will you choose to manifest in 2023? Start the year with intention and take on your money goals with Chime the number one, most loved, banking app. Chime is an award-winning financial app and debit card that millions of Americans use to manage, save and spend their money. They're changing the way people feel about their money with tools to help you feel more confident about your financial future. Chime helps their members achieve financial peace of mind with fee-free overdraft on up to 200 on debit card purchases and cash withdrawals for eligible members with spot me and easy credit building tools. Another nice feature is that members can get paid up to two days early with direct deposit and there's no monthly fees or membership fees this year. Chime is taking it up a notch to empower more people to have a positive money mindset. That's why they teamed up with Apothecary to launch a ritual candle and guided manifestation practice by manifesting Ninja to help you shift your perspective around money. You can use this ritual to focus on your goals, level up your mindset, and of course manifest more money and abundance in your life. If you're ready to start manifesting and achieving your goals, Chime is giving away thousands of these money manifestation candles to lucky winners right now until January 25th with a sweepstakes to enter for your chance to win, Go to Chime.com/manifestnow and you can win your own money manifestation candle for 2023. Alright, the next tip is to use Theta state and meditation to help you manifest so theta state is the state where your brain enters when you're kind of between conscious and sleeping. It's right before you fall asleep and right when you wake up, you know when you're kind of like loopy and you're you're kind of in that dreamy state. That is kind of a window to your subconscious and if you're trying to change your limiting beliefs your beliefs in general that's a really great place to do so. That's a really great space to do positive affirmations and really try to manifest anything you want because you're bypassing the conscious mind, you're bypassing all those limiting beliefs and really your conscious mind is the brain that you know is really hardened in this reality but if you want to change your reality, you want to change deeper, you want to get into your subconscious mind, change your beliefs on a really deep level to match the reality that you're trying to manifest. Theta states can be entered like I said, before you go to sleep upon waking but you can also enter it through meditation. Meditation can also help you manifest effectively. As you're meditating, you can repeat your positive affirmations, you can change yourself talk, you can also do visualization when you're meditating. Visualization is visualizing your ideal future, visualizing that reality that you're trying to manifest and through meditation because you're kind of in that theta state, you're in that loopier state, like your brain believes it's real in a sense you're kind of training your brain to believe it's real and the more that your brain and your subconscious brain believes that it's real, the faster you're going to attract that to your reality. Meditation really is a powerful space for you to essentially rehearse your dream life. Take that time to visualize and feel how it would feel, feel is if you've already you know, reached that goal and thus that helps you strengthen your belief that that goal is real, it's going to happen or it's already happened and also once your mind knows exactly what that reality is in. All the details how it feels, how it looks, then it's going to look for clues, it's going to look for opportunities in your real life, and that's how you're able to manifest and attract things because your brain is aware like, Oh, this makes sense. This is very similar this or this is going to take me closer to that reality. Obviously, part of manifesting is the spiritual or energetic aspect but there's another part which is the psychological is that once something is top of mind, then you're gonna be like, Oh, like I know what to do. This is how I'm gonna get closer to that reality. It all works together. Something else you should definitely try is journaling and scripting to help boost your manifestations. This is one of my favorite ways to manifest. I love journaling and I also love scripting, I've been doing this for over a decade, I used to script and write in my journal, Oh, I am a YouTuber with over a million subscribers I have this in my home, I have.... and so, these were things that I used to write, either in my journal or I would keep it on my notes on my phone and re-read it to myself. Essentially memorize what I wrote so that I can really feel it in my bones. This is my life, right? Scripting is journaling in the present tense. As if you already are living that dream life, as if you already have that desired reality. Again, you want to be as specific and detailed as possible when you're scripting. You want to lean into all the five senses, like in this reality, What are you seeing, smelling, tasting, touching, feeling? You want to kind of lean into it and try to make it feel as real as possible, really stretch your imagination and really try to put yourself in the shoes, in the mind of that person that you really want to become. Living the life that you really want to live and if you want to supercharge it even further don't just do this once, fill this into a habit. Maybe do a daily or weekly where you spend some time scripting your desired reality. It could just be like five minutes a day, you could just write a journal entry as if you have achieved that goal and each day, you could think of a different aspect of your life, Today, what are you cooking in this desired reality? What award did you receive? or I don't know. It just depends on what's important to you, who's in your life? who are you hanging out with today? Today, write it as if it's happening in the present tense. Another thing that I like to do is I like to set the tone own and the mood when I'm journaling to help me get into that flow state. I love putting on like piano music, relaxing music, meditation music, when I'm journaling. Kind of set the environment I can help my brain enter flow state. Flow state is where you're in the zone and your brain is not like consciously thinking You're just like flowing, I love getting into that state I believe that one is called beta state where your brain has beta waves that is also really helpful for manifesting. Just getting into that zone and then scripting while you're in that zone because you're literally feeding your brain the details of your desired reality and that really helps you manifest and attract it. By the way, if you already know what you want to manifest, I would love to kick off this exercise and have you guys start scripting in the comments down below. You don't have to write a lot but maybe write like one or two sentences in the present tense of what you're trying to manifest. My next tip to help you supercharge your manifestations is to declutter your life. What does decluttering have to do with anything, right? Know that your space holds energy, all the things that you have hold energy and sometimes we just have too much clutter in our lives that there's so much like stagnant energy there's a lot of like energy from the past whether things like have an emotion tied to it or a past memory tied to it. When you are ready to manifest something new, change your life for the better. It's a good idea to declutter because that way you are kind of letting go of the energy of your past you and you're making space for the new you. It's all to help this energy shift you also like shake things up when you declutter your space just because you know, the energy has been this way for a while but when you declutter, you wake up the energy a little bit Anyway, decluttering has really been a big part of my journey. I remember in 2015, when I first decluttered everything in my life, I literally felt a physical shift of Oh, like I said goodbye to the old me and new opportunities started coming, my YouTube channel started doing better and I just felt more free and confident. I feel like it's so underrated. Decluttering can help you make that energetic shift. Another thing that I've been getting into this year is feng shui. I had that podcast with Clifton. On my podcast, I'll link it down below if you haven't listened to it. I've been learning tips and tricks of feng shui just to make your space have more balanced energy. Make sure you're not blocking Qi or blocking opportunities from coming into your life. It could just be the way just shifting your space, changing things up, decluttering, letting go of the things that you don't need, that you know that don't serve you. All of that can bring positive of change and bring new energy and help you manifest the future ideal version of you much faster. The next tip is to take aligned action. Manifesting is a lot of these preparation, priming your mind, setting intentions, journaling all these things, right? but it's never gonna happen, it's not gonna come true unless you take action. Obviously you have to do some physical work in the real world but what I mean by taking aligned action is that every action you take is intentional, every action is fueled by all the intentional work that you've been doing up to this point. Meaning a lot of people live their lives like on autopilot and they are taking action, they are crossing off things on their to-do list but it's very unconscious and unintentional so it doesn't really bring them where they want. Taking aligned action means you're starting with that clear vision. Being super clear. Detail specific on exactly what you're trying to manifest. You have the energy that believes it's possible, that believes it's real. Then you follow through and you take action aligned to all of those intentions and aligned to that energy. You take action trusting that when you show up the universe will also show up for you. You do 50% the universe does 50% I don't know if it's always 50/50 but you know what I mean, you gotta do some work, you got to put in the work, you got to put in the time, and the effort. But you know to have the right energy and the right mindset as you go about these things and just trust that everything will happen on its own time. Moving on, the next tip is to have gratitude always. Always stay grateful. Always have a practice of gratitude. You want to practice gratitude daily, not just because it will help you become a happier person but also because it will help your manifestations come true faster because if you think about it, if you're ungrateful for your life and if you're not happy with your life right now, that is the energy that you're feeling and that you're emitting. Having that negative energy is going to attract more negative energy around you. Stay grateful. When you're grateful, you lift your energy up. You start to see things you find more joy in the little things, and it's only by having that mindset, and having that like habit of living that you attract things so much easier. It's all about having the right energy because you want to attract good things to you. Also consider that the version of you that has all these things that you're trying to manifest, that version is probably very grateful and very positive and very you know, all these good things. You want to embody those feelings. Now, in order to faster attract all good things to you. My final tip I'll share today is to surrender and trust. This one can be extremely hard for a lot of us I get it, I know, you just want things to happen right away but surrendering and trusting is learning to be patient, learning to let go of the outcome, learning to let go of how your manifestation will come to you and the timeline at which this manifestation will come to you. It's learning to let go of a lot of things and just trusting that everything is happening as it should, everything is happening for your greatest good, and just you know, once you've done everything that you can, everything that you can control, the scripting the meditation, the decluttering. You know, all of that that we talked about today, taking action. After you've done all of those things, then you just have to let it go and then you just have to be patient because there's nothing more you can do. Don't try to force it, the more you try to force it and the more that you're just trying to control it the harder it is going to be for you. Just let go, trust that you have everything you need within you. The more you feel at ease, the more you feel detached, and the more you feel like Oh, it's gonna happen.. I'm relaxed. You know, that relaxed energy. Knowing it will come, trusting it will come, that's the best kind of energy that you want to embody. Okay, it's not about that anxious Oh my god, is it gonna happen?! Am I gonna get it?! It's about calm confidence and patience. Alright, I hope today's tips were helpful. Make sure you subscribe to this channel if you haven't already. I make videos on personal growth and lifestyle design. Also let me know, What was your favorite tip or exercise from today's video? Comment down below. I'll see you in the next one. Love you so much Bye. Thank you.