Hey. What's up? I'm We are right in the middle Coast Guard and all the crazy stuff Like we've already looked at We've looked at the science and there's a ton of other cool stuff That's incredible, But today we're going to look at one It's called the Response Boat Medium. This thing is incredible. It's a 45 foot long, that has like hyper maneuverability. It can do all kinds of different things. So instead of me like I just go look at some of the public and let's look at a few clips Check this out. Here's some flare imagery some survivors The response boat medium. The RBM arrives on scene This is the bread and butter of what It gets out to the scene fast Here's another example of it Here you can see the RBM evacuating a person off of a cruise ship This one's pretty interesting. Here you can see an RBM 24 miles off the coast of Texas. In this one, working behind the RBM around the sailboat The ended up Although most times there are other times when people Here we can see a guy out It seems to be very loaded down Unfortunately, This is a drug runner and here you can see an RBM on the flare He's probably saying something like, And you can see. That the drug runner. Says, No, thank you, and I'm going to go At that point, the highly trained Coast and start neutralizing the outboard motors And you can tell that they are at that point, more interested in the chat So today I am super excited to continue and we're going to try to learn everything The RBM lets go get smarter every day. So I went down to Destin, Florida station Destin I learned how to finger whistle. That's always fun. Holy cow. Are you serious? It's an amazing thing to see and you'll see that in an upcoming video. Okay, let's get things started. Cory Palmer, who's the senior chief over my first introduction to the RBM. We're going to walk out there an overview of what it is Have the jet drive, correct? Yes. I've never interacted with the jet drive, So we have an on. Yes, sir, we can hop on Cool. Oh, wow. Got some insulation here for the sun. Yeah, for the sun. Keep things a little cooler. This is actually one of our one of Which is a plus when you're out here, down here, Kind of use it for just that. If we bring a lot of people on board You've got rudimentary kitchen And you had a microwave that helps us out. We also have a head in here. Oh, So this is like kind of the center I like to open up these hatches for you. Yeah. Tool there. Yeah. Oh, wow. So he's obviously another one, just like. Beast. Yeah. This is a Detroit diesel. Yeah. Also empty you six cylinder diesel engine. 825 horsepower for both engines. It moves a lot of water. So how fast can these go? This or do anywhere Golly. Yeah. This is a lot of boat to go that fast. Yeah, very maneuverable. It can also stop very quickly. Because you can throw down that Buckets. Buckets? Yeah. So you've got the jet Yeah. When you're going forward, And then when you want to go reverse the bucket forward. I get a closer look at this bucket design. When I saw an RBM up on blocks Alabama, when Lieutenant Trevor Vallet Here we are at the back These are two what you call them, jet Jet drives. Okay. So I can tell that it's clearly moving But look at this. So it's got this I don't know what you call this a scoop. The fluid can come here and then it gets So that would pull the boat backwards What's the intake? So the water. Oh, wow. So the water goes in there it'll divert it and it can go backwards. So down here, this is the the lazeret. This is the what. The lazeret. It is it okay if I go. In there? Yes. And what is the purpose of the lazeret? It this is it's So the controls for those buckets At, this is all hydraulics, right? Yes. So these are. We call them what the little solenoids are actuators Oh, that's awesome. The little valves. Oh, so that whole thing is a It's like a manifold. Yeah. And then those go in and out and I can see Yeah. That's awesome. That kind of tape taper portion This one right here. Yes. Uh huh. That is where the the impeller kind of shaft Yeah. And there's a big impeller in there or a little propeller, That spinning and that's that's So you've got two controls here. One of them in my. Correct and saying And then the other one, Yeah. You're steering. Oh that's not tell you what direction That's amazing. That's really cool. This folds out, right? That folds up. Up. And then you can You can walk down. If you look on this side, it's Oh, hey, fish. Yeah, okay. And why would you want to walk down? Because you want to get down here the other boat. Yeah, like if someone was in the water, it's You want to be as close to the water. So when you're getting them up, Doing that from up So this You have a. Human right there. Yeah. So that means steering Instead of a steering wheel, There's this boat can actually drive And those buckets will do their thing. And make the boat The next morning, I got to go out to the RBMs were getting the boats Now, the interesting thing for me more like preflight then getting a boat Okay, this is Ortiz and Machachi. Well, what are your ranks? And K three and K three. And I'm a seaman. What are we doing? It's a pre-mission Okay, cool. We're going to. Secure the shore. Power of shore power is Well, while it's at the pier, Turn the alarm off. Come back here, She's going to go down in the middle. Check the engine oil. Make sure that we have enough How are you doing that, Ortiz? I'm just untightening this, and then go ahead and pull the normal dipstick. Yes, just check it. It's good. Little low. That's good. It's halfway. Done over. Here, checking it back. So I'm check in regular oil. So it's all. It's all 15 w 40 and all three of the oil. So we're going to check up. So check the radiator oil We're going to check the jet drive. Well, she's right here. It's good if you check in the other engine Yes, just got done. Good to go. There's basically just a big jet ski. Big jet ski. Yeah, I love it. It's great. So Justin just took short power away. Which engine was the starboard? Starboard. Okay, it's like three fourths. It's not. Okay, I'm going to put oil in it. Yeah. So once we're done with that, to the vector So it's right against this bulkhead here. And that gives a steering of propulsion It's right here. This little guy. There you are. And I check with discharge through so we look in these holes here, That means you got raw water. Discharge that hole right there. Yep. That's what I hear as well. You check it for water Exactly. Yeah. I'll come in here And once these green lights the generators are synchronized It's a 120 vac We've got 12 volts And then over here is our AC bus and then since we're synchronized there, you start firing everything on. Do you love this. I love this. Yeah. This is good stuff. Yes. This is our yes, this is our chart Is he getting the boat ready for you? For the crew. Yeah. We're going know who's driving the deck, What's the official term for that You're the coxswain today. Yeah. Do you love it? As much as he loves I think I do So when I go left, go all the way left. Yeah, and so on, you know, and then so if I bring those back, I'll And one, I. Can also change the interceptors, Us on plane whoa. Second all, How are you doing this? So when you want to check You bring the buckets all the way forward, and then you pull this down, and that You can actually plane out the boat. You plane out the boat with those things, Exactly. Yeah. We're going to check Yeah, we're on the boat, And then we got a spotlight up top Yeah. Can can we Yeah, yeah, yeah. Can you open the inspection? So yeah, some crack all the way forward. Buckets are up to the jam. Just go straight back now. He's in full reverse. Gotcha. That's amazing. So that's something you can watch. If you look down on the lazeret, so this is the steering, Yeah, this is the reversing bucket. So when you say this steer nozzle, Yeah. So the nozzles move like this. Can we see the bucket move? Yeah. Wow. Oh, dude I see it! Yeah. So this is a Yeah. And you have this. Linkage You that the bucket actually went back. Yeah. This this is why this is showing you where the bucket is. Now, this is what all the hydraulic fluid Yeah. And in this is what actually controls Why do you have two valves on this side when you get three on this side, So that manifold actually. So there's only one piston It's on that side right behind you. This one is the only controlling bucket for the starboard side down there. Gotcha. That one's got a steering bucket. And after that steering grab Yeah. I want to show this right here. Yeah, that's the whole thing My goodness. Sidearm. So you got one. You got one hydraulic actuator, and these Exactly. Yep. It's going to just sit here So it makes them both operate in parallel. So when you. Say adjust it so that you adjust trim They're running parallel with each other. So what you can do is you can come out for just but for some reason You can, you can change, So where the nozzles are like this will either be like this, like that, So right now they're perfectly aligned. You're sitting on. Yeah, this is the raw water strainer. Yeah. And there's one over here. So that's the that's the other filter. Dude, I have to get your picture Yeah. So you're ready so it's a great. Picture, dude. So. And he's doing right now. We're going to get oil samples we will test the limits, like. All right, well, falling ball the fuel. Is this the same thing? Like, you take you take it's a metal ring and then a ball is falling on it, and then you measure how much it rubs So hours it's three balls. One goes into a clean oil sample. Okay. And to go into the dirty oil or, Sample time thing, it's So the clean oil, the ball will go much The two others compared to the clean oil dilution you have. Oh, wow. So it's it's it's very analog. So they finish getting everything And we got underway. Ortiz, you tell me where to be, okay? To show how maneuverable everything can be just We have it's called docking mode. We can drive sideways. So I'm going to go I'm going to keep my ball on I'm going to drive sideways. So he has the ability to go So the boat can go Basically, his steering nozzle The other the other joystick will control the front, Yeah. Basically what's happening So one bucket is facing board and one bucket is facing aft. So that just gives you the ability Donuts in the water. So he's just keeping his. Nose And then just going straight around it. So this one here is my propulsion. So for this, for propulsion, is back propulsion. And then if I want to go side to side, Yeah, whatever it is, I just turn it all the way to one side. It's move it straight to one side, you know, it's my back because it's pushing the boat Yeah. I'll go the other direction. and the So what is the one on the left? Steering, steering. But you have to have forward momentum Is that correct? Not true. So with a jet drive, it's kind of always So I have no propulsion engage. I can still turn my tiller all the way Got to pivot. Got it. There are only three variables And it's incredible. You've got engine speed, you've got By using these three variables, with this boat. Let's dove into it. Okay, let's start with the obvious. We have two jets and each of those can provide thrust We can move the boat forward But because we can control we also have the ability which means we can rev up one of the engines higher than the other And we can create an imbalance which will result in a torque or rotation So are we rotating or are we rotating about the center It's complicated. All that being said, that we're working with here What are the other ways You remember down in the lazeret, both They move in tandem. So that creates a way that we can create the thrusters, and it creates rotation So angling those thrusters Now we get to the really fun thing we can do, and that's unique to jet boats If we drop a bucket down It will split and redirect And this can pull the boat backwards. This is why the RBM can stop so fast. The fact that you can be moving along at cruising engine speed down into the propulsive jets And you can go to full power forward on engine changes. You're by putting that bucket down in the flow this large in such a short distance, That is incredible. What's the LCD display here? You can see the position that the buckets are up and starboard When they want to stop, they simply drop the buckets the RBM into reverse It's like power breaking. The buckets can also be used separately. If you put one bucket down with equal flow you could put the boat into a spin The non bucketed jet would push and the bucket of jet would pull In this instance, both engines direction, resulting in a rotational force The bucket positions in the rotation and the boat would rotate Okay, so the fact that we can drop in independently that's huge, right? You can do so much just with that, within those buckets that opens up a whole new level. This was the aha moment for me Let's say we wanted to move sideways If we put the port side bucket down we would have forced from the buckets but there would be this angular rotation Thankfully, we have the starboard side the boat forward and create angular So now by also adjusting we can create a balanced maneuver sideways with the ability If we wanted to go sideways the other direction, we could angle the steering and we could adjust the engine speed All this maneuverability It's incredible. And now you can see why they need because what it's doing is it's taking and the computer to give the desired outputs or try to do Bonus, by the way, there's this thing called interceptors. There's like these little wings that control the trim of the boat, they can dip one of these into the water. And there's so much. This is an awesome boat. And now you can see why It's fantastic. So I'm going to come out. Okay. Well, coming up, I I. Coming up. Machachi So you're looking for people Yeah. Any boats. Any jet ski that I can really see, Well, make sure we're not going to hit hes moving fast. You're looking out as well. Yeah, I'm checking radar, He's going to keep his eyes open. He's not looking just to make it. There's no boats that come out of nowhere. What's your hand on over there? Is that the traffic control? What is that? This is the exact same that he has got it just so you can switch controls to either Okay, this comes down. I can drive from here. Got it. So this right here is. Is running normal. And this is what happens when You can tell the. The displacement of the water So if you bring the way, water will move back up, What? You have a camera Yeah, you can see the CCTV camera. Are you serious? Yeah. So that's for when umm. That's like some spaceship stuff, man. That's legit. So whenever anything goes we have something called a becky Just not because I love how excited you. I'm just really excited about your camera So every time something goes wrong, it's all right. We have a checklist. Yeah. Yeah. These are all problems. You go into the index, your table contents find, which everyone is going to be. So main engine, high water temperature. Actually, We'll do the foul water jet. Okay, so a foul water jet number 23. This is. You want to run this becky So first thing's first and we'll come down oh, hot water Pretty much. We come back make sure there's no line so we don't see any we're in clear water. Everything looks good out here, Plus hes going to bring it up to 1200 those intake grates I was telling you about more water and through the nozzles So in that case, you know, it didn't clear that I would go down in the lazeret and would say, you know, Yeah. All it to do is pull this lever up and switch around all over there. It's going to use the strainer instead. And then when we get back later, well. It's literally a valve. That's it. Now we're on the other strainer We're going to go, okay, by engaging. Engaging I. We get in the way. We usually do at least a few. Beckys is making its basic so it's how we train for And so when it does happen, We already do exactly what we need to in case we miss anything, But, you know, it's The RBM can do way more than we discussed It's got an onboard flair to help to operate in crazy icy I found both the RBM in the young men and women Like the RBM these folks are versatile, As we return to base, with Justin, who also likes photography Maybe excited about our future leaders like this are coming up You're only 20 years old. I just turned 21 actually. Oh, wow. That's amazing. Yeah. So it's like. It's like fast forwarding your life. Yeah, it's. It's a very definitely a fast track. Ortiz. Yes. Do you mind me. Asking how old you are? I just turned 20. Really? Yeah. You feel like I mean, I love it. It's preparing me. If this is a lot, for whatever comes to me. What do you want to be like? You want to make a career out of this you said you wanted me out of my HOLD ON We got to go we have to go back to station we have to spot something off shore Station Destin had received a call and since we were so close to the station, and pick up one of their local My buddy George was at the station in, so he turned on his iPhone From his. Perspective. On deck actually just. What was the call was taking on water. Now they can't get a hold of him. Natalie. sleep Guy called in about a capsized vessel at this position. They can't. Six miles offshore, south of Sarah's Nice to meet you. All right, well, I didn't get to say goodbye. Because they're going to try thank you very much. Coast Guard station Destin. This is quite the experience. I hope they find him. This episode of Smarter So Kiwi Co is a really cool setup. They send this box to your house and all the instructions are right there. They get to go through everything and get to learn about science, It's amazing. My kids have straight up Check it out. Koala crate. Who's that? Here you can see my kids I don't like seeing this because that And yes, Kiwi Co Does a great job of. Helping them and preparing them for whatever They get self-confidence. They do a thing themselves. When they get done, they look at you But that means that they're growing But if you want to try this, You get 30% off There are nine different lines of Kiwi all kinds of different topics. You're going to love this. Go check it out on the website. I love the fact that they love Kiwi co, and I love everything they've learned And it's been a part of our lives. Like as my kids are growing It's been a huge part of our journey I think it'd be great for you as well. Kiwi co. com slash smarter 30 that gets you 30% off any crate Thank you so much to Kiwi for supporting smarter every day Supporting the sponsor. Why did you choose tell me straight up Ortiz. Well they're only offering chairforce jobs and huge long contracts and I didn't even know if yeah in the chair force for that long so I mean I'm I'd rather be on the water so I'm so glad I picked the Coast Guard. Honestly. Why? Because you're actually. I'm doing stuff. I'm not I'm not like I'm You know, you're there. You did you just call the Air Force No, they're not useless. I'm just saying, I feel like I actually I feel like I actually, like, help here. I don't I don't know if I would help She's making fun of the Air Force How are we going to publish this, man? Oh. I don't know. But I think I think the Coast Guard does, in my experience, you know, some people do Oh, yeah, for sure. I mean, we always get made No one really knows what we do. But usually when we get made fun of, listen, And we have our own apartment We don't eat at the back, We're living our best life. Oh, golly. Ortiz is slinging the fire. Okay. All right.