- All right everybody, say hello to Tom Holland, Give it up! (audience cheers) Well, Merry Christmas y'all. I saw the movie last night, I just had to lead with I'm a Marvel fan. It's one of my favorite It was so good. Well done, but Who's got a holiday tradition. - My dad and I always liked at Christmas time. He always buys these of port and we go through So that's something I'm - Wait, wait. He buys what? - Port, like- - I was wondering the same thing. - I don't know why I'm doing this. It's because it comes in a box. - Oh, no I couldn't. It sounded poor. I didn't know what you were saying. Port. Your really cute accent, Port. I was like, what? Your dad does something with poor? I was like, what? (laughs) That's awesome. The little tiny ones. That's awesome. I know - Yeah, it comes in like - Yeah, yeah. You gotta taste Well, Jacob, did you get Tom and Zendaya Christmas gifts yet? Did you get them gifts yet? - Yeah? - The funny thing is on the show, but so sorry but I wanted to gift them I wanted to actually give on your coffee table. If that was possible. - So Jacob, you are a re-gifter That's what we're saying here? 'Cause I was gonna give you mugs and you're just gonna re-package 'em up and re-gift them. (laughs) - I thought it was an amazing because I think that being on the Kelly Clarkson Show is amazing. - [Tom] It is amazing. Very Exciting. - So, you know, I think that - Nice clean up. - [Kelly] Jacob just stole my I will send you all mugs. Did y'all get Jacob I'm calling all of you out right now. - We got him a lifetime of friendship- (audience laughs) - [Zendaya] And that should be enough. - I knew it. Exactly. Thank you. - And, the number one movie in the year? (all laugh) - We actually, we wanted to get each other like a commemorative gift for like being in these movies. We've done these movies together. We've grown up together since So, we wanted to get like - Right. - Not a really holiday gift, but like a special thing that we all had. Like a friendship bracelet. - Like a tattoo. Get a tattoo. (laughs) That you will regret in years. (laughs) He got a web. Y'all should all get a web. - We've just been too busy - Right. - Today is our last day of work together. It's actually really sad. - Oh my gosh. - So maybe after this today other a present. - Yeah. Maybe that's what we'll do - And now it's a forced friend You're welcome. So what was it like to be a part of just something so grand? This is such a huge Marvel - I mean, I think I can Even while we were making the movie, we understood how and in turn how important of Spider-Man, and Marvel. We'd walk on set and certain things would certain scenes and you could on the set. The crew as well were like of the stuff that we were doing. So, it did feel incredible even more incredible now to be sharing it with the world because on these secrets for two we're all so tired of lying. - Also, it's just nice to be able to talk about it with people. - Yeah. - I know that's, I'm dying. I don't wanna spoil it for anybody, but I'm dying to tell everyone. So, just literally go see about it, people. So wait, Jacob, I have to ask you. So you and Tom lived together So, what's he like as a roommate? - Yeah. I feel like we're pretty good. Yeah. We're like, it wasn't like. It was a frat house in some ways, but we weren't like trashing the place and being like disrespectful. I mean, sometimes. But - It was a very sophisticated frat house. - Okay. - It was very grown up. - This is the reason why I wasn't there. - I love that you led that You are my favorite, Jacob. (laughs) You re-gift, you love frat Jacob, you're welcome any time here. At 25, y'all, Zendaya has I'm such a big fan. I'm She's an executive producer, author, the youngest person to win an Emmy for outstanding lead actress. (audience cheers) So, I'm just saying I'm such a big fan. I literally love everything you do. You don't, you're not getting you because y'all ended because I wrote you a card. I was just such a big fan of y'all as well. It's just look, I'm a I'm like really into her. So anyway. So anyway, my point is though, is like, you've accomplished so Like, what else do you really wanna do? Do you have like a list that Like... - Well, I just wanna say really quickly, me and my mom love you, and she wanted me specifically So Mom, I'm saying, hi for you too. - Yes, I am a hit with the moms. - She's like, she's so - Oh my god, tell her I said what up? - [Zendaya] Okay, okay, I will. I there's so many things. I mean, there's so many and I think the most important thing, and I think what I try it's kind of a corny answer, but it's like your what makes you happy and brings And I think if you kind then you really can't go wrong. So I always say like in the I hope so because it's but maybe something else Maybe there's other I love directing. I was able to shadow John him work and be, and put of work together, which but, you know, every day And I mean, there's so but as long as I feel for myself, I think that - Yeah. That's awesome. That's literally like that's starting like into the industry. I'm like, don't chase it, Like, chase your dreams. That's so important and that's probably why you're killing it. So Zendaya, I actually So last year you said you have a heavy responsibility in Hollywood. So what does that mean to you? I feel like we all have our own, like everyone on the anyone under the spotlight, I feel like you have a all felt differently. So what do you feel like yours is? - I was talking about the don't want to be, I don't so much as through trying to help people along their journey, trying to find the best - Yeah- And I think, yeah, I think everyone's path is different. Everyone's life is different and it's hard to compare yourself to anyone else because there's no other view. You are the best version of who you are, because there's no one else like you. - Very true. - And embracing that and that I feel like is my when I have an opportunity for others to make space for other people who don't necessarily have the access that I've been granted and I can to help someone Do you know what I mean? - Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. You know what I wanna ask is, I wanna ask this because we all know you as actors, So I wanna ask you all this, like Zendaya, like, of working with like Tom or Jacob? Like, what's the best - What's the best part of - Okay, buckle up, Jacob. - I'm ready. - No, I would say honestly, we have so much fun together. And that's not even just like Like, a lot of people say, we have a good time. Like we actually barely get work done. (audience laughs) Like I feel bad for John sometimes. I do the best I can as the keep us together. but we just love each other - I think for me, it's how safe we feel on set. When we're doing these films and you're really on the has to offer, it's nice to be able that you feel very comfortable with. People that feel like family, people that have your back, you know. We really do do everything together and we've lived together, and we've made these movies, we've experienced things, our So for me, it's our friendship this wouldn't have been without you guys. And I hope I speak for Right, guys? - Yes. (Kelly laughs) - Jacob... Okay, wait, Jacob. I'm So be honest, after making you really do when you in real life? A, kill it? B, try to take it outside? Or C, scream and have Jacob, go. - So basically my girlfriend is really, really not about hurting animals. So I had to learn to like, to just not be afraid girl and like try to pick of lead it out the window. So I guess I do number two, but inside I'm doing which is screaming like a little girl. - I just simply love that I got you to say I do number two and three sometimes. (audience laughs) Jacob, my God. I love you. So, wait. So, wait, Zendaya, what What do you do, A, B or C? Do you kill it? Do you take it out or do you scream and go somebody get that? - I do D. I just ignore it. I just let it be. - You ignore it. - I'm just gonna leave it there. Look away, you look back, It's gone. It's not my problem any more. (audience laughs) - What if it crawls up on - Well the difference is is of the spiders in England can kill you. You have spiders here that can kill you. - Did you know spiders when you sleep? - It probably happens all the time, bro. - Yes. So you should definitely Maybe not kill it, but like get rid of it. - I definitely take them I don't like... I think - Really? - To kill one or to leave it outside? - Yeah, if you find one I don't kill bugs in my house. I take them outside, just a general rule. I try to convert people - You are good like that. I just see them as like little guests. I'm like, welcome to the house, mate. (audience laughs) - Can I get you anything? - [Zendaya] Your house - Yeah, I love it. - But also, as Spider-man, I feel like you cannot kill spiders. - You know somewhere I always see spiders and it's really weird? In my car. - They think it's a nice car. - I'll be driving along. On the dashboard. - Wait, I love that this angle, you can see my socks and my sweatpants. (audience laughs) (Kelly laughs) - My god, actually, Zendaya, we couldn't see that at all here. That is so awesome. (laughs) I love Zoom. Oh my God, that was me for I literally had like a blouse, and like yoga pants I didn't Like it was awesome. That was amazing. Well, we need a break, but 'cause there's no But first we've got an early of our friends at IMAX. Everyone in our audience two tickets to see &quot;Spider-Man: (audience cheering) All right, y'all. &quot;Spider-Man: No Way Be sure to check it out.