Today, we are back in Cairo, Egypt. You will never get bored of this country, And its people's stories never end. But today, we are visiting It's one hour and a half away from Cairo. I always heard of it It is called Al Sharqiya. Huda and Muhamed ...where its people We drove for an hour and a half who are so different. Two of the tallest people in the world... My name is Muhamed Shahata Abdeljawad, ...but they are a little forgotten. My height is 2.47 m. Their sizes are unusual, but Guinness Record Let's learn more about their story. Look, there is almost no gap, When I walk like this, I can't go through. -So you can't stand there? If I stand up straight, See, here I am under the fan. -You mean it happened suddenly? I was normal when I was 14, 15 years old. I could drive the car I could work and hang out Then all of a sudden Suddenly my feet started getting bigger I'm getting taller, and the clothes are expensive, He can reach the roof and the fan. He can't turn on the fan I use a cardboard as a hand fan, because I can't turn on the fan. I sleep here, I have to sleep right here. -And once you stood up... When you lay down, -Yes. Yes. -Is this your Mom? -Nice to meet you. They exhausted, didn't they? A little bit, because their father died -And you took care of them alone? We suffered a lot. but he contracted polychondritis -How old is he? Yes. I'm 34 years old. -And how tall is your sister? -Have you worked before? No one wants to hire me. Nobody cares about us. If someone cared about me, I have no source of livelihood at all. I wish to have a source of livelihood I wish to have something to make a living, -Did you finish your studies? He is 2,47 m and still getting taller, After two years, His height is close to the height who is 2.51, Sultan, Do you know Sultan, He's 3 cm taller than me. 3 cm! Sultan, the Kurdish man The man who walks with a crutch? You should get the third Yes. He's 3 cm taller than me. We must make this video reach My feet are still getting bigger. They are still getting bigger. My hands as well. My hands were normal. They are still getting bigger as well. You mean, all your body Yes, it's increasing My name is Huda Shahata, and I'm 2.40 m. I'm Muhamed's sister. Did your condition begin Since the age of 12 years. Since the age of 12 years. Since the age of 12! We were the tallest two in the class. Due to the increase in his hormones, -Yes. -But you need someone to take care of you. When we visited Sultan, he was getting -and the people around him. Give me your hand. Do you see the difference? This could be the biggest hand in Egypt! Did you see the difference He can't get in the car. Look where his head is! We decided to get them a small gift. We will buy him a calf for him to raise. -What do you do when you get angry? -So, you don't take it out on people? -I just stay in the room. Exactly He locks himself when he gets angry, If Muhamed and Huda were on Instagram Whey don't we get recognized I hope Muhammad gets treatment. His sister sometimes can't even get up. You are kind people, may God bless you. They were born normal, but they started growing this way She hated school, but he continued. God bless you. Thank you. May God bless your heart. Thank you. We went out with Muhamed here in Al Sharqiya, Let's go. We're trying to do something simple Since we came all the way here. Anything simple We will surprise him, to make him happy. Okay, we will surprise him now. Does it have a beard? Is it a religious calf? -Dutch calf. They call it Dutch calf. -It will give birth to more calves, right? Thank you so much. -let him take it for you. It's okay, I'll take it myself. -Will it walk with me? Let's go. Congrats for the new calf. Go up. -Will it go up? Hi, Muhamed! We got this for you. -Are you happy? -It is something simple. What will you name it? -Name it? You will not name it? No, I will not name it. That's amazing. Thank you all. This was the story of Muhamed and Huda. Share this video so it reaches so that they know about them. Let's get them I'll leave their number for anyone who wants to help them. Thank you, Karim, Islam, and Ahmed Badawi, Thank you, people of Egypt.