Goodfellas is a classic of American cinema of the preeminent directors of all time. It also solidified many actors in the pantheon and Robert DeNiro. But there are certain aspects of the film In this video, we're going over a couple to make it into the final cut, as well as So stay tuned, as Facts Verse presents: The Spider's Death Scene moment that illustrates the ruthless nature Spider, a young and inexperienced gangster eventually shot by Tommy, played by Joe Pesci. While the scene is now considered one of the film, it almost didn't make it into the final The studio behind the movie was initially felt it was too violent and could potentially However, Scorsese was adamant that the scene He argued that the brutal nature of the gangster on screen, and that omitting the scene would Ultimately, Scorsese was able to convince and it has since become one of the most iconic The way the scene is shot, with its quick the tension and violence of the moment and Toning Down a Murder that Spider's death scene was vital and when it comes to the opening sequence. In it, Henry, Tommy, and Jimmy (aka Ray Liotta, in a car with what they presume to be the in the trunk. But when they arrive at their destination, Tommy takes it on himself to remedy the situation But as gruesome as that moment is, it's test audiences who saw the film. Apparently, the early cut had Tommy stabbing But test audiences were not pleased. Some reportedly walked out of the screening. This is not great news, considering it was The studio informed Scorsese that something So he trimmed the scene a bit. Instead of actually showing all seven stabbings, But at the same time, you can still hear the And while that doesn't' seem like a huge and future test audiences in their seats. Scorsese's Mom Almost Got Cut Out got cut out, and it would have potentially His mother, Catherine Scorsese, made a memorable The role was small but powerful, and Catherine matriarch who is loving, if not a bit overbearing She hosts a dinner party for Tommy and his tension-filled scene. The character of Tommy, played by Joe Pesci, outbursts, and his mother's overprotective of the scene. But apparently, the studio felt that it wasn't And they felt it slowed down the pacing too. So they suggested it be cut. But in this case, the scene was actually saved It was a near-unanimous hit as a scene for position and kept it in the movie. Which probably meant fewer awkward family Scorsese Had The Music In His Head featuring classic tracks from the 1950s and What many people may not know is that Scorsese filming even began. Scorsese had always been a fan of the music for Goodfellas, he would listen to his personal the right mindset. He even went as far as to incorporate the songs for certain scenes. When it came time to film, Scorsese already use and where they would fit in the story. He worked closely with music supervisor Robbie they were used in the most effective way possible. The result was a soundtrack that perfectly and has since become an iconic part of movie From The Ronettes' &quot;Be My Baby&quot; during the &quot;Gimme Shelter&quot; during the intense climax, as any of the actors on screen. Scorsese's use of music in his films has become cited as one of the best examples of this. The fact that he already had the soundtrack to his creativity and vision as a filmmaker continues to be celebrated as a masterpiece The "How Am I Funny" Scene is one in a restaurant where Henry Hill and Tommy asks Henry to tell him if he's funny, aggressive and demands that Henry say that The tension builds until Tommy finally reveals tense and uncomfortable. It's a powerful moment that showcases Pesci's in an instant. But it's made all the more striking by the event. Reportedly, in his early acting days, Pesci by mobsters. Before filming Goodfellas, Pesci recounted on a mobster, who said something mildly funny. Pesci, trying to appease the man, told him The mobster apparently didn't have a very The anecdote stuck with Pesci for years, and it was hilarious. So they wrote it into the script. And on the day, only Ray Liotta and Pesci Scorsese wanted the awkwardness and fear of they didn't know what was actually happening. The Famous Tracking Shot is quite a long one. It's the tracking shot that follows Henry Copacabana nightclub through the back entrance It's considered one of the most iconic shots According to various reports, the shot required with Scorsese and his crew spending several blocking the actors' movements. The actual shot was filmed on a Steadicam, carefully following the actors through the The shot reportedly took around eight takes actors to hit their marks perfectly and the the actors' movements. And according to Liotta, they finally nailed and comedian Henny Youngman. The characters were there to see Youngman Youngman was supposed to deliver one of his But he went up on the line, and the take was Fortunately, they were eventually able to is history! Record Setting Curses portrayal of organized crime and the harsh The film features a significant amount of In fact, the word is used 300 times in the than two uses per minute. The excessive use of profanity was controversial from some audiences and critics. However, Martin Scorsese defended the language to accurately depict the lifestyle and culture It's worth noting that the use of profanity cinema, and Goodfellas is often cited as a the boundaries of what was acceptable at the And Scorsese went on to break his own record is said 506 times. Now it's time to hear from you. Are you a fan of Goodfellas? Where does it rank for you in the list of Who is your favorite character? Let us know in the comments section below!