Today, most video game companies But before emulation went mainstream, It existed in a legal grey area and was hardly It was relegated to the video game underworld. But as more and more people video game emulators enjoyed To put it simply, emulation uses So, for example, gamers could play without owning a Nintendo Entertainment System. Early emulation software was glitchy, but it was free, and it exposed people all across North American gamers played titles never Players also got an inside look at how much especially the Nintendo titles. But was it all legal? Well, people weren't sure, but they News and updates came via message In 1994, a new beast entered the The PlayStation was Sony's first video game console, and it was one of the most By 1997, PlayStation emulators began appearing on However, these emulators didn't stack They suffered from compatibility Sony wasn't worried at all. The average video game player Sony figured emulation was too niche But that all changed in 1999 when two companies developed PlayStation emulators Bleem and the Connectix Virtual Game They were ready for prime time, and they weren't free. Suddenly, Sony didn't feel so safe, Bleem and Connectix took Sony head-on, But it was a classic case of money is power. In the end, Sony's persistent litigation and But their fight changed emulation forever, and We begin with a look at the In the world of Macintosh, the Formed in 1988, Connectix was best which allowed Windows to run on a Mac. In 1998, programmer Aaron Giles joined the company. He worked previously on Mac ports of various titles On the side, Giles spent up to 20 hours a week He felt right at home on Connectix's Virtual PC team. One day over lunch, Giles mentioned that he'd recently including PSEmu Pro. It got him thinking about creating a Management at Connectix was on board. A successful emulator could be a huge moneymaker. At the time the Macintosh game market was pretty dry. This could blow it up. During development, Giles stumbled that explained the operations of He also found a copy of the Connectix had a working prototype within a few weeks. The emulator could boot up to the It was groundbreaking. No company had ever attempted a But if Connectix wanted to make the They set up a meeting with Sony in hopes During the meeting, Connectix showed the emulator Crash Bandicoot. A Sony executive then asked if the &quot;Of course,&quot; Giles said. His team hadn't verified the compatibility The Sony executive put him to the test when that contained hundreds of North Luckily for Connectix, it was Ridge Racer, one of the few titles that worked on the emulator. The meeting seemed to go well, but Connectix left Sony headquarters with bad vibes. In October of 1998, they received the news: Sony would not allow them to use their BIOS. But that didn't stop Connectix. Their solution? Eliminate the BIOS entirely. Giles and his team analyzed the functions of the Their version was even faster than Connectix hoped they were in the clear. At the Macworld expo in January of 1999, Steve JOBS: Now, this is another game machine. It's the most popular game machine in the world. Wouldn't it be great if we [Crowd laughing] Well, at Macworld today, Connectix is introducing the Virtual Game Station. It is software... NORM: The Virtual Game Station but it had the best compatibility They regularly released compatibility updates, and they were careful to not step on Sony's toes. The software could only play games using However, modders released patches The Virtual Game Station was a hit. Priced at $49.99, more than 3,000 copies sold one every 30 seconds. But during the expo, several members of Sony's Three weeks later, Sony sued including copyright infringement, patent But Connectix didn't scare easily. They fought the case, and even started The trial was scheduled for the following year, but with Virtual Game Stations flying off the shelves, Sony was in no mood to sit around. They applied for a temporary restraining order, but on February 5, 1999, they were denied. It was an early victory for Connectix. The Virtual Game Station remained on store shelves, where it had grossed more than $3 million. But the war was not over. Meanwhile, Giles and his co-workers were deposed. They were asked about their reverse engineering efforts and the source of the various documents that Just two months later, on April 22nd, a judge granted Sony a preliminary Judge Charles Legge thought that when it was not fair use. He also felt that the Virtual Game Station Therefore, the case had merit, and a The preliminary injunction halted any further It was a huge blow to Connectix. Any momentum Connectix had was destroyed. With the product disappearing The software became the victim of rampant piracy. But on February 10, 2000, an appellate court decision but determined the legality of emulation. Judge William Canby, Jr. ruled that the methods were necessary to gain access to unprotected Connectix didn't copy any of Sony's code either. Therefore, Connectix's reverse engineering Judge Canby also reversed the decision In order to prevail on its tarnishment that the Virtual Game Station's existence brought Judge Canby found that there was Connectix was allowed to sell and even launch the Windows version. Major video game websites picked Emulation was no longer an underground phenomenon. The ruling legitimized hardware emulation and found that reverse engineering Three months later, Connectix Judge Charles Legge, the man who originally granted dismissed seven of Sony's nine claims. Sony hoped to take their last two and violation of trade secrets to the Supreme Court, but the Supreme Court refused to hear the case. Down but not out, Sony took a new tactic. In March of 2001, Sony acquired Connectix's Virtual Connectix gave them their software, all and deleted everything from their servers, and Sony discontinued the product. In the end, it worked out well for Connectix. By 2001, sales of Virtual Game thanks to its hiatus from the market and the From a business perspective, selling the After the sale, Aaron Giles was reassigned to In 2003, the product and its staff where Giles continues to work to this day. He says he's proud of the product and that developing the Virtual Game Station While the legal battle left a bad taste in his mouth, he does like to imagine that Sony used in their future products. But that remains a mystery. Connectix's battle against Sony set a huge But no company brought emulation Let's take a look. In late 1998, screenshots circulated of a It not only played PlayStation games, it enhanced them. It was known simply as Bleem, and it was created by veteran Linden had experience in video games and emulation. In 1988, he wrote a Commodore 64 Later he ported Dragon's Lair to the Amiga, What did Bleem stand for? That remains a mystery. But many refer to it as the Bleem seemed too good to be true. Some though Linden faked the leaked screenshots. The system requirements seemed optimistically low. Bleem needed a Pentium 166 MHz processor, which was more than two years old at the time, only 16 MB of RAM and just 3 MB of disk space. Incredibly, Linden promised Bleem took advantage of a computer's video smooth out textures, and more. But when the Bleem beta leaked in January of 1999, the doubters were silenced. It spread like wildfire. Users were amazed at how well Word spread that Bleem would soon On March 21st, they released a Bleem demo. They also opened up pre-orders on their website. Bleem suddenly seemed more and more legitimate. In an interview with IGN, Bleem president David Herpolsheimer was asked who had recently taken Connectix to Herpolsheimer confidently said no. For starters, Bleem was programmed legally. Linden had completely reverse engineered The software also required the actual so Bleem didn't promote piracy. Herpolsheimer also claimed Bleem only worked But none of this saved Bleem from Sony. On April 2nd, less then two Sony filed suit against Bleem for a variety of claims, including violation of intellectual This happened in conjunction with But unlike Connectix, Bleem was a brand new startup No one believed they could put up a Despite the David and Goliath dynamics, Gary Whitta of PC Gamer said: But Bleem surprised everyone In April, Sony attempted twice to get a temporary They were denied both times. Tensions reached a boiling point the following month, when Bleem suddenly released At their booth, they showed off footage Sony confronted them and a shouting match ensued. The expo asked Bleem to remove But this was a minor setback. Within the first month, Bleem sold more By July, it was in stores like Best Buy, The following month they Judge Charles Legge denied Sony's request He did, however, state that Bleem could not use Bleem quickly appealed that decision. In December, Bleem struck back. They counter-sued Sony for anti-competitive They also began work on a new version of Bleem that On May 4th of 2000, Bleem emerged victorious again. An appeals court overturned the that Bleem could not use screenshots of Judge O'Scannlain ruled that Bleem which as long as it isn't untruthful or deceptive, is and therefore considered fair use. ... he wrote. The following week, on May 11th, Game compatibility would be distributed via packs. Each pack would be compatible with Games would run at a 640x480 resolution Bleem even hinted at releasing a PS1-to-Dreamcast controller converter. But once again, Sony pounced. The next week, on May 19th, this time for patent infringement. By 2001, sales of Bleem had A wave of development issues as well as constant Consumers wouldn't see the and it was a disappointment. It was renamed Bleemcast and game compatibility was released Only three discs were released: Gran Turismo 2, Metal Gear Solid and Tekken 3. Sony was losing in court, but that didn't stop After the Bleemcast's release, Sony called or halt stock of Sony products if they carried Bleemcast. One store, Babbage's, asked to return It was a huge blow to Bleem. By November of 2001, with sales declining and further After the shutdown, its website featured a Ironically enough, they removed the image One of the most common questions about these The answer is licensing fees, which is one of the biggest money If the Virtual Game Station and Bleem took off, developers could make PlayStation thereby avoiding a licensing fee. While Sony didn't win the legal their strategy of constant litigation won in the end. In the years that followed, by the major video game console manufacturers. Nintendo's Virtual Console allows users to and Sony has offered PlayStation 1 and 2 When Sony came after Connectix and They paid a hefty price for their courage. Today, both products can be found laying but their legacy lives on in the form of legal precedent. And thanks to their battles, emulation has emerged That's all for this episode of Gaming Thanks for watching! Funding for Gaming Historian is Thank you.