Many scenes from Jane Austen novels take place and that's because at that time you could tell a lot about a person simply by how Like could you figure out a person's rough income simply because they would breakfast on this 18th century recipe for bath buns one of Jane Austen's favorites? Perhaps, so thank you to Hellofresh for sponsoring this video as we make breakfast for Jane Austen this time on Tasting History. Breakfast in late 18th century and early 19th century England was a pretty basic meal depending on who was doing the eating of course. In 1807 James Malcolm wrote that a middle class londoners breakfast consisted of &quot;tea, coffee, cocoa, rolls, toast and bread.&quot; Hence my decision to bake bread but when it comes to the exact type of bread I wanted to make well for that I look to my favorite author from the period Jane Austen. In 1801 she wrote wrote a letter to her sister Cassandra saying that she hoped to join her when she stayed in Bath, but admits that perhaps her going would be an inconvenience and an added cost to their host. But as to &quot;the keep of two will be more than of one, I will endeavor to make the difference less by disordering my stomach with Bath buns; and as to the trouble of accommodating us, where there are one or two, it is much the same.&quot; That is to say I won't take up much space and I won't eat much because I'm going to fill up on bread, specifically Bath buns. Now Bath buns sometimes called Bath cakes are not to be confused with the light and fluffy Sally Lunn bun which was one of the first things that I made here on the channel and the first recipe that I made sure to include in the Tasting history cookbook. Now they do have similarities but the Sally Lunn bun is really just a brioche, a wonderfully delicious brioche bread, whereas the Bath bun is usually sweetened quite a bit and has caraway for flavoring, or did have caraway for flavoring. Today they're usually made with sultanas, or raisins or But since I'm making an 18th century recipe I am going to be using caraway. This recipe comes from the experienced English housekeeper by Elizabeth Raffald. &quot;To make Bath Cakes. Rub half a pound of butter into a pound of flour, and one spoonful of good barm, warm some cream, and make it into a light paste, set it to the fire to rise, when you make them up, take four ounces of caraway comfits work part of them in, and strew the rest on the top, make them into a round cake, the size of a French roll, bake them on sheet tins, and send them in hot for breakfast.&quot; So, many later recipes start to reduce the amount of butter and instead add egg to make it more like a fluffy brioche. Though there is one recipe that actually doubles the amount of butter and that's by John Farley in 1783, and what's interesting is that is the only real change that he makes to the recipe because the rest of the recipe is the exact same as Elizabeth Raffald's except that when when Elizabeth Raffald ends saying &quot;and send them in hot for breakfast&quot;, Farley adds &quot;or at tea in the afternoon.&quot; But with the addition of that it's practically an entirely different recipe, right? So you can have these at breakfast, you can have these at afternoon tea, but you can't have them at dinner. No Bath buns for dinner instead you should make a delicious meal from today's sponsor Hellofresh delivers farm fresh ingredients to your door and to cut down on prep time they pre-portion all of the ingredients so you can get right to the cooking. They have over 45 different options to choose from every week including vegetarian, pescatarian, and calorie smart. They even have a line of quick and easy meals for those nights when you're just a little hangry and don't want to spend too much time cooking. Last night I made the chicken sausage spaghetti bolognese, and in only 30 minutes I was seated on the couch enjoying my pasta. But it's not just dinner because Hellofresh now offers breakfasts as well. Like the turkey sausage and cheese egg bites so you can And right now if you visit hellofresh.com or just click the link in the description and use my code TASTINGHISTORYFREE you will get free breakfast for life one free breakfast in every box, as long as you keep the subscription active. That's code TASTINGHISTORYFREE for free breakfast for life, and maybe I can even convince them to add these Bath buns to their selections, but until I can get them to do that you'll have to make them yourself, and for that what you'll need is: 1 1/2 pounds or 226 grams of butter, 1 pound or 450 grams of bread flour, 3 and 1/2 1 teaspoon of salt and 1 cup of cream. Now there is actually one more ingredient in the recipe but you are unlikely to find it here in the 21st century, and that is the caraway comfits. What these are essentially is a seed of caraway that has been coated in layers of sugar in a way that it's like a hard candy coating similar to the outside of an M&amp;M. No chocolate though, it's just the seed and then a lot of sugar around it. There are actually specialty shops that still make this sort of thing but they don't use caraway seeds anymore so hopefully someday I can get my hands on a version of the machine that they use to actually make these and I can make comfits here at my house but for now I'm going to have to go with kind of an alternative just focused on the flavors that I'm trying to get, and for that I'm using 1 tablespoon of caraway seeds So first activate your yeast by adding it to 1/4 cup of warm water and then whisk in the salt to the flour, and then break the butter up into the flour and rub it in Then add the yeast along with the sugar, and the caraway seeds, and mix everything until it's combined. And then pour the cream into a saucepan and heat it up until it's just warm about 110deg F, no more than that, and then add that to the flour mixture and begin Once the dough comes together knead it for another 15 minutes and if after 15 minutes it's still not pulling away from the sides of the bowl, then add in a tablespoon of flour. If you're kneading this by hand this will have been done on a flowered surface so you're going to be adding in more flour as you go but in a stand mixer you're going to probably need to add a tablespoon or so. Knead it until it pulls away from the sides of the bowl or until it has doubled in size. Now because of all of the butter it's going to rise much slower than many other breads so don't try to rush it, it's probably going to take closer to 3 hours. It took 3 hours in my kitchen so just have patience. But once it's doubled in size punch it down and turn it out of the bowl and divide it into 12 equal pieces forming each into a little bun by stretching and Gathering the dough into the center, and then cupping it between your hands and rolling it into a tight ball. Then set those on a couple lined baking sheets and cover them again and let them rise for another hour. Now once they're risen you can either put them into the oven then or you can give them an optional egg wash just to give them a little bit of a shine, and then pop them in the oven at 375deg F or 190deg C for 20 minutes, or until they are golden brown on top and sound hollow when you tap on the bottom. So just a word about these buns, back in Jane Austen's time they would have been considered rather decadent and so you could tell a lot about a person simply by the fact that they are eating Bath buns for breakfast and you could tell a lot about a person based on what time they're having that breakfast. In Jane Austen's most well-known book 'Pride and Prejudice' Elizabeth Bennett gets a note from her sister Jane saying that she is ill at Netherfield, the home of Mr Bingley. Austen tells us that the letter arrives shortly after breakfast and Elizabeth worried about her sister's health, decides to hoof it over to Netherfield, a distance of about 3 miles, and it's not 3 miles on a nice clean paved road but &quot;crossing field after field... jumping over stiles, and springing over puddles.&quot; Such a journey especially wearing the shoes and clothing of the time would not be a very quick one. It would have taken at the very least an hour and yet when Elizabeth arrives at the house she finds Mr. Bingley's other house guests just sitting down to breakfast. Now on the surface this entire affair just seems to be a story about Elizabeth worrying about her sister Jane, and it had to take place at some time in the day so why not breakfast? But in fact Jane Austen is telling us something about the who are all from London and are of a higher status and she does this by letting you know that they are having breakfast 2 hours or so later. Now this is something that is completely lost on us now, we wouldn't even make that connection or at least I didn't and I've read this book many, many times but when the book was published in 1813 the people reading would have made that connection. See it was common knowledge that the well-to-do ladies and gentlemen of London ate breakfast much later than the middle classes, especially those who lived outside the city middle class families like the Bennetts. Now this sort of fact would seem rather mundane and so most people would never write about this, but that's why I love looking at the writings of foreign Travelers when they go to a new place. For example the French Duke Francois de la Rochefoucauld wrote about his time spent in England in the 1780s, and speaking of the every man he wrote &quot;Throughout England it is the custom to breakfast The commonest breakfast is at 9:00 and by that time the ladies are fully dressed with their hair properly done for the day. Breakfast consists of tea and bread and butter in various forms. In the houses of the rich you have coffee, chocolate, and so on. The morning newspapers are on the table and those who want to do so, read them during breakfast, so that the conversation is not of a lively nature.&quot; So it's 9:00 a.m. and the family is around the table eating together but also reading the newspaper, and I always find it interesting that people today will often chastise, especially the youth, for being on their phone at at a meal which is rude but it's obviously nothing new seeing as Rochefoucauld is talking about how the conversation is so dull because everyone at breakfast is reading the Nothing ever changes we are not special. Now that was Rochefoucauld writing about the everyman, the common people especially those outside of London but when talking about the people in London especially the type of people that the Duke would have been hanging about well then &quot;The conduct of an Englishman's day in London leaves little time for work. He gets up at ten or eleven and has breakfast (always with tea).&quot; Ten, or eleven, so that's up to 2 hours later than most and some pushed it even further into the day. James Malcolm wrote that for the class &quot;of ancient families possessing large incomes, and the Nobility... breakfast often makes its appearance at the Tradesman's hour of dining.&quot; And he says that he's heard of &quot;breakfasts at private at three or four o'clock in the afternoon.&quot; Now these breakfasts were not simple little meals of of bread and tea, they would include dishes of cold game like venison along with confections and pastries and plates What made it breakfast was not the time of day specifically but rather that it was simply the first meal of the day, you were breaking your fast. And really the only difference with these big breakfasts and at dinner was the food that was being served, and how it was being served. Usually you weren't at a big dinner table and everything was served a la foruchette, No need to cut anything, everything was kind of finger foods. These were also the types of breakfasts that one would have on the day of their wedding. Afterward everyone would come over for a big wedding breakfast so similar to today's receptions but a breakfast but that is the time when people would cut into the bride cake which was the precursor to the wedding cake. I did a whole video on that but that's the time that you'd cut into the bride cake. Now the reason that these wealthy people weren't having breakfast until later on in the day was because they would laze about in bed until the crack a noon because when you were a wealthy lady or gentleman so after a man's midday breakfast &quot;He then makes at 9 o'clock in the evening he meets his friends in a tavern or a club and there the night is passed in play and drink; that is precisely how the day is spent.&quot; It was not uncommon for the upper class to come home at 2 or 3 a.m. so of course they were going to sleep in, and during the season when they would have balls and parties almost every night it was often daylight before you would call your carriage to take you home. Now just as the wealthier would eat breakfast later in the day, the poorer would eat breakfast earlier in the day. Rochefoucauld actually talks about the &quot;working man&quot; and I don't mean like bankers and and lawyers, I mean people who did manual Labor or domestic servants. He says they would work 12 hour days, 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. summer and winter with 90 minutes given over to eating. &quot;Half an hour for breakfast and an hour for dinner.&quot; So their breakfasts were usually at 8:00 a.m. sometimes I also love how Rochefoucauld who was a bonafide French Duke had the gall to assess the work ethic of the English &quot;The English laborers do their work in a very casual way, taking frequent rests and talking a great deal. I am convinced that a French workman does nearly a fifth more work in a day than an Englishman.&quot; Now Rochefoucauld does not talk about what these people are actually eating for breakfast but James Malcolm who was the one that said the middle class typically dined on toast and bread, well he says that &quot;The Journeyman and laborer sometimes eat bread and cheese, or salted meat and bread, on the spot where they work.&quot; He also said sometimes it was just some bread and butter and small beer from a near local pub, that's basically a low alcoholic beer and rarely did they get to go home for breakfast, especially in London because you only had 30 minutes to eat. So you often ate either at the work site or at a nearby pub but the working man was not the only one who went out Rochefoucauld discusses how many of his upper class would spend the evening gambling on horse races, and &quot;You are generally paid the next day at the cafe where everyone meets for breakfast.&quot; These cafes were generally the coffee houses which were still quite popular in London, and he says that in England people very rarely don't pay their gambling debts, but should on occasion someone decide to welch at breakfast &quot;This is the only occasion in England, on which you may give yourself the pleasure of dealing faithfully with a man with the help of a stick or a whip...&quot; Now ladies were not accustomed to frequenting these cafes to settle their gambling debts but that does not mean that they were sequestered at home because especially in places like London or Bath they In 1799 Jane Austen wrote to her sister Cassandra as &quot;There was a very long list of arrivals here we need not immediately dread absolute solitude; and there is a public breakfast in Sydney Gardens every morning, so that we shall not be wholly starved.&quot; Now while some did go breakfasting out of the house in general for most people the first meal of the day was a cozy family affair that was done in the house. &quot;A breakfast is a comfortable meal when our little family assemble around the breakfast table in good spirits with a strong blazing fire.&quot; Though casual as it was provided you had a bit of money you would have an entire room in your house just Usually these were on the ground floor of a house and had windows opening out onto a southern exposure to let in some of the morning light. And once again a foreigner this time a Spaniard gives us some wonderful little details about this simple room. &quot;Our breakfast table is oval, large enough for eight or nine persons, yet supported upon one claw in the center. This is the it is easy to know how long it is since a house has been fitted up by the shape of the furniture. The breakfast-table is a cheery site in this country: porcelain of their own manufactury, which excels the Chinese in elegance of form and ornament.&quot; He also writes a bit about what the English were eating for breakfast specifying that &quot;The English do not eat beef-steaks for breakfast, as lying Travelers have told us, nor can I find that it has ever been the custom... They eat their bitter bread in various ways, either in thin slices, or toasted, or in small hot loaves always with butter, which is the best thing in the country.&quot; He says their tea would which they drank with cream, not milk, but cream was exquisite especially when compared to their coffee. &quot;The coffee is contained in a smaller shape, or in a larger kind of teapot, wherein the grain is suspended in a bag; but nothing is so detestable as an Englishman's coffee, The washing of our after-dinner cups would make a mixture as good; the infusion is just strong enough to make the water brown and bitter.&quot; Now while he sticks with the bread for breakfast narrative which does seem to be most common for most people there were others who would indulge during breakfast as Jane Austen wrote in 'Mansfield Park' &quot;...Fanny walked back to the breakfast-room with a very saddened heart... and there her uncle kindly left her to cry in peace, conceiving perhaps, ...that the remaining cold pork bones and mustard in William's plate might but divide her feelings with the broken eggshells in Mr Crawford's.&quot; Things like eggs and roast kidney, cold ham, and mutton chops these could all be found on certain breakfast plates especially if you knew that you weren't going to have dinner until quite a bit later because even for the wealthy at this time it was a two meal day. Luncheon and afternoon tea really hadn't taken off and they wouldn't until the Victorian period. Another thing that you might see at breakfast was alcohol. It was not uncommon for men to start the day with a bit of brandy and for a woman to have a glass of white wine. Though most common were tea coffee and chocolate any of which would be wonderful accompaniments to our Bath So after 20 minutes take them out of the oven and as they cool we can once again tackle the conundrum of what to do with our lack of caraway comfits. See at the time they would have just taken the entire comfit, and put it on top of the bun and then baked it that way, but it wouldn't have melted because even though it was sugar the way that it was done it didn't melt. Think again of of like an M&amp;M in a baked good that's but today if you just took some sugar and put it on top of the bun, and then baked it you're going to just have some burnt sugar. Luckily the bakers of Bath today have to mimic the crunchy texture of the comfit. Now they don't add caraway today but since I'm making an 18th century version I am adding caraway. So to get the the crushed up sugar and the the caraway to adhere to the top of the bun since we're not and so you can make that by taking 2 tablespoons of mixing it up and then heating it up until it becomes a liquid then brush that onto the buns. Then add your sugar and caraway and here we are Jane Austen's Bath buns. They just look delightful and the whole house smells wonderful. It smells like warm baked bread but then you also get that kind of caraway scent, it's not overpowering but I am worried that the flavor is going to be overpowering because caraway can be a rather strong flavor. So I open it up here... it's a nice crumb. It's tight. They are more dense than the later versions. If you have a version today it's much more airy, it's because less butter, more egg, but lets give it a taste. I'm dropping the- hm! - the sugar. Doesn't matter. Hm! Especially with a little butter which I don't have on me but you don't really need it, there's a ton of butter in these. It's dense but it's also like really, really soft. The texture is really nice. I do think that one will fill me up pretty good so Jane Austen saying that she was going to fill up on Bath buns makes sense. What I really like is they're sweet, but they're not but the caraway, that flavor can be easily overpowering and it's not. It's there, it's present but it's not overpowering. It's So I wanted to share with you one of the things that kind of inspired me to do this episode and where I get some of the information. This book is called 'What Jane Austen Ate and This is the one of the books that like got me but it's older than many of the books that I have. It is absolutely wonderful. It just kind of reads like you are stepping into 19th that you need to know about the money, their food, from fox hunting to wist, which is a card game, the It's a wonderful, wonderful book. I'll put a link down I'm also going to put a link to another book that is kind of similar but much newer called 'The Time Traveler's Guide to Regency Britain'. It's a whole series, he's done medieval England, and Elizabethan England. They're amazing and again it's like if you were to go back in time just bring this book and you'll be good to go. Anyway these I'm going to just gobble them up, they're absolutely wonderful. I look forward to having a wonderful Jane Austen inspired breakfast tomorrow with a bit of hot chocolate, and some more Bath buns and I'll see you next time on Tasting History. [chomp]