- Every choice that you (cheerful music) Money is an invitation You can afford anything, So if there's something that you value, whether it's travel, food, or a house, you can have that thing. You just can't have an You might not be able to have and something else and something else. And that doesn't just apply to your money. That applies to your time, your focus, your energy, your attention And life is the ultimate limited resource. So when you practice being you practice being better My name is Paula Pant. I am the host of the I want to help you reach by making smarter (contemplative music) The mistake that I see when they start asking questions about how to manage their money is that oftentimes people about a product or a tactic. So for example, they might say, &quot;Should I use this app, or should I invest in cryptocurrency?&quot; First-principles thinking and really getting to So if you think about a tree, the tactics and the products That's the most visible surface so, of course, it's what But first, let's start with The roots of that tree are your values. It's that question of what matters most. And then from those roots which is your philosophy of life, the type of life that you want to lead. And from that philosophy, then your objective or your goals: How does that philosophy of living translate into specific goals? That's really that tree trunk. From there, you go out into and they represent the strategy. Now that you know your you know your goals, now you for how to obtain those goals. And then once you have then those leaves are the So if you're starting with the question about tactic or product, but you don't have that When personal finance is framed in the context of delayed gratification so that you can have more it's really hard to But when we reframe that and how taking better care of your money leads to this flourishing of freedom, of opportunity, of choice, that becomes much more enticing. FI is the point at which your money that comes to you typically through investments - is enough to cover your basic bills. And the reason that matters is because then endless You have the freedom to whether that's to stay in make a midlife career change, or travel the world. Whatever you're able to make that about how you're gonna keep the lights on, how you're gonna keep the fridge stocked. The pursuit of FI is for everyone, but the first steps that you depending on where you There are really only three steps to achieving financial independence: Grow the gap, invest the gap, repeat. Grow the gap means to grow the gap between what you earn and what you spend. And there are only two earn more or spend less or both. If you don't make very much, like me when I was in my making $21,000 a year, at that stage of life, your If you're already making big dollars but you have a spending problem, the low-hanging fruit is to and to address the root that are leading to that spending problem. Step two is to then invest that gap. My personal feeling is to save and invest at And when I say save and invest, that includes making additional payments towards the debt above and retirement savings, investments It includes building Start with the goal of saving 20%, and if you're nowhere close to that, increase your savings rate by 1% and do that every month or two. It will take a few years, but you will over time And then step three is repeat. This is a lifetime practice. This is not a quick hit or something that's going Money management happens for life. (contemplative music) There has never been a point in history when the world has not been volatile. A hundred years ago, there and there was a first World War. A decade later, the Great Depression. After that was World War II. After that, event after event after event that affected the entire globe. I came to FI because I was scared and anxious about the volatility My response to that was to become obsessed with saving as much as I could because it allowed me to not It felt psychologically Change is the nature of the And so, if you're looking that are happening in the world today and you're feeling fear, embrace it and use that as fuel to make wise decisions about how you spend your That's how you build a life And there's a lot of joy in that. (cheerful music) - [Narrator] Get smarter from the world's biggest thinkers. (cheerful music) To learn even more from the get Big Think Plus for your business. (cheerful music)