(calm music) - [Kuhn] When I was 12, lying in bed, I had this sudden realization that I desperately tried - The ultimate Why is there something How do we begin to even think about that? - [Kipping] You awake in of the wind gently blowing In a daze, you momentarily to move your curtains around, to produce almost whispering To the ancient Greeks, As with many gaps in their knowledge, they attributed it to four gods known as the Anemoi, from benevolent to cruel. As your senses gather, such superstitious notions. You remember that wind is caused by pressure differences Resting your head back you might then wonder what causes those pressure differences to exist. Surely everything has a cause. You consider how differences from the sun will induce and how those differences could arise due to surface topology, cloud cover, and seasonal variations, but and now you press on, to heat the earth in the first Your mind races through an ever deeper series of causes and effects. Nuclear fusion, stellar formation, galaxy formation, until and eventually perhaps in a moment of panic and you ask yourself, why is there a universe? In fact, why is there anything? Welcome, dear friend, to the very boundary of what is knowable sometimes called the fundamental It is this question that [Trinity] It's the question that drives us. It's the question that brought you here. You know the question, just as I do. [Kipping] Sagan once wrote that science Before science, the world around us was often confusing, one in which events occurred but over centuries of that everything we see around To many of us, this is The universe has rules, Every physical effect has even if that course might a principle of universal causation, but this clarity of scientific reasoning might appear shaky, almost threatened, when we pose one of the simplest questions about the Big Bang, the kind of question that even a child might ask. What caused it? The current answer to that We have ideas and speculations, but we have no real It is a gap in our that doesn't mean that an It just means that whatever it currently evades our grasp, and there's nothing It's perfectly fine in science for there to be unanswered questions, cosmic mysteries that often inspire the next generation of scientists. In fact, I often see this as one of the major strengths of science. It doesn't claim to know everything. It's not dogmatic in that sense. So perhaps there is an whether it be an eternal cyclic universe, a multiverse of colliding brains, simulation theory, or However, by providing a causal explanation for the Big Bang through any we now, of course, have to Why should there be a multiverse? Why should there be an eternal Now, if you're still I invite you to join me in taking a step further into the abyss that this line of questioning ultimately leads. To begin, let's suppose for the universe, the however you wanna call it, an explanation for that does exist. Now, building upon this supposition, let's imagine that one day we reveal it. We discover this proof, buried that beautifully explains the whole story. The universe had to exist, that preceded it, but because this law of physics demands it. The universe had no option but It's a giant eureka moment. The champagne bottles are shuffled out of a dusty back room and and celebrating their own in the background asks, &quot;But why is that law of physics true?&quot; Whilst we might be tempted such a challenge, it is After all, physicists have spent centuries discovering causal explanations to many of our familiar laws of many of those so-called laws of physics ended up being merely derivative rules that could be understood from deeper rules that lay beneath them. As an example, Coulomb to be a distinct separate force of nature, but then Maxwell came along and the electric force of the same coin, electromagnetism. Later still it was proved and the nuclear weak just different aspects of the electroweak force. And so there is hope, that eventually all of the and understood by a single theory, perhaps even a single the entire domain of physics, So perhaps one day we will discover this theory of everything, and maybe it will become clear That's why it's here. It's because of this ultimate theory, which could perhaps be an something like A equals B times X, three letters that would all hang up in student dorm and marvel at as the So perhaps now finally that back outta the back room are unsealed, and the that now they have explained everything. They have explained existence itself. But again, there is a in the back that says, &quot;Hey, Why not A equals B plus or indeed anything else?&quot; The fundamental problem is however small we attempt still represents a finite In a digital sense, there of bits of data that appear to have been somehow transcribed into nature herself, but who or what authored that information? Of course, an obvious temptation just like the ancient Greeks did, a God of the gap, but not a gap even in our ability Of course, the problem is that one can now rightfully ask, &quot;Well, where did that God come from?&quot; And in posing that question, that we've hardly answered and in fact, we've arguably [Sagan] But if we wish to pursue we must, of course, ask the next question: Where did God come from? If we decide that this is why not save a step and conclude that the origin of the universe Or if we say that God always and conclude that the There's no need for a creation. It was always here. These are not easy questions. Cosmology brings us face to with questions that were once treated only in religion and myth. [Kipping] There's two separate that we're dancing around here. The first of these is how do we cope with the fact that any must presumably have a starting point and one that lacks explanation. As a second ontological just a lot simpler, and than something, and by nothing here, I don't just mean empty space. I mean an absolute absence of space. No universe, no laws of A totally incomprehensible These are questions that and philosophers have been Robert Kuhn has a particularly great series of interviews that are on YouTube about these questions in that I definitely recommend you check out. Rather than attempting to number of arguments made on this topic, I'm instead to explain in my own why are we so stuck on this problem and why is it that it haunts me so deeply? So let's tackle point two first. Why is there anything rather than nothing? The first idea we might is somehow unstable and always necessarily spawned something. That argument, though, is really motivated by the analogy of how due to quantum fluctuations, but there you have two Space and quantum mechanics, because that is not nothing. As hard as it is to absolute nothingness, which of any kind that we can employ and a similar issue exists with arguments about symmetry or invariance as well. So an instability argument, Okay, so how else can we answer why is there something Subtly, the very phrasing of that question presupposes that nothing is an apriori, more favorable state This thinking is somewhat via Occam's razor, which &quot;All things being equal, tends to be the right one,&quot; but originally was actually closer to, be positive without necessity.&quot; Occam's razor is a heuristic, when weighing different hypotheses in a statistical framework, but physics has no formal requirement to As Feynman once highlighted, to be simple or elegant.&quot; [Feynman] People say to me, are you looking for the ultimate laws of physics? No, I'm not. I'm just looking to find and if it turns out there that explains everything, so be it. That would be very nice to discover. If it turns out it's like an and we're just sick and tired then that's the way it is. But whatever way it comes and she's going to come [Kipping] Inspired by Feynman then, why is there something perhaps instead we should be asking why should one ever Flipping Occam over on his head. Yet even here, I cannot find any solace, for whether existence be as or as complicated as Feynman's onion, one still begrudgingly has to admit that nature still contains a finite set of immutable governing laws, been inscribed into nature herself, but from when does that This brings us to the question Why is there something Why is there anything at all? Perhaps, as many have is itself nonsensical. It can't be legitimately asked, I can offer you, you will &quot;Well, what caused that, then?&quot; Infinite regress. Perhaps we might try invoking a kind of self-causation cycle, like a paradox, where the beginning of loops around to the end, but would still be stuck of inherent complexity, making us wonder why does the loop exist at all rather than no loop, no anything? Faced with this crisis, one might argue that the question cannot ever be answered, even in principle, for our something here really represents everything, and so by construction, there cannot ever be something outside of as a causal explanation. It's a little bit like of the North Pole? The question doesn't make any sense. Pulling further on this one might argue then that in with a causal explanation, then there must necessarily be some things so-called non-contingent Now, that something could be a multiverse, it could be a god, something that in turn spawns our universe, but as Sagan said, why add that extra such superfluousness and simply posit that the universe exists Sometimes dubbed a brute fact, this is perhaps the most to the question of this video, because it really refuses to It's as if the universe herself tells us to stop working on the problem. [Riker] I think this is one suppress your natural tendencies. One of your strengths is your ability to evaluate the dynamics of a situation. Now, you're frustrated can't see the solution, you What we're facing is at least not yet. [Picard] You're saying I should just [Riker] Well, I wouldn't have [Kipping] The idea of admitting brute facts into scientific discourse to our logical palettes. Sagan's candle in the dark implies that there are no unanswerable questions. Every mystery, every is amenable to science, even if we don't know the answer yet. In many ways, the demons were slain by science, but is unceremoniously aborted. We are halted in our tracks, who draws a line in the sand and says, &quot;Here, is where you must stop No further,&quot; and I just don't One reason I'm so uneasy with brute facts is the danger they represent If we admit brute facts as a viable scientific resolution, then Every time we encounter a new to simply play the brute fact card again. No point investigating this. It's just another brute fact. And so I am stuck and I lie awake at night wrestling with this still. I just don't know that of a brute fact. I don't. The whole mantra of this has been stay curious, and to extinguish that this bitter, brutal pill? And yet, as disturbing it may be unavoidable. - Tony, there was no other way. (calm music) - The fact that we are mirrors discussions in the wider field and it has become a common This brute fact position is to Bertrand Russell who &quot;I should say that the and that's all.&quot; A possible glimmer of hope that there are some concepts have no cause, in particular numbers, and by extension, mathematics. Whether a universe exists or not, the abstract concept of Perhaps this might Max Tegmark has latched onto this idea in his mathematical universe hypothesis, proposing that the universe by mathematics but it is itself Here we have vast landscape and we find ourselves by anthropic reasoning. At the end of the day, why rather than nothing, I am because this universe is with all this beautiful mess around us. I'm not sure that I'm ready to submit to Tegmark's idea that to the universe, nor the that theory precipitates. However, his work does give me some hope that we might be able to avoid that we might be able to not only stay thoughtful but stay curious. (calm music)