(water splashing) - I texted this clip to my wife who wanted proof I wasn't on a recent trip to The Bahamas. Now, if you're wondering what my feet are doing with a bucket of blood 20 well that comes down to a at the Discovery Channel six months ago. They told me Shark Week is coming up and they wanna know what I would do if they could put me in on a boat surrounded by sharks. For as long as I can remember, I've always wanted to test if sharks can really smell from a mile away. Now, before you say they, kind of, did this. As you can see, to test this they poked their fingers and then stuck them in a barrel with these tiny lemon sharks. And since they didn't and look at their fingers, Now, I'm friends with but I think even they would've the methodology was less So I came up with a more built some NASA grade hopped on a plane, and then a speedboat, and soon enough I was 20 What's up? Dude, there's sharks. - There's sharks. We have sharks. - That's the first time like, in the wild. Let's do some science. To kick things off, I sat down with my marine biologist, shark diving expert, friend, Luke Tipple, and explained my plan to him. Eventually, I plan to test just how far they could smell a single But first I wanted proof that over any other scent. So for my first experiment, I plan to put four surfboards in the water equal distant from the back of the boat. Each board would host two that we would pump into the ocean over the course of an hour. Then using a three meter radius around each board as a gauge, we would use drone footage and count how many sharks went So this board would be fish oil, which I heard was a general Then we would have cows blood here. Then seawater here as a control to make sure the sharks in the surfboard. And then finally urine. I've heard from surfers that a lot of them won't 'cause they feel like it's - I don't know a surfer alive who doesn't pee in their wetsuit. (all chuckling) But yes, that's definitely - Gonna liberate surfers everywhere when we show that it's cool And so after a bit more discussion, Luke was on board for the Well, as a firm believer we'll test it out. - And then you dive? - Well, depending on the results I dive. (all chuckling) I can't pee, the deals off. And so with that, we started putting the (upbeat music) We also started collecting from the crew. (whistling) - All right, so, now it's What do you wanna do first? Pee or blood. - Yeah, I do. Let's do pee. - Okay. - Let's do rock paper scissors for who holds the bucket (chuckling) - Okay. Wait, wait. I gotta strategize. Okay, I know what, I [In unison] One, two, three, shoots. Yeah! Oh, that smells so bad. It's urine. Whose ever it is they need to hydrate. Dude, this is gonna be a nightmare. - Oh. Oh, it's warm. Oh dude, it's all over my hands. You're pouring sucks. Oh! - Okay. - Ugh, that stinks. - No, we're good, we're good. All in the name of science. - It's a great time of 'cause we have a lot of sharks. Looking down here we got three and I can actually see two And that's actually a massive - That is huge. All right, see if you can than I did. Oh my gosh. Oh wow. There's a feeding frenzy. Ah! What do you mean don't move it? I almost lost my hands. - You did not. It's not gonna jump out of the water. - Okay, so you've got seawater - Have urine and cow's blood. - Let's do it. (lively music) So, while Luke is bravely and anchoring them in place in preparation for the one hour countdown, now is a perfect time to explain the cool tech on each board I designed and built from scratch For this experiment to be robust, all four boards need to start after Luke has them in place. That means we need to using a radio signal from the boat. So, each surfboard has a that also hosts the battery, a custom printed circuit Then I have the remote control and as soon as I hit this button... (mechanical whirring) They all start pumping at the same time. We know each pump is working because the corresponding That's important because they're to see if they're functioning properly. To pump the blood and pee, we're using a peristaltic pump. This is a perfect choice because it's a totally sterile way to get the blood from the bag to the ocean since the blood never touches any sort of valve or something. It just has these rollers that sort of pinch and push in a manner that just to a severed artery. And so with the boards Operation shark bait test thing commence! Three, two, one, beep. All four are going. We have confirmation. Everything is rolling, the We'll let them go for an hour just dripping stuff out, and yeah, we'll see what happens. - Okay Mark, I can confirm that all four boards are working great. I can see a blood trail on the blood board. I'm going head back to the boat just so I'm not a variable (water gurgling) - And after 10 minutes, there wasn't a lot of So, so far it's pretty interesting. I mean, we've shown if and you're bleeding out and there's this many sharks within, like, 50 yards of you that they're, kind of, like meh. So, like, already, that's an You'd think a little bit of blood and there'd just be a massive swarm, but that's not the case so far. And to be clear, we weren't dealing with The human body contains And after you lose two liters, which is the exact amount then you die. About 20 minutes in, things especially at the fish oil, But then the blood some smaller fish and soon after one or two Not a lot of love for my pee. I don't know why I find but I'm just a little hurt. Eventually, with about 15 minutes left, things started getting pretty The blood was spread out and made almost like a blood runway. So you have this surreal line of sharks swimming up this enticing only to be super disappointed to find a big piece of styrofoam. (quirky music) We're almost done. Three, two, one. The motors have stopped. Our experiment is done. I'd just like to point out So, the engineering part of this experiment works flawlessly. - Dude, there's sharks everywhere. - Are you serious? - Yeah. - There are two super pissed off tigers. - And so now it's time to go in and review the footage and get And what we found was that four sharks went then zero sharks went to and the urine. And then the blood from a whopping 41 sharks. And so now that we debunk and proved that sharks certainly for blood over anything we tested, the real question was just how much blood is interesting to them. And there was one part of that was really nagging at me. 'Cause that was cow's blood, right? - That was cow's blood. You wanna do human blood? - I wanna try human blood. - We've got at least 10 living breathing (chuckling) - It's worth noting, not everyone was as stoked as Yeah, and then just draw it. We'll just have fresh blood, just mainline it and put it in the water. - Why not? Would you be down? - I'd be down. - Moondog, what do you reckon? - Don't look at me man. (chuckling) - You can have all the pee you want. You can't have my blood. (chuckling) - So Luke made some calls amazing, certified Bahamian - I'm like, oh, I'm totally (chuckling) (quirky music) And after some generosity and even Captain Scotty, we had four bulging bags of human blood for our second experiment. This is my actual blood. We're gonna see if sharks And if they do, I probably won't go free diving with them. For the second experiment, Again, we placed the The board over here would at one drop a minute, and then on the other side, this board would pump the blood fast, on average one drop every four seconds. We were able to do that because another cool feature was that by turning this knob so over time they can pump And because sometimes and just do our part risked his life by I prepared to push a button. Three, two, one, commence! All right. All of them are Now the clock's just ticking. We have like 55 more minutes to go. We'll see if the sharks notice it. One drop of human blood every four seconds may sound like a lot and it certainly is, but it's also important to note, that's 40 times less where we saw so much activity. In this case, halfway into even though there were tons the boards themselves were pretty quiet. We'll have to see when we look But so far, it looks like the answer's no. Five, four, three, two, And so after the full hour, we brought in the boards and once again reviewed the footage to see that over the course of an hour, zero sharks checked out the control board, zero checked out the and exactly zero sharks So this was by no means But I think it's safe that if no sharks came of human blood a minute in the middle of shark infested waters, you're probably gonna be I mean, there certainly won't with a single drop of blood Now that I had some firsthand I was willing to try diving but I had one final experiment. I had a theory that if to the front of a hand spear and then shot it near some sharks we could create the world's like underwater bullet time effect. So I suited up and got in. (upbeat music) - [Mark] This is terrifying. And my theory proved correct Because as you can see, that (upbeat music) (upbeat music continues) Oh, he's got it! (upbeat music) (upbeat music continues) Oh gosh! Oh my gosh. Holy crap! Oh gosh, I'm gonna die. Save me Luke. They can sense I'm a newb. I know it. They know I'm a newb. - [Luke] On that note, (chuckling) - [Mark] Let's end on that. That was amazing, man. You got 'em in like a There's like six of 'em I mean, this is shaping - What I'll take home from this shoot is just more evidence of the but also the ability to point people in a specific direction to say, &quot;Hey, your thoughts about - This experience definitely changed my perception on sharks. I would say I respect them more after seeing their raw power up close, but at the same time, there's less of that fear On top of all that, I didn't die. (energetic music) (energetic music continues)