Hey, Dr Bernard here. This video has absolutely or heard of in the news. The purpose of this video is to teach A Wife Poured Drain Cleaner In Her Husband's PB is a 41 year old man, presenting to the vomiting of blood. He tells the admitting nurse that he looked into the bowl before flushing, and goo that looked like asphalt in the toilet. couple of days, there had been significant PB had a strained relationship with his wife have kids, but things just weren't happening. This PB and his wife met earlier in their lives. He was everything was good, until one day, Stunned and in disbelief, he tried as hard but no one would give him a chance. He tried using his credentials to get companies logistics, agriculture, and medicine, but no one would give him the he tried doing a woodworking business, he tried ended with him needing a loan that he couldn't PB: "Babe, I just need like $5000 to pay off more of these and pay you back and then Eventually, he figured out that so long as he could live free with no repercussions, because PB: "By the way I was going to ask you for $5000 After all this time, they kept and their marriage kept getting strained. no wonder he fails at making As the years passed, Katie became more One day while she was on a call for work, PB: "Welcome back to Frankie Katie: I am so sorry about the noise world famous podcaster. You see, zero, Mad at the passive aggressive dig, PB no kids yet was her fault. He didnt have proof taking pills behind his back in an effort to preserve and progress in her 'business trips,'" he thought as he left Upset at this horrible depiction, Katie had been carrying failures of this one person, that she allows him to live the life he does. and enjoys itself at the expense of the must be removed to keep one healthy, as she PB had had stomach problems all throughout where sores would appear at various massive pain. Sometimes the hurt would his food carefully, but he also enjoyed One morning, Katie was making breakfast He liked to drink black coffee, no cream or worse but it just seemed to be random at times. and as PB's coffee was ready, she PB: Did we get new coffee? Why is it so bitter? Katie: Oh your black coffee How about you just make your own breakfast As the day continued, PB felt something was and it felt like there were hairs at the back of and he really wasn't sure what was going on. The uncomfortable throughout the whole morning, as his Eventually, PB went to the hospital because his more medicines for his ulcers. Because of his past was happening. He told them about the spicy and they encouraged him to change and avoid those. He Katie didn't pour the drain cleaner in PB's coffee and the amount that she'd put in increased. PB: "You gotta be kidding me right? Is One day, PB really wasn't feeling well. He He had no idea what Katie was really doing to his As he finally takes one more drink, PB felt a And he's brought to the With a hoarse voice, PB tells the medical team burn was happening in his mouth and throat. the cup really didn't feel that hot. He and he wasn't sure if the coffee was stale or He tells them about the constant indigestion and about his ulcers, but the the more he started to question himself if At examination, PB appeared to be ok at he wasn't breathing quickly. His blood pressure but he was in distress. He had vomited and when you do vomit, you don't want blood, stomach contents. His stools were black and his stomach contents and passed all the way the black color and tarry consistency being the this meaning that PB has had some kind of GI bleed Drain cleaner is a mix of sodium sodium chloride, which is table salt, or caustic soda. If the word caustic refers to we can take a guess as to where the burns in PB's from. But PB and the medical team don't know that The caustic chemicals in drain cleaner they're bases. In some household that the cleaner will cause damage on contact Human cells are defined by a lipid bilayer. is really long chains of carbon, and bi meaning two. A double layer membrane The chemical reaction happening here is called contains high concentration of sodium hydroxide, then it means when he drank the it wasn't bitter because it was black coffee, but and his esophagus. As it flowed down into his way down, destroying the tissue, making soap out Katie didnt put a lot of drain cleaner, PB may have gotten what he did in clumps, coffee would roll down and start lysing the cells, And the longer the drain cleaner was in the deeper the wound, because more time would it wasn't huge amounts of drain cleaner in his could cause damage in the form of ulcers in the GI life. When ulcers become deep, they too can cause happening to PB. Without knowing about the drain between the ulcers he had had his whole life, As the medical team look at the they find that his esophagus was Parts of it had sloughed off, consistent with caustic injury that can happen look like this if PB's only problem were ulcers. Doctors find that PB's lower esophagus has a stricture. When tissue necroses, it sloughs off drain cleaner, a healing process starts to take start to form, and a protein called collagen forming scar tissue. It's similar to what except, caustic ingestion injury happens to a part features like the skin. The deeper the caustic causing a greater narrowing of the esophagus. All PB now, has happened to him in the past. That his ulcers flaring, rather he was correct in because there may have been actual caustic Overall, he appears to be ok in the his blood pressure starts to drop while all of this happening while he's experiencing a a fever and blood tests find that his liver Doctors order scans and find that in his abdomen, outside of his gut. Those aren't supposed Well if it's a gas, it could be air. When inhaled and exchange the oxygen and carbon flood in to the abdomen in the form of free he's breathing. But the GI tract does produce and stomach acid and food are also fluids. means that something in his GI tract must have As the gut bacteria starts oozing out in PB's you get a cut on your skin, the area becomes immune system detecting the cut, and dilating in to the injured area. But for PB, he reacting to the huge bacterial load flowing out causing his blood pressure to drop. This makes as they start shutting down. The kidneys problems processing the body's waste, and then and ox referring to oxygen, as We know that PB has an extensive know he has current injuries from can cause GI tract perforation, so how can Doctors send PB in for surgery. When they perforation happened, suggesting that the was the cause of his stomach contents leaking out organs to shut down. Surgeons close up As he's sent in to the recovery room, PB seems to he's able to eat food again, with some help. Throughout his entire despite his medical care being covered through as that arrangement was, PB was able to make Thanks so much for watching. Take