Ananya Birla: Let's say, but it's also my mom's birthday tomorrow. Sadhguru: You can take her to the Ananya Birla: Many people have been asked to leave Sadhguru: I'm glad about that... please keep it that way. Ananya Birla: How do we overcome Sadhguru: Your experience of life is or you are compulsively reacting to life. You then everybody feels like family to you. necessary today, you can do it joyfully. Sadhguru: Namaskaram. Namaskaram, all of you. Sadhguru: I thought they're not on Ananya Birla: No, I think we all love you, can I start with my first question? I think I'm surely quite ambitious. And in the midst of So, what would your advice and guidance be, how while also maintaining a healthy personal life Sadhguru: Well, what we call as ambition is human longing. When I say fundamental what you are, you want to be something more Yes, or no? If you know money, you're you're thinking more wealth. If you know power, you're thinking more knowledge. If you know Doesn't matter what - currency may be different longing to be something more. So, whatever for right now, suppose we fulfill for you to... for life? Hello? No. You want something more. No. That also we will fulfill the next one. longing to expand in a limitless way. If you through physical means is a foolish thing to existence is, a defined boundary. We call this If I take away all the boundaries of this, it is for something which is boundless through boundaries. It can't be any other way. I'm saying it's to become everything, but your ambition is for You know, constipation means what? It happens, So, ambition is a constipated expression of So, your longing to expand, if you pay attention it's looking for all. Hello? When you're looking because you cannot have all in terms of physical yours, nobody to stop you. Do you know this? your permission. Is that okay? Whether you I've anyway made you mine. Can you stop if somebody has to be yours, you have something else must happen. You need This planet can be yours, isn't it? Hello? This will you allow your consciousness to expand or that is ambition. In that, how to See, what you want to do if it's not People are always asking, how to get work-life your work - if it's not your life, please don't in your life, you spend more time with the people Yes, or no? Day in and day out, you're with them. Depends what kind of work you're doing, you in this world, most of the time you are And if that's not your life, I'm sure it's United States some 23-24 years ago, they whatever. &quot;What is it?&quot; I asked. &quot;Thank God it's where does this come from? Then all the the Americans hate the work that they're doing. hating what you do for five days of the No, it only overdoses. That's all that's happening. I'm saying, life is such a limited amount to do something that you hate? Why the when life is such a brief happening? When before you were born, Ananya, how long were Sadhguru: You don't know. Endless amount of time, Ananya Birla: Thank you. Sadhguru: Because when it comes to We're only negotiating time. Hello? Yes, or die or not, we're negotiating whether it's So, I'll give you another 100 how long will you be dead? Sadhguru: Don't go into all that. How long how long are they dead? They're just for dead Sadhguru: Yes. So, you are dead for a very long It's just a brief amount of time that you're here. that you hate? You must be doing something with the greatest amount of love and affection. or whatever nonsense you want to Ananya Birla: So guruji, coming to this, I most of what I do, and I feel very grateful to wonder what's right. So, if I can give you an so I'm just going to use her as an example. Let's that I'm chairing tomorrow and it also happens that I make for the company obviously affect so but it's also my mom's birthday tomorrow and I want Sadhguru: You can take her to the Ananya Birla: I would love to do. I'm going trying to get at is, when things like that come up, Or is there nothing right and wrong and it This is something that I really struggle personal and professional. Sadhguru: See, when we say personal life - whether it is not the volume of time that we spend with So, I've raised my daughter with my little I've been a fantastic parent to her, all right? I know, I only let my little finger involve myself my work. But with little finger you can do a lot. how much Ananya Birla: Wow, yeah, that's really __. I think it's becoming quite common place and Sadhguru: Hey, what do you mean Gen Z, Ananya Birla: Sorry guruji, it's just a word part of the Gen Z, and she's... Sadhguru: No, I know... I know what that A of life, we mean beginning of life. When When you say I'm Ananya Birla: That's actually... if you think about Hopefully, they're not the last generation. more than just one thing. And given that, I'm trying is this something that you think is sustainable and giving our all to just one field? Sadhguru: See, whether I can ride two question of my competence, isn't it? If what's the problem? But if you're going to That's something you must make a decision. It's you invest your life and time and energy into Because when we do activity, whatever the nature of Suppose you make music, do you want to Ananya Birla: I would Sadhguru: No, no, don't get all so complicated. If you make music, do you want to make music Ananya Birla: No, no, no. Sadhguru: You want people to listen to it. When with tears in their eyes, that's a day your book that nobody wants to read? Do you Do you want to cook something nobody wants to human activity is relevant only in terms of impactful doing ten things, great. If you Ananya Birla: Thank you, guruji. That... that I hope this was relevant for some of you... Sadhguru: There are Ananya Birla: So, you know, given there's Sadhguru: Who is that guy? You're talking to me? Ananya Birla: _____. Given all your biking and for all our fitness levels. Given the corporate asked to leave their workplace. And Sadhguru: Leave means fired? Ananya Birla: Yes. Due... laid off, yes. due to the fact that costs need to be Sadhguru: Changing... changing situations. Ananya Birla: Absolutely. Now in a situation like it... it really hurts to see that, you Sadhguru: Please, fire some more people, I'm No payment, but lot of work. We're a looking for people who are willing to Ananya Birla: No, I think everyone seems very But how do we... it's... it's a battle between the for me personally, it's a moral issue. good for all versus good for majority? Sadhguru: See, there are many changing situations we got into a different tangent on that. You so many things.&quot; I'm telling you, you're facing Because never before humanity had this level of Never before in the history of humanity were convenience. So, you should never complain That means if you use that, only 26 alphabets are Because numbers are limitless, if you go never before these kind of comforts and Never before food and survival has been this many people in the world... you know, there in the world, unfortunately it's there. That is lack of food. In 20... in 2012 I think... in we were producing food... enough But we were only seven something at that still 30 percent of the population is hungry, because of resource, this is because We... we have not felt for other human beings. I'm glad about that, that it hurts you to know that It's very good. Your humanity is alive, you know, there is somebody who wrote You don't know? So, it's not fun to throw relieve somebody, we'll have to do it because But you should not enjoy those things. Suppose I have to put you into some little bit that unfortunately I have to do this. &quot;I Sometimes we are forced to do certain things, like this, it's never been and never will somebody is at disadvantage, at least even though you can't fix it. Many times you a little bit. If that stops, you've forsaken your you fire 100 people today, and you go It's good for you, because deepening your sense in many, many ways. But there are ways to may not go well with your kind of business, when pandemic came, all our activity came to you know, people gathering. So, we couldn't So, largely we are a volunteer-run organization, and there are other things which are hired and that which are... where certain talent So, the only way was to relieve them because the The first thing I did was, I curtailed the I said, &quot;Let's eat far more simple than what...&quot; Because at that time nobody knew how long it'll for three years, five years, like this. So, if it for food? Because I have over 5000 people living you know? This is our nuclear family - It doesn't matter what happens to the foundation. And next thing is, we told everybody, &quot;Please, of the staff. We don't want to do that. in your salary. We will make it up when things So, we never fired anybody, we never relieved even their salaries were cut by 30 percent. I'm rather than simply blatantly doing things. That you look for a solution. Not always the same Ananya Birla: It's a great insight for all of us you know _____ Sadhguruji, you spoke about suffering, you It could be pain, it could be grief, of course, do we feel, and then at what... Sadhguru: Why do you say it's... it's... Sadhguru: ...why do you say it's very Ananya Birla: This is the little learning that but I may be totally wrong. Sadhguru: I thought you heard in Ananya Birla: I know, I heard that... I heard about that as well. But how much of our should we be distracted? You... you know, There are, you know, things like social media balance there? How does one go about doing you know, feel... so, that's something Sadhguru: You're not talking about physical pain? Ananya Birla: No, I'm talking about emotional pain. my right knee is in a little bit of physical okay? So, that keeps me joyful. Now, I want where did you experience it? Ananya Birla: My heart area, I think. Sadhguru: Ananya Birla: Oh, inside. Sadhguru: Inside. Ananya Birla: Inside. Sadhguru: Inside. Agony Inside. Light or darkness, where are you Sadhguru: Inside only. So, every human What happens within you must happen your these people may not happen your way, What happens within you must happen your way. Anybody? Your world is happening 100 not your wife, not your children. So, giving but he does his own thing. Even they do happens 100 percent your way when it comes your way, you have the controlling stake, You try 100 percent, nobody will be If somebody around you tries to make it You're gone, it doesn't matter who they and no situation ever happens 100 percent your little bit somebody else's way, it's good. where do I go? I'm glad it's not happening little bit my way, little bit somebody must happen my way, isn't it? Hello? So, yourself blissful or miserable? Or would this, that, nonsense? Ananya Birla: No, I would... I would Sadhguru: Hey, choose, choose... Sadhguru: ...choose, choose, choose. I'm going to bless you. Sadhguru: So, if you had a choice, that's lose this choice? You lost this choice what is you and what is around you. You've here you do what you want. Here, you keep this sometimes doesn't happen our way, go right against us, all kinds of things. The more things won't happen your way. So, if happening your way, you must just live in listen to you. Mosquitoes won't listen I'm saying the moment you think world should you will just limit... limit the scope of your this will never happen your way 100 percent, but whatever extent you can, but this one must it's blissfulness. Make this blissful. Just some things don't work, everything is your experience of life is determined by somebody now you're terrified of everything. Now in into very constipated life, because the fear of if you're blissful by your own nature, you have fear of suffering, you will walk full stride. Don't do that to yourself. Ananya Birla: Sadhguru: You don't have to overcome fear See, I can take a pin and put it... I won't, and put it in your body right now. I can poke still there, isn't it? Sadhguru: Somebody whom you love very much, Hello? Hello? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: Your but like that, didn't you laugh? How nicely didn't you laugh? Because it's not about what Your life or your experience of life is or you're compulsively reacting to life. This and unconscious. If you're a conscious If you're a compulsive reaction, Ananya Birla: Thank you, guruji. Sadhguru: I didn't point at anybody, Ananya Birla: I think many of us, you of achieving something, of creating impact more And then there are... there are individuals to align everyone to that larger vision? Sadhguru: I must tell you, this happened somewhere Almost 12-15 years ago, I'm doing a multinational companies. One of the top And I have nine volunteers with me. Our nine... Nobody needs to tell them what to do, what not to on the second day they asked, Because they're looking for attrition. Then I &quot;How do we make them?&quot; I said, &quot;You &quot;How do we do that?&quot; I said, &quot;Oh, they don't pay us for that.&quot; if you're looking at life as a transaction, you A marketplace is always dependent on profit and of experiences, all right? But if you've made is not about how much you have, what Just before this Save Soil movement, I was At that time, around me there is one young I said, &quot;Hey, what are you up to?&quot; &quot;Sadhguru, I want to make one billion dollars.&quot; I said, I'll give you a billion dollars.&quot; &quot;Really?&quot; I billion dollars.&quot; He had eight I said, &quot;See, these eight guys, I'm going to give &quot;Sadhguru, Sadhguru, why they're getting ten, Now, one billion dollar is valuable only if I... it's not enough. So, essentially, you enjoy this is sickness. Hello? You enjoy what Participants: Sickness. Sadhguru: It's you will do the best that you can do in your life. There is no such thing as the best. The best that you live allows that, that's a great benediction. are a consequence of the times in which Sadhguru: If you were here 500 years ago, would definitely not. So, it is the times in which we let's do our best. That is, whatever If you're doing something significant, where has it or not? If you see what you're doing is who's got what, who's doesn't have what. doesn't make a difference because what you're what is significant enough, every other You know, we are a volunteer organization. I take permission? Volunteer organization Everybody is enthusiastic, everybody wants to do And you can never fire them for inefficiency all right? So, this is a different kind of management. Isha Foundation, like that. But all our Before Corona... now it's come down a little other areas, otherwise, on an average over 260 Not a single event has been abandoned ever in the all right? So, our events generally happen... but to congratulate all these untrained our events happen in clockwork. I have been to the biggest events, economic forums, this, that. that it happens in Isha Foundation, I'm saying to all of them, because that's a level of They may not be qualified, but they're devoted to So, the important thing is that people that they're doing something significant in their but even if you don't pay one month salary, really important. Right now, they're just doing a All right? So, that inspiration has not I'm not saying everywhere, there are people happen, because what is the point living I can't live with them. You don't want to do you must be agile, you must be there, all if it's not important, why the hell are you doing That's a bad way to live, because this is a very long time, we are only alive for a little to do, what really matters. Hello? And when should I do dance, should I do this, should I do look at yourself as a human being, what can you really touch another life? That's what people with business, you can touch people with with spirituality, with art, music, in every consciousness? Are you doing this to make you genuinely want to touch another life? So, a handful of people your family and the rest are And you're only able to touch one or two lives You must be able to touch a lot of people. impact lots of people, then everybody feels feeling like family with you... or family means not you know, looking up to you because they know significant for them, they'll do their best, And if everybody is agile and doing their best, Ananya Birla: Guruji, you had mentioned that mentoring and support and not dominance, keep our ego in check? Sadhguru: Where is Where is it? Ananya Birla: Somewhere within my system, I guess. Sadhguru: Where? Ananya Birla: No, I think my upper body Sadhguru: Your dentures? Ananya Birla: Ananya Birla: Real teeth? Sadhguru: Yeah, is it Sadhguru: It's called denture. I didn't mean to you use language in a certain way. Ananya I'm a millennial, I think. Sadhguru: You're Sadhguru: So, Y is a good generation... Sadhguru: No, Y is a good generation. Whatever Ananya Birla: This is very true. We do question Ananya Birla: ...and I don't know if it's Sadhguru: Question is never a people are always saying, &quot;Sadhguru, can I a wrong question?&quot; I say, &quot;How can a question That's my problem, I may say something how can you ask a wrong question? Is there high school examination, they asked you a wrong Ananya Birla: No... no you have. I was Sadhguru: So, see leadership means, people Leadership is a larger embrace of life. When you you know, like this young man was saying, This is personal ambition. If you're a leader, for all these people, all right? Whoever is in some way you sacrifice so many things. Other Others sleep on time, we never sleep on time. We we don't know where we will sleep. If I sleep it's a luxury, all right? Well, people may it that way. But if you think, you're doing somebody Hello? It can become a killing process. But and this is what you wish to do, then what See, first of all, anybody calling themselves You never say, I want to be a leader. People she's a leader.&quot; &quot;I am a leader, I am a leader.&quot; Other people should feel this is a leader. See, if you sit here... right now, we are sitting in the audience, we have a little better They put you on a perch. Once they put you on you will make an utter fool of yourself. It's you must see better. Maybe all of them are Because you see better, they'll put you up there. like a ship - on a vessel - the captain does Usually ship captains are like that. Everybody looking up to him because he sees. He sees what So, once you're a leader, you must have an that others cannot see. It's just this. Successful you will see today. That's all. Ananya Birla: that will really help. Thank you so much. Because if you don't have an inspired lot throw money around and inspire them how you inspire them, it doesn't matter, they the best out of people, isn't it? Ananya Birla: Absolutely. What are your thoughts around AI? Should we, as should we be embracing it? Because, of Or is it something that Sadhguru: See, in 2017 and 2018, I was invited I said, &quot;Why me? You know... I'm not an artificial technical person, why are you calling me for So, all these professors and academics who are &quot;We are all really worried that we will lose their jobs means it's a joy.&quot; All right? Then they probably if everything becomes AI, you're the tell us what is it?&quot; I said, &quot;See, this you must I foresee this long time ago. Anything that you can accumulate certain data, process, better than you. Anything, I want to lift I can lift you with the furniture, but a I remember, in '70s... nobody old enough to Sadhguru: So, Gen... Generation W, is it? saying that in Mazagon Docks, the coolies they were setting up the first gantry in the largest ships were approximately they were taking 24 to 28 days, one ship. within 24 hours because of machines. So, those days what are we supposed to do? What are we &quot;See, this is what the coolies were doing, this 'If AI comes, what are we supposed to do?' you must ask them and you must do that.&quot; All somebody is going to lose his job because he was essentially, I would like to move towards for their living. Living is taken care of because only that you do. Fantastic world, or no? especially in the West if you go, people ask me, Hello? For a living, what are you doing right put your life on lease, doing something just that you work 365 days all your life just to designed for, okay? Because once you come you must understand this, this you must you're the only species rather, whatever generation Did you call a tiger, a tiger-being? An ant, an They're all creatures, you are a being. What capable of determining how to be. If you If you knew how to be - blissful or miserable, Sadhguru: Blissful. So, if you knew how Whatever you can do, you will do your best Yes, or no? Only because you don't know how misunderstanding of life. Ananya Birla: I'm going to just put another How do we remain attached enough so that we can live without materialistic things Attachment, detachment tsh, tsh. So, how to be Ananya Birla: Yeah, thank you. Thank you. Sadhguru: See, people are saying because they No, because they all say only my left People... these days it's fashionable to say my So, half a brain is working. With that they read that Krishna said, you should not be attached. have said, look at his life. Is he an embodiment of Absolute involvement in small things, big You're accusing that man of teaching you everything with your half a brain. They're &quot;My left brain says this, my right brain says that.&quot; about everything. With a full brain you still can't is so complex. If you spend a million years here, Right now, you're talking about you being See, where this cosmos begins, where nor the men of science know. Yes, or no? Nobody cosmos... beginningless, endless cosmos, that we call as planet Earth. And the damn thing and we are sitting here nicely and talking all this. Not our making. And we have no clue in this You know, the Google Drop you have, where whether you are at the end of the cosmos, or thrown away somewhere - you don't We're quite fine, isn't it? So, this is the people, before you and me - you know, you are come and gone. When they lived, they also they are very smart. They also thought, they All topsoil. Not you, me also, this also will Sadhguru: Much later, 100 years later. But this Now, when we are sitting here, we're just a We think, &quot;This is my life, and I'm so it's just recycling its soil. Hello? Yes, or go to my office tomorrow? What is the use?&quot; draw a conclusion with every realization. conclusion, that'll be your last realization. As you realize more and more and more, life But every time you realize something, you want to If you live, this is not it. If you die, Ananya Birla: Thank you, guruji. Thank you so Yes, can we... can you help with the mic. Questioner 1: One of the things that you do what we love to do. Questioner 1: I... I... I... I'm trying... I'm love what we do, is that not therefore Sadhguru: See, first of all, I did not say you start doing fanciful things, all right? Because different things you love. When you were 18, you But that passed, isn't it? It's okay, you don't have when you're 15, 16, 18, 20, whatever you did it disappear, not only in terms of people, you loved a lollipop, that was the highest a small thing? It was the world. Hello? Lollipop So, don't try to do what you think you love you will do things that you suffer, and you for everybody. No, your suffering will never how to keep this one joyful, how will This is a lot of miserable people taking on this to be happy.&quot; This will never work. If you're what you like to do. But if you unfold your Anything that is necessary today, you can do we already sort of established this but the how to be, you also said blissful or did you whatever is needed you will do naturally, isn't does it make? See, people come to our center, I'm this kind of PhD.&quot; I say, &quot;All right, Because today that's what is needed, not that Today that's what is needed, other things are are missing, you cut the carrot, all right? So, I must tell you this. One 12-year-old boy writes few years ago. And he writes a long letter how he doesn't want to be like his parents I was just surprised, a 12-year-old boy, this he's written to me. I said, I want to see &quot;All this is fine, but why are you thinking that are stupid, that's why they produced you, all you wouldn't be here.&quot; Yes, or no? &quot;If they had you wouldn't exist. They were stupid, so they and now you want to do big spiritual things, See, our temple, Dhyanalinga temple, a meditation People will wait like this, when it comes tuk, suppose the temple does not open at 6 o'clock. 'What's happening? What's happening? Why is today is some... something... Sadhguru is they're preparing, it's closed.' Something, for last 30 years, without... you know, once a single day's break, everyday meal has been in the evening, without a single minute delay, and it didn't open, then you'll think, 'Why the will get little angry. Dat, buss. Then somebody today, maybe today is a festival, maybe today something else little later.' They'll come up you know, everything starts at 5:30 AM in 4:30 AM, all toilets are locked. In one hour's &quot;Which is more important - the toilet, dining hall, You better understand, the moment you think you have lost it. Tell me, which is more important more important, sitting in the toilet for a When we do all of it, life becomes important, life will be a mess. Yes, or no? So, the problem to do, what I love to do,&quot; somewhere in your mind what is worth doing, what is not worth doing. blissful by your own nature. Whatever is according to their competence, but what So, do not distinguish as, &quot;I love to do this. you see on a day when you're joyful how I would like to meet you on that day when you are. Another day you're little unhappy, frustrated about something. Oh, you could be a every human being. This is the mistake we good people. Good people are insufferable. Yes. that you don't want to live with. Hello? Can I tell a joke to him? He's a lawyer. So, Because he's a lawyer, he must laugh. Because where he goes. So, on a certain day, Shankaran &quot;You good for nothing people! You idiots, go &quot;Father, we don't know how to do any We don't know any such thing.&quot; He said, &quot;Go help So, they all went out. In the evening, one... &quot;Did you do any good thing?&quot; He said, &quot;Yes, &quot;Very good.&quot; Second son came. &quot;You?&quot; &quot;Yes, to cross the street.&quot; Third son came. &quot;What old lady to cross the street.&quot; He said, to cross the street?&quot; He said, &quot;No, father, you Whatever we did, she wouldn't come. We four of us held the four limbs and made You can do good things like this. Ananya Birla: Anyone else? Is that okay, guruji? Questioner 2: I am a professional comedian, and how can I improve my skills in engaging their learning journeys? Sadhguru: See, if you understand you're very smart, it's very hard to be funny. No, people as we already went through, we are a tiny a damn thing. Hello? We've assumed all all kinds of things to somehow bring some solace this is a fact. Yes, or no? Neither religions what is life. We know a few things for practical How is our existence happening here in the Well, you must be a nursery school child to go if you really look at existence... if you look at you will not still understand it. You're pretty larger intelligence of this existence, your then you will be funny naturally. If you think because if you cannot laugh at yourself, how if you simply laugh Questioner 3: How do I find that perfect spot Basically, the reality of my Sadhguru: See, contentment means containment. Because you're afraid if you over... overstep, from the beginning. If you know how to be happens to you is, you have no fear of suffering. you can walk full straight, no problem. change the experience of your life. You know, whatever we can do, everything, people around if we take this, we don't know whether we'll do making this happen?&quot; I say, &quot;Why are you we think is needed. It may work, it may not Can I share my problem with you? This happened... It started in 1982. So, on that day, I just sat ecstatic state where like every cell in my body there for ten, fifteen minutes, but when I opened For the first time, tears. Me and tears were I'm sitting there for four-and-a-half hours I'm a super skeptical person at that time, then I shake my head and think, &quot;What's Then I ask my closest friends, &quot;You know, I'm gone.&quot; They're, &quot;Come on, what did you and this and that. &quot;Come on, what did you take? point talking to anybody because there was I am not raised in any spiritual whatever. We Very agnostic kind of family, so I've barely in my life. So, I don't know anything. All I know I'm gone. So, this started happening it got established like a living experience. I sat down and made a plan. On that day the I just thought, &quot;Who... who wouldn't want Simply if you close your eyes, you're gone one idiot on the planet who wouldn't want &quot;In two-and-a-half years' time, I will make Population has become eight billion, And today people say we've touched over two billion it's eight billion-plus. So, I'm destined to be But I will die a blissful failure. Do you want to be a You are succes... you think, you're successful &quot;I did it, I did it.&quot; What's the point of that? something that you cannot do in this lifetime. the next step. So, my blessing is you Questioner 4: They say try and understand think about you. And my strategy is, &quot;Am I try understand myself?&quot; Is that a way Sadhguru: So, this is a choice you have. Please introduction, this is not a small question, okay? - do you want to understand this life or do you make that choice first. Because you thinking I understood life, they've just drawn their own understand life, everybody around thinks is a bloody If you experience your life, how you experiencing This is the only choice you have. As I said been the religions of the world especially, of the world have largely been talking about understand life, we just want to profoundly life more profound than the way it is right now? we've become so much Westernized. See, all so we are very Westernized. So, because we are thinking of being good human beings. people who think they are very good, they're Right now, a suicide bomber thinks he is doing a think so, he wouldn't throw your... his life at worthless thing, would he sacrifice his life? So, please don't do good things, they are most sensible thing around you, do the most Because our actions are relevant to the times the times in which we exist. Yes? All our we exist - it's not all ours. It is where we We are always trying to fix the action. of how you are. But today, your education is how to be. Because of that, no matter what I don't know if you've been around people the last moments when people pass, you will not in fear, they're just bewildered, because as life. Right now, it's happening to all of your thought and emotion as life. This is way you want. If you're a good director, bad director, it goes out of hand. It's your are going on within you, it is your drama, make it the way you want? Or are you such a So, you're misunderstanding psychological But unfortunately, most people don't realize they're bewildered because life didn't even begin, No, this is not what should happen. You must What will you understand? You will draw conclusions, Can I tell you a story? This happened. In 1924, Greek Orthodox Church, they have their own pope but they have become a small group now, at So, this bishop being in Istanbul, or all these exotic stories from India and China so many things about mysticism, mystics, So, he always had this desire, he wanted to But being a man of cloth, he couldn't decide years of age. Then he got an opportunity to He had a good guide who took him somewhere and directions and said, &quot;There is one cave where So, our man, bishop walked up. Mountains are you know? You may be very fit in the city, once So, our... the bishop went huffing, puffing. a Yogi was sitting blissed out. So, he had been told, But you know, there are objections. So, with knees and making all that fuss, he got up. eyes and smiled. Then the bishop asked, &quot;Can &quot;By all means.&quot; Then the bishop asked, &quot;What Now, he's over 60 years of age, now asking what when you were eight. When you were eight you But, maybe you were too playful, you did not ask. because at... that is the time questions will Now, you are over 60, you're asking. Good, better So, when he asked, &quot;What is life?&quot; The Yogi went fragrance of jasmine upon gentle spring upon gentle spring breeze? My teacher told me if you sit it hurts, if you stand it hurts, if you like that, isn't it? Whatever they do, or they if they don't do that it hurts. &quot;Then you are upon gentle spring breeze?&quot; So, Yogi said, &quot;Ha, what you call as life is not a defined quantity. of our existence. Instead of making it a you want to define. Because if you want You cannot understand something which you are already in a box. No, I'm being Questioner 5: Yeah. It's been absolutely made me think and just wonder that sometimes then there's one perception of what people you think people think you are. Questioner 5: It's part of my... Ananya Birla: Guruji, see... see where I Sadhguru: No, there is no such Questioner 5: How... Is it necessary Questioner 5: ...need to be in harmony. And not in harmony with the universe _____ ? Sadhguru: See, only when we are dead because they can make whatever Questioner 5: _____ what... you know Sadhguru: No, no. You know what you think Sadhguru: That's how the question started. You Now you think they maybe thinking something you can make it any way you want. Right now, helps to close your eyes, do this. Otherwise, with Think of a tiger, can you? Hello? Participants: can you? A mountain? You can. So, I'm saying But right now, you have given up that it thinks in a certain way. So, that is not you consciously generate a certain thought, that is it's simply running. So, if it's simply See, suppose my hand is simply jumping. What will If your... if your mind is simply jumping only thing is, nobody else can see. That's the If somebody pays enough attention, they can This is because there's a fundamental flaw how we perceive ourselves, what we call Just like this? You were just this much. Sadhguru: Yeah, she was also small, you no.&quot; No, no, she was only this much, What made it like this? Food that we eat, isn't of the food that you've eaten. The food that you've We get it now, it's great. Otherwise, one There's no problem about realization, when will soonest, we'll live one way. If it happens accumulation, am I correct? Yes. What you call as that you have taken in - what you see, what what you touch, from this you have accumulated can be yours, can never be you, isn't it? Right vessel and say, &quot;This is my vessel.&quot; You will Why is he saying such a thing?&quot; But then you says he is wise.&quot; After some time I say, Because this is a clear case, isn't it? But on your plate, you say, &quot;This is my food.&quot; You are thinking the accumulations that you with body and mind. It is going to clothes, it's friends, it's going to wealth. You slowly start of yourself as something other than what you It will go on endlessly. Awake or asleep, wrong identification of believing yourself to be Then when you want, you can think. Just like When you don't want, you can keep it here. This is When you want you can use it, when you don't faculty is useful. If it runs all over the place, What is it that human beings are suffering? They take away half their brains, they will all sit to themselves? Some people are soaking it in So, once their brains don't function, they feel you must feel blissful. Disabled, you feel You disable yourself and feel peaceful or blissful, When you're dead, everything is peaceful. You're alive, fully on, and you're blissful - this brief happening, don't ever forget that. You you've made yourself miserable or made life if you're very happy, that day, 24 hours poof, Another day, you're little frustrated, depressed, people can have a long life. If you're really it'll be gone. It's so brief. For what potential it's nothing, it'll be gone before you know going the way it is, it's not about what I it's not about that. It is compulsive thought This compulsiveness cannot be countered with If there is darkness in this room, if you... If there's darkness in this hall, if I give even if you are a big whatever, kung-fu fighter, switch on the light and it's gone. That's the the only way, you can deal with compulsiveness just this - that an intelligence beyond What did you have for lunch, ma? You can tell Oh, you come from Kerala. All right. Appam doesn't appam doesn't taste like you, but you eat it and So, there is an intelligence within this What a transformation in four hours' time. and make a human being out of it, who would you If I take a appam and make a human being You are doing it every day, not in your doing it, or no? Hello? So, this is the whole which is the very source of creation. You're with what you have gathered. In terms of body, things and people you gathered, you're too missing an intelligence which is the very that intelligence, there is no question... There shall be no question in your life because that If you are in touch with Questioner 6: Parents today, and that's me what we have to But children don't want to take it actually. Sadhguru: I'm glad. I am glad that you have taking up your thoughts and your attitudes. Questioner 6: And... and that creates a you know, harmony at home? Sadhguru: See, if you wanted that, that your that is possible if you were some other Your children need not be like you, at all. you could not imagine. So, when they do something all right? You're freaking not because they're not like you. Because when they're not They never were your property. You you can't create a life,