- Hey everybody, welcome for the month of August. Let's roll it. All right, let's see if this really works. - Oh, I hope so. - You get the Mentos? - I knew it was fake. Look out! - Let's get out of here. - Oh, no. - Oh my Goodness. - Hurry, shut the door. Close the windows, it's - Anybody sit right here? - No. - Whoa, what? What in the... Let me try. - Okay. - Oh man! - Life guarding. (whistles) Hey, can't be on the rocks. - Canon ball! What is this? Hey, I'm still in here. - All right Zach, see what you got. - Okay. Whoo. - Solid board slide. - Yeah, it's nice. - Can I borrow that? - Sure. - All right, so last month I challenged you guys item and film a magic trick with it. So I'm in our prop room, which has props from all that we made. You'll notice we have a lot of miniatures. We have all furniture setups. We've got the exterior And then we have a lot of I mean, we've got And you can see items from like the Harry Potter mirror. So I'm excited to jump in and see what your favorite items were and what you created with them. (upbeat music) So my all time favorite item is my laptop, but it's not just any laptop. It's my pocket version. So, this little guy opens up and then it does some cool features too, like, like you can but I also use it for some other purposes. (upbeat music) (screams) Let's just say I will not be grilling with my laptop anymore, but let's jump into the tech that you guys showcased in your videos. Yes, you can also use like I did, but you can Keep going, you got it, you got it. Oh. - The notorious empty So if you don't feel like you can always keep a snack on hand. That's smart. That's what airlines should do, with the little peanuts Sometimes you don't have to wait around for a package to arrive. So, what this guy is doing is taking matters into his own hands. Wait, literally he's oh, that was cool. That's actually really sweet. Grabbing the keyboard. This is the oldest trick in the book. Or should I say the tablet? I love people sending in those Now some of my favorite that require, you know, morphing item from one thing to a You guys sent in a bunch so let's take a look at those. All right, so she just, I think she put a carrot which if this is like one Oh wow, she actually did it. I thought it was gonna turn They got a real rabbit, that's amazing. He's journaling and writing and... Oh, that's, that's a cool Do another trick where I like, grab the sun from Now, I don't know if a lot of but apparently it can (speaks in foreign language) Just like, let's see if I can do that. I'm gonna work on that. For now, they're just breath fresheners. You know, balloons are another great item. You know, with every pop you Okay, so what's he hiding inside this one? Oh, that's, who had known? Inside the balloon, this is People don't realize this, like, while the jump cut is rather simple in that technique, like that room it's a mess to clean up each take. All right, comment down What, what is gonna pop into this time? Maybe a toy car, something, or... Okay, wasn't, wasn't expecting that, but it looped though, it loop nice. All right, what's happening here? This guy is vacuuming. Cleaning this rug, that's a Wait, something just sparked on it. It ate him. He's working out, This, is this... Oh, he got sucked in. That's funny, I've been wanting to do a similar thing like that. Hopefully that trainer has CPR training. Home back to real life. I used to have a personal Is Terry Cruz just helped - Come on Zach, you asked and that's exactly what I'm about to do. Go lower, get those elbows out. Let's make this happen. Let's go! - It's gotta hurt. New year, new you, 2020 is - Give me some water. - Hey, what, get out of here. - He eventually gave up on me. Actually the weights from I'm still using them to pump some iron. Actually, these are, these are just foam. You know, it's movie magic. All right, let's see what's next. - This is how you make a putty portal. - He said portal putty? Oh, that's cool. That was, the timing was great. I wonder if that was Sometimes your favorite items have a little snack hidden inside. Oh, clever. It's making me hungry. - Check this out. This is how I solve a Rubik's cube. - Oh, sweet, a Rubik's cube guy. - Excuse me, hey that's mine. - Maybe he knows about the candy. - It's not a puppy toy, bring it back. - Give it back dog. - That dog is cute. - Thank you. - Oh, did that dog just Hold up, hold up. That's a clever concept. We're gonna re watch that. - Get him. - All right, so he has - Hey, that's mine. It's not a puppy toy, bring it back. - I don't understand. Thank you. - Cody, that's good. Speaking of dogs, I know their favorite but when you don't have a you gotta do what this guy did. He just summons the sun Oh, that's a cool effect. Hope it's not gonna burn the dog's mouth. This guy is trying to He just grabs it, a little day to night. And Oh, you turn a fire. Puts it out, puts it back at the moon. Not the moon, oh, back to the sun. All right, Jared, what do you got? - So I bounce this ball, it comes apart and then goes back together. - Wait what? - Every time, I don't Oh, okay, and it did not come back again. - What is this trickery? - So, we're going through a in Southern California. I don't know how hot it's been for you, but I wish I could cool This is the good old ice bucket challenge. Nice, now hopefully it Okay, we've got Matthew. He's always got some classic stuff. Looks like he's making Is that what it's gonna be? Well done Matthew, as always. - Oh, no, no, no. - Little crash landing there. Oh, I love that, how he stitched together with the falling out of the real tree. It looked like he heard his back. Matthew hope you're okay. Also Matthew, is this like your eighth pin or something like that? You need to make a or lifetime achievement award. Maybe all the pins, you can you know, fix your back on the last done. I'll send you a stunt pad. - Pajman, what do you got? What do you got? A little hoodie magic. That was really smooth, wow. Oh, and now he's back. Reminds me of a trick I did called the slide to youth. Man, I miss being a kid. - This is the best day ever. - All right, let's see how this kid, is he changing clothes or? Cool, just pop off. He's still going, he's still going. Okay, switch to his school hat. That is all very smooth. And that took a long, long time because there was a lot jump cuts. Takes a lot of practice. Doing clothes is frustrating. Cause your head always has Ahmed, yeah. He's, he's submitted before. What's he doing? He's grab, reaching the box for... Is the camera lens box? What did you get, a cookie? Oh, lens, lens cap, nice. Which could turn into a cookie. We got a fireworks show. And this, kid's up to no Whoa, that's some serious destruction. Hopefully that's fake. (speaks in foreign language) - Toilet pepper. Duplicated. Oh, interesting, he gave Oh, and the light comes off. Yeah, there was a lot So everyone who is featured is getting one of the summer edition Magic Of The Month pins. If this is your third time submitting, you're getting the black gold edition Magic Of The Month pin. So if you're featured in next you're going to be I've got a little unveiling here. This is the fall edition So, whoever's featured next month. You'll be getting one of these. So, next month theme, back to school. Obviously, it looks different for everybody going back right now, but that's gonna be our theme, whether you're zooming into your class, or you're going to your class. Show us you're back to school magic. Maybe it's how you put on a backpack, or maybe it's how you teleport to school. You guys be creative, have fun. And if you've never submitted it and you want to submit just go down below, the Zach King magic dot com slash challenge. We can't wait to see Oh, before I go, if you I have a brand new You can check it out right now. That's what the trailer is playing. Go click, right here. David, good to see ya. - Yeah, what's going on? - I wanted to get your feedback - Of course. - Okay, so I would show and hit x-ray mode, and - Is that a frog? - Yeah, you see that?