It's the 16th of October 2009. In the east of Berlin, is about to reopen. The museum houses the finest collection However, the biggest draw is the arrival the bust of Nefertiti. It's a masterpiece that had been on display Now Nefertiti is moving homes in the Neues Museum. I think it's an absolute masterpiece It really is perfection One sees the perfect beauty. Where does it come from? The life made her a star. It's a little like the Mona Lisa. It is the icon of the Egyptian identity. Nefertiti is over 3,000 years old. Tremendous care is taken to ensure That she is in such good shape in the history But the party is spoilt by some news that is widely reported in the media The controversial claim comes conducted by author I've no doubt in my mind or a model. What first made the academics dubious of Nefertiti's bust The object was incongruous. It bore no resemblance from Egypt. To historian Henri Stierlin, the bust of Nefertiti or, as he puts it, too new to be true. Then there is a second bust It's a bust of her husband, It's completely disfigured. Why should there be a contrast which were found at the same time, Is Nefertiti a fake? In Montpellier in southern France, Marc Gabolde, considers Stierlin's claims. I have to say he was right but the arguments he's provided If he can give me that it is a forgery, There's certainly some doubts. In the basement a news conference is being held. The journalists are taking notes, about the charges of authenticity. In Germany, such accusations because the bust, by German archaeologist Ludwig Borchardt, Nevertheless, we did ask the question Friederike Seyfried. When you stand before the bust, It goes without saying it's authentic. The real question is, Numerous archaeologists, expressed their doubts but none of them So we have decided Everyone's being very circumspect. No one has dared come right out Is the most famous bust To find out, subjected the bust to a lie detector What we uncovered during our inquiry about Egypt's most mysterious queen Who was Nefertiti? It's one of the great mysteries Eras of archaeologists gone through each hieroglyphic in an attempt to find the least evidence Archaeologists went up the Nile probing one of the country's for any traces of Queen Nefertiti. In this labyrinth of columns and temples, they finally found It was chiseled directly into a stone However, nothing is known She was probably Egyptian, the wife of the 18th dynasty Pharaoh, Nefertiti was the principal wife She was the only one who had the right We know the Queen's sisters but we know nothing To be honest, we don't know. She's the queen of Egypt, and documents, but also the one of whom It's not known but what's striking with a face It's thanks to her husband, Akhenaten, that her name has survived. The Pharaoh has gone down in history as the only deity During his reign in the 18th dynasty, many of them open to the skies to shine through. In his new religion, as he and the Sun God Nefertiti and Akhenaten of all the Pharaonic couples. Their love for each other On the statuaries, For the first time, the people witnessed holding hands. They are portrayed or the more astonishing are the images They are depicted on the Royal Chariot The Queen is shown placing a necklace and he seizes the moment It's a very intimate moment In the seventh year of their reign, relocate from Karnak in the middle of the desert. There they built a new royal city, which means the Sun's horizon. The famous couple in the history of Egypt that was built quickly A city dotted with temples Akhenaten and Nefertiti worshipping the Sun God. The reign of Akhenaten and Nefertiti After their deaths, of their existence In less than 30 years, back into the desert. You might say When you dig through the 18th Dynasty's the only time they were occupied Just over 15 years. It gives one a real snapshot It was in this five by ten kilometer that on the 6th of December 1912, the bust of Nefertiti Ludwig Borchardt He became the most famous archaeologist Egypt, its monuments and architecture In 1906, the German archaeologist in the remains of Akhenaten's City. A ghost town, according to some, but the site of a terrible act Borchardt is persuaded On the 6th of December 1912, surrounded by his team, celebrated bust of Nefertiti. The statuette carved from limestone was found just 50 centimeters Borchardt has resurrected and technicolour queen. How did archaeologist Borchardt appear out of nowhere? Before the arrival of the German, had been the virtual preserve and their chief who had led major excavations They had opened tombs, of senior officials, However, they had never run into anything When Borchardt's it made the British sneer. They are convinced Flinders Petrie was already there. He stopped at the end of the 19th century For him, he was through. He had the idea it is done As we know, this was not true. Borchardt came to Amarna initially as a major source of information At the back of his mind was the fact with the Berlin Museum. He rather wanted something spectacular At the start of the 20th century, Egypt was the world's largest Prussia had lagged behind Kaiser William ordered Borchardt whatever the cost. Before excavations begin, seeks the advice many of whom do business with looters. He's told that part of Akhenaten's Borchardt is also an architect, he'd drawn up floor plans Once inhabited by artisans, and the looters. He's interested in housing, so he starts by digging These can be distinguished on the site Later, he extends the dig By an unusual stroke of luck, and the house of the sculptor Thutmosis, Borchardt soon realizes that includes several sculptors' studios. Excited, the archaeologist decides to dig Behind the silos he identifies the house the personal sculptor of Akhenaten It was here that Borchardt Intrigued, we retrace the steps, of archaeologist Ludwig Borchardt and search out the house Tell El Amarna is a five hour drive Akhenaten and Nefertiti's ghost town. Joining us is Luke Vautrin, who was employed by the courts Egyptian archaeologist Amada of the dig at Tell El Amarna. Here as you can see, As you can see, made after the excavation by Borchardt. There's nothing. Luke Vautrin has an exceptional document, the notes and sketches in which he writes extensively The document will prove invaluable where Nefertiti's bust was uncovered. Look, Patrick, This is a very important house on 6th December 1912, which is now in Berlin Museum. This is what remains 3,300 years later the chief sculptor. It's in one of these rooms that Borchardt With a map, archaeologist Luke Vautrin This is quite moving It's almost certain would have entertained and why not Queen Nefertiti herself? If you leave the room in that direction, here we get to the sculptor's studio and behind the door, and Borchardt's notes it's right here in this corner According to Borchardt, Nefertiti yet still so realistic. That's not all, turns out to be filled with treasures. Borchardt finds other pieces, Plaster masks, strangely lifelike, a model that's incomplete, found lying next to Nefertiti's. Ludwig Borchardt to the museum in Berlin. In all this archaeological fairy tale, that grabs the attention of a historian. It's an element that will spark In his colonial style house in Cairo, will take more than ten years on his digs at Tell El Amarna. He tells how he found the limestone bust and another bust also in limestone its face ripped apart. In his topographical notes, to note the location He also marked had been found. Per his drawings, the bust of Nefertiti The bust of Akhenaten was the first near the entrance to the left. The passage of time and the bust of Nefertiti with it. Akhenaten's bust while strangely Nefertiti's was intact, almost as if it had just left The whole story was pure deception That was the conclusion who had investigated He questions Borchardt's report &quot;simply too beautiful to be authentic.&quot; How is it possible that such a delicate object, could have fallen about a meter and a half and rubble without being damaged? Especially since he claims Then he says It's hardly possible Besides, when the object fell. When his inquiry began in 1984, expressed his doubts to Dietrich Wildung, and beyond all reproach at the time, Wildung had studied the bust for years He had written a letter to Stierlin. In the letter that he wrote he said, Here, let me quote you word for word. He writes, In other words, convincing and coherent. In the letter, Dietrich Wildung about the state of conservation and that its style was not consistent and that he was even willing Then in 1989, he's named the curator and makes a dramatic U-turn. Then Wildung, in which he says of the Berlin Museum The whole issue and that he was distancing himself and therefore However, to me, the most worrying thing came down from Berlin Historian Henri Stierlin and will continue albeit now totally isolated. Fascinated by the story, for a meeting with Dietrich Wildung. On the eve of our interview, the archaeological expert We call back, Hello, Wildung here. Mr. Dietrich Wildung. Yes. I'm calling because we have a meeting I wanted to know what time I sent an email out today in which I absolutely refuse Otherwise, We learnt that the German authorities have formally forbidden Wildung or to mention Henri Stierlin's research. To the historian, the bust of Nefertiti Borchardt had a copy of the bust made sculpting techniques on plaster and in particular In fact, he had at his disposal materials during the excavations at Tell El Amarna. He had everything on site. Plaster is fairly easy to make The stone it's made from It's a country of limestone. You can use a large piece of limestone After that, you put the plaster on. Then let the sculptor do his work He had a great number of faces that had been found. Like this bust, an unfinished, which was also discovered It has traces of carbon Did Borchardt use a model which he then had painted? Borchardt is very precise He states he found adding they were all still quite usable. However, if this was an experimental copy, never spoke of it to his team, According to the historian, the archaeologist was in Cairo. He learns that a German princely family and wants to visit Caught unprepared, He arrives on the 6th of December, 1912, which was meant He immediately sets them back to work. Later, he proudly shows their highnesses In an excess of zeal, an Egyptian called Sanusi, Then returns with a bust of Nefertiti. The Royals are pleased with a masterpiece leaving Borchardt no time to explain Henri Stierlin claims the photo You couldn't just tell the royal visitors Listen, you're mistaken. It's ridiculous. It would make a mockery of the royals. It was simply not possible or the royals and that would have been lese majesty Which at the time was very serious and could have ruined After the Royals left for almost 11 years. Borchardt reportedly gave it It was the wealthy tycoon to Tell El Amarna. They were so excited, that they'd found this beautiful figure. It was a great anticipation here in Berlin The bust sat on his coffee table sitting in his home. From 1912 to 1924, to show the queen in public. At first, I didn't realize the missing eye to her image and dignity. A one-eyed Nefertiti, and sacrilege against the pharaonic image To find out more, in Belgium. There, Dimitri Laborie, and archaeology of ancient Egypt, It's a tool, like an artist's dummy. A studio model used so the sculptor of the sanctioned image of Nefertiti and probably Nefertiti herself. The Bust and many others like it were, communication tools. The official portrait of the Queen to the priests and the people As to the fact one eye was missing, according to the experts, To show the exact depth to correctly inlay Nefertiti's eyes. Dimitri Laborie says of the Akhenaten family style. If you look at Akhenaten's mouth and you look at the mouths and you look at that they're shaped differently, The key argument has in fact been disproved by one of Germany's best Egyptologists, What we know is that the bust was made Not just any proportions, but those of the Egyptian finger. In Britain and the USA, the foot and the inch The Egyptians used the finger To create a new bust, to have first drawn up a reference grid Each line was based The bust of Nefertiti Rolf Krauss also proved how certain to precise facial anatomical points. The base of the nose, for example, In this way, with the base of the chin She's made based on propotions calculated on the Egyptian unit of 1.875 centimeters, the Egyptian finger. She's built metrically. The counterfeiter at the time how to use the Egyptian centimeter The proportional grid of the bust of Nefertiti across Egypt. Apparently, the forgers at the start There's yet another anomaly the shoulders that are cut vertically. The arms on the bust were cut vertically it's just not something Busts are cut horizontally, and not vertically. Is the bust of Nefertiti the only artwork of its kind To seek an answer, The director, Fried Seyfried, of a bust cut vertically. It's this one also discovered and part of a collection of objects Upset at the scandal rummaged through the entire storage or at least what's left of it. Yes, it is possible to see other examples This one is from the excavations You can still see the line and you can clearly see the shoulders A second bust does exist In the spat between experts, to finally prove In Berlin, the Neues Museum, in an effort to put an end has decided to submit to a lie detector test. Can science finally prove it's genuine? The bust has been transferred What Nefertiti has in her brain The first observation is the bust A lump covered in the plaster, the sculptor or counterfeiter It's proof Nefertiti was altered. Here you can clearly see the shoulder The white part is limestone. What you see below it in gray is plaster, It's been added to make some corrections. What's absolutely clear from the rearview is that the right shoulder Plaster had been used to correct of the limestone Nefertiti bust. The sculptor had even altered as well as the bridge of the nose Was this the world's first facelift? Other than some proof of plaster surgery, The tomography isn't definitive proof. By cutting out samples you cannot prove when it was made. You can only state and that there's a layer of plaster However, as to when, we just can't tell. I can't tell using this method What about the plaster itself used Does it date from the time of Akhenaten? The Germans took a sample from the bust a specialist in ancient Egyptian objects. Several elements were found in the sample in the Armenian period The same as in the architecture Which means the plaster mix The composition of the plaster Simply, the plaster that covers is indeed of the type used by Egyptians When the bust was discovered, they had no way of knowing The technology that allows such analysis A counterfeiter would have had no way He might, though, have used plaster found For now, though, There's one other scientific way The pigments which make the bust so vivid and make the mouth so sensual. Four colors dominate art in Egypt, Each dynasty's artists, however, to mix and use pigments. By analyzing the pigments can the bust be finally authenticated? The study of the pigments showed us were indeed those used in ancient Egypt and the technique of preparing were then abandoned during this period. Here too the forger could have cheated. As you may remember, Borchardt, when he discovered Nefertiti had also uncovered a treasure trove There were and the renowned lapis lazuli blue. By the end of Akhenaten's reign, when the sculptors and artisans they took with them A large part of their reserves However, they would have left behind maybe to decorate a queen. Is Nefertiti real or a fake? The experts have no doubt. All the scientific and historic tests The materials are all authentic. However, there remains one issue None of the materials with which it's made No technology exists The Technicolor Queen of Eternal Youth will, therefore, and like all the great ladies of history, In the early part of the 20th century, played at being explorers following in the footsteps The discovery of the bust of Nefertiti sparked a particular craze for all objects Unfortunately, However, At around this time in Cairo, starts a lucrative business. He provides artists with genuine articles or use to make fakes. It's almost too easy since at the time, Bruch was in charge of the shop For a while, particularly the restorers, To study them, as it were. Some of the restorers Today, their identity is largely unknown, such as this 1910 image One is Paolo Dingli from Malta, Dingli exercised his skills at home. Curiously, Ludwig Borchardt One of Borchardt's obligations for museums back in Germany. In those days It was crucial There were many forgers back then how much counterfeit stuff they produced. The question remains about if some museums There's not one museum anywhere The quality of some of the fakes and there are no guarantees wouldn't be taken in. We all have something in stock Fakes that for the most part date Modern Cairo Are there still forgers as talented To get the answer, Luke Vautrin, an archaeologist comes with us We're going to Memphis, It's an area that has many studios live and work. It might be risky, we have to be careful, we should be able to win their trust The counterfeiters headquarters a poor area where no tourist ever goes. To establish contact with the forgers acting on behalf of rich collectors. Mudia doesn't have his own studio yet. He works from home. At the moment he's working with limestone. He suggests sculpting in less than ten minutes. Do you see how fast he is? Look at the technique he's using The limestone he's chosen is very soft. Using a simple rasp, in just a few minutes. Then he soaks the sculpture in water to make the veins The result is convincing. One can imagine what this young forger working in granite or other type of rock, It's good. Ask him he could make an exact copy of it. Yes, I can copy it. No problem, I can show you To convince us Mudia shows us a bust in rose granite, and which he's copied just The stone Mudia is using It would certainly fool the experts. Where does it come from? How can you get hold of stone The answer lies a short distance These are the ruins of a temple that dates It's not the only one, from the Ramesses' period. The site lies abandoned and unsupervised an open air mine for the forgers. The remains of ancient Egypt In a few years, nothing will be left. Everything will have been pillaged, just forgeries or in this column of hieroglyphics. These at least, are genuine. Berlin, March 2011, 18 months Visitors flock in their thousands Egypt has ever sent to Germany, the German's very own Mona Lisa. On the far side of the Mediterranean, at the Neues has stirred anger At the end of the main gallery the most powerful man has agreed to be interviewed in the hall and his wife, Nefertiti. He doesn't mince his words. For almost two years, until we have a proof was taken illegally out of Egypt. The bust of Nefertiti and not in Berlin. Did the Germans Zahi Hawass has made a serious charge. At the start of the 20th century, the custom was that were equally divided and the state of Egypt. Zahi Hawass, the secretary general of Antiquities in Egypt, when it came to Nefertiti. In that time, there was a protocol to be discovered at Amarna In January 1913, the Egyptian authorities to ensure the equal partition It was Lefebvre to the Germans. Why did a Frenchman, of all people, in Egyptian history Here's the official version, On the 17th of January, 1913, Gustave Lefebvre leaves Cairo The excavations had already ended Every object the Germans had found ready to leave for the museum in Berlin. Ludwig Borchardt is waiting for Lefebvre. The German is tense, might confiscate his prized possession, We know what happened that evening, an eyewitness to the dividing and one of Borchardt's colleagues. He described what happened Guterbock says the cases were opened I wasn't there, and neither were you. We can't say However, Gustave Lefebvre On what basis did Lefebvre act? Why did he allow the Germans According to eyewitness, Guterbock, Borchardt outmaneuvered He knew but was an expert in ancient writings. To stop Lefebvre rummaging through Borchardt shows him object number one. Which he says is his principal discovery. It's a coloured stone tablet and the princesses. Lefebvre seizes the chance Still, according to the witness, Borchardt produced of the sculptures, busts of the princesses, and of course, that of Nefertiti. A majestic and royal portrait that Lefebvre wouldn't have realized that this object The scandal is revealed by Rolf Krauss. The former curator decides to reveal the details He claims Lefebvre never examined and that he was never shown but another photo instead. Guterbock wrote that Lefebvre One which showed only a part of the bust, but not the whole bust. The photograph was dark, it was not clear. It was not colored like today. What Lefebvre allegedly saw then without her royal headdress and necklace, Lefebvre did have the possibility by taking them That way, he would have discovered Lefebvre was taken towards the cases, but he never asked He couldn't have known that among them Borchardt tried his best and he took it out of Egypt illegally. Did Borchardt trick Lefebvre by showing him an incomplete photo Who cheated? Obviously, Borchardt. Archaeologist, Rolf Krauss, should be in a museum in Cairo, We found it in this extraordinary document It's the official list of how the fines were divided, written by Gustave Lefebvre. In the left hand column are the things Object number one, representing Akhenaten and Queen Nefertiti In the right hand column, object number one is listed as a bust. It's not of a queen, made of painted plaster. Queen Nefertiti, therefore, in the most infamous sharing Will she ever resume her place leaving behind her only her royal shadow?