Mr. Lu 6 years ago The woman found her Pregnant at the time The child should be almost 5 years old now. They live in this neighborhood. Removed immediately Now the Duke is Mother Didn't you say you would take us to see dad today ? Where's Dad? That's your dad. Mommy, you started dreaming so early It's still daytime. And a handsome man 9 out of 10 are weird Mommy, you only look at the face Very easy to be deceived Mom, I advise handsome men Any questions? You still want to choose Pregnancy before marriage Also brought two oil bottles There is a man who wants you Even if you are missing arms and legs I have to burn incense to thank my ancestors. Tell me, what are you doing back here? Mom, didn't I leave 100,000 yuan at home? Xiaoxin and Xiaoyue are already old enough to go to school. I want to use this money for tuition Where is the 100,000? All spent Mom, you spent it all. Mom, I'm back. I want to eat this Zhang Le, why are you back? Your ex-husband is asking you for money again. Mom, he sold our house. From now on, Zixuan and I will have nowhere to go. Oh, this shameless You guys can come back and live here later. Mom still has some money Can afford you Um Don't move Little girl, this is Xiaoxin and Xiaoyue's father The only thing left to them Can't break it Isn't it just a broken jade pendant? Sister, I advise you not to think about that man. The man my mom introduced to you before You should at least have some snacks. Although he is ten years older than you. At least I have a house and a car I will also dislike you bringing children If my aunt is so good Why don't you marry him? Adults talking Why are you interrupting a child? Sister, please at least consider me and mom a little more. Let's save some time Why don't I think about you? To raise money for your tuition I dropped out of school to study for the pre-season game Playing a game and making someone disabled My mother and I can't even hold our heads up. Right? Jiang Feng, you're done. Stop arguing, Jiang Han Go out and buy groceries and cook. Be careful not to fall mom Where do you get so much money? Given by Jiang Han You take it and use it Don't tell me it's him. Definitely have money But he seemed to say that the two children had to go to school He won't come to you for money. Humph, she is not my biological daughter. No money required I don't care whether his two children study or not What to open the door Who is it? This is Lu Yan, the president of Lu Group. Lu Group It is the Lu Group with assets of tens of billions. That's right We are looking for a decision He got drunk at the Imperial Hotel 6 years ago You are pregnant with a child who is walking on the road Six years ago Could it be that the wild man who had sex with my sister It's Lu Yan, the president of Lu Group. Then he will be very successful. Trampled me underfoot Miss, did you hear that? I am I am among you please I am the woman you are looking for. Zixuan She is your child. Her name is Zixuan What was your hotel room number? So many years have passed. How can I remember Let's go etc. I have evidence Look at this This is the jade pendant you mailed me that year. I have kept it well. I thought you would come back to find me and the kids one day. You go arrange it Take people home You can't leave your child alone at home. It's Mr. Lu Hey Thief Someone stole something Get up, whose finger is pointing at your saliva? This is your sister. If you ruin my good deeds, I will die Uncle Lu, are you okay? Oh, I'm sorry. I have something to do . This lady Leave your phone number I will repay you Is my brother disturbing my mother? Well, the method is a bit old-fashioned He looks so handsome Mommy can't walk when she sees a handsome guy I'm afraid it's going to fall. Should I call him dad? I also saw injustice and helped, no need to thank me Miss Jiang, please This is the Lu family All this in the future belongs to me and Zixuan. Miss Jiang ordered This will be your room from now on. What's the meaning Where is Mr . Lu? He doesn't live here The young master sleeps in his own master bedroom He arranged this for you. Brother, pack my things. Fallen Leaves Why did you just come back? I've been waiting for you for a long time . What are you going to do? Don't you want to experience what it felt like that night? Dragon Lord Dragon Lord I asked you to come here for the children. Don't enter my room anymore. Lu Yan How many points does hair have out of 100 points How many points are there for shoes out of 100 points How many points for clothes 100 points Jiangnan beauty Your perfect makeup today You will definitely be able to successfully get the job. Don't worry, babies. Mom will make money. Let you go to the best school Next Hello, I want to interview our salesperson. Didn't even graduate from university With two children Interviewer, my sister and I are very obedient. It will definitely not affect your work I will work hard for you. Are you blind? Please look carefully. Our Lu Even cleaners are required to have a bachelor's degree or above Do you have a bachelor's degree? I'm not good Don't say I didn't give you a chance. Certificate in English Your Human Resources Management Certificate Do you have an accounting qualification certificate? No, why waste time here? Our time is precious. Let's go I can't just forget The salary for entering the room is the best I have to be careful to unlock the tuition fee I want to interview a bodyguard I can box You are the only woman who can box Sister, I advise you to clean up. Go home and do the laundry and cooking. How can women Women can do a lot of things What era is it now? You still discriminate against women. The country has said Women now hold half the sky Men can do We women can do it. you you what you You are also a human being Why do you look down on women? I think you are binding women's feet. Now you are wrapping your cerebellum You dare to scold me Hello uncle Mr. Lu, why are you here? Mom you Isn't that the handsome uncle who chatted with you last time? It's him He is actually the president of Lu Group See you again yes Do you want to interview a bodyguard? It's Mr. Lu. How can a woman like him be a bodyguard? Your safety is the most important I think you are a woman too I hope you respect women. Respect yourself at the same time yes I monitored her strength. Give her a gift of secret compensation But Mr. Lu Since Manager Feng doesn't believe in my ability Then I can prove my ability How to prove Don't worry, Uncle Xia My mom is awesome. All right Jiang Han, right? You choose an opponent Or maybe him? Mr. Lu, I don't want to bully the enemy. Let's change it. Shameless Just him You are serious It can be soft but both sides stop at the point band-aid What are you giving me this for? Auntie, you are about to be slapped in the face It hurts to be slapped in the face Little Bunny What nonsense are you talking about? Uncle Rou bullies me Sister, I advise you to lose. I've never hit a woman. Stop wasting time. So you can see You asked for it snort snort I'll just say he can't do it. This uncle deserves to be in trouble. Come on, mom Indications You better admit defeat now. Women can't beat me. Really? Come Write I said it hurts to be slapped in the face I declare that from now on Miss Xiao Han is my bodyguard And you go back and take a shower Mr. Nuo, I'll open the door for you. who Pretty strong Mom finally found a job Xiaoyue, you want Take good care of your sister at school, okay? My sister, leave it to me Mommy, just go and make money without worry. Really good Mom, look at brother Zixuan. But why did Uncle Lu hold Brother Zixuan's hand ? You're seeing it wrong Didn't see it Mom, I'm not wrong. Don't lie about meeting your parents. It's Uncle Lu You didn't communicate with me Mr. Lu, why are you here? I' m here to take my kids to school. Send the child you are married There are children. Today is your first day at work. Half an hour late Can you come in, baby? Mr. Lu, wait for me. Mr. Lu, I have to ask for leave from you at 4 pm Come pick up the kids I asked for leave on the first day. Jiang Hai is really you You don't have to worry about it. I asked Assistant Chen to take over in the afternoon Wow Mr. Lu is so nice! Mr. Lu, be careful I'm sorry, Mr. Lu. I'm afraid you'll be Books hit It's okay. His smell is really familiar. Jiang Hua, I have something to ask you You tell me Well Mommy, we're here to pick you up. Mr. Lu has been taken home by the housekeeper. Mom, we saw brother Zixuan today. He said he has a new dad. New Dad He said his father's name is Um It seems to be Lulu Xiaoyue, what's wrong with you? Did you give him anything to eat on the way home from school? I'm on my way back Bought him some birthday cake. Do you know that Xiaoyue is allergic to trust? Xiaoyue is fine. Mommy will take you to the hospital. But if you are allergic, take these medicines and you will be fine. I also want allergies Mother I'm fine It's okay. It's okay. You just scared my mother to death Mr. Lu, this allergy is hereditary. Xiaoyue is allergic to almonds You are also allergic This is too coincidental. It's a bit of a coincidence indeed Excuse me No one outside our company is allowed to enter. I don't even know who it is I am Lu Ye's wife Hurry up and let me in Please go inside, Mrs. President. My mother is Jiang Han It's really Jiang Han How come he is here? You know who he is He is Miss Jiang The president's bodyguard Jiang Han unexpectedly became Lu Yan's bodyguard Will Lu Yan find out? She was that woman back then. No, I'll go back first. Why is Jiang Meng called Jiang Meng? Why Jiang Meng I asked you to run. Why did you run? I didn't hear it just now What are you doing here? I came here to tell you that I'm married. What? You got married again? What's that person's name? How is your character? Why are you telling me now? He's very nice to me. And very rich If I have a chance, I will introduce you to Jiang, don't blame me for being too talkative. You've suffered at the hands of men before. You must be careful this time. Don't be fooled again And hey Sister, I have something else to do. Let's chat some other day Jiang Meng Mom, you hurt me. Zixuan, are you okay? Mom, why do we have to hide from Auntie? Because he wants to steal your father And they're stealing our money. Bad Aunt Bad Aunt I can't let him take everything from me. No, everything is mine. I must find a way to get him out. Oh oh oh run faster Run quickly Lu Zixuan, what are you doing? This is my horse What happened to me riding a horse? What is your horse? Zhu Yi has been helping you in our family for so many years. You treat the elderly like this? Lu Yan Zixuan is still a child She didn't mean it. Don't be angry. Master, I'm fine. Don't blame the young master. That Zixuan Didn't you make almond candy in the interest class today? Give it to your dad . Apologize to your dad No, Master is allergic to almonds. The doctor said I'm allergic That's hereditary. Is the young master allergic? I like it. Maybe he inherited it from me. Luya, I heard that the company recently hired a female bodyguard Are you okay? Give it to me No Nothing I just think a woman can't protect you. Or we should fire her. Sword Dream I brought you here so that you can educate your children well. I'm not asking you to interfere in my affairs. Do your own thing If this happens again Don't blame me for being ruthless Jianghai I don't believe you've always been this good. Money is just right How is your sister? Is your body aware? Still the same sorry That's your husband. This is my privacy I don't need to report it to you. Indeed, no I am also married But I still want to advise you Don't give all your hard-earned money to men. You have two children to raise. You don't understand I owe him that. He's really married. But why have I never seen him bring his wife and children here? company What's wrong, Xiao Meng? Now I'm going to find you at my mom's place But I'm at work Urgent Okay, I'll come over now. Mr. Lu, Miss Jiang just asked for leave. She said her younger sister wanted to see her for something. Got it To Mr. Lu The paternity test you ordered a few days ago The agency said the results will be out today. Are you doubting this? But make sure the nose Zixuan went to his grandmother's house Let's take him home. Jiang Meng You said you remarried. Looks like you're doing well. But be careful I can't be cheated by marriage anymore. How is my life? It depends on your choice, sister. Well, there is 3 million in this card. As long as you promise me to leave this city Live in a different place This card has money, it's yours Mr. Lu, I will introduce you. I don't need to pick it up myself. How? What do you mean? Sister, I finally found a good man Have a good family I don't want to be affected by the things that happened in the past. I Know what you are talking about I am your sister Because you are my sister You should do more for me Consider this My sister loves me the most, right? Just promise me Shin-chan and Satsuki have been selected We won't leave Take the money back. Not leaving? Then I'll tell You are pregnant before marriage I used to fight in black boxing You beat him and everyone left him paralyzed from the waist down Wheelchair-bound for life This matter has passed Really? If it really happened You also send him money every month This is all because of you I am disabled No, no. I'm calling for your college tuition. The power of life and death, so what? What if I tell him everything about your past? What do you think they will think? What will your children think? They just feel You said that when he bleeds, Who will be happy? Don't bully my mom. Why are you here ? Let me go Let me go Let me go What are you doing? Zhang Yuting, what are you doing here? Something happened to Xiaohui Come to me quickly What did you say She's emotionally unstable now. How do your family members see it? How can I leave her alone? Sorry doctor I will be careful next time Be more careful next time. Xiaohui Is there anything you can tell me? Don't hurt yourself What do you want me to say? You said I was disabled by you. A disabled person From now on, I can only spend my whole life in a wheelchair sorry Is sorry helpful? From today on, you take good care of us here. Don't suffer But I still have a job You don't want to no I do The bad uncle is risking his life again We have to find a way to do this . Hello, Lee family Do as you say Don't forget 200,000 How about it? Don't worry. mom He will definitely resign That's good I think he will follow me later. What are you doing Ah Yan, why are you here? I'll pick up the kids. What are you guys talking about? Ah, we are discussing Zixuan's studies. Yeah yeah We are considering whether to hire a tutor for Zixuan. Better for the kids I don't want a tutor. Zixuan, you can't lose your temper, okay? You must study hard Only then can you be your father's successor, you know? I don't want to see my uncle He said nonsense that they were just talking about aunt Aunt Why do you have a sister? How come I haven't seen it? My aunt is so annoying you go I do have a sister. But we separated a long time ago. There is no communication Are you hiding something from me? Ah Yan, how could I hide something from you? Zixuan told me What's your aunt's name? I have no idea What can Lu Ye's children understand? I do have a sister. But I haven't contacted you for a long time. If you want to know him Let me introduce you to each other. I am free Sister, find the child first. Hello Mr. Lu I'll take someone to find the young master right now. Mother Will Xiaoyue never be able to go to school again? How come Xiaoyue Why do you think so? It's because Uncle Zheng asked you to resign. As long as you quit There is no money to pay our tuition. Mommy, don't worry. Geniuses can be self-taught It's okay for us to study later My two geniuses Don't worry, baby Mommy will definitely let you read it. Um Hey Zixuan How come you ran out alone? Where's your mom? Hey Zixuan Found it? There's no way to go. Xiaohan Mr. Lu Why are you here? Have you seen a boy boy There is only my Xiaoxin here What do you want with him? Mrs. Lu said I found the young master. I know. He was looking for his son. I wonder why his son is in my neighborhood. Mr. Lu Why are you walking this way? How come this road was built by your family? I can't leave That's not the case. It's a CEO like you who is covered in gold. How come you come to our ordinary community? Do you know anyone in our neighborhood? ah careful Are you okay? fine Assistant Chen went to call an ambulance Mr. Lu, are you sure you want to call an ambulance for this injury? No, no, no It's just a minor injury. When I was boxing You've been hurt worse. Look, are you okay? Follow me It's okay, leave it to me. Hey Mr. Lu I didn't expect that the skill of bandaging the mountain pass is quite good. You'd better not have the chance to appreciate it again I don't know whether to say you are brave or Do you know that if you were hit by a flower pot just now May die I know So I'm protecting you After all, I am your bodyguard. If you weren't my bodyguard You'll come to protect me like this. You don't want to refuse to pay my salary, do you? dad Can I pay you double your salary? Really? Mr. Lu You are really the most handsome man I have ever seen. Generous boss You're like this, and you still want to fight with me Ham You hurt me Follow Zichen Zi Chen's story Mr. Gu has been sent home by Qi You may have heard it wrong. Mr . Lu, your son is also called Zixuan What's wrong Nothing, I'm overthinking. Probably smart. What are these? Why is there a strange smell? This is a gift from Miss Jiang to everyone. It is said to be a gift that can repel mosquitoes and insects He has some conscience . Bring it here. Mr. Lu, this is a gift from Miss Jiang. Besides Don't you like this kind of scented stuff? Who told you I don't like it? Weren't you disgusted just now? Ah, Mr .Lu Miss Jiang, he didn't prepare anything for you. It's like what I want. But he doesn't know who his boss is. Prepare for everyone Just don't give it to me Mr. Lu What? Miss Jiang is here? What are you doing here? What are you holding? Mr. Mu This is the gift I prepared for you. You gave me a shocker. Yes, this electric shock device is very useful. I prepared this just for you. Specially sent Well then The stars inside were made by Xiaoxin and Xiaoyue themselves. The kids loved it Mr. Lu, are you satisfied with these gifts? After all, it's your and your child's intention. Not bad If you give me this I'll give you this I hope you can protect your own safety in the future. What's the meaning Thank you for your care during this period, Mr. Lu. This is my resignation letter. What did you say Jiang Han When are you going to quit your job and take care of my sister? You said atonement That's how you atone. The resignation report has been submitted Just wait for Mr. Lu's approval. Don't worry I will definitely come to take care of your sister You'd better not fail in your duty I tell you What you did to my sister You'll never understand it in your lifetime My sister is in the hospital now. You have to give me money every month now You know what? Just talk. What do you mean? Is that Miss Jiang's husband? I used to see her coming to ask Miss Jiang for money. Miss Jiang really has a hard time Have a husband like this I'm sorry. Mr. Lu, you've been waiting for a long time. Assistant Chen is ready to go. It's been a long wait indeed An employee dares to make the boss wait You quit your job for that kind of man. I guess so. School is over baby Pack your schoolbag Xiaoyue, don't you want your mother to hold you? They say daughters love their fathers Then you can rest assured My daughter, I am still on your side. Yeah, it's my son. What are you dilly-dallying about? If you don' t leave, your salary will be deducted. Coming soon Help me check Jiang Hang's cold palace I want to know why he resigned. I found Mr. Lu. This Zheng Yuting is not Miss Jiang's husband at all Not her husband Yes, Miss Jiang used to fight. The hitting match injured her sister Assistant Chen, please help me contact a place yes I need to prepare my children's tuition after resigning I can only ask my mom for the 100,000 yuan Oh, look at the Mom, your bracelet is so beautiful It's not emerald, is it? How much does it cost? It's not expensive, just a few hundred thousand. So expensive Did your eldest daughter buy it for you? Your old Jiang has been dead for so many years. All the things in your family Your eldest daughter is the one who supports you. How difficult it is What kind of property should I mention? She got pregnant before marriage I lost all my face because of her. This is what my husband bought for me. Hey, isn't my Mengmeng husband a gambler? He has money to buy you an emerald bracelet What a gambler! Don't talk nonsense. My husband is a rich man. Forget it. I'm too lazy to tell you. Too lazy to tell you I have seen 80% of Mengmeng's husband Make money the right way Maybe Okay, forget it. Don't pay attention to him Let's go home and cook. I won't care about you. Since mom has a home now Then he should be able to return my 100,000 yuan. With this money Xiaoyue and Xiaoxin's tuition fees should be settled. Who is it? Mom is me Jiang Hai What are you doing here? Aren't you going to resign? Mom, how did you know? Everyone has found their home . How could I not know? What's your matter? After that, leave quickly I have to go out and play mahjong later. Mom, since Jiang Meng has given you Please return the 100,000 yuan to me. I knew you were coming back to prepare things. That 100,000 yuan is the retirement money you gave me You still want to go back? No door Mom, when did I ever say that the money was for you? That's what I put at home. No one told you this, hurry up. Mom, I know I'm not your biological child. You have been partial to Jiao Meng these years I never say anything But you have to return this 100,000 yuan to me You have children I have children too This is my child's tuition. Jiang Han, how dare you do this to me? If I hadn't taken you in, You would have starved to death outside. You are the one who nurtured me. But if you ask yourself Have you been half as good to me as you were to Jiang Meng these years? I don't even have the key to my house. You won't even prepare a glass of cold water for me Jiang Meng was almost raised by me over the years. I have given you a lot of money over the years. You must return this 100,000 yuan to me Have you ever seen someone as greedy for money as you? Isn't it just 100,000 yuan? My son-in-law has plenty of money. I wish your son-in-law can support you forever. you Hello Mr. Lu, Mr. Lu When will my resignation letter be approved? Now Very good I heard you quit your job to make hotpot for others You can make hot pot for others like this What do I look like? I'm quite strong. I think I'm good I think it's good Sunshine Medical Center The best professional care in the world I have already reserved a bed Prepaid for 10 years As for you Do your job well I won't approve your resignation letter. Mr. Lu, maybe you don't know I work as a caregiver to atone for my sins. Xiao Hua is There are winners and losers in a game You are not strong enough to take responsibility for other people's future That's something they need to bear. Things are not dirty That's it. You go and do your work first You take this I have a bodyguard now. Don't need this Also, have you ever seen anyone giving away electrical appliances? Mom is so nice You don't have to resign. This way we can go to school again Um Mommy, I checked it out. Uncle Lu is also very good You must seize the opportunity Uncle Lu has been acting a bit strange lately. He's not really interested in me. You're overthinking it. Please sit down I'm just too lazy to find another one like you Just a good bodyguard Go now! Deduction of wages for lateness We have to be quiet Don't let mom find out. What are you hiding, Shin-chan? Show it to mom Parent-child activities No You happened to be at work that day. We don't have to go anymore. You are right, right? My dad said not to disturb my mom at work The teacher said there were small cakes to eat I will also hold back Stupid boy Don't worry, Mommy will definitely go. Really But we don't have a father. It's okay. Mom is with you. My mother's school will hold a parent-child activity meeting on Sunday I want to look at jewelry on Sunday. You have to let your dad go. I don't want him to go with me. He's not my dad at all. What nonsense? It's your dad You are lying. My father is not him at all. What are you talking about? nothing Zixuan said he wants you to accompany him to participate in parent-child activities Over the years Zixuan never listened to her father Others at him for being a fatherless child. Zixuan, tell your dad quickly Do you want to accompany you to participate in parent-child activities? I don't want him to go with me. Zixuan, why are you so disobedient? Okay, you keep scolding him. Even the best children will resist. Give me that day I won 't go Lu Yan I know you still have feelings for your child. I have been in the Lu family for so long We haven't had it once. Don't leave tonight. Take your hands off Lu Ye, why won't you touch me? We are husband and wife I'm too lazy to tell you Lu Ye Lu Ye Mr. Lu, have a cup of tea. That By the way, you don't have to work overtime for me this Sunday I take a day off Great! I just wanted to ask for leave for you. Yes Your child is in the same school as our Xiaoxin and Xiaoyue. You will also attend the Parent-Child Bonding Day that day, right? Yes, see you then. Well, then say no. You will definitely be able to meet Mr. Lu's wife. Know what he looks like She must be a very beautiful lady. Hey, Xiaoyue, slow down. What's wrong with you kid? It's precious. Sorry. . dream Sorry I fixed the drink It also spilled on my aunt. It's ok, auntie Did you hit anywhere? Jiang Hai, how do you take care of the child? Today is a family activity I'm bringing Zixuan with me to pick someone up. I'm sorry Jiang Meng, let me buy you a new one. Your husband is back today. Oops This marriage must not be allowed to happen. Forget it, today is my bad luck let's go Why No, we did something wrong today. I'm taking you to buy a new set of clothes now Or you wait for your husband here. No, it's too late. I see there is a clothing store over there. Let's go over there. But this is closer. Oh, they 're all the same. Let's go, let's go. Let's go over there Come on, come on Mr. Lu Someone said they saw Jiang Meng at the clothing store. I walked over and saw Let me go now. Hello We want to see a skirt This one? Mommy, this skirt shows off your figure It's tailor-made for you. Mommy, you must look like a star in this outfit I don't want to see the clothes I want to buy toys Okay, okay. I'll buy you a toy later. So expensive It's compensation to Jiang Meng. Jiang Meng, what do you think of this skirt? Who are you calling? Ahhh Nothing, can you help me try on this dress? We're about the same size anyway. I' ll take a call first. Almost Jiang Meng, are you outside? Please help me zip it up Jiang Meng I just called you several times, didn't you hear me? Please help me zip up my zipper Thank you ah You are great, Xiao Han Mr. Lu, I didn't know it was you. Raid the boss You decide how much to pay Why deduct my salary? It was you who sneaked into your fitting room. I should hit you. I'm a hooligan Forget it, others are Jiangdong What's it got to do with you? Why don't you get out now? Mani, have you finished your painting? There seems to be someone else's voice in my brother Mom was not kidnapped. Mani wants money but has no money No face, no color The kidnappers don 't care. What nonsense is this brat talking about? I'm not a full-time employee at home. Full-time job What are you looking at? There seems to be no sound now. While Xiaoxin and Xiaoyue are away Let's get out quickly Mommy, what are you and Uncle Lu doing in there? Children should not interfere in adult matters. Oops! We're going to be late for the parent-child activity. Xiaoqin Xiaoyue Let's go quickly Xiaoxue, you haven't paid yet. This dress is still too expensive Excuse me I'll change it now No need to change Mr. Lu This dress is too expensive. You are the one beside me It's not you who you represent. It is the image of the company Put it on so people won 't say anything about me The people around Lu Yan don't even have a decent piece of clothing. No, not leaving yet Finally clicked on to play You two are the bastards, right? Who do you say is a wild one? You and your sister were born without a father. If it's not wild, then what is it? Wild Wild species, wild species, wild species Nonsense How dare you hit my baby son? I have never seen such a savage child. Teacher Bai I strongly suggest that these two fighting children Withdrawal Drop out of school What happened to Xiao Xin Xiao Yue? Why do you hit people? You and Zixuan are back home. Drop out of school We can't let this barbaric child Reading with my son Get out, Shin-chan Mom believes you are not a wild child Tell me why you hit me. He called me a bastard. I still scold you and call you shameless Be careful Xiaoyue You are not wrong It's mom's Teacher fault Teacher Bai, did you see it? His son beat someone up. He actually said he didn't make any mistakes Did my son scold you wrongly? You just don't have any shame It's a man fooling around Your child is a bastard. Not a wild species I have a father So where is your dad? He is my father. Sorry, he's not mine. Yes, I am her husband. The child's father You bully my child I will reserve the right to pursue legal action against you. Who are you? A poor man's husband I will be afraid of you Say less This gentleman Tell you My husband is a senior executive of Lu Group You can't afford to offend. Why are you afraid? I was scared, so I quickly knelt down and apologized to my son. Don't kneel, right? Well, you asked for it. husband These two poor bastards Bullying me and Yangyang You can't let them off easily. How dare you bully my wife and children? You fucking know me You should clean them up quickly. Shut up Do you know how much trouble it is? Mr. Lu, I failed to discipline you well. Please forgive me once It's my fault for not disciplining you properly. Mrs. Liu This gentleman is the President of Lu Group. Mr. Lu Mr. Lu, I really didn't mean it. I am not him That's your child. You see, you are a big man and don't remember the mistakes of the little people. You are yes yes Forgive me. I am not me, I am not right Forgive me for not asking about my wife and children. Wife Forget it. You adults are really worrying. Right, brother? I am a big man and I don't remember the mistakes of small people. I forgive you. Get out of here! Thank you, Mr. Lu You're welcome I just want to help the company's employees You don't have to think too much. Mommy and Daddy Lu are a good match This report will be completed and handed over to you by the cat this week. You're just a bodyguard. Mom, I'm done with school. Small Han Have you ever seen an employee bring his child to work? Or send them away immediately. Either you leave the company. Manager, this is a special case. Mr. Lu approved less Use the boss to pressure me Special circumstances What special circumstances But it's you who are not careful Having sex with men outside Give birth to bastards Hu also said How can you talk like that? I just talk like that, what's wrong with that? Manager Lu Mr. Lu, Mr. Lu How come you are here As a company leader Random insults Deduct one month's salary Next time, I will be fired directly Mr. Lu, I am Xiaoyue Xiaoxin, let's go Have you touched enough? I can feel some abdominal muscles. Who wants to touch your abs? Maybe you haven't I don't Look carefully to see if there is any What is this? Why does it look familiar? Could it be that Lu Zi was the man that night? It's impossible How could there be such a coincidence in this world? What a coincidence Ah, what a coincidence that you also have abdominal muscles I also have abdominal muscles Mom Jiang Han My necklace is missing. I suspect you took it. Manager Feng, you must be mistaken. I didn't take your necklace. That's hard to say. I see You and your two children are suspicious. Get out. What are you searching for? Come over again and I'll start. Manager Feng: I didn't take it. Why do you search my child's schoolbag? I just said People like him with low education Low quality Dare to steal things in the office Even a high school graduate can enter the company Who knows how he got in? Manager Feng , you have to search his body carefully. I don't want to work with a thief. Do you have any evidence? Without evidence it is defamation. I slandered you I am a top student who returned from overseas I don't need to slander you like this Someone who didn't even go to college? I'm dying of laughter. Where's Jung Han? I advise you not to make trouble unreasonably. You are just a lowly bodyguard. Did you take it out yourself or did we search for it? I didn't take yours What do you want me to take out? Mommy, can we watch that? This monitoring just passes through the gold Just check the surveillance later. You will know who took your photo. Towards You know that the surveillance camera is broken. I can't catch you stealing anything. What? I broke the surveillance camera a long time ago. Jiang Han, let me see if you have any other ideas this time. Get away Don't bully my mom Shin-chan Shin -chan What's wrong with you? Open your eyes and look at your mother. coach What to do? How do I know what to do? Found it Our Xiaoyue can't move anything. What are you doing? Mr. Lu stole my necklace I'm in his kid's school bag Did you find it? What happened to Xiaoqing? Xiaoxin fainted secretly Send to hospital immediately Hey Mr. Lu The child needs a blood transfusion now But the hospital's blood bank is running out. Who among you has AB blood type? I am I am type AB I can give blood to my child. Okay, come with me. Peter Mr. Lu, Xiaoyue really didn't steal anything I also believe that Xiaoyue did not steal anything Don't worry, I'll check it out. Mom, Xiaoyue, feels so bad Why is it so hot? But the rest of my life Doctor, please take a look at my child. This is blood disease What's the meaning Simply put It is the rejection reaction caused by blood transfusion from a direct relative. You are the child's father Why didn't you say so earlier? Shin-chan Shin-chan Don't abandon your mother Okay, the child is safe now. Thank you thank you doctor What did you mean when you said I'm the father of the child? I'm not Xiaoyue's father. I was wrong. Like this kind of math rejection reaction In addition to immediate family members There is a 1/1,000 chance that this will happen to a stranger. He should really be the father of Xiaoxin and Xiaoyue But he has a family. I was just his one night stand Don't tell him this. It's best for Xiaoxin and Xiaoyue Mommy Mommy How do you feel, Shin-chan? Do you know that my mother's heart almost stopped? Mother I'm fine. I will protect you from now on. Then you must get well soon. Zihan, come out with me I have something to tell you Thank you, brother So many women want to be near me Isn't it just for money? These shameless The woman who only wants to seduce me for a one-night stand in bed It disgusts me Seduce you for a one night stand You're obviously still feeling bad . What do you want to eat? Xiaohan 7 years ago on the evening of June 12th Have you ever been to the Imperial Hotel? Too long I don't remember Think about it carefully I remember I was playing a game that day Really Really, why would I lie to you? If you don't believe me, you can check the game records. Why is Mr. Lu asking this? Oh, it's okay. Just ask So can you let me go? Wait a moment Mr. Lu, is there anything else I can help you with? I will investigate the theft. But the monitoring is broken. It takes some time Got it. Thank you Mr. Lu for your insight. Then I'll wait for your result. Why is he being so mad? What's wrong? Is your stomach upset? Should I eat something? Sister, I'll give you my snacks. Get lost Who let you be a thief? I am not You're still trying to argue that you stole Manager Feng's necklace. How could the thief get in? That woman is Xianghan No shame, no worries Why do you ask your own daughter to steal things? It's not that my mom didn't teach me to steal The results of the investigation have not yet come out How can you just accuse someone? Who wronged you? The necklace was taken out of your child's schoolbag. This is a misunderstanding Xiaoyue is good It is absolutely impossible for a child to steal Still quibbling People like you who have no education and low quality The child is alright. Not working well during working hours What are you arguing about? What happened Someone is targeting you We're just telling the truth. that is It's ok, Mr. Lu We are upright and not afraid of our shadows. Wait until the investigation results come out Some rumors are natural. You're open-minded . Jewelry theft case identified by professional agency There is no Jiang Xiaoyue on the necklace It is certain that she did not touch the necklace. Great! Xiaoyue Who dares to speak nonsense again? It's spreading rumors and destroying reputation. Just pack up all my things. Walking is not for those who only eat dry rice Did you hear clearly? Clear and clear What did you hear clearly? Lu Ye did not fire them Mr. Lu even came to ask me questions. But don't worry I didn't mention you I know I've taken care of the monitoring. You don't have to worry Even if Jiang Han is lucky this time What's this This was sent from the hospital. Miss Jiang, give it to me. I'll take you to the young master's study. No need . I'll send it to him later. But what is there? You are just a temptation in our family I am Lu Ye's wife Do you still want to commit an offense? I did not mean that But the young master hates others touching his files. All right Paternity Test Lu Yan You are back What are you holding in your hand? nothing It's just Zixuan's homework. Lu Yan, you are tired too. I'll take care of you taking a bath No My mother went back to China to see her son these days. You are ready I will come back good Shin-chan is a man You were discharged from the hospital today. Mom rewards you Do you want to eat ice cream? think Well , you can go buy it with your sister. Mom, go get a taxi. Hello Do you bring money? Why does it take so long to find the money to buy a bottle of water? Please wait a moment Remember I put the money in before I went out If you don 't have money, get out now Don't affect my business. Here, I'll buy this grandma some water. child Is this the money you used to buy your sister ice cream? Please give me some water So what should you do ? My sister and grandma are enough. I'm a man, I don't want What a good kid. Have you bought the ice cream yet? Grandpa, this grandma's wallet is lost Let's help him. Girl, you have educated your children really well. Auntie, you didn't bring your wallet. Inconvenient travel I'll take you wherever you go. I'm going to Lu's Group What a coincidence that we are also going to Lu's Group Just on the way Okay haha I work at Lu's Group Are you a customer there? It's not my son who works there. It turns out that your son and I are colleagues. It's such a coincidence. Uh-huh Oh, it's here Let's go together, okay Wait a moment You are not an employee of Lu Corporation. Can't go in This aunt His son is an employee of Lu Corporation So he is an employee's family member. What employees' families? Do you really think that Lu's Group is some kind of cat or dog? Can you just come in casually? The company recently issued a new regulation No unauthorized persons are allowed to enter Yes, old lady. Get out of here now, you are really bullying me When was this regulation made? Just a bodyguard You are the new rule for our human resources department. Any comments? Manager Feng, why are you here again? Jiang Han You steal in the company with your two children every day. This provision It's for shameless employees like you. We didn't steal anything. Mr. Lu has already investigated it clearly. Who knows if you secretly climbed into Mr . Lu's bed? What pillow talk did you give him? God, what nonsense are you talking about? If you don't want people to know Unless you don't do it Girl, please help me Let me in to see my son. I'm human, right? Get them both out now. yes Get out of here now Why hit someone? Grandma, are you okay? fine I pushed him, what happened? Just an old immortal Jiang Han You must cause trouble here today, right? You are the house manager, right? Even though you don't know my identity But I also want to advise you Don't just look at the surface. What are you? Dare to educate me Believe it or not, I will expel your son as well. Who are you going to fire? Mr. Lu, this crazy old woman You insist on breaking into our company And Jiang Han and the other two are causing trouble here Mom, you are here son You are Mr. Lu's sister. Auntie, you are really Mr. Lu's mother That's right, Mrs. Lu How could it be Mrs. Lu? I didn't intend to hide my identity. but You showed me a good show today. You're not going to fire my son. Then you open it Misunderstanding this This is a misunderstanding What's going on In the room You have made a rule that employees' families are not allowed to enter So they kept us here and wouldn't let us in. When did I make this rule? It's him He was the one who stole things from the company with his two children He is the rat shit that spoils the whole barrel. I'm not a thief I didn't steal anything The necklace was found in your child's school bag You didn' t steal it. Who else could it be? Mrs. Lu Don't be fooled by him. He is a thief. I'm not I don't have presumptuous I believe in Jiang Han There is no way he could steal anything. And these two children If they are greedy for money It is impossible to take out your own pocket money to buy things Buy me some water Moreover, no Aunt Thank you Look at me It's not others who ruined the company. It's your manager Wang's son. Fire him immediately. Never hire again good Visitors No, it's not like that. Give me one more time Come Good boy, come in with grandma. Walk Madam, I have brought you what you asked for. I don't have anything else good. This silver bracelet Just consider it is a meeting gift for my two children. No, this is too expensive. If you are asked to take it, take it. Besides, this is for two kids. I also want to thank them for helping me so much Take it Well, thank you grandma . Thank you grandma Oh, what a good kid. Then I'll go get busy. grandfather Hey, bye I really like these two kids. If they were my grandchildren How great would that be? I won't tell you more. Please take me back to see my precious grandson. knew I have prepared all the materials for the old lady. Are you going to cook today? yes This is the first time I meet my grandson and daughter-in-law. I'm going to cook a meal for them myself. By the way, there is a jade bracelet from our Lu family on the table. You put it away I will give it to my daughter-in-law as a gift later. Hahaha yes Aunt Zhou Oh, it's the Madam and the Young Master who are back. I' m going there Back Scare me to death What are you still standing there for? Are you the new servant? Hurry up and take your things in. Miss Jiang, this is not a servant. What's this Miss Jiang, this is the gift I plan to give you. What good things can you , a servant, give? Take it back Miss Jiang, how can you say that? Miss Jiang, at least this is my intention. You really don't want to accept it? I don't want this box I want a game console Okay, okay. Don't want this box Game console As long as you don't make noise I'll get you the game console, okay? Since he doesn't want So I put him away. Why are you still standing there? Why don't you just go get the game console for the young master? I want a game console I want a game console What is my son arguing about? Luya, you are back. Nothing Zixuan just wants to play games The new servant I don't know how to do things Who told you this was a servant? This is my mom What? You see, I blame it all on my Lu Yan. She told me that her mother-in-law was coming to my place . I hired a new maid. Thinking of serving you I made a mistake today It's all my fault, my wife. That Zixuan, come here quickly Call grandma! Miss Jiang, our Lu family has always been kind to servants. I won't be as arrogant as you. Forget about today. I hope you will pay attention in the future Don't embarrass our Lu family. Shen Granny I'll take this box. I'll collect it for him. I don't think this gift is suitable for you. I picked the right one later. Let's go Isn't it just a small gift? Is it necessary to be so stingy? Madam, this jade bracelet passed down from the Lu family Aren't you going to give it to Miss Jiang? This jade bracelet It was passed down from generation to generation in our Lu family to the eldest son and daughter-in-law. She represents the daughter-in-law officially recognized by our Lu family. But you look at him Can I give it to him? Jiang Han in the company is pretty good What a pity We Yan'er don't have that blessing. Put this jade bracelet away. Give him the jade bracelet after some time. yes Hey, it's you talking again They all belong to me and Zixuan. I won't let you take my things away Hello Is it Zheng Yuting? What are you looking at? Go I was half an hour late today Tell me why. oh Xiaoyue was sick last night Nothing to do again Sorry, Mr. Lu Not anymore Xiaoyue, are you okay? What's the point of you saying this? What are you mumbling about? I said this is my family business I won't bother Lu Zuo Feixing anymore. Come out with me later. I have cooperation to discuss Oh well You'll be there when we talk. Just listen nearby. It's also good to learn something Hello Mr. Lu Thank you Mr. Lu Zehua, what happened to you recently? Talking is always weird Lu Yue Mr. Lu, be careful Mr. Lu, please get out of the way. It's okay, Mr. Lu How about it? I'm awesome, right? Should I get a raise? Listen carefully What did you do? I didn't do anything They don't look like good people . What if it's bad for you? I'm protecting your safety. I am Mr. Wang, the person you want to discuss cooperation with today. Mr. Lu Mr. Lu, are you okay? Mr. Lu, even if you have any objections to our proposal You wouldn' t give us such a show of force. Not Mr. Lu Listen to my explanation Me I don't dare to follow you. Ouch It's really a misunderstanding. Don't run away Okay, okay, okay Yao Han You successfully caused the company to lose 100 million 100 million Deducted from your salary Deducted from my salary I'm 20,000 a month That's 240,000 per year. Plus a bonus of 300,000 I have to pay back 300 in total Mr. Lu, wait for me. Mr. Lu, can you please not deduct my salary? I really can't afford one hundred million. It depends on your performance. Rest assured, Mr. Lu I will definitely perform well. Love you Not picking up the kids yet. I'm going to pick up the kids too. Okay Teacher Han Come pick up the kids. Go find mom Are you good today, babies? Is there any need to ask? Both kids are great. Especially Shin-chan. I also won an excellent essay today. Really? Show it to mom. Xiao Xing wrote about his relationship with his father. Unexpectedly Ever since Mr. Lu helped you last time The two children always felt Mr. Lu is their father Why are children ignorant? Zheng Yuting, why are you here? Mother Jiang, is this the father of the child? He is either you or Mr. Bai, right? I heard Jiang Yang mentioned that your child needs your care. Haha, you're welcome. Child's father This is what should be done Hey, isn't that man Miss Jiang's ex-husband? It's normal for this father to come and see his child. You guys stay in the room. Mom has something to say to Uncle Zheng Mommy, Uncle Zheng doesn't look like a good person to me I always asked you for money before. Don't let him fool you again this time. What good people and bad people? That was what mom told them to do. Zheng Yunjing, what do you want to see me about? Could it be that something happened to Xiaohui? What if something happened to Xiaohui? Can you restore her crippled legs to health? Sorry about that boxing match. If I can control the strength Xiaohui won't be too bad I agree with you if you want to hit me or scold me If you really feel sorry for my sister I can give you a chance to redeem yourself now. What is Marry me ah No, this is too sudden. What's so sudden? You've ruined my sister. You can't destroy me too. Over the years, I have been taking care of my sister. Never got married Otherwise, because you can't afford it I knew she had bad intentions. She wants to morally blackmail a man again Jiang Han In fact, I already liked you. and You don't want two children to be without a father forever. Marry me, right? I won't say anything else. At least these two kids won't be called bastards anymore. But how Dislike me I don't dislike I still need to think about marriage. OK, I'll give you the restaurant time. I believe you won't let me down. After all, you owe me these tastes To atone for sin You're willing to do anything Right? You should think about it. Mommy, I don't want him to beat my daddy He is far inferior to Uncle Lu. I'm not worthy of you at all Don't let him fool you again. Xiaoxin, what happened to the wound on your head? I'm fine, I fell by myself Mommy, he lied At school, some people called us bastards. He also beat his brother He's such a fool and he doesn't fight back It's all because of Xiaoxin and Xiaoyou that their mother is wrong If only you had a father No, he already has a family. I can't destroy their family. Amy, I'm fine. You must not trust that guy named Zheng. I just want Uncle Lu to be our dad Well, Xiaoye also wants Uncle Lu to be my father Don't worry Mommy knows Xiaoxin and Xiaoyue's father is Lu Yan But he also has his own family How should I tell him? Assistant Chen, I would like to trouble you to do something for me What can I do to you? Suyan, there is something I must tell you We met in 2401 of Crowne Plaza 6 years ago Be careful, Xiaoyue is your child I'm going on a business trip to the waterfront this weekend. Don't be a eunuch Oh yeah By the way, Mr. Lu This is a thank you letter from an employee. Xiao Qiqi, put that one. Mr. Lu The messenger hopes you can go and see it in person. Mr. Chen, you and Ms. Lu The company has so many employees Does everyone write to me and send me messages? Should I take a look at all of them? Feel sorry Mr. Wang Something is Prime Minister Su How about it Is Mr . Gu opening the letter? I did send the letter. But Mr. Lu hasn't opened it yet. When did he see it? What are you doing? ah Uh no nothing Come with me to place an order on the weekend. But I want to order on weekends You need me Always ready to devote everything to the company Never mind. It's the same if I wait until he finishes reading the letter. Grandma is here Don't mind your words. Go talk to grandma. I don't want to play games I want to play games Lu Zixuan , this is your grandma Don't you know how to respect your elders? Forget it, don't bear him. This child needs to be taught slowly. Don't give me that look. If you hadn't been with your child all these years He wouldn't be raised like this. I'm going on a business trip this weekend. On business trip Then will Jiahao go with you? How do you know Jiang Han's name? I heard that Jiang Han is your company's bodyguard She is a woman You two are on a business trip together. Single man and single woman Not so good now This is business. What's wrong with that? It's not your job to take care of the child. What do you want to say? Luya, I just feel Although you think it's okay to go on a business trip with Jiang Han He might not think so. I heard he's still a single mom. He's going to get married later. Double Pinyin Jia Han He doesn't want to be born with you. This is work It's up to him to go or not Have you finished? After that, go out Why does this notebook look a bit like Jiang Han? Zhang Meng You're sitting here. I'll help pick up the fallen leaves Once you're done, get out now. good Don't let anyone enter Yan'er's study room from now on. yes Hello Jiahang is going on a business trip with Lu Ye Help me keep an eye on him. This way I won't let you take away everything that belongs to me Shin-chan and Satsuki Mom is going on a business trip these two days How about staying at grandma's house for two days? Mommy, we can take care of ourselves. No need to go to grandma's house How can that be possible? I know my grandmother has a bad temper. But I promise As long as you behave Mom will bring you a gift when she comes back, okay? Ms. Jiang Old Lady Mr. Gu Don't embarrass them anymore. Let them live in my house. I also like these two kids. This is good Mommy, we are going to live with Grandma Deer I also want to live in Grandma Lu's house Hey, come on, come on What a good kid. It's settled. Miss Jiang, don't worry. I feel so sorry for these two children. I 'll definitely take good care of them. Well, then please Oh, so good. Be sure to take good care of yourself when you go to grandma's house Don't cause trouble to others Do you know? Mom, when did you make a mistake? I'll leave it to you these two days. You must seize the opportunity to take good care of him. What nonsense are you talking about? Mommy, I will take care of myself. Go quickly. Be careful Xiaoyue Walk What are you looking at? Let's go. Oh ok Young Master, guests will come soon. You better stop playing games. My mother is not at home You're just a servant. Leave me alone But these two little guests That was brought back by the old lady. You're afraid it's not good. Oh, they all said leave me alone Oh grandma Your house is so beautiful. Just like it I'll go in and take a look later. The room that grandma chose for you There is Xiaoyue's favorite giant panda inside Oh really? Auntie , you look like Xiaoyue's grandmother. Although Xiaoyue has never seen her Then Xiaoyue, please call me grandma from now on. Yeah grandma I'll help you Let's go together. Me too. Okay, let's go in together. Walk Lu Zixuan, you saw Zhou Yu fall down Why don't you go and help? Zixuan, why is it you? Xiaoxin, do you know Zixuan? Uh-oh I see You two go to the same school. Are we classmates? Yes. How did Zixuan fall on Monday? No It's not me who pushed it. Grandma, are you okay? It's okay. Thank you. Madam, don't blame the young master. I just fell accidentally. It's okay, kid. I'll have a good talk with Lu Yan when he comes back. You're not young anymore. If you get hurt, it's no small matter. You are really okay It's really okay These are the two little guests. I'll show them the room. Oh well brother, why is Brother Zixuan here? Brother Zixuan said he was at his father's house Could it be that Uncle Lu is his father? Um No, I want Tell Mani ah Mr. Lu, I'll go back to my room first. What room? You are my bodyguard Of course you have to sleep in the same room with me. Otherwise, how can you protect my safety? What do you want to do to me? I tell you Even if you are my boss You can't use hidden rules on me. What's on your mind all day long? This is a routine You sleep outside and I sleep inside. I'm afraid you'll take advantage of me. I take advantage of you Let you go Hello Jiang Han, are you in Binhai? I have something to talk to you about Could you please come out for a moment? I wonder why Zheng Yuting is looking for me. It can't be Xiaohui's side Okay, give me the address. I'll be right there Mr. Lu, I want to go out for a walk now This is always possible, right? You're still asking me to go out and play at my age? Come back soon I'm young, okay? Others say that I am a charming young woman. you Never mind. I won't argue with you. Jiang Han here Zheng Yuting, why are you here? I have something to tell you. Let's go outside Ah, but I am here with my boss on a business trip. It's okay Lu Yan will not look for you tonight What do you mean I have a friend who works in your company. They said Mr. Lu's wife would come to visit. Tonight they want to spend time alone together You're not so blind as to be a light bulb, are you? I see I won't bother him then. Mo Yan also has his own family I really won't have any inappropriate thoughts anymore. You won't believe it when you eat this. Back so soon Did you forget to take something? Why is it you? What are you doing here? I am a wife You are on a business trip I see you are not normal Roadshow is a cake made by Zixuan and I for you. I'll take it out for you. No, I don't like sweets. You don't eat sweets Could it be Lord Lu You just left I miss you a little bit ah Why can't you understand what people are saying? Master Lu, what are you doing? If you see me again, I will call the hotel security. I know Jiang Hang is on a business trip with you. Even if I don't come today Jiang Han won't come either. What do you mean Lu Ye, let me in Come in and I'll tell you Lu Ye What did you do? It's so late and you haven't come back yet You sit down first Lu Yan's phone number She probably wanted to tell you You don't have to go today. You should be more sensible to me. Don't disturb him and his wife. You drink some water first Brother Ye, what do you want to say? I just want to ask you What do you think about our company's last incident? You came all this way just for this. Yeah, I'm anxious. I'm afraid I'll disappoint you. Why? You hurt us so badly. Can't you compensate me? Don't worry I will take care of your sister for the rest of her life. Not Jiang Hai I am real Jiahan Just give it to me ah Jiahan, if you don't listen, don't blame me. Stop him for me. stop Shocked, what do you want to do? Jiang Han, you are the one who will drink the wine if you don't accept my toast I wanted to treat you well. But you forced me to do it. What about me today? I have to keep you here Please spend some time with my brothers. Ha ha ha ha Jiang Han, I'm going to ruin your reputation today. I thought about it this day I haven't offended you. Why are you doing this to me? You don't think I really forgot about my sister. I like you, right? It's you Don't dream You will never be able to repay my family for what you owe them in your lifetime. Why didn't 't I talk to the creditors? You are getting better and better now Then I will let you taste the taste of despair today Give me Tiger shows off its power The parrot is Hello Kitty Hello, the number you dialed is currently unanswered. Why don't you answer the phone? Call later Jiang Hua, nothing will really happen to you. The number you are calling is temporarily Mr. He, if you have anything to say, just tell us. Are you looking for something? Have you seen The woman who came with me today? I saw She went out with a guy. To adjust monitoring I want to know who it is OK Let's go impossible This is impossible They are the Sanda fighters I specifically looked for. You should be powerless. How can we defeat them? I tell you I just don't want to move. Not that I can't And you found Like mother Too weak Mr. Lu, why are you here? What's going on? Mr. Lu yes They used violence I wasn't the one who started it. I'm asking if you're hurt. ah I'm not injured. Miss Jiang, luckily you are okay. You don't even know that Mr. Lu is looking for you. I almost searched the entire Binhai area. I almost thought I wouldn't see the sun tomorrow. If you don't speak, no one will help you save face oh It turns out that Mr. Lu cares about me so much Don't misunderstand I just promised Xiaoqing that I would take good care of you I don't want to break my promise. Oh, that's it. Go to hell Jiang Han Lu Yan, please don't die Even if I'm strangled to death by you I blocked it with my hands. What are you looking at furtively? Who is sneaking around? I'm not afraid of ruining your good deeds Um, that's what See if there are any other people Who else could be in the box besides you? Hey, take off your clothes. No clothes Hey, I'll get you some new clothes. hat Hey , don't move. Do you feel that this room is a bit hot? Uh, it's a bit hot. There is a small cake in Mr. Lu's room. I want to eat something given by others I think you are a CEO. I won't eat this kind of thing. I just had a fight I'm a little hungry. If you want to eat, just say yes Gone What's wrong with you? Because you are so cool Everything should be seated properly Sit up and wake up. You will regret this No way Did I really attack Mr. Lu last night? Mr. Lu Nothing happened to us last night. What do you think? The news doesn't recognize people anymore It's over. I'm actually a married woman. I got dirty Jiang Han Are you so unwilling to have sex with me? Of course you have a wife. Scumbag I'm a scumbag Who insisted on taking off my clothes and kissing me last night? ah I, I, Unintentional mistake Unintentional mistake Now let's have a caring person . I'll be cruel to you Who told you to mess around? I don't want to be a mistress You want us to come find you Wow My sister and children can't watch Why are you here? It was Grandma Lu who brought us here. Mother Were you in love with Uncle Lu just now? Um Let's go, uncle will take you to eat delicious food. What would you like to order? Xiaoyue wants to eat Buffy ice cream I'm not allowed to eat ice cream ice cream Then I eat Xiao Long Bao Uncle Lu, you are just like my brother. I like to add vinegar to porridge Mom said that only relatives in the world are so mean. By the way, Uncle Lu Did you take good care of grandma yesterday? Didn't you take the opportunity to eat tofu? Nothing serious will happen with me around. Don't talk about the little things Xiaoyue Xiaoxin Do you miss your mother? Mommy, I miss you so much I am grateful that Grandma Lu brought us here. Um Miss Xia Xiaoxin said he has something important to tell you So I brought him here It won't affect your work. How come? Please help me take care of the children I should thank you Mommy, come with me. Hahaha What happened to Shin-chan? Ah Mi What I'm going to tell you next You must be mentally prepared. Don't worry, Mommy I have a strong heart Nothing scares me. Actually, I saw Jiang Zixuan at Grandma Lu's house. What But I asked him He also said that Uncle Lu is not his father Jiang Zixuan's new father Are you a relative of Uncle Lu? Prices are high and the business is big Maybe there are many relatives we don't know about. What's wrong Jiang Zixuan has a new father I don't know where my dad is yet. Your father is right in front of you But I can't tell you now Um The business trip is finally over Mommy Mommy Mr. Lu, you have worked hard these past two days. Help me take care of the kids And bought them so many gifts. Both children are very sensible. This is my reward for them. What are you embarrassed about? Say goodbye to grandma Let's go home Grandma, come to our house next time. It's an appointment Okay, I'll listen to Xiaoyue. Goodbye Grandma Deer Goodbye Uncle Deer Ah, bye Come again next time Well, let's go. If Xiaoxuan was half as sensible as these two children That's good. This is obviously a biological one. Why is there such a big gap? It wasn't like this when Yan'er was little. Maybe we've been apart for too long. Need more teaching Do you feel Xiao Xue and Yan Er don't look very similar And Shin-chan When I saw him for the first time He is exactly the same as Yan'er when she was little. Madam, you can't say this casually. I need to get this clear. Our Lu family can't end up like this. Raising a child for someone else Yan Er mom What's up so late? Mom wants to ask you something. How did you confirm the identities of Jiao Meng and her son? Mom, why are you asking? I just think Zixuan doesn't look like you. Don't do stupid things. I did a paternity test. Zixuan is my child This child has a bad temper. We need to pay more attention In this case It's Zixuan's birthday in a few days. Let's take care of it. It's also formal. To recognize the ancestors What a pity In the late Spring and Autumn Period, Zhao Xiangzi admired him very much I learned driving skills from him. Hello Jiang Han, my grandson's birthday is coming up in a few days. I would like to invite you and your two children to come and join us. Do you have time? Is it grandma? Grandma Xiaoyu misses you so much hey-hey Don't worry, Mrs. Lu We have time Be sure to bring some careful fish with you then. Okay, okay, I'll wait then. Lu Zixuan, what are you doing? Who asked you to take my things? Let me go, let me go I can't do anything to you about this nonsense I'm your dad. You're not my dad. I first saw the golden hoop You are a bad guy I hate you the most What did you say Zixuan, are you disobedient again? I made my dad angry again. I told you that dad's schoolbag cannot be put in casually. Why are you running around again? Wu Yan, I'll take him away now. etc. Did he discover something? What else? Zixuan's birthday party is in two days There will be many guests. I hope you teach your children well. Don't embarrass the Lu family for me. I will teach him Mr. Lu drinks tea Mr. Wang from Lu Development Zone seems to be arriving soon I'll go down and take a look. There's no front desk? I want you to go. that is Mr. Lu, I think Assistant Chen has something to ask you. What's up? It is like this Mr. Lu Oh yeah, I want to ask you Did you open the thank you letter last time? Thank you letter Haven't had time to watch yet It's been so many days and he still hasn't read the letter Is it a thank you letter from an employee? He is a big president who disdains to look at Assistant Chen You are so careless about this thank you letter How can I believe what you wrote? No, not Mr. Lu. What kind of tea is this? Sour and bitter I'll go make a cup. knew Speak Hesitant Who asked you to hand in this letter? Miss Jiao asked me to give it to you. John ah You guessed it was the patient. Mommy, you are making a fuss Xiaoyue and I once lived there. Actually, nothing. Why is Jiang Han here? Joey Who is that woman? Invited guests? I don't think I've seen it This guest is on the invitation That's Miss Jiang. The old lady invited the guest Come to think of it, you and Miss Jiang have the same last name. Not coming early, not coming late Just when Zixuan was about to take on the identity of an adult Jiang Han is determined to make things difficult for me Yeah Miss Jiang, I see Xiaoxin and Xiaoyue They never mentioned their father. So many years Have you ever thought about looking for the child's father? In fact, I have found But the father still doesn't know anything. Then tell him quickly. Do you also think I should tell the child who his father is? Of course This is his responsibility as a father. After all these years. How hard it is for you to raise a child alone OK, I know. I'm going to tell him thank you right now Lu Ye Are you kidding me? Why do we want a divorce? Because I fell in love with someone Only when you are single again can you pursue her. Jiang Meng, you have no feelings for me either. This compensation is enough for you to live a worry-free life for the rest of your life. As for Zixuan, I will also try my best to compensate and take care of her. After all, she is my child. Are you right? What are you talking about? Zixuan must be your child Haven't you seen the paternity test? How do you know about miracles? Lu Yan's study should be over there. Now that I have made up my mind Tell him as soon as possible. I guess you must have done a paternity test. After all, it is such a big deal to recognize one's ancestors. This matter is settled. I hope you sign the divorce agreement as soon as possible. I don't want to take too long Luya, I really like you. As long as I can be with you I'm willing to die Jiang Mengruyanyuan Come to them You two bastards You are not allowed to attend my feast. Get out of here, my brother-in-law said I'm not a bastard My mother said that those who haven't seen it are all bastards I' ve never met your father. He said he was not a wild species. Who said I don't have a father? So where is your dad? Stand up and let me see I hahahaha You are not only a wild Still a liar No dad lies. Lies. elder brother That's my dad. Hehehe What do you have? This is the new dad my mom found for me. It's not you. No, he is the father I found for myself. I'm sorry, Mr . Lu. Two kids joking I'll take them away. Don't cause trouble for Uncle Lu Do you know wait wait What's going on? Is this woman Mrs. Lu? It's impossible that I have met Mrs. Lu She's not like this at all. So many people are watching. sorry I didn't teach my kids well. He shouldn't have said Little Bear and Little Round. Bear apologizes sorry Jiang Hua Can you give me some time? I have something very important to tell you. What a coincidence I also have something important to tell you. What is it? What are you guys talking about? The birthday party is about to begin My sister is in trouble. Mom, she's sick. I can't leave now Can you help me check on her? How could it be so sudden? The doctor said it was a cerebral hemorrhage or stroke. Then I'll go over now I'll take Xiaoxin and Xiaoyu over there right now Then you also saw After all, I married into a wealthy family Today is Zixuan's birthday again I can' t leave for a while Mom, I'll leave it to you. What are you saying? I have taught him for more than ten years. Don't worry, mom. Be careful with your footprints Walked Ms. Jiang Old lady, um This is Na Xiaoxin Xiaoyue's hair and the paternity test done by the young master It's them. It's them. I just knew it Little Star and Little Moon He is my grandchild. Where is Jiang Han? Call him to me now. I'll ask him myself. Miss Jiang Han just left with Xiaoqin and Xiaoyu It seems like there's something urgent. I want to find her back to me quickly. Mom, wake up. Ha ha I'll see how you run this time. I still want to run away, sister Run XiaoqianXiaoqian Xiaoqian, are you okay? Mommy, I'm fine. woke up Chen Yuting, what are you doing? Look at people Want your life Mother Please save me and Xiaoxin Jiang Han, don't blame your mother Who asked you to block Xiao Meng's way back? Blame it on yourself. But I am your daughter. Mom, do it. Don't be afraid, Shin-chan Mom protects you Where is the autumn cold? Ayan The banquet is about to begin The party is over I hope you don't forget our agreement. good Dear Guests, The banquet officially begins First, welcome our protagonist today Ms. Jiang Meng and Zixuan came on stage Thank you for attending My son That is, the heir of the Lu Group's Luye Lu Zixuan's 6th birthday I'm glad that Zixuan can return to her roots. Back to Lu's Thank you, Mr. Lu Thank you, Grandma Lu. But just now Lu Yan found me Tell me to wait until the party is over He's going to divorce me. Ah, what happened? I don't know This is too exciting. I am a woman I wandered outside with Zixuan for 7 years. No one to rely on Suffered humiliation Finally returned to the Lu family I really didn't 't expect it to end like this Why It's really pitiful. Mr. Lu is so cruel. Actually I don't blame Lu Ye He told me he was in love with another woman. I know I came from a poor family. I don 't deserve him. But I do it for the sake of the children. I really hope you can change your mind Lu Yan is too fickle My wife and children have just been found. Just outside and messing around Yes, if he really was with that poor woman If you divorce I won't be with him anymore. I don't care if you have other women. But I beg you I beg you Please don't kick me out. I beg you, ah ah Auntie, do you really want us to get divorced? What He is lying Dad, Dad How are you okay? Let you down It was Xiaoyue who found the old lady. What is going on? Lu Yan Xiaoxin and Xiaoyue are your biological children. Ah Yan, don't listen to his nonsense. Zixuan is your child His children are nothing but two bastards. I won't let you insult my child again. Jiang Hai, no matter how much you make trouble, it's useless Zixuan is Lu Ye's child You can't take it away, right? His name is Jiang Zixuan It's not our Lu family. mom What did you say? Zixuan is Lu Yan's child Isn't there a paternity test? Your paternity test This is the truth This is the paternity test of Xiaoxing and Xiaoyue. They are truly my children. so relatives by marriage No, he is not Oh, the jade pendant. Oh, this jade pendant can't be faked. This is what you left for me Bring people up Mom, tell them. This jade pendant is mine, right? The jade pendant belongs to Jiang Han. You secretly took it away a few days ago mom What are you talking about? Don't talk nonsense Xiao Meng's mother really can't help you this time Jiang Meng, do you have anything else to say now? Auntie I really love you There is no way I beg you Please don't mess with you Dare to deceive our Lu family Capture him and rob him Let me go I am my wife, he understands All mine All mine Ha ha ha ha Jiao Er You already knew it, didn't you? Why didn't you tell me earlier? I have already written to you, boss. It's you who see sorry Jiang Han After this period of time I found that I already like you You are also the only wife in my heart Are you willing to marry Mommy, please promise him Promise him. Mommy, if you miss this opportunity, you will miss it forever. Promise him now. I do Ha ha ha ha Come on, Zixuan! Come on, brother Zixuan! Don't worry, just look at me. Wife I'm back Honey, I have a surprise for you. What Come in Sister Jiang Han Xiaohui Hello, Xiaohui. Yes, it was my brother-in- law Lu who helped me find the foreign experts. Helped me heal Honey, you have no regrets now, right? Thank you, wife