It is quiet on death row. Everyone knows that in will no longer be alive. The echoing of a guard's They stop in front of the unlucky prisoner's cocktail is shot into his body. There is a 60 minutes before execution: The prisoner takes a deep breath and looks out their backs to him. They have been placed there to before his final sentence can be carried out. with both hands, and closes his eyes. He will 59 minutes before execution: The prisoner walks back to his cot and which is folded on his bed. After taking new uniform to put on before the execution. but it is clean. The prisoner changes his outfit. few hours ago, he was eating his last meal. It There is a budget for how much can be spent on 58 minutes before execution: He sits on his bed. Although he is Less than an hour from now, he will be dead. on the other side. He has done some terrible he has been repenting for those sins. He wonders waits for him in the afterlife. Either way, All he can do is pray that there is a way to 55 minutes before execution: The prisoner stands up again and goes back over guards. "Thank you for treating me like a human says to them. The guards do not respond. They They are not friends, and the guards do not pity 50 minutes before execution: A door creeks open at the end of the they are the warden and the chaplain. Both the warden and the chaplain enter the and the prisoner along with his two 45 minutes before execution: After prayers are said, the three men get down about to happen so that the prisoner can prepare where he will be allowed to make a last statement. but now he is going over it in his head to 40 minutes before execution: The warden leaves to oversee the The chaplain stays to recite prayers and "What do you think it will be like after I die?" "God works in mysterious ways," he responds. but if you put your faith in God, all will this for a moment. His life is no longer in his 30 minutes before execution: As the chaplain and prisoner talk, the execution The executioner takes out a series of vials They check the needles and tubes to make sure The heart monitor gets turned on to make sure it will go smoothly, they leave the room to inform executioner goes back to his office to prepare 20 minutes before execution: The warden returns to the cell where the chaplain he tells them. The chaplain puts his hand on He leaves the cell. The guards step to the deep breath and rises from his chair. They place and down the hall. They stop at a series of doors the doors automatically swing shut and lock 15 minutes before execution: The curtain is drawn back from the window chamber. A door at the far side of the room opens; a lawyer, and a state witness, enters the room. the viewing window. The mother of the man being her hand. She does not approve of what her son She will see this through even though 10 minutes before execution: The buzzer on the door leading into the swings open. The prisoner is led into the room is brought to the window. He raises his the last time. He nods to his lawyer and then from memory. It is mostly composed of words He accepts his fate but wants the people present it all over again, he would never have committed 7 minutes before execution: The prisoner is brought over to the metal The guards remove his handcuffs. The They are pulled tight so his arms and guards check the restraints one final 5 minutes before execution: The executioner sterilizes the needles These procedures seem unnecessary since preventing done anyways. They insert an IV into each of main delivery method for the drugs that will kill wrong. After the IVs are secured, the chaplain prisoner on the table and grabs his hand briefly. he whispers. The chaplain lets go and moves to the system otherwise he would have been required to 3 minutes before execution: The executioner moves to the side of the The people in the viewing room look on. and the drugs are pushed into his veins. This or pentobarbital. Both of these drugs are prisoner unconscious in less than 30 seconds. He drifts in and out of consciousness. is in a dreamlike state. It is then the 2 minutes before execution: The executioner inserts another needle into bromide enters the unconscious prisoner's system, paralysis of the entire body. This includes the Pancuronium bromide is administered, the But there is one more drug added to the cocktail 90 seconds before execution: The executioner inserts the final is injected into the prisoner's body. This causes the heart to beat irregularly 1 second before execution: The lethal cocktail circulating through the what it's intended to do. His heart has stopped and his brain is shutting down. The EKG hooked droning a single long beep. The prisoner is dead. body. They confirm that the prisoner has passed After the execution: The chaplain bows his head and says a final up and are ushered out of the room by the over the deceased prisoner. The execution has been In the coming days, his body will be Now watch "What Happens When Or check out "Innocent on Death Row, Here's