Can you imagine? Coming back to the roundtable this, you follow the sound to the source the sound of the two fingers This was brought to my attention below that video as well, how many different ways It could have been used If she had new dialog, it could represent them clapping Or it could just be an animation some actual motion This is one of those pieces of cut content just in the sense these animations weren't What do you think? But just because something is unused now doesn't mean Which brings us the one in limb grave, So long ago used in a future update as PvP arenas. And that fact now seems all for new parameters For four new text and they align with unused texts You win draw and you lose. Once added, Presumably these costumes souls games that had dueling formats And the placement of these arenas between should give players access no matter where they are or what level But in this video I'd like to mainly talk lore secrets in the game. So this is the first one have already been written It was here that gladiatorial combat a sort of ritual combat We learned this from the ritual to state that this practice had died out Therefore, this combat would during the age of the odd tree This is confirmed pretty much which themselves resemble the sword Godfrey is a character that believed that the right to rule And fittingly, strength There are two gladiatorial enemies just how harrowing this combat was. There's the pumpkin heads. Who are these mad soldiers? They are broken gladiators And apparently by having these dark, spacious helmets Then there are the Duelists often found Underneath their cloaks are bronze snakes, which the audience delighted This is because the snake is and that helps to explain why when Rickard would go on to give himself The snake already had a reputation, I speculate that these duelists in the sense that they were They were driven from the Coliseum. As the description states, combat probably would have been completed and the Crucible Knights of the Old Tree Since this was ritual combat, to be victorious Speaking of making an example of people, we speculated on the crucified folk in limb grave. Many of these folk are burned yet But something a lot of these people which is made, of course branches that is worn And it only just occurred to me the ground might have been a way of Again, this is just speculation, another layer of punishment Pretty crazy, though, unable to die, Currently, living grave So it's possible that he's responsible Next in line as the ruler of Limp who has some choice words about Godric, First, he hid himself then hid from Rodan in that castle. Then he insulted Marlena. Lost her in battle only to lick boots as she knows. Shame. The big girl's blouse. So you might be wondering, Well, the answer might actually lie The mimics veil. A golden veil of intricate design with Rick's flight from the capital. When Godric was hounded from laying down this was one of a multitude of treasures Of course, with your environment Thus, it's is also known as America's mischief. Because, of course, America's also RATTIGAN to know for tricking others and causing mischief But what if it goes further than that? In the last main lore video we talked at length about the NOx that can mimic any living thing. In that video, I shed some evidence from these cities. To put it briefly, If you don't mind some of the names. And looking back now, America's like the kind of thing First, its shade of gold actually matches Secondly, it's a veil. And the NOx commonly have veiled eyes. And lastly, of course, sort of mimicry with their silver tears. And speaking of things that the NOx are This is the black moon of NOx stellar. And it's a talisman that represents a moon above one of their cities. And because we now have all of the game's icons in this stunningly high resolution look so good in high resolution And because we can we can actually see two birds Specifically, these are cuckoo birds. And we know this because that exact upon the crest of Rhea So coat as well. This set worn by the cuckoo Knights of Real Carrier, depicts twinned cuckoos peering into a flourishing So whether the cuckoo nights a part of their crest actually originates Except now stone instead of a black moon. There's actually so much to discuss here, topic further in an upcoming So subscribe for that. You would have thought the Knights but it would have also found them within where they've been turned into puppets And as we discover, after giving Ronnie Pidio was at least partially responsible Stop, please don't hear my puppet. I love you all. I know. How could you forget how much? I have a spreadsheet that contains all of the dialog in Elden And in it I found what I think Unlike other characters in this spreadsheet to mark Pidio and Slovis have no breaks and I don't know the dialog was extracted, that hint at Pidio That is to say, Slovis The most telling sign of this in the same instance that Pidio meaning some of us can't be alive The best test of whether they linked and see if Slovis dies But Padilla is a protected NPC, which I mean, that's pretty telling in Fromsoftware doesn't want you to ruin Sullivan's Or at least they don't want to code Adding immunity to Pidio is much easier. And to cap off this theory as fact. Note that Silva's death pose to the death pose that the puppets have. You can find these puppets and they're all found in that same pose have suddenly slackened So Padilla is an albino prick and it's probably nice for him because these beings and they don't face prejudice As mentioned in a recent video that are born of silver, the older first generation creations. But one thing I failed to mention gen albino oryx might not actually be born Instead, they might be fated This is something suggested by Albus My legs will soon fade and with them my life. My life. This is the immovable fate of all albino oryx It becomes very clear Fading as in that literally turning fading over time might help to support because perhaps she was able to walk to permanently being on horseback So there's a whole rumor in the game that began because of the Silver Apparently imitates of do something This, as the description rumor that Lauretta herself was an albino. But is the rumor really that absurd? Let's talk about some of the evidence Not unlike how And speaking of archery, with the sorcery, stating that the bow Again, not unlike the Alba, And finally, after her service she would go on to search for a haven for albino oryx So while it's definitely still possible just mirroring you can definitely make a good argument might have had a very personal interest a haven for others of her kind. And I've talked a lot about how, want to find peace in their persecuted. But it's worth noting that Alpine oryx If you get really close to the second you might just be able to hear all night long. But this dialog is so hard to hear. So let's extract it and we can finally All stars on the night or feet want to see them all the same punish every living thing I've ever seen. Every time we speak to those who forsake on that day and I think, fuck, you know, we. The most interesting thing to learn here, that these Alpine oryx do indeed to the night sky, and to its fate. In the last Love video, So it's great to have that confirmation. So with all of this characterization by talking about how they might actually So in at least a few forms of media, withheld from artificial lifeforms, because a big sense of agency But at the very end of a tennis questline. That ability to create new life that is given to the Alpine Oryx, net birthing to let in and create life for us. For all the Alpine oryx, this towering sister is called philia, And while we clearly don't know why, that she's special. I gave this character more thought. Thanks to you guys in the comments a lot of you speculated might actually be related to the Giants And this is because lt confirms observing droplet to this large woman So it's not such a stretch to imagine to do something similar with their giants If nothing else, it really is excellent So kudos to you guys for that one. The Alpine oryx converge at the liturgical which is a town of worship who many Melbourne Oryx There is so much cut content for Mikala I'll do a full video on it. But for now, just know this and she's even listed As noted by Zoli, which this voice actress two I never planned to visit this And Marie in Deracinated Mikala has a ton of cut dialog lines Clearly, they changed their plans for him Hopefully they fleshed out and if they do expect that voice Another piece of cut content item in Elden Ring By consuming PHP, you would have been able not unlike This description reads a flower that preys on Miranda Maiden of the flower first of this breed, and according to one The spell is actually constable by Milano. If you summon them during the fight to say the least. For number 14, When we talk to her in-game, and she's cradling Clearly, who abandoned her for the golden order. She even But you want to know whose statue America's not in the entirety of carry Which, considering the grievances had for her. This makes a lot of sense in Renaissance Rattigan although we know But of course, anyone who has died, to her stake of America here. The run back to Renata back to a boss So while you're running back, blame the law for that one. Another little detail I can respect with the statues atop every hero's grave. There's a few of these game, Graves statues are unfailingly pointed and that's because of all the people Those in the hero's graves are assumedly the highest priority So with bodies held before them, that offering these heroes Before I go as a bonus secret, a character from another piece of media But before that, though, that this bonus secret Enjoy your first month audible.com slash vital video 500 to claim your free 30 day So one thing I've always found is which pieces of media I always go out of my way to read that he talks about. But there was one book in particular before the game's release. This was called The Eternal Champion And this is basically a story Eric Hosey, to fight in different wars In the first book, this legendary warrior by the ruling powers, and they use him And I could be wrong, this reminded me the most of Godfrey, who is pulled out of his own age by Marika to vanquish her enemies Of course, you can also listen just like the eternal champion because new members can try audible free which you'll get a credit Again, just head over to audible.com or text quality video to 500 500 where you can enjoy your all access to as well as original entertainment included in the plus catalog. So please go and listen to something great or recommend a great audiobook for others I'll be listening but as always, thank you for watching