Translator: Tijana Mihajlovic Four times in my life, I've been involved In the 50s and 60s, and I think my job I've seen the inside and slept in a lot of choir lofts In the 70s, it was the transformation from the leaders conscription to the all-volunteer In the 80s and 90s, it was what came to be known A group of us working began trying to set up back channels to keep the Soviet Union from blowing each other up. I can remember very clearly and after Christmas breakfast and there was an email from a close friend and it said, &quot;The Soviet And it made me realize which we think of being fixed actually is. And it set me in motion for what is now almost about how social and how individuals like us That's what I want to focus on today, because I think many of you would agree with all kinds of threats that are creating difficulties and stress. You talk about it with your neighbors, you hear it at parties, you talk about it at sports events. How can we create change? Well, I can tell you from doing now - over two decades of research - that change comes in two forms. It's violent, coercive, The interesting thing - we now know from scientific research - doesn't last very long. If you think about it for a moment, the Soviet Union just lasted less than a single person's lifetime. Nazi National Socialism in Germany lasted, either 10 or 20 years. So even things which seem can be altered, and they can be altered I want to share with you that I have done about how that happens. And it comes in two stages. First is the individual, The individual begins you can hardly believe It is the quotidian choice. &quot;Quotidian&quot; means daily, and these choices when we go into the store; we buy a particular kind of toothpaste, Do we really think what is the nature Are we conscious Because buying is a kind of voting. If we are unconscious - they don't even realize So first of all, we need to become aware And second of all, we must commit to always choose the one that is most compassionate None of them may be great choices, but inevitably one choice than the one that - than the others; it is more life-affirming, it is more productive of wellness. Because as we look at these changes and we can see them in climate change, in the fact that we will become that we are a country, Forty five million people are in poverty. We have 17 million children What kind of world This change is going to happen. Is it a dystopian world, or is it a world that is I want to suggest to you and that's what I favor - I don't know about you, but I find most of these I don't want to live there. (Laughter) I want to live in a place and prosperous, and healthy. I want wellness, and I mean by &quot;wellness&quot; So quotidian choices And if you don't think this actually Just to give you one example. About 18 months ago, there was a decision that was arrived at by thousands and thousands, and that was to choose &quot;LGBT&quot; over &quot;gay&quot;. Nobody passed the law. The president didn't go on television. But people just made a decision, It's not just a change in term; it's a change in concept So quotidian choice is how we begin. If you, the people in this room will make the commitment, &quot;I will commit that, first of all, I will become aware of the implications and that out of the choices I will consistently choose that option and life-affirming, I can tell you and those that hear this Once we move I began studying how do groups Why do some social movements Why do they become better? What emerged out of that was eight laws. I didn't invent these laws. They are simply patterns that successful, which are socially compassionate But here they are. When you start a group, or you become involved in something, if you will help nurture these eight laws, your group statistically than it would otherwise be. So here they are. The first one: become aware choose the compassionate as you understand it in the moment, and that the individuals in the group, must share a common intention. If you've ever been part of a group, you know that getting Law number 2: The individuals and the group but they may not have cherished outcomes, that is, you don't know When I was reading the diaries they would say, "I want to end slavery. I don't know how it's going It is a moral evil." Law number 3: The individuals in the group must accept that their goal may not be reached and be OK with this. That's something else I learned They didn't know but they were committed to its happening. Law number 4: The individuals in the group must accept either credit or acknowledgement and be OK with that. You know how hard it is when you don't feel But if the thing that you are serving that is the goal, and you can do it. And you will ultimately reap the benefit. Law number 5: Each person in the group, regardless of the gender, must enjoy fundamental equality even as the various roles in the hierarchy We are all fundamentally equal, and if you hold a higher position that does not make you a superior being. Law number 6: The individuals in the group must forswear I confess, for me, this is the hard one, (Laughter) because when I see somebody I cannot always tell you (Laughter) Law number 7: The individual in the group consistent with their public posture. I do a daily web publication so I read about 80 journals And almost every day, there's somebody who has set as the teacher, as the arbiter That's their public self. And yet, in the back room, all sorts of very unpleasant Law number 8: The individuals in the group, must always act from the beingness We are at a crossroads. We're at a crossroads as a culture, we're at a crossroads as a country, we're at a crossroads as a world. You can look at the scientific research The question that I leave you with to stand up and say, &quot;I will be an agent of change &quot;Wellness, as I understand it I may understand it differently but at this moment, I will serve the creation of wellness, so that my children, and my grandchildren&quot; - I have two grandsons - &quot;will live in a world that has wellness Thank you. (Applause)