Peru, in the heart the kingdom of the Apus, the Inca gods. Forbidden mountains to any human who dared approach. Five centuries later, the legend lives on. There is a bold handful without a second thought. Among them is Juan Carlos, twice a week To drive on this road, You need it in your trousers, Be a real man, and you're dead. Especially into the narrow In these sacred mountains, Tunnel or no tunnel from morning to night, Each tunnel exit is a lottery. There could be an oncoming vehicle The mountainsides You can't drive on this road The other day, a landslide almost When Juan Carlos takes his foot it's not because he's afraid of death. It's because of the price of spare parts. I could go faster, To avoid accidents, Peru's rugged geography To get across the Andes, but winding trails that snake There are a lot of corpses Along the narrow roads, it's not uncommon Now we're done. The bus began to reverse, and into the ravine, In Peru, they rely on shamans We chase away evil spirits from the body. At the foot of the Cordillera the largest river in the world, It's monstrous, treacherous crossed by hundreds of ships. Passengers can remain stranded Trujillo, on the Pacific coast of Peru, nothing much has changed Today, there are surfers, built from reeds Juan Carlos set up The idea came from his father, as he drove his truck. It's an addiction I've seen many accidents, Falls, car wrecks, fires, collisions. Many of my friends Juan Carlos does more than just drive. He also buys and sells goods Today, he's taking an enormous gamble across the mountain roads. They're fragile, They're securely attached If the truck has an accident, It's happened to colleagues The cargo is not insured. Juan Carlos has invested If there's an accident, his business will go under. It's a tough bet. To get to Yungay, means traveling He must never slow down Otherwise, he'll be late I usually arrive at about 7:00 or 8:00 o'clock. If I'm late, my competitors to my customers. Juan Carlos has planned everything He's stealing a five hour march Just two hours later, he's forced to stop. Two cars have collided. What have you done? It was your fault. You could have gone round that way. You could have gone that way. The accident isn't too bad, The tunnel has only one lane, has lost two precious hours. To make them back will take time. Even if he's the macho he claims to be, A few weeks ago, it finally gave up I was on a very steep descent I tried to stop, and in addition, Can you imagine? If I'd been a coward well, I would have jumped from the cabin, However, I kept my composure. I spotted a large rock and it stopped. It's a long night for Juan Carlos. There's no rest, let alone a break. He needs to be doubly careful Luck is against him, and once again, he's forced to stop. A bus has broken down I need to make a loop in the cable, Here we go, and then attach it. That's fine, let me put it on. In the Cordillera, buses are the only way Ancient and often poorly maintained, Passengers have little choice but to wait. They should check The bus was making and then it just stopped. We've had it now. They'd been waiting There's nothing to eat, when we'll be moving again. The road is poorly maintained. There are landslides, A lot of people killed. These passengers are not willing As they wait for the tow truck, onto the side of the road. The road is finally cleared. By now, Juan Carlos is late. His lead has melted away The bumps could damage Yungay is still Juan Carlos is afraid that his clients He does his sales pitch over the phone. Hello? Yes, I'm coming. We can talk when I arrive. It's 7:00 in the morning just a few minutes behind schedule. He checks the condition of his cargo. Did it make it? Yes, everything is good. Sometimes you have problems, Well, of course. I could've lost the cargo back there. Juan Carlos has just enough time before the return journey Yungay, population of any size in this remote valley. As elsewhere in the Andes, a custom forced on them Each tribe was given a different style. It was one way Somewhat bizarrely, Each kind of transport faces its own constraints. The bridges, for example, are rarely Pedro checks his load of cement Pedro is heading 350 kilometers over some His destination is Huancrachuco, the last town Barely 20 kilometers out of Yungay, There are quite a few abandoned roads The government just forgets about us On the horizon, the white Cordillera and Huascaran, at 6700 meters, It'll take 15 or 16 hours but occasionally it can take up to two or three days. To start with, the road is easy. Pedro drives quickly and safely. As the mountains loom ahead, It's the same track messenger's would take Come on! Come on! When it's this narrow, I need to be able Between the ravine and the mountainside, the track is just wide This is where the path starts to climb The warning signs are a reminder and the so called bend of death. I can't drive too fast The truck is heavy if I go too fast, I could tip right over. Tipping over here means ending up Fatal accidents are common. Recently, one experienced The incident happened here On the so-called bend of death. He was trying to make the curve, but he didn't manage it Then he began to reverse. Suddenly, the weight dragged him backwards 40 people were killed. Their relatives have put the crosses A short distance further on, Pedro but he hears an ominous whistling. Yes, I need to patch this up, I have to do it because one wheel You're meant to check these things, instead you're just sitting Is it difficult to change the wheel? Altitude 4000 meters, Any physical effort Maneuvering a 100 kilo tire is hard. It was a stone that made this hole. Instead of 20 minutes, take almost two hours to repair the tire. It's very tiring, However, I like this sort of work. I like traveling along the road, It's good, Pedro is behind schedule, to make it before nightfall. In the Andes, the roads may be tough, all the towns in the Cordillera, That town is Iquitos. In the jungle, in the middle of nowhere, are cut off from the rest of the world. There are no roads. The only way in is by boat and by plane. People have got used They get around on scooters or on bicycles along the river from Yurimaguas, The commercial port at Yurimaguas but the unkempt riverbank is where the boats that supply Iquitos This ship, the Eduardo sixth, In the hold, they're loading Iquitos is a sprawling town In just two hours, Nothing will be left. In addition to food, On the upper deck, passengers, 300 altogether jammed together It's so hot. We still need to wait. There are no cabins. Everyone finds what space they can. This rope can easily come undone. You need a proper knot. Most of the passengers The fare to Iquitos a week's average wage in these parts. Many try and sneak a free ride. There are plenty of fake tickets, On board, being multi-skilled to piloting, Captain Raphael He's been sailing this river for 30 years. He knows its pitfalls. Yet just last year, his boat sank, A year ago, we hit another boat and sank. The water reached the second level here. The cargo was lost in the water. Before casting off, Raphael That's the whistle, we're leaving. Engines on, come on, let's go. Madam, put your bags over there. You can't block the emergency exit. Let me through, hoist the gangways. The ships are berthed and extricating oneself is tricky. Push it a bit, we'll get through. Go on, keep shoving. Keep going, That's good, we're through. It takes at least three days In the dry season, You see that sand, The rest are all sand banks You need to navigate through the middle I swear you need a good eye The pilots take it in turns They need to concentrate 24 hours a day. Eyes peeled on constant watch The currents are always changing have to navigate by guesswork. Late in the afternoon, The curtain of rain reduces visibility and the pilot can no longer spot He needs help to steer away through. Go this way. Keep going this way. More to the left a little more. See, the channel is gone. Turn the wheel this way. This way, it's too late. The boat is no longer in the channel. Stuck between two sandbanks, in the grip of the current, and heading straight for the riverbank. We can't get out. The level is too low, It's too narrow, Forced to go straight. For the time being, It needs to be freed It shouldn't ever really happen, Now we're stuck here and maybe This will mean a long wait. Oh, well, we're delayed now. What can you do when this happens? Well, if the ship gets stuck even more, and put the cargo onto another boat. It's a very slow process. We need to get back Two sailors head out to check the depth All they have to measure with is a pole. Two meters, 40, they found deeper water the boat is finally free. We're at two meters 40. That's it. The water's deep enough. We'll head that way. Two meters 40. Two meters 70 here. Two meters ten, Two meters 40. To be safe, we'll continue at least for another 12 hours The Eduardo the sixth has scraped through. For now at least, there's two more days their destination. Up in the Cordillera, Pedro is now for his truck, forcing him to constantly alter his speed The abuse is wearing out the engine. On the dashboard, there's a warning light. The radiator is overheating That's not right, look, it's heating up. It's over 98. There's a hole in the radiator, Now we'll need to keep The good news, though, there's plenty of water everywhere. It's spring water. It's like cooling fluid. Come on, we need to get on I can't hang around here anymore. Soon there's another problem. It can't climb anymore. The overheating and Pedro can't figure out Luckily for him in the Andes, Hi, how's it going? Listen, my engine's rolling over nicely, It keeps stalling. That's the diesel oil. That's probably dirt and that stops it Okay, thanks very much. If that's all it is, If it's more serious, After the next bend, there's a bridge. It's one way of checking This is risky We could fall through, I'm 19 and a half tons. Five hundred kilos under the limit. Nevertheless, crossing is risky. The key is to get across By about 10:00 at night, In these remote mountains, and the mechanics work day and night. It's the moment of truth This is what there was. The diesel was filthy, Even if there are so many problems, It comes with a job and you accept it. I need to make a living. I think that's better now. A little further up in the village, that's blocking the traffic. Thousands of people are marching All are heading to the same place. The valley of Qoyllur Riti. They've come from all over Peru in Latin America. The celebration of the Virgin Mary the Inca sun god. 100,000 faithfuls have undertaken to pay homage to them both. Among the dancers are the Ucucus who according to legend, The mock fights represents Bizarrely though, They're high-pitched. Tradition has it they disguise However, not all are here to dance. The majority of the pilgrims without flinching Only a few pilgrims are allowed to enter People visit the sanctuary because he can perform miracles. Many people believe get them a good job, Those who can't enter I'm selling houses, cars, land, The fact is, the woman is selling dreams. Rectangular stones symbolize houses, Purchasers believe they might see Here are the fake documents Here's the receipt, sales certificate, You can get a car with these. Fake US dollars, to be precise, $30,000 for $0.30. At that rate, twice the daily income of the Indians. Need a solicitor? This way, this Indian couple The fake solicitor Who is the buyer? Holgey Almeria. We're also buying land. Have you really bought it? Yes, but the papers are a joke. In addition to couples, here to buy entry diplomas. Will you actually study? Oh, yes, to get a place, That's why he's buying his admission, Of course the wishes come true, The last day of the pilgrimage Only the privileged can carry the crosses. After hours of climbing, and that much closer to the heavens. Whether their gods are Christian or Inca, their prayers will be heard. To Pedro, who is delivering cement, He's got another 350 kilometers to go, for two days already To avoid the rainy season, Workers are surfacing To Pedro, what they're doing Why are they putting stones down? They'll need to take them up will shred the tires like razor blades. The Stones might also cause which is what happens next to Pedro. Stone gets in between the two tires. You see, with the pressure, Usually the driver Changing tires If you inflate a tire and this part it could come off and hit you in the face. These metal bars provide protection. A lot of drivers and mechanics by the wheel rims breaking their necks. Pedro has another 60 kilometers to go. The hardest part. What time is it? 2:38. Well, we might make it It's unwise to drive here at night. There are bandits They could block the road Until recently, of the Shining Path Maoist guerrillas. They fought the authorities to impose a communist regime. When their campaign ended, Some have become highwaymen. Recently, they'd held up a trucker It's now midnight and Pedro He gets lost inside the village. In Peru, signposts are rare. The parish should be that way. I don't know which way to go. I think we'll sleep here Pedro took three days an exhausting journey It's day two of the Eduardo The 300 passengers rush On the menu are meat, rice and bananas. There's only one person serving, No, it's not great, but it's all there is, There are so many people that those Eduardo the sixth is the river omnibus. It stops in every remote hamlet, They can make a few pennies Their life is hard, they're a long way Then you know their hills and eat bananas, mainly. Dozens of women such as grilled lava kebabs The small parrot is EUR3. It's against the law to sell those. People buy them and take them to Iquitos. The police might confiscate them and hide them in their baggage. The monkeys, parrots, and parakeets It's a baby, it's very small. The coati is much prized For it's small bone and it's penis. You put several in a bottle and you get achuni. Old men drink it It's better than Viagra. Ancestral remedies not just to invigorate but as cures too. Along the river medicine is rare, so the native Indios who invoke the spirits to ward off evil. As with this small boy The doctor couldn't help him, to make him better. My father healed this way, The shamans get their skills This is ayahuasca, It's been used since time immemorial It's the only ingredient The rest remains a secret, could prove fatal. If you use too much, It's like a short circuit. Many people have died, but we healers know The shamans are more than healers. Thanks to the mystical creeper, This man wants his wife This young The third patient Before the ceremony, a bowl of a magical extraction. The immediate effect Then they fall into a hypnotic state. Ayahuasca is so strong You can communicate with jaguars, These animals can draw out The sickness is like a black smoke The plants acts like a magnet It attracts the woman, That's the power of ayahuasca. May God bless you. The Eduardo the sixth It's been a hard trip. This is where two tributaries and this is where it becomes Now we're on the Amazon, You can see the power, If the boat's overloaded, That's why we need to be careful By the end of the day, Journey's end. Go to K 19. Sorry, careful. Mind the gangway. Every week, a dozen boats like the Eduardo For the town without cars, despite all its dangers, remains the only link