We spend two days in close contact with &quot;Weissbach,&quot; a very popular local restaurant in Nara Prefecture! Shortcake Strawberry Tart Etoile Taketori baumkuchen Nara, Japan Weissbach 6:25 Chef Shirakawa is the owner-chef. Duckwheat cake with caramel and pear cream on dough. Decorated with raspberries and blueberries to finish. Napage for glazing. Caramel poire. Put into showcase. Brightly colored cake with blackcurrant and vanilla cream. Strawberries cut and decorated. Blueberries raspberry Cake is completed with glazing. Le Dijonnet Pistachio-based cake sold only on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. Decorated with napage-coated strawberries. French style shortcake with very pretty colors is completed. Frezier Mr. Shirakawa's father. Good morning. (Staff) Good morning! Best regards! Tart base is put into the oven. Adjust orientation for even baking. Baking finished. When cooled, remove from mold. Make strawberry tart. Spread homemade mixed jam all over. Squeeze custard cream. Arrange strawberries on top. Glaze with berry napage. Apply carefully between the strawberries. Squeeze the whipped cream. Strawberry tart is completed. Roll cake assembled the day before. Fill both ends with whipped cream and cut roll cake. Cut neatly into 3 equal pieces. Repeat the same process. The cut roll cakes are carefully wrapped one by one. Honey is used to create a gentle taste. Bach Roll Fresh cream is squeezed to finish. The base is strawberry cream and coconut cream. Strawberries are placed in the center. Phrase Coco Orange Pink grapefruit Kiwi strawberry pineapple Pineapple, coconut, lime and chocolate cream for the base. Grapes raspberry Blueberry Glazing. Summertime completed. Parfait with strawberries and mascarpone. Strawberry cut in half. Glaze and serve. Blueberry, raspberry Strawberry parfait Quenelles are made with a spoon heated in hot water and decorated. Basque cheesecake Cream puff pastry. Baked. Firm baked dough. Special custard cream is squeezed. Powdered sugar Puff pastry made with plenty of fine butter is completed. Glassage Dissolve in hot water. Glassage. Warmed on the burner, removed from the mold. Pour over the top and coat. Put on tray. Put on tray until hardened. Decorate with chocolate. Arpajon Another cake is decorated with white chocolate. Etoile Glassage on whole-size cakes. Decorate sides with white chocolate. Decorate with raspberries coated with napage or chocolate. Finish of shortcake. Cutting carefully one by one. Cut one after another. Shortcake made a little larger than a typical cake. Light flavored ones are made larger and dark flavored ones are made smaller. Go to the process of decorating strawberries. Strawberry shortcake is completed. Put into showcase. Rare cheese cake batter with fromage blanc. Pour into sponge-lined molds. Fill the mold with sponge. Put red fruit sauce inside. After the base is cooled down, pour the fresh cream. Orange, kiwi, strawberry, grape, raspberry Finally, blueberries. Everest complete. Sprinkle granulated sugar and caramelize surface. 1st time Casonade is used for the second time in order to create a savory flavor. The last one is sprinkled with powdered sugar to make it crispy. Saint-Marc Finishing a reserved whole cake. Decorate another cake with various fruits. Melon, orange, pineapple, pear, apple, grape, kiwi Glazed. Finally, blueberries and raspberries. Finished by decorating each with chervil. Strawberries with fresh cream decoration. Fresh cream decoration fruit. Sales staffs come to work and prepare for opening. 10:00 Regulars arrive at the same time as business begins. For souvenirs when people come, birthday, Christmas cakes. (Staff) Do you buy it for every event? Oh, yes! (Staff) What kind of cake do you recommend? Mont Blanc is delicious! A colorful showcase with various kinds of cakes. Cakes made from fresh local ingredients, evoking the seasons. Founded as a wholesaler of baked goods, Weissbach has a wide variety of baked goods and sells them in earnest. Various types of gifts and assortments are available. Wide range of macaroons, sorbets, jellies, etc. Cafe/eat-in space available. Special original tea! Tea leaves are placed in a pot heated with hot water, and hot water is poured over them. Wait 3 minutes. Pour while straining to prevent tea leaves from getting in. Cake is served with original tea! The first day of the close-up is over. Day 2 of close contact. This day is closely followed by the production of baked goods. Workshop at the back of the store. Dough for galette Spread egg yolk on the surface fully. Make patterns with fork. Put into mold. Pine nut galette dough Chocolate Walnut Galette Dough Same as above, but with egg yolk coating and pattern. Patterns vary according to type. Repeat work proceeds. Later, put it all together and put it in the oven. Cut cookie dough. Earl Grey Cut into bite-size pieces. Lay out cut dough. Lay out dough carefully, leaving space between doughs so that they do not touch each other. Ready for the first baking. Baking finished. Cookie dough with almonds. Cookie dough using &quot;currants&quot;, a higher grade than raisins. Put into oven. Baking finished. CURRENCES Almond Chocolate cookie dough Brush entire surface with egg yolk. Roll on top of sugar, smearing it all over. Cut. Plain cookie dough Pomegranate. Three-person team divides many baked goods into small portions and finishes them silently. Coconut cookies Rolling out pie dough. Using machine, roll out dough evenly and thinly. Cutting dough as needed. Spread sugar all over. It looks like a lot of sugar, but there is no sugar at all in the pie crust. Cut dough to size. Twist dough and lay it out evenly. Baked. Baked pastries are cooled and each one goes to packing. The traditional recipe and production method of German pastry is maintained to make the best use of the original taste of ingredients. Assortment of various kinds of cookies. A handmade cookie tin is completed with various kinds of cookies. Close up of production process of Taketori baumkuchen! Preparing a large quantity of eggs. Prepare ingredients and go to making dough. Work proceeds on two units at the same time. Each mixes eggs several times. Eggs are thrown in. Eggs are thrown in. Add cream. Stop mixer once to add flour. Mix again with mixer, and take out again. Once the marzipan is mixed in, the baumkuchen dough is ready. Preparation of baumkuchen oven. Dough is coated over this core stick and baked. One stirrer's worth of dough is poured into the machine. Turns on machine and ignites. Furnace temperature rises little by little. Installing the core rod. Temperature rises and it is very hot near the machine. Roughly 3-4 hours near the oven, so sweaty. Raise oven temperature to 350degC. Work begins. 1 layer of dough is added and baked in the back of the furnace. While baking in the back furnace, the dough is attached to the core stick in the front. The first dough finishes its rounds and the second layer of dough is attached. Repeat this process, adding more dough. Adjust the number of rotations and the height at which the core bar is immersed in the dough as you work. Last 18 layers. Baked finish. Breeze and cool. There are two sizes, S and M. This is S size. Coated with white chocolate and cut before selling. I make various new things every season, Baked goods are traditional German pastries, baked in small quantities every day, We are proud to present you our freshly baked delicacies, Please come to our store! Japan Ishikawa Established in 1955 Close contact with the store of the third generation brothers who inherited the history from grandfather to father and then to son. Close contact Day 1 More than 10 staff members have already started preparing. Junpei Koshiei, the 3rd generation chef patissier. Brother of the two brothers who succeed Maru Fuji. Finishing the whole cake. Crepe thinly baked fiantine. Decorated with strawberries. Finished after glazing with napage. Raspberry glaze over mousse. Finishing touch for mousse. Another pour over the top. Spray gold leaf. Chocolate mousse finish. I think the morning is the busiest time. On weekends, we have a lot of decorated cakes, The whole place is slammed then. Finishing up the strawberry shortcake. Cutting. Fresh cream squeezed on top. Strawberries decorated. Finish the Mont Blanc. Chestnut paste is filled into machine and pushed out. Finished with powdered sugar. Constantly made because of the large amount of cream used. Finishing tiramisu roll cake. Spread cream mixed with custard and mascarpone cheese. Put coffee jelly on top, then spread cream again. Finish melon roll cake at the same time. Spreading whipped cream. Put melon on top. Use two kinds of melons, red meat and green meat. Squeeze fresh cream. Squeeze custard in between. Spread whipped cream around the edge as well. Cut into pieces. Fiyantine. Melon rolls decorated with red flesh melon. Tiramisu roll cake decorated with coffee jelly. Chocolate plate. Finished by sprinkling cocoa powder. Salted caramel roll cake was also made. Maru Fuji's famous product &quot;Melon Balls&quot; is finished. When melon ball starts, people say, &quot;Summer has started, When the melon ball ends, I often hear customers say to me, &quot;Summer is ending.&quot; I think it's become a traditional product. These are red meat melon balls. Inside the hollowed-out melon are 10 kinds of fruits and jellies. Blue flesh melon with orange-flavored jelly. Red flesh melon filled with raspberry-like flavored jelly. Fresh cream is squeezed on top of jelly. Melon balls, nearing completion, are brought in one after another. Napage used for glazing. I wanted to be a pastry chef, I want to take over when I was a little girl, I want to be a pastry chef in the future, My grandparents were very happy! I've been saying that since that time (my childhood), I knew that was the reason why I was going for it, I had a part-time job at Maru Fuji when I was in high school, And I was working at Maru Fuji when I was in high school, and I had my father's back, I guess, I set my sights on it because I saw my father doing it. Especially at Christmas, My father would say one word, and the cakes would suddenly start to form, The sandwiches started and the nappe was made, And then suddenly there were thousands of them, That's an amazing job, I thought it was cool, It was a kicker for me to go for it. The morning morning meeting began. It will be a 3-day event starting today. 69th anniversary festival. That it's been going on for 69 years, It's really thanks to our customers. Of course, we also have our seniors to thank. but also because of the customers who buy from us, I think it's a day to thank our customers. Have a good conversation with the customer, I want to make sure that the customers know how much I appreciate them. So let's do it cheerfully. Preparation continues after the morning meeting. Finishing touches on sweet potato tarts. Powdered sugar is roasted on a burner. The sweet potato is &quot;Goroshimakintoki&quot; variety from Ishikawa prefecture. Sprinkle powdered sugar for the second time over the roasted top. Sear one more time with a burner. Finish with cheesecake as well. Decorate with whipped cream. A technique called quenelle, in which the cream is scooped with a warmed spoon and shaped. Cocoa powder and mint decorate the cake. Finished with strawberry special. The most popular cake among many Maru Fuji products. Freshly made cakes are carried one after another in the store. Finishing drip cakes. Chocolate is poured over the whipped cream. Decorated with strawberries. 15 minutes before opening. Junpei checks the showcase himself. With his father's cakes from long time ago, I have my own cakes in some places down there, So it's a little bit different in shape, I guess, There's a different feel to it, The age group is also a customer of the owner's generation, We also have some recent customers, I try to make it enjoyable for both. I'll probably change it too much, I think the previous customer might not like it, I'm thinking about that, Not everything is going to be your cake, It's still a product that has sold well so far, I'm going to keep what I've built up so far, I'm hoping to bring out my own color as well. Finishing touches on a blueberry tart. After squeezing custard, spread blueberries. Sprinkle with powdered sugar. Fresh cream. Mint decoration. 10:00 a.m. Shop opens. Many customers were already lined up before the store opened. The morning service is over with the opening, and now the store is busy with preparation. Tasting melon for melon ball. Ripen the melons to use only the fully ripe ones, and let the under-ripe ones ripen. Because the last 3 months (June-August) are almost exclusively melons, Find out all about it, Like size and ripeness, All of those things, after all, I've been able to identify those areas since I was a newcomer. Preparing melon balls with ripe melons. Seeds are taken out. Seeds are removed, contents are hollowed out. If it were normal, December to January.February.March would be very busy, We have high sales in June, July, and August, Maybe it's because of the melon ball. Excess juice is turned into jelly. There is a melon jelly called &quot;This is the Melon Jelly.&quot; The only thing you really throw away is the seeds. And the remaining surrounding skin, The remaining peel is used as the base of a shortcake called melon short, So we start from the skin as much as possible, I try to use up everything from the juice. Some of the fruit to put inside. Hollowed out melon with fruit inside. This many melon balls are sold and gone in one day. Some days they can sell up to 1,000 in a day. Putting in orange flavored jelly. Raspberry-flavored jelly to put in red-meat melon balls. This series of work is repeated many times until evening at this time of the year. The melon ball is always placed in the showcase. This is the melon julep made from leftover melon juice. In the next workshop, the preparation of baked goods has started. Maru Fuji's other main product, &quot;Imohorichoja&quot; is made. Egg yolk. Mix honey and egg yolk. Cream into butter. Sugar is added Add sweet potato paste. 100% Goroshimakintoki produced in Ishikawa prefecture. It becomes sweet potato with hokuhokku and nostalgic sweetness. Add egg yolk and honey. Dough is ready. Dough is transferred to another staff member to continue. Put sweet potato paste. Put pie crust on the bottom of the mold. Put sweet potato paste on top of the pie crust. After squeezing, bake in oven. Baking in the oven makes a dish where you can enjoy both the flaky sweet potato and the crispy pie. Madeleines are made. Large amounts of butter are used to make the madeleines alone, which are made in several batches. Butter is put through a mixer. Making with two mixers at the same time. Add sugar. Add condensed milk While mixer is running, warm eggs while mixing. This process is also done with two machines at the same time. Because I do many revolutions, This is also repeated many times. Eggs in the mixer swell up. Eggs brought in, finished mixing. Mixes a little with the butters that had been in the mixer. Light flour. Sieve. Mix several times. Mix by hand to aerate. Finished dough is put into weighing machine. Weighing machine puts dough into cups evenly. Staff regularly checks the weighing machine to make sure there is no error in grams. When it cools down, the lid is closed a second time. Bake in oven. Baked. The product is put on store shelves under the trade name of Marlene. Chocolaterie by his second son, Ryoya. I had a little peek before the next day's shooting. Bonbon chocolates, the main part of the chocolaterie. You don't eat chocolate every day, do you? I have an image that it is a little bit expensive, 300 yen per grain is why this costs 300 yen, I'm going to make it with carefully selected ingredients, I try to do that. Naturally, there are about 20 kinds of chocolates, And we order from each manufacturer, And materials from Komatsu City, and materials from Ishikawa Prefecture, Bring it to the main, Chocolate to match it, I try to make as much as possible. Marfuzi has a big garden and green pathways. The caretakers are the siblings' parents and previous chef-patissier. They have been showing up every day since they left the store to the brothers. Parents of the brothers. Nobuhide is the second generation chef patissier. We talked to both of them. What Grandma and Grandpa were to them, I mean, I want both my first son and my second son to be cake bakers, I think I wanted them to go down this path. I was thinking about how to keep the two of us from fighting, It's like this restaurant is up and running. Even though I know it's a dream job, when we try to do it ourselves, because there are some difficulties, It may be difficult. For them, too, They're doing the work for me as a job that I like to do, I don't think it's such a good thing, 0rather than whether or not we take over or not, I think it would be good if they could work with vigor and vitality. The second day of the close-up. Chocolaterie is a specialty chocolate store. Chocolatier Ryoya makes chocolate treats here. Chocolatier and the third generation of Maru Fuji. Tempering machine. Regulates temperature to break down cocoa butter in chocolate. Of course, I started as a pastry chef and I made pastries, I thought what if my brother was a cake and I was a cake, of the pastry business originally, I had the opportunity to touch chocolate, Chocolate is amazingly interesting, But it's very difficult, And that's when I started to get interested in it, I was interested in becoming a chocolatier, I started. Finishing up the bonbon chocolates. Strawberries and mountain strawberries. Strawberries that I went into the mountains and picked myself, and blended them into a sauce, Raspberry chocolate. This product, called Komatsu Phrase, is made with strawberries from a farm in Komatsu City. Bitter chocolate is poured over the top. This process of refrigeration is called &quot;crystallizing&quot;. Temperature and humidity are very important for chocolate. We also have 4 or 5 thermometers to measure the chocolate. I know I have some kind of peculiarities, This is going to come out plus 2 degrees higher, or something like that, This comes out 1 or 2 degrees Celsius lower, and so on, I trust this thermometer the most. Make sure the chocolate is properly tempered, And we'll work on it, I'm going to check each one like this, I make sure that the surface is roughly at 20degC. In the mold are apples, caramel and cinnamon flavored chocolate. I'm putting the lid on the first one, This bonbon chocolat has cookie dough at the bottom of the first one, holes or bubbles can easily get in, 1st time temporarily with a lid, 2nd time after this, it's the main finish. You do delicate work. To make one kind of bonbon chocolates, It takes at least 3 to 4 days. Any kind of candy, chocolate, bread, How to create &quot;delicious&quot; by eating without thinking, We, the creators, think about it a lot. I'm happy if that's the only thing that comes across. Don't think about that for your customers, Eat simply, Just let them enjoy it. The spatula on the right was inherited from my father, Nobuhide. Blueberry bonbon chocolates. Surface is roughly 26. Lid closed with milk chocolate. Whatever the times may be, I think if you cut corners, it's the end of the world, I don't think there's such a thing as good food nowadays, in the world, among many other things, What is the value that only MARUFUJI can provide? seriously, Not just candy, It's a space, and so on. The most important thing for us is customer service. It's not only being able to make sweets that makes you great, It's not just about making pastries, it's about making customers feel good about their purchases, I would like to make it a pleasant shopping experience for customers. In a different room they are making gelato. Melon juice is put into gelato machine. Use leftover melon juice for &quot;melon ball. Finished. Making milk gelato. Finished. Milk gelato is made from Noto milk called Noto Sodachi. We often choose ingredients from Noto, hoping also for recovery from the January 1, 2024 earthquake. About 8 to 10 kinds of gelato are lined up, including seasonal ones. Cafe space next to chocolaterie. Gelato and melon ball shaved ice are also available. Chocolates on showcase. This is ginger flavor. 10:00 AM Crystallization of chocolates chilled in the refrigerator is finished. In a room temperature of 18 degrees Celsius, When the temperature of the chocolate is roughly 15degC, The gloss remains even when it is removed. Autumn star pom&quot; with apple, caramel and cinnamon. Does it have a beautiful lid on the back side? It is very important. Keep it cold in the refrigerator. Because it tastes like blueberries, I design it to look like a drop of water on a blueberry. Going back a little bit, 7:28 a.m. Boulangerie next to the chocolaterie. Lots of freshly baked breads are lined up at opening time. Junpei's wife, Chiaki, is in charge of production. Bread for prepared foods is baked. This is round croissant. Breads which finished primary fermentation. Stretched thin. Wrap wiener. Second fermentation. Baked wiener bread. Finished prepared bread. The staff and I decide what kind of bread to make that day. The standard is &quot;what we would like to eat Curry bread. Put cheese on it. Bake in oven one more time. Baking finished. They have sweets only here which are not in the main store. 10:00 AM Making &quot;shaved ice that looks like a melon ball&quot; to be eaten at a cafe. Noto milk gelato made in the morning. Put on melon ball. Ice shaving. Plenty of condensed milk poured over. This is &quot;melon ball with superb vanilla Melon ball topped with rich vanilla soft serve ice cream. Asked about siblings. I'm the older brother, I'm the older brother, and I'm the younger brother, and I'm the younger brother, and I'm the younger brother, I'm not sure if that's the case, He has something that I don't have, I have what he doesn't have. We fight a lot, I have my own wife who comes in between me and my wife, But still, I can rely on my brother more than any other staff member, That's still the case, that it's not one person, it's two people, I also think it's a strength, If we both do it, I think there are a lot of things that we can achieve, I think that's very reassuring for me, I think that's very reassuring for me. Where I can leave it, myself, for example, when I'm concentrating on making something like this, And over there (at the head office), Jun is protecting the store, I think we have the same feelings for each other, even if our personalities are a little different, We are brothers, so we don't have to talk about it, The direction to go, I think we understand each other, Oh, I'm sure you're thinking this now, Pure, If that's what you're thinking, Then I don't know if I should do something like this for you, I think that's a good idea. Your parents when they were working. They took over, you know, Really, We think we're happy. In good health, I hope they enjoy doing it. That's good enough. In my memories of what my father taught me, like in technology, I still cherish some of the things I learned from my father, I wonder what my father would think about that, plus what I've learned, plus what I want to do, plus what I want to do, plus what I want to express, I would like to make chocolates that will make customers happy. (I think that we are going to make chocolates that will make our customers happy, We have two big hit products, Melon Balls in summer and Melon Balls in summer, I also have one kind of cake and one kind of baked goods, I would like to develop some kind of product that Marufuji is known for in the future. The kitchen car &quot;Gontetsu&quot; is well known for its cute and tasty homemade waffles. Very popular with children! Christmas style, cookies are also snowmen. I followed closely for 2 days from preparation! Japan Kanagawa based kitchen car &quot;Gontetsu The first day of close inspection, preparation work. Owner, Mr. Ozaki This is unsalted butter. Simply, butter is still delicious. Making sauce for waffle topping. Flour We will make about 200 servings today. Add flour. Soy milk There is also the reason of ease of preservation, Because children often eat it, The reason we use soy milk, for example, is because of our commitment to using nutritious products. It can be difficult to light the stove in the winter. I have been a kitchen car for 4 years. I am now just 25 years old. In my early 20s when I started the kitchen car, or get a job at the candy store where I was working, I had the option of starting something on my own. I felt that since I was so young, I would do what I could while I was young, I started a kitchen car. More than I wanted to do a kitchen car, I wanted a place where I could serve what I made. Raspberries are made into a paste and boiled down with sugar. Limited edition for Christmas. Basically, all of our cream has no whipped cream in it. At events, we often have two crepe and waffle stores side by side. To differentiate, Made without whipped cream. When this cools a little more, it hardens, It becomes just hard enough to squeeze into the waffle holes. Flavored with gourmandise fraise (strawberry juice concentrate). Put in refrigerator and remove from heat. Put sauce in squeeze bag. With about 10 kinds of cream, If you make all of them, it's quite a lot. It looks like this. (Staff) Do you always clean up afterwards, after business is over? After we're done, we stack everything up and take it home. Making the waffle batter. Flour This is whole wheat flour. This is about half the amount of flour. Tapioca flour Tapioca flour Granulated sugar. When I say all of that, then we'll publish the recipe. (Staff) Tell me the secret part! Powdered bulking powder Baking powder (Staff) What was that? This is a poppy seed. Can you recognize it as the grains on top of bean-jam buns, etc.? (Staff) Those are not sesame seeds, are they? It's not a sesame seed (laughter). This completes the basic powder. This can be changed from whole wheat to rye, depending on the day, I change it to cornmeal or some other flour. The basic is the same, but the flavor or the atmosphere of the dough is changed. The texture, the chewiness, Also, the flavor on the nose varies a lot with rye. Rye is the first choice. (Staff) How do you decide which flour to use? It has to do with inventory, etc., #1, The rest is mood. I'm bored, so I get tired of making the same thing. Egg yolk. These are egg yolks that have recently doubled in selling price, and the stores are taking a hit. These are egg whites that have doubled, if not doubled, to about 1.8 times the price. After adding soy milk, add honey. Rum Stir thoroughly, then mix with flour. I asked about the difficulties in kitchen car business. It's the lack of free time outside of work. When I go home, I have to go straight to work, The real work is done when the business is over! It is not. After the business day is over, I go home and do the dishes and put away the ingredients. After that, I start preparing the food. There are many sites where the delivery is at 9:00 a.m. and the end is at 8:00 p.m. Keep this cool, I take it with me when I do sales. We find a cat living in the neighborhood. Ozaki-san intervenes in a fight. Because cat lovers call cat lovers, When you put cat goods on your kitchen car, cat lovers come to you. They call him &quot;Mr. Horse Mackerel&quot; because he looks like a horse mackerel. The second day of the close visit. Today, we are closely connected with the opening of the store! Waiting for Ozaki-san, with Azi-san's company. Good morning. We ask Azi to move to a safe place in order to move the kitchen car. (Staff) It's a beautiful day, isn't it? Yes, it is. It's relatively cool and people seem to be coming out. (Staff) When you go, do you have something in mind when you go? I don't think about it much. It's more like how I spend my free time. I usually put on a radio or something and listen to music while I go. I just go on the road for an hour or half an hour or something. Arrive at the shopping district where the stall is located. Greetings from the shopping district. First, start preparing the kitchen car. Power is borrowed from the bookstore next door. The electricity inside should now be on. Menu board Opening the flip-up door. Firmly fixed. Tapestry Fixed. This tapestry is full of cat love, calling for cat lovers. The stall opened on this day was in Kanagawa, Japan. Ozaki-san's friend stopped by with a flyer. On December 9, there will be a screening of the film at Tsurumi Public Hall. Please subscribe to our channel! Thank you very much. They have regular film screenings at Tsurumi Public Hall. I'm getting to know more and more people like this, I feel like it's a kitchen car business. Mr. Ozaki loves cats, and his kitchen car is decorated with many cat goods. Banner Most of my clientele are children, On weekdays, it's office guys, And they buy a lot of things in bulk for the women. I have 9 different kinds today, It is quite common to have people buy one of all kinds. There seems to be a demand for weekdays on weekdays and for weekends on weekends. Customers arrive before the store opens. Excuse me! (Customer) I'll be back! Please, I'm sorry. Waffle makers take 30-40 minutes to warm up. Aprons on, ready for opening. The waffle maker is made overseas, and the thing itself is quite solid. Waffle batter prepared yesterday. Smell of Japanese sweets shop nearby? It smells very nice, like soy sauce. We smell it quite a bit when we bake the dough too, Baking the dough itself is an act that attracts customers. Blending the oil. Only two, test bake as it is the first time. With steam, sweet aroma spreads. Shaping. This is the state of completion. Shaped like a beehive After checking the quality of the test baking, they start baking the one to be served. The serving dish is pre-baked and baked once more after receiving the order. Baked twice to serve warm and crispy on the outside. Freshly made waffles are crispy, The dough is adjusted so that it can be served in optimum conditions. Because all the electricity is used for the waffle maker and lights, We can't use the stove and so on. (Staff) Then the winters are harsh? Winter and summer are harsh. A customer arrives 15 minutes before the store opens. Cream of sweet potato Cream of Maple Decorate with flower cookies and chocolate bees. Quickly wrap them individually. Thank you for your patience. Child receiving with a smile. At first I only made four or five kinds. And then we had requests for 'I want sweet potato or sweet potato flavors,' and we made that, too, And we listened to our customers, and before we knew it, we had 10 kinds, We started to offer them on a daily basis, so the amount we make has increased. 11:00 Opening 1 maple butter. Cream of maple Powdered sugar Nuts It is delicious as it is, of course, but it is also delicious when it is heated up in a microwave oven or toaster and fixed. Sorry for the delay. Plain and chocolate, please. Yes, plain and chocolate? Are you sure you want to take it home? Yes, I am. Chocolate cream Thank you for your patience. Burned one after another. Snowman's... Ah! The snowman's, isn't it? I can make a to-go version, but do you want to eat it right away? Thank you for your patience. Happy brother. Cute looking waffles are very popular among children. Sharing with sister. I am glad that your child's 'delicious' sounds the most honest. That's one of the reasons I can't raise the price anymore. Strawberries. First time! I thought I'd make a snack for today. Strawberry cream Cream of chocolate Strawberry flakes Thank you very much. I will eat and go. Yes, thank you. Two 300 yen. It will be ready in less than a minute, so please wait a moment. Sweet Potato Cream Pumpkin Seed The women say, &quot;So cute! and the women say. The best part of the kitchen car business is that you can hear the voices of people passing by outside of the car. People from shopping district come to the store. I was definitely going to buy these Christmas berries after seeing the installations. It's my first time. So I decided to buy it today. Raspberry sauce that I was making closely on day 1. It's Christmas style, and the cookies are snowmen. The Christmas berries are completed. I'll leave it at that. Yay! Thank you, I'm so glad you like it! Isn't she pretty? Delicious. Delicious? New menu items and store openings are available on the restaurant's Instagram. Will we see you next in your city? Toyama, Sakurai City, Nara Prefecture, 10 minutes walk from Yamato-Asakura Station A shop that is loved by the locals for making sweets that are gentle on the body Mr. Higashino, the owner and pastry chef of Maman Western Confectionery Shop, which has been in business for 38 years Preparing the base of the tartPressing the almond creamPutting the pie in the oven Bake the dough together. Smash the puffed pie dough so that it is flat and bake it again. Adjust the direction of the tart so that it bakes evenly. After baking, make the fresh cream . Vanilla oil , liqueur , granulated sugar , mix lightly and send to the stirrer. Preparing the cake. Mr. Higashino and two of his staff members finished all the items at once.The items needed for the store were to be carried upstairs using a lift.The fresh cream was ready, so we put it in a piping bag and began work.Below , we made a mousse using Uji matcha ( Matcha jelly) Arrange candied chestnuts, black beans, grapes and melons. Finally, put gyuhi on top and squeeze out the red bean paste. Sprinkle with sesame seeds and it's done. Finishing off Uji's Ousu Pudding a la Mode. Squeeze fresh cream and put plenty of fruit on top. Grapes. , strawberry, kiwi, melon apple mango blueberry, raspberry Finished pudding a la mode with a cute cup made with napage. Squeeze fresh cream into a heart shape. Top with cut strawberries. Finish with a mixture of condensed milk and napage. Mango pudding. Arrange the fruit on top of the cake.Shave the white chocolate thinly and arrange it around the cake.The finishing touches are done by the staff.Dividing up the roles makes the work more efficient.Chocolate Just as before, shave the white chocolate thinly and serve it on the cake.Raw chocolate cakeCitron Blueberry rare cheesecakeYogurt Tiramisu is getting more and more finished The finished cake is taken upstairs by lift Making custard cream Fixing meringue cookies with custard cream Custard cream sponge dough Mont Blanc cream squeezing machine that soaks the sponge with a mixture of rum and syrup Change the direction of squeezing and squeeze further. Finish with powdered sugar. Assemble the Japanese chestnut Mont Blanc (Japanese chestnuts from Tochigi Prefecture) Assemble the whole cake. Carefully cut the browned part. Place the cut strawberries on top. Top with fresh cream. Sand with a sponge Make a nappe with fresh cream Let cool once Decorate Make a shortcake Top with cut strawberries Spread generously to cover the whole area Top with fresh cream and sandwich with a sponge Make a nappe and cool once Finishing the chiffon cake Once cut, place in the middle. Make a slit. Squeeze the fresh cream. Spread powdered sugar on the cut banana. Caramelize it with a burner. Serve it . Top with 5 types of nuts. Caramel sauce. Decorate with pistachio chocolate. Finished chiffon cake (caramel banana). Finishing the tart. Apple mango custard cream. Remove from the mold. Arrange on a tart to make a glaze. Squeeze fresh cream . Decorate the mango on top. Decorate the mango tart . Squeeze sour cream-based cream. Finish together with the whole size. Arrange the cut fruits individually. Carefully arrange in a well-balanced manner while keeping an eye on the whole dish. Place on a tray. Fruit tart to finish Squeeze the chocolate cream custard Squeeze fresh cream on top Squeeze the chocolate cream to wrap around the cream squeezed in the center Sprinkle chocolate pearls from above Decorate the chocolate Make a swirling chocolate tart Make a strawberry tart Strawberry tarts and mille-feuille are made domestically. Only released in stores when a steady supply of local strawberries is available.Fill the entire area neatly with strawberries.Spread it all over the raspberry jam.Cut the larger pieces.Squeeze the fresh cream.Decorate the strawberries.Strawberry tart.Use the pie dough you baked earlier. Make a strawberry mille-feuille Make a layer of custard and strawberries Make a layer of custard and strawberries Sandwich them with puff pastry and squeeze the custard Arrange the strawberries on top Cut the raspberry jam Make cream puffs with fresh cream Waffles Top with sugar and bake Bake in an even layer Bake in the oven Making incisions to sandwich the rising cream First squeezing the custard Squeezing the fresh cream on top of it Sprinkling powdered sugar Preparing for the store Arranging the cakes that have come up on the lift in the showcase 9:00 Start of business Eat-in space Coffee, tea, herbal tea We also have a wide variety of original macaron baked goods, including a wide variety of them.We also had a special home-roasted coffee! We also covered the preparation work in the afternoon! Preparing the chiffon cake (caramelized banana) Add banana to caramel Add rum and flambe Add fresh cream Mix with batter Add meringue in several batches Pour batter into mold Bake in oven Once baked, turn the other way around. Set aside Special chocolate preparation Mix chocolate and caramel to be the cake filling Mix with fresh cream Pour into the mold Raspberry jelly Remove from the mold Push into the cream Squeeze the cream again Cut the dough for the base Raspberry jam is sandwiched between the base dough to be placed on top of the dough.The preparation process is completed.Put it in the refrigerator to make the sponge.Add edible emulsified oil instead of adding butter.Put the caster sugar through a sieve.Put it on the fire and mix while heating.Furthermore with a stirrer. Mix flour from Nara Prefecture Prepare the mold Pour the batter into the completed mold Bake it in the oven Remove it from the mold Prepare the condensed milk cream cake Put the sponge dough that will be used as the base into the mold Crumble the gelatin and yogurt Strawberry puree Place on the heat. Pour into the bowl containing the gelatin from earlier. Cool once. Once cool, add concentrated strawberry juice, add condensed milk cream for flavor, and mix. Pour the cream into the mold in a marble shape without mixing it completely Spread the cream evenly Place it in the refrigerator and complete the preparation process Preparation of the rare cheesecake Add yogurt to the cream cheese Lemon juice Heat the egg yolks Fresh cream Cookie dough is laid out. Mr. Higashino, who pours the batter into the molds, is the second generation of the cake shop, which was originally started by his parents.The cakes are broadly divided into four seasons, and the cakes are changed regularly.He works hard every morning to make the cakes. I hope you enjoy your purchase! I guess that's what it's like (lol staff) Thank you! Tokyo, Japan Patisserie cafe especially's A close look at the store opened last year by the 27 year old owner-patissier. Owner patissier Sekiya. Morning preparation begins with making custard cream. Vanilla paste. Separate eggs into yolks and whites. Mix egg yolks with granulated sugar. The secret powder that makes the taste so much better. Super violet is used for flour. Warm milk is mixed with flour. Mixing continuously over further heat. It's pretty buzzy, Because it's still undercooked. Butter is added. Chill in refrigerator. Finish mousse. With rich chocolate mousse, with berry sauce, The bottom is chocolate sponge. Coating with napage. I put strawberry juice concentrate, so it tastes like strawberry. Sprayed and decorated with gold leaf. Decorated with edible rose petals. Fortunes are completed. It means good luck, It means good luck to the person who eats it. I'm the kind of person who puts it in just right at first. I'll change places later, just before 10:00. Finish mango shortcake. This is for inside and this is for decorating on top. Fresh cream. Granulated sugar. Put in mixer. In my second or third year in a pastry shop as a new graduate, I wanted to have my own store, It was just around that time that the timing for Corona was right, I had to be at home sometimes, What do you need to open a store? I just had time to think about it, clear vision and plan for myself, I aligned the things that I needed to do to achieve that. I was selling baked goods online, And that was thankfully well received, It was like independence at 26 years old. Cutting. Squeeze fresh cream. Decorate with mango. Napage is applied for glazing. Puff pastry dough semi-thawed in oven. Egg coating. Put almonds on top. Put sugar on top of it. Bake in oven. Roughly 1 hour of baking. Baking finished. Staff goes to work for a short time to help. Custard is filled into choux. Squeezing one by one after the customer purchases. Finishing melon apricots. Blue meat and red meat. Round hollowing out. Put melon jelly on top of apricot jelly. I make it with melon hollowed out juice or something. I put hollowed-out melon on top. Finish by squeezing fresh cream. Many of Sekiya's favorite flowers are displayed in the store. Chilled custard. Diplomat cream mixed with fresh cream. Finish the melon tart. Diplomat cream is squeezed. Enter the confectionery school, I liked the environment so much that I could do what I liked all the time, I thought, "I really like baking, I wanted to do it more, I wanted to learn more and more about confectionery, Even if I'm invited to a drinking party by a senior or something, I had the cheek to not go, I mean, it's more like playing, I like to make sweets, I'd like to do more and more, I was thinking of doing it, I wasn't playing very much. Tart is also aware of flowers. Finishing the tiramisu with green tea. Finished matcha sponge. Top with mascarpone cheese. Add texture with grumble. Decorate with strawberries. Make melon shortcake. Spray syrup. Squeeze whipped cream over sponge. Put melon on top. Squeeze whipped cream on top of melon. Put second layer of sponge cake on top. Decorate with melon. 9:53 Sorting showcase items neatly. Opening hours 10:00 AM Kotobuki rolls are finished. I think it's partly because this place is in a place called Kotobuki-cho, Because Kotobuki is something to celebrate, I also hope that it will be used for congratulations, I named it "Kotobuki Roll". Squeeze custard. Roll it out and refrigerate it for a while. Cut into pieces. Sprinkle with powdered sugar. Customer buys cream puffs, so I fill them with custard. Making financier. Butter. Burnt butter over fire. Egg white. Flour into warmed egg whites. Butter on heat all the time. It's gradually bubbling. The bubbles are changing. Burnt butter is ready. Burnt butter is mixed into dough. Staff has left work, so from here on I serve customers while preparing alone. I'm doing a lot of things like that, I'm going to do it like this. staff) It's hard when you're alone. It's kind of hard to say it's hard, It's a path that I chose. Flowing into a mold. Bake in oven. Swap to eliminate uneven baking. Because it is baked at 180, My army gloves are so hot. Baked. Removed from mold. Fortune stocking. Making mousse. Fresh cream. Strawberry and raspberry puree. Strawberry puree than put in by itself, If you put a little bit of raspberry, It gives a colorful taste. Egg white. Mixer. Syrup made with water and sugar. When it reaches about 117degC, it is removed from the heat. Mix with egg whites to make Italian meringue. Mix into strawberry and raspberry puree. Mix with fresh cream. Squeeze into heart shape. Chocolate rich mousse on the bottom, The top is berry sauce. Sink into the middle of the mousse. Squeeze mousse batter over the top. Chill in refrigerator. Let it rest until tomorrow morning before finishing. A customer comes in and says this is his second time. She was wondering about the green tea tiramisu that was recommended last time, I was also recommended cream puffs, I'm trying to decide whether to eat one or two right now. Prepare ordered cream puffs and green tea tiramisu. (Staff) So it was two after all. We ended up with two. (Staff) How do you like the taste? Delicious. Dried flowers decorated in the store. Fresh flowers given by customers were made into dried flowers. Sekiya-san also wrote on the plate using chocolate pens and other materials. Since the shooting was in June, there was a picture of hydrangea on the plate.