(water rushing) - And... That could be something. (twangy guitar music) Today, I'm on a very amateur hunt for a very unique material. Gold. It's one of humanity's oldest treasures but it keeps reinventing It's been a status symbol, a future material, and a lot more. It came from outer space and ends up locked away in vaults. It lasts forever. I've always thought about gold as this rarest of rare treasures, but I also found out recently that it's apparently not that which completely messes with my whole idea of what gold's about. So welcome to my latest obsession. I'm gonna try to understand and find out whether it's I think I might have something. (water rushing) It is tiny. (subdued water rushing) So if I wanna find some golden myself, I need to understand the A lot of wild stuff happened Cosmic explosions that out into the universe. A massive shower of metal-rich meteors that may have pounded the early Earth. It's all surprisingly controversial. What we know is that there's throughout the Earth's crust and mantle. It collects in areas called veins. Basically, super hot water brings it closer to the surface, and drops it in veins as the water cools. If a vein surfaces via erosion, the gold is weathered and carried downstream by rivers. This is known as placer gold, and it's what we're after. The key to finding placer Gold is about 19 times denser than water, meaning only quickly-flowing So you can expect to find gold like here, along an inside bend, or here, where water In either case, the current eases up, and the gold drops to the river bed. Which river to look in, Gold has been found all over the mountains here in Washington, but with the help of I got a tip. And just pass the bridge, Okay, good enough for me. So let's talk about why humans According to the Gold Council, its biggest single use It accounts for almost half That's about 93,000 metric tons. Then there are the industrial Gold's great for dentists because it can be shaped It's also used as a There's an arthritis There are coronavirus tests that use gold. It really runs the gamut. So what's up with that last 35, 40%? Right now, there's about that's just being used as It's formed into bars or coins and accumulated by governments It's not being used but it holds value, largely because we all Out in the field, it's time to Hey, buddy. - [Alex] Good morning. - Ready to go get some gold? - [Alex] Yes. (water rushing) - Okay. The whole river is kinda So we're on the inside I think we just start Now, ideally, we want to get as close to the bedrock layer as possible. As the gold moves through here, it sifts down through until it hits that bedrock layer. So for us, that either means or it means digging. (subdued mellow guitar music) We filter out the biggest stuff. Okay. (subdued mellow guitar music) So what I'm doing here just to start is getting all of this gunk so that I can start to filter the really light stuff that kind of dissolves in the water. And then I can start to let And the heavier stuff will so that eventually all that's That's gonna be some black sand. It's made of different kinds of irons. And then it's gonna be gold. The point of this last step as possible across the bottom of the pan, so even the tiniest (water rushing) Nope. (disappointed vocalizing) Clean plate club. Back to it. This process is fun, but it and stakes of the modern gold industry. Most gold comes from hard rock mining. That means digging up and while they're still in the earth. It's difficult and dangerous work. And it's too easy to do poorly. The chemicals used, like can leak and pollute groundwater. Mining can scar the Butte, Montana sits next to a former mine that's now a massive toxic lake. The area is one of the in the nation. What's more, the demand for around the world to often unregulated mining. This exposes countless many of them children. Accidents and other dangers abound. Overall, it's an industry for crushing work and very long odds. (water rushing) Late in the afternoon, I'm looking for any little sparkle. Wait, wait, what's that? Our little sparkly guy there, you see it? - [Alex] Oh, now I see it. - That's about the size I don't know. I can't even tell what I'm looking at. It might not be. That is gold mining in a nutshell. After a day of digging and sifting, hundreds of pounds of earth moved, we've got this one tiny Got it. Which gets at the other side It's not rare per se, but it's hugely difficult For every ton of rock processed you can expect about That works out to about So the gold supply is than geology. Mining companies today have a lot of what they call gold resources. It's gold they've got earmarked, because mining it will literally And that's what gold We know where it is and how to get it. It's just costly in (contemplative guitar music) There are ongoing efforts Campaigns like No Dirty Gold fight for better labor standards, and oversight. International mining as have stronger guidelines And, in theory, there are more exotic ways to feed our gold habit. There are gold deposits and some early efforts to mine them. Or there's outer space. Asteroids in our own solar of precious metals if we can get at them. But, again, gold isn't for more than it costs to get it. For now, that math says to just dig some more holes in the ground. After tearing up half a riverbank, I kept thinking about the Most gold is dug up or just for abstract value. It's basically mined for And it's a metaphor we With the onset of the pandemic, gold shot up in value, like it often does when That's us betting against against our governments, and our leaders and our future. It's a vote for this thing that we all like that never changes. That'll be around long after we're gone. (contemplative violin music) The next morning was We were cold and wet, but the campsite was So we took one last crack at panning. (contemplative violin music) Wait, wait, wait. That is a little piece of gold. That's fricking ridiculous. Yeah. We got some gold. We found gold in a hailstorm. And, sorry, I gotta do it. Eureka. (subdued contemplative violin music)