This is my favorite because it was the very first time that I was playing Cooper Howard. - But us cowpokes, we - In my own mind, in my own imagination, I was seeing it happen... in real time. And I was there with my daughter. And it was terrifying. It, it really affected me emotionally. - These projects are It's a bit of a highwire especially episodically. You gotta do eight hours of this. You have to be smart, - The pilot episode starts really big, and an insane number In our first season, we have There's acres and acres I mean, 25 years of games, so it really was like, how do we cover as much of this big, crazy world as we can? - I'm so proud of what An incredibly talented crew, everyone pulling together and trying to breathe what Los Angeles would look like 200 years after the end of the world. This show presented a number of different amazing opportunities. All the creature work, the the challenges of building of finding locations, figuring out which of these which of these things There's really nothing Nothing can just be shot. All of our incredibly talented HODs and, and crew could just dive right into pulling all of that together, while Graham and Geneva set about with the massive task of figuring out how to create an original story with an original cast of characters that both of the games in the past, and the existing mythos of the games in latter-day Los Angeles. - We always knew that we as the main character. I think we were both drawn to shows that have, sort of, - Hello, there. - main characters who are ironic we felt like a vault dweller but also very civilized and sort of morally righteous with her going to the surface. We were really drawn to because, you know, it's this planned universe that Vault-Tec has created that extends for centuries into the future. You know, it seems very but we were really interested you know, if a corporation controlled aspect of the world that we lived in, what would the real - It was very clear to us that the writers here and really get it, and their ability those different tones, which I think is very hard, They've really, really captured. - There's mountains and but the aesthetic is super top of mind. Most exciting thing for us was watching Todd Howard wander onto the set for the &quot;They got - Well there's a multi-story vault that's been built. I lost my way to this room. Just being able to walk through it, and, it's everything, you know, There's a letter from and I can flip through and how are we raising the amp- It's insanity! - Todd had been approached over and over and over again, more than a decade by people wanting to or a television series and steadily rebuffed - We could see Fallout but it's all about finding When we talked to Jonah, he &quot;Oh, this is,&quot; you know, &quot;This is it.&quot; - Working with the longtime collaborators this extraordinary team, it allows you to really go for it because incredible group of artists. We sort of take the approach where we deploy pretty much every production technique possible. With the massive support of to build beautiful sets by our production - We were based out of New York, it could be anywhere. Right now I'm sitting in Elizabeth Bay, which is in Namibia. This has been a dream that And so finally, this project came along. - This abandoned diamond mine that had been built in the in the Skeleton Coast of Namibia, a very inhospitable place. - When they abandoned the mine, and I think it was in the 30s, they ended up blowing it all up, so this whole area was perfect for trying to recreate a post-apocalyptic city. In order to express what about, we had to really add the details without it overtaking what was here, so it was trying what part of the game do I bring to Elizabeth Bay? - Hold it there. Hold it there. To get back to shooting film is, is a great pleasure and great joy. It's very kind to the digital photography does not yet seem to be capable of doing. Doing hair, makeup, wardrobe in a different format, like 35 millimeter, yeah, there's, different aspects you have There's color temperature, there's film speed, there's, you know, the if you're not familiar that chases you, and you won't know that until you see the dailies. And the dailies might take whereas on digital, it's like instant, Things are different, and if it can be a challenge. - No one had ever shot there before. And because they resumed mining operations, no one will probably 'cause it's just too much of a - Loadin'. Namibian coast. Just with everything blowing around, it's really hectic. It's the sand just getting - Just give yourself a moment. - Wind...wind and sand. The first three days we got there, we had 40 mile an hour winds. It's a true challenge for For me, dialogue is really what I focus on, and capturing in the for that environment. - It came with a lot of challenges make them textural and interesting. We ran out of fabric very early on, a million more of them, so which was no easy feat. You know, just when you think it's like, like then there's There are three different kinds the principals because give in both directions and was more expensive and harder to get. It's from Italy, and we had to dye it and make sure the Bethesda Blue. You know, every sort of step its little caveats. Everything above ground had to look like it had been It wasn't the end of the world. They had learned how to roll with it, and how to dress themselves, about them. It's a huge undertaking. The amount of costumes that we had to make and, that we had to dress was huge. Huge. Bigger than anything I've ever done. - One thing that Jonah we're gonna use the songs to focus on the irony of the situation, especially early on in the vault. You've got the world, that kind of speaks to that. They think they're in this utopia. And then the score, that's gonna, you know, be driving the drama and then that was kind of the handoff between the score and the songs. - Our job is to subconsciously There's something that with the dialogue, with that just enhances that moment, and I think that's very powerful that you can achieve with music. - I'm bringing him home. - A lot of editing is juxtaposition. A good example would be for the first time and how the soundscape changes from when you're indoors to outdoors. Everything is about how the and what's it like to go through that bright light into a world that you've never seen before. - She's never experienced She doesn't know what wind feels There's the, sort of, physiological body has to being on the And then there's the emotional challenge of having your entire worldview change. - She doesn't know what She's never been up there. And she starts noticing some sounds as she's walking and she comes around the corner. It's the first time she's ever seen the ocean. You're always trying to get you know, just the the locations feel different. - Just the atmosphere that that caused isn't It was just, it was tangible. - We really worked, in collaboration, with our stunningly brilliant production designer Howard Cummings, and knew in that while he achieved these we would have some set extensions, a little bit of help to just take things - One of the things and Graham and Geneva is this sense that there has to be something real in the frame. When we shot the environment to a huge lake, and see the scope, and we didn't just We dressed the entire set and said, &quot;Okay, well, everything out there is So, the cameras were able to figure out how far back you to get the scope you needed. We always wanna maintain the best like, we don't wanna lose those. It's always very exciting, to know that you're creating for others to really - We built one of the first and set about trying to figure out exactly what to use it for. We didn't want to use We just wanted to use it for the kinds of sets that would be too big or We did a ton of aerial work, but then we brought that onto We had gone, in a helicopter, to Western Utah, gathered all of the plates and then brought them to life on the volume stage with our fuselage kind of bouncing around, like, there's a sense of reality for for everyone else. Handheld cameras inside a fully from one of our Vertibirds. - To be on a real rig that is controlled by someone else on set with a joystick that's just shaking you and taking you on a the real drone footage It's just an amazing - The fights, the fight choreography, the stunt work, all just a, sort of a dream because you're playing different toys and trying to put them together to try to give things a sense of weight. And using all the things we've to make those things feel as immersive and tactile as they do in the games. Most of what you see with and most of it is our - For us, it started We had the best fabricators and designers in the business on this. They made this suit that is supposed that, in the video game and they made it something that somebody could wear and - We gave months and months and months of rehearsal to completely fluent, and by the time he could do almost anything incredible, given how much it weighed and the, the difficulty of it. - Giving hugs is hard work. - Getting the shots that we got, and I just felt really proud. I felt like I'd done I knew I could go the distance. - Please, sir. Please. - There's an old Mexican eulogy, Feo, Fuerte y Formal. Means he was ugly, Well, Joey, I'll give you two - I think it was 2019, and before Kilter had even that we were talking about, like, &quot;Ah, we would totally watch a Fallout - My name is Walton Goggins, and I'm auditioning for the role of Ghoul. Wait a minute! We just wrapped... I got it? You mean, I got it? Oh my God. - Walton Goggins is one of those actors who you just put on your so versatile and talented, both dramatically and comedically. I don't really know how he does it. - I started this experience as the Ghoul. We started talking about it even began rolling. - We had the enormous to take this incredibly amazing face that can convey humor and sadness, all these different things, and then put 10 pounds of makeup on it and still have that work. - Ghoul could easily fall into something that's zombie, kind of burn victim. There's all these different aesthetics that I think we wanted to try and avoid as much as possible, - And we had a very dear He's one of the best special in the world, and he stepped in to apply it. First time we did it, it took five hours to put the pieces on, and once we were into to about an hour and 45 minutes. - When we were doing he would bring in movies. - I watched copious over the course of this. He had it down so quick, that to take a little bit longer 'cause the movie I was watching was two and a half hours long. - I could tell, once we of the application, settle into the role. - You tell the story with your face. You tell the story with your voice, and both of those things were dramatically changed with this prosthetic and with the mouthpieces that I wear. I was so insecure about it when like after every take, I and he would say, I said, &quot;All of it?&quot; &quot;Everything.&quot; - Walton came to set for the because, you know, is the makeup gonna work, is it all gonna be okay? It was the middle of the summer, And I walk over to give him a hug and welcome him to the set, and he's crying. And I thought, &quot;Well, it was an emotional day. I get it.&quot; You know, the first day, big, big new role, and then I looked at him, I'm He's actually sweating, and because the makeup is so intense. He was just roasting in there. So we, we had some challenges game and so up for it. - I just didn't anticipate all that I would feel being the Ghoul. What a magical, strange