Your doctor told you that you have cervical anti-inflammatories and sent you to physiotherapy. is caused by a pinched nerve in the neck, and now Today I'll explain what is going on with your things that you should avoid, and most importantly, how you can monitor your So, let's talk about cervical radiculopathy today Let me explain what radiculopathy is. are the nerve roots that exit from the spinal nerve roots in the cervical spine. C1, each vertebra there is a disc, like a cushion. Any of these nerve roots could be this one between the 6th and 7th vertebra. hurt HERE in the neck because the nerve The pain will be felt in the areas innervated also feel tingling, pins and needles, numbness C5 nerve root is responsible for the sensation in for innervation of the deltoid muscle that raises So, the person will feel weakness to do those that we can test, it is here in the biceps we may notice that the reflex on the C6 is responsible for the sensations onthe upper The muscles that we test are the biceps that of the wrist. And the reflex is C7 sensation is mainly in the middle is the triceps muscle, so the person or bench dips. C7 also innervates the muscles And there is a reflex specific for C8 is responsible for sensation in the of the forearm. The weakness will be T1 is sensation in the lower side of the arm, weakness will be in the intrinsic muscles of Radiculopathy means that there So, it will affect the sensations, the muscles The two most common causes of radiculopathy caused by osteoarthritis. Disc herniation and osteoarthritis is more common in older adults. of radiculopathy will be away from the neck, There might be a bit of discomfort in the neck to the muscles that will become tense to hold Disc herniation will take approximately 90 not have any symptoms by 90 days from the start the radiculopathy is caused by other conditions, Before I show the exercises I think it is important to explain the and these should be avoided in It is common to see patients holding this They say this position relieves their pain or bringing the pain closer to the neck. Anything we call this peripheralization of the pain. In If you keep the arm hanging like this, on your more irritation. This test is useful for us from the nerve root or the shoulder. impingement syndrome, the pain will be worse in this position it indicates that the source So, we ask the patient if there are positions of arm. Then, it is okay to stay in that position. with the arm like this. When sitting, the support the arm. If the person uses the computer an arm rest. If the person works with they need to take breaks to reduce the tension to maintain these positions that centralize the NSAIDS non-steroidal anti-inflammatory caused by the disc herniation. Check my contra-indications and precautions with naproxen, ibuprofen, diclofenac, and celecoxib. we may need to use steroidal anti-inflammatories, NSAIDS are usually enough to control the pain, to control the pain and to maintain the cervical When the pain is very debilitating, the patient or school, then we may need to prescribe a or gabapentin to allow the person to We don't recommend opioids as there is evidence delays the return to normal activity compared I don't recommend a neck collar either. Initially, because the neck doesn't move and that seems the muscles get weaker, and then, when the person so they put the collar again, and they end If the person doesn't move the joints of the and the neck gets stiff. The muscles long term it is just much harder to do I also don't recommend traction or inversion to show that these are effective in reducing the The natural course over the next 90 days in less than 10% of all cases, there and muscle weakness. In these cases, The doctor probably will order an MRI of I have another video that I explain what your doctor may ask you to see a surgeon Another condition that might require an are signs of spinal cord compression, this is are poor finger coordination, gait or balance Now, I'll talk about the positions and with cervical radiculopathy. Check with your Before I continue, let me remind you that this It is for educational purposes only. If you In case of emergency, go to the nearest Before we start with exercises, check how your take notes of your progress. You can download you can take note of how much your pain is today, no pain and 10 is the worst pain you can imagine. this is neck flexion, this is extension, this is to the left side, this is rotation to the right Now, you are going to mark an x, 2 xx or 3 So, if this movement of bending to the right side You may complete one of these twice a week, let's say, every Tuesday and Saturday. Then you the range of motion and how many So now, I'll start showing you the exercises that You don't need a lot of equipment. You need three feet, 36 inche-long, and a sturdy chair The main exercises for cervical radiculopathy and the shoulder. I have another video you may watch that video. I'll put a link of that But here I will show you five additional have cervical radiculopathy. The first exercise is in a chair. You can put people who have cervical radiculopathy. It the arms like this it's stretching the nerve that you do the exercises in a chair because then so it's not stretching the nerve root. is correcting the posture of the neck can do many times during the day, and I rest on the back here, or you can just stay like what you're going to do is bring your chin inside. Usually we have a posture like this right? your hand. So bring your chin looking ahead. The You're looking ahead. you're not looking down. And you're going to bring your chin inside. one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, and then do it again. So posture. Here shoulders and each time you hold for 10 seconds, okay? So 10 seconds in your head. Nine. Ten. Okay. So do this eight times, many times during the day, and then you're going the amount of times that you can repeat this. but each time you, you just hold for 10 seconds, to bring all the muscles in the back squishing and pinching the nerve root. I love this exercise for a lot of things: for and now for cervical radiculopathy. So, how we do one foot away from the wall. And now, you're your back, the shoulder blades, and the back of why do you do this? Because you're aligning be aligned, and you're going to start moving between those bones in the cervical spine close and also it's good because we need to maintain body is healing the cervical radiculopathy we start touch the wall here, with your elbow and if it causes pain don't do it, but usually does all the way up, and when you are here, remember to OK. And do this eight repetitions, and as you progress this becomes easier. Remember then the pain, you're going to notice that the and you can increase the number of and 20 and you can do again many times during you can find a wall that doesn't have any and just find a bare wall and do your wall angels. So the next exercise is the neck extension. Not one of those chairs that bends backwards, lean your back on the back of your chair, here, shoulders, and you're going to start looking do maximum extension, that we can remember you cervical radiculopathy started, but that's okay do the days and the weeks progress, this will that this doesn't hurt anymore. So, the important this exercise to help in the healing to happen. and go backwards, that's why it's important you're not going to lean backwards with your Sometimes it's hard because when you come back, especially these muscles here, in the front the so there is another way of doing this, which with the towel. Here, we're going to do the same towel. Get a long towel, here nothing special your neck, and you're going to put this this and try to hold with both of your hands, but this arm, it might be hard for you and you might possible because one of your hands is hurting, or the stronger hand, but if you can using both this doing the extension and then the and now when you come back the towel helps you doing with the towel than without the towel. on the lower part of your neck, and what you just let the towel support your neck, and and then come back the towel If you are liking this video so far, don't forget this channel, and turn on the notifications, so So let's talk about the next exercise. Isometric because when we are not using those muscles, and we cannot allow this to happen, because we exercises that don't move too much our neck right? to strengthen the muscle but without moving the So we're going to do this for a lot of sides of extension, and rotation and bending. So, we're first start putting some pressure and resistance and just okay, relax here, in your back and now So here, i'm pressing my head against my so i'm strengthening all of these muscles here, and you can do this for 10 seconds, both hands are hurting you if one side is hurting the painful side then you can just put the other okay, so that's resistance isometric exercise for the lateral bending, you put pressure here so against my head and i'm pressuring i am strengthening this muscles here on the so then you count to 10, on your head don't forget to breathe. it's important okay that's good, and now, we need to do here on the top of your eye and try to rotate is putting pressure here, not allowing my head and again count to 10, don't forget to breathe, one, oh, we forgot the extension and then three, and then four, and the six. So for all six movements of strengthening exercises. three feet foam roller, and this is an but also to open the foraminae. If you can get on a mat but you can also put this on a carpet, don't slip and hurt yourself. what you're and go back, and put this in the middle of your Okay, and here, you can do your chin tuck, and the most important thing now is you're going now are behind my body, and this is the most allowing your neck to relax, so feel all of your and the back of your head, touching the roll, and relax your shoulder, so let it open and stay in this position maybe you can stay in and this is amazing because this will relax and to heal the cervical radiculopathy without These 5 exercises should be part of your routine there are worsening of your symptoms or new myelopathy. Monitor your progression After 90 days, the disc herniation should be it is most likely a myofascial pain syndrome. The and sometimes they need more For example, this muscles, the SCALENES on the points, the patient will feel pain going down a C6 radiculopathy, but it is not. The pattern is and there is no weakness of the muscles innervated the scalene muscles and the pain is reproduced. I suggest you to watch my other video of a SSAR routine for myofascial pain.