This episode was supported by Brilliant.org Hey Crazies. It's time to tackle my favorite paradox The Twins Paradox! Unfortunately, I don't have any twins, even But I do have clones. I'd like to introduce you to Rocket Clone. Hi!! He's super useful for this sort of thing. To infinity and beyond! Yeah yeah, whatever. Just get in the rocket. Ok, let's do this! Rocket Clone zips off at 55 percent the speed of Let's say Wolf 359, which is a modest 8 By the way, for those of you who don't know, It's a speed multiplied by a time. A light year is a distance. Anyway, Rocket Clone gets to Wolf 359 and When he finally gets back to the station, but only 24 years have gone by for him. If you're familiar with relativity, this Rule #2 for Relativity says: Every observer and their own clock. I get a clock. You get a clock. Everybody gets a clock!!! Different observers traveling different paths amounts of time. There's no paradox there. A quick way to calculate the difference is It's a number that shows up all over relativity, Using that factor, I expected Rocket Clone even though I'm 29 years older. There's no surprise on my end. Rocket Clone is the one that's surprised. Rule #4 says: It will always look to an observer As far as Rocket Clone is concerned, he stayed We also have Rule #1: No point of view has Rocket Clone is the one with the paradox. He aged 24 years and if he does the same calculation he expects to find me only 20 years older, He expects to be the older one. Paradox!! Ahhhhh!!!!!!!! Huh... Not sure why that happened. I've said it before and I'll say it again. Paradoxes are not a problem of the universe. They're a problem of the human mind. The universe doesn't have a problem. We do. When it comes to paradoxes, there are only Option One! We've made an assumption we shouldn't Meaning one of the rules we used isn't actually It's difficult to argue with Rule #4 since and Rule #2 can't be the problem since that's That leaves only Rule #1, so let's take Throwing out rule #1 is a very common way but that unravels the entirety of relativity. I mean, do you think I would have spent an relativity that could break in relativity? Don't be ridiculous! It's rule #1 for crying out loud! Anyway, here's how the typical explanation Since Rocket Clone accelerates, he feels a A force of uniform gravity to be specific. This breaks the symmetry between his clock somehow making mine the correct clock. But here's the problem with that solution. There never was any symmetry between him and Like we said earlier: through space-time time. And that's not just true of time. It's also true of distance, length, and Having one of the observers accelerate just they disagree on. Forces are now on the list. That's not that significant of a change. It certainly doesn't make one person right It just makes them more relative. But don't accelerated points of view require Yes, but general relativity fixed that by not by throwing it away. Rule #1 holds true in general relativity just The fact that Rocket Clone accelerates isn't Then what other mistake could we have made? I'm so glad you asked! Option Two! We didn't consider something we should have I feel like there's something missing here. 1 2 4 Oh! It's Rule #3. We forgot Rule #3. We have to use the correct coordinate transformation. Remember this quick calculation Rocket Clone It's wrong. And this quick calculation I did? Also wrong! But didn't you get the right answer? Yeah, but that's, well, OK, maybe "wrong" was a bit harsh. Let's go with "sloppy"? When we do this, we get no perspective on The number Rocket Clone calculated is valid. It's just not the answer to the question You're not always calculating what you think It's safer to use the full transformations because you transform both space and time It gives you a better idea of what you're But you know what works even better? A space-time diagram! If you're not familiar with those, you should It'll also help with all these rules I've So, in the Twins Paradox, the two paths look Rocket Clone accelerates away from the space reaches 55 percent the speed of light and stops accelerating. He eventually gets to Wolf 359, turns around, The straight paths are constant velocity. The curved paths are the accelerations. So, yes, there are three sections where Rocket But like I said before: The fact that Rocket Clone accelerates isn't the problem. This paradox does not require accelerations. It persists even if Rocket Clone goes the These are the lengths of the two space-time If we're going to remove all the accelerations then we can't even let Rocket Clone turn That means these are the numbers we expect because we're only looking at half the trip. OK, now let's look at the simplified diagram. Say Rocket Clone is already going at 55% the when he flies past my space station. Sometime later, he passes Wolf 359. He just keeps going because no accelerations. I say Rocket Clone's path is about 14 and but he says it's about 12 years tall. Exactly half the time differences from earlier So this is totally consistent with everything The paradox arose when tried to look the other Starting from Rocket Clone's coordinates, Wait a minute!! We're not looking at Rocket Clone's path We're looking at mine. That's a completely different space-time Hmm. Rocket Clone's path measured in Rocket Clone's but that only includes a portion of my path. A portion that's about 10 years tall in Exactly half the time difference from earlier But that doesn't actually say anything about It's only saying things about his path, The event of Rocket Clone passing Wolf 359 It's on his. To line that up with the event at the end Rocket Clone has to wait over 5 more years years tall in his coordinates. These &quot;horizontal&quot; gridlines are lines of equal That 17 and half years is the number Rocket to calculate my time using that sloppy calculation Except, he wouldn't have known to do that. That extra 5 years doesn't even exist in Rocket Clone would have turned around. He wouldn't even be on that path anymore. So, here's the real problem. Both of us are trying to calculate the location in someone else's coordinates. There are four different measurements here. Two different paths measured in two different Everyone agrees if those measurements are because we just take the measurement together. But, if they're at different places, we At distant locations, those calculations are Each of us has to take a measurement of ourselves, maybe one selfie every day, and then send it to the other person. And that's a whole other can of worms that My point is this: The acceleration doesn't It's just that, without the acceleration, The acceleration gives us a second shared If we don't want to deal with sending selfies we need two shared events to measure the passage One at the beginning We can't agree on any other events we might so we can't compare measurements between The acceleration doesn't give anyone priority. It just fixes a measurement problem. You don't have to throw out rule #1 The Twins Paradox disappears entirely if So, are you satisfied with this solution? Please discuss in the comments. Thanks for liking and sharing this video. Don't forget to subscribe if you'd like Hit that notification bell if you really like And until next time, remember, it's OK to Still feeling like you need some practice? Then check out Brilliant.org. Brilliant is a problem solving website designed a wide variety of topics. If you liked this video, then you'll probably Anyone who is new to relativity might want It gives you that traditional introduction You know, these equations here. Once you feel comfortable, you can check out where you hone your skills using space-time diagrams. That's where the true power of relativity They even have a quiz on the Twins Paradox. They do talk about acceleration in there, Brilliant was nice enough to sponsor this The first 72 people to visit brilliant.org/ScienceAsylum It's a really good offer if you're interested Several of you were disappointed I didn't a space-time diagram for the two ships moving There's a reason for that. You can calculate relative speeds using angles but they're hyperbolic angles, which means That's a kind of math I wasn't interested Anyway, thanks for watching!