Don't slow down. Well, that's -- [laughs] Obviously he's trying to play very fast, but when you want to play fast, the first thing you have to do is relax. Hi, my name is Antonio Sanchez. I'm a jazz drummer and composer. I'm a four-time Grammy winner, and I did the film score for &quot;Birdman.&quot; Today, we're going to be from films and TV and Are there any drummers in the house? I play percussion. Just see if you can do what I do, OK? Just give it a try. [laughs] The main thing to notice here is they only have a which is basically not and then the crash. It's There's no bass drum, This is the &quot;School of It's, like, the heartbeat So those are really not at all the elements that you would need to do a good rock groove. OK! So far, the kid is doing a good job. Because he's doing what he told him to do. The main challenge for somebody that's coming from classical percussion, to play drum set, it would be how to coordinate Classical percussionists Good. OK. No, that's bad. That's like &quot;George of the Jungle.&quot; Play it up here on the Aw, that's it. OK. Let's go! Musically, I don't think The song he's playing is Deep Purple's &quot;Smoke on the Water.&quot; What you need in that [imitates drums] And, again, he doesn't have So I would have him maybe try to imitate the bass drum on the floor tom, like, [imitates drums] something like that. Having said that, I know Jack Black, he's a good musician. And, you know, what he told I give it a 9 or a 10. One thing that I noticed he looks relaxed. And He's hitting as a rock drummer. That's not easy to do. It's kind of easy to get injured if you don't know what you're doing. He definitely put some work into it. Everything so far that I've seen totally matches with what I've heard. For example, in this section, I can hear a double bass drum, which, in this case, it's called a double pedal, that has two beaters that are And then you play it like but you're only playing on one. And to me, it sounds like he So you can hear the from the double bass drum and the hands just doing the cymbal. It doesn't sound to me focus on a groove or a specific tempo. It's more like an energy. So she's screaming and playing around a tonal center, and making sort of a wall of sound. Like, almost if they're playing free, and that seems like the right choice for that particular tune. I would give it a 10. It impressed me how well he played for him not to be a professional drummer. Don't slow down. I'm just not sure what Obviously he's trying to play very fast. But when you want to play fast, the first thing you have to do is relax instead of tensing up. That's why you have to so that you can feel the movement, how everything works together, the right hand with the left hand and the left foot and the right foot, and then you start speeding But just looking at the faces he's making while he's playing, it was and trying to see how much The body is one thing, but if you start getting then that's the beginning of the end. Pick it up! Faster! I didn't hear the song, but traditionally, &quot;Caravan&quot; is not a very hard song to play, and it's not a very fast For example, there are other songs that are traditionally very fast. There's one called &quot;Lover,&quot; and the melody goes [humming] [humming]. The drums are supposed to play kind of double time on top of it. &quot;Caravan&quot; is not one of those. &quot;Caravan&quot; is usually a medium up, which is [humming]. Although I didn't hear the arrangement. Maybe if they had an amazing arrangement that justifies the song being Whatever it is that he's I don't hear any real tempo. I don't hear a clear pattern. When you're playing jazz you start usually with quarter which is 1, 2, 3, 4; 1, 2, 3, 4. Then the right pattern, which is the quintessential which is what makes it swing, is 1, 2, 3, 4; 1, 2, 3, 4; ching, ching, cha-ching, ching, cha-ching. We don't have a hi-hat today, but that would be going in two and four. 1, 2, 3, 4; 1 2, 3, 4. That's the basic pulse. And then on your left hand, you would be just kind of conversing on what's going on with the music. And then you speed that up. But nothing he was doing There's no pulse, there's no It's just like, kshh, like a broken washing machine. [cowbell ringing on tempo] That's the pulse. That's but you would hear both And to my ears, they're really not. If you want your drummer to play [imitates faster drumming], you would not play that. But the cowbell's a great instrument too, to play really loud so that Faster! Well, that's -- [laughs]. The amount of blood that there that's kind of staggering. The only times where I bled is I hit the edge of the hi-hat. You can open one of your But that amount of blood on the drums, that's a sign that something I would probably rate it at a 1. It kind of shows that speed there's no finesse, there's no nuance, so there's no music, really. My shoulders and my neck hurt I remember this guy. There He was doing all that stuff. I remember watching because it looked so crazy To me, it's very hard. Because I've always emphasized trying to make the least amount of movement and get the most out of the sound. And he's doing the most amount Having said that, he plays great. The grooves and licks they're fairly complicated. A lick is basically a that you can throw at any given moment. So if you do [imitates drumming], that's one lick. Well, Kevin didn't He just hit the cymbal a couple of times. And that's it. You can tell he's never really played a drum set in his life, which is fine. I think Twirling, throwing sticks up in the air. They're not necessarily but if you want cool they can be very effective. When you do those kinds of tricks and the music suffers because of that, then I think you should 10, for sure. Everything they're trying to he's doing it. It wasn't that bad. That's a very simple drumbeat. When it comes to drumming styles, there are some that are Rock is usually where you start because it's one of the most simple ways to create already, like, a cool beat. If you're going to do [imitates drumming], that already sounds good. Anybody with decent hand-eye coordination could probably pull that It's not totally lining up Movies, for some reason, they usually don't get the syncing with the image and the Drums is very precise. With guitars or bass, you cannot really tell that much because there's not that clear attack, as when you are trying to hit something. I mean, she's kind of doing it. The technique leaves a lot to be desired because she's grabbing the You get no power from that, because all of the weight that you would be able it's not there. You need to find the place in the stick where it will bounce by itself the most. If you hold it really far back, it would just go like and just die out. And if you're holding really the stick would bounce and So you have to find the sweet spot. And usually the sweet spot is, like, three-quarters back into the stick. In that situation, the drums You can totally look that relaxing and play a good rock beat. Drummers, it doesn't matter they should be relaxed. Usually rock drummers have a a lot more kind of big gestures, even if they're doing something Instead of playing on the hi-hat, she's playing on the floor tom. So [imitates drums], which is like The White Stripes. That's what they would be known for, that kind of a beat. I would say probably a 7 or an 8. She didn't do such a bad job. So, that's one thing. Many people maybe don't know or why people play this way. What he's playing here is which takes a lot longer to learn. When you play traditional grip, these two fingers are You have to find different ways to make these two fingers do the work of all these four fingers. And then you're doing which is the left, in terms of like he's doing So then you have to work twice as hard to get some of the same finesse and speed. When you think, why don't both hands just do exactly the same thing? That's called match grip. The traditional grip comes People would play this way so that there was an incline on the snare drum, and then it was very easy to while you were walking or marching. I think his playing he's coming more from a jazz background. Usually, people that play traditional grip come more from jazz. Sounds good. What he started playing, [imitates drumming], was totally accurate for that time period, in the '60s, and '70s too. Like, for example, The Beach that had that kind of vibe. That would be very similar to the kit that Ringo Starr would It's a four-piece kit, they call it, so, yeah, it's accurate. He sounded good, and it That's 100% accurate. The first thing you would would be just to hit just to see what it sounds like. And then you would probably start with some kind of groove Depends also what style and what you play. But if you were going to play That would have been my In the '80s, this was a thing. For example, Rush, Neil This drum set is in what it's, like, a metal bar that where you set everything on top, which was very popular during the '80s. But what I notice is that he's just using the left side of the kit. Normally, your right leg would And I know Dana Carvey, he and he's absolutely playing Drum solos can be anything. You can have a completely or you can completely improvise So there's really no correct or incorrect way to play a solo. Usually, in a rock context, but you kind of keep some and then you do a bunch of fills. And it's just kind of meant What he did is not particularly hard, but it's not particularly easy either. You need a couple of But the drumming itself 10, for sure. Lately, my favorite drum movie, even though the plot is very sad, is the &quot;Sound of Metal.&quot; Everything you see that it's actually happening. Thanks for watching. And if you enjoyed this video, why not click on the video above?