Hello Friend how are you? I'm Svieta. In Myself and delicious. But many of you wrote to me asking for novelty. new. So today I'm going to show you how to prepare and that is called Franco Galli. He is an American baker of Italian origin. It has nothing to do with a purchased panettone. I recommend you prepare it. And as you go Although it takes time, it is not difficult. Why with others. And if you follow all the steps just as It is very aromatic, very tasty and has a Like a house, which is built brick step by step. Therefore to begin what we are going to do For this we put the yeast in the container. dry You can also use yeast We add the warm water. And we remove. Subscribe to my channel if you have not already done so. We sift the flour. And we remove very well. We leave the preferment at rest so that And so the preference has gone up. In a bowl we put the soft butter, without We add the sugar. And with the help of a wooden spoon we beat You can also use the blender. We add the eggs. And we beat the eggs We add the preferment. And we remove very well. We sift the flour. We cover the container and let the dough You can let it rise at room temperature, fridge, from 10 to 12 hours. You can do it for morning of the next day. And that's what I'm going So that the raisins that we are going to put to panettone moisturize a little. We put the raisins in a bowl and add you can put water or tea. We close the container and leave the raisins ideal is 1 day. And so the first dough has been left after We cut the orange in small squares My orange is homemade, I made it on my own. the link below the video, in the description. We make the citrus zest. I a lime or green lemon and an orange. or the lemon and orange ... put the zest In the video of the panettone that I have in my of a panettone by hand. But many of you have In the bowl of the mixer we put the butter We add the sugar. In 6th speed we beat the butter with We add the egg and the yolks. In 5th or 6th speed we beat the mixture We add the seeds of vanilla or essence We add the citrus zest. And we add honey. In 6th speed we beat all 1 minute. We add the first dough. In 5th speed we beat until the mixture Now we remove the stirring rod. We sift the flour. We add the salt. We put the kneading hook. In 2nd speed we knead 10 minutes. We leave the dough at rest for 5 minutes. In 3a speed we amassed 10 minutes. We leave the dough rest for another 5 minutes. In 2nd or 3rd speed we knead the mass others We add the frosty orange. And the raisins hydrated. In 2nd speed we integrate the fruit to the We spread the bowl with a small amount of oil. We put the dough inside. Wet your hands in water and bend the dough We close the container and leave the dough in We re-fold the dough into an envelope. We close the container and let the dough Friends, my container underneath has a gel and it helps the mass rise before. When the dough has risen the lid begins to bulge. If you want to see this container I'll leave you My mass has been slow to rise 2 hours and 20 minutes. yours may take longer to climb or less. We spread the table with oil. We dump the dough on the table. Divide the dough into 2 pieces of the same weight. We form the dough by making a ball. And we put it in the mold. So that later it is easy to transport the the oven grate. And we let them rise mold. I'm going to cover them with a plastic bag After 1 hour we remove the plastic. 20 minutes before the levado ends down. At 24oC my panettones have been slow to rise Higher temperature will rise before and vice versa. With the help of a razor blade or a some cuts in the shape of a cross. We wet our fingers in the water and separated a At the center of each panettone we put a We take the panettones to the oven. After 5 minutes we put the heat from above until they are as you like. Now that they have taken color I am going to turn them We take 2 skewers and perforate the panettones. And we hang them. I'm going to hang them between two chairs because And we let them cool in this position We cool them upside down because the mass of the and if we do not hang them upside down it's possible Once they are completely cold we remove And so have the panettones. Now you can eat. To keep them simply save them in It smells good! The raisins soaked in the rum are very juicy. The crumb is moist and delicious, very creamy Vanilla, orange and zest from of flavors and aromas in the mouth. Friends, this has been tremendous, very rich. I recommend you do it. You will see how They will look at you with different eyes. And yourselves parties will have a different air, a color If you liked the video, share it by