I have a big question. Which is, who runs the world? It used to be an easy question to answer. If you're over 45 like me, you grew up in a world The United States called the shots the Soviets set the rules on the other. And that was a bipolar world. It's very simple. If you're under 45, you grew up when the Soviet Union and that left the United States dominating global institutions And that was a unipolar world. And then about 15 years ago, things got a little more complicated. The United States increasingly or the architect of global trade or even the cheerleader for global values. Other countries were becoming and they could increasingly ignore sometimes even setting What happened? Three things. Number one, Russia was not integrated A former great power and they are angry about it. We can argue about whose fault that is, Number two, China was integrated on the presumption that as they got they would become Americans. Turns out, they're still Chinese. (Laughter) And the United States is not particularly Number three, tens of millions of citizens and other wealthy democracies felt left behind by globalization. This has been ignored for decades. But as a consequence, they felt that their governments Now if you look at all the headlines driving all of this geopolitical over 90 percent of them And that's why today But as we know, that's not going to be with us for long. So what comes next? What kind of a world order might we expect over the next ten years? Some of what I might say Because we're not going to have a bipolar or a unipolar If we don't have one or two superpowers, we don't have a single global order. No, instead, we will have a little overlapping, and the third will have immense what we think, what we want, and what we're prepared to do to get it. But first things first. Today, we have a global security order. And as you see from the map, the United States and its allies The US is the only country in the world that can send its soldiers and its sailors and its military equipment No one else is close. China is growing in its military though nowhere else. Lots of American allies in Asia And as a consequence, on the United States With the Russian invasion of Ukraine, US allies in Europe are becoming on the United States and a US-led NATO. The Russian military, of course, much less so today, especially as they've lost and all of that equipment and with sanctions making it extremely Now, Russia and China and others but thank God it is still And as a consequence, our security order is a unipolar order and it is likely to remain Now at the same time there's also a global economic order. And here, power is shared. The United States is still But the US can't use to tell other countries The United States and China are enormously and so they can't control each other. You may be surprised to hear this, but today US-China trade relations in history. Now, other countries in the world, a lot of them want access but they also want access soon, by 2030, likely to be And you can't very well have a cold war if the US and the Chinese are the only two Yes? Yes. So the European Union and they set the rules. And if you want to do you listen to those rules. India is playing a greater role Japan still matters, too. And over the next ten years, there will be a rise and fall of the relative capacities But the global economic order is Now, between these two orders are tensions because the United States will use to try to bring more And we already see this and in critical minerals The Chinese are trying to use their to align more of the world diplomatically. And Japan and Europe and India and everyone else will do their damnedest to ensure that neither And they will mostly succeed. Now, so far I have spoken with you about the two world orders we already see, but there's a third that is coming soon And that is the digital order. And the digital order but by technology companies. We all know how much military support NATO countries have provided Ukraine during the war. But it's technology companies allowing Ukraine to defend itself It's technology companies the ability to speak with their generals If it wasn't for those Ukraine would have been fully offline And I don't believe President Zelensky Technology companies determine in real time and without filter, to speak with hundreds as he runs again for the presidency. It's social media platforms and their ability and conspiracy theory. Without them, we do not have riots We do not have trucker riots in Ottawa. We do not have a January 8 Technology companies increasingly When I was growing up, I mean, my deep and abiding either come from how I was raised -- (Laughter) Or some genetic failure. (Laughter) Could be both. (Laughter) But today, our identities are determined and algorithm. If you want to challenge the system, you can't just question authority, as we were all told Today, you have to question the algorithm, and that is a staggering amount of power in the hands of these What are they going to do And that depends on who they want to be when they grow up. So if China and the United States over the digital world and technology companies align with those governments, we will end up in a technology cold war. And that means the digital order If, on the other hand technology companies persist and we retain competition we will have a new globalization, Or if the digital order and governments erode and we've already seen technology companies on the global stage in every way and we will have a techno-polar order. And that will determine whether we have or a world without freedom. Now at this point in my speech, I'm supposed to talk about the good news. (Laughter) But those of you that have heard this know that that is not coming. (Laughter) There is no pause button on these I don't know if you know this, there are over 100 people with the knowledge and the technology Honestly, I don't have answers, but I have a few questions Because these technology companies These technology titans are not just men They are increasingly with influence over our futures. And we need to know, are they going to act accountably as they release new What are they going to do that they are collecting on us And the one that I think should Will they persist with these driving so much revenues and driving hate and misinformation and ripping apart our society? (Applause) When I was a student back in 1989, and the Wall fell, the United States was the principal Not always successfully. Often hypocritically. But number one, nonetheless. Today, the United States has become that destroy democracy. The technology leaders who create are they OK with that? Or are they going to do We need to know. Thank you. (Cheers and applause)