The crazy prediction of a new Ice On Christmas day, while people in Italy Brazilians are at the beach All of this could however change in the future. falling, the cold never fades, and If a long winter period strikes the Earth, we Resource scarcity would be the first issue crops would perish, and food would become scarce. hoarding and sharing. Those who choose to hoard Scientists think we might find ourselves There are cycles on Earth that are in conflict: However, these conflicts won't last will eventually stop, and a long winter will come. know more about it! Surrounded by Cycles basically surrounded by cycles. Let me explain. of events that are repeated regularly in the same cycles in our world and in the universe. Some annual animal migrations, or the circadian are human-produced, like growing and harvesting Every year, on the 25th of December, In the collective imagination, Christmas This day is associated with snow bringing gifts and joy to all people, However, if you live in Brazil, Christmas Day falls during summer. to tan! For the Brazilian people, there's no hot think about making one! You might want to eat an this happens is because of...seasons. The Cycle of Seasons but I think it's worth reviewing, as this will topic of this video, the Milankovitch Cycles. revolution of Earth around the Sun and the the tilt of its axis causes different parts of the results in the changing of seasons in different During summer, the hemisphere that is tilted resulting in longer days and warmer temperatures. from the Sun experiences shorter days and cooler during winter when the hemisphere tilted away resulting in shorter days and cooler temperatures. summer and winter, and they occur when the from the Sun. During these seasons, the amount across the Earth, resulting in moderate Seasons have a significant impact on life to the changing climate, using cues such their life cycles. Many animals migrate to some plants only flower during certain seasons. seasons also affect human activities. Seasonal and behavior to the economy. For example, winter it snows, while beach activities are more As you can see, seasons are an important cycle new growth and changes to the natural world. weather alternate to colder ones. The Milankovitch Cycles the particular configuration of a planet's axial the host star. But, as the Serbian scientist this is not the only factor capable of having This genius hypothesized that the long-term, position relative to the Sun are a strong and are responsible for triggering the beginning Did I already mention this guy was a genius? is described by what aerospace engineers call quantities that help describe the movement of an artificial satellite like JWST around the Earth of our galaxy. He first asked himself what would so-called eccentricity, slowly changed over time. Changes in Eccentricity information about the shape of an orbit. The more you depart from zero, the more The thing is, due to the gravitational minor factors, the Earth's eccentricity, which is of the Earth's orbit around the Sun. This, in Eccentricity is the reason why our seasons are the Northern Hemisphere currently about 4.5 days longer than autumns. As eccentricity decreases, What Milankovitch did was to examine how these reaches the top of Earth's atmosphere, He found out that, when the Earth's orbit is at solar radiation reaches Earth at our planet's at its farthest departure from the Sun. Currently, (most circular) and is very slowly decreasing, However, the change in global annual insolation Because variations in Earth's eccentricity are in annual seasonal climate variations. Before moving on, be sure to like or dislike the viewer. Plus, Don't forget to subscribe to our BELL, so you don't miss ANY of our daily videos! Changes in Obliquity This genius...uhm...Milankovitch also the obliquity and the axial precession. The obliquity is the angle between the plane of This tilt has varied between 22.1 and 24.5 degrees the more extreme our seasons are. Think Interestingly enough, a larger tilt angle basically, more tilt equals more melting But this effect isn't uniform worldwide. Higher solar radiation than areas near the equator. between its extremes at 23.4 degrees. And get a cycle that lasts about 41 thousand years. that while our winters will gradually become will begin to build up in high latitudes. more of the Sun's energy back into space, which, --- For what concerns axial precession I don't know if you are aware of this, but a spinning toy top. This wobble, caused affects Earth's rotation and is known as axial years and makes seasonal differences more extreme Currently, perihelion (Earth's closest point to Hemisphere and summer in the Southern Hemisphere. causing the Northern Hemisphere to experience Hemisphere to have more moderate seasons. entire orbital ellipse wobbles due to interactions 112 thousand years and changes Earth's orbit's Combined, axial and apsidal precession have thousand years on average. And fun fact, Earth's Polaris Australis being the current stars, but a --- The small changes set in motion separately and together to influence Earth's larger changes in our climate over tens of Still, what he found is both at some point, we the Earth will The two main assumptions 1) that the changes in radiation at some latitudes 2) that the obliquity is the most important Putting these into his own mathematical model, he 41,000 years. Given that the last ice age we this would in turn mean that the next ice age However, subsequent research confirmed that Ice between one and three million years ago. But about lengthened to 100 thousand years, matching Earth's been proposed to explain this transition, This problem is also known In any case, according to the most recent ice age before 50 to 100 thousand years. Predictions Accuracy long-term climate on planet Earth is no picnic. of the orbital elements over time would make linking these variations to climate variations. acts on the climate is still not we lack a good model that expresses the climate Due to these reasons, research to better Earth's rotation and how specifically Milankovitch But the theory that they drive the timing of --- you so much for watching! What would you like to you on the channel!