In the 1920's, the German mathematician David Hilbert devised a famous thought experiment to show us just how hard it is to wrap our minds Imagine a hotel with an infinite and a very hardworking night manager. One night, the Infinite Hotel totally booked up A man walks into the hotel Rather than turn him down, the night manager decides How? Easy, he asks the guest in room number 1 to move to room 2, the guest in room 2 to move to room 3, and so on. Every guest moves from room number &quot;n&quot; to room number &quot;n+1&quot;. Since there are an infinite there is a new room This leaves room 1 open The process can be repeated for any finite number of new guests. If, say, a tour bus unloads then every existing guest just moves from room number &quot;n&quot; to room number &quot;n+40&quot;, thus, opening up the first 40 rooms. But now an infinitely large bus with a countably infinite pulls up to rent rooms. countably infinite is the key. Now, the infinite bus perplexes the night manager at first, but he realizes there's a way to place each new person. He asks the guest in room 1 He then asks the guest in room 2 to move to room 4, the guest in room 3 to move to room 6, and so on. Each current guest moves to room number &quot;2n&quot; -- filling up only the infinite By doing this, he has now emptied all of the infinitely many which are then taken by the people Everyone's happy and the hotel's business Well, actually, it is booming banking an infinite number Word spreads about this incredible hotel. People pour in from far and wide. One night, the unthinkable happens. The night manager looks outside and sees an infinite line each with a countably infinite What can he do? If he cannot find rooms for them, on an infinite amount of money, and he will surely lose his job. Luckily, he remembers Euclid proved that there of prime numbers. So, to accomplish this of finding infinite beds of infinite weary travelers, the night manager assigns to the first prime number, 2, raised to the power So, the current occupant of room number 7 goes to room number 2^7, which is room 128. The night manager then takes the people and assigns them to the room number of the next prime, 3, raised to the power of their seat So, the person in seat goes to room number 3^7 or room number 2,187. This continues for all of the first bus. The passengers on the second bus are assigned powers of the next prime, 5. The following bus, powers of 7. Each bus follows: powers of 11, powers of 13, powers of 17, etc. Since each of these numbers only has 1 and the natural number powers of their prime number base as factors, there are no overlapping room numbers. All the buses' passengers using unique room-assignment schemes based on unique prime numbers. In this way, the night every passenger on every bus. Although, there will be like room 6, since 6 is not a power Luckily, his bosses so his job is safe. The night manager's strategies because while the Infinite Hotel it only deals with the lowest mainly, the countable infinity 1, 2, 3, 4, and so on. Georg Cantor called this level We use natural numbers as well as the seat numbers on the buses. If we were dealing such as that of the real numbers, these structured strategies as we have no way The Real Number Infinite Hotel has negative number rooms in the basement, fractional rooms, so the guy in room 1/2 always suspects he has less room than the guy in room 1. Square root rooms, like room radical 2, and room pi, where the guests expect free dessert. What self-respecting night manager even for an infinite salary? But over at Hilbert's Infinite Hotel, where there's never any vacancy and always room for more, the scenarios faced by the ever-diligent and maybe too hospitable night manager serve to remind us of just how hard it is for our relatively finite minds to grasp a concept as large as infinity. Maybe you can help tackle these problems after a good night's sleep. But honestly, we might need you to change rooms at 2 a.m.