Today, I have the pleasure of speaking with DNA at Harvard. David's work, his lab's work our understanding of human history and human perspectives. In its own light it's very which I plan on asking you about, it's and what that implies about the future of AI. David, we were just chatting before we you've been studying since the book came between modern humans and Neanderthals. Can you Well, what's very interesting is that what we have people living today. We also have data from in western Eurasia for the last couple of hundred Neanderthals. We also have DNA from Denisovans. from the DNA from a finger bone that was found be a new group of humans but was sequenced. plus bits of DNA from these sources mixed into 10 to 14 years, we collectively have been piecing related to our closest relatives, who are now no Denisovans and maybe others who are not yet model based on accretion. We start with the modern obtain those sequences. We add the Denisovans add other mixture events to make the model fit. events that seem increasingly implausible. If and the sun relate to each other in ancient attached by the Greek, Hellenistic astronomer the movements of the planets and the stars, the earth. We've added all of these epicycles to pretty fundamental differences that might Just to give you an example of this, modern humans separated from a group ancestral to which we have sequences--somewhere 500,000-750,000 beginning in about 2012 and 2014. That's still of the DNA lineages connecting them. Except for on. Modern humans are one group and then there's a group. They separated 500,000-750,000 years ago. series of papers since that time is that there mitochondrial sequence, what you get from your on. The shared ancestor there between Neanderthals years ago, which is after the split that's also learned this is true for the Y chromosome, maybe 300,000 or 400,000 years separated between mitochondrial DNA, the Denisovans are much more So the story told by these two parts of the genome and incompatible with the main story. We know of Neanderthal DNA comes from a gene flow event human lineage a few hundred thousand years ago. mitochondrial DNA and Y chromosome come from that chance is only 5% squared, which is very small. selection for the mitochondrial DNA coming from the Y chromosome coming from modern humans, up in frequency. But that would have to produce this pattern. It just seems surprising. and epicycle ideas like natural selection to the case. But one wonders whether profoundly data. That's something we and others have been One example we've been playing with is one from modern humans than the 3-5% estimated. We or 50% or 70%. In that view, Neanderthals modern humans and Neanderthals are just as Denisovans. In that case, maybe it's not clear humans archaic? Are modern humans modern? Are What's also become clear in the last few years ancient DNA but based on using more powerful and data--is that modern humans are also highly ancient DNA yet. Of course, once one has ancient you can't explain modern African DNA without the mixtures that contributed and mixed between which groups were archaic? Which were modern? Was one more closely related to Neanderthals It's not obviously wrong that the model's very Interesting. From your book I remember that over 200,000 years separated from other groups, descended from Eurasia. Then you're saying have a sister lineage with Neanderthals. related Neanderthals are to us and how much what model do you think is the most plausible I'm very agnostic. I really don't know. it sounded like you thought they were low The models that are considered to be standard dogma that's developed over an accretion Someone sequences a genome. Someone performs wasn't known before. We claim a mixture event we know about before. That gets patched onto the Nobody has really rethought the whole thing very different. You can actually reassemble the the simple model up, but thinking about it again In fact, it might be quite different Where did the most recent gene flow guess it's not the most recent, because years ago. But the one you're referring Even that's not clear. Probably such a thing would western Eurasia somehow. It's not even clear where time. The modern human lineage, leading to the was probably in sub-Saharan Africa for the much more. Certainly our main lineage was But in a period between about 2 million to 500,000 ancestors leading to modern humans were. There Africa with a parallel increase in brain size humans in one place than in the other. It's they were in both places and mixed to form There's been an assumption where Africa's been of years. Certainly it's been absolutely But in this key period when a lot of important Homo habilis and Homo erectus all the way to Neanderthals, modern humans, and Denisovans--it's where that occurred as I understand it. the things history would have figured out is the biggest questions you could imagine asking of genetics. The conventional model is the thing the first things you're taught about the world. We're learning in greater detail what those parts right now because of new technology that's being The audience might not be aware of how much of a past. I just really want to emphasize that. few hundred thousand years ago happened between outside of Africa, then did that lineage again? How should we think about that? the main lineage leading to modern humans is from talking with the archaeologists and the continuous ecological spaces at certain periods now the Near East and Africa. The fauna and the or pumped from the Near East into Africa. The place of overlap between Eurasian fauna and flora place for interactions to occur, especially in from one region get pumped into the Near East. they get pumped into Eurasia or the rivers. different climatic events? but the ecology with deserts and so on makes periods of time, the Near East gets reclaimed by of time, it gets reclaimed by Africa. It's kind of again and again. I'm not an expert on this. extension of the modern human substructure lineages coalesce to form people living today, the Near East several hundred thousand years of what we have now sequenced as Neanderthals. That gene flow event occurs there. It's modern population that extends into the Near East--pushing of modern human incursions since that time into intermediate periods, from the skeletal record Certainly the genetic data attests to a very How many humans are around at this time? To the this group, how many different groups of humans but just separate locations or so forth--such of them and there's a shared common descent. interesting. A couple of years ago, we published populations from mostly eastern and central population exchanges that we would really like to included individuals going back up to oldest DNA from sub-Saharan Africa, which is to probe 2 million years ago, but we can't. But many groups at many places all with very reduced living in tiny populations of hundreds of people at all over time. We see this again and again. model. If it's this small, what will happen time, and it will become very non-diverse. Over But of course, Africa today has great human is that the whole continent of sub-Saharan is full of hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands at all with each other. They are in very small this is a group that leaves hardly any descendants What's actually happening is that occasionally diversity. Diversity is maintained in the really appreciate the diversity by studying any whole ensemble of hundreds or thousands of tens There's some question about the migration rate groups losing diversity and going extinct recontact to recharge the diversity and create for example, in southern Africa or I want to go back to what you were years--not just with modern humans, but Neanderthals, and other species--there's been despite the fact that they're in different if you're in sub-Saharan Africa, either niche we're in rewards marginal increases in of that and keep chugging on that variable. happening in the world? What was happening with pressure was turning towards greater intelligence? of insight and ideas about this topic. It's an almost nothing. I wrote this book, Who We Are and of the Human Past. It's a bit of a misleading The way in which it's a bait-and-switch title is something about how we became whatever we think So I try very early in the book to say that up to this point, we don't really have very how we came to be distinct from other animals. to be, how we are from another perspective surprising how we came to be and how we are people used to think that we were not mixed. In past in many populations we didn't anticipate. into a distinctive niche that includes putting a large amount of metabolic energy to body size that is much bigger than is in the about that. One of them is that genomics actually potentially on the verge of learning a lot about qualitative insights about that topic right now. in place prior to the separation of Neanderthals The common ancestors of Neanderthals and modern not obvious that there's parallel evolution in a sufficiently interconnected group that it's not I have so many questions there. When you population, are you referring not only to Possibly. thousands of years ago, can be thought of as That's almost certainly true. We don't yet and Eurasia, but this is 2 million years. It's the planet in seven or eight years. People move really separated by barriers that mean anything of even dozens or hundreds or thousands of years. a profound barrier that you would not expect periods of tens of thousands of years or hundreds That's fascinating. By the way, it's so correct terminology when we say people. What the ancestors of modern humans are at least archaic humans in the Near East. But out hundreds of thousands of years ago. size had already been accumulated before this pretty smart hundreds of thousands of years ago. happened 60,000 years ago. Then this group that just explodes all across the world. Something This is outside my area of expertise. I'm being sympathetic to the idea that it's hardly innovation. It's very natural to think that develop a new technique of storing information, writing allows you to record collective large storage devices, and so on and so allows you to create a cultural body of knowledge. modulates language ability not only in humans but have it. It's at least 200,000 years old when has language, so what do we think it was? language was. It's almost certainly the case that in ways that are probably pretty complicated, some people think that language in its modern form Stone Age, Upper Paleolithic revolution, 50,000 lineage. There might be a qualitative shift There's been one incredibly interesting and weird lot of people I know dropped off the paper. They it was so weird. They just thought it might be just so weird. This is one of the surprises that to come across in this conversation. I am pretty collecting. It's very surprising, this type expect. It just makes me think that things are something that's really not looked at before. based on epigenetic modification of the genome is not just a sequence of DNA ACTG. It also is decorated in anybody's cells by and off, in what conditions. An example of such pairs. This turns down a gene and makes it not is bestowed by cellular environments--and different species--to identify which genes are more by the ACTGs locally. It's encoded by something directly. It's really very interesting. methylation pattern survives in Denisovan and genes were turned down and turned up. and colleagues created these maps of where in the and where in modern human genomes, genes are complexity to this problem. They identified thousand parts of the sections of the genome that or turned up in Neanderthals and modern humans. methylated regions, roughly 1000 of them, that lineage. They asked what characterized them? Were very unusual on the modern human specific lineage? very surprising and unexpected. It was and pharyngeal tract. You can actually learn when a gene gets knocked out by an inborn kids will have a face that looks different or You know what the effect of knocking out these to how the modern human specific changes are. vocal tract--which is soft tissue not preserved is distinctive from chimpanzees. The shape that the range of sounds we use that chimpanzees don't though we don't have surviving hard tissue like this methylation signature which suggests that lineage and are absent in both the Neanderthal and the vocal tract is important in language, which that there are very important changes that have thousand years, specifically on our lineage To the extent that humans have had it for hundreds humans weren't able to expand out of Africa and... we have it. It could have been only a 100,000 years ago that these changes happened. different groups of modern humans. So we know it's at least that old, right? all groups of modern humans, at least at just that most of the separation between Khoisan Let me motivate for the audience why this is so 70,000 years ago there are half a dozen different different. Fast forward to now, there's one. The interesting for me is because I talk to people that you just make the model bigger. It give it more space, and it'll become intelligent. happened with the human brain... the brains got earth. That's the perspective that if we make powerful on the other end. To the extent that interesting implications for AI. That's wild. world maybe has some Bayesian update on how well One thing your comment makes me think about is analogy. The human brain is maybe only three the kind of increase that computability has of magnitude. I'm aware of studies that have to human babies. In fact, it's similar. For is pretty similar between chimpanzees and humans. intelligent than chimpanzees at some fundamental distinctive is social learning abilities. That's to see other people, to empathize with them, to learned by other people. I'm not an expert in this The adaptations humans have are ones that allow and not just rely on figuring out each thing. computability. Maybe it has some similarities. just don't know what happened 60,000 years and other types of humans were interacting, but Eurasia. Now humans not only dominate, but have any idea what changed between that time? ideas that have been floated, which I'll summarize hundreds of people--which is the size of a band--or shared cultural knowledge about tools, life more. But if you have a limited-sized group that's people, occasionally this group has an information and knowledge gets lost. There's not a critical some kind of critical mass, the group can becomes greater. You have a runaway process of how to make particular tools and patterns of An example I've heard talked about in this context About 10,000 years ago, the ancestors of people in continuous with the aboriginal populations of it got forgotten somehow. It's a cold place. They What you actually have in the world 50,000 years of thousands, of different human groups. They with each other. When we get lucky in ancient from each other and have reduced diversity majority of them go extinct, wiped out by natural You have a vast experiment with an archipelago of just have a process of accumulation and loss of these experiments going on, maybe something 50,000 to 100,000 years ago in people who One thing I didn't realize until I read your out into Eurasia was, and how small even generally ago. I remember one of the papers you cited said around this time period. People talk about the but there's many potential causes. Anyways, I everybody in Eurasia was initially like 1000 to that was the seed of this modern period? a relatively small number of people giving The bottleneck occurred well before the mixture like 50,000 years ago, plus or minus 5000 years Maybe it occurred somewhere in Arabia. Maybe it occurred somewhere else. But it occurred maybe before the encounter with Neanderthals that One way to see this is that in fact, this was not group with low diversity. The great majority of The one that started expanding into Eurasia also didn't mix with very many other groups and other groups. Maybe it also expanded inside of the expansion of the early modern human group by a within Africa expansion of the same group, One way to look at the expansion of modern humans is almost as a kind of sort of forest fire. It and interacts with the local people. Look at the origin who get to Europe, where we have the where we have the best data so far, of these very which are called Initial Upper Paleolithic. A in their last 2-8 generations. That's a kind dozen or so of these very early humans. mixed with Neanderthals in their ancestry. that you have sparks coming out of a kind of East or Near East. They come in and they start of South Asia or parts of Europe. They mix mixed populations, like these initial Upper and they all go extinct including the modern human the Neanderthal groups, the Denisovan groups, and is one of the modern human groups. That's what we see. The great majority of the ancestors of from the initial Upper Paleolithic ones. They're after 39,000 years ago, that repeoples a place of the same region. Those groups too disappear. 60,000 years ago and eventually makes it around, 39,000 years ago is also replaced. We'll talk The hunter-gatherers were replaced 8500 years and then after that by the Yamnaya from the and is replaced by the next group. That group That's probably right at some important superiority and inferiority with advantages and somehow establishing itself situation of many people coming together and or encounters with other human groups. It all spreads or ends up on top and other groups coming perspective you end up having African lineages different parts of Eurasia. That's certainly very difficult to understand what's going on. you're not thinking crudely in terms of the like Neanderthals, Denisovans, and modern many subcategories of different groups in this that's even more fascinating than that. There's I think that's right. There are lots of analogies encountering steppe migrations. There's Native as they come from the Old World. There's various people who cognitively or culturally have all just because of the nature of the interaction and one group doesn't. It's just complicated. not trying to be politically correct--that it's that makes it possible for these African no good insight into that topic. I don't think kind of evidence to say that that contributed certainly have many modern examples where cultural complexes encounter each other and way sort of thrive more demographically somehow. Agriculture was developed in the Middle East like Native Americans declined because of disease. One is that potentially this happened with respect to that causes the bubonic plague, Yersinia pestis. bit. James Scott, who I think just died a couple The whole book is like, "Agriculture sucked but some humans to organize nation states that get the barbarians and co-opt them because they One thing I didn't realize until I read that that afflict humans today are, everything from go down the list. It might have been because the density that was created. The theory he talks the hunter-gatherers, the "barbarians," couldn't was because they were getting killed off by there is for this. Basically, the question Europeans encountered Native Americans in the throughout history? If you go back to Europe 9000 has been like? That wasn't a one-off event? called The Fate of Rome. He's a Roman historian. Roman period, two of which are really not even the Roman empire is due to just weakening as the climatological worsening events. There is a lot been recurrent throughout history. It's not just but it's actually a lot of different The example that you mentioned is something that's This is now maybe eight years, nine years old. people who lived 6000 to 4000 years ago in the in Europe--were being published around 2015. and Kristian Kristiansen and colleagues, looked from the 100 or so humans they sequenced, of the random people they sequence from around the agent of the black death, but actually without That's required for flea-rat transmission. an aerosolized transmission or something. 5-10% who were dying must have been even higher, because There's a study by another group, Johannes Krause from the 1300s epidemic. They found that when you death, you only find a quarter of the people. So when they die, if they have bacteria in their A paper just came out a few weeks ago in about 5000 years ago of farmers who were just on A huge fraction of them have Black Death when they have rates that are even higher than 5-10%. It's It's not all at the same time. It's like the very large fraction. Well more than 10% have So it looks like this particular agent has been Eurasia. In fact, it's killing a scarily large person I am reading this literature, I think The implication is that a quarter to a half of so unbelievable and so ridiculous that such period of time are dying from this one agent. one paper after the other, publishing more implications of such a high rate of death. Yet bacteria in their blood and they're not dying are selectively picking tombs. These are tombs The implication seems to be that this one agent large fraction of people in western Eurasia of that? One thing is that it seems to be coming on the steppe--I mean, they are still dying Then it spreads into farming Europe, maybe see it. Maybe this results in disorganization death. Maybe it creates a type of situation that Americas, where societies were disrupted. killed a half percent of the world population This thing is killing a third of people or half with cultural knowledge, randomly ripping into his parents, resulting in civil wars? You have just disrupting the cultures that were situation where there was disruption in the old or even just by itself, it could have created an even though they were not as densely spread. It's something that we as an ancient DNA community keep making progress on. About 5000 to 4500 years in the ancestry of Europeans. An example of this the farmers who are there arrived there 6000 big stones of Stonehenge go up 4500 years They're replaced by migrants from the continent north of the Black and Caspian Seas. This is one we see it all over Europe. We see it in Spain. We We see it in Germany. We see it in Czechia. We see it everywhere. This wave of people from impressive, densely packed farmers with new They are not as focused on farming, although This is so crazy. Just for the audience if Yersinia pestis, that's responsible. I mean we for killing a third of Europeans more recently, that this helped with the Industrial Revolution higher wages, they had to make machines... Robert So it potentially causes the Industrial It causes inflation. In the medieval one, as I understand it, were sort of on fixed wages inflated out their seigniorial responsibilities. during the Bronze Age, it allows the steppe people or farmer population in Europe. In literally replace the existing people like the ones who this. The Plague of Justinian, the final one that Definitely. That's documented with genetics. and at least once the replacement of the modernity happened afterwards. It's crazy for one I don't know what the percentage of deaths was. but who knows? In any case, there's others empire are definitely not Yersinia. but this one in particular has had There are anthropologists and historians who have of humanity looked like. What kind of gods did informs their political philosophy today. James Does genetics shed any light on this? Was the first nation-states abusive? Is this stuff We have indirect information about some of these about is whether our genomes reacted to the You might think that our genomes would have been had adapted us to the previous environments we a change so economically, dietarily, cognitively shift in terms of how it adapts. You might the genome. You might expect to see a quickening we know the answer yet to whether that's occurred, learn that from the DNA data. There's an increasing view amongst geneticists relatively little directional selection evidence connected to this is the finding that different in frequency between, say, Europeans or West Africans and East Asians. If there selective advantages, they would have arisen In a few hundred generations, they would and in fact gone to 100%. There's thousands of and West Africans and Europeans, and so on. If expect many genetic changes to be 100% different West Africans and Europeans. We see almost none. not strong adaptation over the last 50,000 variants driving to 100% frequency difference which have hardly been connected with each other about. We don't see those variants. So maybe a shorter period of time, selection has quickened in the last 100 generations or something like Maybe we could see whether there's been a time period. The view amongst common trait steady state where the natural selection that bad variants. It's not adapting to new situations. how that works, because over a scale of quite different from our ancestors. Our brains proportions are different. Yet over the different. There are not genetic changes There's a kind of disconnect. It's tempting to because there's so little fixed if you look in the last 10,000 years in it looks like a lot of change is happening. like we don't really understand what's Do you have a sense of what those changes tell? Obviously 10,000 years ago, we're We're working right now on a study documenting western Eurasia based on tracing changes in about this period. They've been collectively accumulated this, led by Ali Akbari in my group. We think we very strong change in frequency over time, where where we can see traces, the whole genome is Can you give us a sneak peek? Do we know what It's very clear that there is extreme affect metabolism and immune traits. If you look or metabolic disease, these traits are highly collection of variants that are changing rapidly affecting cognition that we know in modern people Selection in the last 10,000 years doesn't seem behavioral traits. It seems to be focusing on with exceptions. On average, there's an extreme The immune thing makes sense. There direction is the metabolic thing pointing? clear downward selection against body fat, and predisposition to what today manifests itself West Eurasia has been pushed down again and pressure of natural selection, without a doubt. variants is pushing in the same direction in an One possible interpretation of this--and this is survival that's more feast and famine to one where store fat. There's selection against fat storage. that agriculture was terrible. If there had to suggest that things must have been pretty good. individual level and good on the population level. referring to, which is that there's a lot more beginning of agriculture than there are in the life could have been experienced more harshly. strategies of investing less in their young but young and having fewer young. The hunter-gatherer might be having more young. Some of them survive on average over a lifetime, there might be rely on such adaptations, it might be better. we have any sense of what it looked like when other. In many of these cases, you're talking to the extent that sometimes you refer to them with this modern genetic technology, can we here. We can see the trace of that. I know many different cases look different in terms of If you focus on one example, the Yamnaya become of Europe. It's not like Genghis Khan, where who everybody's pledging fealty to. They're organized enough that they can go from place to over." What did that concretely look like? up a little bit. In my book, I have a section conversations we had with archaeologists about conventional understanding of the past. of the local population in Germany about 4500 to from the steppes north of the Black and Caspian very distressed by the implication. Because a reaction against the initial idea people had 20th century, when people would see new types they would argue that this was the arrival of a movement into a region. It was a very disruptive or the Bell Beaker complex. It was seen as a The Nazis used this idea to argue that these were being very disruptive and violent. The "We don't know this." When you see the arrival or ways of organizing life--what you might be might be seeing something like people adopting by people of very different backgrounds. It's not actually the movement of people. of people? You're looking at densely settled could new people coming in from outside especially once you have farmers who are densely from somewhere else? They're not as dense on the the Mughals were in control for hundreds of How could people from outside with less But then you look at the genetic data and there's from people after these events. Almost all their across most of Europe. The DNA proved that idea you had is, what does it look like on the ground? people in archaeology who had made these arguments probably didn't occur in the past. It was a real It was a prime example that's been important for past was like until we actually look at it and guesses, our models, including many of mine, are we're surprised. I'm sorry for that long preamble. been something of a reconciliation after the book. DNA data. It's arguing about the subtlety of what's happened in Britain, for example. which happened about 4,500 years ago, isn't an The reason we're seeing such a disruption might and the Beaker people buried their dead. So it In Iberia there's a 40% arrival of foreigners chromosomes are completely replaced. The local men It looks like that must be extremely disruptive maybe this is female mate choice. Maybe it's not 4,000 years later amongst the descendants of 95 percent of the Y chromosomes are European. Native American. We know what happened or nice. Maybe what happened in Iberia 4,000 If you look at the details in Iberia, the period if you look at a micro scale, now that we have Southern Spain, it's very fast. In central fast. So actually there are these rapid People thought in Britain maybe this was a slow Netherlands. It's clearly the same population of it's very disruptive. You actually have the earlier Corded Ware people are local, which is actually local people adopting the religion ancestry. Then the Beaker arrival is incredibly little continuity. Probably what's happening with you have people who expand demographically a period of well less than a century. In more modern versions of this, when Cortes the emperor of Spain. Or you have the Mongols and enough hierarchical organization for something for a persistent invasion. We're going to keep until we've reached the ends of Europe. independent groups doing this at the We don't know. There are debates even about that. think about is the Comanche in the US Southwest. They expanded dramatically in parallel to the before encountering the militarized United local bands of people expanding. They go The Beaker people and the Corded Ware people of the Egyptians we actually have written history but they were contemporaries of these So we really don't know what was going on. but imagine if you were part of a community where reconstructions from Indo-European myth. That's these people were operating from because we think languages in this part of the world. At a certain parties and so on, and then maybe settle down built into the culture, you have a One thing that's really interesting that has was not really strong at the time that of the relationship between the Yamnaya and The Yamnaya are these groups that thrived the steppes north of the Black and Caspian domesticate the horse. That's arguable. They use and the wheel to exploit the open steppe lands and They're the world's first extreme mobile than the steppe. They expand into Europe. They in the Great Hungarian Plain in the Carpathian way of life to the forested parts of Europe, of the Yamnaya gets absorbed by the Corded That takes it further through Europe. But from the Yamnaya culturally. In fact, a lot of they can't be the same. They have some many different traditions. One possibility is early Corded Ware. The Corded Ware learn some actually take Yamnaya women and absorb them create a new community and that group expands. was that everybody had this cognitive bias to Indo-European notions of male-centered mythologies migration. You look at the genetic data. You look and the mitochondrial sequences, which are more the steppe expansion from the east to west expand. People have found this confusing. this. Most people expect to see that it's it's quite clear that the bias is not so strong. happening now is that it actually is a male-biased Yamnaya expansion is very male-biased. It expands Corded Ware complex people. Then what happens with the Yamnaya people and in fact the Yamnaya In fact, the Corded Ware males absorb and take females. You actually see these sites in early are happening. Females from farmers and females Ware community. Then they expand further. process. You have a male Yamnaya expansion, and further through females being absorbed into the expansion under the Corded Ware and so on. That but not always with the Yamnaya intuition that you would think it's domination. of the world is what you see in remote Oceania which are some of the first islands that people Pacific. Moving to this other part of the world, are there almost a little bit after 50,000 years Bismarck Archipelago to the east of New Guinea, The Pacific has all these fertile places It's completely empty of people until 3,000 years the Philippines. They skirt the edge of New Guinea and Fiji and Tonga and New Caledonia and Samoa of something called the Lapita cultural complex. they're almost entirely East Asian in ancestry. people in Vanuatu and Fiji and Tonga and New So something else happened afterward. East Asian via Taiwan and the Philippines. and 2,500 years ago, 500 years after the initial male-driven way from New Guinea and the have people with overwhelmingly Papuan ancestry origin of the ancestry that's overwhelmingly So there's a two-step process. The initial who invented outrigger canoe technology and becomes adopted by Papuans, who are using this see them trading back and forth between By the end, this culture is carried out by spread into New Caledonia and take local the way that people have this cognitive "Oh, it should be the East Asian males somehow see the reverse. This is what's going on. actually see evidence of males and females socially asymmetric behavior of two groups It could be female mate choice. It could be different patterns of male and female dispersal, other. We can look for clues in the genetic we can maybe figure out more. Going back to archaic humans, we talked a lot two different species of Denisovans. I don't know different kinds of Denisovans and also the but we're talking about half a dozen different I understand if new cultural technologies then they expand out through Eurasia. I get What I don't understand is how none of the other Neanderthals or hobbits. There was no Everywhere this one tribe of African humans I don't know. It may be a numerical issue. If the best data in the Holocene, the last 10,000 of hunter-gatherers for a few thousand more for example, hunter-gatherers survive for several probably because they're exploiting the once something happens. Mammoths but they survive on Wrangel Island north of each of these places is encountered by the The other thing is that it's not even clear to a strong argument, you might argue that just have waves and waves of modern humans ancestors? That might sound like a silly kind I don't know if this happened before or after There was a super interesting series of papers. that actually the proportion of non-Africans That's the proportion of their DNA in our genomes like 10-20% of your ancestors are Neanderthals. and modern humans met and mixed, the Neanderthal that Neanderthals had lived in small populations from modern humans--who had lived in larger thousands of slightly bad mutations. selection to remove the Neanderthal ancestry. the mixture process. There's now overwhelming actually count your ancestors, if you're of Neanderthals say, 70,000 years ago, it's not going Maybe the right way to think about this is for example, that is just encountering waves and of them that over time it stays Neanderthal. It and more modern human. Eventually it gets taken This is what happens to northern European but they are intact on the male line. Culturally trying to be politically correct, I'm just where this happens, for example in elephants. smaller of the two species of elephants in Africa, lines that are very intact over a long period of are the bigger elephants in eastern and southern But their mitochondrial sequences are forest elephants. The interpretation of this is that bulls from the savanna coming into populations in waves and waves of an intact forest population. which is passed in the maternal line. are modern humans. Maybe they're Neanderthals who We were talking earlier about how small of Eurasia was, a couple thousand people. We were whole history of humanity has been. Was there some that "modern," civilization--greater population forth--would not have happened except for some even if that one tribe didn't do it, some other other tribe of humans from Africa hadn't done sophistication that they would have done it? I random does "primate to civilization" feel? Does path? Or was it the trend across many different I don't know. It's very speculative. I'm very groups that some of them would eventually this that's interesting to think about is in the Holocene in different parts of the world. completely independent development of agriculture argue whether the East Asian and Near Eastern but maybe you could argue they knew about each could argue they somehow knew about what was going didn't. Certainly the Americas one was isolated. independent evolutions of full-blown agriculture the ice age. This makes you think that it's setup of characteristics at this time causes previous period of stable climate before the last not as good as the last 10,000 years." It's tempting to think that some sort of characteristics are in place and seeded such that when the reemergence happens it Because it happens so fast. It's of thousands of years after the ice age. Agriculture is very old in the Americas. old was it? Before that, at least some branches Neanderthals split off even before that. right? To the extent that your earlier sophistication was already evident 200,000 or should have seen agriculture before the ice age? about this personally. People say that the of millions of years. If that's true, maybe a period of warmth and stability of climate Maybe that's true. But the other way people periods of a few tens of thousands of years. is a period of warming and then there's a period is the last ice age. Then before that there's a when we sample the late Neanderthals from. cooling. Then before that, there's another stage the warm periods. We're in one now. Marine isotope last glacial maximum was marine isotope stage 2. as sophisticated as anywhere close early Sumer, Comanche, Yamnaya level or something. in a part of the world during the ice age where to tell based on modern techniques? Okay, but there's just not any evidence of them? burials in Eurasia, Africa, Australia, in the last period of warming. There are burials you interpret this as civilization, but We touched on this when we talked about confused about is that in one sense a lineage archaic humans contributed to the human gene a couple thousand people. I'm not even sure how to hang out in an area the size of Montana? revolution has been that anyone in the world again in the past. You might think that the with the people of African and European and the Americas. You might think this is unusual group in the world is the result of many mixture South Asians are the result of mixture between different as Europeans and East Asians, 4000-2000 into a relative lack of mixture since that Yamnaya and farmers and hunter-gatherers. People of early Iranians and early Levantine people each other. There's huge differences amongst East and East Asians. There are profound differences come together to form groups that we have data You think about any one lineage today, any people's ancestors back into time and ask where time points, almost everybody's ancestors distributions that are not all in the same place. is based on an assumption, a kind of inertial Africa because Africa is the center of archaeological evidence, it's not incredibly we have many early branches from Eurasia and only in Eurasia that's sampled in the DNA record, DNA that contributed to Denisovans, Neanderthals. All not in the African record. Part of that is Eurasia. Maybe there's a period when our lineage That hypothesis is out there as a possibility. change over time as more data comes up--is some map and evolves over time. Maybe you can have You can start off with the archaic humans and go because this is a global event. It's not just an you can just see different populations splitting that sort of animation, that would be very useful. animations like this in some ways. But one way in being too interested in yourself. This to be interested in your own history and important compared to other people's history. and about where their ancestors lived two those are your great-grandparents and know where they live. Then you can actually just back in the past where your ancestors lived. ancestors going back a few generations are People do this and when you get a test back companies like 23andMe, they'll say, "Oh, you is and so on. What they're referring to is if ancestors are scattered in proportions. But then in East Africa and some Neanderthals, right? there's different time slices that matter. 30 3000 generations ago, you get the proportion not Neanderthals or Denisovans or something like around the world that live in Denisovans. If you presumably there's something similar happening. 300,000 years ago, people's ancestors It's very plausible that people's ancestors are some of them are maybe in North Africa. Some are in South Africa. Some of them are in Eurasia. That braid and that trellis is coming together back, they'll collapse. Some will go extinct, one point, there's never a singularity. Friedman's Vesuvius Challenge. I don't know the scrolls in the library at Herculaneum. 79 AD. It buried the scrolls in that library. burnt. Nat Friedman found this professor who had no way to decipher them. We just had the CT scans. there might be able to figure out a technique should look like. We just don't know what the with modern technology. So they offered a million up a CNN model to decipher these scrolls. this sort of feeling? There's something exact right technique. But if you could put it maybe somebody will come up with a There's many things in this area. I probably answer is that we need DNA from Africa. We need 200,000 years ago, from all over Africa. Because within Africa. There's archaic forms in the extremely substructured, with evidence of having which must have been different archaic forms Having that would crack our understanding of relate to the other archaic lineages we have What is it you need to get those samples? or the sediments in old caves that are well DNA to extract. We need extraction techniques that even already have them. We just need to wait until The experience in Eurasia has been when we there's been nothing, we find Denisovans. We find that breaks our understanding of the past. and a thing to reward and incentivize, would to try to understand how biological adaptation of years. We simply don't know the answer to How did modern humanity, in cognitive and other biological underpinning of the differences living relatives. We just don't know how they were. We just don't know how to interpret the I was at a talk a few years ago that was really Caltech. She was talking about being able to Monkey would be shown 2000 photographs. Her neurons in its visual cortex and learning What they would do is they would decompose into eigenvectors with the principal component particular eigenvectors. They learned the decomposition of them computationally learned a language for how that's the case. photograph to the monkey. They recorded the neurons to reassemble a photograph. It was had actually completely learned how this going through the brain representation. figure out the language of appreciation of a of it. If you look at the parallel problem of the How did we get to how we are today? How do we have let's say you asked me, "What's a simpler problem, in our brain or figuring out how to code for that if you were presented with this problem ab to represent the outside world in a brain. figuring out how to do this nearly perfectly read a genome and tell you how a person looks or terrible diseases they have, but not even that we can't actually read the genome We actually don't even know how evolution by lots of little changes pushing in some toward a different positive set point for height this by infinitesimal change of polygenicity, many That's the mathematician's bias. Or is it like Gokhman and Liran Carmel, with the voice box where up to 100% and shifts all in the same direction If you talk to neuroscientists and molecular These few examples suggest that maybe that's when adaptation really matters, is that happens? Or is it instead something simple and So what I would really like to know is if we can and archaic genomes. We now have Neanderthals and who are far enough back in time that appreciable the patterns of biological adaptation well enough we adapt to new pressures? That's something that's but it takes a different way of thinking. phenotype, there's one thing that would also be forecast AIs. How big is the information content we can obviously tell very easily how many bits it back to how many bits is it to encode the training code, then there's the hyperparameters. We know that the human genome is three fraction is protein coding. Also how do you regulation and so forth? But if you could only how big would that be? Can we compare how big code for a model is? It would give interesting We're engaging with this in some way right now the last 10,000 years with huge numbers of frequency over 10,000 years. This period of human evolution. It's well after the important environments became very different. The lifestyles where we've done an experiment of nature. A There's agriculture. There's people living more a different way, in a different type than before. set of conditions? You can actually watch all frequencies, tens of millions of them--shifting from that? We now have all the measurements. 10 million positions across the genome. traits today because they've been measured in today. What can you do with this data set? That's the type of rich data that could sort of qualitatively interesting, beyond the biology. You could go beyond the FOXP2 where you grail, or maybe that." Maybe you learned something million dollars goes to someone who can actually that's really qualitatively profound. find the million dollars first. But somebody, if if you got the idea, we can make a market here. history and human evolution. One of the really contingent, but it seems to be persistent at least that genetics have changed, culture has changed. Indus Valley civilization 4000 years ago that many of the languages which are spoken but literally the actual core myths of Hinduism it possible that for 4000 years things like caste, such high fidelity, especially in an era for half but for at least a couple thousand or 2000 years, persistent cultural heritability preserved? not a genetic one. What you see in the genetic in South Asia, almost everybody is on a gradient Ancestral North Indians and the Ancestral South exceptions are people with your last name, Patel. your last name. There's also people from Munda who them, or people who are Tibeto-Burman speakers. poles, Ancestral North Indians and Ancestral South it looks like what you see today in African higher or lower proportions of, say European and in the process of mixture, like African Americans so generations between mostly two very different What happened in India is that it froze. freezing happened 2000 to 3000 years ago. It in India is you have a three-part change. You essentially parallel to what you see in Europe. There's what's probably a farming population, Then there are these people descended at are the three primary ancestral populations. of the Harappan civilization, which ends about which we actually have sampled, they're all steppe groups and with the local hunter-gatherer which we call the Ancestral North Indians and two mixed populations form in the Gangetic plain really a very simple mixture of two sources. in the caste system. People freeze and they stop a point--which is what you see in Europe after sources happening in any one region--you see this enduringness of the caste system, you actually years, without this continuation change. to look at because of people's reluctance to traditional communities. The three steps are the then convulsive and profound mixing of groups into this static system as the caste system sets the Rigveda. You can actually see the change in I know you warned about being too it about the Patels? Why are they an exception? embarrassingly, from Houston, Texas. In the human Houston, Texas of Gujaratis in Houston, Texas. GIH. If you look at them, people are actually places. They're clustered into groups. There's group. I forgot how we figured this out. Someone Patels have their own distinctive history with Asia. It's probably some additional ancestry from Interesting. We've obviously talked about so where exactly in what field you started your in genetics. You have to touch on how your What are the inferences you can make from that? There's so many different disciplines here. topic. Do you just keep expanding? "Now I'm master anthropology. Now I'm going to..." How It's a very unstable life. In some areas like I respect tremendously, the career trajectory you dig, and you have a set of digs with similar or slowly evolving methods. When I started doing this work, one could not sequenced. We had very little genetic variation orders of magnitude every few years. What's the ability to collect ancient DNA beginning 14 of it we have. We had no ancient DNA in 2009. In genome-scale data. We have tens of thousands of data from places we didn't have data before. like me wanders into areas that I'm not expert trying to learn about the history of South at the cutting edge of learning about China or ancient Southern Europe. It's like an rank amateur in terms of a lot of the work I do. into another area, where one is an amateur and like what it's like in Silicon Valley right now. some skills to bear that are useful. You're one works with and the tremendous knowledge people and to work with other people to try to produce Somebody's doing archaeology for their entire somewhere, and then you come in. Here's the paper. explains all your research. Is the reaction can say. Are people sometimes disappointed in their field with a different technique? excited about being able to do this. Prehistory have such poor clues. True archaeologists who are super thirsty for knowledge about the time available that can probe these times, the true past get incredibly excited. They embrace it as such as scientific archaeology, such as That's been my experience with people again to know about the time periods before writing, could learn anything. They're excited Sometimes people are dug in to particular new findings that come from scientific research, opposition to some of these models, that becomes proven wrong in a number of cases, including by my hope to be someone who can welcome that. archaeologist Colin Renfrew, who is a British theory of Indo-European origins: the idea The language spoken in Armenia and in Iran and in with farming after 8500 years ago from Anatolia expansion and economic transformation associated There was a debate with Marija Gimbutas and others steppe, north of the Black and Caspian Seas. One was that steppe expansions could not have been thinner on the ground than farming expansions. even though other linguistic arguments When the genetic revolution happened with regard Indo-European origins in 2015, Colin Renfrew at this topic.&quot; In fact, the weight of evidence did come from the steppe. It's kind of maybe it's from something else. Who knows what it we learn. So this is incredibly inspiring Final question. You mentioned these different like radiocarbon dating and obviously now with something that feels like the next thing along a thousand years from now when the future AIs there's no lost period. Hopefully, they literally that basically settled Eurasia worshiped. They we're making progress. What is the next thing more samples from different parts of the world? extract DNA from ancient human remains was just didn't think we could do this. There's a was sort of my impression of what it was like. I what it would be like if one somehow could open languages that don't exist anymore, that are echoing somehow after thousands and thousands of DNA is like. It's an unexpected gift from the delicate biological molecule in fact is intact. to imagine what they are. In ancient DNA, do. There is systematic sampling from many, not yet been sampling. There is systematic deep into the past, up to the point where we can That will reveal incredible richness and forward to. There will be insights that come of individual places--places like many parts Guinea and so on--where we have essentially We'll also get insight in terms of deep time and where we really have no sampling except for That's a great place to close. David, thank you highly recommend your book, Who We Are and a lot of the stuff you learned in grade school of it is wrong. The fact that that's the case there's a new edition of the book or a new that you talked about today, which we don't a bunch of progress happening here. I'm very