Hello everyone, welcome to Lili's Kitchen. I'm Lili. I want to eat cakes. I don't have to go out to buy them . I can make them at home. It does n't require an oven. It's soft and sweet . It's more delicious than the ones I bought. Let's see how I make them. First, let's prepare 5 pieces. Eggs : It is best to refrigerate them overnight. Then prepare a large bowl and use kitchen paper towels to dry the water inside. Make sure there is no water or oil in this large bowl. After drying, break the eggs into the large bowl . 5 Eggs can be used to make a big cake. After beating them all, prepare a spoon like this. Use a spoon to scoop out the egg yolk to separate the egg yolk and egg white. During the scooping process, be sure to be gentle and do not break the egg yolk. If the egg yolk is broken, If the egg white is broken, it will be difficult to beat . Set the scooped out egg yolk aside for later use . Then cover the egg white bowl with a piece of plastic wrap and seal it. Put the egg white in the refrigerator for later use . Then add 120 grams of pure milk to the egg yolk bowl. Add 50 grams of white sugar. If you like it sweet, you can add more and stir with egg yolk until the egg yolk and milk are completely mixed together. Stir as much as possible for about two or three minutes. Finally, stir until dense bubbles appear, then add 100 grams. Grams of low-gluten flour. If you don't have low-gluten flour, you can add 80 grams of ordinary flour and 20 grams of cornstarch, and stir evenly with an egg beater. Like me, draw a z-shape and stir wherever there is dry flour. Stir as much as possible for a while and finally stir. Then add 20 grams of corn oil to the batter that is fine, smooth and grain-free . Continue to stir evenly with egg beaters. Let the oil be completely integrated into the batter. Stir for as long as possible. Finally, stir until it is fine, smooth and grain-free. Lift the egg beater. If the drippings form a line like this, you can set it aside for later use. Then prepare a rice cooker. Pour in a little cooking oil and use a brush to brush evenly. Brush the bottom and surrounding areas with cooking oil to prevent sticking . Then cover the lid and press the keep warm button. Preheat the rice cooker in advance and then refrigerate it. Take out the egg whites , peel off the plastic wrap and squeeze in a few drops of lemon juice to remove the smell of eggs. Beat the egg with a whisk at low speed, then turn it to medium speed and beat slowly. Beat it in circles like I did. Give it a minute or two to beat. When big bubbles appear, add 20 grams of white sugar and continue to beat with a whisk at low speed . Then turn to medium speed and then to high speed. Whisk until the bubbles become dense. Add 20 grams of white sugar and continue to beat with a whisk. Beat quickly, then turn to high speed and beat for another two to three minutes. When obvious lines appear, add 20 grams of sugar and continue beating. Many people are curious. Can't we add sugar in one go when beating egg whites ? The answer is no. When beating egg whites, sugar must be added in three batches. Adding sugar in batches can make the protein more stable. Adding a large amount of sugar at one time during the process of beating protein may cause the protein to be unable to be fully absorbed, thus affecting the whipping effect . Add sugar in batches. It can make the sugar gradually blend into the protein, making the protein structure more solid and less prone to defoaming. Secondly, this can better control the degree of whipping of the protein. As the sugar is gradually added, we can more intuitively observe the changes in the protein and adjust the whipping speed and time. Ensure that the egg whites reach the ideal state, such as wet foaming and dry foaming. Adding sugar in batches at the end can also make the taste of the egg whites more delicate. The evenly distributed sugar will make the egg whites smoother after being whipped, and the taste of the cake will be better. It's light and soft, and finally beat until the egg whites are lifted. Lift the egg beater until it has an inverted hook. You can also insert a chopstick into it so that it doesn't fall over. Then use a spatula to scoop out 1/3 of the egg whites and put it into the bowl of egg yolk paste. Mix it evenly using a stir or cutting method. Never stir in one direction. If you stir in one direction , it will easily defoam. After mixing well, pour the egg yolk paste into the bowl of meringue . Continue to mix it well so that the egg yolk paste and meringue are completely mixed together. Use the cutting and stirring method to mix it well . Start from the bottom and stir it. This will make it easier to mix evenly. Then stir it like a stir-fry. How about the egg white? It is not easy for frost to defoam. I teach cooking in this video every day. Could you please help me to order a free little red heart ? If I don't know how to make it next time, I can still find it. I am very grateful for everyone's support. Finally, stir it into this state and scoop it out with a spatula. Pick up a spoonful of batter and let it drip down . It will have a good accumulation effect. Just like this. Then open the rice cooker and pour all the batter into the rice cooker. Then cover the lid and shake the rice cooker to flatten the surface and create big bubbles. After it's shaken well, open the lid and sprinkle some raisins for garnish. Sprinkle some white sesame seeds for garnish. Sprinkle some dried cranberries for more flavor. Then close the lid and press the cooking function button. It will take about 40 minutes to cook. Jump to the keep warm button. Let it simmer for 5 minutes before opening the lid. Wow, it smells so good. The sweetness of the cake comes to your nostrils. Check it out and see that it doesn't shrink at all. It's very successful. Then take it out and flip it upside down on the panel. For convenience and practicality, we cut it into small pieces. I cut it into 4 parts here. When you cut it, you can feel it is very soft and delicate. After cutting it, you can enjoy it beautifully. A very delicious rice cooker cake like this is ready . The texture is super soft, just like eating marshmallows. The same kind of delicate touch makes people want to stop. Every bite makes people intoxicated with the taste of happiness. The taste is not to mention that the sweetness is just right , not too sweet , and it also exudes a rich aroma of egg and milk. Every bite is full. It's full of satisfaction. Whether it's a starter for breakfast or a sweet addition to afternoon tea, the rice cooker cake is an excellent choice. The cakes you make yourself have a unique flavor when you eat them, and they're healthy. 0 additions are delicious and don't worry. The oven can also be easily cooked. Friends who like it can quickly collect it and try it. Today's video will be shared here. Please help me to order a free little red heart for this video. If you can't make it next time, you can still find it. I 'm very grateful for everyone's support. See you in the next video