In 1962, Stan Lee and Steve Ditko introduced the character significantly younger than most Typically characters of Peter Parker's age fought crime his own way, often without assistance, or failure. He's remained one of the most popular and portrayals spotlighting how difficult it is jobs, school, relationships, financial problems, He also struggles with feelings of inadequacy, games into account, well... he might actually Today we'll look at every one them, and We'll consider how innovative they were and how much they actually have anything to a concern but, as you'll see, definitely As always, we have a few ground rules, and established for our list of Batman games. That is to say, we are excluding mobile games, one-off plug-and-play games because I don't Secondly, if the game isn't truly about That sounds like it should go without saying, marketed as "featuring Spider-Man" when ignoring those for now. We are, however, including games in which And, finally, we will not be ranking Spider-Man's don't want to. Let's rank 'em. I'm Peter, and I'm Ben from TripleJump, worst to best. #57: The Amazing Spider-Man: Web of Fire Web of Fire was released after Sega announced led to the game only having around 15,000 We're glad we aren't collectors, because be institutionalized. The game's animation and soundtrack are that Spider-Man's superpower is running Controlling him is both slippery and requires Walking really shouldn't be this challenging Spider-Man in this game also has the irritating that are a fraction of his own height, and heads that every platforming section should The first stage does end with Spider-Man punching though, so that's nice. #56: Spider-Man and the X-Men in Arcade's Game Boy, Game Gear art can't get its own title right and, sure of the Curse of the Creature's Ghost is It's not exclusively a Spider-Man game, his opening level before calmly destroying it. Spider-Man animates and controls like he's the opening bomb-deactivation stage appears as frustrating as possible. The developers included a Spidey Sense indicator like a nice touch until you realize it's left-to-right platformer without resorting The game doesn't get any better from here. Unless you turn it off, at which point the #55: Spider-Man Spider-Man, Spider-Man, does whatever a hypers...can. Yes, Spider-Man had the misfortune of appearing It was the fifth game released for the system, very last game released for the system. It comes with all of the HyperScan's predictable Maddening loading times, a reliance on scannable released - and the fact that the console Actually that's probably the HyperScan's The fact that the controls are barely responsive wonder why Spider-Man himself is the size Sorry to nitpick; we just tend to prefer it our protagonist. #54: The Amazing Spider-Man and Captain America Amiga, Amstrad CPC, Atari ST, Commodore 64, Spider-Man and Captain America are two very abilities. Don't worry, though; in this game they're The game is split into a series of one-on-one for half of the game you punch and for the Not sure who told the developers that those here we are. You control Captain America at the start, before you get to play as Spider-Man. Critics at the time didn't exactly shower few nice things to say about the way it looked Being as the game looked and sounded different hardly a recommendation for the game as a #53: Spider-Man 2 If you remember Spider-Man 2 being a good later ported to Mac. It still has some Bruce Campbell narration list as it is - but that is the only thing of the same name. This version of Spider-Man 2 is an almost surprising by the fact that much of the gameplay There was so much less to go wrong here, so Enemies spawn on the wrong plane of existence, what to do with its own physics, and characters Now let's go back to never, ever speaking #52: Spider-Man: Return of the Sinister Six We don't expect much from the Sega Game that...y'know, react to the buttons we press. Return of the Sinister Six is so stiff and has given us an unplugged controller to shut The game seems distracted, like it's trying in Normandy when the war was won but you keep Spider-Man needs to crouch to collect items, away from where the game would prefer you He can climb walls in the background, except And if you press the attack button, Spider-Man and really give it some solid consideration. Also, you only get one life. Actually, that's true outside of the game else. #51: The Amazing Spider-Man 2 It's audacious how little The Amazing Spider-Man It's as though it was built by felons who service. The story is that Spider-Man beats somebody else up, then keeps doing this until there A classic tale, we admit, but it makes for The combat and platforming manage to be even design is little more than a test of how many Enemies are grey, environments are grey, backgrounds for the colors of Spider-Man's costume, friends into thinking they went suddenly colorblind. #50: Spider-Man 3: Invasion of the Spider-Slayers First impressions are important, which is the worst first level in gaming history. We've got to admire the developers' honesty. The game starts with Spider-Man having to At least, the game calls them muggers. They aren't actually mugging anyone; they're blindly. You'll wander back and forth waiting for even longer to see if he has a gun. While you do this, children on skateboards there's a time limit and you'll have to Come to think of it, Spider-Man really shouldn't as he's not actually a spider. You know what you should be worried about, #49: Questprobe Featuring Spider-Man 64, Dragon 32, MS-DOS, MSX, ZX Spectrum installment focusing on different superheroes, Unfortunately for Spider-Man, that mercy-killing Questprobe Featuring Spider-Man existed in real difference being the quality of their As the gameplay consists entirely of text Nothing about this game is specific to Spider-Man. In fact, the entire adventure - we use the nondescript building. You explore it and solve various simple puzzles Baddies show up over the course of the game, just represent further puzzles to be solved. We will give the game credit for including With just a few keystrokes, you can convince He's nothing if not accommodating. #48: Spider-Man 2 Have you ever played Spider-Man 2 on the PlayStation the controls were worse and it was really If so, the N-Gage had you covered. Well, alright, it's not exactly the same redesigned and...made awful, to be frank. It's stiff, confusing, and has the same Loading times regularly exceed 30 seconds maximum amount of life away from those unfortunate We will say that it's genuinely impressive an N-Gage - a handheld system less powerful that it's probably most notable for being #47: The Amazing Spider-Man This is...a thing. That's about all I can say with certainty, It's a sort of...maze game? It takes place across a number of interconnected, displayed on screen. It's a bit like Manic Miner or Jet Set Willy, The game might take place in outer space. Or it could just be night time. Either way, gravity here works like it does probably doesn't matter. Spider-Man does whatever a spider can, so flipping switches and outwitting mummies. There is a story here involving Mysterio kidnapping is all it takes to realize any narrative logic fact. #46: Spider-Man: Mysterio's Menace From the muddy graphics to the repetitive that drones endlessly through every stage, for the sole purpose of giving players a Mysterio's Nothing about the game feels as though it's things, such as picking up items, feels finicky Spider-Man's moveset is almost comically health bar, ensuring you're always acutely We will give credit where it's due; the are a number of minor jumping puzzles throughout think we'd see a lot more of in Spider-Man You can also choose which level to play next replay it you'll get to hate them in a different #45: Spider-Man 2 Why is it that the great - some might even PlayStation 2 got so many terrible equivalents The answer of course is that they were handled different hardware but my question was meant The DS version of Spider-Man is a sidescrolling horrendously and look even worse. It's not the ugliest game on this list, that has had absolutely no attempt to inject Just a peekat the combat and its big, empty Unless you live in some region of the world game, we can't recommend it. And even then...it's probably best if you #44: Spider-Man and Venom: Maximum Carnage Beat-'em-ups don't need to do much in more than this. The game consists entirely of taking a few enemies to spawn; fighting them; and repeating Words cannot convey how utterly boring it It's not especially difficult, but every winding up about now, it makes sure to continue Then you shuffle forward and do exactly the over again. You can choose to play as Venom, which you'd to the game by default, but no. Same plot, same stages, same enemies. He's just a palette swap, right down to They must have been as bored making this game #43: Venom/Spider-Man: Separation Anxiety This is...uh, the same game. Like, literally the same game we just talked very, very minor tweaks. Just like Maximum Carnage, Venom Slash Spider the already boring idea of Spider-Man walking to fail to live up to even those low expectations. Once again, the fighting isn't even executed Typically brawlers will give you a little up pixel-perfectly with your enemy would be Here, though, there's no leeway. If you're just a hair too far north or south at the empty air. How in the world Acclaim had the gall to release locations and enemies - within one year #42: Spider-Man 2 If you've ever wanted to play a Spider-Man of bowling balls, this is the game for you. Everything about the experience feels clunky, from input delay or just excessively slow Perhaps it's both; the game is optimized always introducing a full second or more of Of course, maybe we're just picking nits; a Spider-Man game? It's a very glitchy experience; we got stuck a number of times. We've certainly seen worse - many times of the presentation feels just a bit off, passing a stone every time he jumps. #41: The Amazing Spider-Man As we'll see much later, the proper Amazing less intact to the 3DS. Whose idea was it then, to create a far inferior To start with the good aspects of this game, Also... actually, that's about it. Sorry for using "aspects" as a plural. That was very misleading now that I think The game rarely aspires to more than having find a key to a door, at which point you fight It's the very definition of an inessential from the fact that when you die in the game, #40: Spider-Man vs. The Kingpin Spider-Man fans had a fair number of titles Of course picking one is about as pleasant execution, but, still, variety is nice. Spider-Man vs. The Kingpin is artfully misleading. It makes you believe that your main struggle aficionado Kingpin. That's because he's a cigar aficionado an aficionado of hairless cigars. Though, to be honest, hairless cigars are Where was I? Oh, right. It's not actually Kingpin who is the main Spider-Man pops on and off surfaces that he will the game allow you to "shot web," better than he can control a sneeze. #39: Spider-Man: Edge of Time This version of Edge of Time is a platformer areas...something we'd call Metroidvania genre. The areas don't really stand out, though, game. Granted, Edge of Time has a map, which helps able to navigate by visual landmarks. Of course, the gameplay could still be fun, Then again, we're still in the dredges of the case. Enemies are too easily avoided to present easily enough with your basic attacks so the should. This is definitely the worst version of Edge in the first place. #38: Spider-Man: Friend or Foe Technically these are two different games back to back anyway, as they also share the In each version you'll combine forces with a companion or a criminal, a buddy or a bully--from way through stages that, to be frank, should It's an excellent concept for a game but at all. The DS version of the game offers a vertically move between both screens to fight baddies the requisite touch-screen minigames. Whether these things qualify as a bonus or But let's be clear: it's a drawback. #37: Spider-Man Spider-Man for the SNES opens with the 1994 can only be the acoustics of Hell. 10-hour loop when, Youtube? Anyway, Spider-Man is...not good, and it doesn't Here's a hint: He's not a walking tank. Just look at this absolute unit. Of course, a Spider-Man built like a brick...erm, a bad game. Never fear, though, because everything else For instance, objectives are needlessly obtuse. You can't smash your way through this grate. Fine. So you head off to look for some other way Instead, though, you have to destroy a completely Once you do that, the grate suddenly can be There is no logical way for a player to make a connection. Anyway, have fun with the rest of the game! #36: Spider-Man: Battle for New York Battle for New York seems to actively dare For starters, it doesn't even let you play of extremely tedious levels as Green Goblin. Don't get us wrong; playing as a supervillain a chore. You search for keys and light Bunsen burners the only stuff you'd want to do as a gigantic Admittedly you do get to punch passersby to That's good wordplay, trust me; you'll Playing as Spider-Man is more fun by default, punished by having to play as Green Goblin For a game about the inevitable collision succeeds only in convincing us we don't #35: Spider-Man: Return of the Sinister Six Return of the Sinister Six on the NES is quite notable difference that this one is playable. Spider-Man even has some additional moves the same number of buttons as the Game Gear. In addition, the hit boxes are better defined The stage design is still rather uninspired, Sandman's stage that softlocks the game On the bright side, the game does an excellent vertical, and when you punch people they explode The Master System version of the game is almost one, either. #34: The Amazing Spider-Man 2 The Amazing Spider-Man 2 was released in North if we've ever heard one. We will give it a bit of respect for trying in a bit--but it's difficult to argue that This game tasks Spider-Man with exploring objectives; it's no longer as simple as The problem is that those levels aren't rarely clear. Players will experience a lot of backtracking, frequent slowdown. Still, though, it tried, and the soundtrack #33: Spider-Man: Web of Shadows Web of Shadows exists in a few different versions, It's the sort of game you assume can't hard to prove you wrong. One very nice thing about the game is that executed. They're never fun, mind you, but they work around them. Here, Spider-Man fights anonymous baddies that allow him to access new parts of the There are multiple endings--two is a multiple--so, Also, when you die, you get to play a touchscreen It's a unique feature, because no other it. #32: Spider-Man At first glance this looks like the SNES game different, with redesigned stages, clearer All of this adds up to a much better game stretch of the imagination. Spider-Man moves a bit more fluidly here, a... sort of mound of boiled beef? The animations are also nicer, though the no clear way of telling which walls are climbable Our favorite part of this game is the death is deflating. If you would like to reinflate him afterward, mouth. #31: Spider-Man and the X-Men in Arcade's SNES it" counts as a recommendation, but so it Much like the Game Boy game of the same name, But here, at least, the opening stage is completable The Spidey Sense returns, but this time with more like Spidey Flatulence. The stage may be easier to traverse, but the Beyond that, the game opens up substantially. Spider-Man can continue on his adventure, of the X-Men (OR X-WOMEN) through their own The Mega Drive version, released the following because the Spidey Sense is now completely Possibly still deadly though, so look out. #30: The Amazing Spider-Man 2 360, Xbox One, PC series of platforms with a wide range of processing that each version looks, feels, and plays It doesn't do any of those things well, Every version suffered from glitches, technical ever stabilizing long enough for players to The critical consensus was that it was a less of previous Spider-Man titles...some of which making this big step backwards even more puzzling. The Amazing Spider-Man 2 was so disappointing, probably never be a "truly great Spider-Man how cold this one left Spidey's fans. #29: Spider-Man: Battle for New York We know it's not saying much that the DS the GBA version, but it's the most we can The animation has been improved, the controls voice acting. Not good voice acting, but that's sort of A few of the objectives make more sense than as Green Goblin actually...you know, smashing Parker's school to, uh, light candles. Spider-Man and Green Goblin have both been and because I used the word "touchscreen" for New York contains unnecessary minigames. It's an improvement, but we certainly wish #28: Spider-Man This one isn't remembered with much fondness, You scale buildings with your webbing - though Peter Parker is vomiting - and try to reach bombs. That's...pretty much it, really, but there's If a criminal in one of the many windows severs them physically, you'll get points for apprehending Grabbing bombs also nets you some points, you'll earn even more. And when you're falling, you can grab back Or you can let Spider-Man fall and break his Yeah, he's...he's never walking again. If you ever wonder how Spidey has been treated - THIS - and remember that it's better #27: Spider-Man: Friend or Foe Spider-Man is recruited by Nick Fury to seek Venom symbiote to Earth, forcing our two-legged and not-so-friendly faces from his past in That's the concept behind Spider-Man: Friend for much more. As a game however... well... It's something of an achievement to have Spider-Man's "global" adventure unfolds in total - and the combat is tedious from What's more, you never really get to use moments. Sure, their punches and kicks all look different, as characters, and Friend or Foe stands as of imagination. #26: The Amazing Spider-Man At last, a sidescroller that actually does It's not exciting or innovative in any way, see this as an absolute win. Wait... wrong Avenger... let's start again. This game isn't anything revolutionary, Spider-Man may spend most of his time slapping like he's played by Napoleon Dynamite, but and is a fair amount of fun. The best part of the game is the soundtrack also some truly enjoyable cheese. For instance, in this scene Spider-Man laments information. We'd lament right alongside you, Pete, but him any questions so, frankly, we think this #25: Spider-Man: Web of Shadows When Web of Shadows was released for the PS3, which system would get a downgraded version. What wasn't clear was what the PS2 would Would it be the faithful but less visually Or would it be the completely different, far It was, of course, the PSP version that nobody It was a good way of punishing anyone who we suppose. This version does at least pay lip service allowing players to choose between different comfort and not much of a selling point. On the positive side, players can summon 30 than the main game offers. On the less-positive side... everything else. #24: Spider-Man 3 No version of Spider-Man 3 is particularly in this statement--but the DS version is It's one of many games on this list that while punching people, and it's also one good, or controlling well. Nintendo's consoles get a lot of guff--sometimes poor, mandatory use of control gimmicks. Spider-Man 3 is one of those games, requiring enemies. The best DS games use the touch screen either Spider-Man 3 uses it constantly and idiotically. If you can adjust to the controls, you'll But the time you spend adjusting could be games on this list. #23: The Amazing Spider-Man: Lethal Foes One of the better-looking 16-bit Spider-Man yet thoroughly forgettable adventure. It's a by-the-numbers platformer slash brawler The controls are clunky and Spider-Man is It's nothing you can't adjust to, but timer means that you don't really have enough Those who are willing to stick with it and time, but we certainly won't blame anyone Lethal Foes never left Japan, which means That's fine, because no translated version Jameson shouting in Japanese about pictures I mean, it's fairly safe to assume that's #22: Ultimate Spider-Man A console Spider-Man game got a disappointing Call the Daily Bugle! I'm joking, of course; it's not surprising newspaper that only exists within the world your call. Ultimate Spider-Man is less a bad game than It looks fine, plays fine, and sounds fine, The Venom stages are welcome--there's something LIFE OUT OF INNOCENTS on a Nintendo handheld--but puzzles with unclear solutions...basically One nice detail is that while playing as Spider-Man as Venom you focus on the bottom. That's the most creativity demonstrated #21: Spider-Man 3 There's little about Spider-Man 3 on the it is at least a competently made little adventure. It's a decent timewaster, but nothing we On the negative side, the fighting could do Also, a few moves that should be basic - such uncomfortable fingerings (quiet back there) (I said quiet back there.) The puzzles, such as they are, also don't open the next passage. On the bright side, though, there are some that takes place atop moving vehicles. You can also upgrade Spider-Man with permanent feel of progression. But if you have a Game Boy Advance, you can For instance... #20: Spider-Man Many Spider-Man games paint our hero as a to the character. In fact, Spider-Man's lack of brutality the vicious Kraven the Hunter has replaced Yes, Spider-Man physically beating people normal behavior that it should serve as a Spider-Man for the Game Boy Advance, though, The bulk of the game is designed around swinging, It's one of only a few games on this list as opposed to "How can we put Spider-Man The boss fights can be quite annoying, with against The Vulture, for instance, but it's attention than it gets. #19: Spider-Man 2 The PSP version of Spider-Man 2 has ambition, It was never going to handle the large, freely 2 version, but it attempts to retain at least Smaller, more limited open-world segments It doesn't scratch the same itch as the The rest of the game consists of 2D and 3D suited to handling, but those little glimpses parts. The game is a bit too short, a bit too easy, it's not terrible. Which isn't saying much, I know, but we're actually good now and I'd just like to move #18: Spider-Man As the Play-Station, Nintendo 64, and Dreamcast adventure, developer Vicarious Visions decided Miraculously, it's a pretty darned good It sounds great - enjoy the chiptuned version menu - and looks genuinely impressive in That would of course matter very little if Sort of. For the most part. Maybe. Spider-Man controls fluidly, with clean movements He's even able to swing in a far more satisfying Color. The bad news is that his jumping is an annoyance; you press A, Castlevania-style, making Spider-Man And unless you rely on projectile combat, fighting quickly. Still, those small complaints would be resolved #17: Spider-Man 2: The Sinister Six The fighting is better, the jumping is better, rather than just press it to swing from webs, the experience feel more dynamic. Also, the boss fights are improved and if Peter Parker a chance to concentrate, his your objective is. It's a smart and organic in-game hint system large levels here, which are designed to give The Game Boy Color was not a powerful system, fun would be far beyond its capabilities. This thing has open-world sections, for crying It's not a game that will change your life, for what this little handheld could achieve. #16: Spider-Man 2: Enter Electro Enter Electro isn't great, but it's also It's just mediocre, stuck between two much Spider-Man PS1 from the year previous, and later. Compared to both of those games, Enter Electro It looks really great for a PS1 game, and himself controls like he's in the late stages lifeless. There could be a reason for that latter fact, the September 11 terrorist attacks brought figured prominently in the game's original How much those understandable changes affected the developers definitely had to stitch things certainly feels that way. #15: Spider-Man 3 One thing we appreciate about Spider-Man 3 to the film of the same name, it puts forth of its own, using unique characters. One thing we don't appreciate about Spider-Man Okay, that's a bit harsh, but the game is should be. It was developed by Treyarch--the same developer their heart wasn't in it or they all suffered they were doing. The controls are less precise, the camera animations represent a huge step backward. It has enough in common design-wise with its complete waste of time, but we definitely rather than turning in a lesser imitation #14: Spider-Man: Edge of Time Spider-Man and Spider-Man 2099 team up to accomplish by... beating people up and collecting So, almost exactly the same as most other coined the phrase "quantum causality" Or perhaps they coined it to trick people than it actually was. What happens in Edge of Time is what happens in the past affects the future, but in Edge You control one version of Spider-Man performing what changed. Not very exciting stuff. It's repetitive, and critics griped rightfully Parker. Even the opportunity to play as two different since Shattered Dimensions, released the previous #13: Ultimate Spider-Man The Game Boy Advance excelled at comic-book-style that strength perfectly. It looks and sounds great, and gives Spider-Man and combat, making it feel suitably specific And while it's nice to see a game that captures nicer to see one that captures his specific Spider-Man can go head to head against his take a beating in the process. At least, that's the case unless you fight Peter Parker's strengths are in his agility, must. It's a great design choice that forces you pound away at buttons. It's also fun...something that really shouldn't some of the other nonsense on this list. #12: Spider-Man: Shattered Dimensions The DS version of Shattered Dimensions will the main console game... and, actually, that's But it does deserve at least some degree of This version completely reimagines the experience handheld systems have nearly always handled Unfortunately, this version of Shattered Dimensions the console version famously brought four has only three, leaving out Ultimate Spider-Man It's also extremely short, clocking in at Still, the combat is good and if you're is an easy recommendation. #11: Spider-Man: Web of Shadows In the majority of these games, it's Spider-Man's And, that's good because it's sort of In Web of Shadows, however, tragedy has already New York is infested with symbiotes. He and others - not all of them friendly with the odds stacked massively against them. It's a moodier and more atmospheric approach, It even ties into the gameplay, with Spider-Man's for battle and an example of the darkening From a narrative standpoint, this could have Unfortunately, the narrative is all that the The morality system that was central to the gameplay and objectives get repetitive quickly, symbiotes considering how uncooperative it Fans should seek it out, certainly, but they live up to its own high promise. #10: Spider-Man vs. The Kingpin Spider-Man vs. The Kingpin is not much in an impressive amount of grace in Spider-Man's climbing buildings. He's a bit less impressive on the ground, the character, and it encourages players to made him famous. Whenever you need a break from kicking seven take photos of them for extra cash... a long There are also smaller crimes you can stop It's a nice way to actually portray the Spider-Man" as opposed to "some video New York one by one." If you're looking for an early console game as a character, this is the one to seek out. #9: Spider-Man 3 We're as surprised as you are that the version is better than the one released for the PS3, Here, the rival gangs fight for control of claim it back...a nice way of feeling as though You earn the black suit much earlier in this or less at will. Weirdly, even the cutscenes look better here. Whether or not they look good is a matter polygons fit together. Without question, the city feels far less but that tradeoff leads to a smoother experience. Is this version of Spider-Man 3 much better Or is the HD version just that much worse? #8: The Amazing Spider-Man 360, PC to the film, The Amazing Spider-Man is destined It should also, however, be of interest to of the ideas in this game would be refined This includes the faux social-media feed that and costumes from Spidey's history, and combat from Rocksteady's Arkham series. And before anyone gets upset with us for drawing cited Arkham Asylum and Arkham City as direct The 3DS and Wii ports are largely the same coming in the controls and the lack of an Because, hey, who wants an open-world in a We can't imagine that ever catching on. #7: Spider-Man The earliest Spider-Man game most people remember Making the necessary allowances for the early well. The web-slinging is smooth, Spider-Man's - by esteemed video-game composer Tommy Many of the voices from the 1990s Spider-Man and there's even narration by some weird, Hmm. Wonder who that guy is... The Nintendo 64 version has improved loading the FMVs and a significant chunk of music The Dreamcast version got better models and way to go if you're one of the 11 people #6: Spider-Man Often referred to as Spider-Man: The Movie, The game shines its brightest when Spider-Man exploring bits of New York that honestly look of the time. In fact, it's worth spending as much time of freedom, as the game itself is quite short, It also however, has a fairly terrible camera, sections is nightmarish, but those things a game that clearly had a lot of love invested Of course, just about any complaint is balanced in the tutorial though - a role he'd reprise #5: Spider-Man: The Video Game Sega's 1991 Spider-Man arcade game is still It's a relic from the golden age of arcade Its visuals are great, its combat satisfying, the experience from growing stale. It supports up to four players, as well, which Black Cat, Hawkeye, and Sub-Mariner are the with their own attacks and abilities. Unlike some of this game's contemporaries and X-Men for instance - Spider-Man: The in nostalgic reverie. That's unfortunate, because it deserves #4: Ultimate Spider-Man With the possible exception of the PS4 game, of any game on this list. That shouldn't be surprising, as Brian Michael comic--wrote this game. As a result, the characters are true to themselves, universe. That's nice and all, but it wouldn't matter Fortunately, it's not. Players control either Spider-Man or Venom feel unique. Additionally, the stylized graphics have aged voice acting is surprisingly strong. Ultimate Spider-Man isn't celebrated as worth a spin. Which is what a spider does. It spins webs. Please clap. #3: Spider-Man: Shattered Dimensions When Shattered Dimensions was announced, anticipation Not one, not two, not three, not five, but single game, each with their own worlds, mechanics, It was either going to be too ambitious for the best Spider-Man games ever made. Miraculously, it ended up being the latter. How the developers of the Bee Movie game came comprehend. After a battle with Mysterio in which Spider-Man of the most villainous thing in this game Amazing Spider-Man, Ultimate Spider-Man, Spider-Man The adventure that follows is uneven, admittedly, creative it is. #2: Spider-Man 2 For a small group of fans, Spider-Man 2 is We respectfully disagree, but we do understand web-slinging adventure. It was the very first game to get the feeling giving us the truly enjoyable open-world experience Taking off the nostalgia goggles we can admit gracefully and the combat is largely mindless, enjoyment of the game all these years later. The city is still impressive in its size and a hero, swinging down from the rooftops to hospital, or simply deliver some pizzas. It says a lot that Spider-Man 2 remained untouched long. All the way, actually, until 2018. #1: Marvel's Spider-Man It really had to end this way, didn't it? The PlayStation 4-exclusive Spider-Man is The exploration, the combat, the voice acting, the entire game is littered with things to have dedicated videos to doing nothing but We've seen bigger open worlds, but very and this alive. And that's just the superficial stuff! The moment-to-moment gameplay is every bit Whether that's getting joyously lost while crime, meeting adoring fans, or just swinging together into the definitive Spider-Man experience. And Insomniac deserves massive credit for for Spider-Man rather than simply lifting The games share a lot of DNA, but it's impossible at home here, and at one with the stellar Marvel's Spider-Man isn't just the best games of all time. And there you have it: every Spider-Man game Do you have a personal favorite you think Do you there were any high entries that should've If you could be bitten by something radioactive, Let us know in the comments below. Also, if you have suggestions for other "Every us a shout. If we like your idea, we just might pretend You can follow TripleJump on Twitter here, the things you enjoy by having a look at our Finally, don't for get to like the video, to the channel. I'm Peter, and I'm Ben from TripleJump,