In my last video we covered Sega's most famous with it, Sega's early years. So for their epic 16 bit console we're going the Mega Drive really began to form. As we know, Sega had been in the arcade business the industry was looking a little shaky to However keen to stay ahead of the technological just released the Sega System 1. This was an adaptable hardware board used and 1987 including Choplifter, Flicky, Pitball In 1985 the board was updated to the Sega predecessor. Both of these boards were based on the 8 bit Sega Master System. Although the arcade boards had one dedicated chips including the Sega 315-5011 GPU, sprite The hardware allowed Sega to release some 80s, the arcades were the source of cutting home equipment to start catching up. Sega's cutting edge solution was the Sega use of a Motorola 68000 CPU, along with an for sound working alongside a Yamaha YM2151 This new powerful hardware powered experiences and Dynamite Dux. Although Sega had sold North American arcade machine manufacture was still their backbone, But as we know, Sega weren't blind to the with Nintendo's Entertainment System. In 1987 they managed to find some footing the Sega Master System. Early sales looked good in the region if a But it was enough to solidify Sega's belief Sega had sunk their claws into Europe and bit hardware, they were too late to rival North America. The obvious strategy was to head onwards and They needed to go all out and this time; be console that could blow the Entertainment Nintendo could keep their 8 little bits. Sega were about to double it. Sega weren't a company to pause. Having launched the SG1000, SG1000-II, Mark had already begun on the next generation of by Masami Ishikawa with Hideki Sato as the In October 1987 NEC in collaboration with fanfare, the same time Sega's re-packaged The PC Engine's technical ability over even the PC Engine's Hudson Soft HuC6280 CPU was bit graphics processor and many advanced features This further solidified Sega's motives to place, their System 16 arcade hardware. The new system's board would be built around Like the Sega 16 board, it was decided a Zilog by the 6 channel Yamaha YM2612 FM synthesiser This combination also allowed backwards compatibility not the Japanese Master System's FM sound 72kB of RAM was provided, alongside 64kB of The YM2612 based Video Processor is an evolution It allowed a palette of 512 9 bit RGB colours, This could be tripled through shadow and highlight palette swaps. The hardware can accommodate a maximum of a total overscan of 423x624. Multiple multi direction scrolling routines a total of 80 on screen sprites. Very early models had 9 pin DIN AV out, but DIN allowing stereo sound via. the front audio jack. Like the Master System an edge connector was system can be fed from the same power supply As for the control pads. Well, they're 3+1 buttons of absolute glory. Looks at those curves. Makes me weak at the knees just looking at And the case design. Well. Ooooooh yeah. It's like one of Batman's gadgets. And we're talking Michael Keaton batman, not The design allowed for some impressive System Initially named the Mark V, the initial prototypes in the June 1988 edition of Beep! magazine, to convey the new, impressive abilities of on Mega Drive to try and best the already Launching on 29th October 1988 in Japan, the Nintendo had launched Super Mario 3 just 1 with that bloody plumber rather than Sega's However the coverage the console received The only problem was it's rivals. The Famicom was still immensely popular, but would soon take a third of the total video This was assisted by some rather impressive in, this actually included some licenced Sega Still Sega's plan of releasing arcade follow one. Allowing a natural flow from the arcade into 2 and Super Thunderblade available from the Compared to the Famicom and PC Engine however, Despite it's impressive capabilities, the in it's first year on home territory. Various bizarre and somewhat niche peripherals the Sega Mega Anser, a complete online banking was even adapted back to an arcade format, But thankfully this was never really about Sega moved quickly, they could get ahead of As 1989 came around NEC were set to launch TurboGrafx 16, drawing attention to it's semi This pushed Sega on to announce an initial months after the Japanese launch. Originally Sega tried to convince Atari to With the Master System still in the hands have appropriate networking facilities in David Rosen, who was then Vice President of president Michael Katz who was interested money, with Jack Tramiel more interested in However, this negotiation was not fruitless for the US machine, required due to the Mega Systems inc, a producer of digital storage The name chosen would be one of Atari's suggestions; Deemed appropriate given the somewhat Christian to starting something new. Sega would launch the console via it's reduced a revised and limited launch occuring on 14th Sega of America's staff numbers were quickly Katz was poached from Atari to come on board The TurboGrafx-16 would launch around the going to be close. In fact, Nintendo's president Hiroshi Yamauchi company and was far more concerned with NEC's into marketing and had a whopping PS3.7 billion However, neither of them fully accounted for from the go. Sega had learnt from their Master System years as the pack in game, a worthy conversion of Nintendo's 8 bit console was still selling but an ever increasing thirst for an extended becoming ever more present. Machines like the Amiga and Atari ST models for the consumer. At $189, the Genesis was affordable, at only 16 bit power. The only problem was Sega needed some killer Sega of Japan had made the pretty unpopular differing release dates and prevent game importing. However, alongside Altered Beast, a number were made available throughout 1989 with the the year was out. However Nintendo still had quite a tight grip deals were preventing some third party publishers issues for both Sega and NEC. However, like Nintendo, Sega had adopted the had to pay a royalty to publish on their machine. Some might describe this as ensuring only might call it shameless money making which machines Thankfully for Sega, Trip Hawkins, founder landed in Japan and imported one to EA's labs. Their plan was to reverse engineer the hardware licensing costs. EA had already refused to publish for the licensing contracts, but with Sega there was After almost nailing the hardware, Hawkins they'd publish without their consent otherwise. Given that Sega needed software and had already endorsement to oust Nintendo's exclusive rights, the hat seemed the perfect match. A $2 million licencing fee cap deal was arranged Battle Squadron and Budokan: The Martial Spirit like John Madden Football following later Rather than requiring Sega to build the cartridges, manufacturing process, allowing for the little with on their games. It would later transpire from EA Creative managed to circumnavigate all Sega's lock From this point Nintendo bound companies such Nintendo to rip up it's exclusive licensing and developers more a more liberal roam on The Genesis software collection was starting with it's existing Japanese software line obscure omission of a second controller port Combined with the Genesis sound and graphics, resemble children's toys and the 16 bit console the first 6 months. But Sega wanted something big. Nakayama set the goal of 1 million before Michael Katz had held the regins well, even which proved somewhat controversial to the marketing was not in the culture, but Sega to hammer a pin into America and make sure This mid 1990 invigoration would come in the Tom realised there was still a large hill System and had observed that software support After settling in, one of his first move was also revised around this time - one of the the hardware, including the removal of the devices, which could make use of MegaNet - a titles. Various PCB iterations were also rolled out. You may notice that the first Genesis and around the edge. Later models removed this and some of these Original models also don't show the &quot;Under This was added in to try and stamp out unlicensed cartridges to display the Sega name and there-by it appeared without Sega's authority. However a subsequent case against Accolade an official licencee. Any way, I've gone off track slightly. Back to Kalinske. As well as reducing the system price, he also really fit with the Godly Genesis image and Sega had learnt about company mascots the since 1985, and although Alex Kidd had helped the need for something new and fresh that A company wide contest was launched which Needlemouse, sporting red sneakers and accompanied A tech demonstration was created by Yuji Naka a winding tube, and when combined with Mr. hedgehog was born. His colouring was changed to match the Sega Michael Jackson had worn. After witnessing this little guy, Tom knew Sega of America's executives who apparently was. Kalinske pushed Nakayama to have Sonic as who felt their most impressive title should free, but was given free reign to do as he Sonic was launched on June 23rd 1991 as both A US based team was also established to create and the aggressive marketing campaigns were notched up a gear. This was a good thing, because whilst this The first was that the Sega Mega Drive would where the Master System had faired well, such in the hands of TecToy and in the key area by Virgin Mastertronic who successfully trumped Thankfully Master System owners could still Master System Converter, allowing cartridges hardware. These region launches brought a wave of existing launch platform for a swathe of already loyal 8 bit home computer owners who were starting the tooth. Perhaps even more importantly than this, the Japan at this point, on 21st November 1990. Poised to compete not only with the Mega Drive Famicom console. However, unlike the Mega Drive, Loyal Famicom of the new hardware with the next installment units sold within hours leading the Japanese to schedule future console releases at weekends As you can imagine, this sent shock-waves Nintendo despite their 2 year head-start. But back in Europe and the States, things News of the Super Famicom had traveled fast, screens (even in 50Hz European regions). People were not only amazed at the graphical They were enamored by the character himself, pitching their machine as cool - even paying - compared to Nintendo's almost childlike This tactic, along with bundling Sonic as in fact that by the time the somewhat boxy August 23rd 1991 for a reasonable $199, kids A Sony focus group found that teenage boys and the Genesis continued to outsell the SNES Amazing titles like F-Zero and of course Super held the definite advantage. Christmas 1991 would see Sega outsell Nintendo a row, holding a much larger library of games NES. Sega would buy out Virgin Mastertronic this the first time. The Super Nintendo, back in it's Japanese 1992, and was met with a similar, if even Over here, the Mega Drive didn't even have being the Atari ST and Amiga. But the lower cost ensured that it quickly However this would also be the year the SNES Arcade classics like Final Fight were released, Sega had already launched the arguably better The first real blow would be the release of year before the Genesis would see it's own The amazing Mario Kart was also launched just to go into full operation... Blast Processing was the ingenious result of Sega's that you could pull some nifty tricks with Senior Producer Scot Bayless then mentioned data int the DAC's&quot;; a reference to how the the graphics processor at high speeds, allowing colour static images. The Mega Drive's 68000 CPU also had a much WDC65816 processor at 7.6MHz to 3.58MHz, chosen titles, but unable to be successfully implemented. This is why the SNES was bolstered with an meant Sega had something to wedge their pick You might think this is all marketing speel, of EA acknowledges that the Mega Drive was Of course the Super Nintendo had various custom offering impressive scaling and scrolling in the very game they were panning.... but With 1992 drawing to a close and Blast Processing banter, Sega could claim to hold an impressive and for every Nintendo game in total, 1.4 Sonic Two was released on Tuesday November Mario 3 style, received even more impressive Revenues stood at some $700 million, but yet a fifth of Nintendo's. Nintendo even started exaggerating their console better, which makes comparisons harder but install base was some 4 million at this point But Nintendo was a fighter and now had a huge the PC Engine, with the Western Turbographx Sega and Nintendo were locked into a furious Whatever one company did, the other would The Nintendo Super Scope was swiftly followed lacked a compelling selection of games, it over and argue about in playgrounds. Sega were again eager to get one up on Nintendo, but rather than a new console, that fear would Released in Japan in December 1991 and now Sega CD. When it arrived, it was a pretty exciting games which looked like actual movies. But, this is a case where reality often fell Although the Sega CD was a master-class in limited by the Genesis 16 bit bus and limited Data just couldn't be shuffled around fast in the play-ability factor, and many titles However there were some stand out games such over the Super Nintendo port. The main problem was the expensive price tag even justify for the games available. Technology was starting to get cheaper and were starting to enter the 16 bit market. To help with this, clones, both the official to appear.... Along with these bootlegs, systems like the Mega CD with the Mega Drive in one sleek package. There were even IBM PC Compatibles incorporating Mega PC released in 1993 and modelled on the These machines attracted a niche audience, out of date and the hefty price tags didn't one bad. Sonic the hedgehog actually had a better brand this point and Sega even had plans to be bigger parks in Japan and America. But the Mega CD may have been the point the signs of receding, very slightly. By 1993 Sega America had 700 staff, with $3.6 staff and gross salaries of $813 million in a longer distance to fall. Still the 16 bit industry wasn't slowing down as the Atari Jaguar or Amiga CD32, thanks dwindling cost of the model 2 hardware. Released as the Mega Drive 2 in Japan &amp; Europe America. The Mega Drive 2 was sold at a discounted design. Alongside the revised detail colouring, red in Japan, the system lost the front audio 9 pin A/V port, although allowing stereo) audio mixing and quality even further than Thankfully, Europeans would still be able the Master System Converter 2. 1993 was also the year the Mega CD made it also the year, the new, flatter, cheaper Mega where Mega CD hardware was price reduced quite confidence somewhat. The UK especially was the region where the offering direct competition to the Mega CD's The Mega Drive had some sold 30 million consoles would mark the point I obtained my own piece traction. Given that Sega already dominated across most Sega marketing against Nintendo and so the heads at an ever increasing rate. In fact, we hadn't even heard of blast processing Our playgrounds were awash with kids holding frequencies rather than canned marketing slogans. The arrival of Street Fighter II Championship of playground arguments and disputes and although the Mega Drive was still very clearly holding Even the issue of only having 4 buttons compared of 6 button pads flooding into shops. But Sega was still thoroughly leading the Games like Night Trap on the Mega CD and Mortal a well distributed code caused uproar among the Videogame Rating Council for all it's Over in the UK Night Trap was given a 15 film Nintendo on the hand towed the family friendly with sweat and removing fatalities for more Nintendo's family friendly line certainly new market of the older generation who hadn't With this new market neatly carved out, the Sony had already attempted to work with Nintendo face had also approached Sega. Given their knowledge obtained from the Mega however Sega executives declined and Sony Sega of Japan were working on their own next something was needed to fill the gap. Rather than having faith in their existing consumer electronics show was a product of Fear of Nintendo, far of Atari's Jaguar and Keen not to lose their hardware dominance, was key despite the shortcomings of the Mega Technically it was somewhat similar to their allow the massive Mega Drive market to jump jumping ship before the Saturn's arrival. Like the Mega CD, third party development release in Japan at around the same time. The 32X would sell some 665,000 units by the with a weak library of just 40 titles. 1994 would also see the release of the Sega incorporated the Mega Drive and Mega CD into But oddly it retailed at $399.95 in the US, and Sega CD and what's more, doesn't work shock issues! Whilst Sega were faffing about with Hardware, as much out of their 16 bit machine as possible. Titles like Donkey Kong Country arriving in the system's abilities with pre-rendered 3D This was platforming on a whole new level, it could do just as well with games like Toy were now almost 50/50 between Sega and it's The incorporation of Sega's Virtua Processor breaking and even though it retailed for $100 awe inspiring game on the increasingly dated Something Nintendo had cottoned onto years various cartridge games. February 1994 also brought around Sonic 3. Regarded as the last &quot;good&quot; Sonic game by Mega Drive, despite a few last hurrahs. Even the Doom craze failed to escape the Mega Tolerance and Bloodshot popping up to rival The Super Nintendo would outsell the Mega 1997, with the Mega Drive officially discontinued be sold as the Genesis 3 via. Majesco in North America up until the end The Super Nintendo hung on a little longer, the Mega Drive will still stand at almost The Sega Saturn released in the West in 1995 in Japan, fell prey to the new player entering had declined to work with....... Sony. But that's a story for another day. One thing the Mega Drive touched before most I briefly covered the Japanese Meganet, which America also witnessed it's own &quot;Sega Channel&quot;, games amongst news and cheat codes. It lasted until July 1998 and was quite pricey we take as granted now days. At it's peak the channel had some 250,000 Which isn't too shabby at all for an online It wasn't the only thing Sega were ahead of Their Console VR system, which made it into was scrapped for the Mega Drive release. Kalinkse cited that it induced motion sickness that it was &quot;just too realistic and people another 20 years to really get a handle on The Genesis Nomad was released in October Genesis entertainment. It had a solid library of games and could Sega had over reached themselves and just 32X, Genesis, Game Gear and another handheld were frowned upon by Sega of Japan who preferred Most were quickly dissipated to make way for However, just like the Master System. This was far from the end for the Mega Drive. Numerous, possibly countless iterations of be released to present day, from 6 in one like the Master System was well received in A port of Duke Nukem 3D landed on Brazils person experience, especially for 10 year &quot;Mega Drive Guitar Idol&quot; in 2009 - in your This iteration also features some Electronic City!! There were even further cartridge releases by Super Fighter Team, a conversion of the Super Fighter team also released Legend of bringing Pier Solar and the Great Architects In 2009 some console on a chip variants were with their Firecore able to play original There' also the countless Mega Drive game of Sega as the game churning - both good and Just last week Tec Toy announced a limited an additional SD slot and 22 bundled games. It appears this well loved machine just refuses The Mega Drive, Genesis, whatever you want and most inspiring consoles ever produced. It's hardware and the games which ran on it go on to do great things for rival machines day. The console war between Nintendo SNES is one and it's those playground debates and the ensure they continue to be discussed to this