- In front of me, I have They've got these beautiful crust. You can't smell 'em but I We all know you can't so let's have a peek inside. So both of these strip steaks looked great on the outside, but cut 'em open, and what you see is this It's got that ring of gray meat that's overcooked, dry. It's just not what you want. This one, however, looks fantastic. It's nice and rosy from edge to edge. You're thinking, this you reverse seared it, right? We love our reverse sear, but I didn't use that this time around. I didn't bother with a sous I used a method that was This steak was cold-seared. (upbeat music) Before we get into cooking steaks, let's talk about our goals here. What we want is a really great browning, a good crust, that's where a lot of the flavor is. We also want the center to I shoot for 125, 'cause I You like your steaks cook a little more, take 'em a little higher. There's also the bonus points. I want a method that is quick. I want a method that doesn't make a mess. And I don't wanna use (upbeat music) So I came up working in restaurants and I learned how to cook a steak with a very traditional method. My chefs would have me put put a good amount of oil in there, crank the heat, and wait So when the pan is hot lots of smoke, the steak goes in. And the thing they all tell You get to flip it once, just once. Let's be honest, everyone peeks to make sure it's time to flip. What's happening, it's You're getting a lot of Maillard browning. Once you get great you flip it over. Again, you wait and By then, the steak is mostly cooked. It's pretty close. You slip it in the oven, And you're just waiting for the center to hit 125 or 130, whatever It's fast. You don't need special equipment. The crust it puts on a steak is fantastic. They look gorgeous. So the cons for this It's kind of actually really messy, and you're gonna trash your skillet. And it's gonna take a lot of And you might wanna have a pull the batteries out It's not great. But even worse, if you cut into the steak, what you're gonna see around a rosy center. As you're cooking the meat, you're pumping a ton of and that heat will slowly work cooking the steak, which is what we want, but because it takes so long to do that, you end up overcooking the edges and that's why you get that gray band. Even professionals have a So enter sous vide. (upbeat music) Now, short digression. I was a chemistry major And it was really weird and see lab equipment floating around. There were these immersion circulators, which are these machines at very specific temperatures. And they were being used in the kitchen. What they were being used Now, sous vide means under vacuum. And what's happening is sticking it in a bag, and then you drop that And then you wait, you wait some more, maybe a couple more hours, But over time, the water so that it is at the After it gets there, you out of the bag, pop it in a pan, and give it a quick sear on each side. You build up a great so you're not making much of a mess. It's pretty great. But, you know, there are You have to invest in and they can be pricey. You're going through a to cook your meat. Takes up some space on your counter and it's gonna take up between 1 1/2 to three hours. You compare that to a traditional method, that takes 10 minutes. It's a big time investment. Sous vide cooking is great but it wasn't always Restaurant chefs could afford on chemistry lab equipment, but you weren't doing that at home. Back in 2007, Kenji for &quot;Cook's Illustrated&quot; based on this hack of sous vide cooking. And he dubbed it the reverse-sear. Here's how it works. (upbeat music) Take the steaks, pop put that rack on a rimmed baking sheet, and stick the whole setup You wait for 20, 25 minutes. And what you're looking for is the center of that steak to hit 90 to 95 degrees. After that, you take them out, put them in a skillet and And that sear doesn't it's taking the steaks up So you need to make sure both while they're in the oven and then again when you're searing to make sure that they don't overcook. So the reverse sear method will get you what you can get with sous You won't need to have for it, which we love. But on the downside, you do have to use a couple and you do need to heat your oven. So with a reverse-sear, we're getting closer to what we want. How do we shave off even more time? Enter cold-searing. (upbeat music) The only piece of for cold-searing is I've got a strip steak here. And you can use any steak you want. Boneless steaks are ideal. The key is to make sure your I'm gonna pat this steak dry. I wanna get rid of all the Next up, I'm going to pepper this steak, looking for maybe about 1/2 You can kind of do this to taste. (pepper grinder whirring) What I'm not doing is salting this. I'll salt this later with If you want and you have you can salt this guy or up to a day in advance, The important bit is right before cooking. Salting draws out moisture, So next up, we sear. We've got my cold pan, All right, let's get cooking for real. I've got the heat set to high, and I'm not worried about the fact that I'm in a non-stick skillet at all. The meat is gonna suck and I'm gonna turn it down pretty soon. We need to heat up that skillet. And I wanna start driving that's on the surface of the steak so that we can get good browning. (meat sizzles) So what I'm hearing is Some of the juices are The fat is rendering out of here as well. And that sizzling is the water, starting to get driven off by the heat. We're gonna cook the steak in its own fat. There's plenty of fat in here. It's more than enough. It also limits the amount out of the pan and keeps this really neat. Now it's just a matter of waiting for this side to fully heat up for more of that fat to render out. It's been two minutes. Let's give it a flip Great, okay, don't worry. There's no browning, and that's We're not trying to get all because it's actually easier to build up layers of color as we cook. So I'm just gonna let this for another two minutes on this side. We're gonna do the same thing to the second side of the steak. So this first four minutes and just letting the think of it as setting You're getting fat out of that steak, it's gonna be really flavorful, and you're searing your meat. You're also pulling those juices out. Those juices have the you need to build a beautiful crust. As those juices cook down they can't stick to the pan. So they're gonna stick to the steak and that's what helps us build a beautiful, beautiful surface. Two minutes has passed. Give this another flip. Now what I wanna do is reduce the heat. What I'm looking for here is a nice medium and I'm not just looking for it, I'm listening for it as well. What I wanna hear is this gentle sizzle. I don't want like a really I also don't wanna see any splatter. I don't want to see any smoke coming up 'cause that means we're and a little too fast. The meat that's just below the surface is picking up a ton of We want to let some of that so that the steak is cooking, but we want the rest of that because if it hangs out there and that's when the gray band develops. Every two minutes, what Look at that, we're This is great. Still not a ton of drama. We're slowly building And the heat that got built while this side was touching the pan, some of it is dissipating into the air. The rest of it is moving None of it is staying and turning the meat gray, and (meat sizzles) Nice, I am four minutes And sometimes, depending on and how thick your This does not feel done to me. If you've got an especially large steak, it could take up to another six minutes, 10 minutes total cooking at medium heat. So keep an eye on it. Check it with your thermometer as you go and it'll take as long as it takes. One of the things I like about this method is I'm kind of fidgety. I don't like looking at my And it's totally fine If there're a little patches of fond, you can kind of mop 'em up with the steak so they stick to the (meat sizzles) Yes. (meat sizzles) I love watching that crust kind There's something so satisfying about it. If I were searing a regular steak, my hands could not be right here. It would be way too hot This method is so neat. Makes clean up a snap. I'm about seven minutes in. It is feeling firm, which is a good sign that you should kind of start picking up the thermometer and checking. I don't like to go straight down. It's really hard to figure Instead, I come in from the side. And to make sure I don't I'll kind of like mark and then just stick the thermometer in until my thumb hits the meat. We are at 125. Let's get this out of Like all seared steaks, this If you slice into them right away, the juices are really and they're gonna flow right out of there. By resting it, they kind of slow down. The steak cools a little bit. So all those juices, they're in the bite So this steak has rested for five minutes. Time to slice it open. Look at that cook. I like to use a coarse salt for this because it adds some crunch. It's not gonna dissolve right away. And that bit of texture is awesome. This is so good. It's juicy. It's tender. It's got great flavor. Pops of salt are wonderful. This is all I want in a steak. You can see why this It's quick, just as quick You get that great sear And you nail the temperature, which is what sous vide and but no special equipment, no mess. We've modified this for pork chops that are perfectly brown and nicely cooked, super juicy. You can can even use it to make really great salmon It's a great method. It is my go-to. Now just one more bite. I kind of like my steak sliced super thin. They're just extra tender that way. Mm. (upbeat music) So how do you cook your steaks? Are you a traditionalist? Have I convinced you to give Let me know in the comments and be sure to head over to check out some other techniques.