We've been debating the question forever. Is there such a thing as free will? Am I captain of my ship? Master of my own destiny? I'm no philosopher. Biology is my realm there is clearly more I'm referring to the fact that half the cells in your body They belong to bacteria, protozoa, fungi and other unicellular creatures. These tiny tenants, collectively are most abundant in the gut, where they aid in digestion and carry out many other Most amazing, they &quot;talk&quot; to your brain. They influence your mood, your energy level, your appetite, your memory, perhaps even your personality. I can say this with confidence owing to mice like this, They've been dubbed bubble mice because they're raised Contrast their behavior which is colonized at birth with microbes, and you'll notice striking differences. A normal mouse is a quick Show it a novel object, and it will circle and sniff it Place it in a maze and it's keen and remembers where it's been. A bubble mouse could not It lacks natural curiosity. It's slow to learn, quick to forget, and just as inclined to favor the familiar over what's new, exciting, or different. Indeed, they don't even protest if separated at a young age a trauma that in a normal mouse But if you colonize with the normal microbiota guess what happens? Their behavior normalizes. We're not mice. So does any of this apply to us? Actually a mountain of evidence Consider this. If I transfer gut bacteria the animals fatten up. Transfer gut bacteria feed them the same rat chow Similarly, if I transfer gut bacteria to a bubble mouse, the animal will display For example, if placed in a water tank, it stops swimming sooner than a mouse from a non-depressed person. That mouse will keep trying to escape. It's not so quick to give in to despair. How in the world can gut bacteria They have many techniques, actually. But here's one of their coolest. Gut bacteria produce hoards including half a dozen neurotransmitters. Put simply, gut bacteria can talk meaning our microbes and human cells, all speak the same language. In fact, some scientists think this language was actually I should point out that this is facilitated by a major nerve cable It's called the vagus nerve, and it can be directly or by the psychoactive Incidentally, about 80 percent is going from the gut to the brain as had long been assumed. Of course, gut bacteria can also rely to transport their psychoactive And there's one other that gut bacteria signal the brain. And that's by misbehaving. When aggressive bacteria immune cells rush to the scene and surprising scientists, those immune cells and related compounds but can travel to the brain where they trigger For reasons that are not well understood, inflammation and depression They're a destructive duo. Interestingly, a rapidly advancing is called vagus nerve stimulation, or VNS. As its name suggests, it entails electrically via an electrode implanted in the chest. Although this therapy evolved some scientists think that the current may actually mimic on the nerve. That's speculative, but what is clear preventing pathogenic bacteria and causing an inflammatory response Encouragingly, the FDA for the treatment of severe epilepsy and depression unresponsive What's more, early clinical trials suggest the procedure may also benefit people In parallel with these developments, microbiota researchers are attempting by changing the composition or alternatively, by boosting or blocking the action To that end, they're making exciting progress in pinpointing exactly which bacteria in various neuropsychiatric conditions. People with autism often have high amounts and in rodents, this molecule has been shown and even alter brain connectivity. Axial Therapeutics, a company at the forefront is now conducting designed to prevent from reaching the brain. The goal is to treat irritability Meanwhile, a bacterium found in yogurt has shown to promote social bonding Both good and bad bacteria to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or ALS. That's the neurodegenerative disease best known for paralyzing at the peak of his career. Like him, most patients of being diagnosed with the disease. A small minority live ten years or longer. In animal models of ALS, Israeli researchers have recently that accelerate the disease and another that slows its development. They suspect the benefits are due to a vitamin that it produces, Microbiota researchers are making in unraveling the root causes If you know the actor Michael J. Fox, if you've seen many of his videos, you'll know its symptoms are shaking, stiffness and an unsteady gait. It's long been known that the disease called alpha-synuclein As the misfolding spreads, symptoms worsen. The big mystery is, the Parkinson's protein, to misfolded in the first place. Several labs have recently converged The guts of some people, harbor a strain of E. coli that churns out a misfolded compound And when misfolded variants are injected into the guts it causes the normal protein to misfold in turn. Like falling dominoes, this wave of misfolding proteins and in about two months, you see clumped up protein that degenerates in Parkinson's patients. Most importantly, these fresh glimpses are suggesting new ways a prospect, needless to say, Of course, it's early days. We don't yet know whether successful treatments will emerge or, for that matter, any of the other But I think you'll agree If nothing else, I hope I've convinced you not just from the top down, but quite literally from the bottom up. In short, the person Thank you. (Applause)