On a warm August day in 636 CE, the Arab army of the mighty Byzantine Empire. The two armies stared each other down across the vultures circled above. One Arab warrior stepped forward, crying out: sent upon you!" The battle that would change the course of After Prophet Muhammad's death in 632, the First Caliph Abu Bakr coordinated military campaigns, over vast territories of Arabia, turning the peninsula This expansion was spearheaded by battle-hardened most notably Khalid ibn al-Walid. the most dependable commander for the Prophet and his successors. The Caliph's goal to bring all Arab tribal in the steppes and cities of Iraq and Syria, led to the first direct clashes with the Byzantines and Sassanians. The two empires had been at war with each exhausted the two super-powers. The Byzantines formally restored control over political and economic strife across their authority wasn't yet fully re-established Foreign policy changed as well. The Empire stopped subsidizing many tribal this financial expenditure was no longer needed now that the war against the Sassanians was won. Instead, they began building defensive coalitions Syria from the southeast, extending their threatening the Muslims who sought to unite Hence it was imperative for Abu Bakr to assert before the Byzantines could make headway in In early 633, four Arab armies entered Byzantine ibn Hasana, Yazid ibn Abi Sufyan, and Abu They were ordered not to attack, besiege or The objective of this initial phase of the predominantly by the Arabic-speaking population, thus swelling Rashidun ranks and providing These early operations laid the groundwork Abu Bakr's focus on the countryside would as mere raiders, and therefore no significant threat in early 633. Meanwhile in the east, Caliph's orders were into the fold. From the south Abu Bakr dispatched Khalid, As the army assembled, the core of Khalid's troops from several tribes across Arabia. Some of these tribes fought against Medina loyal, and it was these troops that now reinforced What followed was one of Khalid's greatest The swift conquest of Sassanian lands west would be a display of true tactical genius. With his versatile implementation of the Indirect Approach, Khalid would attack opposing armies from unexpected directions with multiple rapid flanking maneuvers. Furthermore, he was one of only a few commanders in history who used Double Envelopment to encircle and destroy armies larger than his own, launching perfectly timed cavalry attacks on the opponents flanks. This daring war of movement reflected his of the Euphrates. Then, as he laid the groundwork for Rashidun central Iraq and the Sassanian capital, a was to urgently march to Syria to take command In April 634 he departed Iraq with a small was absolute, striking out across the desert The troops couldn't carry enough water to twenty of the camels to drink large quantities spoil it by eating or chewing their cud. Camels would then be slaughtered daily and quench the thirst of the troops. The march through largely waterless country most famous military feats. Upon entering Syria he moved south-west to capturing forts and towns along the way. Byzantine garrisons were caught completely could enter their territory from an inhospitable So far the Empire relied on a system of forts about enemy troop movements to the interior, and respond to the threat. The prevailing mindset was that any attack be repulsed, thus any loss of territory would But by now the Muslims gained full control Khalid's arrival the Caliph turned his full Bostra fell first, and the four Muslim armies al-As, who was facing a large concentration of Byzantine troops commanded by Emperor Heraclius' brother Theodore. The Byzantines reportedly recruited Bedouin-Christian of the Muslim army, managing to position themselves The Battle of Ajnadayn, the first major engagement, Many prominent Muslims fell as martyrs on leadership the Arabs managed to wipe out the and were now advancing north. Theodore retreated to join the emperor at fled in disorder to nearby walled cities and on Pella, joining the garrison that was stationed Alarmed by Khalid's rapid advance, Heraclius roads south of Damascus, to give the city coming, and then subsequently headed for Antioch to begin preparations to deal with the Arab threat. But the Byzantines were not able to hold Khalid's their entrenched positions and proceeded to The siege lasted for 20 days and, after a But then came news from Medina that Caliph Umar ibn al-Khattab, Khalid's cousin, his Aware of Khalid's popularity, the deeply Ubayda in charge of the Muslim army, aiming it is Allah alone who gives victory on the Under the command of the more cautious Abu slower pace over the coming months. He divided the army in two, advancing north two armies to capture Palestine, where several rear during the initial rapid Muslim advance. Meanwhile in Antioch, Heraclius wasn't sitting He displayed the military might of the Byzantine their march back into Syria from multiple an Armenian general. Furthermore, Heraclius sent word to all major superiority after recent victories against The message was clear - that Syria belonged of Byzantine rule and the current situation, while alarming, was a setback that will be dealt with. Heraclius' army was prepared to defeat the separate armies piece meal. Upon learning of the initial movement of enemy the Muslim position in the north will be surrounded He urged Abu Ubayda to abandon northern Syria the rest of their forces could join them. After some consideration, Abu Ubayda ordered Messengers were sent to the two commanders the vast plains north-east of Lake Tiberias, and were conducive to cavalry maneuvers. And, just as Khalid had suspected, four Imperial pinned the Arabs in the north, while another and cut off their line of retreat - the Meanwhile, Yazdegerd negotiated with Heraclius However, the Sassanian army would not be ready Back west, faced against a massive Byzantine to send all available reinforcements to Syria. And, as the Muslim armies met, scouts reported that a strong Byzantine garrison gathered at Caesarea. This made encamping on the plains near Lake army could now potentially be attacked on Abu Ubayda again heeded Khalid's advice the eastern end of the Yarmouk plateau. With the battle looming, Khalid was recognized temporary control of the troops, while Abu And the Byzantine army followed close behind... Terrain would have a major impact on the course The Yarmouk plateau is predominantly an undulated Rivers Yarmuk, Ruqqad, 'Allan and Harir deep gorges with steep cliffs. The grassy plain offered enough fodder and And the Byzantines were not in a rush. Vahan was instructed by the emperor to try or at the very least to stall negotiations Jabalah and Gregory did much of the mediation, but as the talks dragged on for up to three months, reinforcements sent by Umar began Concerned that he might lose the numerical hands and asked to negotiate with Khalid in By his own words, the Armenian general regarded hungry, wretched Bedouins&quot; and he offered Unimpressed by Vahan's condescendence, Khalid us here...", calling on the Christian general &quot;If you refuse there can only be war between as you love life&quot;. Enraged, Vahan fired a warning: "Better Negotiations were over... Vahan positioned the main Byzantine camp near roads connecting Egypt and Syria could be He anchored his battle line to the gorge in 'Allan river, stretching to the town of On his left flank he placed the Slavic infantry, In the center, Jabalah commanded the Ghassanid Gregory commanded the experienced Greek infantry It is said that the last Roman legion, the Archers were mixed with the infantry. Cavalry contingents were supporting each of Byzantine army numbered around 40,000. Across the field, Khalid stretched his infantry with the left flank anchored on the gorge the vicinity of the town of Nawa. He placed Amr in charge of the right flank, Yazid on the left, with archers mixed in with Cavalry contingents were positioned to prevent the handpicked cavalry reserve. Arab army was around 25,000 strong. The long battle line, stretching around 10km of commanders on both sides. Early on August 15th, the two armies stared One Arab warrior came forward, dropped his "I am the death of the Pale faces, I am upon you, I am Zarrar Ibn al-Azwar!" Several Byzantine officers challenged the In a matter of minutes Zarrar cut them down More Muslim champions stepped forward, and troops witnessed the slaying of many of their Then, at noon, Vahan ordered the army to advance. Using his numerical advantage to extend the thin, and he planned to probe the Muslim line As the Byzantine army closed the distance, Vahan ordered a third of his infantry to advance on the enemy. The fighting was not too intensive, as both Nevertheless, Vahan was surprised by the determination He observed that the deep gorge to the south some protection to the Muslim left flank, the Muslim right exposed. Khalid was also aware of this problem and right wing so that he could reinforce it quickly, As the day began drawing to a close, Vahan back into position on the 'Allan river. During the night both commanders contemplated Khalid knew that a frontal assault against would be dangerous, especially when supported Vahan, meanwhile, was ready to attack and Early next morning, the Byzantine commander He intended to catch the Muslims unprepared But Khalid expected this. During the previous night he ordered the construction of outposts in front of his line to prevent any surprise attacks. Despite losing the element of surprise, Vahan The Byzantine commander planned to apply steady to tie down as many of Khalid's troops as his attack on the flanks where he expected field with his superior numbers. As the two armies clashed, Khalid's men stalled Byzantine advance. But for his troops on the flanks, the situation was different... Qanatir attacked Khalid's right flank in The outnumbered Muslim infantry held fast Amr ordered his cavalry to check the Byzantine The cavalry counterattack blunted the Byzantine back toward their camp. Women from the camp rallied, and some joined They hobbled the camels around the camp, thus A desperate struggle ensued as the Byzantines Qanatir's heavy cavalry bogged down as their refusing to respond to the commands of their In close quarters the legs and bellies of became exposed and many of the heavily armored Qanatir could not sustain the attack any longer... ... With Vahan's attack against the Muslim to exploit the gap that had opened up between He ordered Amr to send his cavalry regiment With incoming cavalry support Amr ordered The three-pronged attack forced Qanatir to towards the main Byzantine line. By timing his flanking maneuver to perfection with fewer troops. Had it not been for the disciplined retreat the Byzantine flank could've collapsed entirely. But the situation on the Muslim left was considerably ... With much of Khalid's mounted units was being overrun. Byzantine cavalry broke through the ranks Gregory's infantry slowly ground their way could not stop them. As they fell back to the camp, Yazid's troops thrown at them by the ferocious Arab women them, with some of the women taking part in Yazid was finally able to stabilize his line temporarily stemming the Byzantine assault. Just as Vahan's plan appeared to be showed his ability to adapt quickly. With the right flank stabilized he dashed He detached a cavalry contingent under the to round the Byzantine center. This decision proved crucial, for when Dharar he fixed them in place, preventing reinforcements against the Muslim left. But most importantly this maneuver gave the outflanked, damaging their morale. Further on the left flank Khalid came to Yazid's The Greeks gave ground under pressure, suffering During the fighting in the center, Dharar's who fought with his troops in the front. Finally, as dusk approached the two exhausted For Vahan, losing one of his key lieutenants counterattacks exposed weaknesses in his plan, The battle resumed with the Byzantines again This time, however, Vahan focused mainly on heavy cavalry could do more damage. Bitter fighting ensued as the Byzantine heavy cavalry charge outmatched Arab light mounted units. Amr's division fell back, followed shortly As Jabalah's flank slowly became exposed, moment, charging into the gap towards the Finally, Amr managed to rally his forces and Shurahbil too reorganized after taking some The fighting developed into a bloodbath as and retreated in disarray. Seeing Jabalah disengaging, Qanatir too withdrew Khalid's well timed flanking attack again The next day, Vahan persisted with the same Qanatir lead the Slavs against Amr's division. Jabalah's Ghassanid division, now reinforced As soon as they met the Byzantine charge, Arab light cavalry was especially having trouble Meanwhile, Vahan ordered the Armenians and Khalid now feared a general Byzantine assault He understood that, considering the losses numbers to repulse a general advance by Imperial be able to reinforce both flanks at the same To avert disaster, Khalid sent Abu Ubayda advance and buy some time for his troops on He then hastily rushed towards the gaps that lines started buckling under the weight of Meanwhile, the Muslim left held the initial with horse archers, subjecting the Arabs to The point-blank volleys caused such losses that the incident became known as the "Day Unable to withstand the storm of arrows, the of Byzantine archers. On the other side of the battlefield Amr rallied while Khalid shored up Shurahbil's ranks The Ghassanids fought stubbornly, but having Now that he was committed on the right, Khalid's the general advance of his division, sensing took from Byzantine arrow volleys. Sure enough, Yazid's battered division gave with Abu Ubayda barely holding Vahan's Armenians. With the Rashidun left in dire straits, Arab joined the fighting. The desperate last stand of the women inspired the Muslims to hold their ground against all odds. Meanwhile on the right, the Byzantines finally and the rest of Vahan's line soon followed. The fourth day of the battle was devastating But incredibly they managed to hold back the Next morning, Vahan unexpectedly sent an emissary, Arab commanders met for an impromptu war council. Some argued to accept the truce, seeing it army deep within enemy territory, while others vastly outnumbered. The consensus was to leave and come back to fight another day. Khalid listened to his comrades, then stood &quot;Now is not the time to concede, now is the He argued that the strategy was to be on the defensive, wear out the enemy, then counter attack. And now he sensed that the Byzantines lost to raise morale of his troops. The time to attack is now! There would be During the night Khalid inspected the troops. Wounded soldiers leaned on each other, but their spirit never wavered. Determined to go on the offensive, the Muslim wide flanking maneuver to capture a key bridge main line of communication between the Byzantine The fightback has begun... As the sun rose on the next day, from the on his war horse into the no man's land. It was Gregory, the commander of the Byzantine Abu Ubayda answered the challenge. As the overall strategic commander of Arab &quot;If I don't return you shall resume command decides otherwise&quot;. And with that the tall, slim figure of Abu rode out to meet Gregory. The two met in the middle, both excellent Circling each other they traded blows for Then Gregory ran back towards his line - a into lowering his guard. As the Arab general caught up with him, in Ubayda ducked to evade the blow, striking Gregory dropped his sword and slumped from Moments later Khalid ordered the Muslim line Having spent most of the night reorganizing behind the infantry divisions, spreading their like the disposition of the Arab army remained and he took all of the remaining cavalry, Some of the men in the Byzantine line could the Muslim army went on the offensive. As the clash in the center erupted, the Arabs They were determined to drive the enemy back, meant that they could not sustain this battle Just as Vahan's troops managed to slow the momentum of the Muslim advance, Khalid sprung his trap. From the gentle dips in the terrain 8,000 By amassing most of his cavalry Khalid planned Knowing that time was of the essence he urged his men to ride fast and without hesitation. Speed would decide the outcome of the Busy with commanding the troops in the center, cloud of dust. He scrambled to send his cavalry to cover has outwitted him. In full gallop Khalid surged past Amr's division and began to envelop Qanatir's Slavs. The rest of Arab riders followed their general Over his left shoulder Khalid could see the his steed to go faster. Qanatir's and Jabalah's line began folding, As the Muslim riders smashed into Vahan's his lance in two. He drew his sword, striking anyone in a red The horses twisted and turned, wreaking havoc Jabalah and the Ghassanids disengaged and But to their horror they realized that the route, was blocked. Jabalah's troops dispersed as each man tried Qanatir fought on bravely, but the Slavic The entire Byzantine line began collapsing. Shocked by Khalid's rapid maneuver, the Imperial heavy cavalry tried in vain to stem the tide. The noose was tightening as Vahan's army The Armenian general barked orders, and while some Byzantine units kept their cohesion, others were in total Unable to cope with the rapid movement of were attacked on all sides. Seeing that the situation was hopeless they fled, abandoning the infantry to their fate. Khalid steadied his steed, closed his eyes Though it was not immediately apparent, he Vahan's army was cornered against the steep over the next several hours Byzantine troops Such was their desperation that hundreds, to their deaths from the cliffs to escape On that day the Rashidun army achieved a victory The Battle of Yarmouk was certainly the battle battles in world history. The juggernaut that was the Byzantine army thought they can easily outmatch the Arabic Unfortunately for them, in Khalid ibn al-Walid mind of the age. In just a few short years he restructured would conquer half of the known world. On August 20th 636, at Yarmouk, after six grueling days Islam stepped onto the