Imagine NASA announced today Bacteria on Mars, weird alien fish and also ancient alien ruins on Titan. Wouldn't that be great? Well, no. It would be horrible news, devastating even. It could mean that the end of humanity and that it might be coming soon. Why? Why would the most exciting be bad? Let us imagine the development of life, from its inception to us today, as a flight of stairs. The first step is dead chemistry into self-replicating patterns, but also able to change and evolve. The second step is for our early life to able to build more complicated structures, and use the available energy On the next step, these cells combine enabling unbelievable variety The step above sees the species enabling the use of tools, culture which creates even higher complexity. The species can now become the and change it according to its needs. First shy attempts to leave its This is where we are now. It's in the nature of life as we know it to reach out, to cover every And since planets have a limited if a species wants to survive, it will look for more places So the steps above the current colonize your own solar system, then spread further to reach to the possible final step: It's very likely that this is a universal no matter where they're from. If a species is competitive and driven they'll probably not stop there. We know that there are up to 500 billion at least 10 billion Earth-like planets. Many have been around billions But we're observing zero We should be able to see something... ...but there's nothing. Space seems This means something is preventing living beyond the step we're on right now. ...Something that makes becoming extremely hard, maybe impossible. This is the Great Filter. ...A challenge or danger so that it eliminates almost every There are two scenarios: One means we are incredibly the other one means we are doomed It depends on where the filter behind, or ahead of us? Scenario 1: Scenario 1: We are the first. If the filter is behind us, that means that one of the steps we passed is almost impossible to take. Which step could it be? Is life ITSELF extremely rare? It's very hard to make predictions for life to emerge from dead things. There is no consensus. Some scientists think it develops everywhere others think that Earth might ONLY living place in the universe. Another candidate is the step A very specific thing happened and as far as we know, it happened A primitive hunter cell but instead of devouring it, The bigger cell provided shelter, took care of interacting with the while the smaller one used its to focus on providing a lot of extra With the abundant energy, the host cell and build new and expensive things while the guest became the These cells make up every Maybe there are billions of bacteria-covered planets in the Milky Way, but not a single one, apart from us, has achieved our level of complexity. ...or intelligence. We humans feel very smart and with our crossword puzzles and romantic novels. But a big brain, is first and foremost, a very expensive evolutionary investment. They are fragile, they don't help in a fistfight with a bear, they cost enormous amounts of energy, and despite them, it took modern humans, 200,000 years to get from sharp sticks Being smart does not mean you get Maybe intelligence is just not so great, and we're lucky that it worked out for us. Scenario 2: Scenario 2: Plenty of others died already. A Great Filter before us is orders of magnitude more dangerous than anything we encountered so far. Even if a major disaster killed most of us or threw us back thousands of years, we would survive and recover. And if we can recover, even if it takes a million years, then it's not a Great Filter, but just a roadblock to an eventual galactic civilization. On universal timescales, even millions of years are just the blink of an eye. If a Great Filter really lies before us, it has to be so dangerous, so purely devastating and powerful, that it has destroyed most, if not all, advanced civilizations in our galaxy over billions of years. A really daunting and depressing hypothesis is that once a species takes control over its planet, it's already on the path to self-destruction. Technology is a good way to achieve that. It needs to be something that's so obvious, that virtually everybody discovers it, and so dangerous, that its discovery leads almost universally to an existential disaster. A large-scale nuclear war, nanotechnology that gets out of control, genetic engineering of the perfect super bug, an experiment that lights the whole atmosphere on fire. It might be a super-intelligent AI that accidentally (or purposely) destroys its creators. Or things that we can't even see coming right now. Or it's way simpler: species competitive enough to take over their planet necessarily destroy it while competing with each other for resources. Maybe there are runaway chain reactions in every ecosystem that once set in motion, are not fixable. And so once a civilization is powerful enough to change the composition of its atmosphere, they make their planet uninhabitable 100% of the time. Let's hope that that's not the case. If the filter IS ahead of us, our odds are really bad. What we can hope for. THIS is why finding life beyond Earth would be horrible. The more common life is in the universe, and the more advanced and complex it is, the more likely it becomes that a filter is in front of us. Bacteria would be bad, small animals would be worse, intelligent life would be alarming. Ruins of ancient alien civilizations... would be horrible. The best case scenario for us right now is that Mars is sterile, that Europa's oceans are devoid of life, and the vast arms of the Milky Way harbor only empty oceans hugging dead continents. ...That there are billions of empty planets waiting to be discovered and to be filled up with life. Billions of new homes... waiting for us... to finally arrive.