- Has this ever happened to you? Your daddy buys you a and suddenly your data is corrupted? I hate that. Unfortunately, these SSD scams so we need to talk about them. Sponsored by Linode, Cloud (upbeat music) Hey guys, how are you all doing? If you're new here, welcome, and we need to revisit these SSD scams, especially this 30-terabyte model I found on Walmart's website for $39. But first I need to the last SSD company I was Back in June I released an 8-terabyte solid-state Check out that episode if you haven't seen it yet, it's great. After making that episode, I wanted to try and a couple to elaborate on and I made so I wanna stick to it but because I accidentally so I couldn't test it further. Yeah, everything was kind and I was a little aggressive while trying to extract those guts. And long story short, So I went back to the at the lowest capacity, and 20 freaking days later, I finally get a shipping notification but another month goes So I emailed them, and they gave me a discount code. Yeah, Anna, I'm sure you're very sorry, if that's your real name. Nothing happens for six more weeks. So now we're in September. So I emailed them again, and to this day I still So I checked their website and what a surprise, they vanished. So the odds of me getting are slim to none but I wanted so I needed to look around was similar but maybe still Thankfully, I found this insane SSD on a website called The site claims a 30-terabyte of 1050 and 1000 megabytes Are those speeds even possible in reality? Absolutely, thanks to you can transfer data to and from them really fast and they're very compact. But is that the case with this product? Let's keep looking, I but thanks to many viewer submissions, I found the same product on So that's where I bought it It did take a couple weeks though. So before we open this thing up and look at it physically, I'd like to discuss, the price. As of late 2022 an eight-terabyte M.2 SSD would cost at least $1,000. So a 30-terabyte product for Heck, even the previous scammers were charging $90 for eight terabytes. So multiply that to 30 terabytes and $40 still seems insanely low. My advice is always check the on other websites because between two products, that's a red flag. That usually means the or maybe it's just a If you can avoid websites like Walmart and Amazon when you're I'm not saying don't but when you're doing with those websites because on there, and that's exactly Now, just to cover my butt here, I need to say this is not Walmart did not make this However, Walmart should these listings so people With that said, let's look The product's design is similar to Samsung's T5 and T7 SSDs. The scammers likely did with a nearly identical product. When I first unboxed the fake SSD, I immediately felt how to a real external SSD and that tells me there's not much happening But we will crack it open The SSD has a blue status and it comes with a USB-C to A cable. The box advertises USB 3.1 speeds, which I highly doubt but And it has a sticker reading &quot;30T&quot;, probably meaning 30 terabytes. are the system requirements Oddly enough, it supports and iOS but not macOS, well, that's weird. The LondonComfy SSD worked on macOS. Don't know why this wouldn't, And the side says high speed, which I highly doubt, easy carry. Yeah, that's probably the only true thing. No time like the present. Let's plug this in and see how it works. The first real test is the capacity. I'm using a program called h2testw to assess the true capacity of this SSD. Due to the drive's slow speed and fake massive storage capacity, the first half of this process could take over 600 hours. Because you and me have a life, I'm not gonna subject you So I'm gonna stop the test early at about 300 gigabytes because than what the true The program wrote over 30 and the verification process and the final results scanned only 116.3 Let's see how that translates To further test the capacity, I erased the test files and transferred about 180 gigabytes of video files to the SSD. Simultaneously, Windows reported the transfer speed of the drive. It rarely exceeded 18 which is nowhere near the true 625 megabytes per second theoretically. And later in the transfer, to about 13 megabytes per second. That was probably the point And now this cheap controller of data while riding new blocks of data which can slow down an SSD's performance. Better controllers handle that better but cheaper controllers can So that's maybe what happened. I'm open to your theories though, anyway, after the transfer, all of the but only 23 of the 48 files The rest were corrupted, So with these two tests, the storage inside this drive is not 30 terabytes but in fact 128 gigabytes. And for the record, I did For some reason, this drive I tried multiple methods in Disk Utility to format the drive and all failed. However, I used the system information app to get some additional info. The product name identifies as Disk 3.1, probably referring to the And the vendor ID is Integrated Technology Express Incorporated with And I love this part, the is actually 480 megabits per not even close to USB 3.1 gen one speed, which is five gigabits per second. So before we crack this thing open and see what's really on the inside, let's talk about how this thing The flash storage chips on an SSD's board need a and communicate with the This brain is a controller which is generally a separate The controller uses a Firmware is a type of software that's programmed directly into hardware. However, this firmware can be programmed in a misleading way. So the controller tells the And earlier I transferred onto what's actually a 128 gigabyte drive. So 180 can't fit into 128. What happened to all of that extra data? When the first 128 gigabytes of data are successfully transferred to the drive, the data is written to the storage medium and the file system's file with the locations of this data. Much like how we read an index the computer reads the file to find corresponding data on that drive. Now, without truly of the programming inside I can't say with 100% but this is likely the scenario. When you fill up a normal drive, you get a warning saying But that's not the case with this drive because again, it's lying to the computer. When the scammy controller the old bytes are erasing the previous data But the old entries in the file allocation table are untouched. So the computer and the user but when the user opens a data corruption error because the actual required data no longer So that's how this scam product and ultimately the user, it's a good time to remind Remember, two is one and one is none. So now let's cut this thing There's no screws on this with the LondonComfy drive, so we're gonna have to Oh yeah, Krazy Karl is coming back. We'll start with this handy dandy RotoZip and oh (bleep)... what You broke Crazy Carl's favorite tool and you'll pay for this. Okay, so instead, Karl cut with the razor blade and a The plastic tray slid out. Inside the tray is a single the status LED, some capacitors, and a single microSD card and reader. Typically SSDs have soldered to the board a microSD card probably The controller is a Chipsbank CBM2199S. When looking this up on and device details match in the macOS system there's an open space on the board so we can install Team Fortress 2. (Brassy Team Fortress 2 theme music!) But it looks like there is space to solder another microSD card reader. We saw this in the LondonComfy episode. So now that we have let's plug it into some... And plug it into a computer it is when it's not I plugged the card into my The system said we need to and I don't wanna do that the card and that will screw So for now, I hit Cancel the volume does not contain I tried the same thing in the disk you attached was For fun, I checked the and it confirms my theory a 128-gigabyte microSD I wanted to see if I could I transferred earlier, so I installed Prosoft's Data Rescue application and deep scanned the card So let's recover them (suspenseful music) Look at that. It worked. Data Rescue successfully The file names were wiped out but other metadata was still intact. So with that test complete, it's now safe to format this card and we'll see how fast I clicked the Format button and To test the speed I Complete with Otaku themes! and the write speed clocked in at 78 megabytes per second with In addition, I transferred again and the speed was about Man, this is just sad, the into a computer performs than when it's inside So Walmart, I think you need but I know a company the real storage and speed If you have an application or website that you need to scale the infrastructure and Linode offers out-of-box apps for game servers like TF2, You can run your own with open VPN, build an online application with Joomla's content a video streaming site with There's so much you can do with Linode's affordable Linux virtual they offer award-winning To put it simply, if it runs Visit linode.com/computerclan of the signup buttons and we'll give you a 60 day $100 credit just And when you do that, you're also supporting the Computer Clan. So thank you very much. So be wary of these fake SSDs and be wary of those Don't forget about those. And man, I thought fake What's next? Fake flashlights? Oh, you gotta be kidding me. (upbeat music) - [Mamma Ken] Ken, did you - No, mom, a cheap SSD ate my homework.