[Music] did I finally find the perfect or almost I want to make it clear this is not a sponsored every capo I'm going to talk about. you can see avoid wasting your money. as I like to say, &quot;I make watched my channel for a while, you know I've been me switch fret positions without having to retune. having to retune. so I'm talking about a capo strings right? if I can play an A barre chord at find a capo to put at the fifth fret and play an mean, this isn't a big deal if I'm playing at home put on the capo and retune to make sure everything such a time-waster and buzzkill to retune every so what is the solution? is there even one? stick all right, capos, capos, capos. why do they even they are not a cheater's tool. I mean many of the going to do a whole video about when and how to often use one just to raise the key of a song to Cosmic Spin, for my partner Bara's vocal range. to blend one uncapo'ed guitar with another and that gives me this cool ear-catching blend. together [Music] still other times, I just like when George Harrison put a capo way up [Music] I just did a tribute to a friend who passed away so obviously capos are useful, but why am I most capos that frustrates me? let's start with to press the fretboard pad into the strings and so a spring with constant tension is going to put up the neck. because that's where the neck gets here and they get thicker as you get up toward strings are going to pull sharp because of that when I say a lot of capos have springs, I mean Nashville capo. this is also about 25. the Glider the high-end there are Thalia capos. big fancy the spring tension isn't adjustable on any of specific guitars. again they'll likely be fine if positions. next there are screw-based capos. these least amount of pressure that will press down the is D'Addario's Tri-Action capo. it has this for about 23 bucks, this is pretty good. it's a spring which does help. there are standard Shubb a screw mechanism. you dial it in and then you involved because you have to do trial and error of necessary pressure. and that amount is going lot of Bluegrass players like the Shubb Fine-Tune cheap. this is a cradle-style capo. it pushes eliminates guesswork. because you snap it on. you Capo in place. you can strum across the strings clean right? the minimum pressure until every note about necks is that neck width often tapers up toward the bridge. just be aware that a cradle fit the higher frets of a wider neck. Paige makes then they have this fancy PC6 ETI that frets each it for me. Taylor now makes cradle-style capos these adjustable screw-based models, having a dial how much or little tension you need to eliminate strings, I find they generally pull strings out of spring-loaded capos have to have a fairly right then there's the radius problem. another which is front to back, right, and width, side is the curvature of the fretboard from side a circle. I'll do it this way. so a fretboard can to what they call a 7-inch radius, where if it would create a 14-inch circle. that's 2 times but it's common on vintage Fender necks. now they're usually shaped to approximate some generic may not match your guitar right? think about this: capo is going to put extra pressure on the outer your fretboard radius, if the fretboard radius the middle strings and maybe not enough on buzz. so you know trying to solve this radius tried to solve it by including a whole set of 14 here's the capo on the outer piece. there's a full pads. okay basically seven of those, and then so 14 pads to try to solve the problems created remember, Thalia capos have a fixed spring tension you're going to need to use their thick neck is super thick you might actually be out of to me with this 1965 Harmony Rocket. I invested right? but because the Rocket has a thick baseball this. I mean, pulls the strings way out of tune. kind of heinous. obviously at this point in capo collector right? I've gotten into the habit I find the style and brand that works best accumulated so many capos and quite a few I finding one capo that works for any guitar could this possibly be it? this is it looks innocent enough right? it's simple and the pressure, and the spring actually works it actually holds it open right, until you and you don't have to guess where to place it left it up against this curve here. right up to there. a lot better. now they have the audacity to claim classical, and 12-string guitars. in other words, other capos and brands, but there is one thing to the one and only Ned Steinberger. now Ned is basses and guitars you saw everywhere back in Steinberg was originally a furniture designer, and player's problem: neck dive right? normally dives. not with a headless bass. now in the case solves this problem of inconsistent pressure innocuous looking pad a FlexFit fretboard pad. &quot;thanks to our revolutionary FlexFit technology, Plus capo mimics the way the anatomy of the human never have to worry about unwanted buzzing, varying capo pressure. With minimal overall and in tune.&quot; is that really possible? cuz it's D'Addario website also says the pad &quot;has dual rubber and a harder durometer shell&quot; (whatever and neck radius mimicking the biological what's the bottom line? are they telling the I'm going to test this on my six most challenging dial in a buzz-free capo tone, and then how out notoriously difficult 1st fret, or the typically 7th fret. all right I want to start with acoustic right and it has a thin standard-width uh usually pretty easy to capo [Music] there it minimal pressure right? a little clean. let's go up to the 3rd fret. [Music] [Music] not too bad. let's pop it all the way up to the 7th very close [Music] I can certainly live with that. you can hear on the G7th, it's putting all right next up, my 2002 Martin HD-40. this is and it also has a v-shaped neck. now I normally know 75-80 bucks. let's see how the price. here it is open [Music] all right close to perfect [Music] all right [Music] all right let's take that up to the on the meter it's basically right on. okay here's this has a very thick and very wide reach around this thing, and of course a to capo cleanly without using a ton of [Music] okay let's put that Capo at the holy [Music] cannoli okay that's pretty [Music] [Music] I can live with that. let's go all the way pretty close to the fret it works the best. not [Music] wow [Music] beautiful. totally livable. move on to electrics. 1968 Gibson SG this has very low action. it's actually the the Pro Plus to put pressure on, but because the um it may require, actually I find this one all right let's put a capo at the 1st all right move it up to 3rd and not perfect, but pretty good. okay all the here [Music] pretty good. let's compare that up here at the seventh fret is. it's just too much pressure. all right, what about the thickest neck I own? this see what happens capo one, it's about as good as it was open, all right up to the three, not perfect but all right. up at [Music] 7th. just for grins, let's compare what happens those low strings are way up. crazy, just too much pressure. all we have to test an electric 12-string my Nashville-made Jerry Jones Neptune 12. has see if it pulls out of tune at the sides from the [Music] all right I'm amazed how little pressure tone pretty good all right capo [Music] 3 little it's a little high. let's see what happens [Music] considering I didn't do any retuning, right, this little guy is a major Guitar Discovery six of these guitars as well as it does at any I'm just imagining how simple my life could be want a nearly universal capo, I do encourage now if you use the link in the description, I support this channel, and you're going to pay the gear and tips to make you better guitar player posted at GuitarDiscoveries.com. You're also and favorite bands like the Beatles, the Stones, like James Taylor, Cat Stevens, Paul Simon,