Today, we're going to learn the best way to Affinity Photo. If you'd like to follow along with me, I've left a download link for the photo I'll be Just by looking at this photo, we can see that it has a blue color cast. We know that we'll need to remove blue from we know how much blue to remove? And do any other colors need to be removed? Should any colors be added? It can be really tricky to know which colors to change when doing color correction. Fortunately, the technique we'll learn in What we're going to do is match this woman's skin tone to a pre-made skin tone pallete. By using a skin tone pallete, we can make which will also color correct the rest of If that doesn't make sense right now, that's okay. Just stick with me, and it will all be clear The first thing we need to do is a get a sample of the woman's current skin color. To do this, we'll make a selection around By neutral, I mean we're not going to make skin, just the regular midtones of the skin. To do this, get out the Free Hand Selection Tool, and make sure your feathering is set Then click and drag to make a selection. Then duplicate that skin onto its own layer by pressing Command or Ctrl J. Then de-select by pressing Command or Ctrl Now we have a layer with a small patch of neutral skin. But even this neutral patch has color variation We want a single color to represent her skin colors in this duplicate layer. To do this, come to the Filters menu, then go to Blurs, and apply an Average Blur. By averaging all of the colors on our duplicate layer, we now we have one color to represent Next, we need to bring in a skin tone pallete, which will give us a variety of color corrected There's a lot of skin tone palletes on the tones in real life. I'll leave a link in the video description for the one I'll be using, but feel free to Once you've downloaded a skin tone pallete, come up to File, and then down to Place. Then select the skin tone pallete, and click Now comes the trickiest part of the whole process. We need to decide which one of the colors this woman's skin tone should be. This can take a little practice to get right, but after some trial and error, you'll get to use. For this example, I've already played around with a few of the skin tones, and I like the The next thing we need to do is find the exact color formula for our averaged skin tone, To do this, we'll use the Info panel. You can find the Info panel by coming up to The Info panel allows us to see the exact color formula that's being used to produce Right now though, the Info panel is showing us the RGB value for one color, and the CMYK We need both colors to be shown in the same to RGB. To do this, just press on this circle, and Now both sides are using RGB. Now we need to sample the color from the skin tone pallete, as well as our averaged skin To sample a color, click and drag on this color you want to sample. Then do the same with the other cross hair icon. Now we have the exact RGB values that are producing each one of our sampled colors. As you can see, the color from the skin tone pallete has a more red, less green, and a Our goal is to make it so the average skin tone in this photo matches the skin we selected To match their RGB values, we're going to You can apply a Curves adjustment from the adjustments icon, or you use the shortcut, layer so it's beneath the skin tone pallete's Then we're going to change the Curves from Master, to just the Red channel. We need to increase the Reds in our photo, but we also need to make sure we move the To do this, we'll use the Picker feature. To learn more about curves and the Picker, Photo in the video description. For now though, just press on Picker, and then click and drag on the average skin tone As we do so, we'll move our Curve up, adding we need. Try not to lift up your finger until you've perfectly matched the red value of each sampled If you do accidently lift up your finger though, Just click on the node we created, and then it up or down. Perfect! We've now matched the red value for each of Now we can move on to the Green channel. Once again, press on Picker, and then click and drag on the average skin tone. This time though, we'll need to decrease the Our Greens are now perfectly matched, but our photo looks worse than it did when we Don't worry though, because we're not done We still need to do the Blue channel. Just as before, press on Picker, and then click and drag on the average skin tone to Great! Now the RGB values for both our sampled colors Now we can exit out of Curves, and turn off adjustment is affecting the photo. And if you'd like to get rid of the cross hair icons, just press on these Arrows. Then you can exit the Info panel. Now we can turn Curves off to see our original picture, and here it is with the color-correcting-curves As you can see, this has made a huge improvement But don't feel like you have to stop here. All we've done is match the RGB value of a in our original photo. There's no rule saying this is the &quot;perfect Feel free to continue modifying your Curves adjustment, to improve the photo even more. Using the skin tone pallete is simply meant For example, I think I'll double click on the Curves adjustment to bring it back up, the photo a little bit. I'd say this photo has now been successfully color corrected! I know this technique might seem a little tricky right now, but really, it's easy to Let's quickly do one more example together, I've left a download link in the video description for the 2nd image we'll be working on. If you'd like, you can pause the video here own. Or if you're still feeling a little overwhelmed, the process. First, we need to sample a neutral part of her skin, using the Free Hand Selection Tool. Then duplicate the selection onto its own layer by pressing Command or Ctrl J. Then Now we'll average the skin tones in our duplicate layer by applying an Average Blur. Then we'll bring in our skin tone pallete. Now choose the skin tone that you think best matches what the woman's actual skin color I'm going to use the 5th sample from the bottom, Now we'll bring out the Info panel, so we can get the RGB values of the skin tone pallete, Remember to set both sides of the Info panel to RGB. Then place the cross hairs on each of the colors we want to sample. Now make a Curves adjustment layer, and place it underneath the skin tone pallete layer. Now we'll come to the Red channel, and use the Picker to match the red value of each Then we can move on to the Green and Blue channels. Now we can turn everything off, to see how our photo is looking. Once again, I think I'm going to brighten Now we can turn off the Curves adjustment to see the original photo... And here it is with our color correction applied. As you can see, this technique works incredibly correction. As a final tip for you, you may encounter times when you need to crush the Curve's spline panel. My recommendation is to never do this. It can often make the coloring in your photo Instead, use the arrow keys to nudge the node up until the spline is just barely above the Matching RGB values isn't worth crushing the Thanks for watching my friends, and I'll see you in the next Affinity Revolution tutorial!