Did everyone have a good two weeks? The weather these days is neither summer nor fall, but somewhere in between. I thought I'd be saying goodbye to summer by September, but that's not the case, but the year is getting shorter again, so I'm a bit sad about it. No matter how many times I put them in the cabinet, the medicine bottles end up on the table every day so I neatly put them in a basket and just leave them on the table to eat. How to make and eat bruschetta 1T balsamic vinegar, 2T olive oil, 1T oligosaccharide (or honey), a pinch of pepper and salt Bruschetta... the name is really difficult, so I just said to my husband, should I just eat as tomato balsamic sauce on top of the baguette? That's how I do. This is coffee my cousin bought me as a gift from Canada. It's delicious even when mixed with water, and it's so smooth and delicious when mixed with milk! I want to eat it with a stylish white foam, but since I'm not a barista... Today, it's not just a baguette, it's a commercially available garlic baguette. With the title of "mom and housewife," I do many things a day, including raising children, housekeeping, cooking, and YouTube, but it doesn't seem easy to do any of them well. I usually hand wash t-shirts and knitwear for going out. No matter how low I set the washing machine, I hated it because the neckline stretched. For clothes I want to keep and wear for a long time, when I have time I hand wash them and spin them in the washing machine. The moisture comes out, dries quickly, and the clothes don't stretch. There are clothes that really shrink when you put them in the dryer. Those clothes are dried at room temperature, but before that, if you put them in the dryer for 3 to 5 minutes and then take them out and hang them to dry, the clothes won't shrink and the wrinkles will go out, so there's no need to iron them later. After using it for nearly 5 years, it has lost its ability to stay firm. I think it's time to change the toy box without hesitation. This time, I bought the one with a front view, and I like it more than I expected. These days, when I'm putting away the toys, the thought that comes to mind is that when I was young, we used to play with rubber bands... It reminds me of the times when my friends and I would play in front of the house right after school... Haha My child likes it because he can see what's inside and it's easier to find. I store side dish containers in a narrow cabinet next to the refrigerator. As it was stacked all the way to the back space, it was very inconvenient to take out the containers in the back. I moved the trays to another place and emptied one drawer. I'm planning to install an all-purpose tension rod and store only the Vakuen boxes here. You can save a lot of space by removing the lid and storing it. If you store only the lids between the compression rods, it takes up less space and doesn't fall over. Also, it is convenient to use if you store containers of the same size by stacking them on top of each other. Since the space is spacious, you can also fit large stainless steel bowls. Thanks to this, the bottom two spaces were left, so I moved the new seasoning containers from the pantry. I was already worried that my pantry was too small, but I think I can divide it up and store it! A busy olive tree that follows wherever there is sunlight If you move around all day, you feel hungry and lose energy. Now, I guess my body isn't like it used to be in my 20s. If I take a break and drink something sweet, even if it's just for a little while, I can recharge my energy quickly. These days, I'm trying to stick to the rule of taking one walk a day. I see a ton of perilla leaves on the lake path in front of my house, and I miss my niece, so when my sister calls me to come out for a walk, I'm quick to just slather on sunscreen and heading out. If the coating peels off or cracks in wooden cookware after long-term use, foreign substances can get caught in the gaps, which can lead to the growth of mold or bacteria. For spoons that cannot be resolved even with oiling, throw them away and replace them with new ones. When cleaning wooden cookware, use baking soda instead of detergent. Clean the area by gently rubbing it with baking soda completely dissolved in lukewarm water. Then, rinse it in vinegar water and wash it in lukewarm running water. That's it. To use it without deformation, you must wash it with lukewarm water, not hot water! Even if it's a little annoying, let's use it healthily for a long time. I'm craving some hot soup for lunch using ingredients I have at home, so I'm going to make a super simple egg soup. (Add a pinch of salt) 2T tuna liquid per &quot;coin&quot; broth (If you don't have &quot;coin&quot; broth, you can just boil it with water.) When the water boils, pour the eggs in a circular motion, wait for about 15 seconds, and stir gently. Lastly, add green onion and pepper and boil for 2 more minutes to complete. One well-ripened young radish kimchi is enough to make a bowl of rice. My mom said this one day. It seems like mom's time has stopped in her 30s Her 30's...Mom's time has stopped right at my age now. There will come a time when we, too, look at the past and wander around, right? When you get there, the things you have to do now may not be that important. Rather than regretting big things, I think I will have more regrets about not being able to laugh and have fun more about small things. I hope we all have less regrets when we look back from the future Have a good weekend and smile and be happy for the coming week!